0 (2s):
Hello, friends. Welcome to the show. This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Squarespace. Squarespace is a place where you can make a website. If you need a website, you no longer have to hire anyone to do it. It's the place where my website was made. Go to joe rogan.com. That's a Squarespace website. Squarespace has got it dialed in. You don't have to know anything like normal stuff. Can you move a file around on your desktop? That's all you need to know. It's that simple. They've got it figured out. They have a simple, easy to use, drag and drop user interface and be t filled designer templates that will allow anyone to make a fantastic professional website.

0 (45s):
Each website comes with a free online store. So during these crazy times, if you're thinking about starting up a business, Squarespace is your Huckleberry. They got powerful e-commerce functionality that lets you sell anything online, and you can customize the look, the feel of settings, the products, and more with just a few clicks. It's super convenient. Everything is optimized for mobile. Right out of the box. You got built-in search engine optimization, free and secure hosting nothing to patch or upgrade ever. And 24 7 award-winning customer support, and they're gonna let you try it for free. Ooh, head on over to squarespace.com/joe for a free trial.

0 (1m 24s):
Then when you are ready to launch your new beautiful website, use the offer code Joe to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. We're also brought to you by Rev Town Jeans. Rev Town has created the holy grail of jeans. They are the only jeans that I wear. They got it fucking nailed. I'm wearing them right now. I wear 'em all the time. If you see me wearing jeans, I'm wearing Rev Town jeans. They've got it. A perfect combination of a gene that looks good, but feels like yoga pants. They've got the perfect amount of stretch and the perfect amount of durability. They just dialed it in. Okay. For the last 50 years, if you wanted to wear jeans, it was either some jeans that were too big so that your legs can move around in them, or they were stiff and you had to shove your body into 'em and you couldn't move anywhere.

0 (2m 17s):
Well, rev Town figured it out. They were created by a couple of guys who started at Under Armor, so they know about that stretchy scientific fiber shit for making world class performance, workout clothes and leggings, and other such gear. Well, they partnered with this old school denim designer in Milan, Italy to create jeans that look and feel and fit amazing. But when you're wearing them, you can move around in them like you're wearing a pair of sweats at 79 bucks a pair. They're less than half the price of some of those so-called designer jeans we've been jamming our junk into for years. They're fucking awesome. Pick up a pair at rev town.com/rogan.

0 (2m 58s):
They got something special just for you guys listening right now. Go. Go on over to rev town.com/rogan. And bonus Rev Town now ships internationally so you get 'em delivered to your doorstep no matter where you live. Head over to rev town.com/rogan to upgrade your denim game today. I'm wearing 'em right now. Rev town.com/rogan we're also brought to you by Simply Safe. Simply Safe, and they're fantastic. Home security. There's almost always a rise in break-ins during the holiday kids, and it's why Simply Safe Home Security is having a huge holiday sale, 40% off any simply Safe system and a free security camera.

0 (3m 41s):
Recently, US News and World Report called it the Best Home Security of 2020. So whether you're traveling or staying put for the holidays, check out the 40% off plus free security camera deal before it ends. This week, it won C Net's Editor's Choice for Home Security. It was named the best in 2020 by Forbes and Popular Mechanics. And their system has an arsenal of sensors and cameras that protect every inch of your home. You can set it up yourself in about 30 minutes. It's super easy. Plus there's no contract, no hidden fees, and no installation costs. Then simply Safe Security Specialists takeover monitoring your home around the clock and ready to send emergency help any moment there's an alarm.

0 (4m 26s):
So get 40% off Simply Safe, plus a free security camera today by visiting Simply safe.com/rogan. Hurry this deal expires on Friday. That's simply safe.com/rogan. Simply safe.com/rogan. And we're also brought to you by Casper and their fantastic mattresses. Ooh, it's holiday season kids. It's all about the bedroom. And Casper's Black Friday sale has up to 30% off everything you need to make your bedroom your happy place. The most supportive mattresses, plush, pillows, soft sheets, even cozy throw pillows and blankets so you better get Gifting.

0 (5m 12s):
Casper's Black Friday sale is on now with up to 30% off for a limited time@casper.com. Casper's mattresses are made with 86 supportive gel pods to align your spine and eliminate aches and pains. It's the supportive comfort that you need to wake up refreshed and ready to go. Casper's bed frames are made from the highest quality materials to ensure that your frame stays looking like new. Even after years of use. The Haven bed frame is made with premium felted wool for a soft and sophisticated look. Ooh, did you know that Casper also has bedroom accessories?

0 (5m 52s):
That's right from their warm magic glow light to their calming weighted blanket, even a dog bed. For your best friend, Casper has cozy gift ideas. For everyone that you know, give the gift of a better bedroom, save up to 30% during Casper's Black Friday sale on now@casper.com. Terms and conditions apply. See casper.com/terms for more details. My guest today is the CEO of Whole Foods and an author of several books, including Conscious Capitalism and Conscious Leadership. And this is what we really got into with the ideas of socialism and Marxism on the rise today.

0 (6m 35s):
He, he went into depth about why he believes that capitalism and especially capitalism with good ethics is the best thing for the world. We got to talking about all kinds of good stuff. It went long. This is a good one. I really enjoyed his company. I really enjoyed talking to him. We, we even had disagreements. Ooh, but I like them a lot. Please welcome the great and powerful John Mackie,

1 (6m 57s):
Joe Rogan podcast, checking out

2 (6m 59s):
The Joe Rogan experience

3 (7m 1s):
Train by day Joe Rogan podcast by night all day.

0 (7m 7s):
Hello, John.

4 (7m 8s):
Hey, Joe,

0 (7m 9s):
Nice to meet you. Likewise. Thank you for welcoming me to Austin and thanks for the food. No one's ever brought me food here.

4 (7m 15s):
I'm a grocer. That's what I do.

0 (7m 18s):
I know, but you, you brought me actual frozen meat, so thank you very much.

4 (7m 22s):
Frozen meats, some vegan cheese.

0 (7m 25s):
Yeah, that will go to friends.

4 (7m 27s):
It's really good. It's really good. Does it taste

0 (7m 29s):
Taste good or is it good for you? It

4 (7m 32s):
Both. It's just made strictly out almonds. That's all that's there. Oh, really? Yeah. Taste it. It's a cream cheese with chives in it. It's delicious.

0 (7m 38s):
I really just like almonds. Can I just have almonds?

4 (7m 41s):
You can, but, but you'll like the cheese. Give it a try. I know you're an open-minded man. Yeah,

0 (7m 46s):
I am. I'll try, I'll try your vegan cheese. Okay. But you, you're sending me mixed signals. You gave me frozen elk meat and vegan cheese.

4 (7m 55s):
I'm, you know, covering all bases.

0 (7m 58s):
What I want to talk to you about, well, first of all, you have a book out. The book is Conscious Capitalism. No.

4 (8m 4s):
That book that's out is Conscious Leadership, which, which is a sequel to, you already have that book.

0 (8m 8s):
Right? But I have this one right here.

4 (8m 9s):
Yeah. Cuz I brought that today

0 (8m 11s):
And Conscious Leadership, a sequel to Conscious Capitalism. Right. That for a lot of people, those are, that's an oxymoron. That's jumbo shrimp or military intelligence. Right. Conscious capitalism. Today in this, in this day and age, this very strange time, there's a large seg, I shouldn't say a large segment, but it's a very squeaky wheel. There's a segment of our culture that thinks that capitalism is evil.

4 (8m 35s):
Yeah. I'm not in that. I'm not in that classification. In fact, I think the opposite. I think capitalism's the greatest thing humanity's ever done, it's been capital. If you go back just 200 years ago when capitalism was really getting going, 94% of the people alive on the planet Earth lived on less than $2 a day. And that's adjusted for inflation. 94%. Today it's under 10%. If you go back 200 years ago, the average lifespan was 30. Now it's 72.6. We're heading in the advanced countries. It's about 80 illiteracy rates 200 years ago where 88% of the world couldn't read. Now, it's now the 12%.

0 (9m 13s):
But can you attribute that solely to capitalism or wouldn't you attribute that to innovation and technology? And

4 (9m 20s):
That's the right name for capitalism. It's Carl Marks called it capitalism. What it really is, a better name, which we talked about in conscious leadership, is innovationism continuous innovation is how humanity progre progresses. But it's it's business that takes the innovations of science and puts them into forms that create value for other people. So it's, it's, it's, it's been capitalism or innovationism that's lifted humanity out of the dirt that's transforming our world, even as we speak. It's amazing. Just what's happened in the last, in my lifetime, it's astounding all the progress that humanity's made. And we're going through a tough year right now. So it doesn't work in a perfect linear line.

4 (10m 2s):
But the trend lines are clear. The, the book I always try to get everybody to read is Stephen Pinker's book Enlightenment. Now, you ever take a look at that book?

0 (10m 10s):
No, I haven't, but I'm a big fan of a lot of his work.

4 (10m 13s):
Yeah. That book just documents. It's just unbelievable how he documents progress since the enlightenment. It's incredible.

0 (10m 22s):
The, the problem that a lot of people have with capitalism is they, they attribute capitalism to, to greed, attribute greed and the problems of the world and environmental destruction and ignoring climate change. And they attribute that to capitalism. And they think that the way out of this is socialism, some type of socialism. But in my opinion, the people that are saying that, they, I don't think they, I don't, I don't think there's anything wrong with contributing and contributing to a better community in terms of making healthcare more affordable or free making education more affordable or free.

0 (11m 3s):
But you gotta, human beings need incentives in order to perform. And that's, that's just human nature, whether we like it or not. If you want a system that allows for a continual progress of, in innovation, like constant innovation, you gotta give people incentives to do that. They have to incentive just the human animal strives to achieve for whatever reason. Totally

4 (11m 26s):
Agree. I mean, it's not like socialism hasn't been tried. Yeah. In the last a hundred years, 42 countries have tried socialism and there have been 42 failures.

0 (11m 35s):
Isn't it amazing that it's still popular

4 (11m 38s):
Because people just believe, well, because a new generation doesn't know their history. Yeah. And they just believe it hasn't been done right yet.

0 (11m 45s):
Yes.

4 (11m 46s):
It'll this time give me the power and I'll make sure it gets done right. Yeah. But it can't be done. Right. It's intrinsically flawed and they fall back on the Scandinavian argument. What about Sweden and Denmark and Norway? But those, those, if you look at the Economic Freedom Index, those are some of the most capitalistic countries in the world there. And, and the economic Freedom Index, for example, Denmark's listed one place below the United States. It's like number 12. Sweden's like number 20. United States is like number 13 or 14. So Iceland is even is the freest of those Scandinavian countries. So Sweden's held up as a, as an example.

4 (12m 26s):
But what people don't realize is the corporate income taxes in Sweden are only 21%. They have no inheritance taxes at all. They have universal vouchers for education. So free competition and education, not a monopoly. They do, they are probably in a lot of ways, more capitalistic than Americans are.

0 (12m 45s):
So what is it that they use, they, they point to when they talk point to these Scandinavian countries? What are they using it as an example of them being a shining light of socialism

4 (12m 53s):
In some sense? They're still stuck in the sixties when Sweden did an experiment with socialism before it moved away from it. They're still living in the sixties, and yet they tried it and their economy tanked.

0 (13m 6s):
When did they try, how'd they try it?

4 (13m 7s):
They, they, they socialized industry. They, they, they, they had government own the means of productions in most of these large corporations. And they had very high business taxes. And they, a lot of people like beyond Borg is a good example. It was driven outta Sweden or, or Ingmar bur and driven out for unbelievably high taxes. So, hey, just like you've been driven outta California.

0 (13m 34s):
Yeah. I wasn't driven out of it because of that. If California was still open the way Texas is, I would've stayed. I saw the writing on the wall with many things. One of 'em was that they were closing restaurants and bars and comedy clubs, and they weren't closing them in other states. And I, I didn't, I didn't think that they were recognizing that there's, there's an impact health-wise, but there, there's also a health impact if you destroy the economy and that, that impact, like, you're not people that get covid. Most people survive. Right. When your economy tanks and 40 plus percent of your businesses are gone.

0 (14m 15s):
I don't think economically you're gonna bounce back nearly as well. I think, I think it's a very dangerous place to be like Los Angeles right now. If you're a a business owner, it's a dangerous place to be because all of a sudden governors are acting like autocrats and they're, they're, I mean, there, there was a recent ruling right, where he lost in court because they, he's passing legislation on his own. He's making mandates on his own that the rest of the state doesn't agree with and they're not going through the normal process. Right. And they've stopped him from doing that now. But look, they, they still just put it, they imposed a curfew in Los Angeles of 10:00 PM Just a just random curfew.

0 (14m 58s):
Like what is, how is that stopping? All you're doing is limiting people. You're you're limiting free. You're not, there's no emphasis whatsoever on strengthening people's immune system. Right. Or on health and all this emphasis on tanking the, the economy. Yeah. All this emphasis on closing businesses down. And I just saw the writing on the wall. Yeah. And I'm like, this place is fucking doomed.

4 (15m 22s):
I think you're, I think you're telling the truth there, Joe. I agree.

0 (15m 25s):
I just can't believe that. See, before it didn't matter that much who your governor was or who your mayor was, when everything was going well, people didn't think about it that much. You know, you would be like, oh, you know, the mayor, whatever the fuck his name is, he's kind of goofy. Who cares? Let's go to work. And you would just do your normal thing. Go, this is America. How bad can they fuck this up? And then you realize in time of crisis, when they assume these powers that they never had before, and then you realize how insanely hypocritical they are. Well, thankfully, our governor, the governor of California, not my governor anymore. I got a Texas license. Now gimme some knuckles.

4 (16m 3s):
Congratulations. Thank you.

0 (16m 5s):
But when they caught him at that restaurant, the French laundry, right. You know, eating with no mask on inside, no social distancing, all the things that he tells everybody to do, tells everybody to put a mask on in between your bites of food. And then he is not doing it himself. You're like, right. Okay. This is, this is exactly like his Aunt Nancy Pelosi, when she got busted going to a beauty parlor with no mask on while they were all closed down. They, it's rules for you, but not rules for them. And it's, it's disgusting. Right?

4 (16m 36s):
I mean, is it really about the covid or is it about the rules? I mean, that's really the

0 (16m 40s):
Question. Well, human beings love telling people what to do. They do. They really do. And if they have a reason where they can justify that, that it seems feasible. Yeah. Like covid, then they just start imposing those rules.

4 (16m 52s):
And if people are frightened, they're more likely to go along with those rules too.

0 (16m 56s):
Imagine if instead of doing what they did, imagine if they spent a lot of time telling people how to strengthen their immune system. Imagine if they distributed free vitamins. Imagine if they put money into keeping these hospitals well staffed, hired more people and maybe even possibly tried to talk about opening up alternative hospitals if there was some overflow. But allowed people to go to work, told people, look, wear your mask social distance, take care of your health. Take your vi, do all these things. But we can't fucking taint the economy for nine months and not expect disaster. Well,

4 (17m 34s):
We actually have some good examples out there. And even though it ta it gets a lot of criticism. The way Sweden handled it is probably, again, more aligned with how America might have handled it in the previous decades.

0 (17m 47s):
Is that comparable though? Because Sweden is so small in comparison. I mean, you have Stockholm, you have, you have some cities, but you have all these like small villages and people are generally healthier there too.

4 (18m 1s):
I think it's comparable in the sense that in general, people are the best judges for what's best for themselves. I mean, government can give advice. They made recommendations to people in Sweden. They just didn't coerce them. Yeah. They just didn't force them to have a curfew here. Or their, their kids went to school. And, and people in general, people can make good decisions for themselves and their families. They're the ones that should be making the decisions, not the government.

0 (18m 27s):
A hundred percent. I couldn't agree more. And that is the difference between the way Texas approached this and the way California did. That's what drove me outta California. Yeah. The high taxes are stupid, but I liked living there. It was, lot of my friends were there because

4 (18m 42s):
Where is it more beautiful in the whole world than California? It's an amazing climate. It's, it's, it's just very, very incredibly beautiful place. I away

0 (18m 52s):
From

4 (18m 52s):
Fires too, though. I Well, that's true. I love to, I love to visit California, but I wouldn't wanna live there.

0 (18m 57s):
The, the comedy community there is pretty awesome. It's the comedy store and the improv. I mean, it's just two of the best clubs in the world. And they're right in this one city. And the, the community of comedians is just fantastic. And the fact that this

4 (19m 9s):
Was la was it the Silicon Valley, so to speak of com of comedy

0 (19m 14s):
Maybe better. Yeah, because Silicon Valley is, I mean, there's other parts of the world that have technology hubs, right? There's not really another comedy hub other than New York,

4 (19m 25s):
Chicago.

0 (19m 26s):
Not really. No. No. Chicago has Second City, which is a improv hub. It's different. You know, there's a, a great history of sketch comedy out of there. Of course. You know, second City is where, you know, Belushi came from and a lot of great sketch comedians came from. But as far as standup, it's really LA and New York. It used to be. Boston had a big part of it. And Boston still is a small community. Austin has right here. Austin, Texas has a, a small community that's always been very good. Like Kennison and Hicks Hicks actually came out here.

4 (19m 56s):
Have you done standup in Austin here? Yeah.

0 (19m 58s):
Yeah, I have. Yeah. Yeah. I did Stubbs Barbecue, which last week. There you go. And then I did Vulcan Gas Company the week before. So yeah. I'm, I'm, I'm getting rolling again. Ultimately I'm gonna open up a club here.

4 (20m 10s):
So you still love doing standup? It's

0 (20m 12s):
The most fun. It's the most fun. John, I know

4 (20m 15s):
I'm not interviewing you, but when you were like a kid, were you like, were you the class clown? No, that came later.

0 (20m 22s):
Yeah.

4 (20m 23s):
Yeah. You were a good boy. No,

0 (20m 24s):
No, I wasn't a good boy at all. Most of my friends thought I was crazy. They didn't, they never thought I was gonna be a comedian. Like if you talk to the people that I went to high school with,

4 (20m 32s):
You told me earlier that that comedians as a, as a general rule, are kind of screwed up.

0 (20m 38s):
Oh yeah. Yeah. A hundred percent. Yeah. As a general rule rule to want to do that, to want to humiliate yourself, get on stage. And the failure, the, the bombing is some of the most intense emotional pain a person can ever subject themselves to or be subjected. Is it,

4 (20m 56s):
Is it worse than like, getting rejected by a girl that you're in love with?

0 (20m 59s):
It's like sucking a thousand dicks in front of your mother. That's how I usually describe it. But he, it's different and worse because some guys would probably like doing that. There's, there's some people that would be like, watch mom, this is who I am. And then they would, they would enjoy it. Get over it, mom.

4 (21m 14s):
Yeah.

0 (21m 15s):
Get over it. Mom. No one likes bombing. Somebody might like sucking a thousand dicks for other mom. No one likes bombing. It's just an awful feeling because you're demanding attention and you don't deserve it. And the audience is like, you don't deserve this atten and you know, you don't deserve it. So you have this like, deep self-hate, but you have to get through that to get good at it. It's an inevitable part of the whole process of doing standup.

4 (21m 40s):
You, you kind of sync up with the audience. Can you kind of tell what's gonna land that night? You change your, your show, so to speak, as you pick up the feeling in the audience.

0 (21m 49s):
Ah, you move around a little depending upon how you feel and how they feel. But you know, you have an act and your act is,

4 (21m 58s):
But you have a lot of different things. You, a lot of things you could do.

0 (22m 1s):
Yes. Yeah. There's a lot of things you talk about.

4 (22m 3s):
I mean, he like say, I don't think this joke's gonna land with this particular audience. No. You go through, you go through they, they need to hear this.

0 (22m 12s):
It's, you know, it's, it gives you an opportunity to try to figure out a better way to word it or a better way to justify your position or a better, or a softer way to land it. You know, it's like there's all, like, there's a lot of different weird things that are going on when you're doing comedy. Comedy is kind of like mass hypnosis. That's what it's like.

4 (22m 32s):
You know, I do a lot of public speaking, so I have learned that there's, you know, you have to sync up with the audience and I can, I can just tell whether this is gonna land well with this particular group or whether it's not. And I, I sort of adjust on the fly. I still have a speech I'm gonna give, but I do alter it as I go along. I shorten some stuff, lengthen other stuff, and I substitute if I think that's gonna bomb out so well.

0 (22m 59s):
I think public speaking, like what you're doing when you're standing up and, and talking about a very particular subject is almost more open-ended because you really never know what kind of crowd you're gonna get. Whether they're gonna be in a good mood or a bad mood, whether they're bored or hot or cold. When you go to see comedy, generally people go there because they want to have fun. Yeah. So they have a good perspective when they get there. They're like, I've come here to have fun, laugh. I hope these comedians are funny. Like, you go there with like a little bit of a smile on your face when you sit down, like, here we go. It's gonna be fun.

4 (23m 29s):
Yeah. And so they have a predisposition to wanna laugh anyway. Yes, yes. They're not going there to judge you. They're going there to laugh. And

0 (23m 36s):
Some people are, but those people are, you

4 (23m 38s):
Know, that they, they already didn't like you before they went there. Yeah.

0 (23m 42s):
Or you know, there's some people that that think they're gonna, oh, well I'm gonna go and I'm gonna heckle, I'm gonna show 'em what's up. There's these,

4 (23m 47s):
These kinda

0 (23m 48s):
People. But, and generally clubs kick those people out. Really, most people that come to comedy clubs, they go because it's fun. Look, I still love comedy as a, a a as an audience member. I enjoy it as a customer. It's fun. I love watching great comedians. It's, it's feels good to laugh. I love, I love their creativity.

4 (24m 7s):
Do you learn a lot from other comedians?

0 (24m 9s):
Yeah. You do. Yeah. You do. You learn what makes you laugh. You like sometimes I'll, I'll see someone performing and it'll give, it'll inspire me. I'm like, wow, that guy really put a lot into that. Or, or wow. Her writing is sore. It's so clever. And it'll make you, it, it'll fire up your neurons. It'll get you excited. Do

4 (24m 25s):
You do your, all your own writing?

0 (24m 27s):
Yes. Yeah, I do all my own

4 (24m 28s):
Writing. Is that common or unusual or It's,

0 (24m 31s):
Most, most comedians do that. Yeah. There's only a few comics that like occasionally. So

4 (24m 35s):
Am I giving you any material right now, Joe? No, not yet.

0 (24m 37s):
Okay. Not yet. Maybe it'll happen occasionally. Comedians will write taglines for each other. Like, Michelle Wolf gave me a great tagline after we did a show together the other night. She gave me a, a really nice tagline. I was like, oh. Right, right. When she said I was like, was, that's nice secret. Can't tell you. I'll tell you later.

4 (24m 54s):
I have to, I have to pay to go to the club. No, I'll

0 (24m 56s):
Tell you. I just don't wanna say it online off. I

4 (24m 58s):
Didn't know you censored yourself when you were doing the show. I'm

0 (25m 0s):
Not censoring myself. John. Why are you making me uncomfortable? Making me sensitive? It's, it's Austin's a particularly good place to comedy cuz there's a great history of standup comedy in Texas. Like Kennison, who's arguably one of the greatest of all time. You know, this is where he cut his teeth. This is where it all went together for him. So Austin, like when I first started doing standup, I was selling out in Houston before I was selling out anywhere. Cuz for whatever reason, they had this longing for that kind of raw comedy that you really, it's hard to get in a lot of places that are maybe a little bit too politically correct. Like, there's certain places where they're, they're so woke, they're almost like they wanna laugh, but they want to call you out on your comedy almost as much as they wanna laugh.

4 (25m 47s):
And they don't want to get criticized for laughing on something that's they shouldn't laugh at. Right? Yeah,

0 (25m 52s):
Yeah. We were talking about this before the show. They

4 (25m 55s):
Should go into disguise.

0 (25m 56s):
Yeah, right. Like a Groucho marks.

4 (25m 58s):
Exactly. Exactly.

0 (25m 60s):
Glasses and mustache. Exactly. Well, you can get some great disguises today, you know, like with the prosthetics and all the stuff that they can do today. Yeah. If you wanna go to a comedy show and just laugh at the most horrible

4 (26m 10s):
Shit, maybe some of 'em are doing that. It's don't think they are, John.

0 (26m 15s):
I don't think people think that far in advance. Maybe like a very, very small percentage of the population. Have you been to a lot of standup comedy?

4 (26m 24s):
I haven't, no. I confess just been working my ass off for

0 (26m 27s):
I think it would be interesting for you just from the perspective of the fact that you do a lot of these public speaking gigs. You know, like I think you would, I think whenever you get the chance to see someone else perform in a different way, like, I like going to see musicians because I have zero talent. I have no musical talent at all, all, so when I go to see a musician, I can just enjoy it solely as an audience member. I don't have to remove myself from the, like, like as a fellow comic, I'll judge someone's delivery or timing, even though I'm trying to just enjoy it. You're, there's always gonna be a part of you that's like, ah, this is kind of clunky. Like, why is he setting it up like this? But when you go to see music, I could just enjoy someone performing.

0 (27m 8s):
I think I get something out of that.

4 (27m 11s):
I'm gonna give it another try.

0 (27m 13s):
I'll tell you, I'll tell you when I'm in town. Next, the, the, the back to the subject of capitalism. Capitalism and Marxism and socialism. This, right now we're in a wave of this. Right? It's become more popular now. I I would say over the last, particularly during the Trump administrations, the, the concept of socialism at least has become more, more publicly discussed than any time that I can remember in my life. Why do you think that is?

4 (27m 44s):
I think it's because the generation that's coming up is, I mean, you have to understand the academic community is is, I always say the intellectuals have always been the enemy of business, enemy of certainly the en enemy of capitalism. And

0 (28m 1s):
But why is that?

4 (28m 2s):
I think because in a, in a market society, which has been rare in history, we haven't mostly had market societies, but they're not very important in a market society.

0 (28m 14s):
The intellectuals aren't very important.

4 (28m 15s):
Generally not as important. No. But

0 (28m 17s):
Aren't they the ones that inspire the minds of the people that create and, and maybe innovate in the industry? They

4 (28m 23s):
Don't have the same social status that the entrepreneurs have an Elon Musk or, or Steve Jobs or Jeff Bezos.

0 (28m 32s):
So you think it's an ego issue? The social status issue.

4 (28m 35s):
Think, think about it this way. If you, you're, you're going to school, okay? And the people that end up teaching in the universities were always the smartest kids in the school generally. And they, and they do well in school, I mean smart in terms of doing well in school. And they go on to college and then they, they they go and get a PhD and then they, they, that's all they've known is school friends and relationships. And they, and they make more money than the intellectuals do. And that seems like that's completely unfair. It's an unjust world that the less smart people are making more money than the smart people do and they have more status in the society. And I think, I think that's under underlying it is a resentment or an envy of a society that doesn't judge them to be as important as they judge themselves.

0 (29m 19s):
That's interesting. But I think it's a very flawed perspective. And, and first of all, the, the term smart is a weird term, right? I

4 (29m 26s):
Said smart in terms of school. I didn't say in terms of street smarts Yeah. Or ability to do things to connect with people. There's emotional intelligence. I'm merely saying they're good at taking tests, writing papers, abstracting thoughts, essentially.

0 (29m 42s):
Yeah. But this is what I'm saying that just the term smart, it's almost like the problem is, it's like a blanket term, right? It's like drugs, you know, it applies to a bunch of different things that don't necessarily seem to be related. But the people that are interested in that pursue that, the fact that they can't understand that there's an intel, like Elon Musk is a great example. If you don't think Elon Musk is intelligent, you're either denial, you're in,

4 (30m 10s):
You're not very intelligent yourself. Yeah. You don't think Elon Musk is intelligent. You're

0 (30m 13s):
Delusional or you're a liar or you're in denial. Right? It's, it's one of those things, something wrong with the way you think. He's clearly intelligent, but there's people that call him a fool and that they're like the guy's running like four different businesses simultaneously. They're all successful and he's innovating with, when it comes to space travel in a way that you would assume that someone have to dedicate most of their life just singularly to that task. To be able to figure out past NASA how to shoot a rocket up into space and have it land right. And then reuse it. No one's been able to do that besides him or up until he did it. And I, I think Jeff Bezos's company's doing the same thing. Yeah. Too now

4 (30m 52s):
Blue Origin. Yeah. They're, they're obviously two of the great entrepreneurs of Yeah. This particular era.

0 (30m 57s):
But I don't think Jeff Bezos is actually engineering these things.

4 (31m 0s):
But if you think about it, the, the intellectuals have always disliked business. They've always discriminated against the merchant classes, the Jews in the West Chinese and the east. There's really been no historical period where intellectuals praised business. Maybe a little bit around the time of Adam Smith up until probably Ricardo and Mathis wrote in the early 19th century. For the most part, business people have been seen. They're disruptive, they change things. They upset the status quo. They're they in, they innovate well. A lot of people don't like innovations. It's threatening. It changes, it changes social status, it changes wealth, relationships. That, it's almost like capitalism is like a genie that got out of the bottle and they're trying very hard to stuff the genie back in the bottle as much as they can.

4 (31m 48s):
And I think if you think about it that way, you'll understand we're never gonna win the intellectuals over. I mean, I speak in universities all the time and the students, I'm an entrepreneur. I self-identify that way. Students love when I talk about conscious capitalism. Cause I say you can do good and you can do well. There's no contradiction here. You're not, you're the good guys here. You're not the bad guys. Do you debate

0 (32m 9s):
People about this? I do.

4 (32m 10s):
I I've debated a number of socialists

0 (32m 13s):
And what, what, what is their primary argument?

4 (32m 15s):
Their primary argument is, is that business is greedy and selfish. And it's about motivations that, that they, that business people have the wrong motivations in a lot of ways. Conscious capitalism is an answer to that. It's a complete answer to that because in the book and in conscious leadership as well, we're basically arguing that business isn't primarily about maximizing profits. Business is primarily about creating value for other people. And through creating value for other people, you do make a profit, but it's the value creation that comes first. The profits come second in exchange. Right? And it's almost, if you are creating value, then you are profitable and then you can reinvest those profits and you, and you have this upwards spiral.

4 (32m 60s):
So that's, that business has this potential for higher purpose. It's not primarily about greed. Greed is found in human nature, Joe. It's not just found in business people. There are plenty of greedy governmental officials, plenty of greedy politicians, greedy lawyers. Greed is endemic to the human nature. Business people either have no more or no less than it. It's just part of who we are.

0 (33m 22s):
Has anyone ever laid it out in a way that's very compelling? Like when you have these debates with socialists and someone, has anyone ever laid it out in a way where they have a point where you see their point?

4 (33m 34s):
You always, the best way to do a debate is completely understand the other side's position. Yeah. Understand it as good or better than they understand it. And so I've read widely in socialistic literature. I think I do understand it. It's, it's, it's a type of utopianism. It's a, it's an attempt to change human nature. If we would all be, if we would all love each other, and if we'd all share equally, then the world would be a better place. And hey, guess what? It probably would be if, if we were naturally that way. But we're not naturally that way. We, we look first generally for ourselves and our own families and then our, and our growing circle of relationships that we develop, we want, we don't, it's not natural to, it's natural to want your own children to have advantages.

4 (34m 20s):
That's, that's just human nature to want your children to flourish because you, you raise them, you love them. And somehow or another to say that's unfair is cutting against human nature. People are always gonna look for, for advantages or privileges, so to speak for their children.

0 (34m 34s):
Yeah. People don't like when people have advantages and have and, and have victories because then someone has to lose. And when someone loses, they equate that someone losing

4 (34m 43s):
Against human nature. People are always gonna look for, for advantages or privileges, so to speak, for their children.

0 (34m 48s):
Yeah. People don't like when people have advantages and have and, and have victories because then someone has to lose. And when someone loses, they equate that someone losing with a bad feeling with the that person being victimized. Like there's some,

4 (35m 2s):
So here's a big idea. We talk about unconscious leadership. We have a chapter called find win, win win solutions. The metaphors that we use to think about society tend to be very binary, good versus evil, light versus darkness win versus lose. And so they tend to think of business as a win lose game. Somebody wins and somebody else is losing. But the beauty of capitalism is it's a win-win win game. It's an infinite game. It's a game because the customers are winning or they wouldn't trade. The employees are winning. How are the customers winning? They're getting products and services at a, at a and and, and there's competition to make those services and products better.

4 (35m 47s):
The employees are winning because they have jobs and opportunities to grow. Benefits are paid and they do that voluntarily. They're not forced to work for any particular company. They do it because they think it's in their best interest win for the employees. The suppliers who are trading with the business, they're winning as well. Or they wouldn't make the exchanges, investors are winning or they wouldn't make the investments. And the larger society is winning because business is the engine that creates all the money that goes into nonprofits and governments. Without business, there is no government and there is no, and there is no nonprofit sector because those are ultimately supplied through what business creates. So business is a win, win, win game.

4 (36m 28s):
All of these stakeholders are winning. And that's why capitalism lifts society up. Socialism is an attempt to reverse that back to a win-lose game. And that's why it always fails. And that's why capitalism win.

0 (36m 40s):
How's an win? How an attempt to bring it back to a win-lose game. In what way? It

4 (36m 45s):
It, the ones that are winning, so to speak, the business people are clamped down. So they're not allowed to win. It's like, we're gonna take your success and we're gonna redistribute it. So that, as again, you said earlier on incentives matter, but we're, we're gonna take away the incentives for business to really flourish and succeed. They should do it from altruistic reasons. And we may do some things for altruistic reasons, but you cannot build a society around it.

0 (37m 9s):
Do, when you're talking about win, win, win, this is a very, in many ways it's, I see what you're saying, but there are things that are negative that are associated with profit and innovation and particularly expanding industry. Right? Particularly environmental impacts. Like when you talk, when you say win, win, win, like there's, there's very rarely when you're, especially when you're dealing with creating and designing and building things, you've got a negative impact in some way. Environmentally.

4 (37m 44s):
Two, two points. First of all, historically socialism's been far worse, worse polluter than than capitalism

0 (37m 52s):
Countries.

4 (37m 53s):
How so? Well, if you just look at the environmental destruction that the Soviet Union left behind it, it was a complete disaster.

0 (37m 58s):
Right? But that's this, this is socialism done wrong, John. We're gonna do it right here. Who

4 (38m 2s):
Has done it right Joe? No way. No one's done it. Right.

0 (38m 5s):
But the Soviet Union is a bad example. Stalin was, yeah,

4 (38m 8s):
But all of eastern Europe were there. There's no incentive to protect the common good in socialism. And they don't, when the government has a monopoly of all decision and power making, they don't tend to look out for the environment. That's one of the myths.

0 (38m 23s):
You also take away agency from people and you take away their desire to improve and do better. And without incentive, people just don't perform the same way.

4 (38m 33s):
But the beautiful thing about business, let's concede a partial truth to what you said, that there will be unintended negative consequences, as you say environmentally. Well that's why you have to regulate business to a certain extent. That's why you have to make people responsible for their environmental pollutants. And because Bennett business innovates and has an incentive to innovate, business can innovate and create solutions to those environmental

0 (39m 1s):
Problems. Okay, lemme stop you there for a second. When you say make people responsible for their environmental pollutants, then we're, we're gonna have to deal with another aspect of capitalism. And that's the, the effect that special interest groups and lobbyists have on politicians because they create laws that shield these big businesses from consequences, from these negative actions. So by saying that they have to clean up their problem, the only way that's ever going to happen is if they're not protected, if they don't use that influence and money. Totally

4 (39m 32s):
Agree.

0 (39m 33s):
So this is where I think a lot of people have a, a valid argument against capitalism. Exactly. Capitalism is kind of fucked over our, our, our, our system of government in a way. Because money has gotten so deeply involved with super pacs and lobbyists and there's so much money involved that it changes the way we, we govern things.

4 (39m 57s):
Is that a flaw of capitalism or is that a flaw of government?

0 (39m 60s):
I think it's a flaw of government. But that government has been influenced by capitalism, by capitalism's desire for universal growth, for constant growth.

4 (40m 10s):
The the sad truth is that humanity is not perfectable. We can never create the perfect system and the attempt to create the perfect system, the perfect enemy, the good right. Capitalism is not perfect. It does not. Because human choices and what people want varies people to capitalism will sell cigarettes to people because that's what people want. It gives 'em pleasure, but it's bad for their health. But they're, they're, they're giving people what they want. It's, it's the same thing in, in any type of externality that's not, that's not deliberately done to harm the society. It's sort of a byproduct. Right.

0 (40m 48s):
But this is why win, win win doesn't really work. It's not really win, win win, it's win most of the time, but with some negative consequences that are better than the alternative. Right.

4 (40m 59s):
But what you strive for is to, is to take those externalities or those negative consequences and try to through good government to, to minimize them or less than, I'll give you an example. So you used to live in la Well when I went to LA back in the early eighties, it was like going to New Delhi today, I couldn't see my lungs hurt less than 24 hours. Right. But through good regulations, the error in LA is a fraction, as polluted as it was 40 years ago, we have been able to clean it up. That is an example of how you can take the worst impacts of industrialization and, and ameliorate them or lessen them. What

0 (41m 37s):
Do you think about the government of LA's decision or the governor, governor of California rather's decision to eliminate all sales of combustion engine cars after 2035?

4 (41m 51s):
It's easy to, my first thought is, is that a lot of times people make these proclamations in the future that they'll never be around to see the ultimate that actually realized, meaning that it'll be somebody else's problem then. So it's a politician will make promises and claims for the future that they won't themselves ever deliver on. Yeah. So I I think that's well intentioned in terms of lessening environmental externalities from the internal combustion engine or from carbon production. However, is it realistic? Is it possible? I don't think so.

0 (42m 31s):
Well there's also people that argue that it's not even well intentioned. If you look at the actual impact of dragging minerals out of the ground to make these batteries that the production of electric cars, it's, it's not a zero impact on the environment at all. It's like there's profound impacts.

4 (42m 51s):
Yeah. There, there is, there's no escape. You know, humanity, ever since humanity's been around Joe, it's had a negative impact on the environment, right? If, if the hunters and gatherers wiped out most of the large animal species that they could, that were wild, they did it everywhere they went, they did it in Europe, they did it in North America, they did it in Australia. Agriculture is when you take under a lot of land under cultivation, you're gonna, you're gonna mow down the jungles. And if you're gonna graze cattle, that's gonna have a negative impact on the environment. There's no escaping human humanities impact on the environment. It's always gonna be there. Because guess what? We're part of the environment. The question is how do we, you can create the win-win win.

4 (43m 33s):
You just can't create perfection. We're always, we solve some problems. And when new problems come up, every generation has to begin to solve the problems of the, the problems that the parents couldn't solve.

0 (43m 44s):
I agree with you that capitalism is a better alternative. And I agree because of all the things that we talked about, that it gives more incentive that the, that having innovation and having these incentives creates better alternatives for people in terms of like how to live their life. It gives them in, in terms of medicine and in terms of what, what's going on in the medical industry, saving far more lives, fixing far more people that have been injured. And I, I agree with all those things. I just think that sometimes we tend to want to put things in these very simplistic packages like win, win, win. And I don't necessarily think that's a, a

4 (44m 23s):
Win win win is, it's an ethical framework that you can use to think about situations like you and I've met today. So we can create win-wins between each other. You know, reciprocity, I, you in fact we're probably doing that right now. I have a new book that I love people to read

0 (44m 43s):
And you gave me some vegan cheese

4 (44m 45s):
And you, you're not paying me anything to come on your show. And I usually get a lot of money, don't I don't, I speak. So it's a win-win. We're both gaining or we wouldn't be doing this change. Who

0 (44m 53s):
Pays you to speak? Like what generally is it these business conferences people wanna learn about? Mostly

4 (44m 60s):
Business conferences.

0 (45m 0s):
So people wanna learn trade, how you trade, did

4 (45m 2s):
It trade shows? Trade shows mostly. One guy told me one time, he said he was really honest, he said this was a few years ago and he said there were like three pretty well-known business speakers, including myself. And, and I said, how did you get all three of us? And he said, you are all three. We're a lot cheaper than Hillary. And the point is, and cleaner. And he told me, he said, look, it's simple. We have a trade show, they're mostly gonna be on the floor. This is the one time I can get everybody in around the industry because they'll come in to hear you speak or they hear the other speakers. So we're paying you to put PE to put butts in the seats so we can hold our trade show together.

4 (45m 47s):
So that's a win-win. It's good for me. They're paying me money. It's good for them. We're getting butts in the seat to listen to their, to their trade show spiel.

0 (45m 56s):
And also you want to give people,

4 (45m 59s):
I wanna get my message out there. Yeah. I wanna get my message out there about conscious capitalism.

0 (46m 3s):
This message, is this something that you have sort of developed over the years of arguing with people about it?

4 (46m 9s):
No, it's mostly from what we did at Whole Foods. Cuz I had no background in business. Right. I'm, I'm an entrepreneur. I didn't, I

0 (46m 17s):
You guys started here, right?

4 (46m 18s):
In Austin. That's right. First store here. 40 over 42 years ago now. Jesus,

0 (46m 22s):
You look great. How old are you?

4 (46m 25s):
67. You look

0 (46m 26s):
Very good. Well thank you. I'll

4 (46m 28s):
Tell you right now. See, look, win, win, win, win-win, relationship, eating

0 (46m 30s):
All that Whole Foods, foods.

4 (46m 31s):
I'm eating all that Healthy Whole Foods.

0 (46m 33s):
That is one thing that you guys did do that's very interesting, right? You created a market where like if you tell people I go to Whole Foods, you know, people are like, oh well you care about your health. Like it's synonymous with healthy foods. Even in the name Whole Foods.

4 (46m 51s):
That was our brand when we were up and comer and then when we got really rich, America loves the up and comer. But then once you have become really successful and you're making a lot of money, they start to turn on you.

0 (47m 3s):
Oh no.

4 (47m 4s):
Well we became whole paycheck.

0 (47m 6s):
Who wrote, who said that?

4 (47m 7s):
I don't know, but whoever did I wish they,

0 (47m 9s):
I never saw it. I never saw that until right now. You just shit on yourself in a way that I never, all I heard was Whole Foods. I never heard Whole Paycheck.

4 (47m 16s):
Then you, you, your team didn't do good research. Ah,

0 (47m 19s):
I have no team. So is this when you sold to Amazon?

4 (47m 23s):
No, no. The whole paycheck thing has been around for a long time.

0 (47m 26s):
Oh cuz whole paycheck. Meaning cuz it's so expensive.

4 (47m 28s):
Yes. Because initially when we were up and comer you, if you shop at Whole Foods, you were showing everybody. You were sort of, you were with

0 (47m 34s):
It predominantly

4 (47m 35s):
Conscious. Yes. And you were hip and cool and then the narrative went sour because it's like you're a fool for shopping there because you can get the same food cheaper elsewhere. So you're going to whole paycheck. So the narrative turned negative, so to speak. I still see that pretty much all the time. Although since our merger with Amazon, we've cut our prices many, many times.

0 (47m 56s):
How'd you do that?

4 (47m 58s):
Amazon allowed Whole Foods to think long term. Again, we needed to cut our prices. But when you're a public company, if you're selling something for a dollar and you say, you know what, we need to sell this for 90 cents and you start selling it for 90 cents in the short run, you just cut your sales 10% cuz you're not selling any more of it over the long term. People will realize, man, I can get a good deal for 90 cents. I used to pay a buck for it. And they start to shop with you more and, and your sales will go up. But when you're a public company and the market's very short-term oriented, you pay a heavy price in the short term for reducing your prices. And Amazon is willing to think long-term and let Whole Foods do that.

0 (48m 34s):
Does Jeff Bezos got that long money son?

4 (48m 37s):
He has long money because he's had, he's had a lot of brilliant ideas and put together a pretty, pretty good team.

0 (48m 44s):
Yeah. What keeps that guy working? When you, when you have 150 in the bank, 150 billion, what keeps you going?

4 (48m 51s):
Well, most of it. He has it in, doesn't have it in the bank. He's got it in stock. Probably got

0 (48m 54s):
A few in

4 (48m 55s):
The bank. He's got a few in the bank probably.

0 (48m 57s):
I feel like he could probably relax.

4 (48m 58s):
I mean, I think I, I think the same thing that keeps me going at age 67. I mean, building something's great fun building Whole Foods. I don't, I mean, I've got plenty of money, Joe. I don't need to work. I just like it. It's

0 (49m 10s):
Fun. Do you still run Whole Foods? Like what's your relationship there? Still

4 (49m 14s):
Ceo.

0 (49m 14s):
Still ceo. So you still work long hours?

4 (49m 18s):
I don't work as long today as I did when I was in my twenties and thirties. There's no question about it. Cause I was putting a lot of 80 hour weeks in year after year after year after year. Well you're building some, you know, it wasn't work. It was play. Yeah, I was having a blast. It was fun.

0 (49m 32s):
Elon Musk has famously said that if you're in a tech startup and you're not working 120 hour weeks, you won't succeed.

4 (49m 39s):
Yeah. I've never been into tech startup, so I can't speak for that. The grocery business wasn't quite that hard. But we did put a lot of 80 hour

0 (49m 45s):
Weeks. That seems like not a lot of time to sleep.

4 (49m 48s):
And I'm a great believer in sleep. Sleep is how you,

0 (49m 51s):
Like how many hours are left? How many hours are in a week?

4 (49m 54s):
Well, let's see. There's 24 hours, 168 hours a week.

0 (49m 59s):
Hundred 68 hours. He's only

4 (50m 0s):
Got 48 hours of sleep.

0 (50m 2s):
That is ridiculous. Elon.

4 (50m 4s):
How dare. Well, I don't know if all you did was that's 48 hours divided by seven, that's almost seven hours a night. If all you did was work and sleep, I don't know when he eats. Maybe you have to eat when you're working. You

0 (50m 14s):
Definitely have to eat. I would've, I would recommend eating.

4 (50m 17s):
And you gotta go to the bathroom sometime. Yeah, I gotta scratch that out.

0 (50m 20s):
So you sleep seven hours a night and just stay at work?

4 (50m 24s):
Yeah. I I don't actually think you have to put a lot of energy in to build anything. Yes. But if you're doing it right, we talk a lot about conscious capitalism is about higher purpose. If you have a purpose that's animating you, it doesn't feel like work. It feels like play. It also attracts people to you that share that same purpose.

0 (50m 41s):
This is something that I find very frustrating in people that don't recognize that it is incredibly difficult to build a successful business when they just want to tax the shit outta people and take all that money. Like, do you think it's easy to make something like Whole Foods? Do you think it's easy to make a company like Tesla? Do you think it's it's not easy. It's an insanely difficult task. That's why most people don't do it. Exactly. But when someone does do it and they have become successful, then other people start looking at it and go, well, they have all this money. They should contribute more. Or they should do this. Or, you know, you're talking about some people have suggested some extraordinary tax rates in order to get us out of this current recession.

0 (51m 23s):
And then I talk to business people and they say, that is the exact wrong approach because that's actually gonna stifle business. And business is the only thing that's gonna bring us out of this. If you incentivize businesses to take risks and to be open and to make more profits, then more people are gonna get jobs, then the economy bounces back. But if you give them a gigantic tax burden, they're gonna be less likely to take chances. They're not going to be able to survive. And, and people on the outside who've never built a business like Whole Foods, they don't seem to see that.

4 (51m 59s):
They don't see it. The reality is, is that people like an Elon Musk or Jeff Bezos, they are, they're good capital allocators, so to speak. They're not gonna waste that money. That money's gonna be reinvested to create new and more dynamic businesses that will help the innovations will help our society move forward. When you just redistribute that money, it, there's no more additional innovation. It's just, it's just, it's being consumed. This whole idea that it's consumption that drives the economy is fundamentally a myth. It's mostly creativity and innovation that drives the economy.

4 (52m 41s):
So we need to keep that money in the hands of our most creative people, which are entrepreneurs, creative business people. And for some reason I probably, I think because of envy, it seems so unfair. Again, we are in a win-lose model. If Jeff Bezos has $150 billion, then that's unfair in some sort of cosmic way. That's unfair. And they believe that some or another others have less. So there's like this fixed pie and Jeff took a big piece of it. Or, or, or Elon Musk has taken a big piece of it, but it's not a fixed pie. That's the wrong metaphor. Innovationism is continually growing the pie. And in fact, humanity is demonstrably better off because of the capitalists because of the innovationists, let

0 (53m 23s):
Me play devil's advocate. Cause this is the way they look at, at it. They would say, well, when you get to that sort of a position like a Jeff Bezos where you have 150 billion, you can exert your influence on people in a way that's detrimental to society. You've achieved too high of a position, you have too much power and you will probably lose, use that power to loosen regulations, to bribe politicians or influence politicians and to get laws passed that are better for your business and stifle competition.

4 (53m 57s):
I think that's a powerful argument. And if and when it happens, you have to push back against, you have to resist it. I think most business people are not doing that. I think, I don't see that Jeff's trying to pass or you know, or I don't see Mo, I don't see Jeff trying to pass laws that

0 (54m 12s):
I don't, I'm not saying he is. If he was boy, would they come after him? Yeah. Because he's bawling so hard. They'd be like that motherfucker. He is. Doesn't have enough.

4 (54m 21s):
But I know that before, when Whole Foods was, we were a public company for 25 years and we, we had the government go after us a few times for, well they tried to stop our, we tried to make an acquisition of a, of a company called Wild Oats back in 2007. We actually made the acquisition, but the FTC tried to stop it. We ended up going into court with them and we actually won in court. And very interesting. The FTC has their own court and they, after we won in the federal courts, they said, well now we want to take you into the, our court, the administrative

0 (54m 50s):
Court. Oh, terrific. They have their own court. They

4 (54m 52s):
Have their own court. Don't

0 (54m 53s):
You wish you had your own court? Take you to Whole Foods court motherfucker.

4 (54m 57s):
I'll take the Ft. FTC to the whole court. Right. But you know, at the

0 (54m 60s):
People's Court,

4 (55m 0s):
You don't win in the FTC court. You don't win in that court. So,

0 (55m 3s):
Well, how many people have won in that court?

4 (55m 6s):
I think when I've looked at it at that time, this back in 2007, I think 46 of the 48 previous cases, this is from memory. So I could be wrong, had lost,

0 (55m 14s):
They should go to court. So someone should take them to

4 (55m 16s):
Court. But here's the thing, I asked our attorney, so okay, we're gonna lose in this court, in their court. Then what happens? He says, well, then you appeal that back to the federal courts. And, and then after that, if they want to, they would go to the Supreme Court if they'll take it. I said, how much is it gonna cost me to just fight them in their own courts? They said, it's gonna cost you 30 million in legal fees. Not to mention a lot of executive time. It's like, oh man, 30 million. And we're gonna know we're gonna lose and then we're gonna have to spend another 30 million to go to the appeals and beyond that, the lawyers love it, by the way. Of course. They want you to do it

0 (55m 46s):
Like divorce lawyers.

4 (55m 48s):
Yes, exactly. Let's, they love it. Let's have people fight. You

0 (55m 50s):
Guys should not talk.

4 (55m 52s):
Don't

0 (55m 53s):
Talk this

4 (55m 53s):
Out. Don't try to work this out. Cause he's gonna try to, don't steal your money. He's gonna try to steal that money from you.

0 (55m 58s):
He's a piece of shit. Look at him. Look at him.

4 (56m 1s):
So again,

0 (56m 1s):
So what did you do? You wound up settling?

4 (56m 3s):
We ended up, yes. We ended up, they let the merger go through and we agreed to sell off a bunch of stores. Oh. And that was, that was the best we could do.

0 (56m 12s):
How many stores do you have to sell off?

4 (56m 15s):
We, we put up about 30 for sale. I, and, and we, we only about, about, I don't know, I think five or six we sold off five or six.

0 (56m 25s):
When someone is involved in that kind of a fucked up scenario where you bring 'em to FTC court where no one wins. If you do win like ultimately a Supreme Court, they, they should take it out of the salary of the people that forced you into doing that. It should be worth it for you to go to war.

4 (56m 44s):
Those rich guys should make the government do that with all their power. Yeah. You know, if the rich guys are so powerful, how come we have such high tax rates?

0 (56m 52s):
Cuz you make a lot of money, but don't you shield it? Didn't Donald Trump pay like 700 bucks in taxes?

4 (56m 58s):
I don't know what he paid in taxes cuz we never actually saw his, we just heard what the right New York Times said he paid. But we don't really know for sure cause we never really saw the taxes release.

0 (57m 6s):
Well, the New York Times would never lie,

4 (57m 8s):
But of course not.

0 (57m 11s):
Isn't that funny? That, that's a funny thing to say now. Boy, that used to be like, if you said that in 1980, people would agree with you.

4 (57m 18s):
Depends on how you say it too today. Yeah.

0 (57m 20s):
Well there's a lot of dummies that think that New York Times never lie today, but they've been caught lying. Unfortunately. Yeah, there's, there's a problem with journalism in particular today and it's that it's not just journalism now. It's a business that is sort of in a very fucked up place where sensationalism is very important to the business model. Yeah.

4 (57m 41s):
The the, the click, the click through is the click bait.

0 (57m 43s):
It's very important. It's very important. Nobody's buying physical copies anymore, so they can't just rely on subscriptions. Yeah.

4 (57m 50s):
Did you, did you see that in recent documentary, the Social Dilemma?

0 (57m 53s):
Yes, I did.

4 (57m 54s):
That was kind of creepy.

0 (57m 55s):
I had Tristan Harris on the podcast a couple weeks ago.

4 (57m 57s):
Yeah, really?

0 (57m 58s):
Yeah,

4 (57m 58s):
Yeah,

0 (57m 59s):
Yeah. It's very disturbing. Yeah. Because you see how this all plays out and you're, you know, you're seeing it right now online with the election results. We are, yeah. You're Civil

4 (58m 10s):
War looks like we're heading to our civil war.

0 (58m 11s):
Yeah. And the, and then you have like, the real wacky sections of both, you know, you have the QAN on one side and the Antifa is on the other side and like, oh, it's so nuts. Like

4 (58m 26s):
It is crazy, crazy, crazy crazy.

0 (58m 28s):
That's Sydnee Powell lady. She seems unhinged.

4 (58m 32s):
We'll see what she can deliver the goods or not. I'm

0 (58m 35s):
Very curious to see how this all plans out or, or pans out rather, but it just, you know, it just seems like the most divided I can ever remember this country being

4 (58m 48s):
Definitely in my lifetime, the most divided, which

0 (58m 50s):
Is exactly what they were talking about in the social dilemma. And they're, they were literally saying that what's happening with these algorithms, what's happening with these echo chambers that people are involved with in social media? What's happening with the way it, the way it influences the mind to gravitate towards these things that upset people and to rile people up and get people more and more interested in these particularly polarizing subjects like we're headed towards almost like a civil war.

4 (59m 20s):
Yeah. You know, of course I do. Well I think the social dilemma is a good movie and a lot to learn from. And I do think it, it overstates it. And I, in our, in our book Conscious Leadership, we talk about cultural intelligence in the book, particularly the very last part of the appendix. And we talk about how there're there are three major types of worldviews that exist in the United States that are, that are clashing each other. The first one is more of a traditional worldview of heritage values that, that might be traditional Christianity or traditional Judaism combined with belief in the Declaration of Independence, the constitution, sort of very traditional values.

4 (1h 0m 5s):
And, and, and then you have the modernist worldview, which is science, rationality, capitalism, success, getting ahead. And that's the second. And now we have a progressive worldview that hasn't been around that long, but it's, it's a third major worldview. And I think statistically we think about 30% of the population is in the traditional worldview. About 50% is in the modernist worldview and about 20% is in the progressive worldview. And these, all these worldviews are struggling with each other to dominate, to have their values become the law of the land.

4 (1h 0m 46s):
And everybody must conform with their values because their values are correct. So that, that's, that we think that's the essence of this cultural struggle going on. And we, we need, and we argue in the book that there's a fourth we call post progressivism, which basically recognizes all the values have good things about them and they have some bad things about them. Right. So they have dignities and disasters. And if we're gonna, if we're gonna get through it, we need conscious leaders who will be able to take the, the, the best things about each one of these worldviews and integrate them together so that we can give each of the worldviews enough to feel like this is a society worth belonging to. If we try to cram one set of values down everybody else's throats and force that into law, we're gonna have a civil war cuz America's not gonna stand for it.

0 (1h 1m 32s):
Yeah, I like that perspective that there are good things and bad things about these sides. And that's one of the, the things we're talking about like that we're so polarized today.

4 (1h 1m 41s):
And something you were talking about with capitalism because you were saying, Hey John, it's not perfect. The, and capitalism is a modernistic sort of part of the modernistic worldview, and it's not perfect. There are some problems and challenges with it, but the dignities of it are tremendous and they, we can't throw out the baby with the bathwater just because it's not perfect, because there is no perfect solution to any of these problems. We're gonna muddle our way through like we always do,

0 (1h 2m 9s):
Is now when you look at the positive aspects of all these different schools of thought, and you look at progressivism, which is the one that is probably the most on the rise today, right? Why is it the most on the rise? Like what do you think when you say you look at

4 (1h 2m 27s):
Both sides, you might say that you can see each of these worldviews comes out of the previous worldview. So if you go back 200 years ago, 250 years ago, the modernist worldview was just being born. The, the founding fathers of our country were early modernists people like Franklin and Jefferson and Madison and Hamilton. These were early modernists, but almost everybody else was a traditionalist. And, but we created the foundation to create really the world's first modern society, which was the United States. Now progressivism in a way is a reaction to the disasters of modernism. Like the modernism does have environ negative environmental impacts.

4 (1h 3m 9s):
And so part of is we have to solve those problems. And so progressivism is partly a solving that problem. Things like racism and sexism and homophobia or whatever. These are also aspects that Progressive is reacting to, to say that this is not fair. This is not just, so the, the really beautiful thing about progressivism is that it's striving to give dignity to all these different sort of marginalized people that were always, you know, used to get beat up when they were young, so to speak, in a, in a, in a more modernistic traditional society.

4 (1h 3m 49s):
The problem is, is that when you begin to force your values on everybody else, then, then we begin to get a lot of blow back on that. And that's true for progressivism as well. It needs to harmonize with traditionalism and modernism and not treat those as the enemies that must be conquered.

0 (1h 4m 7s):
The things that progressivism what the things that resonate with a lot of people is the uplifting of the impoverished, right? The, the education in poor communities where the, traditionally the education has been substandard. All all these different things that I think for whatever reason our government or our society has, we've aired there's a problem in not, not, not dealing with those, those issues.

4 (1h 4m 38s):
So I would, I would take a little different interpretation actually. Modernism is dealing with it. Modernism has been lifting humanity up as I argued earlier in those.

0 (1h 4m 46s):
Okay. But it's not, it's not, but

4 (1h 4m 48s):
It's not

0 (1h 4m 48s):
Done a great job

4 (1h 4m 49s):
Evidence. It's, it's actually done a very good job, but it hasn't, it hasn't finished the job. So progressivism is correct to recognize that there's some people being left out that the, the rising tide is not lifted all the boats. What about those that are being left behind? What about them? They're absolutely right. We need to take care of them. We need to find solutions to their problems. But it's not by throwing modernism out, right? It's not, it's by taking modernism and then and then adding on a greater sensitivity for those who are downtrodden, who are, who are, who have bad educational systems.

0 (1h 5m 20s):
This is where you can take some of the good aspects Exactly. Of progressive. Exactly,

4 (1h 5m 24s):
Exactly.

0 (1h 5m 25s):
These are the aspects that I identify with

4 (1h 5m 27s):
As do I.

0 (1h 5m 28s):
Yeah. So the ideas of progressivism when it comes to dealing with impoverished communities, dealing with crime ridden communities and coming up with strategies to help the people that are stuck in those spots.

4 (1h 5m 42s):
Right? Exactly.

0 (1h 5m 43s):
Yeah. That if you take away that once, once that gets, starts getting implemented on a wide scale, then a lot of the arguments against capitalism are start to fade.

4 (1h 5m 55s):
Hints. Conscious capitalism. Is that

0 (1h 5m 57s):
In your book right

4 (1h 5m 57s):
Here? Yes, exactly. That's capital. Exactly what it's about Right here

0 (1h 6m 0s):
By John

4 (1h 6m 1s):
Mackey and Rod available,

0 (1h 6m 2s):
Available on Amazon

4 (1h 6m 4s):
And at Whole Foods.

0 (1h 6m 5s):
Well you can get it at Whole Foods,

4 (1h 6m 7s):
Probably Barnes and Noble Food,

0 (1h 6m 7s):
I'm sure. Dealing with this debate and dealing with this argument. Has anyone or have just having these conversations over long periods of time, like I know you have, has this shaped your perspective in any way, like having to formulate these very clear arguments? Of course. Yeah.

4 (1h 6m 30s):
I mean, you can't really think clearly, at least I think dialectically Joe, I need pushback. I need a devil's advocate because

0 (1h 6m 41s):
I'm always around, bro. Okay,

4 (1h 6m 43s):
Well you're apparently you're not always around. You're travel a lot.

0 (1h 6m 46s):
I haven't been traveling that much, but,

4 (1h 6m 48s):
But, but you need

0 (1h 6m 49s):
A real devil's advocate, not

4 (1h 6m 50s):
Knuckle. Well, your ideas need to stand the test of, of being Yes. Struggled with,

0 (1h 6m 55s):
Right. That's a real problem with people that don't want to hear the other perspective

4 (1h 6m 59s):
We're stuck in. That's your social dilemma issue. Yes. When we get stuck in an echo chamber, if we only, if you're, if you're a traditionalist and you only watch Fox News for example, then you're not gonna get a wider perspective. But if you're progressive and you only read the New York Times and watch CNN and msnbc, you may not be getting a, a wider perspective either. We need to expose ourselves to the wider context of information that's out there.

0 (1h 7m 22s):
That is a philosophy that I think should be taught in school that is as important as mathematics and history. There's a, there's a thing about challenging ideas and looking at your own ideas in a way, in an objective way. I, I think one of the things that I've worked very hard at doing is not being married to any of the ideas that I have in my head and that I don't, they're not mine. They're an idea. And even though I've spouse these ideas, even though I've defended these ideas, if something comes along that shows me that this idea is flawed or inaccurate, I have made a very pos a very conscious, positive effort to abandon those ideas.

0 (1h 8m 6s):
So do I or reexamine them.

4 (1h 8m 8s):
I've got a metaphor for it that you, you I'm happy to loan it to. Okay. You can have it too. It's like ideas are like, I've got clothes on here today, but they're not who I am. I'm just wearing them today. Right. And, and I'll put these aside and I'll wear different clothes tomorrow. They're, the clothes are not me and the ideas and beliefs I have are not me either. Right. When, when they don't fit any longer, I set them aside and I get new clothes that fit better. That, and, and it's, that's a, that's a very liberating way to think about your beliefs and your ideas because otherwise, if you identify yourself with what you believe that means if somebody criticizes one of your beliefs, many people take it as a personal attack that somehow they're, they're saying, I don't have worth because they disagree with my views.

4 (1h 8m 51s):
No, they're just saying they don't like the clothes that you're wearing. Yeah. But that's not who you are. So I'm not my beliefs, they are just what I'm wearing for right now.

0 (1h 9m 0s):
That's an interesting way of looking at it. And I think there is a real problem with people looking at people's ideas and judging them and their value as a human being based on those ideas. But we do it because most people are married to, to their ideas and we're taught to defend our ideas to the death. That these ideas are core to who you are as a person, that they're core to how you identify how you think of yourself.

4 (1h 9m 24s):
It's like the matrix. You gotta free your mind. Yeah.

0 (1h 9m 27s):
Free

4 (1h 9m 27s):
Your mind.

0 (1h 9m 28s):
Well, there's, it's very freeing in, in being able to recognize you're wrong and say you're wrong. It's very, it's very freeing. It is. And we resist it, but when you resist it and you know you're wrong, you feel like a loser like inside your head, you know, you're full of shit.

4 (1h 9m 44s):
You know, I don't, I don't experience it that way. So one of the things I try to do as CEO Whole Foods market is I always try to admit my mistakes in a very public way because I feel like that helps everybody else admit their own mistakes. Yeah. And I'll just say, you know, I was wrong about that. I made a mistake, I'm sorry about that. And because then if you admit you made a mistake, you can learn from it. You don't have to make the same mistake again. And it also gives everybody permission. If, hey, if John is gonna admit his mistakes, then I can admit my mistakes too. And you have a much more open dialogue with people. Nobody's seen as infallible as all knowing is never right. Always right, never wrong.

0 (1h 10m 21s):
Yeah. That's a great philosophy. It's very important. I mean, nobody wants a, a dictator that they have to walk on eggshells around and, you know, they have to pretend that this person is only making good decisions. When you think that, I mean, that's the argument against Donald Trump, right? I mean, never says he's wrong, never admits he's wrong, doesn't show any empathy. I'm not

4 (1h 10m 39s):
Gonna defend Trump. How dare you? I will merely say that which presidents in our lifetime ever admit they made any mistakes. I just, that's just not something I see politicians do very often.

0 (1h 10m 49s):
Well, governor Newsom made the mistake when he went to that restaurant and he admitted it when he got busted.

4 (1h 10m 54s):
Well, only when he got busted and he couldn't, he couldn't deny your own eye. Who gonna believe what he, what I say are your own eyes? So, well

0 (1h 11m 1s):
Then he lied though. Yeah. He said he was outside. Right. He didn't anticipate photos coming out after he gave that

4 (1h 11m 9s):
And he didn't know how many people were gonna be there. Yeah. And he says, I should have just turned around right then and there. So

0 (1h 11m 14s):
Bitch, you knew who I was gonna be there.

4 (1h 11m 16s):
Yeah. But who knows, who

0 (1h 11m 18s):
Knows his buddy.

4 (1h 11m 19s):
I guess when you're caught red-handed, it's hard to continue to, well,

0 (1h 11m 22s):
Look, I'm not the governor, but if someone says we're having a

4 (1h 11m 26s):
Party Rogan for governor, I think that's a great idea. I

0 (1h 11m 28s):
Like our governor. I like Governor Abbot. It's

4 (1h 11m 30s):
Good. I like, I like Governor Evans too.

0 (1h 11m 32s):
When you go to a party, if someone says, we're gonna have a party over my house during times of Covid, I'd be like, how many people are gonna be there? That'd be like one of the first questions I ask. Like, I don't, I don't wanna go to a party where there's 500 people and I don't know anybody. Of course not breathing everybody's funky air. I would ask that. And I'm not even the governor, I'm not even telling people you have to close their businesses. And I would ask that, forget about looking hypocritical just for my own health.

4 (1h 11m 58s):
You know, the, the Newsom example though is a, is a kind of a personal example. You know, we always are quick to point out hypocrisy in people. Sure. But I'm saying that very seldom do you ever see a, a a, a politician or a president or a senator or governor admit they made a policy mistake. Right. So you don't see Governor Cuomo in New York saying that, gosh, I should never sent those people to the nursing homes. No, it really made a mistake on that. Good

0 (1h 12m 21s):
Point.

4 (1h 12m 22s):
We don't see the obvious mistakes ever admitted. Don't

0 (1h 12m 25s):
You think that in that situation there would be a legal problem? Because if he did admit that that's a mistake publicly, they would probably sue this shit outta him. And you're talking about they could

4 (1h 12m 36s):
Still sue him whether he admitted or not, because,

0 (1h 12m 39s):
But they would have the evidence, they would have his own, his own testimony publicly that he made a mistake. You would not be able to argue against that look clear. I think we both agree. Good point. Clearly he made a mistake. That's a giant mistake and it's responsible for thousands of deaths.

4 (1h 12m 55s):
Yeah.

0 (1h 12m 56s):
I mean, it's gonna hard, it's hard to argue that you take people that are covid positive, you send 'em to a nursing home where folks are older and their immune systems are compromised and a lot of them die. I mean, I don't know what number died, but I know that there have been reports in places where there have been covid deaths where an enormous percentage of them were in nursing homes, like more than 20%.

4 (1h 13m 18s):
Oh no, no, Joe, I think it's over 50%. The United States are close to it and I I mean 95% have comorbidities. Right. So, and

0 (1h 13m 26s):
And you imagine being in that situation where you're an older person and you're just like trying to ride out your last days. Yeah. And the governor sends sick people back to the nursing home and you realize that Mary down the hall is coughing up a fucking storm now.

4 (1h 13m 41s):
Yeah. I mean, I, we're way out of where I'm kind of a little bit outta my comfort zone. That's

0 (1h 13m 47s):
What I like to

4 (1h 13m 47s):
Do to people I know, but we don't know what really, what what the governor might have been thinking. I'm I I believe his intentions were probably good. He was very worried they were gonna be, oh, they were gonna have too many cases. They weren't gonna have enough hospital beds for it.

0 (1h 13m 58s):
Yeah, no, I'm sure it,

4 (1h 13m 59s):
It's probably a mistake. But it was, it was, it was made with good intentions. And I don't think it was made with bad intentions to hurt people.

0 (1h 14m 7s):
I don't think so either. I don't think he did it to try to kill old people.

4 (1h 14m 10s):
Exactly.

0 (1h 14m 10s):
That's what point, I think he just, just made an error. He

4 (1h 14m 12s):
Was actually trying to save lives. He just made a mistake. And it's also, and people make mistakes

0 (1h 14m 16s):
When you're in a situation like that where there's not much you can do when you are stuck. You know, I was talking to a nurse and she was explaining to me, and she's a nurse in a covid ward, and she was explaining to me the decisions that they have to make. She's like, during like the peak when, when it was, you know, all the beds were full, she's like, we really were in situations where we're like, we have to send this person home and they're going to die and there's no room for, for new people to come in. So we literally have to send, we have to take people that are terminal

4 (1h 14m 50s):
Triage.

0 (1h 14m 51s):
Yeah. There's not much you could do. And I go, well, what it, how do you protect their family from getting it? She's like, you can't. I'm like, oh my God. So you're, you're sending people who are dying of Covid home and they were likely going to infect their family. You know, you tell their family, take all the precautions they can, but if you have to do it, you have to do it. That's when you're in a situation where there's no good answers,

4 (1h 15m 15s):
That's not a win-win. Right.

0 (1h 15m 17s):
Yeah. That's not a win-win win either. Nope. Yeah. It's, it's hugely unfortunate, but it's also unprecedented, right? Like when Mario Cuomo became governor, or Andrew Cuomo rather became governor, he didn't think that this was something that he was gonna have to encounter. He probably had strategies in play for economic growth, for, you know, dealing with law enforcement, all these different problems that a governor would face, taxes, all these different things. He probably never thought, oh, there might be a thing that kills all these old people if I send them back to nursing homes.

4 (1h 15m 49s):
I'm sure there was not a plan for it.

0 (1h 15m 51s):
No. Well, that's one thing about this. That's

4 (1h 15m 54s):
Why I never want to be Governor Joe.

0 (1h 15m 55s):
Please don't. Everybody will hate you. Think they hate you when you became successful with whole paycheck is Wait, wait till, you know,

4 (1h 16m 3s):
Wait till I'm governor.

0 (1h 16m 4s):
Yeah. Oh my God. Well, and then if you become president, it's even worse then. No. Literally half the country hates you. Oh,

4 (1h 16m 10s):
Look how many people are trying to kill you.

0 (1h 16m 12s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 16m 12s):
I don't, as far as I know, I don't have anybody trying to kill me.

0 (1h 16m 14s):
Congratulations. At this time. Probably like one butcher. It's thinking this motherfucker.

4 (1h 16m 18s):
No, just kidding.

0 (1h 16m 19s):
You're, you're, you're time, time doing this. Your time spent, like as a, a leader, as a, you know, do, do you understand better the, the pitfalls of these leaders because of the fact that you Yeah, sure. You've been a leader of a corporation.

4 (1h 16m 36s):
Absolutely. Absolutely. You just have a lot of responsibility and if you're a leader, you're also being paid to make good decisions. And if you make good decisions, a lot of people benefit. And if you make bad decisions, a lot of people might suffer. So you gotta have a high batting average here, Joe. You can't, you, you're gonna make a few mistakes, but you, you make those mistakes hopefully at a smaller level, not at the biggest level. And I've made plenty of mistakes at Whole Foods, and one of the reasons I've been successful is I've just learned from a lot of my mistakes. As I say, I have a lot of scars and, but they've made me better too.

0 (1h 17m 16s):
Now, when you do have these very strong ethics and morals that you operate your company by, but you're also, you, you're incentivized by profit, do you make a conscious effort to explain or to espouse these ideas to the people that are working for you and work absolutely

4 (1h 17m 35s):
With you? We do. I mean, our quality standards, our core values, our higher purpose, these are all, we actually have a program in Whole Foods and now called Cultural Champions where people go through a program and get certified to be a cultural champion. And, and it's very important because, I mean, we have a hundred thousand people working for Whole Foods and every year we're hiring 10 to 20,000 new people. Woo. Exactly. And so they're not gonna know the purpose, they're not gonna know the core values, they're not gonna know what the company's about or even they're not gonna know the history. You have to help, you have to continually educate and teach people who you are, what you stand for, otherwise it's gonna disappear.

0 (1h 18m 14s):
One thing you guys have done, and I don't know how you did it, a lot of people there are friendly, like how have you done that? Like in Boulder, I found people to be friendly. I found people to be friendly in Park City, Utah. I found people to be friendly in Los Angeles, in the valley, in the city. Like you've got a lot of friendly employees. Like is this something that's been like a core tenant of, of the business? It

4 (1h 18m 37s):
Is. It's, it's one of our core values. We call it team member growth and happiness. We actually want our people working for us to be happy. And I'll tell you what I've learned, there's two things that people want at work above all else. I mean, they wanna earn a paycheck too. But besides, if you take, if you get the money right, there's two things that people want will, which will make them long-term committed to your organization. The first one is everybody wants to have a sense of purpose. They wanna feel like their work is actually contributing. It's, you know, they're not just making widgets, they're doing something that's actually creating value for other people. Purpose matters. And secondly, they want to feel like somebody gives a shit about 'em.

4 (1h 19m 17s):
That, that they're cared for, that they're that. And if you do those two things, if you give people purpose and love, then you're giving them probably the two things they most desire in life is purpose and love. And we try to do that at Whole Foods. And to the degree people are friendly, it's partly because they're experiencing both of those, or at least one of them.

0 (1h 19m 39s):
What's great about that to me is that because your business has been so successful and it's such a popular spot for people and people are very aware that it's like that, my hope is that this is gonna be contagious and that other businesses are gonna go, you know, we are gonna follow the Whole Foods model and we are going to create an environment where it's family, people are loved, they're cared for, and then the people that come there, we want them to be appreciated. We want everybody who works for us to be happy that they have a job here, feel like they belong, feel like they're doing something good.

4 (1h 20m 14s):
I absolutely agree. The second chapter of our book, conscious Leadership is Lead with love. Love is something that we don't think about in our corporations and we have these sort of hyper-competitive models, mental models about the way the world works. They're war metaphors, kill or be killed. We're gonna, let's go to the war room, let's, let's create our campaign. Let's go motivate the troops. We're using war metaphors or we're using Darwinian metaphors. This is survival of the fittest. It's a jungle out there, only the paranoid survive. Or they are sports metaphors where we're winners, losers. And winning isn't everything.

4 (1h 20m 54s):
It's the only thing we, we've got this idea of hyper competition and when you're at war, there really isn't any place for love. I mean love, check it at the door cuz we got a war to fight we'll after that. So do that in your, in your personal life. And, and we're and love though the love, I don't mean romantic love, I don't mean sexual love. I mean the love that you feel towards the people you're working with, the people that you're serving, your customers that can't, that that's part of the most important part of being a human being. We have to bring that part with us to work. It ha can't hide out in the closet. We have to be able to connect with people. And that's one of the great things that we need to have happen in corporations.

4 (1h 21m 36s):
If you're asking how can we make corporations better? Cindy Powell's talking about Release the Kraken. I'd say, is that what she said? That's what she's been saying. I would say, let's release love, let's let love outta the closet. Let's let love be what we build our organizations around. It's so much better way to live.

0 (1h 21m 56s):
The only argument I would say against that would be that you don't love your competitors. You're out there to kick their ass. Right? If you are playing on a team and you're supposed to go up against another team, you want to be as amped, up as aggressive, as motivated, and as focused on victory as possible. That's why so many corporations adopt these sports metaphors. Right?

4 (1h 22m 22s):
Yeah. But that's the reality is that's, it's not that competition's not part of corporations or business. It is, is it the main part? It actually isn't. The main part is about creating value for customers. That's why the business exists. Competitors. And you, I never hated any of my competitors. I mean, I, I always saw my competitors as people that could teach me things, the things they were doing better than Whole Foods was doing. Like we, one of the best competitors Whole Foods competes against anywhere in the whole world is is h e here in Texas. Very very good competitor. And we've learned a lot from heb. They've made us better as a company. And the wording,

0 (1h 23m 1s):
What'd you learn from heb?

4 (1h 23m 4s):
What have we learned from heb? If I was to be specific about

0 (1h 23m 6s):
It, how to hire sketchy late night counter people? No,

4 (1h 23m 9s):
They, no. Well, HEB opened up a concept called Central Market and that was back in the early 1990s. And it was a, took a lot of Whole Foods as ideas and expanded and made 'em bigger stores. So one thing I learned from HEB was to do bigger stores and, and we started getting progressively bigger stores.

0 (1h 23m 28s):
Those central market joints are pretty nice. They

4 (1h 23m 31s):
Are, they're, they're a worthy competitor. And so our competitors can be our allies in the sense that they help us improve how if you don't have a good competitor and then you're not gonna be pushed. Look, take one of my favorite sports tennis. We happen to be blessed with possibly the three greatest tennis players of all time playing at the same exact time. Roger Federer, Roth Nadal and No, no Novik Djokovic and 2020 and 18 Masters or Grand Slam Championships. Those three guys are the top three of all time in Grand Slam championships. If, if they didn't have the other two, they wouldn't be the same player they turned out to be.

4 (1h 24m 14s):
Right. Because that pushed them to get better and better and better. And by the way, that is the beauty of capitalism versus socialism. There is competition, there is innovation that's occurring that you have to, you have to stay on top of. You have to incorporate yourself and then you have to challenge to out-innovate the other people to stay ahead, so to speak. And socialism doesn't have that incentive to innovate and that's why it stagnates in the long run. So competition's part of business. I don't want to say it's not there, it's just not the most important part. It's not, it shouldn't dominate everything else. It has its place, but it shouldn't be the the be all reality of business

0 (1h 24m 55s):
End all be all. Yeah. And all be all. I understand what you're saying and I, I agree with you in terms of competition, obviously, you know, I come from a martial arts background and that's everything. If you don't have people in the gym that are better than you, you will not get better. You, you don't want to be the man. Like you want to be surrounded by other people that are better than you. It's almost always the best way to improve and grow because you have a, a metric to gauge yourself by.

4 (1h 25m 20s):
You can compare against them and you also can study them. Yes. What, you know, how are they doing that? How are they doing that sidekick that Well

0 (1h 25m 28s):
One of the things

4 (1h 25m 28s):
Keeps hitting

0 (1h 25m 29s):
Me. They show you one of the beautiful things about martial arts. It's always been the case. Martial artists are very open collaborative. Yes. Very collaborative. Because that's taught like from the beginning, particularly in jujitsu. In jujitsu, it's, there's no secrets. Like everyone is trying to show you what they're doing. Like one of my best friends is Eddie Bravo, who's a world-renowned jujitsu instructor and competitor. And he, he's like, I am teaching my students how to beat me. He goes, I'm getting these younger, faster, stronger people and I'm showing them all my, my tricks. And that makes me stay one step ahead. And this is like, this is the philosophy of martial arts.

0 (1h 26m 10s):
It's very, you, you never want to have no competition. That's a terrible place to be.

4 (1h 26m 14s):
It's the philosophy of excellence. Yeah. And excellence is a big part of corporations and it's a big part of capitalism.

0 (1h 26m 20s):
Yeah. It's a big part of everything. But when you actually go to a competition, you wanna smash that person. You don't wanna love them.

4 (1h 26m 27s):
Yeah. But you may be loving 'em after the competition. Yes. Might be your best friend. I mean Sure. It's a friendly competition. You're not literally trying to kill them. Right. You're not really wanting to, to, to, for them to crack their head and they never get up again.

0 (1h 26m 40s):
This is a concept, this concept that we're describing, whether it applies to martial arts or to business, that a socialist would've a very difficult time grasping that you can both be loving and ultra competitive. And that these things are not mutually exclusive. And in fact they help, it helps. They

4 (1h 26m 57s):
Are yin and yang. Yeah. They, they, they, they work well together.

0 (1h 27m 1s):
So this is, if I'm, I'm gonna put words in your mouth. This is probably one of the things that frustrates you the most about these ideas, these progressive ideas, is that they, when they apply them to business, they don't really understand business. They

4 (1h 27m 15s):
Don't work. Yes. They don't work. That's the problem. And, and, and that is the disaster of progressivism. You mean

0 (1h 27m 22s):
The people don't work or the ideas don't work? The

4 (1h 27m 24s):
Ideas don't work. The ideas don't work. But the ideas are f a great example is collective agriculture. You know, we're gonna put everybody, we're not gonna do individual farming plots. We're gonna, China almost put it starved itself to death. And you had millions and millions of people die from starvation by collectivizing the agriculture, even though the Soviet Union had already failed to do it. So China did it. And they forced all the people to collectivize their agriculture. And the des the result was terrible idea cuz they didn't have the incentives that were there any longer to try to optimize their production. And as a result, starvation, mass starvation occurred until China wised up. They had finally some communists said, let's let them own at least a small little plot themselves that they get to keep what they produce for their families.

4 (1h 28m 12s):
And that proved to be so productive. It gradually took over the entire agriculture. They went back to capitalism in agriculture in China. So,

0 (1h 28m 21s):
Well wasn't that the issue with the, the colonists as well in, in America, when they first started growing wheat, they combined all their food together and then they realized like, hey, this is not working. Like we have to make people earn their own.

4 (1h 28m 34s):
You know, here, I think one of the reasons this idea will always be there, Joe, is that's how we operate our families, right. When we're growing up, we're just small kids. The family shares, right? And you're, you're, and then we ask when we get older, why can't we make the whole society like the family? And the answer is because it's too damn big to do it that way. And when you try to do it that way, you get, you get the slackers and the people who don't want to work being parasites on the others and you end up with a free writer problem. And ultimately that's the problem with socialism is a free writer problem that they've never been able to solve for except through coercion and putting people in labor camps and things like turn 'em into slaves.

4 (1h 29m 15s):
So they can't solve that problem except by, by, by sort of super coercion. And that's why it doesn't work. Why it's never gonna work. And why capitalism with all its flaws is a system that does work that we can make better, we can make more conscious, we can do it better than we're doing it today.

0 (1h 29m 32s):
What do you think about the concept of universal basic income?

4 (1h 29m 37s):
Yeah, I, you know No, I mean I don't think that's a good idea.

0 (1h 29m 42s):
But when you have a situation like a pandemic where so many people through no fault of their own are being forced out of work, they cannot work. That's that

4 (1h 29m 53s):
Temporary situation.

0 (1h 29m 54s):
But isn't that a good argument for universal basic income? At least for a temporary situation?

4 (1h 29m 60s):
Well, when people are sick, they need to be taken care of. When they're healthy, they don't need to be taken care of. They need to stand on their own two feet.

0 (1h 30m 6s):
Right. But when you have a situation where they can't stand on their own two feet because they're literally not allowed to work like California. I mean California, they're, they're just, they're right now shutting down restaurants that g serve outside. Yeah.

4 (1h 30m 20s):
Well I mean the, the alternative is not to shut down the economy. Yes.

0 (1h 30m 26s):
No listen, I agree. But there's a lot of people that they get really hysterical about this and they think this is the only way we're gonna save people. There's a lot of people out there with terrible health and they think that what we need to do is shut everything down and that's the only way we're gonna be safe. I was reading this woman's Twitter the other day. I just, someone said something ridiculous and I'm like, oh my God, I need to check this person out. And they were talking about, hey, you know, I am ready to lock everything down for five weeks. I don't go outside. I stay away from everybody. I order my, my groceries delivered. I'm ready to lock down for five weeks. I'm like, this is the most simplistic and individual perception of this problem that you, everyone should do what you're capable of doing.

0 (1h 31m 12s):
That most people can't do this if they have a fucking business. Like they can't, I'm ready to lock down for five weeks. Well congratulations to you, but some guy who runs some whatever, figure out whatever store it is or whatever kind of business they need to be there in order to be open, to stay a, to stay alive. There's no other way to keep that business alive. They have rent, they have overhead, they have, they have employees.

4 (1h 31m 36s):
Do you know, you know the history of the 19 18, 19 19 influenza epidemic? Yes. That's the worst pandemic that we know of in our modern history. And that's only a hundred years ago. And 50 million people died worldwide. I mean, how many people died worldwide in covid? A couple million at this point. And the population was four times greater then they didn't shut anything down back then.

0 (1h 32m 0s):
What do you mean the population was four times greater than,

4 (1h 32m 2s):
No, it's four times greater now. Yes. Than then it was one 25%. It was 1.8 billion people back a hundred years ago across the world.

0 (1h 32m 9s):
So you could scale that up pretty, pretty largely.

4 (1h 32m 12s):
Yeah, exactly. And that was the killer That didn't just take people with comorbidities. It took children, it took healthy adults. It, it was non-discriminatory disease. And we took precautions, people, you know, social distanced and, but at the end of the day, the economy did not shut down. Humanity went on with their lives. And this is not nearly the same type of pandemic that we had back then. It's, it's very interesting the time that we live and the reaction that we're having today to covid being so very different than the reaction we had to the influenza epidemic of 1918 and 1919, which was far more destructive.

4 (1h 32m 54s):
It's, it's, I dunno, it's just food for thought. It's very interesting.

0 (1h 32m 56s):
Well, what was the difference, what's the difference in the reaction of today versus the reaction from 1918?

4 (1h 33m 1s):
The reaction back then was individual responsibility to, to do what was necessary to protect yourself and your family. But other than that, life went on and there was no governmental, not nearly the same level of

0 (1h 33m 19s):
They had mask mandates though, didn't they?

4 (1h 33m 21s):
If you, if you go back and read about it, that not any kind of national type of mask mandate, certain small communities did it. And it was just all so much smaller in scale. I

0 (1h 33m 33s):
Didn't even know they wore masks. We've been looking at it cuz we've looking at a lot of photos from Yeah. Back in the day. It's kind of crazy to see.

4 (1h 33m 40s):
Cause they did. Yeah. And I mean people were scared and they wanted to protect theirselves and their family and they did what they thought was necessary. Yeah. It's just interesting how much different we're reacting to this one to me. And we are, we are doing great, great harm and we don't see the harm that we're doing. We don't see the small businesses failing. The suicide rates going up, the domestic violence, the isolation, the mental or emotional health problems people have by not being able to connect with each other. Not being able to physically touch Yeah. The kids that are are missing out in school and in person that speaking as, as a, as a man who was once a little boy, little boys need to, they need to play, they also need to connect.

4 (1h 34m 21s):
They need to, they need, they can't just watch a screen.

0 (1h 34m 25s):
Yeah. Kids I have of,

4 (1h 34m 27s):
They need to be more interactive.

0 (1h 34m 28s):
Two kids in school right now and it's soul sucking, watching them stare at a laptop. Yeah. And then I sat in, in my daughter's room once and watched the teacher teach the class and Jesus Christ, this lady could have not been less motivated. It was horrible to watch. Yeah. Motivating or motivated. They're, they're, they're lazy. We're

4 (1h 34m 47s):
Hoping hopefully these vaccinations are, are gonna be as effective as they're reporting and will not have side effects. And that, that a year from now will be, this will be in the rear view mirror.

0 (1h 34m 57s):
Are you gonna wait, are you gonna dive right in? What if Jeff Bezos calls you up and says, Hey John, I got the, I got the vaccine right here buddy. Not come over.

4 (1h 35m 6s):
You know, I haven't decided yet. I've had to do four covid tests, including one today to get in here. You only

0 (1h 35m 11s):
Had four.

4 (1h 35m 12s):
How many of you had, oh my god,

0 (1h 35m 13s):
I don't even know.

4 (1h 35m 14s):
Well you, you do it every time you come in here I

0 (1h 35m 16s):
Guess, right? Yeah. It's, we were trying to figure it out. I remember I counted like 50 something of 'em. But you've

4 (1h 35m 22s):
Done over 50 tests. Oh, way more than that. Yeah. So you'll be an early adapter of the, of the vaccination just so you don't have to do the damn test anymore.

0 (1h 35m 30s):
I wanna wait and see what's going on. But if, if it's proven that it doesn't have any side effects and how the fuck are you gonna do that?

4 (1h 35m 36s):
It might take a few years to know that for sure.

0 (1h 35m 38s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 35m 39s):
Can you wait?

0 (1h 35m 40s):
I don't know man. It's like

4 (1h 35m 42s):
I'm, I'm kind of a vaccination guy to be honest. Like I've as well, I've had all the vaccinations I have as well. You can imagine. I think that

0 (1h 35m 49s):
No, listen, here's the thing about vaccines, man. Like if you even have a conversation about vaccines, people get their hackles up. What are you about to say? What are you saying? Are you an anti-vaxxer? Not an anti-vaxxer by any stretch of the imagination. I've been vaccinated, my children have been vaccinated. I believe in vaccines. I believe vaccines are the reason why we don't have smallpox. Right. Why we don't have polio. When I hear about measles cases rising, I get angry cuz these fucking hippies don't want to vaccinate their kids and they send them to school with other people's kids. And these people get fucking measles. It's, it's, and for adults it's dangerous. Right. Look, measles is a creepy disease.

0 (1h 36m 29s):
I believe in vaccines. However, I believe that this is a new thing.

4 (1h 36m 35s):
Did you have measles?

0 (1h 36m 37s):
I don't think I ever got the

4 (1h 36m 38s):
Measles. Cause I'm older than you. I had measles. I don't know if I had, I had, I had all those diseases as cause there were novac, I had chickenpox, I had measles. Yeah. I had almost all that stuff. I mean, when I was a kid, there was no polio vaccination. Oh my god. I know. So when, when polio was running around in the community, they'd closed the swimming pools down. Yeah. That's when my mother would not let us go out and play for a while.

0 (1h 36m 60s):
Polio is a, an excellent example why vaccines are so important. Exactly. Because it was a terrifying disease that destroyed people and permanently. I know. And when I was a kid we would, when when someone have chickenpox, they would bring kids to that person's house. So you would get chickenpox because if you get chickenpox as a young kid, it's better than if you get chickenpox as an adult. Right. I do not know why. Right. But they would, they would encourage kids to get chickenpox. So you build up an immunity to it.

4 (1h 37m 27s):
Yeah. My wife had shingles recently, so I went and got a shingles vaccination. Oh

0 (1h 37m 31s):
My goodness. Yeah. That's supposed to be horrible. That's really

4 (1h 37m 33s):
Painful

0 (1h 37m 34s):
Stuff,

4 (1h 37m 34s):
Right? It was

0 (1h 37m 35s):
Horrible. Yeah. Listen, I believe in vaccines, but I also believe that you're

4 (1h 37m 40s):
Not gonna be a Guinea pig.

0 (1h 37m 41s):
No. But there's people that have already done that. There's brave folks that have already decided to get shot up.

4 (1h 37m 46s):
Yeah. But you want your friends to do it and you want your friends to say, I did it and I feel fine. Everything's great.

0 (1h 37m 50s):
I'm no, I don't want that either. What do you want? I want them to assure me that it's not going to be devastating in terms of the side effects. I would hate to have encouraged people to take something and then find out two years from now that there's some residual side effect That's devastating. Some neurological thing.

4 (1h 38m 10s):
Your liver is starting to fail. Who knows

0 (1h 38m 12s):
What it could be. And the way it's been described to me, that won't be the case. The way it's been described to me by doctors is that's an unfound fear because of what this is a, a messenger RNA vaccine. Right. That this is not the type of vaccine that you, it's just essentially delivering your body this sort of message that encoded with a common cold virus. That what it does is it makes your body develop the proteins to fight off the disease and give you,

4 (1h 38m 42s):
It sounds like these are vaccination breakthroughs. Yes. Yeah. It might transform vaccinations in the future. I hope so.

0 (1h 38m 47s):
Listen, I hope so too. Look, I, I think modern medicine is amazing. I do worry about stuff though. Look, I, you know, I don't, I don't want to make a mistake and I don't think you do either. And when it comes to,

4 (1h 38m 60s):
I already admitted making lots of mistakes, but this is not one I want to add to my repertoire. Right. When

0 (1h 39m 3s):
It comes to this virus though, it's so difficult to be confident one way or another. Like if it was a virus that just, you go, oh, you'll, you'll survive 99 point whatever percent of people survive, you're gonna be fine. There's people that are these, this is what what gets me these long haulers? Covid long haulers who have like serious, like there's a guy named Cody Garbrandt, he's a former Banon way champion of the ufc. He got Covid in August. He's a young stud, he's a healthy guy, like a top flight mixed martial arts fighter. And he has had blood clots. He's had like some serious problems and fatigue and still bothering him to this day.

0 (1h 39m 45s):
He was supposed to compete last weekend, just this past weekend. He's supposed to fight for the Flyweight title and he could not, he couldn't make the card. So they got a replacement for him. But it's because of Covid. If you wanna look at like young, healthy people, that is one of the best examples you're ever gonna get of a young healthy person. He's a, a, a professional cage fighter. I mean, he's really fucking healthy. But Covid has done a number on him. Like he's got like some pretty serious issues. Yeah.

4 (1h 40m 13s):
I, and certainly I don't want to get covid myself, but the reality is pretty much you could have anecdotes for any type of disease. It's somebody that had a bad reaction to that disease. Yeah.

0 (1h 40m 23s):
But that's a rare one. Right. Blood clots and all this, the stuff that people are fatigued months and months later. For a coronavirus that is, it's unusual. And that's the problem is that this, well this disease has so many unknowns to it. It's, there's so many mysteries, so many people get it and they don't even know they had it.

4 (1h 40m 42s):
So it, it seems now that, you know, mono, which a lot of people get when they're teenagers, it turns out that that's connection to Epstein bar. So I know people that had mono when they were kids or teenagers and now as adults, they have this Epstein bar, which is attacking their thyroid. So that virus never went away. It's still there. It's still affecting them. And it's the reality of, of existence. There are all these viruses out there. I mean like, I think a gallon of, of seawater has 10 billion viruses in it. I mean it's, it's, we live in a universe of viruses and 10 billion.

0 (1h 41m 24s):
Yeah. And a

4 (1h 41m 24s):
Gallon, I think it's even less than a gallon. Isn't that extraordinary? Viruses are real little. Those mass people wear those viruses. You know, unless you got the, the n 95 s and plexiglass, chances are that little piece of cloth, there's not really keeping the virus

0 (1h 41m 38s):
Out. That's one of the things that freaks me out. Like when people dive in a lake somewhere and they get some brain eating ameba,

4 (1h 41m 45s):
A

6 (1h 41m 45s):
Surface drop of seawater.

0 (1h 41m 47s):
Not a gallon surface drop.

4 (1h 41m 49s):
One drop's got 10 billion, 10 million, 10 million. That's, well I guess maybe a gallon gallon

0 (1h 41m 53s):
10 billion. If you do, that's

4 (1h 41m 55s):
A lot. That's a lot of viruses. So don't be drinking that seawater a drop

0 (1h 41m 59s):
A 10 million for a fucking drop. What do you do when you get a mouthful of seawater? You just, ugh,

4 (1h 42m 5s):
Here's the good news where we deal with viruses. Yeah. We got amazing immune systems and we've been evol co-evolving with viruses for hundreds of thousands of years. Sure. And guess what, we're co-evolving with Covid now. Yeah.

0 (1h 42m 17s):
Well this has been my frustration the entire time is that there's been no discussion about strengthening your immune system. There's legitimate strategies, including there are eating healthy foods. Yeah. Right. I mean there's legitimate stratas strategies for keeping your body healthy and strong and keeping your immune system strong.

4 (1h 42m 35s):
Absolutely. I mean, it's interesting Joe, because I've watched my friends that during the eight or nine months we've been dealing with this stuff, maybe almost, yeah. Nine months. They tended to go one of two directions. One was to say, you know what, I'm gonna get this. I'm locked down. I'm gonna get super healthy. I'm gonna eat right. I'm gonna exercise, I'm gonna get enough sleep. I'm gonna stop taking as many toxins. And they, they, they got healthier. They lost weight. Their immune system got strong and then had other friends, they were isolated. They felt lonely. Their, their consumption of alcohol went way up, for example. And they, and they gained weight and their immune system is less strong. Yeah. So humans respond differently to stress like this.

4 (1h 43m 18s):
Yeah. I went the route of saying, my best chance to hold off Covid is to get my immune system as strong as possible and went that route.

0 (1h 43m 26s):
Damn well. That's the, that's the right route to go. That's the route You better go if you own Whole Foods.

4 (1h 43m 32s):
Yeah. It's gonna be, I always say that won't be good for my business if I die of a heart attack. Yeah.

0 (1h 43m 37s):
Right.

4 (1h 43m 38s):
At least not for another 20 or five or 30 years. You kind

0 (1h 43m 40s):
Of have to be healthy.

4 (1h 43m 42s):
There'll be a lot of people that will secretly laugh if I do croak from something like that. It's like, see a lifetime of eating all that healthy food. And he died at a young age.

0 (1h 43m 51s):
Do you practice what you preach? Are you a, a, a healthy eater or do you have like a few bad habits?

4 (1h 43m 57s):
I'm, I, I don't think I have any bad habits, but none. I, I don't think I have any bad habits, but I do occasionally indulge myself. But you say, would you indulge it? Habit.

0 (1h 44m 6s):
Oh, okay. Indulge with

4 (1h 44m 9s):
Probably, I mean, occasionally might have a bowl of coconut ice cream.

0 (1h 44m 14s):
That's it. Coconut ice cream. That's how you go. Crazy.

4 (1h 44m 19s):
I didn't say go crazy. I said indulge myself. But in general, I mean, I booze, you know, I'm, I'm, I'm a hundred percent plant-based guy, so, and I eat lots of fruits and I believe that's

0 (1h 44m 29s):
Why you give me that fake cheese. Hmm. You're one of those,

4 (1h 44m 32s):
It's not fake cheese. It's almond cheese.

0 (1h 44m 36s):
I do call it cheese. Cheese, yeah. It's still animals from milk. It's coming from milk.

4 (1h 44m 40s):
Okay. It's coming from animals. And this is almond cheese coming from almonds. Yeah. But that's

0 (1h 44m 45s):
Like almond water or almond milk. Almond milk is not milk.

4 (1h 44m 48s):
It's almond milk. Uhuh,

0 (1h 44m 50s):
It's, no, it's some weird shit you're doing with water and almonds. It has nothing to do with milk. There's no tits on almonds. Come on, bro.

4 (1h 44m 56s):
I, I think you can, if you look it up in a dictionary, you will not see cheese saying it must have tits to be cheese.

0 (1h 45m 4s):
No, but it's a, a milk product. You need to come up with a new name.

4 (1h 45m 9s):
I'm, I'm happy for it to come up with a different name, but yeah.

0 (1h 45m 11s):
Someone needs to come up with a better

4 (1h 45m 12s):
Name. I, I don't believe in the word police language.

0 (1h 45m 15s):
Oh.

4 (1h 45m 16s):
Language evolves sort of organically, so to speak. New words get at it all the time. Right. And I don't believe in the police that are trying to say that word can't be said that way. I

0 (1h 45m 25s):
Understand. So if you are a, a full plant-based guy, you don't need any meat at all. No. Even when you're drunk.

4 (1h 45m 32s):
No.

0 (1h 45m 32s):
I'm, you hesitated. That's what

4 (1h 45m 34s):
People do. Well, if I'm really drunk, I may not remember.

0 (1h 45m 37s):
Well, you know, that's the thing. They say that like 84% of of vegans eat meat when they're drunk. Yeah.

4 (1h 45m 43s):
Did you ever hear the one about, I

0 (1h 45m 44s):
Made that number up.

4 (1h 45m 45s):
I know that 93.6% of the people make up their own statistics.

0 (1h 45m 50s):
I think it's a hundred percent. The, the thing about plant-based diets is you gotta really make sure that you're supplementing correctly. Right. You have to make sure you have a, a good, healthy supply of B12 and all your different, you know,

4 (1h 46m 6s):
I think acid, I think B12 is the only one you really have to worry

0 (1h 46m 8s):
About. The only one. What about amino acids? What about proteins?

4 (1h 46m 12s):
You ever heard anybody being deficient in protein? It's not also calorie deficient.

0 (1h 46m 16s):
Well, by deficient, meaning the reaction to their body. Are their, are their bodies optimized? I would say no. Yeah. I mean, and, and yes, I have seen it because people, they lose body mass. They lose muscle mass. They lose strength and vitality. And I think you probably know that muscle mass and, and body mass strength is directly connected to longevity.

4 (1h 46m 41s):
You have to have enough protein so your body can repair itself, so that if you're lifting weights, you're gonna grow muscles. You have to have enough, you have to have adequate protein stores. But the extra protein, your body has to then go through complicated reactions to convert that into fuel, which actually puts the stress on the kidneys. On average, Americans eat about twice as much protein as they actually need

0 (1h 47m 0s):
You. You talking about glucogenesis, like when you're taking Yeah. Protein and converting it into sugar when you're, that's damaging to the kidneys. Has there been real evidence that shows that

4 (1h 47m 11s):
You can do a search on it?

0 (1h 47m 12s):
Yeah, I have. I don't think there is. It's actually a natural progression when you're eating meat. If you're, like, there's people that are on meat only diets, and they, their body produces its own glucose.

4 (1h 47m 23s):
I mean, I think you'll, I hate to get into debate with you about this.

0 (1h 47m 26s):
You're getting into this weird plant-based debate. Plant-based people get real edgy when you, when you start talking about their diets.

4 (1h 47m 34s):
Oh, I'm not gonna get really edgy about it. Hey, I've got my book there for you. The Whole Foods of Diet. Take a look at it. Oh, take a look at it.

0 (1h 47m 39s):
So you allow plants on this. Where's your steaks,

4 (1h 47m 41s):
Bro? We, we actually allow, in that particular diet, we allow up to 10% of your calories from animals.

0 (1h 47m 46s):
Oh, you allow it. Do you, did you always eat plant-based or did you slowly gravitate towards it?

4 (1h 47m 57s):
I was vegetarian in my early twenties, and then I added fish. And then back in 2003, I became a hundred percent plant-based. But for ethical reasons. I think that's why in the book, the Whole Foods Diet, we allow ethics aside, we think a little bit of animal foods is consistent with good health, primarily based on What about

0 (1h 48m 18s):
Mollusks? You know, one of the things that I've heard about mollusk is they're so primitive. They're actually more primitive than plants.

4 (1h 48m 25s):
I don't know if they're more primitive than plants, but they don't have well-developed nervous systems. So they may not be able to experience pain. Yeah. As we know it. Like, as far as we know plants respond to stimulation, but we don't have any evidence they experience pain.

0 (1h 48m 36s):
Well, the idea is that, so

4 (1h 48m 38s):
Wallace might be consistent with ethical. Yeah. Veganism.

0 (1h 48m 41s):
I've heard that argument said very well in that not only that, but you, you could, they're sustainable. You can harvest them and grow them, and that their, their, their nervous system is set up. So they're, they're moving in some way. Like they close their shells and open their shells, but not in the sense that you wouldn't consider them an animal, but you can get animal protein from them.

4 (1h 49m 4s):
By the way, you're, I really, you're we're talking about things like, to be clear, we're talking about things like clams, clams,

0 (1h 49m 10s):
Oysters.

4 (1h 49m 10s):
Yeah. Cause I think like an octopus scallops is, we're not talking about octopus.

0 (1h 49m 14s):
Oh, no, no. Those are super intelligent. Exactly. They're creepy, intelligent. You ever see them open jars or they spin the jar?

4 (1h 49m 20s):
No, but did you see the, that documentary that's just come out recently called My Octopus Teacher?

0 (1h 49m 25s):
No.

4 (1h 49m 26s):
Oh. Oh my God. It's fantastic. He should watch that show.

0 (1h 49m 28s):
There is a great Instagram handle to follow. Is it OC donation? Is that what it is? I think it's OC donation. See, see if you can, do you know what that one I'm talking about? There's a fantastic inst as it is. There's a fantastic Instagram page that just, they're in love with octopus and octopi, and they're constantly highlighting all the cool things about octopus and particularly their, their ability to camouflage themselves and hide.

4 (1h 49m 56s):
Oh, they're amazing. I I, I just was diving just a few weeks ago.

0 (1h 49m 59s):
Yeah, look at this. Look at that thing, man. Oh

4 (1h 50m 1s):
My God. And they can change their colors. They're

0 (1h 50m 3s):
So cool. They're one of the coolest animals on the planet.

4 (1h 50m 6s):
No, there's no doubt about it.

0 (1h 50m 7s):
They're so strange. Like my friend Remy Warren, he used to have a television show called Apex Predator where he would basically study all these predators and their, the methods that they used to hunt. And he studied octopus. And he like, he's like, they're aliens. They are a show called Apex Predator, where he would basically study all these predators and their, the methods that they use to hunt. And he studied octopus. And he like, he's like, they're aliens.

4 (1h 50m 40s):
They are aliens.

0 (1h 50m 41s):
He, he's showing me what they're doing. He's like, there's nothing like this. There's no other animal like this. And during the course of his show, like, he developed this like, profound respect and appreciation for octopus.

4 (1h 50m 52s):
They're amazing. I, I was on a, I was scuba diving just a few weeks ago in the US Virgin Islands on a night dive, and actually saw an octopus grab, get a, get a crab. Oh, wow. Plunged on the crab. And it just sort of discord of

0 (1h 51m 6s):
Sort. Did you ever see that video that they, they had to do a, like, they put a camera in a, in a tank at the aquarium because they were losing sharks and they were trying to figure out what the hell's going on. So they put a camera in there to watch in terms of the octopus were killing the sharks.

4 (1h 51m 21s):
How big was the octopus and how big were the sharks?

0 (1h 51m 23s):
Well, the octopus was basically the same size as the sharks. Not, I mean, it wasn't a big shark, a small shark, but, you know, they'd never thought an octopus would hunt a shark. And the octopus was just sitting there chilling. All camouflage. And a shark sharks are kind of dopey, you know, sharks are not intelligent.

4 (1h 51m 39s):
They just swim around.

0 (1h 51m 40s):
They're just cleaners. They're just, they're, they're the cleanup crew. They eat a lot of things and kill a lot of things. And, but they're mostly cleanups. Yeah. And this, this oc watch this watch. You're swimming by and the octopus is like, bitch, come here. Just wraps 'em up. But the octopus looked exactly like the coral. Back it up again, Jamie. So we can see what it looked like. Go from the beginning. Oh, it's a long, oh, okay. But the crazy thing is like you lit, look how it changes color, right? Before, yeah. It's almost like he sees red. And so it jacked this shark and slowly pulled it into its body and then just ate it up for

4 (1h 52m 17s):
Whatever it's worth. If you watch my octopus teacher, which is, you really got this unbelievable film work. The camera work is incredible. This guy follows this octopus around for a full year in, out the coast of South Africa. And he's a free diver. No tanks. You, he holds his breath for several minutes. And the, the big enemy of the octopus, there were sharks. These pajama sharks, they were called. And they would hunt for the octopus, and the octopus would have to put away from

0 (1h 52m 43s):
Pajama sharks. Here it is. Yeah.

4 (1h 52m 45s):
Here it is. Octopus teacher

0 (1h 52m 47s):
Pajama sharks. I've never heard of a pajama shark. So this octopus is hanging out with this

4 (1h 52m 51s):
Dude. Oh yeah. They got to be buddies.

0 (1h 52m 53s):
That's so wild.

4 (1h 52m 54s):
There. There's a shark.

0 (1h 52m 56s):
Oh, wow. Oh no. He sees his buddy get jacked.

4 (1h 52m 60s):
Yeah.

0 (1h 53m 1s):
That's kind of rough.

4 (1h 53m 3s):
He didn't die from that though. What? The octopus

0 (1h 53m 6s):
Released one of his arms.

4 (1h 53m 8s):
He lost an arm and he grew it back.

0 (1h 53m 11s):
Do you know that female octopuses are much larger than the males? As much as like 25% larger than the males. And they, I didn't know that sometimes have sex with the males. And sometimes they pretend they're have

4 (1h 53m 22s):
Sort like, sort like humans kill

0 (1h 53m 24s):
Them and eat 'em. They, they cannibalize the males. They, they'll hold onto 'em and eat 'em for days.

4 (1h 53m 30s):
Sort like the spiders do. Black widow spiders and

0 (1h 53m 33s):
Whatnot. Yeah, but different, because the black widows do it every single time. There's one, they observe this one octopus. He got real greedy. He made it with this female 13 times. 13. Imagine how annoyed she must have been. Well, she waited till the 14th time and she's like, not today, bitch. And she grabbed him and, and ate him and killed him. But because the female's far larger physically, the male has to be like real skittish about it. Like, Hey, what do you think? How you feeling today? Hungry.

4 (1h 54m 2s):
There needs to be a revolution in the, in the social structure of octopus. And

0 (1h 54m 6s):
What are you laughing at to

4 (1h 54m 7s):
Make it more, to make it more equal. Yes. There's

0 (1h 54m 9s):
An

6 (1h 54m 9s):
Article about this and the first thing it says like, they have tricks. They do. The first thing that they do is they disguise themselves as another gal. It says it's sneak into a female den.

0 (1h 54m 20s):
Well, that's what cuttlefish do. That's the cuttlefish move.

4 (1h 54m 23s):
Oh, I love cuttlefish. Yeah.

0 (1h 54m 25s):
Male octopus. Hold on. What's the show? Sorry. I have a big problem. Female octopus is each male wants to mate and pass on his genes to a new generation. Trouble is the female's often larger and hungry than he is. So there's a constant risk that instead of mating, the female will strangle him and eat him.

4 (1h 54m 41s):
The males have a host of tricks to survive though.

0 (1h 54m 43s):
Yeah. Good luck.

4 (1h 54m 44s):
Some of them quite literally made at arm's length.

0 (1h 54m 47s):
Well, you know why they, they actually release their arms. Each arm that an octopus has is actually a penis. So they actually, and they got eight of sucks. Yeah. They have sex with their arm. So when

4 (1h 54m 59s):
We have a lot, we, there's a lot we could learn. There's a lot we could learn from octopus.

0 (1h 55m 3s):
Yes. I don't know how they masturbate though. They could probably have a real problem. It's like rubbing penises together. It's not very productive. Like, but I think each arm is a penis. But for whatever they, either way their arm is most certainly a penis. And when the woman, the female octopus is attacking, they will release their arm. They literally will give her the arm. They let her snap the arm off, and then she eats the arm

4 (1h 55m 27s):
Better to keep the other seven arms.

0 (1h 55m 29s):
Well, I guess yeah. That's, imagine, I mean, there's a divorce metaphor in there somewhere from

4 (1h 55m 36s):
Sex is dangerous. What can you say? Well,

0 (1h 55m 37s):
It's also weird. They regenerate their arms, which is pretty, pretty crafty. Yeah. You know, that's what, you know know when they catch stone crabs, they catch 'em and they just snap off their claw and then throw 'em back and they'll just grow a claw.

4 (1h 55m 52s):
Oh, you mean humans? People catch 'em. Yeah. Yeah, exactly.

0 (1h 55m 55s):
It's one of the weirder fish or weirder kind types of seafood because it's one of the rare ones where you can catch the thing, snap off one of their limbs and chuck 'em back. Like you can keep part of them. And they still survive. Like, and they don't even

4 (1h 56m 11s):
Probably problem with it. They, I suspect they survive less long with only one claw than if they had a couple of

0 (1h 56m 19s):
Claws. Yeah, I would imagine there's, but

4 (1h 56m 20s):
They, they have a chance to survive. Yeah.

0 (1h 56m 22s):
They have a, a better chance, better

4 (1h 56m 24s):
Chance than if they just get immediately eaten.

6 (1h 56m 26s):
That ju just to correct that eight, eight arm penis thing. They only one, it says that they have, their main tool is their specialized mating arm. It works like the other arms, but it has some special ability to bend, stretch, and exert suction.

0 (1h 56m 41s):
So they have one arm that's a special penis arm.

6 (1h 56m 44s):
It has some extra bells and whistles as this says. Do

0 (1h 56m 47s):
They grow that one back if she steals it? Let's see. Imagine that's

4 (1h 56m 51s):
The one you don't wanna offer up.

0 (1h 56m 52s):
Maybe, maybe you're tired of it.

6 (1h 56m 55s):
It's got a special tip. Obviously.

0 (1h 56m 58s):
Maybe they're tired of like worried about getting eaten. Like, oh great, she took my penis. Good. I could relax her a couple weeks while throws back, stay away from these vicious broads. They're goddamn cannibalistic instincts. So he only has one of those.

6 (1h 57m 13s):
Yeah. And it goes, there's a quick, there's a picture. I've no, I haven't seen a picture.

0 (1h 57m 16s):
Find out if that one grows back.

6 (1h 57m 18s):
There's the picture of what it looks like when they do it. Oh, Jesus. It has to go all the way. It's a

4 (1h 57m 22s):
Deep

0 (1h 57m 22s):
Oh wow. It goes into her, her brain, into her head. Oh my God. No wonder why she wants to kill 'em. It's probably annoying. Right. Her ovaries are in the back of her head. That's nuts.

6 (1h 57m 34s):
So the testes,

0 (1h 57m 35s):
Wow. So he's got a, so his testicles to the back of his brain and her, what a strange animal man

4 (1h 57m 42s):
They are. They're, you said they're aliens.

0 (1h 57m 44s):
Yeah, they really are. I mean, if we found them on some far off planet, we would not be stunned. Like if, if we, they didn't exist here and we found them somewhere else, we'd be like, oh, alien life. We're, we're just so accustomed to some of the more bizarre things.

4 (1h 58m 1s):
Squid or also bizarre. Oh yeah. And, and, and saw cuttlefish.

0 (1h 58m 5s):
Yes. Cuttlefish. We were talking about cuttlefish before that. Eric Weinstein is one who told me about the cuttlefish strategy. That male cuttlefish will pretend to be female. And they'll do that in order to trick the females into being friends with 'em. And then they, they get some like fem male feminists, basically the same thing. I'm

4 (1h 58m 26s):
Not gonna go there.

6 (1h 58m 27s):
This says that they have the, the, the whole old school I arm reach around like the guys doing like

0 (1h 58m 33s):
Movie theater, like at the movie theater. Oh.

6 (1h 58m 35s):
They don't even go inside the den. That's for them to safely mate. Oh. They'll reach in, slide it in and then just like, they're not even in the same room technically.

0 (1h 58m 44s):
Wow. They're just reaching and just get into her brain. What a b bizarre method of me mating,

4 (1h 58m 52s):
You know,

0 (1h 58m 53s):
Linking brains.

4 (1h 58m 55s):
Females have, you know, they have different tastes.

0 (1h 58m 58s):
Yeah. Some of them do. Don't be sexist. Listen to this guy. Yeah. That's a weird animal to eat octopus because they're smarter than dogs. They're really smart.

4 (1h 59m 11s):
Do you, is intelligence one of the variables you use in determining what animals you'll eat and not eat?

0 (1h 59m 17s):
Yes and no. Because pigs are intelligent. But I'll eat wild pigs cuz pigs are invasive and it's a real problem in terms of like management of wildlife and the amount of animals that you have and what kind of destruction they can do to ground nesting birds and other, you know, species that are native to the area. Invasive animals are a gigantic issue. And pigs in particular are one of the most devastating invasive species that we have in North America for sure. But worldwide in Australia, they're a giant problem.

4 (1h 59m 49s):
They're actually now a, an increasing problem in the hill country here. Oh

0 (1h 59m 53s):
Yeah. No, I have a friend that lives half hour out of town and he's got 'em, which is, that's not very far.

4 (1h 59m 60s):
Yeah. We wipe out their natural predators.

0 (2h 0m 2s):
No, there are no natural predators. Exactly. They've never had any here. They were brought in here from Russia and from other countries. They like, they're a very durable animal that breeds constantly. And they're natural predators are, you know, for, if you're gonna keep a population of pigs down, you gotta have some fucking monsters out there. Like if you want to have their natural predators, their natural predators are not just gonna stop at pigs. They're going to eat all sorts of other animals and domestic animals and livestock and

4 (2h 0m 32s):
Like Yeah.

0 (2h 0m 33s):
Like they're invasive

4 (2h 0m 35s):
Big cats or, yeah. Or wolves would probably be natural predators for these pigs.

0 (2h 0m 39s):
But you need so many of 'em. They're so prolific. They breed so often. They breed three or four times a year. And the females,

4 (2h 0m 45s):
Joey, you've gotta get out there and help protect our land. No,

0 (2h 0m 48s):
I'm not the guy, but I will eat them and I will kill them. But the, the pigs, the wild pigs in the, when, when they're six months old, they're viable. So they, they start having sex and breeding at six months old and they'll, they'll breed a litter three times a year sometimes, which is crazy. So they'll have four or five piglets three times a year. So one pig could be responsible for as many as 20 other pigs. One female in a year. And I have a friend who works on a ranch and he says, you have never seen anything like the devastation these things do when they move in and find a crop. Like, so if they'll have a crop of, of food that, you know, these folks need for their livelihood.

0 (2h 1m 28s):
And then a pack of wild pigs come in and just destroys it. Wow. Says it's pretty wild to see. And some of them are huge.

4 (2h 1m 38s):
We own a, we own a place 40 miles west of Austin and we see a lot of the pig pig scat plus where they dig. So they're, we don't actually see them cuz they're nocturnal.

0 (2h 1m 51s):
Yeah. They hunt 'em at night. Yeah. Which is really crazy of friends that do 'em with night vision goggles and night vision scopes and you know, and there's people that hunt 'em with helicopters as well. Wow. Which is very unique to Texas. They have these helicopter hunts and they, they, they say that this, other than capturing them in traps, like there's one of the most effective ways to do it.

4 (2h 2m 13s):
Well, you've got me, I'm a grocer who sells meat, but I'm a plant-based guy who doesn't eat it. So you've got me in a Yeah. Paradox there.

0 (2h 2m 23s):
Well, that is that weird for you? Do you have a, an issue, an ethical issue with selling the meat? Or do you make sure that the farmers or the ranchers that do sell you guys the meat hold up very strict ethics.

4 (2h 2m 36s):
We try to do the latter, although I'll tell you a story. The very first store I opened up before Whole Foods was called Safer Way. And it's vegetarian store and it, it, it was not only vegetarian, it was very pure. We, we, we didn't really sell sugar, refined sugars or white flour even didn't even sell coffee. And we also did very little business. We were not, we were, we were so narrow in the marketplace, we weren't successful. Mm. And it wasn't until we, we relocated that store, merged with another store, changed the name to Whole Foods Market, and opened a bigger store that sold meat, coffee, alcohol, you know, all Nat Natural and Organic foods, but a full spectrum that this, that we became successful.

0 (2h 3m 24s):
So was that in many ways like a battle for you? A little bit because you have this one idealistic perspective of what a supermarket could be versus this

4 (2h 3m 33s):
Is the most battle. It it, I put it this way, it's like, what I learned is that in order to do the most good in the world, in order to help the most people, you have to be willing to meet the marketplace where you find it. If you stand, try to stand above the marketplace and you're too pure for the marketplace, then you're not gonna help anybody. You're gonna fail. You're gonna go outta business. Ultimately customers vote, they decide whether you prosper or fail. And safer wave was going to fail because we would, would it be possible to do it today? Maybe. So today, the world's different today than it was in 1978. But back then we were gonna fail.

4 (2h 4m 13s):
We lost half our money in the first year

0 (2h 4m 15s):
In 1978. Starbucks wasn't around, was it? No.

4 (2h 4m 18s):
Oh no. Actually Starbucks was they, they, I don't think they were around. They were getting close to being around. Nobody

0 (2h 4m 24s):
Knew how addictive Coffee was back then. Oh yeah, they did. But they didn't really,

4 (2h 4m 29s):
They did, but they were drinking instant coffee. Like Folgers and actual house, but Right.

0 (2h 4m 33s):
Or Dunking Donuts. That's where I used to drink. But I never thought that coffee would be a thing that would be on every corner. Like there's a place in Houston and Lewis Black used to have a joke about it, where you'd be on, it was in River Oaks. It was across the street from another Starbucks. There was a Starbucks across the street from another Starbucks. It was the strangest thing. I was like, well,

4 (2h 4m 55s):
New York City, they got on practically in Manhattan on every block.

0 (2h 4m 59s):
Yeah. But this was across the street.

4 (2h 5m 2s):
Well there, there was a cartoon once that said, I just opened up a Starbucks in the bathroom. Starbucks in, in the bathroom of a Starbucks.

0 (2h 5m 11s):
But people are so addicted to it, it's so strange how addicted they are to getting their Starbucks fixed. You know, they use their apps and show. So when you were selling no coffee back then, were you doing it because you don't believe in coffee, you think coffee's bad for you? Or did you make a decision? Is it a fair trade issue?

4 (2h 5m 28s):
No, it was, we just didn't think it was a healthy food. Hmm. So we didn't sell it. And then now we do sell it. We sell probably, I'm sure we sell probably one of the largest coffee distributors in the United States now. Probably.

0 (2h 5m 44s):
Yeah. You probably are. I think out of, I think they've done studies on moderate coffee consumption that have shown it to not have a detrimental effect.

4 (2h 5m 56s):
There's no nutritive value in coffee, except for perhaps some antioxidants. But the studies do indicate that moderate consumption of coffee is consistent with longevity. Yeah. So I don't think it's a, it's not a, it's not like smoking cigarettes. It's not in,

0 (2h 6m 13s):
There's a cognitive benefit to it too, that some people think it's worth the squeeze.

4 (2h 6m 18s):
That's a mental stimulant.

0 (2h 6m 19s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 6m 20s):
Problem is, I'm, I have to admit that I'm a decaf guy. I, I got off a coffee and,

0 (2h 6m 25s):
But it tastes like shit. Why not your shrink? I'm gonna sneeze. That's so dangerous today. Thank God I've been tested ab

4 (2h 6m 33s):
Absolutely. Unless you got infected and it hasn't shown up yet. No,

0 (2h 6m 36s):
I didn't. But tea, tea tastes better. Why don't you drink tea? Why would you want decaf coffee?

4 (2h 6m 43s):
I, I, I like decaf espresso tastes really good. You have to,

0 (2h 6m 48s):
I like regular espresso. I want to, I wanna feel the juice getting in the veins.

4 (2h 6m 52s):
Well,

0 (2h 6m 53s):
The darkness

4 (2h 6m 54s):
I've taken that I, I was recovering. I, it took me, when I got off of caffeine back in the year 2000, I had, first of all, I had physical withdrawal symptoms of headaches that lasted horrible headaches that lasted, took about a week before the headaches went away. Really? And then I was exhausted. I was tired and all I could think about if I would have a cup of coffee or some tea right now, I'd feel good again. I'd have energy back. Yeah, exactly.

0 (2h 7m 19s):
Should have done it.

4 (2h 7m 20s):
However, however, after 30 days after 30 days, I'd gotten the caffeine outta my system. Text caffeine about seven days to completely live, leave your system. And my, my adrenals began to be reestablished. I kind of got my own energy back. Okay.

0 (2h 7m 33s):
You know, that's bullshit. What adrenals? That that what you just said is bullshit. That you're taxing your adrenals. That's some voodoo nonsense that those holistic people like to tell you. I don't think that's true. Yeah, no, I've read it. There's, there was a study on it recently where they were talking about like what it would actually take to tax your adrenals. And then what people are talking about is it withdraw from caffeine, which is real. Let

4 (2h 7m 57s):
Me, let me, let me withdraw that statement because that wasn't the real point of it. The point of it was that once I got my own vitality back, it was, I was no longer at the serv. I was no longer servant of the caffeine, which would determine when I felt good and when I didn't feel good. I just had my natural flow of energy and vitality. And having compared the two states, this is a preferable state in my mind. I feel a lot better.

0 (2h 8m 20s):
I believe that percent. The, the problem I was having is that, that adrenal thing, it's, it is a thing that people say, a lot of people say, I'm

4 (2h 8m 29s):
Not a, I'm not a, that's what I've read. So, but I don't know it for any certainty, so I'll withdraw. Yeah.

0 (2h 8m 36s):
I've read it too,

4 (2h 8m 36s):
Too. But what I do know is I felt a lot better when I got off a,

0 (2h 8m 39s):
Well, I'm sure

4 (2h 8m 40s):
When I got off a caffeine, you

0 (2h 8m 41s):
Have a, I mean, it's a stimulant and that's what caffeine is.

4 (2h 8m 44s):
And you gotta pay that. You create a debt, you gotta pay that stimulus back.

0 (2h 8m 47s):
Yeah. But I was, I recently read this article by a nutritionist that was explaining like, what would have to be, what what would have to go wrong in your system for you to tax your adrenals. And that's just not how it works. And that you're just dealing with a stimulant and that your body's getting off of that stimulant. And like any other stimulant, there's gonna be a withdrawal. Right. But it's not that you're taxing your adrenals.

4 (2h 9m 10s):
Okay. Yeah.

0 (2h 9m 11s):
But see people say things like that. Like you're polluting your kidneys or damaging your kidneys by letting, eating too much protein.

4 (2h 9m 18s):
You know, what can I say? I've read possibly different studies and articles than you have in different books. Well, I've

0 (2h 9m 24s):
Had too many people explain things to me here where you, you know, I had some ideas that I had in my head that I thought was correct in terms of nutrition and what's good and what's bad for you. And you

4 (2h 9m 37s):
Let me, let me give you a couple of facts that, oh, please do. That you might find interesting. First of all, there's been only one diet that's been proven to reverse heart disease. And that is a whole foods plant-based diet. It's,

0 (2h 9m 49s):
I don't think that's true. I know what you're saying, but I I've actually read that that's not true either. That this proven to reduce heart disease, that that's not what's reducing heart disease. What's reducing heart disease is healthy behaviors. And that you're making this change in terms of eliminating toxic foods and do you any processed foods. And

4 (2h 10m 8s):
So do you have any other studies that show you can reverse heart disease without being on a Whole Foods plant-based diet? Reverse it. Reverse it.

0 (2h 10m 17s):
See that's the thing, it's like nutritionists have explained to me that there's a giant flaw and these epidemiology, this is

4 (2h 10m 23s):
Not epidemiology

0 (2h 10m 24s):
Citing, this

4 (2h 10m 24s):
Is not epidemiology.

0 (2h 10m 25s):
How's, how would you

4 (2h 10m 26s):
That control, these are controlled studies. Dean, Dean Ornish and Caldwell Selden. They're the two giants

0 (2h 10m 32s):
Reversing heart disease just because of a plant-based

4 (2h 10m 35s):
Diet. Just strictly, no, not just a plant-based diet. A whole foods plant-based low fat diet has been proven to reverse it.

0 (2h 10m 43s):
I don't know if that's true. It is true. Okay. We're gonna find out if it is when Jamie will pull something up, because I've read something about how that was bullshit too. And it was by,

4 (2h 10m 52s):
In, in my book by the way. So my, the studies are in the book The Whole Foods.

0 (2h 10m 56s):
Oh, I'm sure you've read some things to say that.

4 (2h 10m 58s):
Let, let me give you the other facts.

0 (2h 10m 59s):
Okay.

4 (2h 11m 0s):
So do you know about the Blue Zones?

0 (2h 11m 2s):
Yes, I do.

4 (2h 11m 3s):
Okay. Well five Blue Zones, they're diets are remarkably similar. They're basically eating about on average, according to Dan Butner. Good guy to have on your show sometime. Well,

0 (2h 11m 15s):
Like you are Belinda, right? You're Belinda, California

4 (2h 11m 18s):
Lo Loma Linda

0 (2h 11m 19s):
Loma Linda. That's

4 (2h 11m 20s):
Right. Loma Linda the seven day. What is your,

0 (2h 11m 21s):
Linda? I'm thinking you're ba

4 (2h 11m 23s):
Yeah, I think you are. We're talking about caffeine. We're talking about caffeine. You got, that may be you're talking choice. You're,

0 (2h 11m 29s):
But you know that one's, that's a Seventh Day Adventist.

4 (2h 11m 31s):
Right? But there, but there's also the, the Okinawa Ikaria Greece. Right.

0 (2h 11m 37s):
You understand healthy user bias. Right. And this is like the great example of the Seventh Day Adventist. They don't drink any alcohol. They exercise every day. There's, they have many more positive habits and you apply those positive habits. And the fact that eat a vegetarian diet, you could assume that the reason why they're healthy is because of the vegetarian diet.

4 (2h 11m 59s):
That's not what I'm saying. Because none of the blue zones, except for a small subset of the seven Day Adventists are actually vegetarian. Most of them just eat small quantities of animal foods. About 10% of their calories, which is what we recommend in this

0 (2h 12m 11s):
Book. Right. But they're almost all very active people.

4 (2h 12m 14s):
Yes. But we don't have any examples of longevity in any culture that eats a heavy meat diet. None.

0 (2h 12m 21s):
Longevity. Like longevity. The messai living

4 (2h 12m 24s):
The Messiah, the average, you know, the average age of a Messiah?

0 (2h 12m 27s):
No, I don't. 45.

4 (2h 12m 29s):
Well,

0 (2h 12m 29s):
Don't they fuck up lions with spears?

4 (2h 12m 32s):
Whatever's not

0 (2h 12m 33s):
Risky business.

4 (2h 12m 33s):
It may be, but it's not a good example. Yeah, we How, how about the But I was just saying Inuits, that's another one that's used. They're usually, they, they have the highest heart disease problem.

0 (2h 12m 43s):
Stop right there. Okay. Because that's not normal. This is a, a recent occurrence with them because of cigarettes and alcohol, western diet and changing the way they live, like the, the introduction of cigarettes and alcohol is what's fucked those people up.

4 (2h 12m 56s):
I'm merely saying, and I put the challenge to you. Show me examples of long-lived peoples that are heavy consumers of animal foods. Well

0 (2h 13m 3s):
I don't know of there are any specific long-term studies that have been done on people who are eating a lot of animal food and are also very active and, and healthy and making healthy choices outside of that. The problem with alcohol and cigarettes and all these other things that people tend to eat, tend to take in and consume when they're also consuming animal foods is that all those things get lumped in together.

4 (2h 13m 29s):
I agree there. And the blue zones doesn't claim that it's just diet. It, they actually believe there's many factors. There's the amount of movement that people do, the healthy community that they have some type of purpose, higher purpose spirituality or, or a junk. If you're eating the vegan cheeses all the time,

0 (2h 13m 48s):
You're saying whole foods, whole

4 (2h 13m 49s):
Food, plant-based diet, vegetables, lots of fruits and vegetables, beans, whole grains, small quantities of nuts and seeds. That's of extremely healthy diet. And if you add a little bit of animal foods to it, then it's still gonna be a really healthy diet. And that's what the blue zones do.

0 (2h 14m 6s):
I think we, we can all agree on is that eating toxic food, eating processed food, not healthy. Yes, we do agree on that. Not exercising, living a sedentary lifestyle, consumption of cigarettes and alcohol. All these things are detrimental to your health. Absolutely.

4 (2h 14m 21s):
I'll even go so far as to say that a, a vegan junk food diet is about the most unhealthy diet you can eat cuz you're just eating processed foods. Yeah. Animal foods are actually whole foods. Right. And they have a variety of nutrients in them. You can get 'em all from plants except for

0 (2h 14m 39s):
B12. So what do you think is bad about animal foods other than the ethics

4 (2h 14m 43s):
From a health standpoint? The, it depends on how much you eat. And if you eat too much of it, then we see the, the heart disease. We see cancer. These all correlate very closely with

0 (2h 14m 55s):
The Right. But now you're talking about epidemiology studies.

4 (2h 14m 58s):
Yes. But epidemiology, we can't do controlled studies on people over the long term. So.

0 (2h 15m 2s):
Right. But you understand that the people that you're seeing high rates of cancer and heart disease aren't consuming grass fed steak and salads. What they're consuming is cheeseburgers. I understand. And fries and milkshakes and soda and all sorts of bullshit. So when they do a study on someone, they say, how often do you eat meat? And they say, I eat meat five days a week. And they go, oh, well look at the incidence of cancer. And people that fill out the study and say they eat meat five days a week. That's where

4 (2h 15m 25s):
I understand

0 (2h 15m 26s):
Take these correlations and connections. It's

4 (2h 15m 28s):
Like, it's like I do this debate all the time too. And so I, I understand your position on this. And all I would say is find the other, where are the epidemiological studies to support your point of view? There aren't any

0 (2h 15m 41s):
Well, well epidemiology studies, it's a point, my point of view. What do you mean? If you wanted an epidemiology study that supported the fact that animal foods are not bad for you, you would have to find groups of people that only eat animal foods and don't consume alcohol and cigarettes. And then compare 'em to people that do and find out what the variables are. Right. I think people who do consume cigarettes and do consume alcohol and do consume processed foods and sugars and excess, you know, corn syrup, foods and all, all the shit that we know as a part of a standard American diet. Right.

4 (2h 16m 14s):
Are you saying that people that consume animal foods are more likely to consume processed food, cigarettes and alcohol? Yes,

0 (2h 16m 21s):
They are. Because people have been told that animal foods are bad for you. So when people are like, fuck it and they just have a cheeseburger, particularly if you're talking about the average American, the average American, they're getting their meat. They're probably not eating a grass fed ribeye. They're probably eating a cheeseburger that they get from jack in the box or someplace like that. So you're getting processed foods, you're getting meat, but you're also getting sugar and corn syrup and all sorts of other nonsense. That's the problem with these epidemiology studies. And you know that.

4 (2h 16m 50s):
Yeah. But you're, you're talking about a, a pretty small group if you've got the whole world to work from there. And lots of the world eats animal foods that are grass fed and the same type of results show up there, generally the more animals

0 (2h 17m 3s):
The same type of results in terms of what the term heart disease and cancer and, and, and with people that occasionally like what, what, like what are the, what are the studies you're talking about?

4 (2h 17m 16s):
I can, would you like me to send you some studies?

0 (2h 17m 18s):
No, I wanted you to tell me right now because you're saying it like, you know it for a fact. Like what studies are showing that people that consume grass fed meat and vegetables are showing the same levels of heart disease and cancer as people that eat the standard American diet.

4 (2h 17m 33s):
Since I don't have those studies in front of me,

0 (2h 17m 35s):
They don't, they only exist. Well, parsing out the standard American diet if you both degrees

4 (2h 17m 40s):
Toxic. I I can send it to you.

0 (2h 17m 41s):
It's toxic. Be eating horseshit and drinking soda. It's not good for your body. No, it's terrible. Right.

4 (2h 17m 47s):
Well that's where we agree. We agree. Processed foods are bad.

0 (2h 17m 49s):
So when you're getting this standard American diet and you're

4 (2h 17m 52s):
Applying it

0 (2h 17m 52s):
To epidemiology study where they're saying, oh, this person eats meat five days a week. Well, what else do they eat? The problem with those studies is they're so flawed. If you, I'm, if you making someone fill out a form,

4 (2h 18m 5s):
You're having an argument with somebody besides me, somebody you've had an argument with in the past. Because I'm not saying that you're, you're overreacting the things that I'm saying based on some other discussions you've had in the past, I

0 (2h 18m 16s):
Don't think I'm overreacting.

4 (2h 18m 19s):
If you're interested, I will send you studies. I mean, and I I can, I can tell you that the studies contradict what you're saying and that the epidemiology cannot do because it's not as good as a randomized controlled study, which are hard to do. A nutrition does not make them worthless. It just means that they're not a complete answer. But they, they do point in certain directions,

0 (2h 18m 42s):
But they're conveniently pointing to this meat argument versus all the other stuff they're eating. Which we've shown to be bad for you. It's people have been eating meat since the beginning of time,

4 (2h 18m 54s):
But not in very large quantities. Generally

0 (2h 18m 56s):
Depends on what people,

4 (2h 18m 58s):
Yeah. Depends on which people,

0 (2h 18m 59s):
I mean people that have been around buffalo and that's all they could eat, they ate nothing but buffalo. So

4 (2h 19m 5s):
The, the animals that we are closest to from an evolutionary standpoint are the chimpanzees, the bonobos and the gorillas. Were not exactly the same, but they're the closest relatives we have in nature. The gorillas are a hundred percent and by the way, they're pretty damn big. They get enough protein. The

0 (2h 19m 22s):
Gorillas, well they have a completely different digestive system.

4 (2h 19m 25s):
Not completely different.

0 (2h 19m 26s):
It's very different. They eat only leaves and and grass and bark and shit. You know, it's very different.

4 (2h 19m 34s):
The chimp big, they get enough protein. The gorilla,

0 (2h 19m 36s):
They have a completely different digestive system.

4 (2h 19m 39s):
Not completely

0 (2h 19m 40s):
Different. It's very different. They eat only leaves and and grass and bark and shit. You know, it's very different.

4 (2h 19m 48s):
The chimpanzees are about 95% plant-based and they're the closest to us. They're about 99%. They

0 (2h 19m 53s):
Gets so excited when they kill monkeys. Have you ever watched those videos like the David a videos

4 (2h 19m 57s):
They, they eat about, they eat about 5% of their calories. Studies show they eat about 5% of their calorie man foods. And again, I'm not arguing that we don't eat any an humans. We clearly evolved as omnivores, but in general we were mostly gatherers who we couldn't preserve most animal foods. We didn't have the technology to preserve it. So we feast it when we could get it. But you could smoke some of it and dry some of it for jerky. But in general, we didn't have massive supplies of animal foods. We were mostly eating plants with a little bit of animal foods. That might be the optimum human

0 (2h 20m 29s):
Right. But you also understand that most plants are inedible.

4 (2h 20m 32s):
Most plants are inedible. True.

0 (2h 20m 33s):
Yeah. And most animals are edible.

4 (2h 20m 38s):
That's probably true. So what?

0 (2h 20m 39s):
Yeah. So whenever they do you think got a chance to eat plants, there was a lot more be real careful with what they could eat and what they couldn't eat. Because most of it was inedible and much of it even toxic. Most. Whereas if they can catch an animal and eat it, they're almost all edible. How

4 (2h 20m 54s):
Many different animal foods do you eat?

0 (2h 20m 56s):
How many different ones?

4 (2h 20m 57s):
Yeah. Gimme a rough estimate.

0 (2h 21m 0s):
Eggs. Meat, fish.

4 (2h 21m 2s):
No, but maybe 20 different kinds.

0 (2h 21m 5s):
Probably something like that.

4 (2h 21m 5s):
How many different plant foods do you eat?

0 (2h 21m 8s):
Well, I live in a western society where I can go to whole foods and I can get tomatoes and all kinds of avocados. Stuff that's not even grown here. I mean when we were,

4 (2h 21m 17s):
When we were,

0 (2h 21m 18s):
It's a different world.

4 (2h 21m 19s):
When we were foraging, we knew what were toxic plants because we'd had our grandparents people

0 (2h 21m 26s):
Died from Exactly,

4 (2h 21m 27s):
Yeah. And so, but there was a huge variety of plants. We ate massively diverse diets when we were out foraging. Right. Probably far more diverse than we ate today. Even though there's a whole foods market. Just cuz there were so many different foods out there in the wild, in the, in the woods and the jungles. This will have to be a conversation that we can have at another time. Probably.

0 (2h 21m 48s):
But what's your point? I I, I agree with you that there's probably a, a lot of different plants. Well

4 (2h 21m 52s):
I was, I was talking about, well the, you were saying that, that we can eat any kind of animal, but we can't any eat any kind of plant. And I'm saying there's so much more abundance of plants to choose from than in our normal diet or in our, when we were foragers than animals. Animals were a smaller for sure a much smaller percentage of our total calorie consumption probably

0 (2h 22m 12s):
Cuz they're really hard to catch. But they also think that one of the reasons why we became human beings was because of hunting. And that's directly correlated to the increase of brain size. Cooking meat and hunting and having more access to proteins. You

4 (2h 22m 25s):
Understand? That's a theory. That's not science, that's just a theory.

0 (2h 22m 29s):
Right. It's one of the most probable theories. One of the most accepted theories. One of, in terms of the increase in human brain size. It's

4 (2h 22m 37s):
Prob there's an equally theory that, that probably when we became root eaters is when we, where they got brains.

0 (2h 22m 45s):
I've never read that theater. Yeah. That theory rather, when we became root eaters, that's when our brains grew.

4 (2h 22m 49s):
We started eating tubers. Yeah. How

0 (2h 22m 51s):
Come rabbits aren't gigantic brains?

4 (2h 22m 53s):
They're not big tube eaters. They're they're leaf eaters.

0 (2h 22m 56s):
Rabbits eat carrots, man, you watch Bugs Bunny.

4 (2h 22m 59s):
Yeah. So how do those blue whales get so damn big? Just eating crill. Plankton?

0 (2h 23m 4s):
Well, they eat a lot of things. They don't eat. Just eat plankton.

4 (2h 23m 7s):
No, I think the blue whales are plankton eaters. That's

0 (2h 23m 10s):
It. That's all they eat.

4 (2h 23m 11s):
I think there, there are other whales that are definitely eating.

0 (2h 23m 13s):
Yeah. Listen, we're not whales. Right. This is gonna be a weird conversation. The whales have still never figured out how to grow fingers.

4 (2h 23m 20s):
We're we're humans. So we're we're great apes and we're, we've evolved similar to what, but I don't,

0 (2h 23m 24s):
Apes don't like those. How come this animal can do it? We're, we're not that animal.

4 (2h 23m 28s):
We know from the blue zones that the people that eat mostly plant-based diets live the longest. There's such massive amount of evidence if you'll open your mind to it. Oh well

0 (2h 23m 36s):
Listen, my mind's open. Those blue zones are also people that are very active. The, there's a direct correlation between physical activity. Yeah. I think the people that live a vegan diet that, that follow a vegan diet but are healthy and exercise are far better off than someone who lives a sedentary lifestyle and even even eats healthy meat. I think the key is healthy equal. Like if you're gonna be a healthy person, you need physical activity. And that there's a direct correlation between physical activity and longevity and health benefits. Of course.

4 (2h 24m 7s):
Absolutely.

0 (2h 24m 8s):
Right. Well this is what you see a lot in these blue zones as well, right?

4 (2h 24m 11s):
Yes. That, I mean it, I'm merely saying what's true, there's one factor, diet is a factor. It's not, it may be one of the most important factors, but it's not the only factor for longevity. But the longest lived peoples, what they have in common is they all move, they all have families and communities. They, and they also mostly eat plant-based diet. Whole foods. Plant-based diets. That's mostly what they eat with some animal foods. I'm not, none of them are vegan except for a small subset of the Adventist. But they are mostly plant-based eaters that have a small, 10% of their calories are animal foods. At least that's what the studies

0 (2h 24m 48s):
Show. This studies also show that they're also very active.

4 (2h 24m 51s):
Yes, they are very active. Yeah.

0 (2h 24m 52s):
I

4 (2h 24m 53s):
Just, not because they're out running around, but just because their natural lifestyle moves are out.

0 (2h 24m 59s):
You find anything,

6 (2h 25m 0s):
I mean there's a lot of stuff in this topic.

0 (2h 25m 4s):
Wish I, I need

4 (2h 25m 5s):
To have my own research. I need to have my own researcher

0 (2h 25m 7s):
That I read recently, I think the article was basically stop saying that a vegan diet reverses heart disease. And it was explaining all, all the problems in that logic. I

6 (2h 25m 18s):
Didn't find that specific one. But there's an article here from the British Heart Foundation that talks about this and I think that started with a small study of 22 people that did plant-based and four of them had some reversal. This article here though, currently goes into deeper studies and says that there isn't really a good study about it.

0 (2h 25m 40s):
Exactly. From

6 (2h 25m 40s):
What I can find to

0 (2h 25m 42s):
This, mind you, a study published in 2014 looked at 198 patients to further investigate whether eating a strict plant-based diet could stop or reverse heart disease. Had found that of the 177 patients who stuck to the diet, the majority reported a reduction in symptoms and 22% had a disease reversal confirmed by test results. But that study didn't just rule out animal products. It also cut out added oils, processed foods, sugar, refined carbohydrates, excess salt, fruit juice, avocados and nuts. Physical activity was also encouraged and prescribed medication continued. This is the problem with saying that and this, this is not just, there's not just one of these that's like this.

0 (2h 26m 23s):
It's basically the same thing. You're talking about people that make healthy choices and that's what's reverse heart disease. Also change their diet and ate healthier. But not just ate plant. I mean not just ate plants and a plant-based diet, but also remove processed foods and sugars.

4 (2h 26m 41s):
Of course a whole foods plant-based low fat diet. That's the three that's proven to reverse heart disease.

0 (2h 26m 50s):
Yeah. But all three, these people also cut out sugar, refined carbohydrates. Those are, those are not whole

4 (2h 26m 55s):
Foods

0 (2h 26m 55s):
Juice. Those

4 (2h 26m 56s):
Are not whole foods.

0 (2h 26m 57s):
Exactly. But they cut out the bullshit that was killing them. It wasn't that plant-based diets were reversing heart disease. They cut out the things that were killing them. This is what the, the other article that I'd, I wish I could find it.

4 (2h 27m 8s):
So I guess what I'm saying is show me a study that people eat, cut out all the processed foods, eat a high percentage of their calories in animal foods, say 30 40% of their calories from animal foods in reverse heart disease. There hasn't been any

0 (2h 27m 22s):
Studies is showing that the people are cutting out toxic things that we know are toxic. I don't believe animal foods are toxic. I think people have been eating animal foods from the beginning of time. So Sure. I think the problem is these things that we haven't been eating since the beginning of time. Process. Carbohydrates, sugars, fruit, juice, all the bullshit, vegetable oils, all these things that people have been adding to their diets fairly recently. That coincides with a direct uptick in heart disease.

4 (2h 27m 53s):
So your hypothesis is, first of all, I, I don't

0 (2h 27m 55s):
Have a hypothesis, this is just shit that I've read.

4 (2h 27m 57s):
Okay. So what you believe from the shit you've read is that you could eat a high animal food diet, cut out all the processed stuff and you'd reverse heart disease.

0 (2h 28m 8s):
I think that if

4 (2h 28m 10s):
I have heart disease, I have clogged

0 (2h 28m 11s):
Heart disease is because they eat shit and they don't exercise. I think that is where heart disease is coming from. I don't think plants are gonna fix your heart.

4 (2h 28m 22s):
I think it comes from both. And you think it just comes from the processed foods? That's where we part company. Yeah.

0 (2h 28m 28s):
That is probably where we part company. I think plants are good for you. Don't get me wrong. So I think eating healthy and eating whole foods we both agree are good for you. Sweet. I just don't think that meat is bad for you.

4 (2h 28m 38s):
I don't think in small quantities meat is bad for you. But I think in large quantities it starts to clog up your arteries and your propensity to cancer goes up. Cause I think that's what the science shows.

0 (2h 28m 48s):
I don't think the science does show that. I don't think the science shows that large.

4 (2h 28m 51s):
I'm gonna send you the studies.

0 (2h 28m 53s):
Clogs your heart

4 (2h 28m 54s):
Clog begins to clogs.

0 (2h 28m 55s):
Clogs your arteries. Is that what happens? The

4 (2h 28m 57s):
High fat content of the, of the meat over time clogs up your arteries.

0 (2h 29m 2s):
Yes. Yeah. I'd like to sit you down with a doctor who disagrees with you. Well and have you go back and forth with it because it's a complicated issue. Diet is a very complicated issue and it goes along with so many different things that people choose lifestyle choices. When you see the results, like how healthy or how sick you are, there's a lot of factors that go into there. But people that are plant-based tend to lean on that one factor. They tend to lean on this one aspect of their lifestyle choices. That seems to be improving health. And I don't think, I don't think you could do that as much as, I don't think that you can lean on meat as being a cause of cancer when you look at epidemiology studies with people that eat meat five days a week but also consume a bunch of bullshit.

0 (2h 29m 44s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 29m 45s):
So clearly we're gonna not agree on this one. Well

0 (2h 29m 47s):
I think we need to make studies that show, like if they had a study where they took someone or took a group of people, a large group like in that study and they took them off of the standard American diet and fed them grass fed beef and vegetables and then had them exercise on a regular basis. Sure, I bet we would see similar results.

4 (2h 30m 10s):
First of all, if you did pen again, it's a matter of degree. If you're feeding people vegetables, fruits, and vegetables and they're not, and you take out all the shit, that's a pretty healthy diet. Yeah. Right there. Yeah. It's just not the healthiest diet I think you could eat, but it's a lot healthier than the standard American diet. So you're gonna get some good results on it. I'm merely saying and that the, the studies that we know that have actually reversed heart disease cut out all the shit and also limit oil or don't have any oil limit, total fat consumption and also limit animal foods. That's worked Now maybe others will work as well. As you say, we should do a study where they eat 30% of their calories in animal foods, cut out all the processed carbohydrates and see if that reverses heart disease.

4 (2h 30m 55s):
I agree. Let's do the study. But as far as I know, no study's been done. So that for now, based on what we know now, we do know that if you eat a whole foods plant based low fat diet, you can reverse your heart disease cuz it's been proven repeatedly.

0 (2h 31m 8s):
We do know that if you cut out all the shit that we know gives you heart disease, it will reverse heart disease. And if you eat whole foods along with that and exercise, you'll be healthier. What we don't know is that meat gives you cancer. We don't know is that meat gives you heart disease. I'm not saying that meat hurts you.

4 (2h 31m 25s):
First of all, I never said that meat gives you cancer,

0 (2h 31m 28s):
But you said that,

4 (2h 31m 29s):
I'm saying

0 (2h 31m 30s):
Plant-based diets has been shown to reverse heart disease. I don't think that's what we can say.

4 (2h 31m 34s):
I'm gonna send you, I'm gonna, I

0 (2h 31m 36s):
Think what we can say is that cutting out all the things that we know are very unhealthy, exercising and eating plants are probably good for it because they're whole foods.

4 (2h 31m 48s):
You can say that we, we aren't certain that the meat is a contributing factor, but we cannot say that the studies that have reversed, it didn't include meat. Now maybe meat was neutral, maybe it had nothing to do with it. So you might be right. I'm not saying you're wrong, but I'm saying that you don't have any studies on your side in reversing heart disease and the meat has been cut out along with the crap and heart disease gets reversed. Maybe meat had nothing to do with it. Maybe if they, if they kept the meat in, they still would reverse heart disease. But no, studies have shown that. That's all I'm saying.

0 (2h 32m 20s):
But this study is all changing lifestyle. It's not just a plant-based diet. That's

4 (2h 32m 27s):
Right. I'm not saying it is. I'm, I mean it's, well, that's the problem actually. Est, essel, essel studies, they only changed diet. Ornish changed. He had people moving and meditating. Essel, if you read, prevent reverse heart disease by Coldwell Essel in his studies, all he did was control for diet and that and it, and well, it's amazing statistic, the amount of people that reverse their heart disease. So we'll have to, we'll have to have a further conversation. I'm gonna send you, I'll send you some data and some stuff.

0 (2h 32m 59s):
I think the idea that meat is not but bad for you is a fairly recent idea. I think that people have been, first of all, you have to go back to the sugar industry bribing scientists to say that saturated fat and not sugar is what caused heart disease. And I'm sure you're aware of that.

4 (2h 33m 17s):
Right. I'm, I've had a debate with Nina, Ty Schultz, and I've argued with Gary Tobbs before. So I see it differently than they Do

0 (2h 33m 24s):
You see what differently? The, the fact that the sugar industry bribed scientists? No,

4 (2h 33m 28s):
That sugar,

0 (2h 33m 30s):
You know about that though, right?

4 (2h 33m 32s):
You're gonna have to read through my book.

0 (2h 33m 34s):
Okay. But before I do that, you know that the sugar industry has been proven to have bribed scientists to alter results so that they prove, well they're pointing to the idea that it was saturated fat that was causing heart disease instead of sugar.

4 (2h 33m 50s):
They're,

0 (2h 33m 51s):
You know about that, right?

4 (2h 33m 52s):
I I know that sugar's bad for people,

0 (2h 33m 54s):
But, but you know that scientists were bribed by the sugar industry. This has been proved. The New York Times wrote a whole story about it and we already said they never lie.

4 (2h 34m 4s):
I think we didn't quite come to that conclusion. That's

0 (2h 34m 6s):
What we said. But you do know that they did that, right? That it it has been proven that the

4 (2h 34m 11s):
No, I don't know that, I don't believe it's been proven that sugar causes heart disease. There might have been a bri

0 (2h 34m 17s):
That's not what I said. Yes. That's what I said. That, that the sugar industry bribed scientists to try to alter public opinion and show that it was saturated fat that was causing heart disease and take the blame off of sugar.

4 (2h 34m 33s):
Right. I do believe that saturated fat is a contributing factor to heart disease. And I believe the evidence is pretty overwhelming.

0 (2h 34m 40s):
50 years ago, sugar industry quietly paid scientists to point blame at fat. So what? Well, that's a big deal, man. It it changed the way people think about diet because people were saying, oh my God, saturated fat is giving you heart disease. I think it is, and they were poor. Okay. But this is why people started thinking this way. They were thinking this way because of the sugar industry, the sugar industry bribing scientists, regardless of whether or not

4 (2h 35m 7s):
Right now, regardless

0 (2h 35m 8s):
Now of whether or not we agree or disagree on anything else. You don't have to, don't think this is a giant issue.

4 (2h 35m 14s):
You don't think the dairy industry, the egg industry and the cattle industry bribe scientists. They, they, they do. I

0 (2h 35m 22s):
Would like you to show me some studies. Oh my God,

4 (2h 35m 23s):
Have

0 (2h 35m 25s):
They, you see how we can do this? They fund, see how we can both do this? Sure.

4 (2h 35m 28s):
They fund, they fund studies to

0 (2h 35m 31s):
Yes, they do

4 (2h 35m 32s):
In order to try to prove their products are healthy for

0 (2h 35m 34s):
People. They fund studies to try to prove their products are healthy. But do they bribe scientists to lie,

4 (2h 35m 40s):
Joe?

0 (2h 35m 40s):
If they do show

4 (2h 35m 41s):
Me, no one's defending the sugar industry. Right. I think you're, I think you're making a logical fallacy. The fact that the sugar industry acted unethically, that proves that saturated fat doesn't cause heart disease. No. Or contribute to it.

0 (2h 35m 53s):
It changes the perception of people when it comes to meat and health. It and it, and I think it did. And I think it has ever since then, the people saw this and read this and in their mind, meat became saturated fat. Saturated fat became heart disease and it became a dangerous thing to eat too much meat.

4 (2h 36m 11s):
So here's an interesting question for you. How much do you think total animal food consumption's gone up in the United States per capita in the last 80 years?

0 (2h 36m 23s):
I would assume it's probably pretty high.

4 (2h 36m 24s):
Yeah. It's gone way up

0 (2h 36m 25s):
Because we have more access to food, right. With factory farming and

4 (2h 36m 29s):
We're, we are eating

0 (2h 36m 30s):
Fast food.

4 (2h 36m 31s):
We are eating more animal foods than ever before.

0 (2h 36m 33s):
Right. We're also eating more so

4 (2h 36m 35s):
The sugar industry, the sugar industry failed. The sugar industry failed in its task to, to get people to stop eating

0 (2h 36m 41s):
Meat. No, it didn't because the task wasn't to try to get stop to people to stop eating meat. It was to get people to not worry about eating sugar and consume more sugar and not have any fear about the health consequences of consuming sugar. Because it wasn't sugar that was giving people heart disease. It was fat.

4 (2h 36m 56s):
Nobody's defending sugar in this discussion. I am certainly not defending sugar.

0 (2h 36m 60s):
Why They bribe people? They didn't bribe people so that people would hate fat. They bribe people so they would take the blame off of sugar.

4 (2h 37m 10s):
I, I, I already concede that point. But it doesn't make saturated fat good for people in large quantities. It's not. It's clearly not. And I will send you studies on it and actually I've got it in my book and I've got studies quoted in the book.

0 (2h 37m 25s):
So, well, I don't, I don't know if that's true. You know, I mean, there's been a lot of people that have eaten what they call it, carnivore diet and reversed a lot of symptoms that they've had with autoimmune diseases. And there's different people that have different reactions to foods. There's certain people that eat nuts and they get deathly ill. There's certain people that eat 'em and they, they, they're very healthy. It's true. Yeah. There's people that have vegan diets and they don't have any problems with it. And there's other people that have severe issues with it.

4 (2h 37m 56s):
That's true. There's diversity and there may not be one diet that's gonna solve all human problems.

0 (2h 38m 3s):
No, I don't think there is. I don't think anybody would say there is anybody that's being ethical and honest. I think human beings, biodiversity in human beings is pretty extreme. You know, depending upon where your ancestors came from, depending upon what body type and blood type, there's a lot of different issues. That's my problem. I don't think that you could say that a plant-based diet is the right diet for everybody or that it's good for everybody.

4 (2h 38m 25s):
I didn't say that. I don't say it in my book. No,

0 (2h 38m 27s):
You did say it's the only diet that's been shown to reverse heart disease and I don't really think it has.

4 (2h 38m 32s):
But the burden of I've, the burden of proof is to give me one study where it's not, where that's not true.

0 (2h 38m 37s):
Well,

4 (2h 38m 38s):
So I've, I've made the claim, I prove

0 (2h 38m 40s):
Me wrong. There's a lot of factors that led to reversing that heart disease. And I think when you look at all those factors, particularly the eliminating sugar that we know is a toxic substance, the adding of exercise, the eliminating of oils, all these different things that we know are not good for you, I think those are contributing factors. Yeah. If you wanted to say, it's been shown that a whole foods plant-based diet plus eliminating all these toxic things have been shown to reverse heart disease. I'd be right there with you. Good. The problem

4 (2h 39m 12s):
Is, that's,

0 (2h 39m 13s):
That's what I'm saying. Everybody eliminates that part, including you. No, you left that out. Well, when you said it, you said whole food, plant-based diet. You didn't say eliminating all these things that have known to sh that have been shown to cause heart disease.

4 (2h 39m 25s):
Sure. What is a Whole Foods diet?

0 (2h 39m 28s):
You go to Whole Foods and you fill your shopping cart. No,

4 (2h 39m 30s):
A whole food diet is actual whole foods, fruits, vegetables, beans. So it's not sugar, it's not oil. So when I say a whole Foods plant-based diet, I mean no sugar, no refined grains, no oil, none of the shit that you're talking about. That's what a Whole Foods

0 (2h 39m 48s):
Plus exercise. Yeah. Plus these people eliminated. Well, these things that they were eating before that gave them heart disease,

4 (2h 39m 54s):
Selten's studies were only dietary based. He did. It was a whole foods plant-based low fat diet. And if you read my chapter on heart disease and, and the Whole Foods diet, you know what, I'd love to have this conversation with you someti other time, but

0 (2h 40m 8s):
Even diet based, you're still eliminating all these toxic things.

4 (2h 40m 12s):
Exactly. Right. That's a good thing.

0 (2h 40m 15s):
So no one has proven that a whole Foods plant-based diet along with those toxic things, like if you, if you had all of the good foods that we know, whether it's, you know, animal foods, mollusks, all, all those different things, if, if we could just all come to an agreement, there's things that people eat that, that we've been eating particularly over the last few decades in this country that are just bad for you. Yeah, we agree. The problem is we get into these ideological discussions of meat versus plants. And this is where things people tend to sort of gravitate for towards one side or the other and ignore all the different, different aspects of this conversation.

0 (2h 40m 57s):
Like what we're talking about here with eliminating sugar exercise. If you said a whole foods plant-based diet plus adding exercise and eliminating foods that we know to be toxic is better for you. There's not a single person who's gonna argue that. The problem is, everybody says it's a whole food plant-based diet that this is what's doing the good. But it's, I think what's doing the good is a lot of things. So exercise, eliminating toxic foods like sugar and all those vegetable oils and all

4 (2h 41m 25s):
Bullshit, well, whole Foods diet eliminates those things. So that's redundant. You're, if it's a Whole Foods diet, it's not gonna have sugar refined grains or oil in it cuz those aren't whole foods.

0 (2h 41m 34s):
Understood. But the problem is,

4 (2h 41m 36s):
But what I do want, I'm gonna put those

0 (2h 41m 38s):
People, were taking those, those consuming those bad things before I,

4 (2h 41m 42s):
I want, I wanna put this challenge to you. I want you to just, cuz I think call with Selten's work on heart disease is worth looking at for you because he didn't do anything but diet. So he didn't have exercise in it. His program, he didn't have stress reduction, he didn't have meditation or anything else in there. He just had diet and it was a whole foods plant-based low fat diet. He did reverse heart disease. It's so he's

0 (2h 42m 5s):
But clearly eliminated all those other aspects

4 (2h 42m 8s):
Are, it's all whole foods plant-based diet. So no toxins cuz those aren't whole foods.

0 (2h 42m 12s):
Right.

4 (2h 42m 13s):
So let's see,

0 (2h 42m 14s):
Let me, the thing that's the convenient, that's the thing that's conveniently left out. You can say Whole Foods plant-based diet, but it's not just that it's eliminating toxic food. Yes. It's not just eating good food.

4 (2h 42m 26s):
So what we need to do, what you need to do or you need to come up with some evidence or somebody needs to, that you can throw in my face is a whole foods meat based diet has with eliminates all these toxins will also reverse heart disease. Right. If you can do that, then I'll, I we remember how we talked about beliefs earlier that they're just a pseudo close. You produce that evidence. And I'll take off the pseudo close cuz I, I'm actually about being intellectually having intellectual integrity. I've come to my conclusions based on my own dispassionate study. So if you produce the evidence, I'll probably change my mind. What do you think people are doing? I'm gonna get wrong.

0 (2h 43m 4s):
What do you think people are doing wrong when they're eating a vegan diet and they have all these health problems.

4 (2h 43m 8s):
They're eating a junk food, vegan diet. They're not eating a whole foods vegan diet. They're eating junk food. That's a, they're eating all these toxic foods that we're talking about. That's,

0 (2h 43m 17s):
But that's not everybody. Chris Hemsworth was eating like he was having vegan, he was having like plant-based shakes in the morning and eating whole foods and he started developing all these kidney stones and had a lot of problem with oxalates.

4 (2h 43m 32s):
I have no idea if he's having a lot of problem oxalates, chances are he was eating a lot of, a huge amount of green, green

0 (2h 43m 39s):
Leafy vegetables. Sure.

4 (2h 43m 40s):
That's it. Yeah. Those and eating in two large quantities has oxalates and it could, could cause problems in your kidneys. So all I know is that I've been doing

0 (2h 43m 49s):
This today. Wasn't Chris Hemsworth, it was Liam, right? Her brother. The other which, which one's? Thor?

4 (2h 43m 54s):
Thor's Chris.

0 (2h 43m 54s):
Yeah, it's the other one. Liam.

4 (2h 43m 57s):
Which one's Thor? I love it.

0 (2h 43m 59s):
You gotta go that way.

4 (2h 44m 1s):
So,

0 (2h 44m 3s):
But people,

4 (2h 44m 4s):
What we, Joe, what we agree on, let's go back to what we agree on. Okay. What we agree on is we should be not eating all this crap. Yes.

0 (2h 44m 10s):
Hundred

4 (2h 44m 11s):
Percent. We agree on that hundred percent. And I think we agree that we should eat lots of fruits and vegetables.

0 (2h 44m 16s):
Yes, yes, yes. Sure.

4 (2h 44m 19s):
Then we agree on 90% of it. Then it's the question of how much animal foods are good for us. And that's where we're, that's where we may differ, but probably we're not even that far apart there cuz I'm saying you can eat some animal foods and have a really healthy, healthy diet and lifestyle. It's a question of how much, and at some certain point I believe that the, the, the saturated fats, the cholesterol from the animal foods will begin to clog up your arteries. And it's not that they cause cancer, but they can be, I believe cancer promoters, at

0 (2h 44m 54s):
Least, you know, there has also been proven there's a big issue with eating cholesterol along with comp simple carbohydrates and things like,

4 (2h 45m 2s):
I'm, I'm with you on the processed foods since we agree on the simple carbohydrates. We don't, we don't have to argue about that anymore. You and I, we are simpatico we sync up on that. Cut the sugar out. Cut the cut. The what about oil? How do you feel about that one?

0 (2h 45m 16s):
Well, I'm not a big fan of vegetable oils. Good. Yeah.

4 (2h 45m 19s):
Is there any other kind of oil?

0 (2h 45m 21s):
Yeah, I mean, you could have animal-based oils. I mean, you could, I I actually cook and beef towel.

4 (2h 45m 26s):
Oh, you mean like booth beef towel and butter? Yeah. I was thinking those weren't oils, but they're fat for sure.

0 (2h 45m 31s):
Yeah. Well, beef towel renders down into oil. Right. It's, I think that there's a lot of people consuming a lot of processed shit. And I think this is where we absolutely meet in the middle, whether it's vegetable processed shit. Like I have a friend who's vegan who eats all kinds of wacky vegan delights, all these little treats and all this. I'm like, read this fucking ingredients. What's garbage? Preservatives and nonsense. And, but it's vegan so it's, it's ideologically acceptable. Right. You know, things fall into these, they fall into these little groups like this, this, this aligns with my religion. So I'm gonna eat this. There are

4 (2h 46m 10s):
Plenty on the, on the paleo keto, there's lots of little groups on the animal food side too. Sure. So everybody, it's almost like diet. In fact, this might be a more interesting discussion than you and I batting each other on about this one. It's interesting to me how many sort of little cults there are in food now there are all these little nutritional food cults and it's, it's, and everybody thinks they're right. It's almost like a religion. Well, because diet is religion. You're

0 (2h 46m 39s):
Eating one way and you hope you're right. And if you, you know, the problem with eating right, is that if you're eating something and it's good for you, it takes a while before you feel it. You're not sure. And then also there's a mind fuck going on. You know, a lot of people that get into a certain diet, whether it's keto or other, I tried keto for a while. There's, there's certain things that you do where you start mind-fuck yourself, that you're on the right path. And I, I do feel better. I feel better. But you know, there's people that do that with faith healing. You know, it's hard for people to decide what makes them feel better. There's holistic fake medicines that people like. What is that stuff called?

0 (2h 47m 20s):
What are those homeopathic, homeopathic medicines that they're fucking sugar pills. There's literally nothing to them. And yet people take 'em. They, they claim they feel better. Chiropractors. Oh, I feel better. I feel better.

4 (2h 47m 32s):
Well, I do see a chiropractor and I do feel better. Do

0 (2h 47m 34s):
You know where, how chiropractors are invented?

4 (2h 47m 36s):
It doesn't matter.

0 (2h 47m 37s):
A magnetic healer who came up with it in a seance in the 18 hundreds came up with this idea that by adjusting people's spines, you're gonna fix all these illnesses. And so do you know that when you go to a chiropractor, you

4 (2h 47m 48s):
Know where doctors came from? They used to bleed people,

0 (2h 47m 50s):
But they don't anymore. You know that right? Do you know the chiropractors doctors? Like when you go to a doctor of chiropractic, they, how much time do you think they spent in medical school?

4 (2h 47m 59s):
Well, they didn't go to medical school.

0 (2h 47m 60s):
They go to zero zero medical school. How

4 (2h 48m 3s):
Many, how many nutrition classes did doctors take in medical school?

0 (2h 48m 6s):
They don't take much. About eight hours. Not, but that's why you go to a nutritionist and not a standard American doctor. But when you go to a chiropractor, they call themselves a doctor

4 (2h 48m 15s):
Or they're a doctor of chiropractic. Right.

0 (2h 48m 16s):
And it was invented by a magnetic healer who is killed by his son. His son ran him over in a car. His son was a conman. And that's the guy who went up spreading this whole religion of chiropractic medicine. I don't adjusting babies and shit. I don't

4 (2h 48m 29s):
That it's, I don't think it's religion. But clearly you don't go to chiropractors. I've been, I do. I've had, I've had good, I had saw chiropractor today, in fact.

0 (2h 48m 36s):
Yeah, it feels good. Right? Crack, crack, pop, pop. It feels like something, but it's, this feels good too. I just did that with my knuckles. I, I chiropractor, my knuckles.

4 (2h 48m 47s):
I can't do that anymore. Can't

0 (2h 48m 48s):
They just did it. Oh, I did. There you

4 (2h 48m 50s):
Go. Wow. How about that? Wow. Amazing.

0 (2h 48m 52s):
But you, my point is that there's no evidence that that is doing anything to you physically. If you go to a doctor, okay. And you have a serious issue, like you've got a broken arm and they have to put, you know, plates in it and screw it in place and put it in a cast, there's real evidence that that works. They've shown it. They've healed people.

4 (2h 49m 12s):
Yeah. So doctors can are pretty good at healing bones. They're not too good with cancer. They're not too good with heart disease.

0 (2h 49m 20s):
They're a lot better with cancer than they've ever been, ever in history. They're, they're, they're closing in on fixing that. And in fact, there was an article just today that there was, I think it's in Israel, they figured out a way to have genes that actively go after, like surgically go after cancer. There was an article in, was it Scientific American? There was an article today about a fantastic breakthrough in cancer therapy. Crispr. Crispr yes. They're using CRISPR to do this. And they figured out a way to actively target the way they described it was surgical revolutionary.

0 (2h 50m 4s):
Yeah. CRISPR based genome editing system treatment destroys cancer cells breakthrough may increase life expectancy in brain and ovarian cancer. See? So you can't say that doctors are not good at treating cancer because they're constantly working on it. They're they're

4 (2h 50m 20s):
Making,

0 (2h 50m 21s):
But they're breakthroughs like this all the time. That's

4 (2h 50m 24s):
Just a theoretical breakthrough. And I hope it's correct, but hey Joe, here's the reality.

0 (2h 50m 29s):
Re hold on. That's not theoretical. Researchers have demonstrated that CRISPR ca nine system is very effective in treating metastatic cancers a significant step on the way f to finding a cure for cancer. The researchers developed a novel lipid, nanoparticle based delivery system that specifically targets cancer cells and destroys them by b genetic manipulation. They, they, they practice this on animals. This is not like a theory, this is something they're actually doing with crispr.

4 (2h 50m 60s):
I'm, I'm all for it, but I haven't seen it yet. Mind mind you, you

0 (2h 51m 4s):
Should look around.

4 (2h 51m 4s):
Mind you. I, well, here's the reality. The reality is, is that we spend 80% of our healthcare dollars on lifestyle dietary diseases. The doctors can't help us with it all. You can say there's a cure for cancer. The best way is to have a strong immune system because we get cancer all the time and our immune system just deals with it.

0 (2h 51m 25s):
Yeah. But there's babies that get cancer, you know, like cancer is a genetic issue. Sometimes people have a a, a systemic, like their, their, their body has a vulnerability to cancers.

4 (2h 51m 36s):
And the reality is you

0 (2h 51m 37s):
Can't say to that baby, suck it up and have a better diet. All

4 (2h 51m 40s):
All biological carbon-based lifeforms have a propensity or animals have a propensity to cancer. Right.

0 (2h 51m 46s):
But that's why it's fascinating when doctors and researchers can come up with treatments, novel treatments like this. So to say that doctors and chiropractors are on the same tier. I didn't say that, but you, that's the example you used when I was talking about how chiropractors are full of shit.

4 (2h 52m 6s):
I don't, I don't have the same, I don't hold doctors in the same high esteem that you do. I've worked with lots of doctors and they generally don't know what they're talking about. Oh. Oh

0 (2h 52m 15s):
Man. How can you say that? There's so many doctors that are experts in their field that have helped

4 (2h 52m 19s):
People. You know, you were talking about the sugar industry bribing somebody, the pharmaceutical industry bribes doctors every single year. All their continuing education are these junkets to golf, golf resorts. And where they get continuing education about the new wonders of these drugs that, except for vaccinations and antibiotics, most of these drugs don't cure anything. They just deal with symptoms.

0 (2h 52m 46s):
Well, I agree with you on that, and I agree with you that there is a gigantic problem with pharmaceutical industries having influence over doctors. My wife's mom's a nurse and she would tell us stories about how these pharmaceutical companies would take everybody out to dinner in these fancy restaurants and pay for everything. And they weren't bribing you, but they kind of were That

4 (2h 53m 7s):
Is kind of a bribe.

0 (2h 53m 8s):
It's kind of a bribe. And they would let you know, like, Hey, you know, if someone comes in and they got this problem, we got this. And

4 (2h 53m 15s):
Reciprocity. I do you a favor. Yeah, you do me a favor.

0 (2h 53m 17s):
Yeah. It's sneaky. And they sneaky, they'd send you on trips and you know, you'd go on these conferences that these pharmaceutical companies would put together. No, I agree with you. There's, there's certainly some influence that the pharmaceutical companies have over doctors and certainly there's, there's an unpleasant exchange that goes on between them. But to say that doctors aren't doing any good is crazy.

4 (2h 53m 42s):
I didn't say they aren't doing any good. You're, I I I didn't say,

0 (2h 53m 45s):
What did you say? How'd you say it? I

4 (2h 53m 47s):
Ju I just said I think

0 (2h 53m 48s):
You don't have a lot of faith in them.

4 (2h 53m 50s):
Yeah, I I mean for if you have, look doctors, if you have first aid, if I, if I have cuts and I need stitches, I want to, I want to

0 (2h 53m 59s):
Orthopedic surgeon, if you have a blown knee,

4 (2h 54m 1s):
Absolutely. Hey, I've had both of my hips resurfaced.

0 (2h 54m 5s):
Oh, you have?

4 (2h 54m 7s):
And I found the best surgeon in America, I think to do, to do that. So how'd

0 (2h 54m 11s):
You blow out your hips?

4 (2h 54m 12s):
You know, we don't really know. Probably the doctor thought I played competitive basketball in high school, college and city league for years. And he thinks that I had a, I was really small when I, when I got to high school, I was only five feet tall. And then I grew about a foot in a couple of years. And he says that there's a disease that when you're growing that rapidly, and if you have a lot of contact in the hip area, like you might get from martial arts Oh. Or, or you might get from football or basketball from jumping and all that lateral movement that my hips were not quite in the socket. So my cartilage wore out prematurely and I was bone on bone when I got the surgeries done.

4 (2h 54m 54s):
But you know what a miracle. I don't have any real pain in my hips for occasionally, but for the most part I'm, I'm pain free doctors Yeah. Surgeries just to make clear surgeons. I mean, if you need surgery, you need first aid, like a broken bone.

0 (2h 55m 11s):
I think, I think we're on the same page. What you're saying is that doctors over-prescribe medication. Correct. And under prescribed healthy living and diet and doing all the things that we know to be positive Exactly. For the, for the human body. Exactly. No, I, I, I agree with you because

4 (2h 55m 27s):
I don't get enough training in, I don't get enough training in, in, in healthy living.

0 (2h 55m 32s):
No, that's a fact. Like I, I had a conversation with the doctor where he is telling me you don't need vitamin supplementation. You just, you know, just eat a good diet. What's a good diet where you're gonna get vitamin D three?

4 (2h 55m 42s):
Our business model that I'm kicking around investing in would be a business model where you have doctors and you have a whole team. So Joe Rogan goes in there, we do a complete workup of everything about your blood, your total health, and then we begin to customize our ideas to get you to live an extra 10 or 15 years and increase your health span. How can we optimize Joe Rogan, how can we optimize your health and wellbeing and a team of people that are working with you, studying you, you're paying a monthly fee to get this, it's kind of concierge medicine, but not just dealing with getting a prescription from this doc so you can get your Viagra or whatever from the doctor. It'd be about, about them optimizing your long-term health and wellbeing.

4 (2h 56m 25s):
I think that could be, I think that is gonna be a big future business model

0 (2h 56m 28s):
Then you would have to have people actually go out and do things like Mike, you're gonna have to work out. Yes.

4 (2h 56m 35s):
Well think about it. We have personal trainers, we have executive coaches that corporate leaders frequently get. Why not have a wellness coach who's with a team of a doctor and wellness coaches who are helping you to optimize your absolute peak performance that you can get. Have

0 (2h 56m 53s):
You ever thought about implementing something like that for employees at Whole Foods?

4 (2h 56m 57s):
I have thought about that. It's pretty expensive to do it.

0 (2h 56m 60s):
Yeah. That would be the problem. Right.

4 (2h 57m 1s):
One thing we do at Whole Foods though, if you work for the company, we gave you a 20% discount for in being a team member. But then we measure your four biometrics. If you're interested to get a higher discount, you're, if you don't smoke, if you smoke, you're, if you, we detect nicotine in your blood, then you're out. You can't, we don't. And then it's about your body mass index and a man as big and it's you, we do a height to waist ratio so that you wouldn't be penalized for being

0 (2h 57m 28s):
Yeah, I'm obese

4 (2h 57m 30s):
By a BMI measurement, but, but not by a height to rate waist ratio. So we do it both ways and give you the benefit of whichever one you get the best score on.

0 (2h 57m 37s):
Why don't just do their body fat so you know that

4 (2h 57m 39s):
It's just muscle hard, hard, a little harder to measure because the cost of doing the tests. The

0 (2h 57m 44s):
Cas

4 (2h 57m 46s):
Yeah. That's,

0 (2h 57m 47s):
It's not that big a deal. And they also, they've things now that electro magnet or whatever it is Yeah. Scales hold onto these handles and it shoots

4 (2h 57m 56s):
Well maybe we need to examine how we could do that more effectively. Yeah. But we also do blood pressure and cholesterol and then, and then based on how you score on those, you can get up to a 30% discount based on your overall health. So we create an incentive for our people to be out

0 (2h 58m 11s):
Here. Oh, that's great. So the people that shop at Whole Foods that work there get a giant discount. They get

4 (2h 58m 16s):
Already get a, they already get a giant discount at 20%.

0 (2h 58m 19s):
They can get an additional 10% if they're healthy. Yeah.

4 (2h 58m 21s):
They, they could get, we have four different levels. We call a a bronze, silver, and gold levels.

0 (2h 58m 27s):
What do you have to do to get gold?

4 (2h 58m 30s):
What do you have to do? You have to have a, a BMI that's under 24 cholesterol that's either total cholesterol under one 50 or LDL under 80. I think

0 (2h 58m 42s):
That's a, that's a hot button. Debate. Blood

4 (2h 58m 44s):
Blood pressure. I, I think, I don't wanna have that debate with you right now.

0 (2h 58m 49s):
No, it's not me, man. It's a carnivore md. This guy Paul Saladino had this and col

4 (2h 58m 54s):
And then blood pressure under one 15 under 75, 1 15 under 75.

0 (2h 58m 59s):
And what do you get if you hit gold

4 (2h 59m 1s):
To get gold? Your blood pressure 1 20 80, your cholesterol.

0 (2h 59m 5s):
No, but what do you get like in for?

4 (2h 59m 7s):
Oh, for gold you're gonna get a plat bronze, silver, gold plat. Platinum. Platinum, platinum. Platinum's the highest level. You get 30% discount. Oh,

0 (2h 59m 15s):
That's a, that's a sweet discount.

4 (2h 59m 17s):
Gold's 27. Oh, okay. Silvers 24 and 22 for bronze.

0 (2h 59m 22s):
That's nice. So you incentivize people to make healthy choices. Do you give them any sort of a gym membership or something along those lines that would help? Right,

4 (2h 59m 30s):
That's a good idea. We haven't done that. Yeah.

0 (2h 59m 32s):
What if, what if you had a thing at Whole Foods where you had a small gym attached to Whole Foods where you offered classes for employees? Take some of that Jeff Bezos money. Yeah.

4 (2h 59m 44s):
The problem is in action. The problem is we actually do locate close to gyms and sometimes our stores work out, deals with the gyms to consent people to use the

0 (2h 59m 53s):
Gyms. Oh, that's great.

4 (2h 59m 54s):
But having, having a gym onto every store would be expensive. We, we don't even have one in our corporate offices. Although we're thinking about how

0 (3h 0m 2s):
Do you not have a gym in your corporate office?

4 (3h 0m 4s):
I think it's the egalitarian culture. Would it be fair for the people at Global support to have a gym when the people in the stores don't have one?

0 (3h 0m 12s):
Mm, I understand. But

4 (3h 0m 13s):
We have the same benefits for all our team members, regardless of where they work. Oh really?

0 (3h 0m 17s):
Yeah. Oh, that's very nice.

4 (3h 0m 19s):
If you're a cashier at Whole Foods, you've got the same benefits. I do.

0 (3h 0m 22s):
What do you do personally in terms of exercise and, and to make sure that you stay healthy? So

4 (3h 0m 30s):
When I was younger, I played competitive basketball and I was a runner for a long time. And now I'm a long distance backpacker.

0 (3h 0m 39s):
Ah, you're rucking. Yep.

4 (3h 0m 40s):
I've I've hiked the Appalachian Trail twice. Have

0 (3h 0m 43s):
You really? I hiked Jesus Christ

4 (3h 0m 45s):
Pacific Crest Trail one. How

0 (3h 0m 46s):
Isn't that like months?

4 (3h 0m 48s):
The first time I did it, I took a, I took a sabbatical in four and a half months.

0 (3h 0m 53s):
You took a four and a half month sabbatical. Took walk.

4 (3h 0m 56s):
Yeah, it was great. It was so fun. That's so crazy. I made a ton of friends. The guys I met on that trail I still go hiking with every year. Really? In 2000, you, it's kinda like being in the Marines. You have this deep bonding you have with people.

0 (3h 1m 8s):
Well, you know, you're walking all the way across the continent

4 (3h 1m 11s):
And Joe, you get so frigging fit. Oh,

0 (3h 1m 14s):
It imagine

4 (3h 1m 14s):
I got, even when I got into Maine, I was still getting fitter. But you know what, as soon as you stop hiking 10 hours a day goes away, it goes away pretty quickly. Yeah, yeah.

0 (3h 1m 23s):
I've traveled with people that work on ranches and you try to keep up with them and like your, you just, your ankles wanna fall off because

4 (3h 1m 30s):
They're moving all the time.

0 (3h 1m 30s):
They're constantly doing it. They're, there's, it's, and for them, it's not even a workout. It's a normal part of their everyday life. So their legs are just totally conditioned to be able to hike up those hills and, and, and walk constantly. People don't realize like how difficult hiking is. It's like, what do you do for exercise? Oh, I go hiking. Like, oh, slacker. Like, hiking is hard, man. It

4 (3h 1m 52s):
Depends on how, how it could be. If you go for a 30 minute walk around, the neighborhood is not too hard.

0 (3h 1m 58s):
But the Appalachian trail, that is another level. You know,

4 (3h 2m 1s):
It's, it's, it's wonderful. I love being out in nature. That's, if you ask me what my f favorite form of recreation is, it's getting out into nature in some form or fashion. I, I love, I love hiking and I love long distance backpacking and I do it ultra light. So I mean, it's like I've got it down to a science.

0 (3h 2m 17s):
So when you say backpacking, so you're sleeping out there in the wilderness? Oh, I'm camping the whole deal. Yeah,

4 (3h 2m 22s):
Absolutely.

0 (3h 2m 23s):
Now there's not a lot of CEOs that are willing to do that.

4 (3h 2m 26s):
I, I, I don't know, but remember the other second time I hiked it, I did it in over four years because I couldn't take that much time off. When I retire sometime the next few years, if he's gonna go hiking, I'm gonna go hiking a lot. Be beyond those trails.

0 (3h 2m 41s):
There's so many people right now that are aspiring CEOs that wanna be some big time baller like you. And they hear this and like, oh, when, when when I retire I'm gonna go walking. They're like, fuck you. Well, you're supposed to be out there bawling. You're supposed to be on a yacht and doing crazy shit. Well,

4 (3h 2m 58s):
I'm may do some of that too, but not mutually exclusive. I can only, I can't hike 12 months a year. So

0 (3h 3m 3s):
I like that

4 (3h 3m 3s):
I can do some of that other stuff too,

0 (3h 3m 4s):
That they're not mutually exclusive. Now when you do it, do you ultralight camp too? You bring like a very light Yeah. Tent and

4 (3h 3m 10s):
Yeah, so like my base weight before food and water is about six and a half pounds. And so that's pretty light. And my tent weighs 12 ounces. My backpack itself weighs about 14 ounces and my sleeping bag's gonna weigh about 20, 21 ounces.

0 (3h 3m 32s):
And how do you know how much food to bring? And do you I've got that time out, like

4 (3h 3m 36s):
How far you're walking, you have to plan it out. So, and, and when you're gonna resupply. But in general, I'm gonna consume about pound and a half to two pounds of food a day. And so I have to, and I, I've just, I know how much I need to take each day.

0 (3h 3m 50s):
What do you bring? Do you bring bars? Do you bring whole food? Like what do you bring

4 (3h 3m 54s):
In the first couple days? I'll, I'll definitely take some whole foods like apples, maybe even some snap peas and some

0 (3h 4m 2s):
Peanut butters and stuff like that. Yeah. I do high

4 (3h 4m 4s):
Calories. I do, I do a lot of high calorie stuff here. Yeah. I, I do a lot of nut butters, trail mix. I al I also avocados some, you know, whole food, whole grain crackers, things like that.

0 (3h 4m 21s):
But then once you're a few days in, you kind of can't do that anymore because you're not don't have access to supermarkets.

4 (3h 4m 26s):
Yeah. I also might take a sandwich out for the first day or some hummus or something like that. Why

0 (3h 4m 31s):
Don't you have dudes parachute you healthy foods down?

4 (3h 4m 33s):
Well what I'll, what I will actually do is, what most people do is they, they mail drops, have somebody mail, drop the food. And what, what I generally do is, is I usually have a car support that I meet up with every once or twice a week and get resupply that one.

0 (3h 4m 50s):
Oh, okay. That's a good movie. And

4 (3h 4m 52s):
I have to say, I'd like to spend one, take one day a week off and go into a town, get a massage, eat some town food, which tastes really good after you've been on the trail food for

0 (3h 5m 3s):
A while. Is it hard to find vegetarian foods when you go to these towns? You

4 (3h 5m 7s):
Know, it, I would say it used to be when I, when I, I hiked the Appalachian trail the first time in 2002, so it was pretty hard back then. But there's, there's plant-based foods everywhere now.

0 (3h 5m 15s):
But if you're exhausted, don't you wanna meatloaf graving?

4 (3h 5m 18s):
I, I know this will surprise you, but I have, I have lost my taste for it.

0 (3h 5m 22s):
No, it's not surprising at all when you get used to certain types of diets. Like that's what your body seems to craving.

4 (3h 5m 27s):
Right? Yeah, no, that's one of the big learnings I have about food in general is we will, like whatever food we eat. So we, I've reeducated my palate. When I was a kid, I ate the standard American diet junk food. Right. I just ate crap. Cocoa puffs for breakfast, sweet rolls, burgers and fries, shakes, you know, the stuff that still most Americans eat. And I didn't eat any, any vegetables at all. None. Zero, none pickles on a burger. That was it.

0 (3h 5m 58s):
Wow.

4 (3h 5m 59s):
And then that's hardcore. Yeah. But then when I, when I began to wake up dietarily and nutritionally, I taught myself to like every type of plant food. I like every kind of plant food because once you expose your pallet to a food about 10 times or so, you'll start to like it.

0 (3h 6m 14s):
Well I would 100% say that the, the standard American diet's fucking terrible for you. I think that the, it's a, a real problem and access and people are hungry. If you're just driving around, they should have some sort of a vegetarian based fast food that's good for you. How come no one's figured that out yet? Because there's all these Jack in the box. And

4 (3h 6m 36s):
So a couple of McDonald's, a couple of points. It's a real problem because statistically now 70% of Americans adults are overweight. And 42 and a half percent of Americans are obese. 42 and half percent. That's crazy. That's crazy. It's almost 50%. That's a crazy number. And it, and by the way, it's getting worse. We have not peaked yet. It could be 50% in another five or six or seven years. It's incredible.

0 (3h 7m 2s):
So we're ex We're escalating. Yes,

4 (3h 7m 5s):
We're escalating. This is a, this is a crisis in America. We are eating ourselves to death. And it's mostly the things we agree about. Yeah. Junk. Yeah. Sugar.

0 (3h 7m 14s):
Sugar. Garbage.

4 (3h 7m 15s):
Garbage. Yeah. Sugar. So here's, here's what I believe evolutionary is what, what's happened to humanity? So when we were out foraging, which we did for tens of thousands, not hundreds of thousands of years, when we're hundreds and gatherers or gatherers and hunters, our real problem was getting enough food. That's always been humanity's major problem. And so we've evolved a pallet that craves calorie dense foods. We like food that has a lot of calories in it. It tastes really good and, but we just couldn't get it in nature. Maybe you could occasionally get, you could pull down a, a wild game occasionally you can hunt it, eat it, gorge on it cuz you'd eat as much as you could cuz you couldn't preserve it.

4 (3h 7m 57s):
Well it still was kind of lean gamey stuff, right. Because they weren't f they weren't being fated up on corn like the, like the pork and, and chickens and beef that we eat today. Or we get honey for example. We might get a couple hundred bee stings if we could get that delicious honey. But it was just scarce. And so we crave it and that's our problem. That's our genetics are working against us cuz we can eat calorie dense food every single meal every day of our lives. And we just get fatter and fatter and fatter. And that's our, that's our existential dilemma that not just Americans, the whole world.

0 (3h 8m 39s):
Yeah. It's

4 (3h 8m 39s):
Crazy cause we've exported the American diet across the world.

0 (3h 8m 43s):
Somebody said this to me once and it really resonated like that. This is the only time ever where poor people are

4 (3h 8m 49s):
Fat. Exactly.

0 (3h 8m 50s):
There's never been a time in history where you could be poor and fat. It used

4 (3h 8m 54s):
To be the rich people were fat and the poor people get the traditional diet. Yeah. And they were not getting enough calories. So they were thin. It's almost reversed itself today. A lot of them were richer people. They hire personal trainers, they've learned more about food. They eat whole foods, whether it be plant-based or meats or both. And they just take care, better care of themselves.

0 (3h 9m 15s):
It's such a catch 22 for folks too, because when you're tired and you're exhausted, and a lot of times when people have poor nutrition, they're tired and they're exhausted. It's very difficult to manage your, your appetite. Like when I'm tired, I have to stay the fuck outta the kitchen that's with me. Like last night I was tired. I worked out pretty hard and I'm a glutton, I have a real problem. I eat way too much. I just sit down, I'll gorge myself and, and I'm like, stop, stop. When I keep eating, especially pasta, I have a giant problem with pasta. I will just get fat as fuck. If I can eat all the pasta I want. I don't, I I just can't stop myself. Like if I have a big bowl of spaghetti, I just keep shoving it in my face.

0 (3h 9m 58s):
Even after I'm full. If I eat meat, I will stop when I'm full. Like it's, it's, it's the, the satiety, whatever it is, you know, the, the whatever causes you to be satisfied by consuming it. Sure. I'm good. But fucking pasta. I will just keep going. So,

4 (3h 10m 15s):
So if you're eating typical white pasta, that's a calorie, very calorie dense food doesn't have any fiber in it. I think part of what creates satiety is fiber. So, and when you're eating lots of fruits, vegetables, then

0 (3h 10m 30s):
Why does steak make you so satisfied?

4 (3h 10m 32s):
That's because of the, the the, the fat also creates satiety. If, if we don't eat it too fast. So we, we get, it's like this fat sends a signal to our systems to say, wow, that's, that's a big load I've got in there. So fat does a similar type thing. Fiber does it though, without the calorie load. So I eat, I eat a, I eat a lot, I also eat a lot of food, but I've just, I'm just eating a lot of fiber.

0 (3h 11m 3s):
I bet if you and I sat down, you'd be astonished at how much I eat. When you think a lot, what you think of it as a lot. I eat a stupid amount of food, man.

4 (3h 11m 12s):
Well, you're, you're, you're working it off somehow or another,

0 (3h 11m 15s):
Somehow barely. I exercise sometimes just to keep from getting too fat. But my problem, my, my number one problem is pasta. There is something about that food in particular. Pasta with tomato sauce. I can just eat it until I explode.

4 (3h 11m 31s):
You need to keep that outta your house then.

0 (3h 11m 33s):
Yeah, I should, but I don't, I That's also a problem. I shop when I'm hungry. Yeah. That's not good, huh? You,

4 (3h 11m 39s):
You are, you are, you are just the kind of customer Whole foods likes.

0 (3h 11m 44s):
Yeah. I walked down that cookie aisle. You guys have some awesome vegan cookies by

4 (3h 11m 48s):
The way. This is why you're, you, you see that this, you're tempted by these foods that are actually really unhealthy for you. Yeah, I think, I think this, this is good because we all are. Yeah. We are tempted. We're tempted by these calorie dense foods. But once you're aware that calorie density isn't our friend, then we can start making different choices.

0 (3h 12m 7s):
You guys have these vegan cookies. Who makes these goddamn cookies? It's like auntie something's. They're coming a brown paper bag. Uncle

4 (3h 12m 16s):
Eddie's Uncle Eddie's vegan cookies. No, you got, I think it's an

0 (3h 12m 20s):
Auntie, well maybe I'm

4 (3h 12m 22s):
Wrong. There is an Uncle Eddie vegan chip.

0 (3h 12m 24s):
Is it Uncle Eddie? And

4 (3h 12m 25s):
A brown bag Uncle Eddie.

0 (3h 12m 26s):
Can I get, maybe it is. Uncle Eddie's there. It's chop. That's it. Those those, there's a peanut butter chocolate chip one. That is why didn't I think it was auntie? Because I assume that's a woman because they say so good. I assume it's like someone's aunt cooking

4 (3h 12m 41s):
It. So, so you'll like this. The only time I really eat that food is when I'm going on a long distance hike and trying to get enough calories is a problem cuz I'm hiking 10, 12 hours a day and I'm burning 5,000 calories and I've gotta, I gotta get more calories than me. My, my wife says, John, you should admit to the world that the really, the only reason you like to go backpacking is because it gives you the excuse that you crave to eat crappy food. That's

0 (3h 13m 10s):
Not crappy. They're delicious. They're just not something you should eat all the time. They're just not healthy. Find the peanut butter chocolate chip ones. Those are the jam. I, I eat those with whole milk. Big glass of milk and dunk those suckers in there. I know you don't fuck with milk, but

4 (3h 13m 24s):
I hate to tell you this, but you know, when I get, when I need a snack like that, I just eat an apple.

0 (3h 13m 29s):
Oh, how boring. Oh,

4 (3h 13m 31s):
Apples are, apples are so good. I love

0 (3h 13m 33s):
Apples. Listen, I'm just joking. I eat apples before I work out. It's my favorite pre-workout food because I work out generally early in the morning. And if I'm tired and I'm like, God, I need something, I need something, I almost always go with an apple. That's it right there. Look at that. Those are the ones. And if you're a vegan, you could partake, you won't have the milk. You, you could drink it with some bullshit almond milk. What is that crazy cursor you doing there? I,

7 (3h 13m 59s):
I just zoomed in instead of taking the Oh, I see. The way it seems in there.

0 (3h 14m 2s):
Look how good that is. Those are so good. Those are, those are very good. And but with

4 (3h 14m 7s):
Joe, that's, that's your enemy.

0 (3h 14m 9s):
It is, it is my enemy.

4 (3h 14m 10s):
Uncle Eddie is not your friend.

0 (3h 14m 12s):
Well, I don't have it a lot, but I, I do if

4 (3h 14m 15s):
I'm hungry. She said you come home and I start devouring pasta and then

0 (3h 14m 18s):
I Yeah. Pasta. I don't, I have that stuff once, maybe twice a year. I'll, I'll eat a bag of those. Like a whole bag. That's the problem. What

4 (3h 14m 26s):
Else are you putting on your, what else you putting on your pasta?

0 (3h 14m 29s):
Just garlic and tomato sauce. That's really what I like.

4 (3h 14m 33s):
Are you using like a whole grain pasta? You should use a whole grain pasta. No,

0 (3h 14m 37s):
No, no, no. It's, I'm eating what's bad for me. I'm not itching What I'm eating pasta. I generally buy, what is it? Double zero pasta from Italy. I try to buy, I order it from Amazon.

4 (3h 14m 50s):
Is that Italian your background? Yes. So you could got that. You got that excuse. You got the genetic excuse.

0 (3h 14m 55s):
Yeah. I don't have the desire to cook lasagna. And I'm very fortunate that I don't have that desire. Cause every now and then my wife will make lasagna. And I, if I come home, like, especially if it's late at night and I've just done standup and I, I find lasagna in the fridge that lasagna doesn't have a fucking chance it's going down. But I know it's bad for me, you know. I know. But those, you know, carbohydrates in large, just large quantities like that I know

4 (3h 15m 25s):
Is bad for

0 (3h 15m 26s):
Me.

4 (3h 15m 26s):
You probably won't want to do this. But my wife and I, we eat, we eat a brown rice pasta. Oh, oh Christ tastes really good. And, and then homemade delicious pasta sauce. A lot of garlic and onions and mushrooms. And then we'll add that Sounds good. We'll add veggies on top of the pasta and then we'll drown it in the sauce. Mmm. It's really delicious. It's not that many calories.

0 (3h 15m 51s):
That doesn't sound too bad. I actually like hemp pasta. I've been eating a lot of hemp past.

4 (3h 15m 55s):
I've never, I've never had he pasta.

0 (3h 15m 56s):
It's very good. Really? Yeah, it's guilt-free. Yeah. So it doesn't doesn't feel real nearly as bad for you. But it's something I like about knowing that it's bad for him.

4 (3h 16m 5s):
Is it really hemp pasta? It's just white pasta has a little bit of hemp seed in it.

0 (3h 16m 9s):
No, it's hemp. It's green. It's like a green pasta. Really? Yeah. Yeah. There's a, a few different brands that I purchased. I wish I could remember the name, but I do not have it offhand. But again, I buy that on Amazon.

4 (3h 16m 21s):
I love, I love hemp seeds, so I might

0 (3h 16m 22s):
Try that. Oh, I love hemp seeds. I love hemp protein. Hemp protein powders. Fantastic. I use,

4 (3h 16m 26s):
I use hemp seeds in my smoothies. Mm.

0 (3h 16m 29s):
It's good stuff. Yeah. And it's easy to digest and it's, it's got all the amino acids. It's one of the best, most complete proteins in terms of plants. I know. Yeah. That's

4 (3h 16m 37s):
Why it's, that's why I

0 (3h 16m 38s):
Take, it's super easy for your body to, to digest. There's something about hemp protein. Like if I know I have to work out in an hour, I hesitate with some forms of protein. Like for specifically whey like whey my body doesn't digest that well tastes pretty good. Like you can get a lot of like delicious whey protein supplements like powders and stuff. But it's a gas factory. It's, it's

4 (3h 17m 2s):
Rumbling in your stomach. May not agree with your particular bacteria. You know, cause the gas and all that stuff. You know, we, we have a microbiome that's increasingly become aware how important that is for our health. Yeah. Like people that say they can't digest beans, I say well it's cuz you've gotta feed the bacteria that digest beans. So if you always avoid beans, you're not growing the bacteria to digest the beans. But

0 (3h 17m 24s):
Aren't there some people that just have a genetic propensity to have a

4 (3h 17m 28s):
Issue? There's a, I'm sure there's a genetic propensity for pretty much everything. So there's, that's a definite yes. I, cause I have

0 (3h 17m 34s):
People that just can't fuck with beans at

4 (3h 17m 36s):
All. Well, but what I, if I was their coach, I would say, you know what, beans are really healthy foods. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna first start with lentils. We're gonna just, we're gonna have you eat a couple tablespoons of lentils today. And then we're gonna, what'll happen over time is you feed the microbiome and you'll get the type of bacteria that we'll be able to digest legumes. And for example, I haven't had meat so long that if I probably tried to eat some meat, I'd probably wouldn't be able to digest it.

0 (3h 18m 2s):
You'd probably be an ecstasy, a cookie of a elk steak. I

4 (3h 18m 5s):
I might have enjoyed eating it, but my digestive system wouldn't be able to handle it cuz I don't have the bacteria. I'd have to read, grow the bacteria to digest.

0 (3h 18m 13s):
I wonder, it'd be interesting to watch. You might love it so much. You might go, what was I, I was talking all kinds of crazy shit about not eating meat. God, it's so good.

4 (3h 18m 23s):
You know, I don't, I I know that you're, I I'm way past that. I just don't have that craving any longer.

0 (3h 18m 29s):
I believe you. I've got it though. I got it for both of us.

4 (3h 18m 33s):
You got it. And you got a pasta craving too.

0 (3h 18m 36s):
That's the one I need to get rid of.

4 (3h 18m 38s):
But here's the thing, Joe, I think you're just a guy that's, you know, you're just living a big life. You know, you're just, you're a big man. You're living a big life. You have a lot of passion. You have a passion for life. You have, you have That's

0 (3h 18m 52s):
A nice way of saying a glutton,

4 (3h 18m 54s):
Well gluttons have a passion for life. Yes. But you, if you were just a glutton Yeah. And you weren't doing all these other amazing things, then that would be a true accusation. But you're sort of a glutton for life.

0 (3h 19m 5s):
I am a glutton for life, but I, if there's one part of my life, my personality that I'm embarrassed by, it's my consumption of food that I shouldn't be eating. Because when I start eat, like particularly pasta, it's just I know I'm not supposed to do it. It's the one thing that I know I'm not supposed to do and I just keep

4 (3h 19m 22s):
Doing it. Well, you have to make a deal with your wife not to have it in the house.

0 (3h 19m 26s):
There's no deals I'm gonna buy it.

4 (3h 19m 29s):
But, but you, you so you know you're going to do things you don't want to do. And you have it around anyway. Well,

0 (3h 19m 38s):
While I'm enjoying it, that's the problem. Is the mouth pleasure. During the 15 minutes or so that I'm sitting down eating that bowl, probably not even 15, probably like five. I'm eating a big bowl of spaghetti. The mouth pleasure that I get. I'm gonna, I'm gonna, there's times I'm just gonna accept it

4 (3h 19m 53s):
And that's worth it to you. The

0 (3h 19m 55s):
Crazy thing is I will feel like shit for a full day afterwards. Yeah. Like I'm trading five minutes of mouth pleasure for a full day of feeling like shit. You

4 (3h 20m 5s):
Know, I, I feel that way about, about good red wine.

0 (3h 20m 8s):
Ah, me too.

4 (3h 20m 9s):
So, so what I've learned partly from my, you know, your, the watches that measure my sleep is whenever I consume any alcohol, I don't sleep as long and I don't sleep as deep. Yeah. And I see it now. I see the statistics. Me too. And I, and when I don't drink, I sleep longer and deeper.

0 (3h 20m 26s):
What do you use? What kind of watch you got there? Oh,

4 (3h 20m 28s):
This, this is a, i I just switched over to this watch. This is a, it's fancy chora. It's really a 3, 3 50. It's a choros apex. Those

0 (3h 20m 36s):
Are really good. I've, I've heard of those.

4 (3h 20m 38s):
Well, I love about, this is battery time since I'm a long distance backpacker. This one, this one goes without recharging for about 30 days.

0 (3h 20m 46s):
Whoa. How's it do that?

4 (3h 20m 47s):
It's just got the most amazing battery and if I want to use it full GPS mode to to to on my hiking and whatnot, I can get like four full days without having to charge

0 (3h 20m 57s):
That. That's incredible. It is. A lot of those are good for a day. You go

4 (3h 21m 1s):
To gps, which, which is, which is why I switched from the Apple watch to this one because, because it

0 (3h 21m 5s):
Does this and does it monitor your heart rate? Yeah. You sleep all that jazz. Everything,

4 (3h 21m 8s):
Everything the Apple watch does.

0 (3h 21m 10s):
Yeah. I use a whoop strap. I use this thing which is good for about five days and I do notice that when I drink my recovery's shit,

4 (3h 21m 17s):
But I'm telling this story because to me the, the real pleasure of something like red wine is when it's convivial when you're doing with friends and you're gonna have a long conversation and you're gonna laugh and you're gonna joke and you're gonna tell stories and you're just gonna have a lot of fun. For me, red wine enhances that conviviality and I'm willing to make the trade off occasionally. I'm not sleeping as

0 (3h 21m 42s):
Well. How occasional,

4 (3h 21m 44s):
You know, about every 12 hours or so? No, I, I'd say, I'd say on average I probably average probably a glass a week. But I tend to bundle that up. So it might be, I might not have anything for three weeks and then I might have three glasses of wine over an evening.

0 (3h 22m 3s):
Yeah. My problem is once I have one glass, you're gone. Yeah. Well that's the problem, right? You then your inhibitions are lowered and you're like, look, I'm home. I'm not going anywhere. Look, look,

4 (3h 22m 15s):
Look what I do in order to not do that is I have my glass and then I don't let 'em fill it up when it's only halfway. Right. If you're at a restaurant or whatever, cuz then you, it's sneaky then you've, you lose track of how much you're actually drinking. You're having a good time. So you just keep drinking. So I make a decision, okay, I'm gonna have fun tonight, but I'm gonna have two glasses or one glass, two glasses or three glasses. Never more than that cuz I'm gonna, it's just not worth the pain

0 (3h 22m 43s):
Then. Yeah, that's the problem is you have that third glass, you're kind of lit

4 (3h 22m 46s):
After the third glass. There'll be no stopping

0 (3h 22m 48s):
Dennis's four and five and you're doing shots. Exactly.

4 (3h 22m 51s):
Dancing

0 (3h 22m 52s):
On the table

4 (3h 22m 54s):
And having one fun hell of a hella fun time, but feeling terrible the next day. Do

0 (3h 22m 58s):
You ever supplement with glutathione afterwards?

4 (3h 23m 2s):
I never have tried that

0 (3h 23m 3s):
During Yeah, it helps a lot with your, your liver, your liver's ability to process alcohol makes a big impact. Is that right? Yeah. A doctor told me about it, if you believe it or not,

4 (3h 23m 14s):
Some doctors know some things, some

0 (3h 23m 15s):
Doc. Well this doctor's very good. Shout out to Dr.

4 (3h 23m 18s):
Gordon. That's just a, a glutathione as a amino acid. Yes.

0 (3h 23m 21s):
Yeah. It, it aids in your body's ability to process alcohol.

4 (3h 23m 25s):
Does this give you the excuse you need to drink more alcohol?

0 (3h 23m 27s):
No, but it does help. It doesn't really, it's not a good enough excuse. You're still doing a lot of fucking damage, but Right. But it does help. And another thing that helps with me is if I drink water and I supple up with

4 (3h 23m 38s):
Electrolytes. Yeah. I do that too. Yeah.

0 (3h 23m 40s):
Such a big, the problem is then you, you're gonna get up to,

4 (3h 23m 43s):
In the morning, you're just gonna pee pee, pee pee.

0 (3h 23m 45s):
But you gotta deal with that.

4 (3h 23m 49s):
You know, interesting thing I discovered about you today is that you're a man has these very great passions about things that you were defend these. Absolutely. You know, we, we had, I, I don't know if you're gonna edit any of this, but we argued probably for 30 minutes about heart reversal with meat and plant-based stuff. And you were, you were so passionate about you gotta cut the crap out. You gotta cut the crap out. And then, and then you start saying, man, I just love pasta. These Uncle Eddie's cookies are so incredible. Right. And it's, it's like I find that fascinating. You are, you're, and it it, but I also like that about you a you're not, you're not a hypocrite.

4 (3h 24m 29s):
I mean, you're not, you're not, you're not pretentious pre pretending. I'm

0 (3h 24m 32s):
Not lying. You're

4 (3h 24m 33s):
Not lying. You're authentic. That's the word I'm looking for. Yeah. You're authentic. You show the real Joe Rogan shows up and I so I like that about you. Cause I like authentic people. And then you're willing to say, this isn't bad for me, but I choose to do it anyway. In a sense you're doing it consciously then you're making a conscious, conscious trade off. Although you say sometimes you lose control, then you go unconscious. Is that true?

0 (3h 24m 54s):
Well, not that bad. Look, if I do eat pasta, like legitimately, it's no more than once a week. It's, it's rare. It's very rare that I sit down and eat a, a big, the problem is once I'm eating I'm like, fuck it, we're doing it. And then I go. But the majority of my diet is very healthy. The vast majority of my diet, I eat mostly wild game. So I'm, I, I hunt, so I'm eating elk meat. I'm eating.

4 (3h 25m 21s):
Are you getting those pigs?

0 (3h 25m 22s):
I haven't here. I have in the past I've shot pigs in California, but I've been invited to do it out here in Texas. But unfortunately a lot of people in Texas are not eating them. They're shooting them and then leaving them there, which is, I'm not interested in that, but I am interested in eating them.

4 (3h 25m 41s):
You you ate what you killed?

0 (3h 25m 42s):
Yeah. I eat, I used to have chickens when I lived in California. What coyotes ate 'em all. It was a rough, rough, rough couple of days in the house. But then tho those eggs were fantastic. And those are, you know, when you have free range chicken eggs and they have that dark

4 (3h 26m 0s):
Orange yogurt. I, I have eggs. I mean, I have chickens.

0 (3h 26m 3s):
Do you eat the eggs? I

4 (3h 26m 4s):
Don't. Why not? But I give them away. I should have brought you some today. You

0 (3h 26m 8s):
Think they're bad for you?

4 (3h 26m 10s):
Yeah. The honest answer is I did, I stopped eating eggs for a very bizarre reason, which was that when I first became plant-based, the media, we got really interested in it. And I said, well, I do you, are you pure? And I said, no, I, I, I eat eggs from my own chickens. Right? So every time I was talking to the media, they always wanted to ask me about the chickens and the eggs. And I always had to explain it. And I got so sick of explaining it and I said, you know what? I'm just gonna stop eating these damn eggs so I don't ever have to answer this question again. Really? Yeah. Really.

0 (3h 26m 37s):
I wish I was your friend back then. I would've said, John, fuck those people, eat those eggs. It's like a zero oh karma situation.

4 (3h 26m 46s):
You misunderstand. It's, it's not that I, they were scolding me. I just was Oh, I understand. I was bored. Oh, I understand. With the

0 (3h 26m 53s):
Question. Yeah, I

4 (3h 26m 53s):
Understand. And so once I just said, no, I don't eat any, I just a hundred percent plant. I

0 (3h 26m 58s):
Get it. But you can't alter what you're eating because you don't want to talk about it. That seems crazy. Oh, especially chickens and eggs. It's such a free ride. It wasn't like you feed them, they're healthy, they, you eat their eggs, they're good for you. We

4 (3h 27m 10s):
Give 'em away. Our friends love us.

0 (3h 27m 12s):
Well that's nice. But you don't, do you really think about frying when them bitches up when no one's around?

4 (3h 27m 17s):
You know, I, I, I, I did the first couple of years and then I stopped doing it and I haven't had an egg since and I haven't missed it.

0 (3h 27m 23s):
Bill Burr is a good buddy of mine's a hilarious comedian. He goes, he goes, you want to get fucking confused? He goes, Google our eggs, good for you. And then just start reading.

4 (3h 27m 33s):
I know that's worse than this coffee. Good for you. That's

0 (3h 27m 36s):
One of those things where you could find a hundred articles that say eggs are the greatest food in the world and a hundred articles that say Ed eggs are gonna kill you. And it's like you don't to go through the research.

4 (3h 27m 47s):
You know why eggs are a paradox? Because eggs have a lot of, they have a lot of good things in them. Yeah. That's why they show up. It's like they're really good for you. They have a lot of nutrients in them, but then they also have things that we don't think of as particularly good. So that's why it's a paradox. That's why you get opposite

0 (3h 28m 4s):
Status. Yeah, well you also just get people that think they're a hundred percent good for you and people that think they're a hundred percent bad for you. Right. It's like he's just saying like, and it's what we're talking about essentially like the argument of plant-based versus paleo, you know, versus now carnivore, which has been introduced. I had a very compelling conversation with Paul Saladino for three hours where he is talking about the benefits of a nose to tail carnivore diet, eating nose to

4 (3h 28m 29s):
Taste.

0 (3h 28m 29s):
Yeah. Eating organs, organ meats, and the importance of organ meat. And that it's like, it's pretty interesting. Like a lot of people that eat that way are very healthy. And then a lot of people that eat vegan are healthy. It's like you could get lost in these conversations and trying to figure out what's right and what's wrong in

4 (3h 28m 46s):
A lot of ways you have to find out what's right for you. Yeah. But you have to be kind of objective about it. Meaning you can't just fall into confirmation bias. Because if you do that, it's like, I've seen a lot of people say, you know, it's so confusing. You, you Google or eggs good for you and you get such contradictory information so you know, I'm just gonna eat what I want. Yeah. Then you're doomed. Then you're just gonna eat calorie dense foods that taste good for you and then you're gonna screw yourself up. Get fat.

0 (3h 29m 14s):
I think having cheat meals is not a bad move. And that's what I basically do when I have big bowls of pasta or I sit down with a bag of cookies. I don't think it's bad to reward yourself, but I think the majority of what you consume should be, it should taste good, but be good for you. And I think that that's where people need to make their choices correctly.

4 (3h 29m 34s):
I agree. I see it the same way I I you say a cheat meal, I I think it is just an occasional indulgence. Yeah. Because cuz life is not meant to be purely aesthetic. It's meant to be joyous. Yes. And we're gonna die anyway. So we should, we should have some, some joy in our, in our lives, but we'll have the most happiness and joy in life if we're also healthy. So if we go too far in indulging ourselves, we may be sub optimizing in the long run.

0 (3h 30m 3s):
Now, when you say you're gonna die anyway, when you see these crisper people and all this crazy genetic manipulation, if they start rolling out some new technology that extends life far into the future, like I've heard that if you can make it to 2050, you're basically gonna live forever.

4 (3h 30m 19s):
Yeah. That's Ray. Ray KSAL has been making that singularity, right? Yeah.

0 (3h 30m 23s):
He's 20, 45. Right? Yeah.

4 (3h 30m 25s):
Things if we get, since we're extending the lifespan a couple of years, a decade, and it's accelerating, perhaps we'll get to a place where, so the joke there is when I get to be a hundred, I'll be able to live forever as I age, age a hundred.

0 (3h 30m 40s):
Well, they don't think that though, be able to reverse it. The idea is that whatever is causing aging, what's causing the deterioration and the quality of your life, that that's all disease and that what's a disease that we've accepted, we call it old age, but really what it is, is a slow disease that everyone has. And if they can get you back to your prime, wherever that would be, imagine if you could be a 25 year old man again, John out there

4 (3h 31m 8s):
With the wisdom I have.

0 (3h 31m 9s):
Yes. Living your life out there free and happy. Yeah.

4 (3h 31m 17s):
So here's the thing, there's another theory. There are a lot of theories, right? A theory that I favor is, is that DNA made a deal a long, long time ago. Or it was a decision was made, maybe not consciously, it evolved this way. It said DNA's immortal, but the holder of the DNA is expendable. And so DNA is immortal. We're all dna. And the dna, we, we, we send that on the DNA is immortal. The DNA is in every species, every life form has DNA in it. DNA is what's driving it. DNA is the immortal being, and we're not. And we're the DNA's programmed.

4 (3h 31m 57s):
So they're basically saying, we're gonna reprogram the dna maybe. But every lifeform ages and dies and DNA doesn't. DNA is immortal. And I think that's the deal that was made. Not, I mean that's just what DNA did. It's like, it's hard to keep these life forms alive, but I can keep the, the sex part of me alive and I can, through sex, I can spread it and I DNA will continue to live. Mm. That's what I thinks going on.

0 (3h 32m 26s):
I think that's an interesting way to look at it. But I think as you said earlier that the average age that people died at used to be 30 or whatever it was. And now due to our understanding of nutrition and science and medicine, we've extended it all the way to 80 in the western world. Right. I feel like that's how we're gonna look back at people who died at 80, like these poor fucks. They didn't have genetic engineering. They didn't understand that as you get older you have a better understanding and maybe you can achieve enlightenment in your lifetime. You could be free of all the bullshit that holds people back. And

4 (3h 32m 60s):
Yeah, I read a, I read a a great science fiction series. The first one was spin by Robert Charles Wilson. And, and it's a long story cuz it has three novels based in it. But I'm, the essence for what it relates to what we're talking about is the people. They, we sent some people to Mars and they evolved over time and they came back to the earth and they had developed certain Martian drugs that would extend our lives about another 50 years. And if you took the drugs and they were quickly made illegal. So it was a whole black market for 'em. And so they called it the thirds that they the thirds because they'd had this other third to their life.

4 (3h 33m 46s):
Ooh. And the thing is, is that humanity became a lot wiser because as we get older we do tend to get wiser. I'm a lot wiser today at 67 than I was when I was 40 and a lot wiser at 40 than I was at 20. So if my brain doesn't degenerate through Alzheimer's or dementia, it seems reasonable to think I'll be wiser to a hundred than I am at 67. Yeah. And think if we were able to extend that into 120, 130, a lot of these problems that we have wars and all this irrationality would start to disappear because we just become older and wiser as a species. That's

0 (3h 34m 24s):
What we would hope. Yeah. Or you have Donald Trump, he's 74 years old, he's not a young man and he doesn't seem, I mean he says the most ridiculous, preposterous shit. He says shit that you would cringe at saying if you were 30. Right. Well here's some people live longer. Trump

4 (3h 34m 42s):
May be wiser today at 74 than he was at 30.

0 (3h 34m 44s):
Ah, that's a good point. So

4 (3h 34m 45s):
We don't, we'd have to have a comparison.

0 (3h 34m 47s):
I'm sure he is. I'm sure he is. Yeah. You'd have to compare him to his younger self. That's the thing. Like maybe if you give morons enough time, they eventually will get to a point where they're like 160. They're just start apologizing to everybody Maybe. So like, I'm so sorry. I was so dumb. I didn't know.

4 (3h 35m 5s):
But you know, here's the thing about politics. You can afford to have half the p half the p people hate you. I can't, I I've, I can't have half my customers, half my team members boycotting whole foods. Right. Do you know, so I just sent out what, what Whole Foods was doing and the Wall Street Journal put an unfortunate title on that, which is Whole Foods answer to, to healthcare and or to Obamacare, something like that. And so it was just an op-ed piece. It's no big deal. It's just one guy's opinion. Right, right. So we had Hundreds of boycotts around the country of Whole Foods market there.

4 (3h 35m 47s):
Facebook, there was a signature page and 350,000 people signed it. So they were gonna boycott Whole Foods market. My board of directors got thousands of letters, emails, texts, demanding that I'd be fired. And then it set this whole tea I was when the tea party was going on. So the tea party then was doing boycotts and it was like, hello everybody. I just wrote an op-ed piece. It was just an opinion piece. It's just my opinion. I I didn't even, I didn't, but they attacked Whole Foods. Yeah. So what I learned, the lesson, my scar on that one is if I go out into the public and I express any kind of political opinion, chances are now it's cancel culture. Back then, they were just, they were trying to cancel me back then actually.

0 (3h 36m 27s):
Yeah. It just wasn't a culture thing. It wasn't cultural thing.

4 (3h 36m 29s):
The label. So I've, I've learned to be a little more careful about voicing someday when I retire from Whole Foods, I'm gonna be unleashed

0 (3h 36m 38s):
When that happens. You gotta come back. Mackey

4 (3h 36m 40s):
Unpleasant.

0 (3h 36m 41s):
Get nutty. I'll help you launch a podcast. Why not? I think that that's very unfortunate, you know, because I think having an opinion about something is, especially when a person is achieved the, a level of success where they've seen a lot of things and they've had to navigate a lot of things. Like that's, that's, those are the people that I want to hear from. Like, why is someone so upset about a person, a just a public person? Your opinion about an issue that we're all dealing with. I

4 (3h 37m 9s):
Think it's, cuz we, we talked about before, earlier today, that some people identify their beliefs with who they are. So, and you express opinions that differ with their beliefs. They experience it as a personal attack and that's why they get so upset and angry. You and I don't do that. You could be telling me that I think your plant-based diet is full of shit, John. And it's like, okay, well you're entitled to your opinion and we'll have to compare notes here. But I didn't take it personally.

0 (3h 37m 34s):
Well that's evidence how we're still having fun. Yeah. As heated as things got. Exactly.

4 (3h 37m 38s):
Because we aren't our opinions. Yeah. But we don't identify our opinions as, as an essence of who we are, but other people do. So opinions are very frightening and threatening to them politically

0 (3h 37m 48s):
Too. Especially when politics are involved in, I remember those days of the early days of the Obama administration, people were so upset at him. All those Tea party Ah, yeah. People

4 (3h 37m 57s):
You think we're gonna have a civil war in this country, Joe.

0 (3h 37m 59s):
I don't think we are, but it's not outside of the realm of possibility. It's not good. It's the most polarizing. I think. I thought the Tea party times were tough, but Obama wound up being the successful president and pulled us out of the 2008 crisis. Even though there's a lot of dispute as to whether or not he should have bailed out the, the banks, at the end of the day, things are going pretty well towards the end of his presidency. You know, whether people liked him or didn't like him. This is a different animal. This, this, this situation we have now where Trump is claiming that the, the election has been stolen and there's a large percentage of people that think that's the truth. And then there's other people that are like, you know, they voted for Biden just because they hate Trump.

0 (3h 38m 43s):
Right. There's a lot of, I mean, there's not a lot of people that are really excited about

4 (3h 38m 46s):
Biden. Well in this case, they're either gonna be able to prove the claims or they're not. Yeah.

0 (3h 38m 51s):
And doesn't look good.

4 (3h 38m 52s):
There's not much time that there's not much time to prove it. Yeah. So we'll have to see it unfold and how it, how it, what happens. So, I don't know. It's very bizarre. It's a, it's the most bizarre political time of my life, or at least as an adult. Yeah.

0 (3h 39m 9s):
What's, as we were talking about earlier, it's this, this situation that they talked about in the social dilemma. This same polarizing moment, but it's more accelerated now than I've, I've ever felt it. Do

4 (3h 39m 21s):
You, do you feel like you're being manipulated by social media? I'm just curious.

0 (3h 39m 26s):
No, I don't listen.

4 (3h 39m 28s):
Yeah, I don't either. Actually. I'm, I'm not on any social media. I'm

0 (3h 39m 31s):
Sure it's manipulating me in some way though. I'd be naive to say. It doesn't, it's, it's gotta have some sort of an effect on me. You,

4 (3h 39m 36s):
You have your tweet though, right?

0 (3h 39m 39s):
Yeah. But I do what I call post and ghost where I post and then I run away. I don't read. So you don't, any

4 (3h 39m 44s):
Responses, you don't, you don't get caught up in the hub up? No.

0 (3h 39m 47s):
And I very rarely tweet most of I post things on Instagram and they're not very non-political. It's, most of it is just interesting things.

4 (3h 39m 55s):
You know what? You need to learn the lessons from your social media and apply it to your pasta eating.

0 (3h 40m 2s):
I kind of have.

4 (3h 40m 3s):
Because it sounds like you're very disciplined in the social media realm. Yeah. You don't, you ha it hasn't taken you over.

0 (3h 40m 8s):
I'm relatively disciplined with my diet relative. That's why I'm not a fatto, but I could be.

4 (3h 40m 14s):
I think you're just working your ass off.

0 (3h 40m 16s):
I I do that too, but I'm te I'm, I have a real weakness. I just don't let it get me most of the time. But when it gets me, oh my God, it's embarrassing.

4 (3h 40m 27s):
I'm, I'm, I'm gonna go a little deeper on that with you and ask you a question. So is it something that you consciously decide, okay, tonight I'm gonna eat pasta? Or is it like you get a craving and you just do

0 (3h 40m 37s):
It? Usually I'm, it's a craving. And usually it's when I'm tired. When I'm tired, I have a terrible, like

4 (3h 40m 41s):
You said, after standup or something like that.

0 (3h 40m 43s):
I have a late at night if I'm riding. Even if I'm home writing late at night and I'm done at one o'clock in the morning, usually I'm like, just go to bed stupid. But sometimes I'm like, come on, let's eat.

4 (3h 40m 56s):
Do the camera. Catch that glint in your eyes though.

0 (3h 40m 59s):
It's a real glint. Oh, that's, but again, I don't do it enough where I get fat, but I do understand people that do, I really do because it's like a, you know, people think I'm disciplined. I'm, I guess I'm kind of disciplined, kind of. But more than that, I'm scared of not being disciplined. So our work, I I work like there's a weird, like the work gets done, but it's not like there's this like unflappable work ethic that never gets breached. No. It's like I have to, I have to play tricks on myself to get the work done.

4 (3h 41m 32s):
Actually. I mean, I, I just think you're a man that has strong passions and those passions carry you into life. And when you're, when you're, when you're full of passion for whatever it is, I think you're probably prodigious in terms of your, what you do. But then you have these other periods of time where you're sort of, you know, you're not caught up in the passions and you're just sort of treading water, so to speak. Am I right?

0 (3h 41m 56s):
Yeah. It, it's, you know, it's, the problem is that when I decide that I'm gonna do something, I know I'm not supposed to do like, eat too much. I, I don't decide it very often, but when I do, it's like, it, it fucks with your self-esteem. It fu cuz you're like, God, I let myself do that. Like why did I do that?

4 (3h 42m 13s):
So, you know how it, you, what you could do that wouldn't mess with your self-esteem is if you just make a conscious decision. I'm gonna do this today. That's

0 (3h 42m 20s):
What the Rock does. Do you ever go to the rocks? Instagram?

4 (3h 42m 23s):
No.

0 (3h 42m 24s):
His cheat days are legendary.

4 (3h 42m 26s):
So he, he just, he he's conscious about it. He, oh

0 (3h 42m 28s):
Yeah, he lets the world go.

4 (3h 42m 30s):
He's not sneaking dude.

0 (3h 42m 31s):
He'll eat stacks of pancakes. Look, he's an enormous man.

4 (3h 42m 35s):
He's a big guy. You

0 (3h 42m 36s):
Ever met him? I have not. He's huge. He's so big. He doesn't seem like a real person. He's like a cartoon character.

4 (3h 42m 41s):
How tall is he?

0 (3h 42m 43s):
Oh my god. He's at least six five. Wow. He really, I don't imagine, how tall is he? Like officially six five ish. But he's enormous. Like 300 pounds. All muscle giant. Just giant human. I know when you're around him you're like, that's not a real person. That's a, that's a superhero.

4 (3h 42m 57s):
Actually I li I like, I like Joe, I like the rock and movies and stuff. I like his personality.

0 (3h 43m 2s):
He's a very inspirational person

4 (3h 43m 4s):
On Schwar. I like Schwarzenegger when he was doing his Terminator stuff in those movies. I thought he was, I thought he was a great comedic actor. Yeah, that

0 (3h 43m 11s):
Was

4 (3h 43m 11s):
Really funny. I don't think he intended to be comedic. I just think that kind of became his shtick because he was naturally sort of kind of funny.

0 (3h 43m 19s):
Well the Rock's Instagram, at least once a week or so. He'll, he'll post like what he's doing. Like he'll have like a tray of sushi that's as big as this table. And I'm not kidding. It's just ridiculous amounts of food he consumes. Well

4 (3h 43m 32s):
Sushi, you know, you can eat a lot of sushi. Doesn't have that many calories in it.

0 (3h 43m 36s):
Well there you go. Let people know

4 (3h 43m 39s):
Or you can't eat a hundred pounds of it. But I mean

0 (3h 43m 41s):
He, he'll eat a plate as big as his table. But I mean stacks of pancakes and cookies just,

4 (3h 43m 46s):
Okay, well those are calorie drinks.

0 (3h 43m 47s):
Yeah, he goes off. But you go to that guy's social media and he's in the gym every single day. I mean he's, these go off days probably help fuel his motivation and his discipline cuz he gives himself a little mental break. Wow. That

4 (3h 44m 4s):
You know, also that's fascinating and maybe that he's doing that and that helps cuz he feels a little bit guilty about it perhaps. He says now I have to double my workout to make up for it. So it's actually using it to push him. I

0 (3h 44m 17s):
Don't know, you know that guy's so disciplined. I doubt that's the case. I think he really has a healthy attitude. Like, I'm gonna take a day and just go fucking crazy. And then after that's over it's back to the grind. I just think he's on the grind literally every day. Okay. You know. Alright dude, we just talked for like four hours.

4 (3h 44m 34s):
No

0 (3h 44m 35s):
Way. Yeah, we did. It's four. It's 4 35.

4 (3h 44m 37s):
Good. We got a lot of shit you can edit.

0 (3h 44m 39s):
We're not editing nothing. Conscious capitalism, John Mackey and Conscious Leadership. Leadership is also available. The Whole Foods Diet. Get yourself some books. Thank you brother. I really appreciate it. It was, it was fun talking to you. Thanks. And when you retire and you ready to talk some shit, come back and we'll have you go off. All thank you John. Appreciate it. Bye everybody. Thank you friends for tuning into the show and thank you to our sponsors. Thank you to Casper. Give the gift of a better bedroom. Save up to 30% during Casper's Black Friday sale on now@casper.com. Terms and conditions apply. See casper.com/terms for more details.

0 (3h 45m 24s):
We're also brought to you by Simply Safe in their awesome home security C Nets editors choice for home security and was named the best of 2020 by Forbes and Popular Mechanics. And you can get 40% off Simply Safe. Plus a free security camera today by visiting simply safe.com/rogan. Hurry this deal expires on Friday. That's simply safe.com/rogan. Simply safe.com/rogan. We're also brought to you by the jeans I'm wearing right now. The shit Rev Town, they got it dialed in, they're better. They're whatever jeans you're wearing now. If you're not wearing Rev Town, rev towns are better.

0 (3h 46m 5s):
Pick up a pair at rev town.com/rogan. Upgrade your denim game today at rev town.com/rogan. And we're also brought to you by squarespace, squarespace.com/joe. Go there for a free trial, build yourself a beautiful professional website. Then when you're ready to launch, use the offer code Joe to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. It's the host of my website, joe rogan.com. And it's a place where you can go to build a beautiful website, squarespace.com/joe for the free trial. And then again, use the offer code Joe to save 10% off

9 (3h 46m 45s):
Your first purchase of a website for donating.

0 (3h 46m 48s):
Friends, thank you so much. Much love to you all. Bye-bye. And a big kiss offer code Joe to save 10% off your

9 (3h 46m 59s):
First purchase of a website for donating

0 (3h 47m 2s):
Friends, thank you so much. Much love to you all. Bye-bye. And a big kiss.