0 (-1h -1m -0s):
. Hello friends. Welcome to the show. This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Traeger grills. I cook on a trigger grill four to five days a week, and I've been using one long before it was ever a sponsor of the podcast. I love these things. They're fantastic. It's a triggers or pellet grills. And the way it works is they cut hardwood like Hickory or Oak or cherry, and then take that sawdust and compress it using just the natural sugars of the wood to hold it together. It creates these pellets. You pour the pellets into the hopper and the grill. The hopper feeds the pellets into a worm drive, which connects it to a heating element and the heating element lights, the wood pellets on fire. So your cooking was just wood and fire.

0 (42s):
So it gives you the delicious smokey taste, but it's super convenient and easy to use, and it maintains temperature perfectly. It comes with a wifi application, their wifi application has 1500 plus recipes. And you can control the grill from the app. You can shut it off, raise or lower the temperature. It has a meat thermometer. So it tells you what temperature your food is. It's amazing. You can literally cook anything on a Traeger grill and they have a black Friday sale. From November 20th through the 30th, you get a free ultimate bundle with purchase of any iron wood grill includes pellets, accessories, rubs, sauces, and more. And over $200 value.  Also offering a hundred dollars off pro five 75 and pro seven 80 grills while supplies last, their wood pellets are all made here in the U S have a they're available online or in 10,000 plus stores nationwide.

0 (1m 38s):
Visit Traeger grills.com/joe, and use the code Rogan at checkout for free shipping. We're also brought to you by black rifle, coffee company, black rifle. Coffee was founded by Evan hayfever. After over 20 years in the U S army as an infantry man, special forces soldier in a CIA contractor, he founded black rifle coffee along with army ranger, Matt, best as a combination of their two passions, developing premium, fresh roasted coffee and honoring and supporting those who serve on the front lines. Black rifle coffee company has donated over 45,000 pounds of coffee or over 1 million cups of coffee to soldiers deployed overseas law enforcement officers, wild land firefighters on the West coast and medical workers.

0 (2m 22s):
During the COVID-19 response, just in 2020 alone for every coffee purchase you make throughout November black rifle coffee, we'll send a bag of our limited edition holiday Rose to a service member currently deployed overseas to be delivered by Christmas morning, being founded and operated by veterans. The team at black rifle coffee company knows what a quality cup of coffee means to active duty troops spending the holidays away from home. It's an awesome company. I love the people behind it. And if you want to support the cause, go to black rifle, coffee.com/joe Rogan today, and check out the freshest coffee in America. The team has spent thousands of hours tasting, sourcing, and perfecting coffee from all over the world.

0 (3m 7s):
Black rifle, coffee.com/joe Rogan gets you 20% off coffee, apparel and gear as well as 20% off your first month of the coffee club. It's an awesome company and both Matt best and Evan Hayford have been on the podcast. And I love those guys. I love the company. They're awesome. Another I love is the motherfucking cash app. The number one app in finance, in the known universe, in all of the lines and, and the skies and the heavens. You probably already know if you listen to this podcast that the cash app is the easiest way to send money between your friends and family, without having to hold onto that dirty paper cash. That weird paper that's been floating around in circulation.

0 (3m 50s):
Well, the cash app is also the very best way to buy Bitcoin with the cash app. You can automatically purchase Bitcoin daily, weekly, or even biweekly known in the industry as stacking SATs. SATs is short for Satoshi. The legendary person who created Bitcoin, a true mystery person, no one knows who it is. Maybe it's you Bitcoin is it transformational digital currency that acts as a decentralized peer to peer payment network powered by its users with no central authority. Many people far smarter than myself. Believe that is the future of currency. You can get on board today, get some Bitcoin through the cash app.

0 (4m 32s):
And of course, when you download the cash app, enter the referral code. Joe Rogan, all one word, you will receive $10 and the cash app will also send $10 to our good friend. Justin Wren's fight for the forgotten charity, building Wells for the Pygmies in the Congo. We're very proud to be a part of this program and through it, they have built several Wells in the process of building many more and they've raised a shitload of money to do this. We're very, very, very honored. The cash is an amazing company. Don't forget promo code, Joe Rogan, all one word. When you download the cash app from the app store or the Google play store today, we're also brought to you by legacy box legacy box is a safe and affordable way to digitally preserve all your home movies and photos that are currently trapped on dated formats like VHS or film.

0 (5m 20s):
So many of us have irreplaceable moments on tapes or film reels that you can no longer watch will. Legacy box can help you discover what's on all those old tapes and films, and then keep the footage organized and safe for years to come with legacy box, you can reclaim all the priceless footage you haven't been able to see in years. It couldn't be any simpler to use their service. Use their kit to safely send the moments that you want preserved. Their team will create a digital archive by hand. Then you'll receive your new copies stored on the cloud, a thumb drive, or a DVD along with all the original that you sent them with their tracking system.

0 (5m 60s):
You can monitor every step of the process. So you always know your originals are being taken care of. And over the past 10 years, legacy box has helped close to 1 million families restore and protect their most cherished memories. And right now they're offering 60% off. So you can have everything preserved at once for a fraction of the regular price. Once you have these digital versions, you can relax. Knowing they'll be secure for generations. Legacy box is something you can order in minutes and enjoy forever. This is the best deal of the year. Go to legacy box.com/rogan to take advantage of this limited time offer and get 60% off this exclusive offer won't last long.

0 (6m 41s):
So order their kit now and send it in whenever you're ready. It's a sale to remember go to legacy box.com/rogan and save 60% off while supplies last. Yay. My guest today is an extraordinary woman. She is the first woman to free climb the golden gate, route up El Capitan, a 3,200 foot high monolith in Yosemite national park in under 24 hours. And on top of that, she's just cool as fuck. Please welcome.

1 (7m 20s):
Emily Harrington, the Joe Rogan experience try my day, Joe Rogan podcast by night, all day. Hello, Emily. Hi. What's happening

0 (7m 32s):
Seem very normal. And that's what always stuns me about people who do insane things. Like they're just like Alex Honnold, I've met him a few times, had him on the show a couple of times, super normal guy, but does what you do.

2 (7m 47s):
Yeah, I would argue Alex isn't as normal as me. I don't know if you've met him. I think he's normal. It's pretty normal. He does what he does is exponentially more dangerous than what I do. I would argue because there's no ropes at all. He doesn't use ropes. I do use ropes. Yeah. Yes. Listen, it's dangerous. What you do is dangerous. We'll get there. Yeah. Tell people what you did. Cause it's pretty crazy. So I did, what's called free climbing. I free climbed a route on El Capitan, which is a 3,200 foot cliff in your 70 national park. And I did it in under 24 hours.

0 (8m 28s):
That is a long way to go 3,200. And

2 (8m 34s):
It's something 3,200 feet is what I say. I think it might just be like a little more than that

0 (8m 41s):
Play there. Emily Harrington becomes the first woman to scale El Capitan via its notoriously difficult golden gate route. Why is that route more difficult?

2 (8m 51s):
Well, okay. So it was a router route. I don't think it really matters. I see.

3 (8m 58s):
Yeah. Yeah.

2 (8m 59s):
So essentially ELCAP is this giant cliff face and there's, there's hundreds of routes up El cap, different like pathways you can take. And right now there's currently only like 15 ways to get up at via free climbing, free climbing, being using only your hands and feet to ascend and a rope in case you fall. And I chose the route called golden gate, which is more difficult than the route free rider, which people are very familiar with because that's the route that Alex Honnold free soloed. Meaning he climbed it without a rope.

3 (9m 32s):
Yeah. That seems insane. So your lesson saying to him, Oh yeah.

2 (9m 37s):
Less insane than him. Alex is a dear friend of mine, but there's some things I don't understand about him.

3 (9m 43s):
Yeah. I don't know if he understands those things about him.

2 (9m 46s):
I mean, I have an enormous amount of respect for him, but what he does is, is truly remark.

3 (9m 53s):
Mm. You bumped your head while you're doing it too. Huh? I could see the, the Mark on your forehead

2 (9m 59s):
Are I that? Yeah. And that's actually, the second time I hit my head, trying to, trying to do this last year, had a really bad fall wound up in the hospital, full concussion. The whole thing this time, it was slightly less, less serious, but maybe more dramatic. Cause it, it happened like way higher up

3 (10m 17s):
On the wall. How high were you up?

2 (10m 22s):
2,800 feet. I'd say like almost to the top. It was a, it was a whole, it was very dramatic. I, so the day was actually going really well. I've been trying to do this for a few years now. Probably I would say three years, I've been working towards this goal and I'd actually done the route in 2015 over the course of six days. And I really wanted to like do the same route in 24 hours.

3 (10m 48s):
Can I stop you there when you do it over six days, do you sleep on the route?

2 (10m 52s):
So most people climb El cap, they sleep on the wall. It takes like five to seven days.

3 (10m 58s):
That seems more sketchy.

2 (11m 2s):
It's it's different because there's a lot more logistics involved, right? Like imagine you have to like live in the vertical world for days on end. So think about everything you do. Like from when you wake up to, when you go to bed.

3 (11m 15s):
Oh yeah. You have to poo vertically.

2 (11m 17s):
Yeah. We use like, we use wag bags or like, you know, little like plastic bags and you like go in that bag and then you put it in another bag and,

3 (11m 25s):
And then carry it with you. So you can put it for seven days.

2 (11m 29s):
You put it in another bag and then you like, hang it below everything and you take it up with you and then you like, you take it. Yeah. You don't leave it.

3 (11m 36s):
I know. I would imagine stuff it in the crack up there. Is that someone going? No, that's just someone hanging out. Yeah.

2 (11m 42s):
That's like how you do it when you live on the wall. So you have that ledge,

3 (11m 46s):
Like the Michael Jackson song. What live in on the ball. Yeah. No, that song, I'm not familiar. It's a famous song. So you sleep in that thing. I would get zero sleep. I don't like sleeping when I'm near the edge of my bed,

2 (12m 6s):
Seeing how it's amazing, how exhausted you are at the end of the day and how used to the whole, like how used to it, you get, you just adjust the human bodies. Like humans are really remarkable in their ability to like adapt to things. And so it's pretty cool. How, yeah, it's really scary at first, but then the more you do it, the more you're just like, okay, well this is kind of,

3 (12m 29s):
Are you when you're sleeping in that thing, he fully is harnessed in and strapped in

2 (12m 34s):
Harness and you just usually have like a loose like rope or slang or something attached to the anchor point. So like if you roll out it, you know, if you're one of those people that like rolls out of bed at night, then

3 (12m 48s):
Could you imagine just the feeling of like waking up, swinging, hanging from your harness

2 (12m 55s):
He's so he is actually COE. Is that sling around his waist? No. That's just like, yeah. That's like last resort. Like that's, that's Tommy Caldwell.

3 (13m 5s):
He, while you're a psycho, he,

2 (13m 7s):
He free climbed perhaps the hard, the hardest big wall in the world, also on El cap called the Dawn wall. And he was up there for 17 days. So when you eat, imagine 17 days, like,

3 (13m 17s):
Look at all this stuff. That's like, he's like a homeless person up there. Yeah. There's a lot of stuff. You know, like the homeless people have those little camps. That is a, he's a maniac. That's a crazy person. Look at him, checking his fingernails. Yeah.

2 (13m 31s):
You see, he also, he's also actually missing a finger, which is pretty rare for an elite level rock climber.

3 (13m 36s):
Oh, wow. What happened in his finger?

2 (13m 38s):
I believe it was a table saw accident, home improvement accident. Ooh.

3 (13m 44s):
And so he's using everything, but his index.

2 (13m 46s):
Yeah. He kinda climbs, he kinda climbs like this and uses the little, the nub he's yeah, definitely. Tommy's one of my true heroes. Ultimate climbing hero.

3 (13m 59s):
Did you have is that is a very small click, right? Yeah. Of Savage psychos that are willing to climb gigantic mountain face.

2 (14m 8s):
Yeah. It's a relatively small group. I mean, it's growing, climbing's definitely growing in popularity, but it definitely used to be like a little bit like a small little community. And I think we still have,

3 (14m 21s):
Is there a danger in the climbing world or not a danger, a concern I should say of people who are seeing people like Alex Honnold and yourself become famous and get all this attention from these very dangerous climbs. And they want to perhaps accelerate their progress and jump right in and try to do some really risky things.

2 (14m 48s):
I mean, I could see that being a danger, especially like what Alex does climb without a rope. I would still argue that what I do is a relatively safe form of climbing. I climbed with a rope when I fall, the rope catches me. It's super safe. When all the rope catches me, free climbing El cap in a day. What, what I just did, I definitely cut some corners and took more risk, but that's an achievement that not many people have done or really strive to do. And so I think, I think for the most part, climbing is actually a very controlled, very safe activity. And you can make it as dangerous as you want it to be.

2 (15m 28s):
Does that make sense?

3 (15m 29s):
Yes. I understand what you're saying. So if you're a person like Alex is deciding, you know, he's, he maps these routes, he does them with ropes and then he's like, I can do this.

2 (15m 40s):
Yes. And Alex, Alex is so unique in a way. And I think anyone that watches the movie free solo, anyone that talks to Alex understands that what he does is he it's so well thought out and it's so well-planned and every single decision he makes is very calculated. And I think that that's just, and I think that that's a Testament to, to what climbing is truly about. Like, we're not like we're not out to go feel an adrenaline rush when we go climbing. Like if you're feeling adrenaline, it essentially means like you messed up, like something's wrong. And climbing is very much more about like the movement and the challenge and the mental challenge of all of it.

2 (16m 23s):
Then, then going out and like trying to get a thrill. How did you get involved in this? I started climbing when I was 10 years old. I was at, I grew up in Boulder, Colorado, and my parents used to take me to the Boulder reservoir, this Lake, me and my cousins. I did have a seat.

3 (16m 41s):
Everyone in Boulder is a Subaru Subaru for my 16th birthday. It's like 70% of the cars out there, green Subaru because they're so practical. They work in the snow.

2 (16m 52s):
Yeah. I had it for years. So anyway, my parents took me to the Lake and they had this little festival there and I grew up, I'm an only child. I grew up with my two cousins who were boys. And we were just like super competitive with each other all the time. Like, all I wanted to do was be better than them at like literally anything. It didn't matter what it was. So we were at this Lake and they had a little festival with one of those tower, rock towers, you know, the ones that they let the kids climb on. And we all tried to climb the wall. And I just remember, it was like, well, I have to go to the top because they went to the top and you know, there's like no other option. But the interesting thing that happened when I was climbing was it was just this feeling of like, Oh, this is what I'm, this is what I'm meant to do.

2 (17m 36s):
Like it was like, I just felt like I belonged up there. And I remember the feeling so vividly, even now, 23 years later, it was like, I was scared, but I kind of liked it. And I just really, I got down and I was like, dad, I to go climbing like that. That's what I want to do. I want to quit everything else. I was a gymnast. I played soccer. I was a ski racer. I was like, I don't want to do, I don't want to do any of that anymore. I just want to climb.

4 (17m 59s):
Why, what, what, what about climbing, like canceled all those other things out in your interest?

2 (18m 6s):
I think, I think part of it was because I was, I was good at it and I like, kinda knew that I was good at it. Like I could feel like I felt I was strong from gymnastics. I had a lot of body awareness. Like it just felt like something that I could be good at. And I really enjoyed just the like feeling of being a PI, the feeling of the exposure. And I really enjoyed, enjoyed the process of like solving it. Like I loved that cerebral. Like how, how am I going to get to the top? Like, how am I going to solve this puzzle?

4 (18m 37s):
So what was the course of progression you started out? Did you start out just climbing small things with friends and then did you eventually get a coach? Like how did you get into like serious hardcore climbing?

2 (18m 52s):
I was among the first generation of kids, climbers who started out in a climbing gym. So like in an artificial setting, like a lot of people before me started, you know, in Yosemite outdoors in the mountains. But I, I grew up like in the nineties and that was sort of like the beginning of climbing gyms. And so I, I started in a gym on plastic and my dad took me to the local. The local climbing gym in Boulder is called the Boulder rock club. And he enrolled me in like a kid's class. And they sort of noticed a little bit of talent, I think in me. And they invited me to join their junior climbing team. Like there's junior climbing teams.

2 (19m 33s):
Now every gym in the country has a junior climbing team.

4 (19m 35s):
Is there a benefit to learning on plastic first?

2 (19m 39s):
I, I mean, I think access for one, like if you, if you live in a place where there's no rocks, it's pretty easy to go, still go climbing. You could to go to the gym that said it's very much become its own discipline, gym climbing. And I use gym climbing still for training. Like I think it makes you strong. It's a really easy, it's an easy way to get a workout in like the body awareness factor. You can kind of like distill down all the, like the movements and in a really controlled setting. It's also super safe

4 (20m 12s):
When you say training. So like, if you're going to practice for a big climb, something like you just did. D do you have like a training schedule? Like, do you try to peak like an athlete would for the Olympics or for some other kind of event? Like how do you, how do you train? Yeah,

2 (20m 29s):
I do. I do try to train so that I am peaking at a certain time. I'm it's a little bit experimental though. Honestly, I've, I've been working towards this goal in particular for, for many years, really experimenting with how, how to train for it, because it does require such a variety of skills. Like you need the strength and endurance of, of technical, like of a technical rock climber in order to like climb the pitches cleanly, but you also need logistical support. So it has to be like the right time of year, you need the right partner, you need a good weather, and then you need like the stamina to be climbing for 21 hours.

2 (21m 9s):
And so a lot of it, a lot of it was just trial and error for me, but I did spend a lot of time in the gym training on plastic. And then I would supplement that with like really long trail runs and big days in the Eastern Sierra, like climbing bigger routes. And then also there's a mental component. So I had to sort of get my head back, especially after my accident last year, I had to get my head back in the game and, you know, feel comfortable leading on run-out terrain with big fall potential again. So there was just like a lot. And I did, I think this year in particular because of COVID, I was actually able to focus a lot more. Like, I think that was sort of the key for me. I stopped traveling.

2 (21m 50s):
I was at home, I had like a routine. I had like a good sleep schedule going on. I had like my days that I was training and I was able to like have a, a really good routine. And then when the season started, I felt really well-prepared

4 (22m 4s):
When you train, do you have someone who is a coach who sets aside a training schedule or do you just do it yourself? Is it an intuition? Like you just like have a sense of what you need to train? Like how, how do you decide what you do?

2 (22m 23s):
I used to have a coach. I, because when I first started climbing, I was basically just only doing climbing competition. So I just was a competition climber. So I have a really solid base in, in training and how to train. I no longer work with a coach, but I definitely like read a lot. And I kind of like grab bits and pieces of information from my friends. And so, yeah, I do, I do have a set training schedule approach that I kind of like build out in my head and try to stick to it. That said I'm like pretty, I'm pretty flexible, but I do not just climb. Like, if that's what you're asking, I do a lot of specific, specific training.

2 (23m 7s):
Mostly I try to train what I'm weakest at, which is like pure power, pure strength.

4 (23m 12s):
So you're saying that you do trail runs too, and you find that that helps you.

2 (23m 17s):
I do think running helps me. A lot of climbers would say that running is not that good for climbing, but because it, it makes you tired essentially. And it decreases your power in your ability to like really pull hard. Like you're not really supposed to go running on your rest days, but I do it anyway. And for me, sanity wise, like I just love it.

4 (23m 38s):
Just good for the head. Yeah. Yeah. So they think that just exhausting, your legs from running will mess you up when you're climbing. Yeah. The idea. Yeah,

2 (23m 47s):
I think so. I think it just like depletes your ability to like pure power, you know, like if you're doing like a, I mean, I don't know if you're doing like a weightlifting workout. It doesn't see, it seems like you're not supposed to go run a few miles before you try to like bench press your hardest.

4 (24m 3s):
Yeah. Is there two schools of thought on that? Because it seems like another school of thought would be, if you can condition your body to run and climb, you'll, you'll have a stronger body than one that just climbs. That's my philosophy. Yeah. Yeah. And obviously you're out there kicking ass.

2 (24m 18s):
Well, I mean, I've, I'm trying, I'm still, I'm a work in progress.

4 (24m 22s):
Well, aren't we all, so you basically are. Self-trained in that sense where you don't have someone who sets a schedule aside for you, like today, you're gonna lift weights today. You're going to run today. And so how do you do that? Is it just based on how you feel? Do you write it out? Like what, like when Emily wakes up in the morning and decides today is a, what day? How do you do that?

2 (24m 44s):
I it's, it's a lot of how I feel. Sometimes I plan it out. Sometimes I write it out. I, it depends on how much time I have, like, if I have a chunk of time to train, then I'll build like a training schedule. Like if I have a month, I'll, I'll be like, okay, I'm going to climb two days on one day off for the next month. And then on the first day I'm going to do like more power style training. So like shorter workouts, hot, you know, like shorter workouts, higher reps or whatever you want to call it. Like fingerboard, bouldering stuff that really like increases my power. And then on the second day I'll focus more on like power endurance or endurance.

2 (25m 25s):
And that's sort of how I structure it. And I, I climb, I do a hit, I do hang board workouts. Was it essentially just like hanging on different?

4 (25m 33s):
Yeah. I've seen those things. Yeah. Those are super painful. And your fingers, you can't get manicures Kenya.

2 (25m 39s):
I mean, I do get mad. I actually do get manicures. They just don't turn out that well, you're digging into rocks will tip off really, really fast. I like it. I like to feel girly.

4 (25m 50s):
Just recognize it's very temporary in terms of manicure, at least. Yeah. So when you're training, do you use heart rate monitors? Do you measure, register or record your recovery? Like how do you do all that stuff?

2 (26m 6s):
I don't do that as much. I've actually played around a little bit with heart rate monitors. A lot of times when I'm like resting on the wall, that's something I'm really focused on. Like a lot of times when you're climbing and you get really tired, a lot of times you'll feel it in your forearms, they'll get really like tight. We call it pumped. Like there's a lot of lactic acid buildup and that causes you to like panic in a way and get a little bit of tunnel vision, like, and start to start essentially you'll just fall. And so a lot of times what I focus on when I'm like in that place is trying to lower my heart rate, like very consciously. And I've used a heart rate monitor to do that, but I don't do it while I'm climbing anymore.

2 (26m 44s):
It's more just me recognizing that that's what needs to happen and putting effort into lowering my heart rate.

4 (26m 52s):
Well, you know, we were talking before with your fiance and we're talking about whoop straps, you know, and like the idea of checking your recovery and making sure, like, do you do any of that when you wake up in the morning and you make sure that you're good to go. So he does that in any way affect, like how rigorous your training is going to be. Do you measure your heart rate when you wake up or anything?

2 (27m 14s):
Don't do that. And I, and it's been for a specific reason. I actually am. I'm go, I'm planning on starting to do that. But because I had this project sort of looming the last few months, I didn't really want to like change my approach because I thought it might mess with me psychologically.

4 (27m 32s):
Right? If you wake up and you say, Oh my God, I'm not there to cover it.

2 (27m 35s):
No, I'm not recovered. Like what do I do? I try to be really intuitive about it. I used to be very like data-driven and very focused and very like obsessed with everything that I did. And I honestly, in some ways I feel like it kind of hindered me. And so now I try to be a little more intuitive, but I think, I think it's a balance. I'm kind of like going back into, maybe I, maybe I need to start tracking my sleep a little bit more cause I'm notoriously bad sleeper

4 (28m 4s):
Because I would imagine the reason why I'm asking all these questions about trainings, because I would imagine that when you're doing something, that's literally, I know you're saying it's relatively safe, but for a person like me, who's a big chicken shit. It's not relatively safe. It seems quite insane. And, and I would imagine you would want every single edge. So I would, I would imagine that if I was going to do something like that, I would want to know exactly how my workouts are affecting my body. Like, okay, I, I lifted weights this day. And then the next day I felt pretty beat up. So I did this and then I recovered, I checked my heart rate or I'm back. I'm good to go. So now this day I'm going to run or this day I'm going to do fingerboard exercises.

4 (28m 46s):
Like I would imagine that there's so much mind fuckery going on when you're going to do something that difficult, that you want to put all these pieces in place the best way possible.

2 (28m 59s):
Yeah. And see, I would argue that all of that is like, it's like too much. It's like too much data. And it's like, that actually gives me a mindfuck versus versus me just waking up and being like, Oh, I feel good today. I'm going to listen to that. Like that little like internal voice. I think I'm a little bit more, a lot of people are super data-driven, especially in climbing and they write everything down and they I'm a little bit more an Adrian. My fiance is very much like that as well. Like he loves the data and for me, I find it too. I, I think it messes with me a little bit. And so to a certain extent, I'm a little more focused on like my, my own mental state and my own like psychology and sort of like, you know, trying to, trying to just figure out how to have confidence.

4 (29m 52s):
Have you ever seen the movie dirt bag? No. No, no, really. Oh, it's amazing. What's it about, it's about a climber, about a guy who literally climbed his whole life. I forget the gentleman's name. He's a famous climber, Fred Beck. I knew who Fred Beckey is dirt bag, meaning that, you know, he would just camp out and sleep on people's couches and climb and then all across the world and was meticulous in his is recording. It's an amazing documentary. Yeah. Even for someone like me who has zero interest in doing that, but he climbed till he'd died. I mean, he just kept going and it shows it in the film. You know, you see footage of him when he was younger.

4 (30m 35s):
Whereas, I mean, there he is like overnight camping prohibited. Nope, fuck you. I'm sleeping here. He slept everywhere. And it just shows like how bizarre his obsession with hiking and camping and climbing was. I mean, he was, he just wanted to get out there and climb all these different peaks and all these different mountains and all these different paths and recorded everything like super meticulously had boxes and boxes of notes. And he would go over the notes and show people routes and all the different things that he learned while he was doing it. I mean, he was obsessed.

4 (31m 15s):
I am just fascinated by people that have a singular obsession like that and carry it for their entire life. Yeah.

2 (31m 23s):
I mean, I think climbing for me and I personally think climbing is very easy to become obsessed with because there's so many different facets to experience it in. Like, you can go to the climbing gym and just play around on some plastic holes or you can work towards climbing something like Mount Everest, and then like everything in the middle. And so there's just a lot to do. Like I just feel like I don't even have, I have like a lifetime's worth of things to do in climbing.

4 (31m 50s):
Hmm. That makes sense. I mean, watching that guy, watching the Fred Becky movie, Becky, right? Yeah. Watching that movie and, and seeing his lifelong obsession, seeing other climbers sort of talk about him and the experiences that they had with him and about like, there's, it's, there's more going on than just climbing, right? It's, there's some sort of strange, it's a chase of a mental state. There's a, there seems to be a mental state of people that climb and want to reach the peaks of these things and, and navigate these difficult routes that it's, there's a, some sort of a game going on in your mind and there's rewards, there's like this, this good feeling that everyone getting while they're doing this, do you like filling yourself up with endorphins when you're accomplishing these things?

4 (32m 45s):
Is that safe to say?

2 (32m 47s):
Yeah, I can agree with that. I mean, I think for me, climbing is my passion and it is essentially like my vehicle for experiencing like, like the, all of the wide spectrum of emotions that we all have. You know, it's my vehicle for exploring fear. It's my vehicle for exploring achievement and success and ego and confidence. And, you know, I think you could really like use anything in order to explore, explore those emotions. But everyone, I think in some ways is trying to find what their vehicle is to explore those emotions. And for me, it truly is climbing like up there on OCAP. Like I went through the whole spectrum of emotions the whole day, just up and down in like the most extreme ways possible.

4 (33m 33s):
And when you have these moments where things don't go well, or you have a fall, or when you had your concussion and you got really banged up overcoming those things, what is that like? Cause I would imagine that it's such a scary thing to do. Well, maybe for me, I know as much for you, but watching pictures of you, my hands, sweat, not like legitimately, like Alex Honnold freaks me out every time I see videos of him. Cause he's got no nothing saving him. My hands start sweating. I can't hear

2 (34m 3s):
No. I think all our hands, sweat when we watched him. But yeah. So for me, it's, I think, for example, when I, when I hit my head this time, the time I got the scar, I was on one of my day had gone so perfectly. Like I was climbing super well, everything was great. I, there it is. Yeah, that was the rock bottom moment. So I was climbing and I was in the sun. I slipped off. I felt like I was just going to have a really normal fall, super safe, like nothing bad was going to happen. And then I hit my head and I instantly like just felt the blood pouring down my face and it was super dramatic and it was super scary. And I lowered down and Adrian sort of assessed me for concussion symptoms and tried to, you know, figure out if there was anything super serious.

2 (34m 50s):
And it turns out that there wasn't really. And so it, it came time to decide like, Oh, should I keep going? Or should I, should I give up like what, you know what, what's the best course of action now. And honestly, in my head, I was like, part of me was like, I don't want to keep climbing. Like I'm emotionally kind of destroyed and, and drained. And I don't know,

4 (35m 13s):
Tell me how it happened. Like what, what was the sequence of events?

2 (35m 17s):
So I was climbing this pitch and it's a pitch that I've never fallen on before. And the next pitch is the hard one, which is where I think I went wrong because I was sort of thinking ahead, like I wasn't focusing on what was happening in front of me. I was thinking about the, the next pitch. And I was like, I need to get this one out of the way. So that can focus on the hard one. And therefore I was climbing the sun when it's too hot. Like the friction's not as good. It's more slippery, all those things. And I was rushing it. I didn't rest enough.

3 (35m 50s):
Friction is not as good when it's hot. Yeah.

2 (35m 52s):
You want it to be cold because your skin sweats and like the rubber on your shoes isn't as sticky. Like it's just the heat, their heat radiates off the rock. It just gets more slippery. Like imagine like a, a granite face just like baking in the sun. Like everything's more slippery and you're, you're all sweaty. And so it's just not ideal. And I could have waited, but I didn't. So I CA I was climbing and I was like, kind of traversing. And so I was trying to do this move and I rushed it and I slipped and I fell, but I had like a piece of gear down into my right. And I just didn't, I just didn't anticipate like the physics of how I was going to fall.

2 (36m 34s):
And I kind of fell sideways and I couldn't get my feet out in front of me in time. And we watched the footage later. It was just like, it was kinda like my head just like bounces off the wall, like a, like a basketball. And I must have just hit like a crystal or something with my forehead, like some sort of something sticking out of the rock. And there was just blood everywhere, like head wounds. They just, you know, they bleed, they bleed a lot. And so there was a lot of blood and I lowered down and I was super bummed. It was just like, my confidence was sort of shattered. Like I could, I just kept thinking back to last year, I was like, Oh no, my attempts over everything was going so well. Like the socks. And I was letting myself go to that place of doubt and that place of like, it's over, it's over.

3 (37m 17s):
And last year when you hit your head, you hit your head much harder.

2 (37m 21s):
Last year, I fell on the first pitch of the route, so close to the ground. And, but I felt like 50 feet and I hit a ledge and didn't the rope. Like, didn't catch me. I hit the ledge because I was again, rushing and not placing enough protection. And

3 (37m 37s):
So you fell 50 feet without being caught. Oh God. Yeah. It was a really, it was pretty gnarly.

2 (37m 45s):
I don't remember. Cause I got knocked out. Yeah. But I had this crazy Roper and on my neck and yeah, it was, it was pretty, I had, yeah, we, I had to get rescued like full on ambulance to the hospital. Like spinal injury worries, all that. It was pretty serious. It was definitely the worst accident I've ever had. And it was, I walked out of the hospital that day, which is incredible. Like that just doesn't happen very often. There's me

3 (38m 17s):
Dressed up like a burrito and what, so this is when they were carrying you to the hospital. Was that?

2 (38m 23s):
Yeah, that's a Roper and I also don't know how that happened.

3 (38m 28s):
Oh, wow. Yeah. Wow. And there's no footage of this, right? You didn't, you didn't review footage of it. Well, it was dark when I

2 (38m 37s):
Started climbing. So actually his footage of Alex Honnold was belaying me. There's footage of him, belaying me. What is blaming? Blaming is the person who holds your rope at the bottom. So he was essentially holding my rope, but it's a little bit nuanced because the way we were climbing, we were doing something called Simon climbing. We were, so we were essentially, I was tied onto the top of the rope. He was tied onto the bottom of the rope and we were climbing together up the wall simultaneously in order to save time. And it's actually, it is a more dangerous form of climbing than just like one person climbing while the other person believes them. And then they, and then I would stop and bring him up and then we'd go on from there. Like instead we were climbing together.

3 (39m 20s):
That makes me nervous just thinking about it. So if someone falls, you're kind of connected to them.

2 (39m 25s):
Yeah. We were always connected to somebody when you fall. But if he had fallen, it would, it's, it's kind of a complicated form of climbing that not many people do. It's definitely like a, an advanced strategy.

3 (39m 39s):
And so was someone filming?

2 (39m 42s):
Yeah. I have a, I have a filmer. Who's making like a, a movie about me and he was filming. Cause he was there filming that attempt. And he was filming Alex as Alex was like sitting on the ground, getting ready.

3 (39m 55s):
And have you reviewed the footage? Yeah. What is it like watching yourself?

2 (39m 59s):
It's pretty like, it's, it's hard. It was hard. I didn't watch it for the first few months. I was like, I don't really want it.

3 (40m 4s):
How long does it take to fall? 50 feet would imagine that's a few seconds.

2 (40m 9s):
I dunno. What's the fall. Isn't it like not nine point. Yeah. 9.8 meters.

5 (40m 20s):
Mm

3 (40m 20s):
Oh. So it's a couple seconds. At least,

2 (40m 24s):
At least it felt that way.

5 (40m 31s):
So yeah.

2 (40m 31s):
So that was, that was something like a mental hurdle to get over for this year. And then this year, something similar happens only I was way higher on the wall, but I was really close to succeeding this time. And I had this part of me was like, well, I just want to give up, like, I don't want to do this anymore. I want to be done. Like, I'm tired of this project.

3 (40m 51s):
When you got over the first injury, the, the, the really bad one from last year. What was the process of recovery? Like how long did it take before you felt comfortable enough to climb again?

2 (41m 1s):
You know, I was super lucky. I think I definitely got away with one. It was one of those things where I got away with one, like I walked out of the hospital, I was back climbing. I took, I think I took a month off, but I went to, like, I went to Ecuador and climb to a volcano with my dad and like went skiing and just did a bunch of things. Like how long is fine? We went to Ecuador like four days later.

3 (41m 27s):
Yeah. Crazy father. Do you have? He's

2 (41m 30s):
Awesome. My dad loves all sports and activities and he's like super passionate about everything. And this was his dream was to like go climb this volcano in Ecuador and we'd been planning it for months. And I actually felt that was one of the reasons I felt so bad that I got hurt. It was like, I was like, Oh no, I'm supposed to go on this trip with my dad. And like we had, you know, we had this whole plan. He's been training. He trained like for months he's 65 years old. Like, Hey, you know, it was one of those things. So we went and we climbed the mountain and like, thankfully I was able to do that with him. It was really

4 (42m 0s):
What kind of like physical damage did you suffer in terms of like, how long did it take for you to re

2 (42m 8s):
I, I honestly, I would say I felt pretty normal within a month. Yeah. A little back pain, but concussion. Percussion. Yeah. The concussion symptoms were a little gnarly for a little while, but

4 (42m 19s):
Four days later you're climbing a goddamn volcano. Yeah.

2 (42m 22s):
Well we're headed there. Yeah. How

4 (42m 24s):
Long after that, before you were actually climbing?

2 (42m 28s):
I I maybe like three weeks.

4 (42m 31s):
So while you were suffering from some, at least concussion symptoms you were feeling

2 (42m 37s):
Yeah, not recommended. We went to the doctor and she was like, you can't, you can't go to Ecuador. You shouldn't do that. And I was like, yeah, that's nice.

4 (42m 47s):
When, when you watch the footage of the fall and you, you know, you see yourself hit the wall and the, just the impact. And what happened to you does that obviously didn't deter you from doing anything, but has it changed the way you approach climate?

2 (43m 7s):
Yes and no. I, I think the reason that it was a little bit easier for me to overcome that hurdle was because I was, it was really obvious what had gone wrong. And it was really obvious that the, what had gone wrong wrong was within my control. Like I simply had not placed enough protection for the difficulty of the route. It was an easy, easy climbing for me, but it was really dark. It was cold, it was slippery. And I was like, I was just going too fast and not placing enough gear.

4 (43m 37s):
So, but can you explain that to people? So when you're doing a route or a route, when you're on your way up, you decide, okay, I need to play something here in case I fall. And do you do it more when it's more difficult and you gave yourself a lot of space?

2 (43m 54s):
I did. I gave myself a lot of space because I'd done it so many times before and I wanted to, so I only had, you only have like a certain number, like a certain amount of pieces of gear. Right. And Alex and I were trying to go really fast and climb the first part of the route within, you know, within a couple hours. And so I was trying to conserve the gear. So I was trying to like, not use it very often, so we could cover more distance in, in one go, you know, cause otherwise you, then you have to stop. And then like, cause he follows me and takes the gear out. So I place it, he takes it out on the way up and then we meet and he gives it back to me and then start again. And so I was essentially just trying to conserve Gira wasn't placing enough.

2 (44m 38s):
And so the next time around, I was like, well, I'll just place more gear. Like I'll just be a little more conservative. And so this season, it was a lot of, it was some baby steps of like going back to that route and just placing a lot of gears. So they felt super safe. And then, you know, climbing it in the same style that I was going to climb it with Alex Simon climbing it, but still placing more gear. And then during my try this year, I actually told Alex, cause he was, he's definitely more comfortable than almost anyone I know on El cap. Most people at least feel a little bit of intimidation, a little bit of fear. Like, you know, there's a little bit of anxiety around it and he's just so casual that he was like, Hey, you should just like, you know, just run it out. Like, Oh, go all the way.

2 (45m 19s):
Like he was basically just wanting me to do it the same way that I was doing it before. And I was like, you know, Alex, I'm going to be a little slower this time. Like I just, I think I need that for my head. And

3 (45m 31s):
So he felt like you should do it with the same amount of gear that you did before you just don't fall. Just don't fall this time.

6 (45m 36s):
Emily real simple.

2 (45m 38s):
Yeah. He was like, you know, but Alex, one thing he always says is he's just like, okay, follow your heart. And I was like, okay, well I'm going to go slower.

3 (45m 48s):
Just so the audience knows. Alex told me that he did a route once and on his way up realize that he hadn't brought any chalk. So he had to borrow it from someone else who was strapped to ropes. So he's free soloing. Yeah. No chalk says, Hey, I don't have any chalk. And the guy gives him a bag and said he left the bag at the top so that when they got to the top, they could retrieve the bag.

2 (46m 17s):
Yeah. That's a classic Alex situation.

3 (46m 21s):
Like how do you not bring, like if you lift weights, you like chalk. It's like, it's very important for me to get a good grip

2 (46m 29s):
Of obsessed with having chocolate. I don't have chocolate, I just won't go climbing.

6 (46m 34s):
But I, you know, I

2 (46m 35s):
Think he's the type of person that, you know, going back to like talking about heart rate. Like I bet, I bet when he's in those types of situations, like he's so relaxed and his heart rate is so low and he's just, he's a different, I think he's truly unique, you know? And I think, I think that he just has a different like even brain chemistry than, than a lot of us in terms of like how he feels fear and how he can maintain that composure in a very dangerous situation.

3 (47m 5s):
Well, he's remarkably calm all the time. Like he just seems always like on this one plane. Yeah. He's got like this like 55 beats per minute that he just stays at all the time. Yep.

2 (47m 18s):
And it's great climbing with him actually, because it kind of rubs off on me a little bit. Like when I climb with Alex, I feel more confident. I feel more capable. I tend to climb better even though he kind of gives me shit all the time being nervous. He's always like, you're always nervous. Like you're, you're always stressing out, but it's actually, when I'm with him, I'm like, you know what? I, I can chill out a little bit. I can like, I can, I can be on that wavelength a little bit more. So that's part of the reason why I like climbing with him up there and why I chose him for this project.

4 (47m 45s):
Well, that makes sense. I mean, I guess when you're around people that are, if you're doing a thing and you're around people that are excellent at that thing, it's contagious or at least inspirational.

2 (47m 56s):
Yeah. I mean, I think it's important to like, do yeah. Do practice practice things that you want to be better at with people who are better.

4 (48m 3s):
Yeah. For sure. What was it like, do you remember vividly your first date climbing after the injury?

2 (48m 14s):
Yeah, it was in Ecuador. I went to this little like crag little climbing area after we climbed the volcano and I, I remember climbing, but I had like back pain, you know, and it was yeah. From the Andrea. And I just remember thinking like, Oh, I'm still not back. Like, I'm going to have to like, maybe I'm not ready yet. You know, it was one of those for me. I've always been the person who I don't really give myself a break very easily and I'm, I'm pretty hard on myself. But this time I think I learned a pretty valuable lesson that was like, I do need to be a little bit more gentle with myself and be okay with like taking a step back.

2 (48m 58s):
So I actually tried climbing and I was like, Nope, not today. I'm not going to do it today. And I just took photos for the rest of the day. And then I didn't climb again until maybe three weeks later.

4 (49m 7s):
What do you do to try to recover from something like that in terms of like physical recovery, do you, do you dig, take ice baths? Do you try to stretch? Do you get massage? Like how do you, when you, you feel like beat up or something like that, how do you, how do you bounce back?

2 (49m 24s):
Yeah. Massage. I do. As often as I can, not enough. And then really, really light stretching, like foam rolling. I have like little travel lacrosse ball that I lay on sometimes. But again, I am not as, as diligent with it as I probably should be, but, but then after I got injured, I was really diligent about it. I think it's something that you kind of should maintain though. And I definitely don't do that

4 (49m 55s):
Now. Do you do this professionally? Is this all you do? How long has that been the case?

2 (50m 4s):
I, well, I guess I should say that I became like a true professional rock climber when I joined the North face team. And that was in 2008, right after I graduated from college.

4 (50m 14s):
That's a long time. It's a really long time. Yeah. Yeah. So you've been a pro for 12 years.

2 (50m 19s):
Yeah. 12 years. And before that, I was like doing a lot of competitions and, you know, had sponsors and stuff like that, but I was also in school and then I went university and I wanted to be a lawyer actually. So I graduated from the university of Colorado in Boulder and I was going to like study for the LSAT and that's when the North face approached me. And I was like, okay, well I'll try this for a little while and see how it goes. Like it's a cool opportunity to travel and see the world and keep climbing. And then I just didn't.

4 (50m 51s):
Were you, were you hesitant to say no, but you went to school for something else and then you're doing something physical. That's always weird. Right? Because you're relying on your body, which can break

2 (51m 4s):
Back my, my mindset. I think I was 20 years old. Like I didn't really, you know, I didn't have like a super good like ten-year plan or whatever, you know, I was like, I'll do this for a few years and then I can just go back to school. Right. Like, that's, that's great. But now being a professional athlete, like is sort of like morphed into this viable option to make a living well, for me, at least.

4 (51m 27s):
And when you're sponsored, like how does that work? Do you, are you required to do a certain amount of clients per year? Are you required to make social media posts? Like how did, how did they, how does it work?

2 (51m 37s):
Yeah, so I work with a bunch of companies, but the North face is the main one. And it's essentially, I mean, yeah, it's essentially like kind of a, it's like a marketing job. Like we're, we are expected, I wouldn't say required, but expected to participate in social media, tell our stories, like be, you know, be open about that. And then we do a lot of photo shoots. We do a lot of expeditions, a lot of big trips and then personal projects as well. And, and yeah, I kind of expected to tell the stories of those and to work with the brand, to, you know, make it worth their while as well.

4 (52m 15s):
So they just kind of want you to be cool and wear their stuff. Like you're out there doing cool stuff. And you were in the North

2 (52m 22s):
Face brand and like, yeah.

4 (52m 24s):
Is that, how's that feel like to be like, that's what you do for a living?

2 (52m 30s):
Yeah. I would be lying if I said that I didn't feel sometimes a little bit of like imposter syndrome, you know, kind of like, Oh, like, do I actually deserve this? Like that happens with everybody though. Yeah. I think so. Like, why am I like, why am I here? Like I don't, I'm not special.

4 (52m 52s):
Right. Well, that's probably why you're special. I think. Yeah. I, so I think people that like actually think they're special genuinely are they, that's a, that's a more of a hindrance. I think you're better off with. Yeah. I think you're better off feeling like shit. You're better off. I do. Cause I think, I think it makes you work harder. I th I really do think that people that think they deserve success and the people that think they're awesome. I think you don't have as much nervousness or at least doubt, which forces you to work harder. Yeah. I think there's, there's a real value in feeling fake.

4 (53m 32s):
Like feeling like, how am I here until like these other people are, they're really good. Like, I know so many successful people that think that way, whether it's athletes or comedians or so many people suffer from imposter syndrome. And I think thrill I've, I've experienced it. Yeah. I think it's important. I think it makes you work harder because you just, I think if you just think you're the shit, like, you're not gonna, you're not gonna have that extra edge.

2 (53m 59s):
Yeah. And I guess like admitting to it, it also like makes you more relatable to people. I think like admitting that you struggle with self-confidence and like imposter syndrome and feeling like you're not good enough all the time is it helps other people be like, Oh yeah, yeah. Cool. I feel that way too.

4 (54m 15s):
Yeah. Well, it's, I think it's valuable for all of us because we, we want to know that you are human, right? Like you're doing a superhuman thing. Right. You're climbing the face of a giant goddamn mountain. It's crazy. When someone does something that everyone else is terrified of, we want to know like, what does that lady like? Like what does, and when you're like, ah, I feel like a fake people, like, Oh,

2 (54m 38s):
I'm terrified most of the time. And I cry a lot. That's what it's like. People love to hear that they do. They really do.

4 (54m 47s):
It's very valuable when you can relate like genuine anxiety and fears and things to people because you are doing an extraordinary thing with your life. I mean, how many professional rock climbers are there?

2 (55m 2s):
Yeah. I mean, there's, there's a few, there's not many, there's more now a lot more lawyers. Yeah. That's true.

4 (55m 9s):
It's a lot more now than when you first started.

2 (55m 12s):
Yeah, for sure. I mean, climbing is kind of exploded in popularity in a way with the, like the resurgence of climbing gyms. Like there's climbing gyms in every, every city now, mostly

4 (55m 24s):
Really good way to get a workout. Like give it don't realize how hard it is to do.

2 (55m 28s):
It's really hard. I mean, yeah. I love it. I think it's so cool that people now have access to like experience climbing in the inner city if they want to. I think it's rad. And it also, now it's an Olympic sport, so, or it will be in the Olympics next year. It was meant to be in Tokyo.

4 (55m 43s):
Well, they do it as an Olympic sport. They have a particular path that you have to try to climb up. And

2 (55m 47s):
So it's three disciplines because it's new, it's a new sport. They've essentially combined like the three main disciplines of competition climbing into one. So there's one metal and they combine the scores and they have a lead climbing, which is with a rope. But like the routes are longer like say, I don't know, 50 feet or so. So it's sort of like an endurance challenge. And it's like, they set a path and that it's meant to be difficult. And each person gets one try and whoever gets the highest wins that discipline. And then there's bouldering, which is like shorter, no ropes. The movements are like more powerful, more explosive. There's a little bit of a par core element.

2 (56m 27s):
There's like a lot of jumping around. Yeah. There you go. Lots of like big features, like volumes. There's

3 (56m 34s):
That guy going?

2 (56m 37s):
Yeah, exactly. We're using super entertaining.

3 (56m 41s):
If you're hanging in that position, what is your next viable?

2 (56m 45s):
He's going to throw his feet up to where his left hand is. And then he's going to bring his left hand into his right hand.

3 (56m 54s):
Yeah, just that's my,

2 (56m 55s):
That's my estimate. That's me reading. And then he's going to go that next drag one, the sticker on it. That one. Yeah. It's incredible. Like bouldering competitions are so cool. Oh my God. They're super entertaining.

3 (57m 8s):
And they all have that sort of Alex Honnold body long lean,

2 (57m 13s):
But not, but not everyone. Like a lot of the women are quite short, like quite small. It's kind of like climbing is so climbing is unique because it's really complicated and it kind of caters to all different bodies, body types in a lot of ways, it's better to be taller. But in other ways it's like sometimes better to be shorter because it's always different. The routes are always different.

3 (57m 33s):
I would imagine tall would be better because you have a longer reach. You can reach up

2 (57m 37s):
Most of the time, but I can put my feet a lot higher than a lot of people. And I'm a lot more flexible than most people. What do you mean where you can put your feet? Like I can put my foot like above my head if I were

3 (57m 46s):
Because you're flexible from gymnastics. Yeah. Oh, interesting. And do you maintain that? Do you like work on your flexibility just specifically for that? I should. I don't. There's a lot of this with you. I know I should get one.

2 (57m 60s):
You can't do everything. So that's lead climbing. So that's what the rope. And you can just get one, try on the route with the bouldering. You got, you get like, they call them problems. So you get maybe four or five of those problems and you get five minutes on each one. And however you do on each one gives you a score and then you have speed, which is right there. Same route everywhere all the time. And it's just, it's speed.

3 (58m 27s):
I've seen some of those speed ones. We've watched them

2 (58m 29s):
On the show with Alex. Yeah. It's really fast.

3 (58m 32s):
They go flying super. Yeah. Yeah. It's really, really cool. It doesn't seem real. Like how does a person get up a wall?

2 (58m 40s):
I don't know. I mean, they also have a different speed. Climbers actually have a different body type than a lot of the like sport climbers and boulders, because a lot of it is like really low body explosion. Yeah. So that's the Olympics.

3 (58m 55s):
Whoops. This is music to the explosion. I look at these guys going, this is so the rope is not helping them. That's what's crazy because if you saw someone just make up their way up a wall like that, no rule like that is insane. Yeah. So that's speed climbing. Do you have to be so strong to do that? I mean, that is just bonkers. Wow.

2 (59m 17s):
Yeah. I've never, I've actually never, never speak land. Really, really not like that. I just, because I've always focused so much on, on technical difficult rock climbing and other things like mountains and all these other disciplines was this person doing that's bouldering.

3 (59m 36s):
Oh, okay. So this is trying to figure out how to do, trying to solve the problem of blank. She's not, she has no rope, so she's up. So if she falls, she's just gonna,

2 (59m 45s):
She just going to hit the, the pads, the pads are super clear, almost like a pole vaulting pads, kind of maybe a little more firm than that.

3 (59m 55s):
Okay. Wow. That's wild to say. Yeah. So that's the Olympics. Yeah. You're not interested in that.

2 (59m 59s):
I mean, I, I would have been, if I was like 10 years younger, I there's no way I could qualify for the Olympics. No way. Why, why is it that because it's, it's such a different, it's a different, it's almost like a different sport. And it takes like the dedication to only doing that for years and years and years. And I did that throughout my teenage years. And then I kind of moved on to other things.

3 (1h 0m 27s):
I would imagine that hand strength is one of the most important things. Like the ability to hang on to stuff.

2 (1h 0m 33s):
Yeah. That's why I like travel with my hang board and hang all the time and like do a lot of where do you put the hanger where you traveling? Yeah. I bring those up. Pull up bars that you like screw on between the door jam and then I hang it from there.

3 (1h 0m 46s):
Wow. And then you just hang. So if you're staying in a hotel, you just like eat hanging in the bathroom wall on the door. Yeah. Wow. And do you do it for time? Do you do reps? Do you chin-ups what do you do on that? Yeah.

2 (1h 0m 60s):
All of that. There's like little there's exercises you can do. There's a lot of research now that's been done on finger strength and yeah, I, the one I have is wood because the wood is actually a little bit friendlier for your skin, but yeah, similar, you do different hand positions and sometimes you'll hang for like five seconds and then take 10 seconds off and do it again. And then sometimes you put weight on your body. Mano, a mano

3 (1h 1m 25s):
Can hang from one finger. People

2 (1h 1m 27s):
Can do crazy stuff. People can do pull ups from one finger,

3 (1h 1m 32s):
One hand, one finger. Pull-ups

2 (1h 1m 33s):
The new front leavers from like one finger. There's all climbers are amazing collaborators lever. When you like put your body to

3 (1h 1m 43s):
Parallel to the ground,

2 (1h 1m 46s):
I bet you could find a video of that.

3 (1h 1m 51s):
So someone can learn, Oh my God, I can't do that. That is freaky. Yon. Holger is a Beastie single finger plank man machine.

2 (1h 2m 4s):
I would

3 (1h 2m 4s):
Agree with that statement. Look at that. That's crazy that he can do that. Yeah. That guy was, have ridiculous fingers. One of the strongest climbers in the world. Yeah. I would

2 (1h 2m 13s):
Imagine. Yeah. That's that's bananas.

3 (1h 2m 15s):
Is this him climbing stuff with no feet? Yeah. That's the, the tendons and all the stuff in your fingers and your hands. Like, they must be ridiculous, but you could think, Oh my God, that's crazy.

7 (1h 2m 32s):
If you lost your pinky lose 50% of the strength in your hand. Well, yeah, I did not. We'll have confirmation on that. It's one of those like Snapple fact type facts I saw on the internet recently. But is that possible? It's a bummer.

3 (1h 2m 44s):
Doesn't seem right. Because when I draw my bow back, I'm only using three fingers,

2 (1h 2m 50s):
But maybe it's like the way it's all connected. You know?

7 (1h 2m 53s):
I think it's like, if you cut it off, not like if you've done other work, like to strengthen the rest of your hand or your,

3 (1h 2m 58s):
Well, I guess I'll go back. I'm barely used. I mean, my hand was just kind of locked in, place more on my back and shoulders, but I feel like that's not real. Maybe, maybe you're right. And

2 (1h 3m 15s):
Your forearms and everything. That's what makes sense.

3 (1h 3m 17s):
Yeah. Will you squeeze it? Your pinky provides half your hand strength. Wow. Stick your pinkies out and raise your glasses to toast your fifth finger without it. Your hand would be half as strong. Wow. This is weird. The things are connected in that way. Yeah. You know, it's, there's a sort of, it's a unit. It's not one thing it's a lot

2 (1h 3m 42s):
Going on. It's all working together.

3 (1h 3m 44s):
Yeah. So when you do your hand, strength exercises, do you have like a routine where you go one, two, three, four, you'll recall them or,

2 (1h 3m 50s):
Yeah, I do too. I tend to do like hand grip positions. Like I'll hold on to something like this and I'll hold on to something like this and I'll hold on to something like this.

3 (1h 3m 59s):
He must have looked ridiculous.

2 (1h 4m 1s):
I mean, my hands are strong, but they're not like that's one of my weaknesses I think in climbing is my finger strength. So I'm always working on it.

3 (1h 4m 8s):
You have to make sure that you, your body weight is very light when you do something like that too. Like, do you diet down before you do something to make sure that you're as light as,

2 (1h 4m 17s):
Yeah, it's an, it's an interesting subject because climbing is like a strength to weight ratio. Sport does benefit you to be lighter, but at the same time, it's really easy to take it too far. And I think, and then once you take it too far, it's it can be very bad. Like injuries, weaker and eating disorders is like kind of a, yeah, it's definitely a thing in climbing. That's an, I suffered from it when I was younger, when I was in comp heavily involved in competitions. Like, and it's like, once you start to experience a little bit of success from losing weight, like there's so much more incentive to just like keep going down that road.

2 (1h 4m 59s):
And I think it's actually a pretty dangerous road. And it's something that we're climbers are starting to talk about more, which I think is, is super good, super healthy, especially like with the growth of climbing competitions and with the growth of, of youth, like becoming more interested in climbing, right?

3 (1h 5m 15s):
The, that the edge that you get from doing that, not worth pursuing

4 (1h 5m 19s):
Because there's a lot of negative drawbacks to it.

2 (1h 5m 21s):
It is, and it's pretty temporary and it's not very sustainable. And you know, in a lot of ways, I feel lucky that I came out of that period and like kept climbing because it's hard, it's hard to, to go through that phase and then sort of come out of it and have to deal with like, not climbing as well for a while. And what does that mean? And you know, it's, it's kind of a mind fuck. And so that's why, that's why, that's why I talk about data the way I do, because sometimes it's like, I just can't, I can't like emotionally handle it. I need to like take a step back and just be intuitive.

4 (1h 5m 54s):
Mm. Yeah. Sometimes there's too much data and not enough just being yeah.

2 (1h 5m 60s):
Yeah. And I was one of those, I was one of those athletes when I was younger, that I was like obsessed with the number on the scale. I was obsessed with how much I ate. I was obsessed with every little thing. And it got to the point where it just almost destroyed me. If that makes sense.

4 (1h 6m 17s):
That's a giant problem with people. Right. But yeah, just in general being obsessed with the scale and the numbers. Yeah. And if you're in a sport where you're literally carrying your body, weight up a mountain, it's not just like so many girls are obsessed with the scale, for whatever reason. Even if they look good, they don't like the number. Like you look great, but you weigh 145 pounds. Like, shit, I hate that. I want to be one 35. Like, but you don't like, this is crazy. Like, what are you doing?

2 (1h 6m 45s):
Yeah. I think it's complicated. Cause then I think, yeah, it's society, especially as a woman, you cut, you kind of tie your self worth to it. And then you tie like your yeah. Your value to society to it. And then if you bring in the athletic side, it's like a lot to handle. So yeah, that's something I've, I mean, I still struggle with it.

4 (1h 7m 3s):
It's so interesting. There's this woman who is on Instagram, I forget her name, but she's a beast. And I mean that in the best way, she's just a fucking tank. She's so strong. And I don't know what she does. Some sort of fitness trainer or something like that. But she got on a scale to show that she's 180 pounds and she's like, I'm 180 pounds all when she looks fantastic. Like there's no doubt about it. She's in amazing shape. But she's a big gal. But by getting on that scale and showing like, Hey, like fuck your numbers. I was like, that is, that is great. And very saying sounds so crazy to say, especially as a man that it's brave of her to show her way. Cause men don't give a fuck. Like if you're one 80, if a man's one 80 or one 70 or one like, no, unless you're trying to get big, you don't care.

4 (1h 7m 46s):
Or unless you're trying to lose weight, like no guy says, Oh no, woman's going to like me. I'm, you know, one 95 instead of a one 70, like that's nonsense. No guy thinks like that. Like a number like you have to like, no one want, I don't want anybody to know my number, but for a woman that's a big issue.

2 (1h 8m 2s):
It's a big issue for sure. And it's like, I mean, I don't weigh myself anymore because I'm just like, I don't, I don't need to deal with that.

4 (1h 8m 10s):
It's common for women that have had those issues, they just decide, you know what, I'm just going to be healthy and look good and

3 (1h 8m 17s):
Not think

2 (1h 8m 17s):
About it. Yeah. Yeah. And that's one of the things that's been, there's a lot of things that I actually don't like about social media, but that's one thing that I've really appreciated is like women, like you're talking about like sharing those things and being like, yeah, this is who I am.

3 (1h 8m 29s):
I think she gets enough likes, like she gets, yeah, she's hot. She knows what she's doing. Like she's kind of being brave, but also, yeah, she's she gets enough compliments, but you know, she's like six foot one or something like that, but she's a tank. Yeah. But I just, I admired that. She put that number out there. She showed it and she was like, look, this is who I am. Yeah. And for a lot of people, that's important because there's probably people that are struggling with their own weight and they see her and they go, Oh, okay. I'm gonna, I'm going to take a little of that. I'm gonna, I'm gonna adopt a little bit of that attitude.

3 (1h 9m 9s):
And just, just don't worry about the number, but yeah. When people get obsessed with stuff like that, it's so, it's so interesting because it's so, it's so sad when you see people that are anorexic. Like there was a woman that was anorexic in my yoga class and vividly remember being in class, you know, laying down the mat and looking over and just go like, Oh no, like being, looking at this girl who was like a skeleton, like, what do you say that she was only, she was young. Right. She's probably in her twenties and I'm looking at her and I'm thinking shit. And then I asked a yoga instructor who was my friend. I said, do you know her? Like, what is her deal? She was like, yeah. She's, you know, she's struggling.

3 (1h 9m 50s):
And she doesn't think she is, and it's a real issue. And I don't know what to do. And I'm like, what? You can't even say anything. What do you say?

2 (1h 9m 56s):
Yeah. It's hard to, I think it's hard to talk about because it's not really talked about,

3 (1h 10m 1s):
And that's not my place. I don't know her. It's so personal. Yeah.

2 (1h 10m 4s):
It's super personal. And I think it's, it's a tricky subject for sure. Like I've had people come to me and be like, what do I do? Like I have a friend who, you know, it seems like they're struggling and it's, it's hard because going through it myself, it was whenever people brought it up, you get very defensive and it's really easy to be like, well, I'm, I don't have a problem. I'm fine. You know, like, it's, it's, you know, I'm doing this for my sport. This is what I need to do. This is how it needs to be. And so I think it's a struggle sort of like navigating how to deal with that. Especially with, you know, friends and family or something like that. But I think, you know, I think just overall shifting the culture behind it is maybe a possible slew.

3 (1h 10m 45s):
Now, when your, when you're training for something big like this, do you alter your diet? Do you have specific foods that you eat when you train or do you just always maintain a healthy diet?

2 (1h 10m 58s):
I'm pretty healthy. I also, because of, of my past like obsessiveness about food, I try to not worry about it too much also because I travel so much and I love food and I love sharing food and cooking food, eating food. It's just, I don't like, I don't necessarily worry too much about what I eat. I'm very healthy eater. I like everything. I, I don't, I try not to worry about it too much. If I want to eat ice cream, ice cream,

3 (1h 11m 30s):
A long climb like that. Do you carb load before you do it? Do you carry a lot of food with you or? Yeah.

2 (1h 11m 35s):
Carry a lot of food with me. It's hard for me to eat on the wall. It's hard for me to like, cause I'm, I get nervous, you get nervous, you lose your appetite and all those things. And so I try to bring like simple foods with me on the wall and like a mix of fat. It just, you know, well balanced and easy. I don't usually bring like meals. Like I actually brought a burrito on the wall the day that I was going to climb and I didn't eat any of it.

3 (1h 12m 3s):
So you didn't need it all while you were on the wall or you just didn't eat.

2 (1h 12m 5s):
I didn't eat the burrito. I ate like cereal and nuts and beef jerky and candy,

3 (1h 12m 14s):
But it's probably good to, to get some extra sugar. Right. Yeah. That's exactly why. Yeah. And replace the glycogen in your muscles. And so what is your diet like normally? Like what kind of foods do you eat? Let me say, eat healthy. Do you?

2 (1h 12m 29s):
Yeah, I eat super healthy. I love like, I, I love like pancakes in the morning, but like with protein and avocado toast and you know, eggs, whatever salad, vegetables,

3 (1h 12m 43s):
Amount of calories doing that too. Sometimes

2 (1h 12m 45s):
It depends on, you know, it depends what you're doing. If you're free climbing El Capitan and day then yes. But if you're just going to the gym for an hour and a half, or if you're just hanging on the hang board,

3 (1h 12m 52s):
If you have a one that like, I see you have some sort of a fitness watch on what do you, what are you wearing? Right.

2 (1h 12m 56s):
I have this it's new, actually. Adrian got it for me. It's a Garmin. It's like a Phoenix Sapphire.

3 (1h 13m 4s):
Oh cool. Sweet learning. Thanks. Does that measure output calories, heart rate.

2 (1h 13m 9s):
It's meant to, yeah. It, it measures your heart rate. I use it for like my running and stuff.

3 (1h 13m 14s):
I'd be so curious to see how many calories you burn on a 21 hour trip up the side of the,

2 (1h 13m 20s):
I would imagine thousands. That's the thing. I don't wear it when I climb because you put your hands in the cracks and they get all stuck. Right.

3 (1h 13m 27s):
That's right. I should've thought of that. Yeah. Th but the amount, like, it's also like a mental thing too, right? Your mind must be burning a shit ton of calories. Yeah.

2 (1h 13m 38s):
I think there's a lot of mental fatigue that goes on.

3 (1h 13m 40s):
We were talking to the other day about a chess masters and that when chess, masters playing these tournaments, they burned 6,000 calories a day. Really? Yeah. They found out that these guys were losing incredible amounts of weight over a weekend. Just thinking this thinking. I could see that. Yeah. I mean, I guess it's makes sense, but your brain, when you're calculating, like all these different maneuvers in different places that your opponent can move his pieces, you're just constantly, you got all these RPMs going, even though you're sitting there, your body's just burning off fuel. Yeah. That makes a lot of sense, actually. So I'd imagine some of that's going on too with you.

3 (1h 14m 21s):
Cause you're physically climbing, but you're also thinking you're calculating, you're trying to stay calm. You're there's a lot going on. Yeah. Do you meditate? Do you have any mental exercises that you can?

2 (1h 14m 36s):
I, I visualize. So I'm one of those people, like I can, I can almost remember every move of like the golden gate said, I'll let go. I'll like lay in bed at night and like go through all the moves over and over and over again, almost to a fault, you know? Like I can remember things really well and I'll go over sequences and I'll, I'll lay down and I'll think about myself climbing, like executing these sequences really perfectly.

3 (1h 15m 6s):
So you know where all the handholds are, where the footholds are, you know what freaks me out about that stuff. It's like, don't those break off sometimes.

2 (1h 15m 14s):
Yeah. It, it happens occasionally. Yep. It depends on the type, the type of rock. Like some rock is more prone to breaking than others, but it doesn't happen occasionally. Not very often. Yeah. And especially like the well-traveled roots. Yeah.

3 (1h 15m 30s):
We don't have it. Some giant person was on it before you, and they put their heavy ass on that handhold. Yeah. Sometimes I worry about that. I would imagine. Yeah. And then you go to grab

2 (1h 15m 41s):
It and yeah.

3 (1h 15m 43s):
So it was looking at some of the things that Alex was holding onto when he was free soloing. And I'm like, what, what, what are you doing?

2 (1h 15m 51s):
Yeah. Yeah. That's, you know, that, that rock is pretty solid though. And a lot of people like climb that route and it's, it's been there for, you know, forever.

3 (1h 16m 1s):
And when you're, when you're imagining it in your head, do you like sit yourself down and go through the whole? Because I mean, the path takes 21 hours to do so you can't really go through the whole thing.

2 (1h 16m 11s):
Yeah. I mean, I skip over some of the easy parts, but the hard parts I have, like really ingrained in my brain to the point where I think it's kind of hinders me sometimes. Cause I'll go through all the, I'll go through the moves and then I'll go through all the things that can go wrong. And then that kind of messes with me a little bit, write it down. I have written it down to yeah, draw. I draw it out only I can understand it, but I draw it out

3 (1h 16m 36s):
Sort of a Emily code. Yeah.

2 (1h 16m 39s):
It's like, I just like tried to draw the holds and then I, I right where my feet go and where my hands go.

3 (1h 16m 45s):
You think of this career that you are currently involved in as a life journey. Is this going to be something that you do your whole life? Yes. So you are a climber. Yes. Do you have any other ideas of things that you would like to do in this life or you just, this is your career? No matter,

2 (1h 17m 5s):
I mean, I think at this point, this is my career. I'm pretty well-established as a professional rock climber and I feel, yeah, I'm not bored. I, this is what I want. I, there, I am super excited for future opportunities for future objectives and goals and things like that. And Adrian and I have sort of like built this life together. Did you meet him climbing? I did. I met him on, I met him on Mount Everest. Yeah. It's risking our lives. Yeah. Yeah. And he has a, he has a guide. He has a guiding business alongside his professional athlete career.

2 (1h 17m 46s):
And so yeah, I feel like we've just built this. We've built this life together and we're, we're both super passionate and supportive of each other and you know, and I, I want to have a family. I think we want to have a family someday.

4 (1h 17m 57s):
It's really cool that you're involved with someone who has the same passion too. Like they'll understand you.

2 (1h 18m 5s):
Yeah. It's, it's super important. And it it's important because you know, both of us go away on our, on separate trips sometimes. And you know, instead of the other person, just like sitting at home, kind of like worrying and stressing out, you know, we kind of understand what the other person is going through. It just, it feels like we have a really like symbiotic relationship in that way because we really do understand what the other person does

4 (1h 18m 30s):
Beyond. I mean, no other person is ever a person who doesn't climb at all. I would imagine it'd be hard. Yeah. Well my female friends that are comedians have the sort of same attitude about normies, what they call normies. Like some normal person who doesn't do comedy. Like they're never gonna understand them. Right? Like, like just that thing. I have some female friends, like my friend Eliza Slessinger she has a husband who was a chef and they were, it works out great. But a lot of them they'll try like regular people and they wind up dating comedians. Cause like, no, one's gonna understand them

2 (1h 19m 3s):
The same joke in climbing. I think it's like, people always say like, Oh, I'd really like to not date a climber. But then it's like, well then you gotta like, go do other things besides climbing, what are you going to do? Where are you going to meet those people? And then when you meet them, what are you going to do with them? Exactly. Like where are you going to go? You didn't go out to eat, I guess,

4 (1h 19m 22s):
Hey, I'm going to go climb for 20 hours. What are you doing today, Bob?

2 (1h 19m 27s):
Yeah, exactly. We'll come climb with me bitch. Yeah, exactly. Yeah.

4 (1h 19m 32s):
The Mount Everest thing is odd one, right? Because it seems to be sort of, there's like a weird sort of bucket list thing. That's also attached to like a social it's there's like a social metal to a, all a climbed Everest. Yeah.

2 (1h 19m 52s):
I have a very intense love, hate relationship with Mount Everest. It is like, I, I was very fortunate to be able to go on an expedition climb Mount Everest. And that's where I met Adrian. And you know, my life sort of changed directions after that, but that said like, he goes back to Everest every single year. So to guide or for his own personal projects or, or whatever that may be because he, he, he guides Everest every year. And, and so for me, it's like ever, it's just became like a part of a part of my everyday life. Like it's always, you're always planning for the next expedition or on the expedition or, or thinking about the expedition. And so it's like, it, it just kind of took over in a way for a few years there.

2 (1h 20m 36s):
And I got really, really tired of it.

3 (1h 20m 38s):
How many times have you climbed Everest? I've only gone

2 (1h 20m 40s):
To once Adrian's gone to eight times. How many bodies did you see? That's a common question I get and it it's, there are bodies on Everest. I maybe saw like two or three. Yeah.

3 (1h 20m 56s):
That is one of the most wild things about Everest.

2 (1h 21m 2s):
It's something that I think people in that world are pretty accustomed to, but that's a quick,

3 (1h 21m 9s):
Easy thing to be accustomed to. That's your buddy leaves. He like he's cause he's like, we lost him. It's over. He's right there. He's right there. No, no, no. It's over. Leave him. You got to go. No, no, no, he's right there. I can touch him, but I'm going to reach down and touch in his head. He's gone, man. We got to let him go. He's breathing and he's right there. He's dead. You gotta let him go. Like why, what are you talking about? There's more than a hundred bodies laying on Mount Everest, but there's an open debate whether to remove them or leave them, be fucking leave them.

2 (1h 21m 40s):
Yeah. That's kind of what I, yeah, it's, it's actually super, super dangerous is the thing to remove bodies from whatever Mount Everest, like you're putting other people in danger to get them down.

3 (1h 21m 50s):
And what's the point. And also I think there's something about like the guy, the first guy to ever climb Everest is still up there. Right.

2 (1h 21m 60s):
Potentially it's kind of like a great mystery.

3 (1h 22m 3s):
Yeah, no there's

2 (1h 22m 7s):
So the, the mystery of whether or not Mallory and Irvine summited, Mount Everest is still like it's still out there

3 (1h 22m 15s):
Basically. No.

2 (1h 22m 16s):
So, okay. So the first, the first, I don't want to mess this up. The first ascent of Mount Everest happened in like the fifties, I think, but there's this argument that maybe it happened way back in like the 1920s, because there was an expedition to Everest, Georgia, Mallory and Sandy Irvine, like went out to go climb Mount Everest and they essentially disappeared. And it's still a question as to whether or not they summited.

3 (1h 22m 44s):
So this is someone who has to, is this people that have actually done a chamber day.

2 (1h 22m 49s):
So supposedly George Mallory, Jordan, Allie, and Sandy Irvine set out to climb Mount Everest in 1924. And they essentially disappeared. But nobody's sure if they summited and died on the way down or if they died on the way up and died on the way down, then the first people to summit. And so people are still looking, they actually found George Malory's body in the nineties. And as the story goes, he was meant to like leave a photo of his wife on the summit. So he carried a photo in his

3 (1h 23m 20s):
Possible ice ax injury, following a fall body found in 1999. Yeah.

2 (1h 23m 26s):
So people are still looking for Irvine. Cause apparently he had a camera.

3 (1h 23m 31s):
Oh wow. Yeah. So if you find the camp, do you think the footage would be fucked? I don't know. It's another question. See if there's a photo of Mallory's body, Jamie is kinda, it's kinda dark because you see as porcelain white, frozen skin exposed by the sun and he's face down. I believe, I think that's the photo I'm thinking of. And he's got these old timey clothes on too. So it's like, that's it. That's the photo right there. That is rough, man. That photo freaks me the fuck out. Every time I look at it, because that guy is rock solid, frozen. They're like, like a piece of stone and he will be there unless climate change melts his ass.

3 (1h 24m 15s):
Right. Yeah. I mean, that is fucking crazy. It's just it's look at us. Shoes have rotted off. Oh my God. See, this is the bones of his foot and everything that is hardcore.

2 (1h 24m 29s):
Yeah. It was a long time ago. Oh yeah. I mean the, the equipment they had back then was like, nothing. I know. What kind of clothes were they wearing? Just probably wore. Yeah, exactly.

3 (1h 24m 44s):
It's I think it's, there's a tradition to leaving the bodies there that I think there's something about people that are doing it that know they're risking their life. Like that's an affirmation, like, Hey, there's a guy that didn't make it. Like, what you're doing is crazy. This is really hard. So I think it's one of the rare moments in life where I think it's probably, there's some beauty to leaving a dead body on the spot.

2 (1h 25m 13s):
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And also it just like make sense. It seems fitting. Yeah.

3 (1h 25m 18s):
Yeah. Well, it's also, everybody's doing that. I mean, there's not other than the few douchebags that are just doing it for social credit. Like there's a lot of people that are just what they're doing is they decided to test themselves. And one of the most extreme ways possible, you're literally risking your life to reach the highest spot. We're not the highest, but one of the highest spots on earth, that's not the highest right. Everest, the highest. Yeah. But it's K2 the highest in terms of its relation to the ocean or sea level.

2 (1h 25m 50s):
I, no, that's, that's something different. It's different. K2 is the second highest, but K2 is considered significantly more technical and dangerous than Everest. Actually. There's a lot of mountains that are considered more difficult and dangerous than Mount Everest.

3 (1h 26m 7s):
And when the guy decides like, Hey, you know, I want to show off and be the man who climbs Mount Everest in my neighborhood, do you, do they have a requirement? Like how much they have to train for something like that? Because I know of rich people that are not really climbers that have climbed Everest.

2 (1h 26m 24s):
Yeah. So Everest is really, it's, it's a really interesting one because it's a very it's Everest is become very commercialized. So there's a lot of companies that guide Mount Everest, including Adrian's company Adrian's company's names, his company is called Alpenglow expeditions glow Alpenglow expeditions seem to be so psyched. Yes they do. Alpenglow expeditions can sign up. You can go to anywhere in the world basically and go climb. Yeah. So there's a bunch of companies that guide Mount Everest from both sides. There it is. There's the website. You back country. Ready? Yeah. We're getting ready for back country ski season and, and the guiding guiding a Mount Everest has become like very pretty lucrative.

2 (1h 27m 12s):
And there's guiding from the Chinese side and from the Nepal side. And both of those governments obviously benefit from that. And so from, from the Nepal side, it's a little bit less essentially it's just up to the companies who, who they take and who they don't take. So for Alpenglow, for instance, you do need previous requirements in order to climb Mount Everest, you have to have climbed another 8,000 meter peak and have gone through, you know, some climate, some rock climbing skills schools, but then other companies will just take anyone if you have the money and if you pay for it. And that's where a lot of the issues on Mount Everest arises because you have a lot of inexperienced people up there and you have a lot of inexperienced guiding going on and it's not regulated by the government or anything like that.

2 (1h 27m 59s):
Like a lot of mountains in the world are regulated by the country that they're in like Denali, for example. And so the companies have to abide by a certain set of regulations, but in Mount Everest, it's not really like that. So it's a little bit of a free for all. So that's why you hear about like the crowds and the lines and the dead bodies and the people dying. A lot of that is due to inexperience.

3 (1h 28m 23s):
Yeah. I can only imagine. Yeah. But experienced people die too.

2 (1h 28m 27s):
Experience people do die, but less. So like for, for example, like when Adrian goes to Eris, I do not worry about it. No, not at all. Not even a little bit. Wow. Because he uses oxygen. That's another thing like using oxygen versus not using oxygen the one time I did worry about him. He climbed Everest without oxygen, which is infinitely more difficult and more dangerous. And so yeah. Experienced people do die up there, but less, less. So

3 (1h 28m 54s):
Wim, Hoff climb, Mount Everest with sandals on and shorts that goes in the yeah. Guy. Yeah.

2 (1h 29m 3s):
I met him. Yeah. Did a little clinic with him. It's too easy. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 29m 9s):
Oh, he's a freak. He's a real freak, like a legitimate freak of nature and, and will like he's he has the, is does he have the world record for swimming under ice? Is it some crazy record for swimming, under ice? And there he is fucking sandals on with an ice pick. No lock Sufjan in shorts.

2 (1h 29m 32s):
Wait, is that really? Wow. Wow. That's crazy. I've never seen that photo

4 (1h 29m 36s):
Dude. He's a freak. Like he's a legit freak.

2 (1h 29m 41s):
Yeah. He's another one. That's got some sort of different, different wavelength of mental strength.

4 (1h 29m 48s):
Well, it is mental strength, but it's also breathing, breathing, breathing, exercises, breathing exercises are so strange because you think, well, I breathe. Everybody agrees, but you don't realize here it is. Hafez set the world record for the longest time and direct full body contact with ice. A total of 16 times, including one hour 42 minutes and 22 seconds on the 23rd of January, one hour, 44 minutes with that, this is a different record. He did something where he swam under ice. He swam in the ocean, they cut a hole in the ice and he swam under it to another place. Yeah. 57.5 meters. He said the Guinness world record for the farthest swim under ice.

4 (1h 30m 29s):
57 fucking meters under ice. Jesus that's long.

2 (1h 30m 34s):
Yeah. Have you ever done like those ice bath things? No,

4 (1h 30m 37s):
I've done cryotherapy, which is okay, but it's easy. It's three minutes, but those ice bath things,

2 (1h 30m 42s):
It takes your breath. It's really hard.

4 (1h 30m 44s):
I don't even like cold showers. When I lived in Boston. There's a guy at my TaeKwonDo gym. His name was Bob Caffarelli. Everybody was scared of him. Cause he was like a, an advanced black belt and he would shower in the winter in Boston, in cold water. So he'd get done training. Yeah. It's really good for you. But I didn't think it was good for you. I thought it was just for him. It was just like a mental strength thing. He would just get in the water. He lived at the CIM, like literally lived in the gym and taught out of the gym. Like he was super dedicated, but he would turn the cold water on and just get in that call. Everybody was like, what are you doing? We're all scared of him because his mind was so strong. Cause Boston is cold as shit. That water is barely not frozen.

4 (1h 31m 25s):
And so he's in there with like 33 degree water. Just having it pour all over his body after training. Yeah.

2 (1h 31m 31s):
That's pretty cool. I mean, I think that is, there is a test. There is something to learn there, like the mind over matter thing.

4 (1h 31m 36s):
Yeah. And also learning that it's actually beneficial for you and that you really do get something out of it that nor epinephrin gets jacked through the roof. When you get out of that, you feel amazing. Yeah. Like cryotherapy, like I had dr. Rhonda, Patrick, and I took her to a cryotherapy place in Woodland Hills back when we were in LA and she had never done it before, but she was aware of the hormetic. And so as a doctor, she was really interested in as a clinical research researchers interested in like what it felt like for her body. And she got out of there. She was like, this is amazing. She starts rattling off all the things that are actually happening to your body. I'm like, wow, what a good person to bring to a cryotherapy place? Like someone actually understands the physiological benefits is experiencing them and then relaying them to you as she's experiencing them.

4 (1h 32m 22s):
Wow. Yeah. That's pretty intense. Have you ever done those cryotherapy places? I've never been to one of those. The real good ones. I mean, they're all good for you. We have one here. We actually have a tank here, but it's one of these like below the neck though, the really good ones is the whole body. Your whole life. Even your yes. Everything. Because the ones below what they're using is liquid nitrogen. You can't breathe it in. If you breathe it in, you'll black out. And people have actually died doing that, like where they've had no supervision and then set it up themselves. And the, the ones that they do at cryo healthcare in Woodland Hills and in LA, those are all freezing the air. So they're using the liquid nitrogen to freeze the air and get the air down to 250 degrees below zero.

4 (1h 33m 4s):
And then they pump this freezing cold air in the room and you could breathe it in. So you wear a mask, a surgical mask you'd wear with COVID. You wear ear muffs. You wear mittens on your hands and you have to wear underwear and you wear socks and like rubber Crocs. That's actually a big one. Oh wow. Oh, that's interesting. I've never seen one that big. Is that out here? It may be. There's apparently one out here like that. That does a

2 (1h 33m 30s):
Full body. Does it feel like unbearably cold? Oh yeah. Oh yeah, yeah. Yes. You've done it. What does it feel? It's fucking cool. How many times have you done it? Three times. Maybe it's just your list. You can't wait for the song to end. Cause you know, you get the fuck out of there. Yeah.

4 (1h 33m 45s):
I have certain songs that I listened to like that I, I know I'm going to be freezing my ass off like three minutes, three minutes. Yeah. But I did. There's a guy who was working there that he was always trying to see how much I can endure because it is like, I think you can do more. I'm like, let's see like just a glutton for punishment sort of thing. So I got to three minutes and 40 seconds. That's the most I've ever done? No, it's not enjoyable. And I do it twice too. I do it. And then I take like 10 minutes off for my body to recharge. And then I go back in again. And supposedly that has, there's a significant benefit in doing it two times.

2 (1h 34m 23s):
Huh? Yeah. Do you do it like before training or after training or is it, I do it after training,

4 (1h 34m 29s):
But you really should put a large buffer just for the like there's, there's a great benefit in your body being heated up and your body's natural healing and recovering. And there's a lot of benefit. There's a lot of a debate rather as to how much time you should spend, like post-workout before you get in an ice bath. And that same applies, that same thought process applies to cryotherapy sauna. On the other hand, they think you should do right after training. So if you go like I'll, I'll train and then I'll get an a 185 degrees song, like right away. So I'll turn the on, on before workout. And then when I'm done with working out, I go right into the sauna and they think that that conveys an additional benefit.

4 (1h 35m 15s):
That's similar to continuing a workout. So increase in red blood cells and, and increase it almost ma almost mimics a low-level blood doping. So you get an increased benefit in your cardiovascular, your capability. And then you also get the heat shock proteins that reduce inflammation. So you feel really good so that you can do that right after training, but they don't recommend ice baths or cry out. They used to think you should do it right afterwards. And now they don't think so. They think she weighed a couple hours, especially strength training. Interesting. Yeah, but it's cool. It's Oh yeah. 250 degrees below zero.

4 (1h 35m 55s):
You can't believe I'll call it us. Like what is this? Like, call it in like an ice bath. Oh yeah. But not, I don't know if it's as uncomfortable.

2 (1h 36m 4s):
Yeah. Cause the ice bath thing was really cold with Wim Hoff. We had to get in it and like sing twinkle, twinkle, little star or something. And then we were like allowed to get out.

4 (1h 36m 15s):
That's hilarious. Did you do a seminar with him or something? Yeah.

2 (1h 36m 17s):
It was like the North face has these. They call them athletes, summits. And so we all get together for a few days and do activities and like team building stuff. And Wim Hoff came to one of them and he like did the whole, this whole seminar. And we had these kiddie pools with ice in them and we all had to get in and sing twinkle, twinkle little star.

4 (1h 36m 36s):
Well, there's a thing that you can get now that we're going to get here for the studio. That is, it's an ice bath, but it's, you don't have to add ice to it. It's a machine. And the machine chills the water right below, right. To the point where it would freeze. And so you get to ride about 33 34 degrees, and then you climb in this re Duke <inaudible> cold water. And everybody says that that's a better option because then you don't have to go to the gas station and buy a bunch of bags of ice every time you do it. Yeah. That makes sense. Because my friends would have like just a, a tub and they just throw it. Like every time we do that, you gotta go to the gas station or wherever you get your ice from. Yup. Buy a ton of ice.

4 (1h 37m 17s):
Do you do any kind of like, do you wear like NormaTec boots or anything like that? You haven't NormaTec boots. What are those? Those are those things that lug around runners, but on compression, Jamie, you just did it. Right. It's pretty dope, right? Yeah. I don't do that. No, I have them. I need to use them. They send them to me. I got to put them on. But Jim, you really liked it, right? Yeah. How long did you wear it?

7 (1h 37m 40s):
It recommends the do, what is it like 20 to 60 minutes? I think I just did 30. Just this, just to try it, but, and then I did have another 45 minute session the next day.

4 (1h 37m 48s):
Did you feel better when you got out of them? Like, what does it feel like?

7 (1h 37m 52s):
I just, I love the feeling of it. Like a leg massage. I, if someone massage my leg all day long, I'd pay an ungodly amount of money probably for it all day long. I think I have restless leg syndrome, which may or may not be accurate or I I've looked up how I have it or what,

3 (1h 38m 6s):
What is that? What is Greg know? Have you, you know,

2 (1h 38m 10s):
I've heard of it, but the feeling of it, it's funny.

3 (1h 38m 12s):
I just said restless leg syndrome, which is even more ridiculous. But what did, how did it

7 (1h 38m 16s):
Just the feeling of it bothers the shit. It's really hard to explain. That's why somebody, I, I think people don't think it's real because it's like, I just can't sit still. I can keep my legs still. I feel like I have to kick them or move still right now. Right now. It's not bothering me. But like sometimes at night, if I'll be sitting and try to watch TV, I can't keep my leg comfortable. Is that why you like running? I thought running helped it. Which the most recent time I did it, I ran and I, I, it bothered me at night and I was like, well, it doesn't fix it, but that's what it seems like. It is. It's like, you're not moving enough during the day you have some buildup and that's what it is. But I don't think that's what it is. And there's gotta be studies that people have looked into that. But either way, have you ever tried body weight squats?

7 (1h 38m 56s):
Oh, yep. There's no, it doesn't do it. There is not a thing I have found to fix this and I I've had it since I was like 12 and I told my dad and he's like, shut up. You don't have that. This is like commercials out, call it, pop up on TV, some pills for it or something. And I'm like, dad, can we try the thing? And I was like, no, you're fine. Go get your kid. I mean, idiot. These things that NormaTec boots, I've Al I've seen them. Like, that's going to be the most amazing fix for that feeling. It was. I mean, I'm not saying like, I'm a doctor, everyone should get them. But

3 (1h 39m 27s):
After you did it, did it alleviate that feeling? Yeah.

7 (1h 39m 29s):
Yeah. Yeah. And every time I'm going to have it for now on, I was like time to put the boots on and lay down whatever, and I'll be probably fine.

3 (1h 39m 34s):
And what's dope is you can put the boots on and just watch TV. Right?

7 (1h 39m 39s):
It's not that loud. The machine is not loud. It's battery powered things. You can probably, I thought I had to leave it in the wall. It's not, you can take it anywhere.

3 (1h 39m 45s):
So he never messed with any of that. No, no. We get some sent to you. Yeah. Some sent to you, but you use a lacrosse ball. I love that lacrosse ball. It's so phenomenal. Yeah. Travel with it. Love them. And you can really dig in with those suckers. Especially if you got a good hardwood floor, you can really lay on your back. And just

2 (1h 40m 5s):
The one that gets me is like the hip flexor to lay on that. Yeah. That's super painful.

3 (1h 40m 12s):
How flexibility has got to be very important. You said you were really flexible because you're a gymnast, right? Yeah. And you don't have a routine where you like a daily stretch routine.

2 (1h 40m 22s):
Now I, I do stretch. I have like one of those yoga glow membership things and I'll like, I have a yoga glow is like a, a website that you go to and it's like, you can watch a video of like a yoga class basically. And I'm really bad at going to yoga classes. I actually don't like, I'll go to the climbing gym, but I don't like going to any other type of gym. I don't know why I would just like to do it alone. Yeah. I'm like very much into doing it alone. Like I don't like to go lift weights in front of people. I'm just like a little bit, I guess, shy about stuff like that. So I just do it in my home. I have like weights and I have, I do yoga by myself in front of the screen, but I also don't like going to classes because they're just too long.

2 (1h 41m 7s):
And I don't think I have the attention span sometimes for a full class. So in order to get myself to do it, I'll log into this website and I'll be like, I'm going to do 15 minutes of hip stretches and I'll just do that. And that's how I get myself to do it. Cause otherwise I just, I'm just not good at sticking with it.

4 (1h 41m 24s):
Grades for a person who went all the way up a mountain in a day, I can stick with certain things. Well, you seem very self motivated. Obviously if you're doing all your training yourself and making your routines yourself. So is that like a thing where you don't want other people motivating you or other people like guiding the exercise because then you're not relying on intuition. You're relying on someone to tell you what to do.

2 (1h 41m 47s):
No, I actually love, I love training with other people in climbing with other people, especially other women. And it's just so happens that like a lot of like, they don't live in the same hometown as me and so

4 (1h 41m 59s):
Training with other people in being led in a class.

2 (1h 42m 3s):
Totally. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 42m 4s):
But you're weightlifting when you do it, you just,

2 (1h 42m 7s):
I mean, I don't weight lift that much. I do like opposition stuff. Like, you know, like as a climber, you're like constantly pulling all the time. And so I'll do like, like light weightlifting for like my shoulders to like opposition stuff. I don't actually weight lift that much. Would it be, what does that mean though? But like, you know, like a lift of a dumbbell and just like lift him up like this eyes wise and teas. Oh yeah. I do those. Yeah. I do eyes wise and teas and I do them on the TRX

4 (1h 42m 34s):
To tease, explaining to people. What do you mean

2 (1h 42m 36s):
It's when you basically make it, you make an I a Y or T with your arms straight up, straight up. And then the Y and then the T and it's supposed to, it's supposed to help with like strengthen your shoulders and stuff. Like the little stabilizer muscles, because I just get nagging. Like my shoulders constantly feels like it's on the verge of getting injured and it never has.

4 (1h 42m 57s):
Well, it's kind of amazing. You think about what you're doing. It's so much shoulder. Yeah.

2 (1h 43m 1s):
Well, and you're always putting them in like really compromising positions. It's like, one of the common injury for climbers is a shoulder injury.

4 (1h 43m 9s):
It is like, w what, what, what does a climber do to strengthen the shoulders? A lot of bandwidth

2 (1h 43m 15s):
Band work. I was just going to say I, so I travel with like, in my climbing pack, before I climb, I'll like pull out the band and do like a bunch of band exercises. And

4 (1h 43m 24s):
You ever seen, there's a, there's these bands that are called a crossover symmetry. That's what it's called. And it comes with like a workout, like a, a chart that shows all the different various shoulder workouts. But they, you, you, you do them. So like, if it's on a, a door or a wall, like you would put one on one side of the doorway, one on the other side. So they cross this way. So you do your eyes wise and T's with that. You do. I do like these where I pull back and then lift up. There's all these, but it's really cool because it has a chart that comes with it that shows all the various exercises and what it targets.

4 (1h 44m 8s):
And if you just make your way down, it's specifically designed to strengthen shoulders. That sounds good. Yeah, there it is right there. That's I bought it from a rogue, but it's really cool too, because it has a bunch of different tension bands. Like they go up to real, like, I've mostly used like a 25 pound one, but they go up high, like 40, 50, and the ridiculously stiff to, to move. But if you can like force yourself, that's how I have it set up. I haven't set it up on a, on a sore annex rack, but if you can force yourself to go through those routines that you'll see on the chart, just make your way down the hole.

4 (1h 44m 52s):
It's a phenomenal shoulder workout. Oh, that's pretty cool. Yeah. Yeah. And that's, I guess that's the hook for like

2 (1h 44m 59s):
A doorway travel with it. Yeah.

4 (1h 45m 1s):
It's really dope. I love it. And it's, and it's simple. Like they have it all set up, so you just follow these routines and it shows you what part of your back and shoulders that it's targeting. And I've, I noticed a pretty significant alleviation of shoulder instability and weakness from it. Yeah.

2 (1h 45m 20s):
That's, that's what I need. Yeah. Because I

4 (1h 45m 21s):
Got to imagine, like, that would, when I was asking you what it's like being 30 day shoulder fixed. There you go. What I was asking about being a professional athlete, I mean, obviously I know a lot of professional athletes from working in the UFC, but the instability of, or the, in the science ability, but the uncertainty of making a living with your own tissue and bone, I mean, this is your career is reliant upon you not being injured in a sport that's incredibly injury prone, right? Yeah.

2 (1h 45m 59s):
Yeah. I think, I think it is. And I think as I get older, like I'm going to have to be a lot smarter about how I train and, and, and it, there is a lot of uncertainty. Like I remember when I was younger in my head, I, you know, that's where I was going to go be a lawyer, you know? And then also I was like, Oh, well, once I, you know, once I decided to have a kid, like, then I'll just be, I might just be done, you know? But I think that the way that the job of professional athlete has sort of like morphed into so much more than just performing at your sport, if that makes sense. Like, you know, if you're, if you're really actively engaged in social media and if you're a good storyteller and if you're a good speaker, there's a lot of other avenues you can take, for instance, like if you do get injured, it's also right.

2 (1h 46m 51s):
And then with climbing, there's a lot of, you know, it doesn't just stop it, like the Olympics, for example, I can, I can do what I'm doing now. I can go climb big mountains. There's a lot of other ways to be a climber. And so I think it, it elongates that career in some way, in addition to the fact that we can essentially become our own brand.

3 (1h 47m 15s):
That makes sense. Right. So you can, you, you can do all kinds of things with that. Right. Do you have any aspirations to expand your brain? I hate that term. I know it's like of, I love what you've done with your brain. It's like such an LA thing. Yeah,

2 (1h 47m 28s):
It is. You're right. It totally is. But I don't know what else to say it. I mean, it's, I, I just have like a glorified marketing job is what I is, what I have. That's what I do, but it's also

3 (1h 47m 41s):
Sorta yeah. But you've earned that position. It's not marketing. It's like, you're, you've, you've done things that are pretty extraordinary. That's not, it's not as simple as just a glorified model.

2 (1h 47m 52s):
It's true. It's true. But I guess that's the imposter syndrome speaking. Yeah. And I think I do, I have aspirations to like tell my story. I think in an authentic way that people are inspired by and that people can relate to.

3 (1h 48m 9s):
So are you thinking about writing a book or a documentary

2 (1h 48m 13s):
Love to write a book someday? There is going to be a movie coming out about my whole like process on El cap and sort of like my, my journey as a climber, I guess in the spring, who's putting that together. My friend, John Glassberg who owns a company called louder than 11. He's the one who's been with me the whole time he filmed he's been filming me ever since I started climbing in Yosemite. And he was there the day that I did it, I did this.

3 (1h 48m 38s):
And he was also the day you fell and got a concussion. Oh,

2 (1h 48m 41s):
It was all of it. Oh, wow. Yeah. He's got, he's got everything from the beginning. God, that's an editing job, huh? Yeah, we actually, Adrian and I, he came to our house a few, a few weeks ago and like showed us just like the storyline. And it's just like four hours of like my life leading up to that moment. So there definitely is a weird to you to see. That was pretty weird because he got all this footage. He like went to my parents' house and got all this old footage from my dad, you know, like from the cassette tapes and just, I don't know what they call when they like digitize it all. And yeah. So I was watching like all this stuff from when I was a baby to like, when I, my dad built a climbing wall in my garage and surprise me with it, which I completely forgot that even happened.

2 (1h 49m 27s):
Wow. And he just like showed it to me. And I was like, Oh my gosh, this is it. It was trippy for sure. That's wild. Yeah.

3 (1h 49m 33s):
So is he going to do that and try to sell it to Netflix or something?

2 (1h 49m 37s):
I mean, yeah. I think that's, I think that's like an idea at this point. It's like his first documentary, you know, it's kind of like his, his, like his, his baby, this at this point, he's like pretty involved, pretty invested in it. So we'll see where it goes to see dirtbag. Then I know,

3 (1h 49m 54s):
I can't believe you have a watch now,

2 (1h 49m 56s):
Now that you, now that I've, I've seen like the cover of the film, I've totally heard of it. I know, I know what you're talking about.

3 (1h 50m 3s):
Sad story in a way, in a lot of ways, because the guys, like the people that were around him sort of admired him at the same time, pitied him. It was like, there was cause he, you know, he would eat like old food and you know, he didn't, he never had any money and he's always just laying around and it's weird. It's a, it's a weird, but also again, this dedication to this one, singular.

2 (1h 50m 33s):
Yeah. You know, and that's kind of like a, that's kind of how the history of climbing in Yosemite began is with like the dirt bags, the people who went there and all they did was that's all they wanted to do was climb. And so they would just like go scrounge for food at the cafeteria and like sleep out in the forest and just go climbing and do whatever they could to climb. That's such a weird thing. Yeah.

3 (1h 50m 55s):
For the average person that wants to build in their life and wants security and wants a 401k plan and wants, you know, a mortgage and all, all the things that the trappings of modern culture to see someone who's so completely rebellious that they literally want to sleep in the forest and climb mountains.

2 (1h 51m 13s):
Yeah. In a way I, you know, that's what made them happy. They like figured out what made them happy.

3 (1h 51m 17s):
He's got a big smile thinking about that. Yeah. Cause that's,

2 (1h 51m 22s):
Yeah. I mean, I'm thinking about it in terms of like how far climbing has come as well. You know, and I think a lot of those, those people from back in the day, they were just like, they saw themselves as like outcasts of society in a way. And I think you just, as with everything, everything changes. Right. And like with the evolution of climbing, like you now have people like me who are like making a living climbing and you know, I do have a mortgage and I'm just like making it work, you know? And in a way I often wonder if those people like, look at me and sort of like, feel like I've like sold out or like, I'm not like core, you know, if that makes sense, because you have sponsors because I've like, I've, I've made it work.

2 (1h 52m 2s):
And I've like worked the system again, imposter syndrome, but I've like worked the system to, to get to a point where I'm like actually making a living and, and managing, you know, and it's just an interesting, it's an interesting thought. There's like a little bit of like, I dunno, I feel a little bit sensitive to it. Like, I'm like, Oh no, am I not like just staying asleep in the forest enough day?

3 (1h 52m 26s):
It though, I did struggle with eating fucking wood chips. Yeah. Yeah. I get it. I would imagine like any industry it's filled with people who try to sort of malign and misrepresent who other people are and they get jealous and get petty.

2 (1h 52m 44s):
Yeah. I mean, I think in, I think it's mostly like social media. Like the one thing I learned through all of this the last few weeks were a little bit of a whirlwind because just because this whole thing went a little bit bigger than I thought it would. So yeah. I learned to like, not ever log into Twitter, Twitter is like the worst one for some reason.

3 (1h 53m 7s):
Yeah. Because it's all just opinions, at least with Instagram it's, you know, photographs and then people comment on the photographs, but it just seems to be the, the tone of Instagram seems to be markedly more

2 (1h 53m 23s):
Positive. Yeah. That's what I've realized. And that's mainly, that's the one I use the most is Instagram, but I logged into Twitter for the first time in like three years or something. And I was just like, Oh no, I got to get out.

3 (1h 53m 36s):
Yeah. You can't read it. It's just, there's so many people there that are just filled with hate.

2 (1h 53m 41s):
But at the same time, I mean, I guess it's, it's a good way to get news. I, I suppose. Yeah.

3 (1h 53m 45s):
It's a good way to get news. Yeah. It's not a good way to read anything about you though. The mentions you got to stay out of that one. No, I learned that there should be a way to make that invisible. Yeah. Make that little thing invisible. Yeah. Yeah. I don't even like, cause like it's a little like a haunted house. Like you open the door, it's all these crazy people that are just angry. And there's a thing also where it's almost like having a box of rocks next to a bunch of windows. It's like, people just want to throw a rock, like fuck Emily, that bitch, you know, like there's people that just are like that. There's some people that, and they're at work and they're bored or they're angry

2 (1h 54m 26s):
To be heard. I think in a lot of ways. Well,

3 (1h 54m 29s):
Yeah, there's a lot of that.

2 (1h 54m 31s):
That's I mean, that's what we all want in a way, I guess, seen and heard until you are. Yeah. Until you are. And then you're like, okay, this is not what I wanted and I'm going to go hide.

3 (1h 54m 44s):
Well, that is the peril of trying to be in the public eye. Right. Like you're, you're making an attempt at garnering an enormous and an unusual amount of attention.

2 (1h 54m 58s):
Yeah, for sure. Yeah. It's and it's, it's scary, honestly. Like it's almost scarier than like doing what I did it's or, or climbing in a way. Cause it's it. I mean, I'm just, I'm like a sensitive person, I think. And so throughout all of this, I've had to just learn to be like, well, little bit tougher.

3 (1h 55m 20s):
It doesn't change you. Right. It's like, that's the danger that you'd be more averse to risk or you would be somehow or another, you would change. Like, you know, we were talking before the show about Hollywood, like moving out here has made me realize how tainted the entire city is by the desire that people have to be

4 (1h 55m 45s):
Chosen, to be on things, be chosen to be on a television show or chosen to be in a movie. And so you become what people want you to be. You tend to be what people are looking for. You shape your opinions and your look and your dress to what you think is going to be more likely to get you success in that world. And that is a mind virus and infects the entire city that the problem with any kind of interaction with people on social media is that you can kind of change how you behave so that you like mitigate the amount of hate you get, or you mitigate the amount of jealousy or mitigate the amount of pettiness and you can, it can sort of, it can fuck up your own journey, you know, like your own there's there's pros and cons.

4 (1h 56m 38s):
Like don't get me wrong. There's, there's definitely some pros in reading criticism. And because you can apply it to yourself and learn whether it's accurate and also realize like, Oh, this is like a person that's like really sad and they're trying to hurt all these other people. So you can sort of take pity on them. And it gives you a better understanding of just human psychology in general, but it can also, it can also change the way you express yourself. Like you, you could be more guarded for sure. And that, that, that can be a problem too, because then you, you're not as free. And ultimately we all want to be free to express ourselves. We all want to be free to show who we really are.

4 (1h 57m 19s):
And I think the more you intertwine who you are with other people's ideas and other people's expectations and sort of try to be everything for every person, you kind of water who you are down.

2 (1h 57m 37s):
Yeah. I would agree with that. I mean, I think, yeah, and the more people, the more people have eyes on you, the more they're going to have their opinions about who you are or who you are,

4 (1h 57m 47s):
Was also people misrepresenting what you did too.

2 (1h 57m 51s):
Exactly. Which was, which was hard for me because so essentially, yeah, so essentially one news article, I think it was like, I don't know how it happened, but essentially like the domino effect of like someone changed the wording of the, of what I did and said that I was the first woman to free climb El cap in a day, which is a gross misunderstanding because the first person to free climb El cap in a day was a woman and her name is Lynn Hill and she did it in 1994. And in climbing that is like one of the most historic groundbreaking achievements in climbing's history. Like Lynn Hill is an absolute legend that everyone knows who she is.

2 (1h 58m 31s):
And so, you know, it, it, in a way, like I got accused of like erasing history by like claiming to be the first woman. No, I D I didn't do anything, but I did. I tried really hard to correct it, but for me it was, it was a little bit mortifying because I, I, I grew up in the same town as Lynn, like I was brought it, I knew her like growing up and she was an absolute hero of mine. And I knew of her achievement as like, this was, there's not that many sporting achievements that are that groundbreaking and not pioneering that are like owned by a woman. Like she did this before any human thought it was possible. And, and for me, like coming into climbing as a ten-year-old, I recognize that immediately and saw climbing as a space for women in a space where women could really Excel.

2 (1h 59m 20s):
And so I, you know, free climb, managing to free climb. El cap in a day for me was personally very important, but it also, I just felt so much pride because like, I got to kind of do something that Lynn did 26 years ago. That's so rad. And then all of these stories came out saying that I was the first woman. So it was just kind of me being like, Oh, no, like I didn't, I didn't do that. I, I didn't, I don't want it to be this way. And thankfully I like know her and I got to call her and be like, I'm so sorry. And she didn't really care at all, obviously.

3 (1h 59m 50s):
Well, we should be really clear. It's nothing you said, it's the way the editors decided to phrase it.

2 (1h 59m 57s):
And I think it's just like, yeah, it's just the way that media works. Sometimes. Like they basically changed the heading of like that. I was the first woman to free climb golden gate.

3 (2h 0m 6s):
They just did a shitty job of researching it. Yeah. And so you were the first woman to free climb golden gate in a day, in a day, which is a really difficult path.

2 (2h 0m 18s):
It's a difficult path, Lynn free climb to the nose, which is different route. And then free climbing El cap in a day is just in a day is the important part, because it's, it's an achievement that like, I think only maybe like 25 people have done in history and only four women. And it's something it's like the epitome of like big wall free climbing.

3 (2h 0m 41s):
So the hate that you got was unfortunate and misguided, like it's just, but people do that when someone achieves something remarkable. And if there's any flaw in the way it's being represented, they're like, Oh, this girl, she's a racing history. She's a fraud. She's a, this she's like that, but you didn't do anything. All you did is just do what you did. You climb them. Yeah.

2 (2h 1m 7s):
Yeah. And to be clear, like, I wasn't that bummed about it, but I was sort of like, Oh, okay. This is how it goes. Like, I'm getting a lot of attention and I'm going to have to deal with a little bit of like negativity, because that's just how the world works.

3 (2h 1m 18s):
Has that been cleared up of people kind of understanding that this wasn't you,

2 (2h 1m 22s):
I think people have cleared that up for sure. I mean, there's definitely a little bit of like, Oh, you should have been more on top of things, but you know, that's just people not understanding how this stuff works.

3 (2h 1m 32s):
You don't even know how many articles are being written about you. That's the problem is so many articles viral. Yeah. I put it up on my Instagram and when I did, I saw at least 10 different articles about it. Yeah. I was trying to see like, what was right and what was wrong. And it's just one of those things where someone does something, something extraordinary and it becomes clickbait. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So that was the big lesson about social media and hate for you.

2 (2h 2m 0s):
Yeah. And I think, you know, I don't think it's really changed much. It's definitely made me feel. I honestly, like, I feel like a little bit of responsibility in a way. Like, I feel like I represent climbing to a broader audience right now, especially right now. And so like, I want to do a good job of that and I want to present it in like an authentic and honest way, you know? But at the same time, like, I'm pretty aware that there's always going to be haters and like, that's just life. That's how it goes. Don't engage. Don't read the comments.

3 (2h 2m 32s):
Don't don't, don't read the comments and definitely don't respond to them. Yeah. Does North face or any of these other companies that you work with, do they have like social media coaching or anything? Do they do that?

2 (2h 2m 46s):
Yeah, we do some social media coaching. Like at those athletes summits I was referring to and you know, now, but that was back in the day now, like a few years ago now I just feel like everyone is so accustomed to social media. Everyone knows how to like, how to work it. The one thing that they're starting to get into that I'm still not quite yet there yet. I feel like I'm a little old for it is tic talk. Like I just,

3 (2h 3m 11s):
My 12 year old you met her, right? She's a tick.

2 (2h 3m 14s):
Yeah. The dancing dancing.

3 (2h 3m 17s):
They can't help themselves. I just don't like waiting in line

2 (2h 3m 21s):
At Starbucks. I, I still don't. I can't, it's just one too many things. I think

3 (2h 3m 27s):
You don't need it. It's odd. But it's interesting. You know, I think it's interesting when things become viral, I'm always fascinated by when something becomes like, some things are just so boring to me yet they become viral. I don't understand that. Some things are just like the guy on the skateboard, drinking, cranberry juice, singing along the Fleetwood Mac, like so simple that resonates with people and the guy becomes,

2 (2h 3m 50s):
Yeah. I mean, I think that was, I feel like that was just like a moment. He was, it was a moment in time that like people were really looking for something positive. It was like, so lighthearted people love that song just went over really well. Right.

3 (2h 4m 6s):
But that to me is so fascinating that, of all the things that people are doing online, all over the world, that this guy just chilling on a skateboard with a bottle of cranberry juice,

2 (2h 4m 18s):
I thought it was great. I was, I was like, Oh, it just made me smile. You know? So you send it to your friend. It makes them smile. Yeah.

3 (2h 4m 24s):
I mean, I don't know how many millions of people saw it though. It's crazy. Yeah. That's fascinating to me. Like what, what pops, what catches people's attention? What goes viral?

2 (2h 4m 35s):
I think it's just like a combination of like where we are as, as a society. Like what we're kind of like craving. And if someone like provides that without knowing it,

3 (2h 4m 44s):
Of course. Cause it was like right at the elections and everyone was like fine.

2 (2h 4m 49s):
Yeah. And I, I feel like that happened a little bit with my story too. Like I had climbed the day after the election, everyone was like, that's so crazy. You call him the day after the election. Like, what was that like? And I was like, well, I just didn't have to doom scroll all day. Like I didn't want to look at my phone. What are you talking about? Like,

3 (2h 5m 7s):
Girl, that is the way to do it. Yeah. Everyone should have gone hiking. Just do something. Get out of the house. Yeah. Do people ask your opinions on politics and do you sort of like avoid answering those questions? Cause there's no winner. No. There's like, no, like, you know, you're going to piss somebody off.

2 (2h 5m 25s):
Totally. Yes. Yes they do. And I do, I do share my opinions about politics and I do try to do it in like a very diplomatic way. That's not, you know, I, I do have, I have like, I have a political stand on things. I care about the environment. I care about climate change. Like I'm a part of an organization called protect our winters. Like, you know, I that's like one of my causes that I care about. And so I'm pretty vocal,

3 (2h 5m 51s):
Especially because you're really in the skiing. I love skiing when there's no skiing, everything gets warm.

2 (2h 5m 57s):
Exactly. You know, and that's sort of like our Avenue for talking to people, you know, like if you love the outdoors, you should care about the environment and you know, and so people do. I, but I'm also, I'm one of those people that I really, and Adrian and I talk about this all the time. Like we try to listen to all the different sides and we try to have, I think that one of our problems is like being so divided and not being able to understand one another. And that's the part that worries me the most is like the hatred that we all have for the other side and that us versus them type of thing. And the inability to understand each other is, is hard.

2 (2h 6m 40s):
Even want to understand each other. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

3 (2h 6m 42s):
To just label each other, the other side as the enemy, no matter what. And the weird thing to me is I know people personally that used to be like heavy duty left wing, and they were argue like vehemently and passionately against the right wing. And then they switched over and then they're arguing V passionately against the left. And I'm like, you just might be a fucking complainant fair. There's good and bad. And all people in all ideas and in all ideologies and in all political bends. But what gets me, is that what you talked about that the climate and the environment could in any way be political.

3 (2h 7m 29s):
That is so bizarre to me that we would have a division left or right. That wouldn't or would the environment like God, isn't that like part of being a fucking human living on a planet, like don't you want the rivers to be clean? How has that political, how is it political to, to not want the oceans to be filled with plastic? How is it political to not be concerned about the, the, the death of animals because of oil spills? Like what is political about that? That seems so nuts. That seems like something like universally as a human, we should say, Hey, first take care of the earth. This is the only one we have.

3 (2h 8m 9s):
This is where we live. Let's abandon left and right. And all this nonsense, independent, libertarian stop earth, take care of earth.

2 (2h 8m 20s):
Yeah. And I mean, I think a lot of it, obviously a lot of it has to do with money. A lot of it has to do with where we get our energy from and who's in charge there. And I think, I think one of the biggest things, I think a lot of people don't appreciate the earth is what I'm saying. Like, I think a lot of people don't have the opportunity to go outside and go on a hike and, and, and to appreciate the world in the same, in the same way that I've been able to, to do so, or you have. So I think, you know, one of the important things is to, is to show people what, like nature has to offer, like what being outside has to offer, like the outdoors, how much it can contribute to and benefit your life.

2 (2h 9m 4s):
And then once you show people that, then they'll start to care about it because if they don't get to experience it and they go, they don't care about it. And I think there are a lot of people out there that are pretty isolated from the outdoor experience. You know, they live in inner cities. They don't have access to the outdoors in the same way that we do. They choose to just play video games in their, in their spare time, whatever that may be, I think. And that's one of my like goals in climbing, I guess, is to make it more accessible to people, let them experience it, experience what it does. And then they'll start to care about the places that are outdoors and they'll want to protect them.

3 (2h 9m 44s):
That's a great desire to educate people. I think it's Titanic really bizarre that we have a term that we call outdoors.

2 (2h 9m 55s):
What do you mean? It's strange

3 (2h 9m 58s):
That we have a thing like outdoors it's outdoors. Indoors is normal outdoors. It's the earth. It's it's nature. But in our mind, we're like, Oh, outdoors, like, what do you mean out? They'll know it's nature. The earth. Like we're so accustomed to being inside a building that we think of everything outside of buildings as outdoors. Yeah. Like it's a weird term. Indoors should be what's bizarre.

2 (2h 10m 27s):
Yeah. Agreed. And outdoors is seen as like this really extreme. I think we should, we need to kind of like get away, like the idea that outdoors is like so extreme. And it's like for people who like, it's weird, I do like going outside is something that's super normal and we should all be doing it more.

3 (2h 10m 45s):
It should be. Yeah. You do do it a lot. And it's amazing. And it's great. But the, the expression outdoors is a weird expression. Yeah. I agree. It's just like, it's assuming that everyone is constantly protected by a house and a shelter. And when you go outside of the shelter, like, Oh my goodness, you're outdoors. You're out there right now. That is the real life. That is the real earth. That's the real nature. This is where everything else lives except us. And we're like going outdoors. It's a strict, Oh, I love the outdoors. I'll get love. You mean you love nature. No. The outdoors nature, you mean woods and wilderness.

3 (2h 11m 27s):
That's what you mean. Well, I, to call it outdoors, it's a strange, right. It's a very strange

2 (2h 11m 33s):
Expression. It is weird.

3 (2h 11m 34s):
It's one of those strange things that you just get accustomed to and you forget how bizarre it is until someone brings it up. It's like one of the things, if you've got high, you think about it. And you're like, what, what a weird expression. It's a strange expression. That's commonplace.

2 (2h 11m 48s):
Yeah. I could see that. Yeah.

3 (2h 11m 51s):
It's, that's actually nature. That's what everything is supposed to be living in. Everything's supposed to be in the woods and the mountains and the wilderness and lakes and streams and the ocean. And we call it outdoors.

2 (2h 12m 3s):
Cause I think most, a lot of people do just spend their time inside. You know, they go from their home to their work. Maybe not even go to their work anymore. They're just at home.

3 (2h 12m 11s):
Yeah. Well I, and I think that's one of the reasons why people are so depressed. I think it's, I don't think it's a natural environment for any biological creature and, and not for us, even though we've created these environments and we've, we've made them really cool and made some nice houses and you know, great big TVs and the cool shit to do inside the house. I don't think it resonates with our actual biology. I think our bodies have evolved over millions of years to be experiencing all sorts of things that are a part of the wilderness nature, the sun and the wind and trees and visual, just these visual cues, seeing mountains. There's something about like beautiful, like landscapes in nature that make you feel really good, right?

3 (2h 12m 59s):
Like if you, if you're like on a trail and you, you, you crest a Hill and you see mountains and a Lake be like in the sun, the rays of the sun are hitting the trees and it's all green and lush and you see birds flying around. You're like, wow, it makes, it's like a drug. Like it hits you because your body evolved human beings evolved to experience these things. And when you see these beautiful, gorgeous lush environments, generally speaking, it means like, like habitat where animals live and where you can find food and where there's going to be fresh, clean water. That's that Lake. And all those things is like these cues that are biologically embedded in our DNA.

2 (2h 13m 46s):
Yeah. Agreed. That's why we should care about that stuff.

3 (2h 13m 48s):
Yes. But the fact that that's political is we're nuts. We're a crazy species. We're a crazy animal. Yeah. That, that is a, that's odd to go there to those places is rare, but that's how we evolved. We're supposed to be in those places. Like that's, I really firmly believe it's one of the reasons why people are so detached and they feel so disconnected and so unhappy. Yeah. Just get, if you're in a fucking subway and they take the subway to a, a building and they sit in front of a cubicle, staring at a screen, and then you get in the subway and you head home. And we were in another building and you're never around trees. You're never around a river. You're never around Eagles.

3 (2h 14m 29s):
And you never see a deer walking by. You never see those things. Like, I just think your body's deprived of it the same way you would get scurvy if you don't get vitamin C.

2 (2h 14m 40s):
Yeah. But so what, so what do you, what do you think the solution is outside? But what if you live in an inner city, like in a park. Exactly. And we need more spaces like that.

3 (2h 14m 53s):
Wim Hoff says we should literally hug trees. He's like, you should hug. I fucking tree man. Say it about, he's like, it's good for you. You really, you need it. You really do like people that go to central park, you can see like, if you go to New York city, when you see them in central park, they're fucking relaxed. Like, they're like, Oh, like you just sit there and it's trees and grass. And is there's at least some life, some actual natural life.

2 (2h 15m 21s):
Yeah. Yeah. I think, and also I think that's one of the things that's come out of. COVID a little bit, I think people are actually going outdoors more, not in LA, not LA. You go to the fucking park. You're crazy. I mean, I've noticed the climbing areas and the trails and everything where I live in Tahoe. It's so busy because people have gotten out of the city and they're coming up and they're getting outside and they're going hiking. And like, just even friends who own like gear shops, they say that they're actually doing really well because people are buying bikes and buying hiking shoes and getting outside because they're not in school. They're not in work. They're not working. There's nothing else to do. So that's maybe like one tiny little silver lining to everything is people are discovering it.

3 (2h 16m 2s):
Well, it's like you were saying that people do adapt. Like you're saying about people sleeping on the side of cliffs. People are very malleable. They do adapt. And it sucks that people are going through all this. But the good thing about it is that there are people that are becoming more active. There are people that, I mean, it's not everybody. And unfortunately, some people can't do this, but a lot of people are getting in shape. A lot of people are, even though they can't go to a gym, they've gone on YouTube and looked body weight exercises

4 (2h 16m 31s):
And started a routine and lost weight and got fitter and started. You mean there's a ton of yoga videos. You can just get off YouTube and they're free and you can just, you don't need any money. You just need a phone or an internet connection. And you've got something to do and, you know, bike shops, like I know a bike shop that's near me. That was saying that they literally have a hard time keeping bikes.

2 (2h 16m 55s):
Yeah. That's what, yeah. That's what we were hearing in our town as well. That's cool. Yeah. It's really cool. I think it's awesome.

4 (2h 17m 0s):
Yeah. More people out there doing stuff. Yeah. I think it's great. I hope that people also realize that they've been, you know, for a lot of people they've been dedicated themselves to something that can be taken away from them. And that to, to just recognize that this whole experience that we have on this planet is very temporary. And so many people are chasing material things and chasing a position in the company. And then the company goes away and then you realize like, Oh, well this was all fragile. And I thought it was permanent. And it's, it gives you an opportunity, even though it sucks. It does give you an opportunity to sort of readdress how you interface with life and change.

4 (2h 17m 42s):
What's important to you and change where your priorities are and change just maybe your path forward and recognize that, Hey, this can happen again. And maybe I should be more prepared, but also maybe I should reassess what I'm doing with my life. Yeah.

2 (2h 17m 57s):
What's important to you where your priorities are.

4 (2h 18m 1s):
Do you anticipate doing this until you're like, like the dirt bad guy? Yeah. You can't climb anymore.

2 (2h 18m 7s):
Yeah. I'm going to climb forever. I think I'm going to climb forever. I'm going to ski forever. I'm going to, yeah, for sure.

4 (2h 18m 15s):
I love it. Listen, keep kicking ass. Thank you. Thank you very much for being here and let everybody know what your social media so they can say nice.

2 (2h 18m 26s):
Okay. Do I just say it right now? I am Emily A. Harrington at Emily. A Harrington

4 (2h 18m 34s):
On Instagram, Instagram

2 (2h 18m 35s):
On Instagram. Yeah, but if you just, if you just search it, you'd find it on all the other ones too. Okay.

4 (2h 18m 41s):
Well thank you, Emily. I really enjoyed talking to you. It was a lot of fun. Thanks. Alright, bye everybody. Thank you friends for tuning into the show and thank you to legacy box. This is the best deal of the year. Go to legacy box.com/rogan to take advantage of this limited time offer and get 60% off this exclusive offer won't last long. So order their kit now and send it in whenever you're ready. It's a sale to remember, go to legacy box.com/rogan and save 60% off while supplies last. Thank you also to the mother fucking cash app. That's right. The cash app kids, the number one app in finance in all the land, download the cash app from the app store or the play store today.

0 (2h 19m 29s):
And when you do download the cash app, make sure you enter the referral code. Joe Rogan, all one word, you will receive $10 and the cash app will also send $10 to our good friend. Justin Wren's fight for the forgotten charity building Wells for the Pygmies in the Congo. We're also brought to you by Traeger grills. My absolute favorite way to cook available online or in 10,000 plus stores nationwide visit Traeger grills.com/joe. Use the code Rogan at checkout for free shipping. We're also brought to you by black rifle, coffee company, a fantastic coffee company that supports military and first responders and, and all the people on the front lines that are helping during the COVID crisis.

0 (2h 20m 14s):
It's an amazing company. And if you want to support the cause, go to black rifle, coffee.com/joe Rogan today, and check out the freshest coffee in America. The team has spent thousands of hours testing, sourcing, and perfecting coffee from all over the world. Black rifle, coffee.com/rogan gets you 20% off coffee, apparel and gear as well as 20% off your first month of the coffee club. And again, this company was founded as a combination of two passions, developing amazing coffee and supporting those who serve on the front lines. It's a great company, black rifle, coffee company.com/joe Rogan.

0 (2h 20m 57s):
My friend, thank you for tuning in appreciate you all much. Love bye-bye

8 (2h 21m 2s):
<inaudible>.