0 (0s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out The Joe Rogan Experience Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night. All day. We're up. Hey,

UFO Headquarters (13s):
Good to see you, my friend. Hello, Joe. So we should tell everybody this podcast came about from what time in the morning? Was it when I called you? It might been one of them late night ones, wasn't it? Well, they all run together, but it Was a late night freakout UFO con conversation. I was like, dude, we gotta do a podcast about this because it outta all of my friends that actually can understand physics and explain it. You, you, you comprehend it at a very high level. So if for things like this to be puzzling to you, to the point where you actually want to talk about it. Well, I, I, I don't want to talk about it because I got, dude, I got this one so wrong for years. I mean, there is no Trace of me talking about UFOs, I think before three years ago, because I can't stand the topic. Unlike the rest of you. This thing hits very differently for,

0 (1m 3s):
Well, I should say then I've gone back and forth.

2 (1m 6s):
Yeah, I know. I've

1 (1m 7s):
Watched Curiosity. I've banned it for a long time until I watched the Bob Bazar documentary. Hmm. When Jeremy Corbell made that Bob Bazar documentary, I was like, God damnit they got me back in again. They drew me back in again.

2 (1m 18s):
I don't think, I don't know if there's ever footage of me saying the words, Bob Lazar.

1 (1m 22s):
There it goes. There

2 (1m 23s):
You go. I know, but

1 (1m 26s):
I would love to, I would love to facilitate that dinner.

2 (1m 29s):
Oh, let's do

1 (1m 30s):
You and Bob Lazar. I

2 (1m 31s):
Don't know why. You know, there's always this question about, is Bob Lazar a physicist? Was he trained at these places? and I, I have to imagine that that's an easily resolvable question because you can tell whether somebody is a physicist pretty quickly.

1 (1m 47s):
I would love, that's why I can't, it's like, you know, you know what it's like, it's like fake black belts. There's a lot of fake black belts. And if you're a real martial artist, you watch it and you go, what the fuck is this guy doing? This is hilarious. But some people who don't have any understanding of martial arts, right? Oh my God, this guy's a death touch. He can just touch you behind the ear and you fall asleep and people believe it.

2 (2m 7s):
Yeah. I I thought he would just skip everything and go right to the five point to exploding hard technique.

1 (2m 11s):
Yeah. So that is how I am when, you know, I got it physicist. I'm like, I don't know what you're saying. I, I can't verify or deny.

2 (2m 20s):
Well,

1 (2m 20s):
So, but Bob Lazar is a very impressive person to talk to. And what's, what's really impressive to me is that he's had this same exact story,

2 (2m 29s):
Right,

1 (2m 29s):
Since the 1980s. And the new footage of these crafts that show them rotating 180 degrees before they take off is exactly how he described.

2 (2m 41s):
So we, how do you want to ease into this? We just,

1 (2m 44s):
Well, what got, what, what got you curious about it if you had just decided that it was all horse shit? Yeah. Like what changed your perspective?

2 (2m 52s):
Okay, this is a really weird and interesting question. I had a different puzzle that I've been working on for years, which has to do with physics and is important to me in my work and what I, what I care about, which is, there is this crazy history between around 1953 and 1973 with a, an explosion of activity that sometimes goes under the name of the golden age of general relativity, where general Relativity was sort of put in final form in the teens by Einstein and also Marcel Grossman, who never gets the credit for the original papers, I think in the, on general relativity, isn't that

1 (3m 31s):
Always the case? Yeah. but it always, like some guy behind the scenes that actually wrote for Shakespeare,

2 (3m 37s):
I Einstein is the Genius, but he had a mathematical friend whose father saved Einstein, I think got him the patent job. So he, he's in the, and, and there's like a meeting called the Marcel Grossman meeting. So he is a shadowy figure on the edge of the Einstein legend. I don't think he deserves the credit, Einstein did. But if you look at the first paper in general, relativity before Einstein says anything concrete, the the first paper, he says something vague, and that's 1913. And that's with Grossman. The next paper, he says something wrong, he publishes the wrong equation, then he corrects the equation, and it's incomplete because it doesn't have the cosmological constant. and I think it's four papers before he has the equation that now dominates our understanding of the cosmos and the large interesting, and the, so then it goes silent and effectively the smart kids are all following boar because boar and the quantum have so many open problems.

2 (4m 38s):
Whereas general relativity seems like a pretty much a closed book. And that's until 1953. And something very bizarre happens in 1953, which we can get to. But then there's 20 years of explosion in general relativity, which, you know, you've had Roger Penrose on your program before. So he comes from that era, and Stephen Hawking was interior to that era. Richard Feinman of all people was very active and gave lectures at Caltech. So my entry point was that when I was a young guy at the University of Pennsylvania, when I'd come home to LA for break, I'd go out to Caltech and I would park in Feinman or Gelman's parking spaces, which I just thought was the coolest thing in the world, that these people, these gods had little, you know, stones with their names stencil on it.

2 (5m 29s):
So I would go park in Feynman's space and I would go to the Caltech bookstore, and I found that there was something that was sold there that at the time, I don't think it was sold anywhere else, which was like the Feynman lectures on gravitation 1962 to 63. And they were effed up. They, it was like Feinman says, I don't know how Einstein did his thing, but imagine that you didn't have the insight that this was all geometric based on a guy named Bernard Ryman's notion of what differential geometry is, the sort of the smooth surface geometry of curvature. And Feynman says, let's just imagine this was an ordinary field theory. Am I Richard Feynman smart enough to figure out the geometry just proceeding as if I was a particle theorist?

2 (6m 12s):
And like, this is a very strange and interesting, wonderful thing to do. And these, these notes are fantastic. My question is, what happened between 1953 and 1973? Because the reason that, that I'm in part really animated right now is that this month, February 1st, 2023 is the exact 50th year anniversary of the stagnation in particle theory is measured by the movement from the standard model. So the standard model in general, relativity are the two basic theories. The theory of the very small, the theory of the very large, they're incompatible in a certain level, but they're very similar looking at a different level.

2 (6m 52s):
So this has been driving people crazy and I say, you know, in 1973, crocodile Rock was the number one song, or the entire yellow ribbon around the old Oak tree. Imagine that song being at the top of the pops for 50 years with no respite. That's how impressive, that's how impressive this is. Right? That's a great comparison. That's a great comparison. Right. So just imagine the platform shoes and the right, right. Going up above the, so it doesn't make any sense. Doesn't make any sense. How did the world's smartest community stagnate this badly? This has happened once before. In recent times between 1928 when De Rock came up with something called Quantum electrodynamics, which is electrons and photons interacting light and a little bit of matter.

2 (7m 37s):
And for almost 20 years until 1947, we couldn't compute with this first quantum field theory, quantum electrodynamics, otherwise known as QED. And suddenly in 1947, we held a conference at Shelter Island in the tip of Long Island. And they didn't invite the old people as much as they invited the young people coming after the success of the Manhattan Project. Now the Manhattan Project gets remembered by us as a physics project, but it was really engineering because the theorists were unable to fight their way out of a paper bag. And so we gave them an engineering project and they completely crushed it. Right? They gave us these atomic weapons. So we had a pretty good idea of who was smart and people like Feynman were smart.

2 (8m 20s):
So we held this, this weird cheap conference at Shelter Island at the Rams Head Inn. And Feynman figured out that along with a guy named Julian Sch Swinger and another guy named Toman in Japan, that there was a stupid error, like a really boneheaded, you know, I can't find my keys for 20 years. And then you realize, oh, they're in my pocket. So this thing had to do with the fact that there were two concepts of mass for the electron. And if you imagine that this was, that this table between us was ice, right? and I pushed this cup that we would know about how much the mass of this cup was based on how it responded to force.

2 (9m 2s):
But what if I start putting friction? Now it's wood. It appears to be slightly more massive because it takes more force to drag a cup across wood than it does across ice because of the coefficient of friction. That number is the effective mass or the dressed mass. And we thought that that was the real mass. And we had those two numbers said equal. And when we realized that they weren't the same number, suddenly the theory yielded. So it was a 20 year stagnation that ended because there was a boneheaded mistake. So we have some experience with this.

1 (9m 35s):
Is this stagnation more confusing to you because everything else has kind of moved along Technologically innovation?

2 (9m 46s):
No, things mostly haven't moved. Really? Yeah. We, we all have this sense of like, oh my God, the dizzying pace of progress. Right? And then I, I always set this, this problem this way. I say, if you subtract the screens in our lives, so our phones, the Biff, flat screen TVs, all that stuff, and you, and you forget about style issues. 'cause style changes. How do you know you're not in 1973 more or less, you know, we don't have George Jetson stuff everywhere.

1 (10m 12s):
Style would be a big

2 (10m 13s):
One. Yeah. Style would be, but just in terms of technolo, like the distance between 1952 where we have the first thermonuclear device in the test known as Ivy mike in 1902, before we even have powered flight is like 10,000 years. Mm. It's enormous, right? The difference between 1973 and 2023 is mostly due to computers. Computers and communication are the two really big expanding things. Now, I'm not saying you don't have quad copters and you don't have Right.

1 (10m 43s):
But because we interact with that primarily we think of things as being far more advanced. Right? And like, on a broad scale, well,

2 (10m 50s):
This is the issue, you know, the way I used to say it is it was between electrons and atoms. The world of atoms stagnated, the world of electrons went crazy. It's

1 (11m 1s):
Actually a very good point too, in terms of one of the, one of the major industries that has to improve every year is automobiles. Right? And the problem with that is they're so good. Like, if you get to like a Tesla level of performance, the idea that you're gonna get faster than that is fucking insane.

2 (11m 18s):
You don't want it necessarily get faster. You

1 (11m 20s):
Don't want to get that fast. The idea that you could just go to a store and buy a car that will go zero to 60 in two seconds is fucking nuts, man. I know. It's nuts.

2 (11m 31s):
Well, it's most, it's mostly a battery and a computer claiming a car, right? That's, but

1 (11m 35s):
Keep going. Exactly What I was gonna say is they're all reliant on computers now. Yeah. Like, I really like old cars. I really like,

2 (11m 42s):
You can tinker

1 (11m 42s):
Old. Yeah. But it's also, I just like that there's a direct connection. Mechanically you feel a mechanical connection to the gears and the steering. There's something about them that's very satisfying. They don't even have to be fast. They don't have to move fast. Like driving around normally. Right? It's like driving a ride. It's very fun. Whereas with a Tesla, it's just, you know that if you turn the wheel, it'll turn the, it'll turn the, the actual wheels that are on the road. But You don't feel them. You don't feel that thing. You're just turning a thing and a thing happens. You're not directly connected to it. It's all computers. Well, it's like all the new computer, all the new cars rely on computers.

2 (12m 20s):
If you listen to John Mayer for example, talking about what's wrong with modeling amplifiers, you know, you can get a hundred thousand dollars worth of equipment in one of these little boxes. But a tube amp is hard to replace because there's something special in analog technology of a different time. Or you pass current through a pickup. And that magnet, you know, there's magic that happens between wood and magnets and, and steel, right. All this kind of stuff. I appreciate an a, an automatic transmission is a thing of beauty, but I'd rather drive a stick still. Yeah,

1 (12m 53s):
Yeah. It's still, you don't wanna drive one in traffic, but if it's just you enjoying driving, there's nothing like a stick shift. It, this is where they lose this, they lose the focus with computers. It's like you're taking away one of the best things about driving, which is the enjoyment of driving. And you're replacing it with tenths of a second that no one's gonna notice. And you really shouldn't notice anyway because they're all ridiculously fast. Yeah.

2 (13m 19s):
But the, this train will not slow down. Well,

1 (13m 23s):
I get it. But people need to understand, just from a human perspective, you will enjoy driving a manual car more if you have any life left

2 (13m 33s):
In you tight suspension. If you

1 (13m 35s):
Have any fucking spark left in you, when you're on a windy road, you want to go wha wha even if you're not driving fast, it's,

2 (13m 43s):
If I'm not mistaken, more fun if I'm, the Rolls Royce had to put sound back in because they'd subtracted so much sound through their patented insulation systems. That's, that's

1 (13m 52s):
BMW's done that as well. Yeah.

2 (13m 53s):
It's, it's, you know, it's not, it's safe. Well now you're like, you're gonna simulate it's

1 (13m 58s):
Gross. I know they're talking about doing that for Ferraris because they're gonna make an EV Ferrari. So if they made an electrical Ferrari, they're talking about making fake Ferrari noises. Right. Which is just an atrocious thing to come outta Italy. Stop it. Wait, wait, just stop it. Wait. What the fuck is where You guys are all passion and, and wine and sound. Ferrari's supposed to be like this high revving. There's something about that as it's happening that excites you. Right? It's, it's music, it's dance, it's love, it's, it's real. You can't have fake,

2 (14m 36s):
You had this with the El

1 (14m 37s):
Ferrari sounds. No. Okay. No, but Elon's cars don't make any sound. I love it. I,

2 (14m 41s):
Well, I get terrified of it 'cause they sneak up behind me.

1 (14m 44s):
That's, that is an issue. Yeah, that is an issue.

2 (14m 46s):
Okay. But so getting back to the whole UFO thing and the progress, we don't realize what percentage of life was determined by physics. Right? So for example, wifi and all the communication is the electromagnetic spectrum, including radio waves. We don't realize the semiconductor, which created the logic gate, you know, just we, all we did was scale it up and that now it's chat. GPT. Yeah. The number of things that have changed the world, whether it's the worldwide web coming outta CERN physics is really what has moved the dial, including molecular biology founded by physicists more or less.

2 (15m 26s):
So when you lose this community, you don't understand, like you think, okay, that's some egghead shit. It isn't. Physics is basically progress physics created the modern economy. And to have a 50 year stagnation particularly, and I and I wanna draw a really important contrast. 1968 was the year we discovered the cork. So in every proton there are three valence corks. Two of them named up, one of them named down in a neutron. It's two downs and one up. So that's how we neutrons and protons are not fundamental. When we found the neutron, it was in 1932. So my Aunt Judy, shout out to Aunt Judy in Philadelphia, shout out to Aunt Judy is older than the neutron.

2 (16m 11s):
And the neutron doomed us as a species like that one discovery more or less indicated that if we do not leave this world, we will die here in short order. Because if you throw a proton at a very heavy nucleus, it doesn't crash into the nucleus. You've got all these protons in the center that are all positively charged. And this one guy is coming in, you know, at high speed and all these massive protons say, you know, like charges repel. And this thing just runs away. Like scaredy cat, a neutron is almost a proton. It's basically the same kind of a, a deal, but with no charge. So it doesn't understand that you're telling it, you know, go back danger and it just screams in and it can split these nuclei releasing all of this energy.

2 (16m 59s):
And then you get these chain reactions with the neutrons radiating out. So in 1932, we discovered the neutron, I think it was by 38, this woman named Lisa Meitner figures out the chain reaction by 42, 10 years after the discovery of the neutron Enco Fermi and something called Chicago pile one, CP one crazily does a controlled chain reaction under the bleachers of the University of Chicago. Shout out to the University of Chicago stadium, which could have obliterated the city of Chicago if it had gone critical, right? I mean, if it had just run away, we don't, nobody knew what was gonna happen. Yeah. So we trusted the city of Chicago to Enrico Fermi's calculation by 45.

2 (17m 42s):
You get Trinity and the two bombs we drop on Japan. And then in 1952, game over, you have Ivy Mike in the first thermonuclear weapon based on the teller ullo design, which uses the fission bomb just for foreplay as the detonator that causes the waves to go out and radiate out against the shell. and I think we still don't talk exactly how we do it. And then they bounce off and they compress this rod and core. And then you get fusion rather than fission, and suddenly you're harnessing the power of the sun. And that's when you don't even worry about ducking cover, because thermonuclear is such a, a leap above nu above fission devices.

2 (18m 22s):
And that's such a leap above conventional that it takes 20 years for us to become God. Right? And this power we can't control, we need to worry about physics because you never know when somebody's gonna discover a neutron. In other words, a high leverage object, just like the semiconductor was a high leverage object. The worldwide web in the early nineties was the high leverage object. Anything that comes outta physics. Oh. And you know, Francis Crick physicist discovering the three-dimensional structure of DNA and then the transfer hypothesis of where you translate DNA into messenger, RNA, which gets read in ribosomes.

2 (19m 4s):
All of these things changed the world and effectively gave us so much power that we don't know how to control it. And we were so scared for 70 years because at six months between 1952 and 53, where we discover both the Adam and the cell and how they work in terms of this forbidden knowledge, we were so scared that we behaved ourselves. And now we're not scared. We're like SVA, Ukraine, just whatever. Yeah. We've got Putin, we're gonna back 'em into a corner.

1 (19m 41s):
Yeah. We should probably say that this is actually the day that we're talking about. This is the day that Putin just backed out of the nuclear treaty publicly, which is not good with

2 (19m 54s):
Joe Bidet going to Yes. Kiev and pledging his undying love to, and I'm gonna say this, which is very painful. I think Zelensky is a complete menace. Why do you think that he's romantic? He's telegenic, he's brave. We can talk about whether he got set up in a coup or you know, who he really is. He was an actor, et cetera, et cetera. But at some point, I think I heard him, I had to go back to like the Russian and Ukrainian speeches in order to try to, I don't speak much Russian. I don't speak any Ukrainian, but they're closely related languages. And he calls for like prevent Ari, like preventative strikes.

2 (20m 38s):
I'm like, huh, you know, this is a while. This was a while ago. and I thought, why is this person allowed to address Congress? You have somebody who, and I and I wanna be very clear about this. I really find it disgusting what Vladimir Putin did invading Ukraine. But if you look historically at the killing and the borders of Eastern and central Europe, they have gone back and forth like nobody's business. When you ask somebody like me, an American Ashkenazi, J where did your family come from? You always get the same weird response.

2 (21m 18s):
It's like, oh, it was a part of Belarus that went back and forth between Poland, Ukraine, Mount Moldova. Mm. You know, Lithuania because it's fluid, right? And so when we say, you know, we, we, we respect the territorial integrity of Ukraine. We were fighting right now in Levo, like the Ukrainians were fighting in Levo eight seconds by hypersonic missile from Article five territory since 1999 in Poland. and I realized how crazy we got. I was in Providence, Rhode Island with my son and I get this alert on my phone and it says, two people are dead in Poland with, with a presumptive strike by a Russian missile.

2 (22m 3s):
I'm thinking, did, did I read two Polish people dead in an Article five full NATO member since 1999 with a Russian missile? 'cause I knew we were fighting way too close to this border. Now, by the way, if I say luvo, everyone's gonna correct me and say, no, no Eric, it's Aviv. It's like, no, these, these cities all have multiple pronunciations. I I always thought of Luvo was a Polish city, not a Ukrainian city. And ironically, I believe Luvo is the birthplace of Stanislaw Ula who came up with the teller Islam thermonuclear design. So we're talking about some of the world's smartest people on some of the world's bloodiest, most disgusting, most beautiful land.

2 (22m 48s):
You know? Have you, have you ever been to Ukraine? No. So my family basically is scattered, you know, was scattered throughout the shuttles of Ukraine. And I've been over there in eight, in 89. We Americans do not understand central and Eastern Europe, period, the end. And for us to be making these commitments and not understanding how Russians think and how Ukrainians think and how polls think and how the fighting works. I don't think we know what we're doing. I think we're creating a doomsday machine. and I the reason that we, you know, it's not like Zelensky isn't wronged by Putin.

2 (23m 29s):
It's not like he's not charismatic. He has one of the greatest Bruce Willis lines of all time when we asked to evacuate him, he says, I need ammunition not a ride. You know, that thing makes us, yeah, yeah. I want that. Right? And then, then there's like house to house fighting the way all the World War II enthusiasts think they, they tend not to think about Nagasaki and Hiroshima. They like the, the tactical stuff with all the, you know, which bridge got got taken out over which river and how did we do this and that. So it's very romantic to people who are like World War II addicts. We do not realize how deep the trouble we're courting is. and I don't think we realize how dangerous it is.

2 (24m 10s):
If we are going to, every time there's a border dispute, go to a thermonuclear stand, you know, standoff. It's just Russian roulette with smaller and smaller numbers of empty chambers and I don't know what this is. I don't know whether we, we have 30 years to play this game, or three or three months. But I learned that day last year in 2022. Nobody around me in Providence, Rhode, Rhode Island was reacting. Everybody was just going about, it was like a normal day. It's like, I'm, I'm increasingly Joe believing that I am sane and that the world is crazy.

2 (24m 50s):
And normally I take that as a cue that maybe I need to get some sleep. No, I think we're actually just going crazy. I think that those of us who actually get how risky this is need to speak up because it's not fun. The entire apparatus will tell you that you're soft on Putin and you're an appeasing Chamberlain wannabe. And it's like bullshit right now. You don't realize in 2004, we let Latvia and Lithuania into NATO membership and I remember thinking at the time, what the hell are we doing? It's not like, I don't understand that we wanna protect them. It's not like, I don't understand that you wanna say that they're independent nations, but these were former Soviet republics.

2 (25m 31s):
And there's two ways of thinking about it. You can put on one set of glasses and say, well, these are nations that get to decide what they want and who's to tell them what to do. And then there's another thing called spheres of influence where it's like, that's the Russian sphere of influence. If you are not playing with both of these sets of lenses, you're not playing the game. And the number of people who just have one set of these glasses on, right? They're only seeing the infrared or they're only seeing the ultraviolet. It's like, no, you, you need to oscillate back and forth and understand what you're doing. So I think, I think Zelensky, and I'm scared to say this because I know I'm gonna get just nothing but hate. We created a situation by pretending that we didn't understand the spheres of in influence glasses.

2 (26m 11s):
We very well understand the sovereignty classes. And we are now creating a doomsday machine that we do not understand. And the world is gonna go multipolar and we don't have the skill to play this game. Period.

1 (26m 24s):
Do you think part of the problem is that we're, that the amount of people that have actually gone to war in this country, First of all, there's, there's people that are in the army or in all the armed forces, they're, they're volunteers. Everyone volunteers. There's no draft, there's no national requirement to join the military like there is in Israel. And like there is in South Korea and many other countries, we, the the people that have experience with the war are the ones that are telling you this is dangerous. People like yourself are telling us this is dangerous. But to the rest of the world, to the rest of this country, there's a real problem with day-to-day existence.

1 (27m 4s):
Because day-to-day existence is tricky. and it, it gives you parameters which you exist in, but they're not real. They're not real. They're not real. You, they're only real right now. And if you invite war, you now are like these videos that you can watch. I don't know if you're on Telegram, there's some fucking videos from this war on like in the Woods, groundfighting. I've

2 (27m 28s):
Seen them.

1 (27m 28s):
Heavy, heavy shit. and I don't think people that show up every day at the same Starbucks and then get on the highway and go to their office and repeat every fucking day. I don't think they think of that as a real option in the world. but it is,

2 (27m 45s):
Think of daily life as ketamine. Okay? So you've got people walking around completely dissociated because everything in their daily environment tells them to pick up the dry cleaning. Right? And you know, oh,

1 (27m 58s):
Everything's fine. Oh,

2 (28m 1s):
What's on Netflix?

1 (28m 2s):
Yeah.

2 (28m 4s):
At least in the Cuban missile crisis, my father was driving across country. I said, you knew it was the, he says everybody knew it was the Cuban Missile Crisis. Every single town that he drove through, he would stop and the TV would be on. People were talking about it, right? We are in some world where, and and I think that we have to just talk about the fact that the United States is attacking ordinary, intelligent human beings by depriving them of any basic knowledge of what is actually going on. We don't know what happened with the origin of Covid. We have no idea about Epstein. We don't know what's going on with the vaccines. We don't understand the source of the inflation.

2 (28m 44s):
We blinded ourselves from looking at the M one monetary aggregate when the Fed pumped us full of cheap cash. We have no clue how to resolve, you know, something as dumb as the Epstein to whom did, did Ghislaine traffic? I don't know.

1 (29m 1s):
Yeah. Well, can't find it. Sorry. Bye.

2 (29m 3s):
So this is what's causing in part our friends to go crazy. Mm. You know, several years ago, Sam Harris had good input. Jordan Harrison. Jordan Peterson had good input. Brett Weinstein had good input. Most of them, I don't think have figured out that they're starved for information. And that, and I'm gonna say something very hetero heterodox to the heterodoxy. The heterodoxy was never meant to take over for the orthodoxy. The orthodoxy was something that needed correction. The purpose of that heterodoxy is to say, ah, you're, you're 12 degrees off, you're three degrees off. What do you do when you're like 168 degrees off and all, you know, like the fine tuning that Heterodoxy can do is not sufficient to correct the ship and what we're being, what's happening to us.

2 (29m 53s):
and I said this to Sam at a dinner with Dave Rubin, right before Trump took over. I said, Sam, if You don't take a different approach to Trump, he's gonna blow out your circuits. He said, what do you mean? I said, well, for every ambiguous thing that you can't resolve with Trump, raise two to that power. So if he puts three ambiguities in a series, you have two to the third possibilities of what could be true. That's eight. He can create a decision tree that explodes faster than you, Sam Harris can think. Right? There's no way you can get to two to the fourth possibilities on a decision tree.

2 (30m 34s):
And Sam, I don't think he understood the perspective. And so what happened was we were all swimming in this world where nobody could tell which end was up. Nobody can resolve anything. and I think a lot of this has to do.

1 (30m 45s):
I'm not sure I understand what you were just saying there.

2 (30m 47s):
Okay.

1 (30m 48s):
That this decision tree thing that, that Sam, he was gonna blow. Explain that. So

2 (30m 53s):
Let's imagine for example, that I'm staying at a local hotel. Okay? And you don't know whether I'm staying at the Hyatt of the Four Seasons. Okay? And you also can't figure out whether I'm leaving at one o'clock or at two o'clock and you don't know whether I'm going to be arriving by a white Prius or a black Escalade. You now have too many possibilities as to, well what's the, the drive time for those two hotels is different. I don't know which car I'm looking for. There are eight possibilities now of what could actually be happening. 'cause those are all independent, right? When Trump created ambiguities, or now the bidet group is creating ambiguities by not telling us what's actually going on.

2 (31m 38s):
You don't know how serious this East Palestine, Ohio spill is. Is this something that's gonna burn off pretty easily? Or is this getting into the corn crop that's gonna be found in all processed food? I don't know. I don't know how much. It's

1 (31m 50s):
A very good

2 (31m 51s):
Question. Right? Okay. So just every day you're being assaulted by completely unnecessary ambiguities. Mm. And, and you know, this is,

1 (32m 0s):
But why, why then the Trump thing? Why his, why would his derangement towards Trump?

2 (32m 8s):
Well, because Circuits Sam made one terrible call with Trump. He said that he was the evil Chauncey gardener. Like a simpleton like Mr. Magoo just happens to wander into the Oval offices. The first gov, first, first president with zero government experience, including the armed services. Bullshit. Trump may be a savant, but he was brilliant, absolutely brilliant. If you do not give that devil its due. You're toast.

1 (32m 36s):
Yeah. It's silly to say that he's dumb 'cause he's different. He says some dumb stuff sometimes. But oftentimes he's talking off the top of his head. Oh, I don't even think, like, maybe use some bleach, clean it out. Remember that. Exactly. Use some. But meanwhile, one of the things that he said about using light, right? Actually, they came up with a process of doing that. That was an actual procedure that they would use where they use ultraviolet light inside a person's lungs and kill the covid virus. This was like a, a concept that they were actually putting forth as being possible. So what he said, even though it sounded ridiculously right. Get light into their body. Actually

2 (33m 15s):
It actually was. Right. But that's the thing. So then a bunch of people said, okay, right, I'm gonna put a minus sign in front of Trump. Everything that he says is just wrong. Right. You can't do that. Well, they do this to Alex Jones. Yeah. They do this to James O'Keefe and they'll do it to you and me. They

1 (33m 28s):
De definitely done it to me. They have to definitely done it to you too. It's a thing that people do. Look, just because someone, look, I say dumb things all the time. Constantly. My kids make

2 (33m 37s):
Fun of me. Well, I never, I never do.

1 (33m 39s):
I am always saying dumb things because I talk sometimes before I totally think. But then I go, oh, wait a minute. That doesn't make sense. And then I'll correct it. Like I'm, I'm trying not to be married to my thoughts. There's a real problem. You're,

2 (33m 50s):
You're, you're great at this by the way. There's

1 (33m 51s):
A real problem. But because I'm, I recognize my fucking shortcomings. Me too. Yeah. You know, I, I know that I, I am, I'm scattered. Okay. 'cause I do a lot of different things and I'm thinking about things that are totally unnecessary. Like professional pool matches. Like, I think about that all the time. I kind to get position on that six ball. It's crazy. And I'll, I'll think about that when I'm driving my car. So like, I'm a scatterbrained in a lot of ways. So sometimes when I'm talking, I'm, I'm there, but I'm not like fully formed in these thoughts. I'm trying to talk 'em out in real time. Right. And you, you get clumsy with that. And when you concentrate on something, you get really good at it. And if you concentrate on something and try to improve on something, whether it's playing chess or whether it is business, you get really good at it.

1 (34m 36s):
And in the meanwhile, you might not be good at interpersonal relationships. You might not be good at the way you communicate with people you might not be good at. But you have some weird thing that you're doing that seems to be successful. And you're, you're putting all your energy into that. That's what he's doing. That's what he's always done. What he's always done is like these business deals and making money and putting a fucking giant hotel with his name on it. Whoa. Like, that's what he thinks about. And he's really good ATSs

2 (35m 2s):
That shit. He's, and I would say he's tactical in the extreme. You can't

1 (35m 5s):
Say he's not smart. It's just like he's, he's just not Sam Harris. He's not capable of those kind of eloquent speeches and conversations off, off the cuff like that. Which is a totally different skill.

2 (35m 17s):
Yeah. But if you looked at his tweets, for example, back in the day, there was so much formula in those tweets. I I started coming up with like a template. He had five different tweets. Yeah. And Sam just would not let go of the idea that he's a dumb dumb. And that was super expensive in the long run. But

1 (35m 35s):
I think it's because Sam knows that if you, you get in a debate with that guy, he could trounce him. Part of it is

2 (35m 41s):
That you think, you think, yes, Sam could trounce him

1 (35m 45s):
If, if they got in debate about religion, if they got in debate about, about certain things that Sam is like neuroscience, certain things that Sam's very educated in. He's, he's so good at debates. It's like being a black belt that's used to tapping people all the time. And then you see this guy that's, he's winning debates against people because he's calling them like, what does he call Lion Ted? And he calls these, he gives people nicknames. Right. And, and I think if I was Sam and I was as good as debate at debate as Sam is, yeah. I would go, I could fuck this guy up.

2 (36m 18s):
Sam doesn't know what's coming to him if that's true, because there was a guy named Max Bleacher,

1 (36m 22s):
I'm sorry Sam drag you into this,

2 (36m 24s):
Who was a, who was a Los Angeles attorney who had a crazy idea. He said, I'm gonna try really complex antitrust cases in front of juries jury. Jury's not gonna be able to follow that. He's like, exactly. I'm gonna speak simply. Look, one way to win one of these arguments is just say, you know, the problem is the nuclear family. Right. And every single Democrat will say, you mean nuclear And then you've lost, right. 'cause when you correct somebody who's saying nuclear, you're like, okay, it's nuclear egghead, you lose.

1 (36m 57s):
But nuclear is a way to say it too.

2 (37m 0s):
It is now. So, but this,

1 (37m 2s):
That's how, that's how George W. Bush who said it, and everybody's like, Hey, what the fuck Dennis Miller had a bit about it, but

2 (37m 7s):
It wins, right? Yeah. So this is why if you sit down with one of these, like, if, if you and I are at the beach, right? And we've got the world's greatest beach volleyball team on one side. And the world's greatest CPAC tucker team on the other side is it's a ball, it's a net and it's 3 3 3 dudes. Okay. Okay. Who wins?

1 (37m 26s):
The people that are better? Nope. Who

2 (37m 29s):
Depends who the ref is. If the ref thinks it's volleyball, then the volleyball team will win. And if it, if the ref thinks it's CPAC Tuck row, the CPAC Tuck row team, it's the same.

1 (37m 38s):
I don't know what CPAC Tuck Row is.

2 (37m 40s):
Oh, it's like the most beautiful. Do

1 (37m 41s):
You know what that is? Yeah. Yeah. What is it? It's similar to the thing with that ball that we have out there that Oh. Of like one

2 (37m 47s):
Of these where Balls Duke

1 (37m 48s):
Gave us. Yeah, yeah. Oh, okay. That's,

2 (37m 51s):
It's like martial arts ballet in the air with

1 (37m 53s):
Feet. Oh, that's

2 (37m 53s):
Amazing. Feet. It's like, it's, it's the best game ever. I dunno why we're not doing it.

1 (37m 57s):
It's amazing. Right? Well, we can't do it. Those guys are fucking,

2 (38m 0s):
I destroyed my left ankle on this game. Oh, you

1 (38m 3s):
Can't be doing that. You can't

2 (38m 4s):
Do No, no. I was a young man. I was courting my wife. I was gonna oppress her in Indonesia. Show like, let let an American take over. Okay, here

1 (38m 10s):
We go. Oh, these guys are, these guys are phenomenal. Okay. Like, that is insane. I mean, that's like a hundred. Yay. Rodriguez is out there. Yay. Rodriguez is A-A-U-F-C fighter fights like that. Why I

2 (38m 20s):
Almost did it with boxing versus UFC. Right? Is the issue punching people in the face or is the issue doing everything except for small joints and, and, and eye sockets?

1 (38m 29s):
That kind of thing though requires like a kind of dexterity that's very difficult to acquire. Like that kind of of dexterity with your legs. That's like a TaeKwonDo dexterity.

2 (38m 38s):
Hundred percent. The question is what are the rules? So in other words, if, if Sam Harris goes up against Donald Trump, I can tell you who's gonna win depending upon how we score.

1 (38m 48s):
Okay. What if, what if they have a conversa instead of like having this i this, here's what I don't like about debates. Yeah. This, what's artificial is that one person gets to talk for X amount of time. Yeah. It seems silly to me. and I don't mind someone being able to talk. but it has to be a conversation. Someone cannot dominate the conversation. Sure. Like you and I, if you and I had a disagreement and I just wouldn't let you talk. It's very frustrating. It sucks. It's not good for anybody. It's

2 (39m 16s):
More likely to go the other way. I'm sorry.

1 (39m 17s):
It could happen that way. It could happen that way, but it doesn't matter. It's like, it's not fun. Yeah. And it's not, it's not fair. And like if you're gonna have, it's like a fight. You can't, I can poke you in the eye, but you can't poke me in the eye. No, that's not fair. Right. It has to be fair. So if you're going to have a, and, and some would say, well, he's not capable of having a good faith conversation. But that's the only way to do it. The only way to do it is to have an open-ended timeframe where you could just, until this fucking thing is resolved. Right. Or until we all give up, you guys can talk. Was

2 (39m 47s):
Dick Fosbury Fair?

1 (39m 49s):
Who's Dick Fs bar,

2 (39m 50s):
The high jump guy from 68 in Mexico City.

1 (39m 53s):
I don't know what happened.

2 (39m 54s):
Oh, he figured out he, you had to go backwards over the bar rather than scissoring it.

1 (39m 59s):
Oh, he's the first guy to figure that out. Yeah. Oh, no kidding. Right? That's a pretty fucking bold move, right? Pretty

2 (40m 5s):
Bold move. Or like the, you enter a catamaran in the America's Cup.

1 (40m 9s):
Did they have the same big pad? Yeah. So they had the same big pad before and they were just landing on it like that. Oh wow. That's crazy. Right? Whoa. That's insane. That's how they used to do it. Yeah. Whoa.

2 (40m 21s):
Right. So zero day exploit. Did

1 (40m 23s):
You know this? Did you know, I feel like I knew this and I just, I knew about

4 (40m 27s):
Remember the Raspberry Jump? 'cause I've heard of that, but I didn't, I didn't know how they did it before. I

1 (40m 30s):
Never looked. No shit.

2 (40m 31s):
That's incredible. At the same Olympics, you have Bob Beman jumping like, what is it? Two feet farther than any humans. Like probably the greatest single athletic performance of the 20th century happens there. But zero day exploits are really interesting. Another one was the Bombay International Table Tennis Championship. And the weakest player on the Japanese team was a guy, I'm gonna get the name wrong here, Jamie, keep me honest. Hiro Sato, he shows up in Bombay and he's like the worst player. And he, he's got the Secret Paddle case and he unzips it and he's got rubber glued to both sides of the sandpaper bat that everybody else is using.

2 (41m 12s):
Oh. And he dominates everybody. And you think because the rubber grips and spins. But I think it's actually that the, everyone was queued to the sound and this dead deadened the sound. And suddenly nobody could play against him. And sudden, you know, so he's like Iron Man,

1 (41m 28s):
Right? They're thinking they have another thing that they're thinking about now. Like why does it sound like that? They

2 (41m 32s):
Don't even know that. Right.

1 (41m 36s):
Interesting.

2 (41m 36s):
Okay. Satos controversial

1 (41m 39s):
Shit Sponge bat that caused a revolution in table tennis. But also, wouldn't it slow the ball down because of the softness of it?

2 (41m 48s):
I would imagine it would give you more control.

1 (41m 50s):
It would seems like it would do both of those things. May may, maybe it would slow the ball down a little bit because it's got a little bit of smosh to it. and I think that would almost be like a changeup in like a pitching situation where someone's throwing a ball, you're expecting it to be 90 miles an hour. Instead it's 60 and you're like, motherfucker, like you're just, you're you're off. Right? Because you have to be so ready to go and, and it's slower than it should be. So it's fucking with your computer.

2 (42m 16s):
And I think, I think the Chinese came up with the loop in table tennis. I believe that in beach volleyball, the jumping serve where you, you go airborne and then you, you hit Oh, these, these discreet technical changes. Well let's take the one with Steph Curry. I heard, I wish I could remember who this was. Somebody in your audience will know there was a, an old style top basketball players being interviewed. What do you think of this guy, Steph Curry and what's happening in the game? And he said something. It was so beautiful. I can't tell you something to the effect of, you know, I don't know what game that is. He said, I used to play in the paint and we're all, you know, we're going at it and elbowing and trying to get position this guy's a million miles away from the basket and he's just nothing but net.

2 (43m 4s):
He said, that's not basketball to me. Like, you just didn't recognize what the thing had become. Oh,

1 (43m 11s):
That's so weird.

2 (43m 12s):
And so I think the, the zero day exploits and just taking back to get to the, to the UFOs. 'cause we have crazy stuff. The neutron is a zero day exploit. It's the fosbury flop of physics. Same for the semiconductor. And we've stagnated for so long that people in our government aren't watching people like me and saying, what's going on Eric, anything new? What are you working on? Because anybody who comes up with a new thing can change the entire balance of power on planet earth.

1 (43m 46s):
How far away are we from new things and have new things been?

2 (43m 50s):
You can't ask me that. 'cause I, I have a different view than every other person. I wanna get back to you.

1 (43m 54s):
I don't wanna ask you. Let's do that again. Don't tell me what I can ask you and I, I'm asking you that, bro. Okay. Kicks you ahead. Keep going. We'll get back to me asking you that.

2 (44m 3s):
Yeah, you can ask me at the end, but, okay. But I, I wanna do the stuff that's controversial, but it is like everybody should have to agree

1 (44m 9s):
To it. Okay. Okay, let's go.

2 (44m 11s):
So what I wanted to know was why during the 1950s did something happen that resulted in a 70 year stagnation in a field called quantum gravity? Quantum gravity is like a startup that cannot ship a product after 70 years. And it's still taken over in theoretical physics as sort of the prestige theory field

1 (44m 37s):
And quantum gravity is, is there an application for this that they were attempting to achieve? Y

2 (44m 46s):
No, it's not a, it's not a precursor to technology so far as we know. But what happened was you probably have some dimm memory of something. By the way, these shooting stars in your ceiling are just

1 (44m 57s):
Yeah, yeah. You gotta be worn. I know. Otherwise you're like, oh, oh,

2 (45m 2s):
Quantum gravity is the replacement of something for, is a replacement for something that used to be known as the unified field. So Einstein wasn't chasing quantum gravity. He was chasing unified field theory. And unified field theory was much closer to what we would call classical physics, where you get quantum field theory by quantizing, a classical theory that fell out of favor. And around 1984, we gradually had unified field theory become sort of like a joke old timey expression for the future of physics. And we substituted quantum gravity for the merger of quantum theory, quantum field theory, quantum mechanics and gravitational physics under general relativity.

2 (45m 49s):
That program, that dog doesn't hunt and it hasn't hunted for 70 years. So I wanted to Trace this back. How is it that the field became convinced that something which clearly doesn't seem to work and has had all of the resources, all of the best minds at its disposal, it sucks up everything and it, it just doesn't work. Why can't I question this? Where did this come from?

1 (46m 14s):
So to be specific? Yeah. Like how many people are working on this problem and how many people have been working on this problem for 70 years without progress?

2 (46m 24s):
I would say that the period between 1953 and 73, there are parallel things. Quantum gravity is not the mainstream at all. Okay. So real physics is happening between 53 and 73 by anybody's understanding of it. Okay.

1 (46m 38s):
Okay.

2 (46m 39s):
Between 1973 and 1984 or 19, let's say 74 to 84. 'cause we'll, group 73 with the to 53, you have 10 years of super exciting guesses about the extension of our understanding. Things called super symmetry, grand unified theory, technicolor, asymptotic safety. These are really responsible guesses. Axions. And you know, somebody like Sean Carroll or Neil deGrasse Tyson might talk to you about these things when they come in here in 1984. There's an earthquake called the anomaly cancellation and a, a failed theory of strong physics.

2 (47m 23s):
The physics needed to glue two protons together in a helium nucleus because they both hate each other because of electromagnetism and wanna separate. But something is binding them together like a family structure, right? That force we initially tried to fix by thinking of it as strings, we'll put like elastic bands between things and it'll pull things back together. That didn't work. But then we repurposed it and it said, no, no, no, it's quantum gravity. And one single individual who is the most dominant mind on planet earth at the moment, effectively Voldemort, the person whose name we are a little bit afraid to invoke and, and to cause wrath said in 1984.

2 (48m 4s):
Now strength theory is the way this anomaly cancellation was unexpected. and it clearly points to the fact that we are ladies and gentlemen, we are about to quantize

1 (48m 12s):
Who's that person?

2 (48m 13s):
Edward Whitten.

1 (48m 15s):
And in physics circles, you're not allowed to bring this guy up.

2 (48m 20s):
We talk about him, everybody talks about him. But to challenge him, think about Agent Smith. Think about playing one-on-one with Michael Jordan in his prime.

1 (48m 33s):
He's that good

2 (48m 34s):
Joe. I don't think I, I'm dumb enough not to be intellectually afraid of anyone else on planet earth at this point. I am terrified of this person

1 (48m 43s):
Really?

2 (48m 45s):
I've, I I've said he's the Michael Jordan of theoretical physics. If only Michael Jordan could play better basketball. I'm not kidding around Joe. Okay. Yeah.

1 (48m 56s):
Wow.

2 (48m 56s):
Right. This good and has never made contact with the physical world. So it's like one of the greatest conundrums. So, so let me get back to how crazy,

1 (49m 8s):
What do you mean by never made contact?

2 (49m 10s):
No Nobel Prize never predicted something that turned out to be true. Never pointed us to do an experiment that was invalidated. So a hundred percent of his efforts have been not making contact with physical reality. Oh this is, I'm sorry. Like you have people like Mico Kaku who are in the string theoretic school or Sean Carroll is very sympathetic to it. You need to understand this story. Jamie, if I dare, may I ask, can we pull up something with Edward Whitten and Abdu Salam on YouTube just to like this person's voice.

2 (49m 54s):
Imagine a six foot four person who talks like this.

1 (49m 58s):
Interesting. And just

2 (49m 59s):
Like you could do a vi Vulcan mind meld and rearrange your mind into scrambled eggs within seconds. I know tenured professors who hid in their offices when he visited MIT because he walked on everybody, he knocked on everyone's door and he has, you know how Warren Beatty had a pickup line that everyone knew What's new pussycat? Is

1 (50m 18s):
That what he said?

2 (50m 19s):
Yeah, that was Warren Beatty's pickup line.

1 (50m 20s):
That's all you needed when you were Warren Beatty. That's true. Try that shit if you work at seven 11, this person, okay, lemme hear him. Pretty weird way for a theory to

5 (50m 27s):
Start. The string of theory started with a clever formula written down by ano in an effort to satisfy not so well motivated phenomenological ideas about strong interaction scattering. That was a way for a theory to start, which was as strange as the way quantum mechanic started and the way Einstein happened to have invented a theory in a particularly striking triumph of reason and intuition. But most other physical theories have had more complicated

2 (50m 57s):
Issues. You can tell how much is going on beyond this. It's hard

5 (50m 60s):
To make about them.

6 (51m 1s):
You can't generalize at all of how it mentioned will come. Anybody who makes statements like that is by his own experience.

2 (51m 10s):
Now that is Abdu Islam. Nobel Prize winner

6 (51m 12s):
Must be modified according to each situation. What would you say? Well, it

7 (51m 16s):
Still seems to me it's a question of whether you start with a mathematical scheme and then look for a physical interpretation or start with a physical principle, which you guess to be correct. And then on the one hand, try and prove it experimentally to be true and on the other hand, codify it into a mathematical form. and I must admit, I've always been so admiring Einstein's procedure in general relativity of starting with a very simple physical remark based on the Galileo discovery that bodies of different mass fall at the same rate in the gravitational field of the earth. He made a simple physical hypothesis why that should be true.

2 (51m 55s):
But you, you have to understand, you, you know that old Jim Croci song about Big Jim? Yes. When the bad folks all get together at night, they all call Big Jim Boss. If you ask any of us who are any good, who's the person who terrifies you the most? So

1 (52m 12s):
Are these guys debating him? Is this what's going on?

2 (52m 14s):
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no,

1 (52m 15s):
No. Are they agreeing with him? Are they questioning him?

2 (52m 17s):
They're having a friendly conversation. Right?

1 (52m 19s):
Should we let it go More

2 (52m 21s):
Up to you? But I would, I would concentrate. The other people are very interesting. Yeah. Top people. This person is a towering 17 stories above everybody else.

1 (52m 32s):
Let me hear him talk more because it seemed very fascinating watching the way he was talking about things. It almost seems like he wanted to run away and get back to his lab.

5 (52m 41s):
I agree with you, except that I think it would've taken decades

7 (52m 44s):
Longer. Yes.

5 (52m 46s):
You see, reman almost did it

6 (52m 48s):
Reman

5 (52m 49s):
Reman had the conception that gravity was based on curves based on, but what he lacked, sorry. Reman had the conception that gravity was based on curved space. He didn't conceive of curved space time because special relativity hadn't happened yet. Time and space hadn't been unified. But if reman had lived after special relativity, he would've, he might well have

6 (53m 7s):
Lived, go made you remember. So I don't think it's a such a cut and dried case ever. Well, could I give you one more example if I may please

2 (53m 18s):
Find, find some more Ed? So should

1 (53m 21s):
We walk, get a different video of him or this?

2 (53m 24s):
You, you can find a lecture of him that where he is alone. Just, just

1 (53m 27s):
Let him yap a little bit. Okay.

8 (53m 31s):
You outside the field, a winner of the fundamental physics prize, a $3 million prize recently established by Yuri Milner to matter

5 (53m 40s):
Equivalent of the electron, the positron. So this is him, a particle like the electron, but with the opposite electric charge. So this was actually the discovery of anti-matter. The most basic property of anti-matter is that matter. Anti-matter pairs can be created and annihilated in this picture. Time is running horizontally. And what I'm sketching, the purple wiggly lines are meant to be photons, physicists often in drawing. So-called thyman diagrams use wiggly lines to indicate photons. Here two photons are an dilating into an electron pair. So photons are as close to pure energy as it gets, and they can be converted to matter.

5 (54m 21s):
That is into anti-matter. Matter pairs.

1 (54m 24s):
Imagine dating this guy's daughter and you have to meet him, you know. Hi sir, nice to meet you. What do you, what do you do at work?

2 (54m 36s):
I've tangled with him twice. I don't, I look, two friends of mine are his graduate students. He's had two graduate students in mathematics. He's not even a mathematician. He's won the fields medal. He's never won the Nobel Prize, but he's won the highest prize in all of mathematics. As a sideline. He didn't even major in physics. Majored in history at Brandeis, they're fried their brains. Everybody who comes in contact with this person just never fully recovers

1 (55m 7s):
Because he is that much smarter.

2 (55m 9s):
We don't know what process he's running. I mean, imagine that you had like a machine to imagine you had like chat GPT in your ear,

1 (55m 18s):
Right?

2 (55m 19s):
Nobody else did. And nobody knows how you're doing it. Right? I wouldn't say that he's that way. Now, the younger version of him was much more unusual. He would just spontaneously laugh in the middle of a sentence for no reason. It, it was just very clear that you weren't communicating with somebody who was with you in the room.

1 (55m 38s):
Whoa. Yeah. He seemed like the way he was sitting there grasping his hands and he seemed like very uncomfortable just to be around all these people.

2 (55m 49s):
I was at the University of Pennsylvania in like 1982 through 85. Okay. and I went to a lecture that he gave and he said things like, well,

9 (56m 3s):
'cause every school child in quantum field theorist knows.

2 (56m 6s):
Yeah. Just like spontaneously laughing for no reason.

9 (56m 9s):
The number of generations is tied to the index of an elliptic operator on a calab manifold.

2 (56m 16s):
And the guy next to me says, I've been a quantum filter theist for 40 years. I don't know any of this stuff. Whoa. Right? So he came onto the scene and started telling us how everything was gonna fit together. And nobody had ever heard a story like this. This is by the way, lost to history because we fictionalized what happened with string theory, this person was so far ahead that nobody wanted to contradict him. He said, this was the way, you know, there are five strength theories or whatever. There are six four and I can't remember and it's gonna be one of them. And in 10 years we'll have the whole thing wrapped up. And everybody wanted to be on the winning team knew that they weren't gonna go up against this because they couldn't even figure out how he was doing.

2 (57m 0s):
What he was doing. And what was really going on was very different than people understood. Quantum field theory, which is now claimed by most physicists to be the most advanced theory we have at the time, was sort of a grab bag of different techniques. You know, just like not unified. He saw that this was effectively a coherent hole with help from a couple of other people who are often not as well acknowledged. One of which would be Michael Atia, another, which would be Graham Siegel, another, which would be Dan Quillan and my good friend and postdoctoral advisor, Isadore Singer.

2 (57m 43s):
So it was sort of a small cabal of people who figured out that quantum field theory was not only a coherent story, it didn't really have to do with physics at all. It was like calculus. You can use calculus to do physics. In fact, you can't do physics without it. But you can also use calculus to optimize inventory and make, you know, make your profits go up. And so as a result, quantum field theory was discovered not to be physical. It was a framework that you, one physical input to that machine probably generates the world. But the machine itself isn't about physics. So this was the most romantic backfiring in the history of physics.

2 (58m 24s):
In a certain sense. These guys set out to say we are going to quantize gravity. In other words, quantize geometry, the geometry of Einstein in Riman. And what happened was exactly the reverse. They gravitated the quantum, they geometries the quantum. So it's been a remarkably productive, the reason we can say how brilliant this person is is because he geometries the quantum at a level that we didn't know was possible. On the other hand, he never made contact with physical reality the way he was expecting and promising to do. So. He's both the most accomplished of us and the person who drove physics the most off of the road. Mm. And if you attempt to give him his due and you don't, if you're not comfortable citing both of these things, you can't be an accurate historian.

2 (59m 9s):
But he's still running around and nobody wants to go up against him. How old is he now? He was born in 1951. So he'll be turning 72 I think later this year, if I'm not mistaken. Hmm. And then we get to the really crazy part, quantum gravity is really due to two families. One is a husband and wife team, and the other is father son. The husband and wife team were named Bryce dewitt, formerly I think Bryce Seligman don't know why he changed his name and his wife Cecile Dewitt or Cecile Dewitt Mort. And the father son team was Louis Whitten, who is still alive now, 101 years old.

2 (59m 51s):
And Edward Whitten. And then the really weird stuff happens, and this is why I was like curious about UFOs and gravity and all this stuff. The actual genesis of these two families having this outsized impact on the future of theoretical physics comes from two different people who are almost never talked about. Matter of fact, most physicists have no idea their names. One is named Agnew Bason and the other is named Roger Babson. And these two guys were deep into anti-gravity. So the world's greatest mind and greatest living theoretical physics mind is the son of the most prominent anti-gravity researcher.

2 (1h 0m 34s):
I swear I kid you not from the 1950s.

10 (1h 0m 40s):
Whoa.

2 (1h 0m 42s):
Whoa. Now there's an official story about this and the official story that both the duets tell and the witts tell is, oh yeah, there were these crazy people. They were very embarrassing. They were always focused on anti-gravity. But we were clever enough to defraud them of their money to do real gravitational research. Ha ha ha. They both said that both families, well they didn't use defraud, but that's kind of what they implied. That's correct. 'cause it's an embarrassment. And, and, and in order to understand this hugely productive period relative to the stagnation, the stagnation is incredibly high prestige.

2 (1h 1m 24s):
Like most of the positions at the, at the Institute for Advanced Study, the top physics department, ostensibly in the world, right? You had a director named Rob Robert Digraph string theorist. You had Edward Whitten, string theorist, Natty Seiberg, string theorist, Juan Mal Deena string theorist. And you had this guy Nima Arnie Hammed, who I hope you'll have on this program who's amazing, who is not a string theorist, but very string sympathetic. This thing dominated. It just took over. And this weird genesis of a high prestige field that kink accomplish what it's setting out to accomplish is in contrast to this mixed period between 1953 and 1973, where you have the world's most prestigious physicists paling around with pseudoscience, UFO type stuff, gravity, shielding, all this stuff.

2 (1h 2m 25s):
So Babson is so crazy, I I, you can't even believe the story is true, but he claims that his sister drowned in a pond because even though she was a good swimmer, she couldn't overcome gravity. So gravity becomes his sworn enemy. And he's gonna use his fortune that he's predicted from, that he's gotten from predicting the crash of 1929. Because of Newton's laws, what goes up must come down. So it gets outta the stock market Six months early, Babson makes a a fortune. He Edison and Clarence BirdEye of frozen food, you know, fame form this sort of little intellectual collective where they're gonna defeat gravity. So for example, just to, because people are gonna say, Eric, this is all nonsense and it isn't.

2 (1h 3m 8s):
Jamie, is it possible to pull up a stone monument at Tufts universities to the anti-gravity that was done there? So put in Tufts stone, anti-gravity, these, this guy littered universities all across the country with these monuments to prove that this anti-gravity stuff was actually taking place at American universities. And he established an essay contest. Alright, so check this out. This monument has been erected by the Gravity Research Foundation, Roger Babson founder, to remind students of the blessing of Forthcomings when science determines what gravity is and how it works and how it may be controlled, this is about UFOs and the idea that we are gonna harness the power of gravity, and we are going to get a supreme advantage.

2 (1h 3m 57s):
And these stones are littered around the country. Here's another one.

1 (1h 4m 5s):
So this is not widely known that this research is being done. This is

2 (1h 4m 8s):
Hugely embarrassing to us.

1 (1h 4m 10s):
Hugely embarrassing because it hasn't yielded results.

2 (1h 4m 13s):
No, hugely embarrassing because it carries the stench of pseudoscience. See, when people don't like me coming on your program and saying things that nobody else in the world is saying, they call me a pseudo scientist, or that's crackpot. And these words like you don't take them that seriously. We had, we had this discussion before with like Tim Dylan saying something about me. You know, what has he ever done? Academics play these games with each other where we try to push each other outta the ring, like sumo wrestlers, right? And the way you push somebody out is you say, well, that guy's a crack buddy. He's a grifter. Hmm. He's a pseudo scientist, right? He's nutty, he's a nutter bullshit. This was the marriage of the ultimate nuttiness with the highest prestige physics we know how to do.

2 (1h 4m 58s):
and it was this

1 (1h 4m 59s):
Considered nuttiness in 64, though

2 (1h 5m 1s):
This is the interesting question. In the middle of the 1950s, this is mainstream in newspapers, but for example, Bryce Dewitt. So here's how the two stories cross, okay? You start off with Babson and Bason, okay? They're, they're the money. Babson found something called the Gravity Research Foundation in New Boston, New Hampshire. And he gets the Glenn L. Martin Company, which is the precursor of Martin Marietta, precursor of Lockheed Martin. Do you know this stuff? No. Okay. And he gets them to hire Louis Whitten out of Johns Hopkins. Louis Whitten is a respectable physicist who takes the position and forms something called the Research Institute for Advanced Study.

2 (1h 5m 49s):
Now, you've probably heard of Bell Labs or Xerox Park, and you probably haven't heard of the Research Institute for Advanced Study. No. Yet this has illustrious names associated with it. Solomon Leches, the Great Topologist, comes out of retirement to work on this anti-gravity inspired project. Rudolph Rudolph Coleman of Coleman filtering, there's no shortage. Sheldon au, who discovers spontaneous symmetry breaking under Julian Schwer at Harvard, is attached to the Research Institute of Advanced Study. It has a, a campus in Baltimore, Maryland that, you know, I can tell you the address at some point.

2 (1h 6m 29s):
We pretend that it didn't happen and doesn't exist. But for example, if you were to look at Brown University, brown University has something called the Center for Non-Linear Dynamics. And the Center for Non-Linear Dynamics is the spin out from the Research Institute of Advanced Study of Solomon Leche, the Great Topologist work on non-linear, you know, like chaos, theoretic, dynamical systems. So it's this marriage of utter madness and kookiness with top door drawer, white shoe respectability. So this was my puzzle about UFOs. What was this anti-gravity thing between 53 and 73?

2 (1h 7m 12s):
And the reason it ends in 1973 is a guy named Mike Mansfield, I think of Montana as a senator, passes something called the the Mansfield Amendment, which discontinues army or Department of Defense military funding for blue sky research inside of our universities. And what is Blue sky research? Hey, you're a young person. You're super smart. Here's a pile of money. Don't even tell us what you're working on. We just believe in you go to it. This is what caused us to be the envy of the effing world. Cowboy science. We were wild, okay? We had skirt chasing, hard drinking, charismatic, brilliant human beings who answered to no one and walked around with swagger with their shoulders back and their chefs puff puffed out because around Sputnik, we wanted the best of the best to go into science.

2 (1h 8m 8s):
Around 1973, we discontinue this, we start talking about golden fleece awards. How did you waste the taxpayer's money? You know? And we become incapable of equaling the performances. Like we, we, we worship Ted Williams because nobody's turned into Ted Williams style performance in ages. Even Ed Whitten can't do it in any era. Before this, ed Whitten would won a Nobel Prize. The guy six months older than he is from 1951, is a guy named Frank Wilcheck who won the Nobel Prize. Even being a tiny bit young, older than Ed Whitten. You know, Frank is brilliant, but he's not Ed Whitten.

2 (1h 8m 50s):
Like he got a Nobel Prize for something called Asymptotic Freedom in, in strong interactions. This new found impotence, let's just call it impotence. It's like you turned the world's most vital people into Castrati. And you did it by accounting for their dollars, making them, you know, say how everything they did had a practical application defending the purpose of Blue Sky research, as if they were wasting taxpayer dollars. They've got called, called, you know, welfare queens and white lab codes. The whole thing is completely ridiculous. But we have been in the process of dismantling the world's most productive, powerful scientific enterprise from really 1965 or 73 till the present day and the 65 date dates from Ghislaine Maxwell's father Robert Maxwell is basically the son of a bitch who introduced peer review, which had only really been strong in the biomedical literature, inter general science, because he figured out how to make a fortune hacking the universities.

2 (1h 10m 1s):
If you're a university, if you wanna have a complete library, you have to buy all the journals that paper is appearing. So he said, great news, I'll jack up the prices and jack up the number of journals. I'll just explode the number of journals. And every university that doesn't want to be incomplete has to buy my product. So suddenly there weren't enough good editors to edit all of these tiny micro journals, you know, journal of Hyper-specific thing X. So peer review comes screaming in, in 1965 through his company, Maxwell's company called Pergamon Press. So Ghislaine s Maxwell's father is like the first major attack on science.

2 (1h 10m 46s):
And then the Mansfield Amendment comes in. There's something called the Eel Berg Amendment, 1973. In 1980, there's something called the Ole Amendment. Then there's the Immigration Act of 1990. And we're just chipping away at the vitality of American cowboy science. So right now, if you go into a science department, the whole question is, well, what have you done for diversity, inclusion, and equity? You know, let's agree that there's no lone geniuses in the world as if we didn't have Einstein and Von Neumann and Teller and all these people. Everything is communal, everything is in the air. It's like nobody wants to work in this environment, nobody good.

1 (1h 11m 20s):
Mm.

2 (1h 11m 20s):
Right? So whatever it is, we have been revitalizing certainly since 1973 for 50 years, but also really since 1965. How

1 (1h 11m 29s):
Do you turn that boat around though?

2 (1h 11m 31s):
We're doing whatever we can. Like, if you're rich and you're smart and you're connected, if you're part of some secret program and you're watching this, please reach out to The Joe, Rogan Experience or Eric Weinstein to turn the ship around. But let's keep going 'cause I wanna get to the UFOs again. Okay. So my question was, what is going on with anti-Gravity UFOs, the world's smartest human beings between 1953 and 73? Somebody help me out. Why two families? The duets and the wittens? And let me give you the reason that I didn't want touch this subject.

2 (1h 12m 11s):
The reason I didn't wanna touch the subject has to do with something I learned from World War ii. So you probably know, you know the code name for D-Day? No Operation Overlord. There was a companion thing called Operation Bodyguard. And in particular, operation Fortitude, which was inside of Operation Party Guard, which was the planned invasion of Norway, which was never gonna happen. But we faked an entire invasion of Norway because we had a troop buildup in England that was going to be headed into a very narrow place and was gonna be outgunned by the Germans. So how do you get all of these people have to fight, who have loose lips, probably going off and seeing prostitutes, who knows not to blow spill the beans on D-Day.

2 (1h 12m 59s):
Well, you create an entirely fake invasion of Norway. Is it possible to bring up Operation Fortitude just to see a map of this thing? So they faked radio chatter, they had inflatable tanks. I think there were army divisions that didn't exist. I was

11 (1h 13m 14s):
Looking at something, it didn't call it what you called it, but that it's the same stuff. Yeah, I think this is the map you're talking

2 (1h 13m 20s):
About. Well, that's, that's in, that's Northern France. Fortitude would be targeted on, I've

1 (1h 13m 25s):
Seen the inflated tanks. It's funny, right? I didn't know if that was what it was regards to.

2 (1h 13m 29s):
So deception and, and we talked about Kfab before. Yeah. Like I'm very focused on it. What I really care about.

1 (1h 13m 37s):
Look at that. That's hilarious. They had a bunch of inflatable tanks.

2 (1h 13m 42s):
So this entire deception had to be parallel. O overlord wouldn't have worked without fortitude. Now, if you assume that that's the basic paradigm, which is whenever we're gonna do something badass, we're also gonna do something fake. I thought the UFOs was the Operation Fortitude part of something real. This is my bad, I screwed up. Eric failed, blah, blah, blah. So

1 (1h 14m 11s):
You thought like at, at what point, like when the New York Times revealed they talked to people No, before that in the Pentagon, before that

2 (1h 14m 18s):
I thought, okay, you wanna develop the SR 71 Blackbird. You wanna develop the, the stealth bomber. You want a code, you wanna cover program. So you're gonna come up with like UFOs, somebody sees something in the air. Dude, there was like a flying triangle. Mm, I swear to God there was this thing that went so fast, I couldn't even believe it. Well, one of them's the BB two bomber. The other one is SR 71 Blackbird duh. Right? So why do I want to get involved with Operation Fortitude? I'm, I'm a patriotic American. If we're gonna lie about stuff and we're doing it for a good purpose, it's not hurting anybody. I don't wanna get involved and say, I'm so smart, I can figure it out. I don't want to be anywhere near that.

2 (1h 14m 59s):
Right? So that's what I assumed about UFOs and I goofed.

1 (1h 15m 3s):
So what do you think it is now?

2 (1h 15m 5s):
Well, that's the new question.

1 (1h 15m 8s):
And what made you shift this perspective?

2 (1h 15m 11s):
So there was this weird thing that happened where we announced through the New York Times that this stuff may be more real than anyone cared to imagine. You know? And Jeremy Corbell was releasing these videos and who was leaking them? I don't know. And the New York Times was authenticating and you know, you get all of this, again, tons of ambiguity. So everybody's decision tree blows out, nobody can think straight. But I thought, oh no, what if the old fineman stories that I've been following are actually about something rather than about a deception. So for example, Feynman has a story where he says, Hey, there was this guy who was giving physics lectures to aerospace engineers and they didn't like him.

2 (1h 15m 55s):
So I had to go out to Buffalo. I thought Buffalo, that's Curtis Wright, you're going to Curtis Wright Aerospace. And he's got another one about, you know, give me a dollar. Because somebody calls him up and says, give us the nuclear patents to like fission driven planes and crazy stuff. Feinman is constantly telling us the, the, he's got a story called, it's Greek to me where he shows up in North Carolina. I can't remember whether he's supposed to go to the University of North Carolina, chapel Hill or Greenville. And he has to figure it out. And he says, oh, I'm late to the conference.

2 (1h 16m 36s):
There would be a bunch of people mumbling the words. And the guy says, oh, it's Chapel Hill. So he goes there, it's a ha ha ha. It's a cute story about how Clever Feinman is, which they all are. But that was a conference sponsored by the Institute for Field Physics at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, sponsored by Agnew Bason through Bryce Dewitt, who is the person who repurposed the Gravity Research Foundation essay, which is only supposed to be about harnessing gravity, anti-gravity, anti-gravity devices like UFOs. And he said, well, if you really wanna get to anti-gravity, you have to do it through quantum gravity right now. He did that. And then a couple of people from the institute, and it was Arnold Witten Desser entered and won this competition that had the stench about it.

2 (1h 17m 22s):
'cause it was like stigmatized. You're gonna enter a competition for anti-gravity devices. Ha ha ha. Oppenheimer says, wow, you guys won this by using the name of the Institute for Advanced Study. You give the money back right now, we're not gonna touch pseudoscience. The guys kept the money and then the floodgates opened and Penrose entered it and Wilcheck entered it. Everybody and their mother, Martin Pearl entered this competition. Lots of Nobel laureates win it. This is this marriage of total bullshit and top drawer physics that the rest of us are not allowed to participate. So if you want a weird model for how physics works, think about diplomatic immunity. But in science, you've got this group of people at the top who are allowed to engage in quackery.

2 (1h 18m 8s):
They can hang out at Esson and smoke dope and take LSD and, and go into sensory deprivation tanks like, like Feynman. They can pal around with rich people who are talking about anti-gravity. But the rest of us have to stay in our lane. Well, that ends now, now that I've been contacted by people saying, Eric, you know, Sam Harris and I were both contacted saying that there's a disclosure planned and it's got, there's big updates and we need you to communicate this news to the world. There's

1 (1h 18m 44s):
Disclosure about a specific technology

2 (1h 18m 47s):
About something. I mean, more or less, the way this works, it doesn't matter who you talk to, is something's huge. I can't talk to you about it because you don't have clearance, but we're gonna fly out to Colorado Springs and we're gonna show you some stuff and you're never gonna be the same. Right? Like, okay, I'm on standby. My process, Joe, is that I'm very open-minded, but I have a very strong filter before I'll say, yeah, that's true. That's real. Okay. That freaks people out. I was like, why are you even talking to these people? Well, because I know the history and you don't, so I was open to this. Sam was open to this and it's Lucy in the football every goddamn week.

2 (1h 19m 30s):
When am I, when am I headed out to Colorado? Oh, you're gonna be met by a car and you're gonna be blindfolded and you won't know where you are. and I like, blah, blah, blah. Okay, this week, next week, the week af Oh no, if something's come up on the hill, things getting crazy. We're gonna be talking to some very big people. I can't talk to you right? Yet. So that's been my weird life. Now, a, a part of it for like three years, I don't know how long for three years

1 (1h 19m 53s):
They've been telling you that they're gonna release this.

2 (1h 19m 55s):
Well, yeah, and it, and it, it's always pushed out, right? So like, it's, it's a ana program, okay? It's always Ana and I'm not falling for it. But I'm telling you now that I, I have information. I can't tell you everything I know I wish I could, but I, I'm a team player and if somebody says something in confidence, I'm not going to reveal it on The Joe, Rogan Experience, okay? But there's some things I can say that nobody else can say, which is, I had a very weird reaction to this. I think Sam was initially interested and then they, they ed him three times and he said, I'm out, doesn't talk about it.

2 (1h 20m 36s):
I went a different route. and I said, okay, you guys keep saying all this stuff is real. You keep saying you've got high quality data that you can't show anybody because it's all stove pipe. You hear this word over and over. Stovepipe meaning that each little group is isolated. Like Bob Lazar says, yeah, I, I was only allowed to see this little thing. So I say, okay, am I right that you're telling me that these things are real? Yeah. And then, then they say, and that nobody could do this, that we know of. I said, that's right, because they seem to de defy the laws of physics. You hear this phrase over and again, yeah. Defy the laws of physics. I said, great. I need to talk to somebody who speaks physics. How do you know they defy physical law?

2 (1h 21m 17s):
Well, we can see that they, it's like, okay, if they defy physical law, then there should be a physicist to tell me that they defy physical law. Who's seen the data? Maybe he can't release it to me or she, but tell me somebody who speaks tensor analysis, tell me somebody who knows what the dur rock equation is like a pretty low bar for a physicist. There is no one, and I don't quite mean no one, but do you know who Eric W Davis is? No. You ever heard of the Wilson memo? No. Okay. There's something called the Wilson Memo where there's a physicist who meets an a general or an admiral. And the general of the admiral is trying to figure out, I think this is at EEG and G, why is there some program that I'm not allowed to know about?

2 (1h 22m 6s):
I have the highest clearances, I have a need to know. Like, sorry, we can't tell you. He's talking to somebody named Eric w Davis. Eric w Davis so far as I can find is the only person other than maybe Hal put off who I've been able to talk to who speaks anything of these languages. This is not a particularly famous physicist. Hal put off is an electrical engineer, I think a PhD in electrical engineering. Eric w Davis says to me, I said, is, is there nobody out here who speaks physics? This doesn't make any sense. And he says, well, you, Hal and I are the three most technical people on this.

2 (1h 22m 48s):
Joe, I'm not even on this.

1 (1h 22m 51s):
So you know as much about it as anyone and you're not even involved. And there's only two other people that know the science climate

2 (1h 22m 59s):
And, and like one of them is into remote viewing and, and, and was a Scientologist. So I, I'm just imagine that you take your wife to the symphony, okay? And you're gonna see Beethoven seventh and you look at the string section, brass section's in place and that percussion is there. And you look at the string section and it's a bunch of certified public accountants. You know, like where are the violins, where are the violas? Like, oh, oh no actually that we, we have reporters for the ap, they're stringers. Like that's not the same thing. We have string theorists. That's not the same thing I'm looking for vi like this is simple, right?

2 (1h 23m 40s):
I've been on this for three years and I can't find anybody who speaks this language, which now that is a huge clue. Imagine that you say that we've lost control of our airspace. We're being menaced threats to civilian aviation, military aviation. They're seeing these things every day. They defy the physical laws and they're no physicists anywhere to be found that smells like BSS or it smells like a pathological level of bureaucratic incompetence. And Marco Rubio and, and Kirsten Giland, if you're out there, can you please find out why there are no technically competent people on an area, on an area of national security?

2 (1h 24m 21s):
And please don't mumble the word stovepipe or need to know or sources and methods. I mean, we had a Manhattan project, we staffed it with physicists. You have a physics problem if these things are here, Joe, they're here from so far out of town or they're co-mingling with us on earth. I can't tell you which, there are some reports that these things come screaming in from behind our satellites that are trained at earth along non ballistic trajectories. I have no idea how to say this. I'm, I'm talking all the time to Avi Loeb. I with the Galileo project trying to help him out. He needs funding and he needs some ability to, you know, just if the government won't play ball, he's gonna put out his own sensors in places like Catalina Island blanket the world and he'll be able to say, we we're seeing these things or we're not seeing these things.

2 (1h 25m 10s):
But right now we have a puzzle that our government won't release information to its own scientific community. and it reminds me of you. You probably know airplane movie. Yeah, well there's this point I

1 (1h 25m 21s):
See Jive.

2 (1h 25m 21s):
Well there's this point where they're trying to land this airplane with these people who aren't pilots and it says turn on the turn on the landing strip lights and it was Lloyd Bridges or something. He says, no, that's just what they'll be expecting. Like he's trying to sabotage the people who are trying to land the plane. It doesn't make any sense. We're sabotaging our own scientists.

1 (1h 25m 41s):
Do you think this is because there's a level of secrecy that's attached to this technology and they've compartmentalized themselves to death and they've gotten themselves to a point where they don't know how to proceed further because they're preventing people from sharing information. Which is one of the most important things about science, right? Is that scientists get to share information and all work together to try to figure out what the problem is, right? Is that a reasonable,

2 (1h 26m 10s):
Well here comes the decision trees. Like I wish I could say, yeah, that's what I think it is,

1 (1h 26m 14s):
Right? but it might not be.

2 (1h 26m 15s):
So one possibility is, let's be honest, if you are faking UFOs, the last people you want are the world's most brilliant physicists. You give them the data, they're gonna say, right? Oh look, I see what you did. You put a couple of flashlights with lasers into the sky and you can move them really quickly by the angle. And that creates the illusion to something is zipping through the world. Hmm. Right? If you are faking UFOs, if you're faking AUFO orgasm, the last thing you want is theoretical physicists on the case. So that would be one reason to clear them out. Another reason would be bureaucracy. You've got these rival groups, they're all starved from money.

2 (1h 26m 54s):
Nobody wants to invite somebody smarter than they are. So the problem with AB level and C level players is that they're looking for DNF players so that they're not threatened. That's another possibility. A different possibility is that we do have a Manhattan project and we don't know about it. So for example, we have a Manhattan project for decoding cryptographic messages and it's called the National Security Agency NSA. and it used to be called no such agency because we wanted to deny its existence, but now we know it's got a giant building. How do you know that it exists if nobody told you? Well, you'd look at the number of number theory PhDs and people who specialize in things like elliptic curves.

2 (1h 27m 35s):
And you would notice that a giant number of them after their PhDs disappear and you'd track to see, well where do those people live? Where do those names live? Oh, they live in Virginia. Okay, so you'd start to get an idea. Now in the case of UFOs, if there was an anti-gravity project, which is, I hate, it's like it's painful for me to even say these words. Really what it would be is a post einsteinian physics project. If you had a post einsteinian physics project, you would want three subspecialties for sure. That would be differential geometry, which is the basis for originally general relativity in 19 76, 75, 2 guys named C Yang and Jim Simons, who Jim Simons becomes the world's greatest hedge fund manager.

2 (1h 28m 30s):
Figure out that quantum field theory is also based on geometry, but it's a different version of differential geometry. So that's one specialty that you would want. Second specialty that you would want would be particle theory or high energy physics, however you wanna say that. The third specialty you'd want is general relativity. So if you wanted to detect whether we had a secret Manhattan project, but it wasn't identifiable by a building because we didn't announce its existence, you'd say, is there anything that eats those three specialties unless you believe that there's a secret university system? Because we have lists of everybody who gets produced with a PhD in these fields.

2 (1h 29m 12s):
If that was the case, the two places that you would have a secret place would be Austin, which is the successor to the Institute for Field Physics at the University of Texas, Austin Gravitational Group G General Relativistic Group, which has had John Archibald Wheeler, Steven Weinberg, Bryce Dewitt. This is a powerhouse of a place that you happen to live in. And you should have these people who are the, the successors to these people on, because most of these people have died. But the more spectacular place would be Uck at Long Island.

2 (1h 29m 52s):
The State University of New York at Stony Brook has an astounding collection of monster minds. And it's not highly regarded as a university. I mean it's a, it's, it's strong, but you would have no idea how strong this place is. It's got multiple fields, medalists, it's got an institute called the in, what is it? The Center for Geometry, Simon Center for Geometry and Physics. Cen Yang, who's ar arguably the greatest living theoretical physicist is at this university. He's 101 years old. So he's, he's pretty much on his way out.

2 (1h 30m 32s):
But this is where he's called home and it's not advertised as the powerhouse that it is. So shout out to the state University of New York at Stony Brook. If I was gonna locate a Manhattan Project in plain sight and get us news and world to report this as a minor player in in research, that's where I'd go. But more importantly, and this is the really weird thing, and I, again, I don't wanna spread this as a rumor, but I am saying this, if you wanted to imagine that there was, that the government wasn't incompetent and we actually had great people on this project. My friend and advisor who's now died, Isadore Singer once said to me, he said, the world's greatest mathematics and physics department is Renaissance Technologies.

2 (1h 31m 23s):
and I said, what didn't make any sense to me, it's great people, but it's a hedge fund. Okay? So you've got this weird thing where you've got three basic institutions that are very closely intertwined. You've got Brookhaven National Laboratory, you've got State University of New York at Stony Brook, a mid-level university with an out of this world math and physics program. And you've got a hedge fund that makes more money than anybody can possibly imagine. Like there is no there. There used to be four fortunes in hedge funds that didn't make any sense.

2 (1h 32m 5s):
One was De Shaw, one was Bernie Madoff, one was Jeff Epstein and one was Renaissance Technologies. Whoa. and I guessed that Bernie Madoff was front, had a legitimate business and an illegitimate business. And he was front running the legitimate business with his illegitimate business. So he was effectively stealing from his own clients in two separate division. In one division. One, one was the theft, one was the Es, I got that wrong. He was just running a Ponzi scheme. So shame on me. But I was giving talks about, you know, there's BlackRock and Blackstone as investment groups and I was going around in the early two thousands talking about black arts capital.

2 (1h 32m 49s):
and I would give talks on black arts capital, we'd tell you what we're doing, but we'd have to kill you. And that was a reference to Madoff and Epstein because Epstein's fortune made no sense, right? Renaissance has existed in its medallion fund for decades, has turned in a performance, never seen by anything else remotely, effectively, just a money printing machine. No one knows how it works. I've met with Jim Simons one-on-one for three hours and because his wife is an economist, my wife is an economist, I'm a differential geometer, he's a differential geometer. I gave him this entire theory that all of modern neoclassical economics is actually differential geometric.

2 (1h 33m 35s):
And he, three hours later, he's been chain smoking, he smokes like a chimney, never wears socks. Very eccentric guy, brilliant as the day is long, still alive. Go get him for a a guest. He says, well Eric, that's brilliant. If you knew what we were actually doing, you'd be very disappointed. He said, I never thought of this. Now a little while later, I dunno if you know who Brian Keating is, he's a professor at UCSD, he's an experimentalist. Jim is basically his uncle. And he calls me out to Santa Barbara and Jim is having dinner at his his brother's house. And what you guys don't know about Jim Simons is that with a guy named SS Churn, he came up with something called the Churn Simons function or churn Simons functional, where if you differentiate this thing, the way you differentiate the Einstein Hilbert functional, you get an equation that looks very similar to the Einstein field equation for gravity only.

2 (1h 34m 36s):
It looks a lot more like particle theory. So I told Jim, I said, I don't know if you know this or you don't know this, but I think you're sitting on top of a piece of the puzzle that supersedes general relativity. And on the spot he asked me whether I wanted to come out to the state University of Stone of New York and Stony Brook for a year to work on this. We had like a very technical conversation. Jim Simons is potentially, I mean beyond brilliant, but also has a claim on a part of what I believe is going to supersede general relativity by imitating the Einstein Hilbert action from which the Einstein field equations are derived.

2 (1h 35m 21s):
This thing generates something which you would call the, the churn Simon's equation. Ed Whitten gets the fields metal for quantizing, this thing that looks like gravity but is actually sort of particle theoretic and I, I, I can't get into it because we, we don't have the common language to do it. This is huge stuff. What's going on at Stony Brook? What has happened is Stony Brook is ground zero for the explosion in mathematical physics that came through something called the Woo Yang dictionary, where suddenly the quantum became as geometric as general relativity, then it got more geometric through something called geometric quantization. Then it got more geometric through something called geometric quantum field theory or topological quantum field theory or conformal quantum field theory.

2 (1h 36m 8s):
I don't know whether aut is the locust. Can you bring up the iconic wall picture of the iconic wall? This is like a religious artifact. Let

1 (1h 36m 20s):
Me pee. Hold, hold this right here. Let's, let's hold right here with this. We'll bring that up. We'll be right back. We're back. We're up. Okay, so Jamie, what was this thing that you were pulling up?

13 (1h 36m 33s):
We have a picture here of the iconic wall at Stony Brook. It's a little hard to see in the picture. So that is what is on it.

2 (1h 36m 42s):
Okay, so this is like imagine ancient Egypt Egyptian ruins and like the most crazy First of all. I would correct this thing in a million different ways. But you see the Atia singer index theorem equation for the curvature tensor Maxwell's equations in geometric form written out in differential form equations for string theory. This thing E eight, the 248 largest simple lee group in the world. This is like almost a religious pilgrimage site.

1 (1h 37m 18s):
What's wrong with that? That you would correct? You wanna

2 (1h 37m 21s):
Put it

1 (1h 37m 21s):
Up? Yeah.

2 (1h 37m 28s):
Da star of fa at the bottom of the ellipse equals zero is only the vacuum equations. I would put in a term called J. The above that you see Dimm curr D, this is the Atia singer, remember is Isadore singer. That thing should be expanded to something called the Attia Petto Singer index Theorem from manifolds with boundary above that you see the Drac equation ID slash minus M times sci equals zero. Actually if I'm correct, it should be a hybrid between the Rita Schwer and the Drac equations based on a three complex tensed with a spinner.

2 (1h 38m 10s):
The above that you have a non relativistic equation, which is the Schrodinger equation because there's only one derivative in terms of T, but there's that noble, that triangle squared, which is different in terms of space. So you can't treat space in time asymmetrically above that you have the Einstein field equations, RM U new minus one half R times gen new. There should be a cosmological constant in there, which is missing to the right. You have the E eight diagram should be the tits freudenthal magic square. So I don't know whether this is like a straussian communication in the sense that if you're smart enough, you should know that there are tons of errors, limitations in bad choices.

2 (1h 38m 51s):
I would not write out the Maxwell above that. You've got these Nala b nala e equals zero. What's the

1 (1h 38m 58s):
Other possibility in terms of these errors?

2 (1h 39m 1s):
Somebody hired somebody to do something impressionistic and it got too far in the process carving Indiana limestone before they figured out that you should really do this better. But it's, this is gorgeous and it, it's the only place in the world. This is my language, Joe, right? This if you ask like what language does Eric speak and why does he act weird on when he comes on my show? This is my native language and it's beautiful peace, I mean beyond,

1 (1h 39m 27s):
It's really wild

2 (1h 39m 28s):
And, and it costs a fortune. And this is Jim Simon's money at work and you need to know Jim. Okay? I mean, so my question is, Is there some, do we have a project? If it's not, if we're not doing something in Pawtucket or we're not doing something at the University of Texas at Austin, I'm worried we're not doing something anywhere. I went to the Institute for Advanced Study to visit friend acquaintance Nemar Ani Hammed, who I think very, very highly of. He said some pretty wild things and should be on the show.

2 (1h 40m 9s):
He's the most bizarre thing in that he's an unbelievable salesman showman who's pathologically honest in a weird way. So that's very unusual characteristics. He made the point, he said the kasmir effect is an example of negative energy, negative like negative mass energy where you take two plates that are so close together that the quantum waves, many of the frequencies can't fit between these two plates. And so the pressure outside of them is not counterbalanced by pressure between them. So they get forced together when they're very, very close. And his point is, that's an example of actual negative mass, negative energy, where we pretend that that's not true. He says Geckos actually use this when they climb up a wall, they use the Kasmir effect.

2 (1h 40m 54s):
So it's real. Now the question, can you harness it? This is always the, you know, you've got UFOs, people who try to think about how you could get physics to do these things, focus on the Casre effect, or they'll focus on negative energy solutions. Now if you look at that 1957 conference at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, one of the most eminent mathematician physicists guy who was first Wrangler Cambridge was a guy named Herman Bondy, an Austrian I think mathematician. And his paper is about negative mass in general relativity. Now, I dunno if you've ever heard of this stuff. No. If you have two masses in general, they always attract each other gravitationally.

2 (1h 41m 36s):
But what if somehow you had a different kind of mass that was negative, just like you could have negative and positive charges? Well, weirdly, you change two things. You change the force law F equals ma, and you change the gravitational law G, you know f equals GM first mass times second mass over R squared. So when you change both of those, oddly the negative mass is still attracted just the same way to the positive mass as if it, there was no difference. But the positive mass is always repelled. So you get this weird solution where the negative mass chases the positive mass and they go off to like, you know, unbounded acceleration.

2 (1h 42m 17s):
So Bondi was thinking about why is it that we've got these artificial conditions in general relativity, which we impose by hand. They're not the same beautiful marble that Einstein used for his field equations, but we throw some extra crappy stuff in called positivity conditions to stop general relativity from giving us madness. So Bondi started asking the question, maybe we shouldn't, maybe what you think of as madness has meaning, and this is why this, this conference, which is a confluence of the two families, the Whittens and the duets with Feynman and Wheeler and all of these unbelievable characters in attendance, is this pivotal, strange experience is that people are smoking the ganja on extending general relativity to places that it's never been extended.

2 (1h 43m 10s):
And the highbrow version of this doesn't work. And the lowbrow version of this doesn't work so far as we know. The lowbrow version is called Pseudoscientific, Anti-Gravity, gravity shielding Electrogravitics GR dynamics. The highbrow version of this is called quantum gravity and all the most respectable people are in it and it doesn't work. And you can't say, why are we doing this? If it doesn't work, why can't I say Ed Whitten's great, but he made a terrible blunder. David Gross, should David Gross and Ed Whitten should be in front of the community explaining why did you take all the smartest people, all the resources, all the attention, Mico Kaku get Mico Kako in here with me.

2 (1h 43m 56s):
Mico Kaku is out of control. Sean Carroll is covering up for this as well.

14 (1h 44m 3s):
In what way?

2 (1h 44m 4s):
They're too kind. Brian Green. Like I had this interchange with Brian Green where I said, you know,

14 (1h 44m 11s):
W we're

2 (1h 44m 14s):
Not being honest about the failure of string theory. And Brian was like, oh, well maybe we were a little bit exuberant and I, I blurt out Institute for Arts and Ideas. I blurred out,

14 (1h 44m 26s):
That's

2 (1h 44m 26s):
Like saying Meli, my me lie was irrational exuberance. No, you put a lot of people's careers in the in the shredder in order to have this quantum gravity experiment, which is like, you know, the people bowing and preying to this thing that doesn't work, the dog doesn't hunt. And anybody who questions it as a crackpot, I'm done with this. Joe. Like you wanna come at me and say Eric doesn't know what he's talking about. I'm debating physicists. I'll debate anybody with the possible exception of Ed Whitten who still scares me, but I'll probably debate him too. In open forum, we have got to purge the physics community of its quackery.

2 (1h 45m 7s):
And the quackery is coming from the high prestige version of this, the high prestige version of anti-gravity is called quantum gravity and it just doesn't work. So to get back to the UFOs, why is this stuff important? One, I don't know, four years, five years ago, and I was doing this riff on the twin nuclei problem. I said, we've gotta get off this planet. I said, we've now become God's, but for the wisdom and I just threw it off. And you said, focus on that. That's a great saying. Turned out to work That came true. The Covid in your lungs probably came outta the Wuhan Institute of Virology and we're lying about it.

2 (1h 45m 48s):
That is engineering the nucleus of the cell, the nucleic acids that we found the structure of in their function. Right now we are screwing around with Vladimir Putin with nukes, pretending that the sacred borders of Ukraine, which have been fluctuating for centuries are somehow sacrosanct. And yes, it's terrible that he's invaded and I do think that the borders shouldn't move. But we really shouldn't have been antagonizing Russia by pretending that there's no concept of a sphere of influence. Because I'll tell you, when somebody puts nukes on our border with Mexico in Monterey or Baja California, we're gonna be plenty upset.

2 (1h 46m 29s):
We now need to leave. and I tried to say that kind of a little bit light tongue in cheek, everything's accelerated. Think about our water having broken in the last three years. This is our womb. It's time to go. And in order to have any hope of getting off this planet, you can't leave it to Elon and chemical rockets. Can you imagine that Elon and I do not meet ever? It's like we know a million people in common. He knows that I'm focused on getting off this planet. He's got a chemical rocket company. He's exactly right about almost everything that he's saying up until he gets to the Moon in Mars and like who caress? You're not gonna terraform the Moon and Mars in the next three years or 30.

2 (1h 47m 15s):
The only way to really get off this planet is to leave the solar system because those are the only two rocks that are even halfway viable. And if you think about how far away everything is, we've got this thing that I call the Einstein moat. The nearest star. If we took a human traveling at the top speed a human has ever gone at, I think is a hundred thousand years away at that top speed. So you can fantasize, but oh yeah, we just come up with huge ships and people have multi-generational experience. All of Jewish history is 5,000 years and you're talking about a hundred thousand years. No way you're gonna do this on a ship frame. Imagine wars on a ship. Exactly. And then you have this next problem, which is, oh, we're gonna use time dilation.

2 (1h 47m 56s):
No, no, we're gonna use wormholes. It's like, yeah, and we're gonna bring nunchucks and throwing stars and we're gonna be like fucking awesome dude. Right? So it's like all these sort of weird edgy stuff inside. Here's what's really happening. We do not live in space time. This place is not in space time. There's a saying, the map is not the territory space time is a map, but the territory is wherever we actually live. And space time has so many limitations on it that Newton never placed. So the longer we stay with no advancement in the general theory of relativity, the more we feel that we are imprisoned here. We're not going anywhere.

2 (1h 48m 36s):
It's all sci-fi, it's all garbage. It's it's children talking about things that aren't true. Well bullshit. Every time you fundamentally push physical theory, you better figure out whether you've got a new neutron or worse or better. You're gonna get a lever. Now my claim, and so everything I've said up until now has been idiosyncratic research, but you can check it online. None of this is something you can't check. I'm now gonna put on a different hat when you ask me about you Eric, because people are gonna say, crank crazy, whatever, I'll meet you on the field of battle. Cut the crap people.

2 (1h 49m 17s):
I am a post einsteinian person. I have not been in a relativistic context for years. And the reason that you get to leave relativity is that you recover relativity from another theory. If you have a theory that includes relativity, you can say, okay, yeah, I know how to see relativity inside the theory, but I can also see other stuff beyond it. And so that's where I work some place called geometric unity because the geometry underneath the standard model and the geometry underneath general relativity is two different geometries called Ian and Aian. I combined them. That was the point of it. In this thing, there's a very clear idea about how you would go about traveling great distances.

2 (1h 49m 59s):
And so I found that you still have this thing from the last time. Yeah, I was here two years ago. So this is a model of a space time metric. And if you think about where these hair ties are on the two rulers, so this is the angle between, for people

1 (1h 50m 13s):
Just listening, there's an adjustable ruler with a a sphere or a

2 (1h 50m 17s):
Circle rather. So two, two rulers coming out of a protractor and you can change the angle of the ruler. So whatever I choose this to be is 90 degrees. If I do it like this, that's still 90 degrees or this, that's what a einsteinian metric is. This hair tie that I can move up and down is gonna be the time measurement, like a watch. Did you ever see when I gave Lex my watch? No, no. So you gave Lex a watch and I started talking about multiple time dimensions. So I gave him my Fitbit. Anyway, if you want to go a very long distance, one possibility is is that you do something very energetically expensive. But the other possibility is grow the ruler to shrink the distance.

2 (1h 50m 58s):
If the rulers and protractors that Einstein used and he chose one through his equation are instead variables and you have a full access to them. If I wanted to go a very long distance, the first thing I'd do is grow the ruler to shrink the distance, then go the distance under that ruler and then I'd shrink the ruler back. So when you talk about things like, oh, these things are behaving like nothing I've ever seen. Well, there are a couple things that I'm worried about if these things are real. One is, does somebody else know how to grow rulers and shrink rulers and grow watches and shrink watches, speed them up, slow them down in order to get in control of the thing that we thought was space time.

2 (1h 51m 43s):
The next issue is are there multiple temporal dimensions? So Eric, your friend who's had too much coffee believes that they're either six or four extra temporal dimensions and whatever isn't temporal is spatial. So it's either four plus six or six plus four extra dimensions split between time and space. If that's true, try to imagine extra dimensional engineers who have full access to something where there's no arrow of time. The only time there's an arrow of time is if time is one dimensional. If time is two dimensional, you have a whirlpool of time, which is either clockwise or counterclockwise.

2 (1h 52m 29s):
If it's three dimensional, you have a right hand rule of time and there's a left hand rule of time. These are called orientations. My belief is that we may be looking at something that has access to either four or six additional dimensions and I, again, I'm reading this off of a page of equations and notes. And so you know what they mean in physical reality. In other words, if this thing on the page is true, holy shit. On the other hand, if it's just some GE geometry, then you, you don't worry about it. You say, okay, well extra dimensions, I can think in 17 or three or what doesn't matter. It's not that hard to think in higher dimensions Spatially for people who do what I do, almost none of us can think in multiple temporal dimensions.

2 (1h 53m 14s):
There's one guy at in Los Angeles at USC called Yak bars, a Turkish Jew who keeps talking about two time physics and I've spoken to him. But multiple temporal dimensions would be a decisive game changer in terms of changing everything that we know about the world. And

1 (1h 53m 32s):
What would be the technology that someone could use to access that

2 (1h 53m 36s):
Because Well,

1 (1h 53m 37s):
That's the big thing.

2 (1h 53m 39s):
I know, I know, I know. You think about it, you're, you and I are both old enough to remember cassette tapes and vinyl albums on a cassette tape. You've played your favorite album all the way through like Dark Side of the Moon and you wanna play it again. You have to rewind through every song you just played and you hear, right? But that doesn't happen on an album. Towards the end of the turntable time, you would just, the stylist would pick up and it would skip over all the stuff that you didn't want to hear again. and it would go back to some track that you did. Imagine you could do that with time.

2 (1h 54m 19s):
You didn't have to go back through time to go back in time. Do I even know what I mean? Not, not really. I'm sort of at the edge of where I can actually say things. But you see all of physics proceeds from the time, from the assumption that time is one dimensional. We have this thing called deterministic propagation. So if you take quantum mechanics, there are really two rules. One is completely deterministic with no probability theory. You've got a system, you know its initial conditions and you say, if I know the laws of physics, I should be able to figure out where this is. You know, I take this lighter and I throw it up and I catch it. and it described a parabel. Okay? Initial condition propagation.

2 (1h 55m 1s):
I measure it. It's completely determined by the point of release. In quantum mechanics, you have the second thing called quantum measurement. And that is this weird probabilistic thing that nobody understands. Everybody says if you, if you think You don understand the quantum, you don't understand it. It's mind blowing, blah, blah, blah. But the first part of it is where we're trying to fit gravity. And when we quantize it, I don't think gravity goes in that slot. I think that what you do is You don't quantize gravity. You harmonize gravity. Gravity is the observer. We say, well, when you make an observation, well, who's doing the observation? Is Joe doing the observation? Is Jamie doing the observation? Who's doing this observation? Who has the right to use the second rule for collapsing the state vector with Schrodinger's cat and all entanglement weirdness?

2 (1h 55m 49s):
Well, I think it's gravity. I think that part of the story is, is that gravity is the observer through something called a pullback operation. And when you realize that, you realize that You don't naively quantize gravity the way you qua quantize everything else. In fact, gravity is the only field living on the successor to space time. If I'm correct, there are two spaces called X and Y. All the cool stuff in here. The the electrons, the quarks that make up everything that you and I are, is living on Y except for the metric, the rulers and the protractors, which lives on X, which is how you keep gravity separate. And the unification is the unification of these two things in a structure called a bundle.

2 (1h 56m 32s):
Now people will go over this and I'm sure professors will say, well this is what Eric was saying. Well, he's full of shit. No, no, no. He is actually making a point this story about space time engineering, where you don't use the Einstein field equations because you're using the successor theory rather than in the Einstein theory, the entire planet was pulling on you when you needed to go pee and your legs, I mean obviously buff your fit, you just pulled against an entire planet to get outta your chair and you won. That's how weak gravity is. That's how space and time is barely bent by all of earth.

2 (1h 57m 12s):
Now you're gonna tell me about an alcu warp drive where, okay, no, here's what's going on. The ship is inside of this little bubble of warping. No, it isn't. If somebody's space time engineering and they can get here from very far away, they're not using general relativity in the standard model, my friends, they're using a successor theory and we have become pussies. We are not going to look at successor theories because we've all learned the lesson that everybody who tries to bet against the standard model loses everybody who betts against general relativity loses. And this is that speech that Morpheus has to give. Like, I'm not gonna lie to you Neo, everyone who's ever faced an agent who stood his ground, you know, has died.

2 (1h 57m 55s):
It's like, okay, tough shit. Now it's time. Are, are we Americans, are we scientists? Are we cowboys or are you know, please tell me we're Travis Pastrana and and not some sort of diversity, equity and inclusion committee. How is it that we move forward? Well, we take the ultimate risk and what do we do it with our credibility? Watch my Wikipedia entry as I try to do this.

1 (1h 58m 20s):
Well, what do you think they're using in terms of a technology to achieve these results? And do you think that this is being examined and this is being researched here on earth? Or do You don know think we are being visited?

2 (1h 58m 34s):
I don't know, but I know that if I were the federal government, if I was the Department of Energy and if I were darpa and if I were any of these people and somebody went on The Joe Rogan Experience with millions of viewers and listeners and started talking like this, I would call them up. One of the last times I went on, not the last time, but the time before that, the FBI called me immediate. You laugh,

1 (1h 59m 0s):
It's

2 (1h 59m 1s):
Hilarious. It's not that funny.

1 (1h 59m 5s):
Not to you. I bet it was to the FBI Eric. Well, Eric Eric watch Eric Weinstein Eric shit his pants. Well,

2 (1h 59m 11s):
Okay, why do you have the Department of Energy call me? I mean, well

1 (1h 59m 16s):
What did they talk to you about?

2 (1h 59m 18s):
We're concerned about some of the stuff you were saying. I think they thought I sounded revolutionary. Like it's time for heads on pikes. Like Oh,

1 (1h 59m 29s):
That Oh yeah.

2 (1h 59m 31s):
Right. Because like tulsi would put heads on pike, you know, because tulsi is like, like ly imp impaler. She's gonna be going around with a, you know, chainsaw actually cutting people's heads up.

1 (1h 59m 42s):
She probably should phrase it differently. Oh,

2 (1h 59m 44s):
Stop stuff heads pipes you is a bit

1 (1h 59m 46s):
Problematic.

2 (1h 59m 48s):
You, you say in in MMA, that guy's a straight up killer. He's an assassin. Yes. You don't get a call from the FBI. No,

1 (1h 59m 54s):
That's true, that's true. But that is actually a compliment. If you use that for aren

2 (2h 0m 0s):
Blankfield in any, in any event, I get occasionally called by somebody from inside and what I think they're doing First of all one, we may be faking AUFO situation for reasons that I don't understand.

1 (2h 0m 14s):
If we are faking AUFO situation, do you think that there's technology that's available to people in the United States that is beyond our current understanding of what's possible?

2 (2h 0m 27s):
90%? No,

1 (2h 0m 28s):
90%? No. Wow.

2 (2h 0m 31s):
Because it's very hard. It's very hard to imagine physicists continuing to work on nothing for their entire careers. The number of people who are gonna be retiring shortly, having never actually done physics as a physicist, we're talking about wasted lives. People are going to be very weird when they realize that they blew their entire career. And I believe I can say what many of these problems are, and if you wanna humiliate me at a leading university, just ask me to talk. You can put it on video. You don't realize how many things the standard model has subtly wrong when we explain it to people, it's not that the legian is wrong, not that the rules are wrong, but we say wrong stuff.

2 (2h 1m 14s):
We say like there are three generations that are only of matter, that are only distinguished by mass. In other words, there's three copies of this stuff here. This is like the wood version, and then there's the plastic version, and then there's the metal version. There aren't three. There are two generations plus an extra imposter generation, which looks like a generation. I mean, I can get into these things and that should be a provocation. Somebody says, let's call this guy up, have him out and fi figure out what he's talking about. It doesn't matter. I don't think we're doing physics.

1 (2h 1m 43s):
What do you think they're doing?

2 (2h 1m 45s):
I think we are playing paintball rather than going to war. And we're giving prizes for generals who command the command, the best paintball army. And then we're referencing everyone else who's actually trying to figure out how to fight to, well have you submitted to the paintball competition? It's like, no, I don't want to do paintball. I understand that. It, it keeps your skills up. I understand that some of them are transferrable, but I I mean like you've been in street fights

1 (2h 2m 13s):
Not since I was a

2 (2h 2m 14s):
Teenager. Yeah. Well I understand. Like I haven't been for a long time. It's different than what you guys do in Brazilian jiujitsu. There's lots of stuff you're not allowed to do.

1 (2h 2m 24s):
Yeah, right.

2 (2h 2m 25s):
You get in a street fight, it's a completely different thing. Sure. What we're doing is not physics in the same sense.

1 (2h 2m 33s):
So what they're doing is they're

2 (2h 2m 37s):
We're doing exercise. Yeah, exactly. They're exercising and, and, and the exercises are keeping people limber. They're keeping people in a fighting mentality. It's not, it's not that Brazilian juujitsu has nothing to do with fighting. We've seen people use it in the street for sure. Right? But small joint manipulation is part of street fighting. Eye gouging is part of street fighting. Pulling a knife is part of street fighting. These things are not part of any reputable gym that you might go to. So I wanna do the thing that isn't paintball and I didn't want to do it up until recently because the danger of unleashing a neutrino, a neutron in the world is so high.

2 (2h 3m 17s):
Now I realize I'm done with that. You guys are willing to play footsies with Putin. You're not gonna survive, you're not the responsible adults. I thought you were like, if, if I unleash a neutron and, and it leads to some sort of proliferation of deadly technology, it's on you. It's not on me. You're already taking risks that you shouldn't be taking.

1 (2h 3m 39s):
So if you think 90% sure that this is not coming from here, you believe this because You don't think that the proper science in order to achieve these kind of results is being done by the people that you believe are capable of doing it.

2 (2h 3m 56s):
That that is correct. I know that, for example, when I talk to NEMA or when I talk to Juan Mal Deena or when I've talked to Naty Seiberg, these people are absolutely brilliant and they don't know the answer unless they're the greatest actors I've ever seen.

1 (2h 4m 10s):
So the most brilliant physicists are looking at these supposed videos. What is the best and most compelling? No,

2 (2h 4m 19s):
Don't, that's U ffo.

1 (2h 4m 20s):
What are you talking about then?

2 (2h 4m 21s):
Ah, they're not talking about things that can extend Einstein. Right. They're my therefore, to get back to your technology question, right. Might have engineering applications because it's the engineering applications that are terrifying. Right? Right. The discovery of the neutron was one thing, the teller UAM design was its weaponization. So suddenly, you know, you can do the czar bomb or, or Castle bravo, these unbelievable explosions, which like the difference between there are civil, there were civil war veterans who saw action in the Civil War who lived to see Ivy mike in the Pacific.

2 (2h 5m 1s):
So the civil war was almost a thermonuclear war in terms of human scale. It's not, it's less than a hundred years different.

1 (2h 5m 11s):
People

2 (2h 5m 11s):
Have forgotten how terrifying, important, wonderful jaw dropping and awesome physics is because it hasn't done anything that completely screws your mind.

1 (2h 5m 21s):
Like Hiroshima or Nagasaki

2 (2h 5m 24s):
Or Castle Bravo.

1 (2h 5m 26s):
What? Castle Bravo.

2 (2h 5m 27s):
That was the test in the Pacific where we thought it was gonna be like, oh, controlled in like, or or what is it? Starfish where we did an atmospheric explosion over Hawaii and then the Russians like, hold my beer. No.

1 (2h 5m 41s):
Yeah.

2 (2h 5m 42s):
You know, we remember I'm the guy five years ago who was saying, we need above ground nuclear tests because all you people have lost your fear. Like, yes, Eric is crazy, but he's correct.

1 (2h 5m 55s):
What's this one? That's Castle Bravo. Oh shit. Oh my God.

2 (2h 6m 1s):
Right.

1 (2h 6m 2s):
Like, so they detonated in that facility and they expected it to be far smaller than it was. You know, they

2 (2h 6m 7s):
Detonated in the Pacific,

1 (2h 6m 8s):
Right? but it is right next to that facility that was in the video. Yeah. Was that, was that the facility that was initially filmed? Like what? Yeah, what is this facility? That's

2 (2h 6m 19s):
It. It was it e INow walk, I forget atl. So like we just, it's

1 (2h 6m 26s):
Crazy how long ago that was and how close it was to the Civil War. If you really put it in that context. Well

2 (2h 6m 31s):
That's, this is what I'm trying to say is what I'm trying to tell you. Look

1 (2h 6m 35s):
At that. That's so insane.

2 (2h 6m 39s):
Have you done this in Oculus?

1 (2h 6m 41s):
No, I have not.

2 (2h 6m 42s):
I highly recommend if they're not gonna let us do a nuke above ground so that we can save ourselves by fear. Oh,

1 (2h 6m 48s):
Look at that.

2 (2h 6m 50s):
Right? This is reli, this is religious stuff Joe.

1 (2h 6m 53s):
Yeah, it is religious stuff.

2 (2h 6m 54s):
Like we are, we, we have announced if, if somebody is listening to these tests that we did, my belief is very shortly before you get the ability to trav traverse the cosmos. If that is possible. If that is possible, you let off a nuke, right? Yeah. It's like, it's like, you know, you, you've had kids, there's some stuff that happens right before they figure out how to break out of the crib.

1 (2h 7m 21s):
You know, that's part of UFO folklore. I know too. I know fat man and little boy that's a big part of UFO that once they dropped those, that's when all the UFOs started appearing.

2 (2h 7m 32s):
So the question is, is you know, the analogy I give, so I talked to Avi about the following thing. I am a fan of something I call the double e scientific method. The usual scientific method makes a hidden assumption that it never voices. Which is, if we're gonna study orcas, we assume that we are smarter than orcas or if we're gonna study cephalopods, right, like an octopus, we think we're smarter. And what do we do? We disguise ourselves, we create artificial environments. We do all sorts of crazy things based on the fact that we're smarter than what we study. From everything from rocks to orcas.

2 (2h 8m 12s):
The doubly scientific method says, okay, assume that you're studying a rat in a maze, but you yourself are the rat in somebody else's maze. Now you have to look up the intelligence scale, not just down and in the doubly scientific method, you have to assume that whatever is studying you is hiding from you the way you are hiding from your subjects. So if you see somebody in a duck blind for example, and he's studying ducks, you understand that somebody may be hiding from you and they might be able to use multiple dimensions of time. They might be able to cloak themselves and disguise themselves. Or for example, if you take microscopic UFOs, this gla, this cup has a radius of r and a circumference of two pi r.

2 (2h 8m 56s):
The disc that it spans is pi r squared in area. But if you look at this cup, it's much larger than pi R squared because we pushed it out. You could have a sphere where if you could cheaply engineer space time, not through the Einstein field equations, but through the successor theory that recovers Einstein, you could have an entire stadium inside of a tennis ball. Just the way this cup doesn't blow your mind until you realize that its area is much greater than pi r squared. You could why look for a giant floating thing in the sky if you could bend space in time and you could play with the rulers. The way I'm saying, I would put this in a tiny little profile.

1 (2h 9m 37s):
Whoa. So we're only looking at it in terms of our understanding of the distance between objects, planets, gravity, we're, we're, we're looking at that, all that stuff. Where if it didn't exist, if somehow or another we lived in some contained environment and we had no concept of space whatsoever and then we gained access to it, we would be unbelievably overwhelmed if you lived in some sort of underground facility your entire life, love this. And then one day you got a chance to go outside and see the Keck Observatory in, in Hawaii. Right. In a clear night with no Moon, you would, you would be overwhelmed. You wouldn't be able to believe that the world was as big as it really was or that the universe was as big as it was.

2 (2h 10m 22s):
Yeah. It's an impedance mismatch. If you watch meteor showers the way my family does, it's, it's religious, it's, it's, it's transformational. It's transcendent. Yeah. The problem as you know, from the default default mode network, right, is that mostly what your brain is doing is not communicating information but screening. Right. Your eyes, your fovea is precious. 'cause that's the thing that can resolve at very high levels. Yeah. But like I can barely see Jamie out of the corner of my eye because my peripheral vision can't be at the same level as my phobia. I'd be overwhelmed.

1 (2h 10m 57s):
Right.

2 (2h 10m 59s):
So we're talking about tapping in to a picture of the world that we are not, our brain is not prepared for the idea that time is multi-dimensional. That was the whole point of giving Lex another watch. We don't have a way to think about, I'll meet you at five 15 and 1230 according to two different scales of time. Or for example, time and space. If I'm correct, the 14 dimensional manifold that has all the quantum going on on it is split probably seven and seven dimensions because we have six extra time dimensions and four extra space. Add add six to one and three to four and you get seven. So space and time are interchangeable there.

2 (2h 11m 40s):
There's a duality between them. All of this stuff is like, you know, okay, it's how you hit on chicks in a bar. Hey, let me tell you something about space and time. You never thought about, oh my god,

1 (2h 11m 52s):
Does that work? What

2 (2h 11m 53s):
Worked for me? That's, that's why I'm not in better shape. So

1 (2h 11m 60s):
Do you think now when you were talking about these people that want, that keep ana you and not giving you access to whatever they're talking about, do you think they're talking about some sort of an engineering solution to this type of technology?

2 (2h 12m 16s):
I haven't met anyone in striking distance in three years.

1 (2h 12m 19s):
So how could they have something that you don't, that's gonna change your way of looking? Is it possible that you've missed something?

2 (2h 12m 27s):
I can just be wrong. First of all like this is my, this is my life's work. Right?

1 (2h 12m 32s):
What's the way they phrased it to you?

2 (2h 12m 34s):
Which part?

1 (2h 12m 35s):
The part about it changing the way you see the world. Oh,

2 (2h 12m 39s):
Eric. You know, like I'll complain about data and like that's not the data we have. What, what we've been showing the public is downs sampled. Meaning that it's, it's fuzzier, it's low resolution. Like how clear is it? As clear as you want? How clear are you that there's something to see? You can see it with your own eyes. There's no question

1 (2h 13m 2s):
If I was, you know, I just shut the fuck up and let 'em show me, I'd be like, let's go

2 (2h 13m 6s):
Under, I'm not under any NDAI

1 (2h 13m 9s):
Know, but I'm saying I

2 (2h 13m 10s):
But you want to know the way that I wanna know. Yeah, but I wanna know in a different look. My life's work is a, is a theory. It's one theory. My entire life is really about one theory. Okay? Like I do this entertainment thing and I talk to people and all this stuff. Bullshit. Really what I am is an academic who realize that you can't do academics inside of the university system and watch it dis disintegrate into madness as we speak. I figured this out a long time ago. I wanna know whether this is right or wrong. So much better. So much more than I wanna know whether UFOs exist. UFOs to me are an indication of whether I'm right or wrong. You see it's data, it's an input to me because,

1 (2h 13m 52s):
So if you're right, that means

2 (2h 13m 54s):
If we have a future, it means we can leave not the planet but the solar system. We can exp the cosmos are traversable. If we can leave anything else can visit. If you look at the entirety of the universe and you imagine that ultimately there are societies that destroy themselves because they get atomic weapons before they figure out how to leave. Some societies are smarter than that and they'll be able to leave and and colonize the cosmos and for them not to be here would be madness. So if you've heard Of course, my analogy there is an island in the Anderman chain called North Sentinel Island.

1 (2h 14m 33s):
I know it

2 (2h 14m 33s):
Well, yeah. North Sentinel Island is my model potentially of us. We are the North Sentinel is

1 (2h 14m 40s):
The 39 people that are direct descendants of people left Africa 60,000 years ago, right?

2 (2h 14m 45s):
Yeah. The, we don't know if there's 39 or 300, they kill everybody who lands there essentially. Yeah. There's a story that we actually buggered them, an English person buggered them, which is why they don't want anyone landing. Yeah. There actually are some very weird videos where we throw them coconuts 'cause coconuts don't occur in their island and we actually have non hostile contact. But the most important part of it is India. They do not know that they're claimed by something called India and they don't know that they have a firming problem because India won't let anyone land unless they break the law. So the great filter of North Sentinel Island is a model for why don't we see anybody? Why aren't we clear?

2 (2h 15m 26s):
Does India exist at some sort of UFO level? Now this is the doubly scientific method. You can laugh at it, but then would you laugh at the North Sentinel who are smart enough to say, I wonder if there's another society that's screening everybody from landing here. Now what happens on North Sentinel Island, if you're watching it and all these people with loin claws or no loin claws and spears and arrows and stupid stuff, suddenly you start hearing radio signals coming outta North Sentinel Island. You're like, what? Then you see a little mushroom cloud in the northeast of the island. Then you see little boats that start exploring around that seem to be propelled internally and you're like, are they burning the leaves?

2 (2h 16m 6s):
Have they invented internal combustion? Some point with the mushroom cloud. India says, enough is enough. We cannot afford to let the north sentinel leaves be treated as some sort of backwards people who don't have anything developed that scares us. We that that that's a mushroom cloud man that that's time to go in.

1 (2h 16m 23s):
Mm, I see.

2 (2h 16m 24s):
Right. So my claim is, is that you're not used to the double e scientific method because there's been no reason to have a doubly scientific method. Do you believe that the orcas are smarter? Possibly. There aren't that many species that are really smarter than us. Look at all the shit we do. There aren't many that are dumber than us either, but not my point. Those sorts of models are what distinguished people who are gonna get called crazy but aren't because it's an obvious point. You have to account for this possibility that there's something called India up in the skies that doesn't want anyone landing here. Right? Who's monitoring what's going on and they're not going to be infinitely patient if they exist.

2 (2h 17m 5s):
Now, if that's true and we can leave and we can't civilize ourselves and we bring this mad technology with us, this ability to destroy, I personally feel responsible in a way that my colleagues don't. They have these ideas like, oh I'm a physicist. It's just fun. It's really interesting. It's a bunch of puzzles. My feeling is you doomed the human race and you don't feel responsible for building a lifeboat, for saving us for like what kind of a sociopath are you? Like I'm not even a physicist. Joe and I feel responsible and this gets back, you know, to to some weird stuff about

1 (2h 17m 48s):
So they're not thinking about that. No. They're thinking about the equations they're working on. They're thinking about the puzzles they're trying to solve.

2 (2h 17m 53s):
It's fun. I get to play it's, you know, universe this and puzzle that and it's just like, please it's not

1 (2h 18m 0s):
Do. Do they not think of a way to leave the earth? 'cause they don't think it's a surmountable.

2 (2h 18m 7s):
Correct. They live in space time. They have crawled into the map, the prison built by Einstein and they know that it's not right because there are these two singularities, there's this singularity at the beginning of time, which we call the big bang assuming the time were one dimensional and it's part of something called the Freeman Robertson Walker space time model. And there's another one at the bottom of the black hole called the Schwartz Shield singularity. And the fact that space and time kink at these two points is an indication that we have something wrong to a mathematician or a physicist. It says your equations work pretty well right up into the point where there's some error that you have that you don't understand and you have like a division by zero error.

2 (2h 18m 52s):
And if you could figure out your error You don't know what sin you committed, but the way that you know you committed a sin is that you have a singularity. So they know that there's some successor theory and they'll give lectures about space time is doomed. And I'm gonna talk about non-communicative geometry. But these are all ways of avoiding the fact that you haven't done your homework for 50 years. Okay? So like there's some class that you're supposed to show up to and you haven't been in a long time, you don't wanna show up and suddenly say what? What's going on? That's what's happening. They're living inside of Einstein's model. So when you say something they'll say, well that's impossible because you can't go faster than the speed of light. And it's like that's a space time concept. That's an Einsteinian concept.

2 (2h 19m 33s):
You're not thinking post einsteinian, you're not thinking about recovering Einstein or Einstein is what we would call an effective theory. You're thinking that you really live in space time so you know what you can do and then you fold your arms and say, well that's impossible. It's like, no, you have a limited map. You think that you know Greenland is the same size as North as South America.

1 (2h 19m 54s):
Okay then as far as its application, what could you imagine would be a way that someone could actually apply these laws, these theories?

2 (2h 20m 8s):
So imagine for the moment, again this goes back to, let me put my, my Eric the science person doing his own theory, right? This is my thing that I tried to give you last time I was here. If we imagine that there are two spaces and one of them is 14 dimensional and one of them is four dimensional and gravity connects them, that is the metric the gadget. Think of a phonograph. The record is like the 14 dimensional world and are you a Doors fan? Yeah. Okay, so you've got doors one break on through to the other side is on the same side as soul kitchen.

2 (2h 20m 51s):
You don't hear break on through to the other side or soul kitchen simultaneously. They're both there on the record,

1 (2h 20m 58s):
Right?

2 (2h 20m 60s):
The phonograph, imagine you're doing it on a Victrola somehow you gonna, you're retro, you're listening to that record in four dimensions, but it's a 14 dimensional record. So you and I are playing back a 14 dimensional quantum world, but we're only playing back slices of it. So the illusion is that we're having a four dimensional conversation because the Victrola part that that phone, his master's voice is the four dimensional thing. And what's the stylus? It's the metric, it's gravity. The stylus is pulling off different data that is simultaneously existing. So it's like the record is the multiverse, but you don't think of it in these terms.

2 (2h 21m 41s):
You don't freak out and say, oh my God, I'm holding the multiverse because light my fire is somewhat adjacent to soul kitchen. That is my structure. That's what I believe is true. And we're having the discussion as if it's only the phonograph, the victrola part. If you could then go to the record, you don't have to scratch your way back. You can do these weird moves where you can light the stylus in different places and shrink things and grow things and change the angles and all this stuff. And you have engineering possibilities like I'm, I will say what I believe the internal properties of the particles that we have yet to find the dark matter if you will, are, I will tell you places that I believe the standard model is wrong and I'm happy to go down on the ship and move on with my life if I'm wrong.

2 (2h 22m 35s):
But I can't. I've been 40 years trying to have this conversation with a competent person and every excuse under the sun is used to avoid talking about what I'm saying and and I, I'll say some stuff that when I, in 1987 around, I proposed a set of equations that were like the junior version of geometric unity. I was told that those equations were insufficiently nonlinear, that they involve spinners and spinners have nothing to do with something called self duality that I had violated the spin statistics there a whole bunch of things. and I was invited to leave Harvard where they said, you have to move out of Massachusetts, you cannot live in Massachusetts.

2 (2h 23m 21s):
and I said, you don't have the right to tell me where I can live. That's not part of our agreement. They said, well if you wanna continue in this department, you have to move out of Massachusetts. I only, what, what was the reasoning behind that? They thought I was wrong and crazy. So, but well let me keep going. Okay. In 1994, ed Whitten is at giving a lecture in the main seminar room in building two in the MIT math department where I'm now a postdoc under a National Science Foundation fellowship. So I had gone through huge trouble and I crawled back on top and Ed Whitten says the self duality revolution, which is related to Jim Simon's work, which I was saying before.

2 (2h 24m 12s):
He says, theoretically You don't have to deal with these super complicated equations anymore. And he doesn't say what replaces them. And a guy named I think Alan Newtson, who's now at Cornell, I think raises his hand like a punk and he says, do you wanna tell us what equations we would use instead? And Ed Whitten writes down these two sets, these set of two equations and I look at them and I say, those are the equations that I proposed at Harvard in like five years ago. Or was it seven years ago? and I said, huh, that's really interesting. He's about to get told that they're insufficiently non-linear, that they involve spinners which can't possibly involve self duality and that he's violated spin statistics.

2 (2h 24m 56s):
And I'm looking forward to watching what happens when Ed Whit has told this couple weeks later, I'm at the MIT commissary with is Singer and the math physics group and a guy named Andre Sene Hungarian, brilliant guy now in Geneva I think says, have you heard the news? He comes by, it's like what news? All of Donaldson theory and self dual equations is falling. It's like what? It's like they were using the wrong equations. Everything has become trivially easy. Can you bring up an article called Gage Theory is Dead Long Live Gage Theory.

2 (2h 25m 38s):
So like I, I didn't want to tell these stories the last time I, this is like super painful, but I'm done with this stuff. I'm just completely done with this. So you see there was this thing called the Self Dual Equations, which Isadore Singer brought to Michael Attia and Nigel Hitchen. Oh the other one was if, if spinners were involved, Nigel Hitchen would know and he would've told us, which is bullshit. Keep going to the next page, the new gauge. There you see those two equations. DAF Phi equals zero. I had written P si rather than Phi. Phi has to do with the spin of the field, but f fa plus equals I, I had written these things down in a slightly different form and had been effectively laughed out of Harvard for this.

2 (2h 26m 28s):
And it turns out that what was going on was Ed Whitten had written these things down and now all of these people were converted. And a lecture is given at room 5 0 7 in the Harvard Math Department on the fifth floor across from the office of a guy named Raul Bot who is absolutely not my advisor. But the internet is determined making my advisor, it's making me really upset. Raul Btt is my hero, but he was not my advisor. He's a great man and you shouldn't do that to him and you shouldn't do that to me. So I go to this lecture and the person giving it, who's really the closest thing to, I had to an advisor, if it's not a guy named Drawbar Netan is the brother of somebody you've had on your program.

2 (2h 27m 12s):
You've had Gary TAs on your program. His brother is named Clifford Tabbs. And Clifford Tabbs had picked a fight with Princeton and he had said, you know, these guys at Princeton, we work our asses off to get these results in Donaldson theory, these equations are so hard. And then always after the fact, Princeton tells us what we're really doing, you know, thanks guys. So it was a fight between Cambridge and Princeton and now he's got a eat crow. Okay? So he's giving this lecture and he titles it Whitten's Magical Equations. This is the same guy who tells me that I can't live in Massachusetts in 1987 and he's going on, he's like saying this is the greatest day of my life.

2 (2h 27m 58s):
I was a, I was in prison, I was working at hard labor for 10 years. These equations make everything trivially easy. I'm sitting in the back row room 5 0 7 picking my nose and a guy in the front seat right hand side is named David Kaj. Don one of the most brilliant people on the planet and he usually falls asleep during the lecture. He's like a Soviet Jew who got through the anti-Semitic system at Moscow State, like unbelievable mind. And he says, excuse me, cliff, didn't we have a student at some point who told us to to look at the spin bundles and maybe these equations and Cliff goes white as a ghost and I'm picking my nose, right nostril and the entire room swivels and looks at me. And then I realize like everybody actually remembers what I was saying and my thesis is on the spinner bundles, all this stuff.

2 (2h 28m 45s):
and I have this question. Do I tell them the whole theory and I left mathematics at that moment I just decided I can't trust you people. Cliff knows the answer. Cliff is supposed to say, you know, Eric told me to look at that and he won't do it. He's sitting there giving the credit, not even to Cyborg and Whitten who are the two people who do these equations. He's giving a whole thing to Whitten 'cause he's scared 'cause he's apologizing, he's saying, I screwed up. I doubted you Princeton. Princeton was right, Harvard was wrong. New Jersey beats Massachusetts. Tough shit. That's the way it goes. But Massachusetts actually had an entrant in that game and that was me.

2 (2h 29m 28s):
And then Isadore Singer writes somewhere in one of his papers, you know, I learned about this years ago before from, from Eric, Weinstein a paper with Cano and Bayou. So this was my trajectory. This is why I left mathematics in part because I realized that there was just no honor. There was no way of making a name and, and like people were just gonna give away my stuff. So when I, when I did this draft of gu, I said I'm an entertainer. People don't have any clue why. It's because I have copyright protection. If I release a work of entertainment, you can't just name it after yourself or your friend or whoever you're upset with.

2 (2h 30m 9s):
You know, it might hurt you. It's like that's mine. It's my work of entertainment. I own the portal podcast. Tough shit. Now all that is long in the past. I don't want the cyborg Witten equations, which is what they're now called Natty Seiberg and I have worked this out years ago at a meeting in San Francisco. He got $3 million. I forced him to gimme a hug in front of the Institute for Advanced study. Call it. Even this is so much bigger than this. Those things, the cyber written equations is the barest thumbnail of what's coming And

10 (2h 30m 46s):
I,

2 (2h 30m 47s):
If we don't use this stuff, we're doomed here with Xi and Bidet and Kamala and Trump and Putin and Zelensky and Khomeini and all of these idiots and we're not gonna make it what I work on where I've disappeared. Where's the portal? We look at the portal, you know, it's like, Do you notice how everything that you love gets destroyed? Jordan Peterson, Brett Weinstein, Sam Harris, even Lex Friedman, they go after Lex Friedman after I warn Lex they're gonna come for you because of his reading listed. Because they misportray him as if he's claiming to be an MIT professor, which he's never claimed in his life.

2 (2h 31m 29s):
They destroy all of us if we don't sing from the hymnal. This is so important to me because it's hope. If I'm wrong then maybe we don't have a plan a way off this planet. Maybe we don't have a way to the solar system out of the solar system that's bad news.

1 (2h 31m 46s):
What would be the technology that would harness this?

2 (2h 31m 50s):
You would figure out how to do the stuff on the record rather than the phonograph, the Victrola. You would start to move the space time metric. You would move along the directions of the metric not using the Einstein field equations. So you would try to figure out, okay, if we're in flatland here a four dimensional slice of a 14 dimensional world, how do I go what we, I have to say it in my own language along the 10 dimensional normal bundle. In other words, 14 equals four dimensions. We know plus 10 we don't call the 10, we don't the normal bundle. You'd start navigating in the normal bundle, you'd stop, you'd start, stop thinking about the sound coming outta the Victrola. You'd say that's three components.

2 (2h 32m 32s):
There's a stylus, there's a horn and there's a record. And you'd engineer around that so that you had a really efficient way to go very far or to to circle back in time without going back through times. You try to figure out what can I do with the stylus? Where can I put the stylus on the record to get different? And

1 (2h 32m 51s):
What technology would you employ to do

2 (2h 32m 55s):
That? Well, so First of all we know about three families of matter like this is made, everything you see around you is made of the first family of matter. It's all up corks, down corks, electrons and you and I are being penetrated as much as that's really distasteful by neutrinos. That's the first family of matter. Okay? Then there's a second family where the up and down corks are replaced by charm and strains. The neutrino is replaced by the muon neutrino, the electron is replaced by the muon. And then there's a third one where the muon is replaced by the tau top, bottom and tau neutrinos. Okay? If I'm correct, there are two additional generations of matter that are not, or families of matter that are not generations.

2 (2h 33m 39s):
They don't have the same structure as the ones we already know. Some of them are something called spin three halves and some of them are exotic spin, one half matter. So First of all, if you have dark matter that you have no idea of, you can't do dark chemistry. But if you do have an idea then you can guess at what dark chemistry would be and you'll have dark light. Everything you see here is spun left-handed. If it's matter and spun right-handed. If it's anti-matter, my claim is we are decoupled from matter that spins right and anti-matter that spins left. But in a low gravitational environment, it's like my left and my hand right hand don't know each other.

2 (2h 34m 21s):
So we have a, you know you have the asymmetry of a hand, which is you say, oh, digits two and four look like each other. The middle finger is the, is the axis of symmetry and unfortunately the pinky and the thumb look wildly different. But let's fudge it and imagine that there's a symmetry. Suddenly you realize neurologically you're disconnected and it's thumb to thumb on a different hand you didn't know anything about. So my claim is I believe that this world that appears to have a left-handed or right-handed nature, like Cindy Crawford has a beauty mark. So you know whether a photo is of her or her mirror image. There's like another Cindy Crawford with the beauty mark on the other side.

2 (2h 35m 1s):
Sorry, I'm dating myself people, okay? But that world would have engineering possibilities to do dark chemistry. We would have additional forces. Normally we get additional forces through something called grand unification where we use theories called SU five and spin 10 or SO 10. And those are the wrong flavors of the right idea. The right flavor would be called spin six comma four and su five would be replaced by SU three comma two. So there would be new unifications, new forces, it would produce new problems because when you put that comma, you know three comma two, you create something that is more space timey than more par than particle physics.

2 (2h 35m 43s):
So there's stuff we don't know how to deal with, but you see there's nothing in the laws of physics that say the, the rules of the universe will conform to what particle theorists currently know how to handle. Nature seems to know things we don't know how to do and the time is ended for us to tell nature, you can't have this or you must have that because we don't know how to handle you otherwise. Tough luck. It's the forces are different. The opportunities are different. Something called the Patis salam theory of grand unification is tied to the Einstein theory. And what I want to do is to say, can I get people, lawyers, guns and money to investigate this so that we can go traverse the cosmos?

2 (2h 36m 27s):
I don't know how to do the engineering any more than the person who invented the neutron. Who was it Chadwick or who's the one who found it? He wasn't Lisa Meitner who figured out the chain reaction and she wasn't Enrico Fermi who figured out how to do it experimentally. That wasn't Trinity, which was the Manhattan project and they weren't teller and Ula. So it's not on Eric to figure out how to do the engineering project. I need people,

1 (2h 36m 51s):
What could you imagine would be involved in figuring out a way to harness that like and actually utilize it and actually go interdimensionally like yeah, what, what would you have to do? What kind of power would have to be generated? Like what would be involved?

2 (2h 37m 11s):
So what wouldn't be involved is getting an entire planet to put a tiny dent in space time because that's not gonna work. It would be a question of saying I know about more degrees of freedom are those degrees of freedom accessible? And to, to give you an idea of what's involved. If you take a proton with two up quarks in a down court, so put two u's in AD inside of a ball, you call it proton. You're tempted to say, okay, if those are hard little balls inside, I wanna pull one out. It doesn't work. The equations have something that used to be called infra slavery, but we're not allowed to say the word slavery because of diversity. Equity included, I'm gonna say slavery 'cause I'm here.

2 (2h 37m 51s):
You cannot pull a cork out of a proton. So what looks like a degree of freedom is not accessible to you in the equations you see up corks and down corks, you don't see protons and neutrons, but the consequence of the edge of the equations is protons and neutrons, right? So when you look at the equations, you can't tell is that accessible or inaccessible. To bring it back to the UFO point, the reason UFOs matter to me is if they're here then these degrees of freedom are accessible and if they're not here, then it's probably like protons being filled with up quats and down courts that we can't engineer. The consequences of cork structure inside of the atom industrially are zero.

2 (2h 38m 37s):
We've been at the Cincinnati, you're born what? 67 the year after you're born. We find corks, we have zero industrial applications, right? That means you have to think about both possibilities. One, that these things are actionable if they're right. So First of all Eric can be wrong and I'm happy to be wrong if I'm wrong or I can be right If I'm right, then it splits into a second leg of level of the decision tree. Maybe the new degrees of freedom are things we can play with at the engineering level and maybe they're inaccessible. Just the way we can't play with upco and down corks directly. If we can play with it, then we've got so many new toys, you have no idea new forces, new matter, new possibilities to flit in and out between dark and light matter.

2 (2h 39m 24s):
But from an

1 (2h 39m 25s):
Engineering perspective, how, how would you make any of this happen?

2 (2h 39m 30s):
You would build something based on new plans that did something that nothing else could do. So to give an example, in the late fifties, we thought we knew electromagnetism cold. We'd been playing it with with it since Maxwell's time, right? Two guys named Aren off and Bom said, here's a crazy experiment. Take a tube that's perfectly insulated almost and run current through it and then pass an electron beam from like a, a cathode ray tube and reflect it off mirrors and see when it comes back and interferes with itself how it, how it interferes. If it's perfectly in influe insulated, it shouldn't be able to tell whether there's current running through the center of the solenoid of that tube.

2 (2h 40m 19s):
Turns out when you turn on the tube and you run current through it, the electron beam can detect whether there's current running through it through magic. Technically magic here means something called holin. We didn't know that. The electromagnetic fields are not where electromagnetism really happens. It's something called the electromagnetic potential. It's a precursor that actually determines the universe, it determines the electromagnetic fields. But this weird thing where somehow the current inside a perfectly insulated tube is influencing the world outside of it was like, holy smokes, we, we've been living with this stuff for how long? We had no idea how it works.

2 (2h 41m 1s):
The way you do this is we, we'd get together with a bunch of people and we'd say if Eric is correct or if somebody else is correct. And you started to play with this extended model of both general relativity and the standard model. What are some experiments we could run that you think would have no actual content? Just the way the Aronov B experiment looks like it's not gonna do anything. Or the kasmir effect or finding out that beta decay, radioactive decay knows it's left from its right. These are all hugely surprising discoveries. I don't know how to do that. And it's one of the reasons I keep talking to Brian Keating who's an experimentalist because what you see here in the studio is a hundred percent theorists, you only invite theorists from physics.

2 (2h 41m 50s):
You don't ex invite experimentalists. I don't know how to talk to the experimentalists, but that's why I go down to the University of California San Diego and play down there because I want to talk to people who are like, how do, how do we build this? You're the engineers, you're the of of physics. Tell me what, tell me what I'm saying in terms that we can build something and actually see if it has consequence and what could it be in terms of like building something, imagine for example that you look at the equivalence principle, right? So the equivalence principle says that the inertial mass, how much mass something appears to have when it's moving, how resistant it is to force, that's the same according to Einstein as the gravitational force, right?

2 (2h 42m 32s):
The gravitational mass. So gravitational mass equals inertial mass. There are like a whole bunch of different flavors of mass that happen to all be equal according to different principles, according to something called spontaneous symmetry. Breaking mass is generated by the interaction with the Higgs field in general. It's not a number the way we thought it was coded into an equation. It's something we would call a vacuum expectation value through AY coupling. Nevermind it's that thing about the molasses causes the mass to feel heavier even though the mass of the cup hasn't changed because it's requiring more and more force to push.

2 (2h 43m 15s):
If what we have is a bunch of different kinds of mass, we might be able to break some of these things like the equivalence principle, we might be able to generate negative mass, which is not technically excluded, but is incredibly hard to think about. We might be able to do things right. The only way we keep mass always positive is by putting in artificial conditions. If you have a bigger theory, you start to realize how you would do these things naturally. So for example, we might be able to dial the mass of things differently by actually engineering the thing that we call the Higgs field. The Higgs field is the only thing that doesn't spin that is fundamental when we spin space time

1 (2h 43m 59s):
And they've detected the Higgs bolson on a large, a large hydro Coli, right? A

2 (2h 44m 4s):
Hundred percent. Is this 2012? I think

1 (2h 44m 6s):
So, but this is an enormous collider, right? I mean to be able to generate the Higgs that had to go through how many kilometers and it's an an enormous, it's piece of equipment, right? It's right.

2 (2h 44m 21s):
But that's in part because it's a stupid piece of equipment. What we're really doing is banging rocks together except the rocks are called protons.

1 (2h 44m 28s):
So you are thinking there could be an engineering solution where you could generate something like that, but from a much smaller footprint,

2 (2h 44m 38s):
A hundred percent. That's a possibility because right now what we're doing is we're using electromagnetism only, the only force that we actually have engineering power over is electromagnetism. Like when we do chemistry. So you fertilize your lawn, you're using electron orbitals based on electromagnetism between the proton and the electron in an atom or molecule. We don't know how to inter interfere with the weak force or the, or the gravitational force. Both of those are so weak that they're impossible and the strong force is crazily nuclear in super short range. So we've got control of one outta four forces. I can tell you what I believe the additional forces are, but what I need is I need people who are closer to engineering experiment and standard theory.

2 (2h 45m 23s):
I mean I'm not even a physicist Joe. So I

1 (2h 45m 25s):
Right. What I'm, what I'm curious about is like what caused this shift in you to think about UFOs and UFO reports as being credible? Because we're talking theoretically and you're talking about your understanding of dimensions, because

2 (2h 45m 40s):
I thought it was not, I thought it was a smokescreen that we were using to do aerospace engineering projects. I thought it was like Operation Fortitude or Operation Bodyguard, right? And so it's like, okay, please don't bother me with your sci-fi stories. It's space opera, you know, for the same reason that I don't go into a Scientology center and spend all my time thinking about Zino. I'm not gonna spend all my time worried about space

1 (2h 46m 4s):
Op and what changed.

2 (2h 46m 6s):
Meeting an enormous number of very sober, very grownup people who seem to be changed alter and believe that this is real. I have met an enormous number of people now who've had personal firsthand, like sober people who've had crazy firsthand encounters. I don't understand how they're doing this as actors very often. It's unwanted, it ruins their lives. It's sad, you know, I ended up in San Marino at Lou Elizondo invitation, then Lou couldn't come. So I ended up speaking in Lou's place at AUFO and he was crazy. But I met so many people who were just like, Eric, you know, let me explain my experience to you and I'm just not prepared for these highly detailed stories that have so much similarity one to the next, you know, like the Skin Walker Ranch thing on the history channel is look, looks incredibly junky put out by Prometheus Entertainment.

2 (2h 47m 4s):
I know Brandon Fugal, the owner of the ranch and I know Eric bard. We keep talking via phone. Eric Bard is like almost the only other person who has some idea of what differential forms are. Tensor analysis is he's a sober, normal human being sitting out there on a ranch trying to figure out what the hell he is looking at. I don't think he's lying to me and I don't think Brandon is lying to me. And then you hear their stories like the Gary Nolan thing. I was completely on. Have you dealt with Gary? No, I watched him on Lex though. I think Gary told me a story where he is like dealing with a subject. He's a medical guy and that's how he got involved with this.

2 (2h 47m 46s):
And you know, somehow the medical pers the medical person that he is, is talking to a subject who says, you know, I encountered a spinning disc in the sky or whatever, and a ball of light comes in. He brother, another one of these stories and he's like, and you know, the ball of light entered my body and I was in pain, but it was okay and I exited and whatever. And then Gary looks at the person and there's a path of necrosis exactly where the person describes this thing exiting. Like, what are you, are you like, tell me what the level of conspiracy is here that would be necessary to get all of this indirect evidence. And this is the, the basic puzzle of UFOs. Zero responsible adult direct evidence in the public domain.

2 (2h 48m 29s):
Zero so far as I can tell, more indirect evidence than you can possibly imagine with sober normal people claiming things that I can't believe firsthand stuff. And then, and then it gets weirder and worse from that. I would love to keep this just metallic flying objects. But like no, it, it's always gonna be like, no, they, they go into the water and then, you know, the next level is the cattle mutilation. It's like, oh please don't bring in cattle mutilation. Oh yeah, the staes, you know, the smallest bone in the body, the three bones that make mammals. Mammals, you know, one of them seems to be frequently missing.

2 (2h 49m 9s):
And then like Paul Heller and Kaiya Ed and I Dunno, is it Ben Rich? Then there's this like crazy level where the former comedian, Canadian defense minister believes that there's a galactic federation, the humans are in contact and the is head of the Israeli. It's like, enough, I can't handle it. I don't know what we're looking at and I'd love to keep it at something sober and I see zero direct evidence if we're gonna go on the direct evidence. Elon is right. It's bullshit. Tough luck. But I don't know how this amount of indirect evidence occurs because I don't think the government is capable of faking this. On the other hand, if we go by the indirect evidence, how is it that none of us have like even the center of mass coordinates of this tic-tac?

2 (2h 49m 57s):
You'll, you'll, you'll never hear me talking about the tic-tac or the Zimbabwe kids or whatever. Why? Because since the mid seventies we've been able to do CGI in Star Wars. That looks much more realistic than any video I've ever seen. So you, you can show me any video and I don't care. It's just not interesting to me. We don't have center of mass coordinates for this tic-tac that's claimed by the US government over the Nimitz, please. Oh, because it's sensitive. We don't stop it. Shut up. Hush.

1 (2h 50m 26s):
So is it they don't have it. They won't release

2 (2h 50m 28s):
It? No, no, no. They claim it's not released. It can't be released to the public. Right. And I'm like, so downsample it Dres, it's not even our ship people. You're claiming it's something you can't understand and you have the three D coordinates and I can't play with it in a model on like Google Earth or SketchUp or something. Go f yourselves, you're gonna stovepipe this need to know. I have a need to know. I'm trying to do science. Is that the

1 (2h 50m 56s):
Most compelling one to you? The TikTok Act?

2 (2h 50m 59s):
Take your pick.

1 (2h 51m 0s):
It has the most, the most qualified people watching it. Yeah,

2 (2h 51m 5s):
But I don't, I don't want to get involved with Go Fast or Gimbal or this or that or the Phoenix Lights or the Belgian. It's like stop teasing me. Yeah. This is the Meredith Baker problem. When I was a 14 year old guy, I thought Meredith Baker was the hottest thing in the world. I wanted to go out with her. What?

1 (2h 51m 25s):
It's a girl you knew? Yeah. Okay. Yeah.

2 (2h 51m 28s):
And every time I asked her out she was like, I really wanna go out with you, but I really have to wash my hair, or I really have to hang out with my, I was like, this is not going very well. At some point somebody pulls me aside and says, Eric, you're Jewish. She's Mormon. Get the hint. She loves she, she likes you, but there was nothing gonna happen. Okay, I get it. This is Meredith bak You don't want for some reason to tell me what's actually going on then don't waste my time. Don't spend my credibility.

1 (2h 51m 57s):
Do you think that they don't want to release the information because they're still trying to digest it themselves and they don't want it to get out publicly and get into the hands of China? Or, I'm not smart enough

2 (2h 52m 6s):
To figure this out. I believe

1 (2h 52m 7s):
Wouldn't if there was something that was beyond our understanding. You want you,

2 (2h 52m 13s):
You want me?

1 (2h 52m 13s):
Okay. You want that data to be released?

2 (2h 52m 16s):
Can we have a glass of something so that I can hide behind the fact that I had a sip of

1 (2h 52m 20s):
Alcohol? All right. I'm gonna take a leak again and we will come back with ice and alcohol for Eric. Perfect. Apparently drunk. Thank you. Cheers, sir. Cheers. Alright, now you got your excuse. Okay, let's talk crazy. Alright. Whew. That's good.

2 (2h 52m 37s):
Yeah, that is good. Thank you.

1 (2h 52m 39s):
I, Glen Morang

2 (2h 52m 43s):
Orangy.

1 (2h 52m 43s):
Is that how you say it? I

2 (2h 52m 44s):
Don't know. How is it spelled? I thought it was Mojib.

1 (2h 52m 47s):
Yeah. How do you say it?

2 (2h 52m 49s):
Glen, Mor orangy.

1 (2h 52m 50s):
Glen mor orangy. I, I'd call it morgue, but I don't think that's right

2 (2h 52m 54s):
Either. I think it's Morang

1 (2h 52m 55s):
Glen Morange 18

2 (2h 52m 57s):
Old I I thought it was Glen Morange.

1 (2h 52m 59s):
So where were we?

2 (2h 53m 0s):
You wanted to know what I think is really going on.

1 (2h 53m 2s):
Yeah. What, what's really going on?

2 (2h 53m 3s):
Then? One possibility is we did a lot of bad stuff and we cannot get out of the fact that if we release what it is that we actually know and what has been going on, there's gonna be a lot of consequence.

1 (2h 53m 15s):
Bad stuff. As in

2 (2h 53m 19s):
Maybe people got killed. Maybe people were made crazy when they weren't crazy because they saw things. So if you think about you about deconfliction.

1 (2h 53m 30s):
Deconfliction, yeah. No.

2 (2h 53m 32s):
If you have a blue on blue situation, that means that two official representatives of the US government are stumbling over each other. You've got local law enforcement, like the first scene of the matrix is suddenly got really fucking intimidating. Joe. Now I'm scared.

1 (2h 53m 52s):
Comes up just asking him what? Really?

2 (2h 53m 55s):
Oh, wow. Nicely done. Yes.

1 (2h 53m 59s):
Alerted Russia to Biden's Ukraine visit for deconfliction purposes. Wow. Jamie. So, hey, don't the blow up this city because Biden's gonna be there.

2 (2h 54m 9s):
And the, there are three systems that stop the first scene in the matrix where the agent show up and local law enforcement is like, I think we can handle one little girl.

1 (2h 54m 19s):
Right? No,

2 (2h 54m 20s):
Lieutenant, your men are already dead. That's a deconfliction situation. And we have three things, I think called case explorer. RIS is safe and, oh God, safe safety net. And we don't know about these things because this is only for grownups in the government. So they have to like file what it is that they're doing and then, oh, we've got an undercover agent who's posing as a Colombian drug. Lord, don't bust him. 'cause we've got like 10 years invested in this thing. So I tried to use this system. I called up, I think case Explorer for South Florida and I got into a half an hour.

2 (2h 55m 2s):
Okay. Case explorer, the one, okay.

1 (2h 55m 4s):
I wonder how you found it.

2 (2h 55m 8s):
Try RISS safe. Hmm. I think that's the one. I

1 (2h 55m 12s):
Don't wanna keep looking up all these websites. Yeah, he's gonna get in trouble. Okay. Get flagged, but I'll do it. I'll do it.

2 (2h 55m 18s):
So this is how they deconflict blue on blue. But you see, you and I are also blue. We're having a conversation and we may be stumbling on something the government doesn't want us to know, which is what happened when covid may be spilled out. Yeah. You see

1 (2h 55m 33s):
Officer safety event, deconfliction systems, safeguarding law enforcement through information sharing.

2 (2h 55m 38s):
Right? So this is how they play. Keep away from the rest of us where they tell each other what they're doing and the rest of us can't know what's going on. Now when you say blue on blue, there's a situation that I want to give a name to because it doesn't have a name, which I'm gonna call, which on cobalt and cobalt on baby, baby and cobalt are two forms of blue. Cobalt is government and baby is like civilians, like you and me. What happens when a civilian stumbles on one of these operations, they're not allowed to use these systems. I, I called up the South Florida, I think Case Explorer had a half an hour conversation. They were telling me all sorts of stuff, and I said, I'd like to hear about Jeffrey Epstein, like, who's calling?

2 (2h 56m 24s):
I'm a private citizen. This call will be terminated in five seconds. And then they, they hung up on me. So I realized, okay, ordinary human beings cannot use these systems. I think a lot of what's going on is that we keep tripping over government operations in the cobalt sector, but we're baby blue and they don't have any system for fi figuring out how to get rid of a civilian who stumbles on it like a drug smuggling operation. Hmm. Like, okay, so Jeffrey Epstein traffics your daughter. What do you do if he's an intelligence asset? You don't know. You just want the creep away from your kid. So you file a complaint or whatever.

2 (2h 57m 5s):
Now you've got a situation where they don't know what to do because you've got a civilian and you've got some sort of super secret dark thing that isn't supposed to exist. My claim is that conspiracy theorist is basically cobalt on baby. In other words, the government warning a private citizen get away from that thing. Okay? We will start to destroy your reputation if you do not cease and desist, but there's no plan. So if you were the guy who figured out D-Day, he's like, wow, these are, there's a huge increase in the inflatable balloons. I think that they might be tanks. There's no troops under that Army designation. You'd be a threat to this incredible operation because you have free speech and nobody knows how to shut you up.

2 (2h 57m 47s):
Right? So consider that None of us know the answer to what does the government do when private citizens start to figure out state craft narratives are bullshit. So for example, Jeff Sachs was called in to supervise the investigation into the origin of Covid at The Lancet. And he puts in place all of the people who were involved with this through D Peter Dkk. He later figures out, oh my God, I just put the foxes in charge of the henhouse and he blows the whistle. So what if we have like a, since the 1970s, a 45 year old workaround of the biological weapons convention in Wuhan, we've created this thing called One Health and the EcoHealth Alliance.

2 (2h 58m 30s):
We took over as a hippie charity. And if you ever take a look at the board of advisors of EcoHealth Alliance, it's wildly overpowered, including my old mentor who's the head of the Sloan Foundation and the ex-head of the National Science Foundation. None of you guys look at the board of directors crazy. We keep tripping on these official statecraft narratives. That's why they won't let us question the zelensky stuff. They won't let us question the origin of Covid. They won't let us question the vaccines. They won't let us question whether there are therapeutics. These are all cobalt on baby things. It's horse dewormer. What's wrong with you people? You're all lunatics. You're you're pathological losers. Okay, I get it. You're just destroying my Wikipedia entry because I keep asking questions because actually you need to have a timeout.

2 (2h 59m 17s):
You're out of control. I'm fine. But you're gonna turn this into pathologizing. When you pathologize people who've seen the truth, now you've got a real problem. You gaslit American citizens because you couldn't do your effing job. Really? That's interesting. Did you kill anyone? Did you do wet work? Did you do digital wet work? What did we just find out from the Twitter files? Right? How many times did I say I'm being throttle, I'm being manipulated. The government doesn't want to take responsibility. We have this, what is it, GEC, that's from the State Department. We have CSA inside of Department of Homeland Security. These people are creating fake conversations on Twitter. They're creating fake reports about the hundred bidet laptop to influence the election.

2 (2h 59m 59s):
We didn't have a free and fair election and it had nothing to do with ballot stuffing or miscounting. So I believe that partially why we're not talking is that we've done so many bad things around UFOs that we don't want to come clean. Wow. That's interesting. Okay. So that's one thing. Two, if there's, imagine that there's one enormous update coming. Like your life is partially a lie. I think many of us have figured out that we originally believed that it was Lee Harvey Oswald acting alone, and now we're not quite so sure. Right? I don't know. Do you know that it was Lee Harvey Oswald? Well, certainly the Warren Report doesn't hold a lot of water with me anymore.

2 (3h 0m 41s):
A lot of us are going to have to deal with the fact that a lot of what we've been taught is crazy, is not crazy. Like the fact that this v virus seems to have come out of a lab where we were trying to figure out how to put a fur cleage site into a humanized coronavirus, and we're leaving in place the exact architecture that got us into this myth with without hearings, without hearings, there's no way we would do this without hearings. So what we're seeing is we're seeing an explosion, a collision between social media empowered humans who are smart, trying to figure out the story, and the government stonewalling us so that we can't figure out our own lives. Like what did, did my children get in injected or infected with something that came out of your stupidity because Ralph Barrick and Peter Dkk can't do their goddamn jobs.

2 (3h 1m 26s):
Maybe are we gonna have a tribunal about the fact that you infected planet Earth and you decreased human life expectancy by causing us to fight a different covid adv, you know, infection every year? Maybe these are hugely consequential issues. and I believe that UFOs are in part a hugely consequential issues for reasons that may have to do with the fact that this is of the fake version where it's not overlord, it's bodyguard or fortitude like, I don't know. But we've certainly gaslit people and I think we're not prepared to take responsibility for ruining the lives of ordinary Americans who were smart and honest because we couldn't do our jobs in the intelligence and defense communities.

1 (3h 2m 5s):
What do you think is responsible for the shift in communication about this stuff now? Because in the past, no one would acknowledge it, no one would talk about it. Right now they're talking about it fairly openly and they're discussing it. When I think about things like that, I go, well, there's the cynic in me that says, oh, if they're saying this and it's probably horseshit, they're probably covering up for some drones that they've created. They

2 (3h 2m 27s):
Are.

1 (3h 2m 28s):
You think? Well,

2 (3h 2m 30s):
Yes. In other words, the UFO phenomenon is multiple things. We know that it's a cover story for things like the stealth bomber. We also know that it's a cover, that it's a cover story for our inability to take action against surveillance over flights of dirigibles and balloons. We also know that it's, people miss seeing things like, I've seen two UFOs recently that fooled other people, but I was able to figure out partially one with the help of Mick West, who is my antagonist, but also we were sort of we're frenemies kind of. And the other one was like a Mylar balloon that looked like a spherical fireworks display off the coast between Malibu and Catalina,

1 (3h 3m 11s):
The way it was being reflected by the sunlight. Yeah.

2 (3h 3m 13s):
You know, the thing people don't understand about Mylar balloons is that at night, a Mylar balloons a very confusing object to encounter because all you're seeing is like randomly scattered light and it's like, oh my God. You know, this is like the Phoenix Lights and I have that makes sense. I have like video of people in line at a Thai restaurant saying, oh my God, I've never seen anything like this Of course. I go across the street to investigate and it says happy birthday. Mm. So there's no question that it's a certain amount of people wanting to see things that aren't there. Yes.

1 (3h 3m 41s):
That's a big attraction. Yep.

2 (3h 3m 43s):
So this desire thing, you have to moderate your desire. Yes. It's certainly a cover story. It's certainly stuff we can't explain, but the claim really coming from inside the beast is we've seen stuff that is so clear that we know that there's something there and Eric, we just can't show it to you. And by the way, the reason that it seems to be government restricted First of all, it's very hard to take good video with a phone. I don't know if you've noticed this.

1 (3h 4m 15s):
They're getting better at it.

2 (3h 4m 17s):
I found like, I now spend my flights. I take the window seat and I sit there with my camera glued to the window under stop action. What it called Slowmo. Right. Or not Slowmo, the time lapse there. I, I'm up in the sky for a long time. There's basically nothing up there.

1 (3h 4m 37s):
But so you're trying to find things on your phone,

2 (3h 4m 40s):
But in part it's like, I do this thing where I take license plates and every time I see a license plate with three letters, like NSA or MITI, I take a picture of us. I have huge number of these things because I'm trying to train my brain, here's what random noise looks like. Like in other words, it's not telling you to do something. Right. It's not if it says BTC, I shouldn't go out and buy a bunch of Bitcoin. Right. People don't realize that you have to train yourself because you're gonna see lots of patterns once you start looking for them. And in finance, I, I used to build random number generators that had the correlation of the markets. and I would generate pictures and the financial professors, professionals would say, oh, we've gotta buy, this is a classic head and shoulders pattern. And there's gonna break out at such a, it's like I generated this out of a simulator written in Python.

2 (3h 5m 25s):
So people are just, they want to believe so much Yeah. That they're gonna lie. It's

1 (3h 5m 30s):
An issue. Yeah. It's an issue with Bigfoot. It's an issue with everything.

2 (3h 5m 33s):
It's an issue with all of us. It's an issue with me too. I have desires and I have to keep my desires in check.

1 (3h 5m 38s):
Yeah. Everyone, I am horrible. Right? Horrible with the unknown, horrible with UFOs. Horrible with

2 (3h 5m 43s):
We have to camp and decamp. And that's what I think what you do is great, which is you sort of believe and then you say, ha

1 (3h 5m 49s):
Believe I give up, I change. Right? I go back and forth.

2 (3h 5m 52s):
Well, that's what I do. Yeah. Now, at the end of the day, once you've pulled out all the mundane things, the question is, is there a resi residue left of things that actually are mind blowing? I can't tell you until I actually see stuff that somebody's willing to say, we captured this. It looks like this. Right. But I can tell you that I'm assured repeatedly by people who seem incredibly sober, who do not seem to be great actors, that they have seen amazing things. We have data that is as clear as you can imagine and we can't release it. And then you have this question of is there anyone smart who's trained in this very small number of areas, who's looked at this?

2 (3h 6m 34s):
Or are you just gonna like eyeball it and pretend that it violates physical law when You don't even know physical, you don't know physical law. Hmm. So far as I know Eric w Davis is the top person who knows what a tensor is on this project. Are you, are you kidding me? Try to imagine that you're trying to do the Manhattan project with, with the k-pop groups.

1 (3h 6m 56s):
It is that big of a difference.

2 (3h 6m 59s):
People will say, well, we have electrical engineers. Like I don't care. I'm talking quantum field theorists. I'm talking differential geometry, general relativity and I. And people are tired of you. Like, you're an elitist, you're Sno. Oh, go fuck yourself. I shouldn't have said that. Please edit that. Say it soft.

1 (3h 7m 14s):
What? You said it really soft. I know, I know. It was very soft. Go fuck

2 (3h 7m 16s):
Dog. But it's just like

1 (3h 7m 18s):
One of the kindest ever, there was no anger in your

2 (3h 7m 22s):
Voice. I'm trying to be an adult, but it's been three years. You've been wasting my time. Yeah. You, you say the word stovepipe as if it means something. Shut up and show us what you've got. Where your team,

1 (3h 7m 32s):
So I like your theory that they're covering up for some stuff that is, I mean, if, if really people have been harmed and I mean this, this one of the claims of back engineering, these things, it's always fascinated me is that there was ba Azar said there's a previous person who was working on the job, they died. They, they tried to do something and there was some sort of an explosion and it was limited into what I think you and him together would be the greatest podcast of all time. Would you be interested in doing that? Because you'd be able to tell Oh yeah, well we'll dose you up. We

2 (3h 8m 10s):
You what you want. Yeah. Say

1 (3h 8m 11s):
Something. What do you want Adderall? Do you want mushrooms? We got,

2 (3h 8m 14s):
I want a, I want a, a line of snore and desert toads that every time you answer a question wrong, you gotta lick the toad.

1 (3h 8m 21s):
But you would be able to tell whether or not it's nonsense.

2 (3h 8m 24s):
Yes and no. I'm not the best person. You'd

1 (3h 8m 26s):
Be better at it than me.

2 (3h 8m 27s):
I'd be better than you for sure. For sure. But you wanna know, look, Sean, Carol, and I. No, no. Sean, Carolyn and I don't get along.

1 (3h 8m 32s):
You, you need to be here for this. Alright, you I'll

2 (3h 8m 35s):
I'll show

1 (3h 8m 36s):
Up specifically. Show up. You're gonna be ready, man. This is you and him together would be so fascinating. His story hasn't fucking changed. Okay. Since 1989. Man. It's, it's if he's telling the truth, if he really was this propulsions expert from Los Alamos labs who they brought in because they were kind of trying to figure out what the fuck is going on and everything's compartmentalized so no one can talk to anyone. So no real science can be done. Right. And they're saying, tell me what, you know, like, let's figure this out. And he gets to it and almost immediately he's like, this is nothing that we know how to do. This is nothing that we're making, this is something from some, it's something that's not even designed for a human form.

1 (3h 9m 17s):
It's designed if, if if it's a physical vehicle. Yeah. It's designed for something much smaller than humans.

2 (3h 9m 23s):
I know nothing about Bob Azar. I've seen something about Element one 15, which I don't understand is like he predicted what? Well yes, they're, they're indexed by the number of protons. So I can predict that, you know, the elements we have yet to discover are gonna be in the same numerical. Right. I don't get this.

1 (3h 9m 42s):
That's

2 (3h 9m 43s):
Interesting. Yeah. But I think the claim is different. The claim is, is that this element must have some property or that

1 (3h 9m 48s):
He said it's a stable version of this element and that in wherever these beings are from, I see they have access to a stable version of this element that we don't have access to here.

2 (3h 10m 0s):
So let me make an analogy. Gold, I don't know if you know this about gold, what we call gold is the single stable version of gold. There are a bunch of isotopes that are all radioactive that turn into other stuff. So like, if I have to pay you in gold, if I choose a gold that isn't the one that works. Oh no. It's completely unstable. So you

1 (3h 10m 24s):
Gave me unstable gold.

2 (3h 10m 25s):
I know I give you unstable. What happens?

1 (3h 10m 27s):
You dive, you touch it. Well

2 (3h 10m 29s):
You certainly, you'll certainly get some radiation, but you'll also find that there's much less gold every time you check on your amount.

1 (3h 10m 36s):
My precious Oh

2 (3h 10m 36s):
Wow. Right. Whoa. But what I'm trying to get at is that it may be a claim that there's an island of stability. Like with gold, there's one isotope that's stable. Right. I don't know anything about that. I'm not the guy for that. But I can, I can, here's the thing, Joe. I can tell you what I know and what I don't know. and I could certainly probe him. The, the thing that I'm uncomfortable about, I dunno if you saw my interaction with Hal put off.

1 (3h 11m 1s):
No, I did not.

2 (3h 11m 2s):
So I interview Hal put off and we're talking about this stuff and it goes to remote viewing. I'm like, oh

1 (3h 11m 9s):
Brother, we

2 (3h 11m 9s):
Have to do remote viewing now. But if you think about it, when you get like a FaceTime call from your wife who's on traveling on business or something, or you're traveling on business, doesn't matter, that's remote viewing. So you don't realize it. But something completely mundane to you, like a video call is a version of this insane sounding thing.

1 (3h 11m 33s):
It's just done through a device, much like a camera lens sees things, right. Much like your eyes see things. You're just doing it physically, it's doing it through a device. You're doing it.

2 (3h 11m 44s):
Yeah. So when you biological hear Hal put off, say that he made money in the market that he, he needed to raise money for a school. So instead of doing a bake sale, he did remote viewing in the market. I noticed one eyebrow just went up Sean Connery stuff. What

1 (3h 11m 59s):
Do you think about that?

2 (3h 12m 0s):
We did not have a comfortable interaction. Yeah. I was respectful, but I, I certainly communicated that for a guy who's trying to prove that this stuff is real. Yeah. Wouldn't you like to invite me to your private island if this stuff works, rather than making exactly $26,000 or whatever the target amount was. Right.

1 (3h 12m 19s):
Why wouldn't you keep going with that?

2 (3h 12m 21s):
Right. It's like, he was like, well, I'm too busy. It's like, well, I understand being too busy to make money because I've certainly exhibited that behavior. But if making money is the best way of advertising that this stuff is real, why wouldn't you actually do it? So that was a very uncomfortable interaction that I had with Hal.

1 (3h 12m 42s):
That doesn't necessarily mean that he doesn't do it. You know, there could be this thought that, and this is, you know, what, what people would say about psychic ability as well, that could be that thought that some people feel that abusing that power or using the power for personal

2 (3h 12m 57s):
Gain, I tot

1 (3h 12m 59s):
Would somehow or another diminish its effectiveness.

2 (3h 13m 2s):
I, I so much wanna make money from geometric unity and I'm so, but you know, but

1 (3h 13m 6s):
It's not magic. Well,

2 (3h 13m 7s):
But there's something about not in my father's house, you don't want to be the money changer in the temple.

1 (3h 13m 14s):
Mm.

2 (3h 13m 15s):
I'm happy to make money hand over fist and I'm pro capitalism, but like selling geometric unity makes me feel sort of sick to my stomach and I think about it. I mean, I'm, I'm not so pure that I don't, I see what you're saying,

1 (3h 13m 26s):
But

2 (3h 13m 27s):
What I'm trying to say is you're trying to do something that's supposed to bring people together and you have a world in which we're losing all support for blue sky stuff. So I think what, in Hal's case, I just felt sad that I, I threw a bunch of proto shade that people as assembled into doubting. I think Hal was sincere, but I think what he was saying didn't make sense.

1 (3h 13m 55s):
The remote viewing part of it.

2 (3h 13m 56s):
Yes. And so I felt bad about like, what

1 (3h 13m 59s):
If it's possible? What if it's just not possible most of the time? Well,

2 (3h 14m 4s):
For example, let's imagine you, he claims that they sent people to the bottom of the sea in submarines who were able to remote view. And so the water is acting as a screen where like light can't get to the bottom of the Mariana trench, for example. Right. But neutrinos can. So if you imagine that there was some particle that could penetrate and be received, we have telescopes for photons for gravitons, which is ligo and for neutrinos, which is like, I dunno, what is that ice cube or polar bear? So you could imagine that there's some field that can penetrate the oceans that could be received. I can come up with a sci-fi story.

1 (3h 14m 44s):
Right. So you would imagine that these neutrinos are containing information you could and that they're attached to everything all over the earth.

2 (3h 14m 51s):
I'm not saying that that's what remote viewing is. Right. I know what you're saying, but I'm saying Yeah. If you wanted to say Eric a gun is to your head. We, we believe in remote viewing. Tell me a fairytale. Right. I could come up with

1 (3h 15m 2s):
Fairytales. Okay. And that could be one of 'em.

2 (3h 15m 4s):
Yeah.

1 (3h 15m 5s):
Do you think that it's possible that there are states of consciousness that can be achieved through some form of meditation or some form of some, some form of training the mind to get into a very specific focus that would allow you to access information that is otherwise unavailable? Yeah. I don't, I don't have any experience in that. I haven't done it. Right. So I would imagine it can't be done because I can't do it or haven't done it. But isn't it possible that there are states of mind that could be achieved through, whether it's holotropic breathing or whether it's meditation, there's states of mind that can, that are measurably achievable, that are very different from the current consciousness.

1 (3h 15m 56s):
Brilliant. What two people are just talking, is it possible that there's a way that some people have of occasionally tapping in right. To information that's unavailable to URR right now? So let's

2 (3h 16m 7s):
Do a junior version and then get to your question. Okay. The junior version is, is there a way that we can like look inside your body without opening your body up to figure out whether you have pancreatic cancer,

1 (3h 16m 19s):
MRIs? Ah,

2 (3h 16m 20s):
So tomography and the radon transform. The point is, any sufficiently advanced mathematics or physics seems like deep black magic. Yeah.

1 (3h 16m 32s):
Indistinguishable from magic.

2 (3h 16m 33s):
Exactly. Yeah. So it's an Arthur C. Clark problem. Yeah. Now, if you ask me, I'm very freaked out about this cattle mutilation because people I know swear by it and they say this is absolutely, you know, come, come see the autopsies. There's

1 (3h 16m 46s):
Been some weird ones for sure. Okay. They're fascinating. Yeah. But I mean, if you're gonna come all the way here to fuck with our cows,

2 (3h 16m 53s):
Well, no, no. The issue is

1 (3h 16m 57s):
They don't do it to people. This is my point. The,

2 (3h 16m 59s):
The staes. Yeah. but it quite weird. Yeah. But the staes, again, people think mammals are defined by like live birth and breasts and, and all. No, it's three bones in the ear, if I'm not mistaken. And those three bones have to do with insect orient ancestors who probably needed their ears detached from their jaws so they could hear high-pitched whining. That's a theory. We don't know if it's true. Whoa. Okay. Now those three little bones that mean so much, what they do is they transmit sound through the tympanic membrane to the organ of cordes so that the clia in this rolled up hor seashell in your ear, vibrated particular frequencies.

2 (3h 17m 44s):
So when I'm talking to you and I say, Joe, that's absolutely ridiculous. What we're, what I'm doing is I'm stimulating different hair follicles in your organ of corde to vibrate at different times. Or if I go wise man, say, right. That's tone three halves frequencies above. Back to same tone. Those things are perceived as pitch. I could imagine something caring about the idea of how do I communicate thoughts through the, the tympanic membrane using the staes. Does it sound exotic? Yes. Does it sound like bullshit? Absolutely.

2 (3h 18m 23s):
However, it's not outside of the realm using the, the doubly scientific method, which is you imagine that there's intelligence on the other end of this thing. And it's gonna use every trick in the book. 'cause it's smarter than we are to figure out how to communicate with us. Now, have I gone out into the desert? Have I prayed? Have I tried to get these things to talk to me? I have, right. I'm an atheist. But these things have a religious effect on people. They view them as angels, they view them as transcendent beings. They think that Ezekiel and the book of Ezekiel is about this stuff. It's like, okay, it's only my self respect.

2 (3h 19m 5s):
It's not, you know, I'm gonna run an experiment because it's cheap. Why wouldn't I do that? Right. Why wouldn't I do that heartfelt every Friday? Joe, you should come for our, to our family for Shabbat dinner. We pray we may be atheist, but not on Friday night. Friday night, we believe. Right. And my claim is that there are plenty of opportunities using the doubly scientific method. If something is much smarter than us and is able to communicate these things, maybe it's said to Hal, look, we can't interfere with you because we have a prime directive. But we can give you indirect hints. You know, I, what do I know? I don't know anything. Do I think it's likely? No, I think Hal is probably not correct.

2 (3h 19m 46s):
Right. But is it impossible to communicate with somebody below the, the bottom of the C? No, it's not impossible. Even using neutrinos, it's not impossible. Does, is there any mechanism that implements it? Not in that I'm aware of. Do we listen for neutrino events? A hundred percent. 1987 a the supernova. I believe that the photons and the neutrinos were screaming at us and arrived almost at the same time because the neutrinos we now know have a tiny mass. So they wouldn't be of traveling at quite the speed of light. Now the, the point is, let's imagine that we had Neil Degrass Tyson on, he's not having any of this shit. He's, he's locked into because he's not really a physicist.

2 (3h 20m 26s):
And in at a practicing level, he has to worry about his respectability. He is a hundred percent one of the most brilliant people at, at scientific exposition I've ever seen in my life. But he can't think, he's not ready to do great science because great science has a, an element of irresponsibility to it. Mm. And what we don't understand, I think about it is, is that when we decide that everybody has to do good science, it's like you doom yourself. Many of the greatest scientists of all time were borderline quacks. The belief, for example, that Watson and Crick had that DNA had to be a helix.

2 (3h 21m 6s):
I mean, I, Jim Watson's somebody I know and I I dealt with four days straight. The reason he beat Rosalyn Franklin is that she couldn't spend one day not being a good scientist. She was a good scientist and he admitted he was not okay. But he was convinced it had to be Helix. And from her perspective, it's like, oh, you wanna be Linus Pauling who figured out the alpha helix in protein. So you're gonna take Linus work and you're gonna superpose it on DNA and explain my Maltese cross. and it's not about male versus female. Absolutely. Jim Watson claims that if Rosalyn Franklin had spent one afternoon thinking it was a helix, she would've gotten it before he did. Did it's an extremely generous, kind feministic belief.

2 (3h 21m 54s):
She was a good scientist. He admits he was not a good scientist, but he was a great scientist. And that's the big difference. Great scientist engage in quackery, Kerry Mollus taking LSD or getting stoned out of his mind. Coming up with a preliminous chain reaction is an example of great science. Right. Richard Feynman claiming that a particle takes every possible path it can simultaneously does not make sense, but it's great science. It's not good science.

1 (3h 22m 24s):
So it's almost like guitar playing.

2 (3h 22m 27s):
Say more.

1 (3h 22m 30s):
You can be very technically proficient or you can figure out a way to do something someone hasn't done before. And do it in a way where you are, you are, you are cre you're, you're using creativity and science together. Ha

2 (3h 22m 51s):
Okay.

1 (3h 22m 52s):
Does this make sense?

2 (3h 22m 53s):
If you look at, for example, Jeff Beck's version of Drown In my own tears with Jules home. Hmm. That is one of the greatest vocal performances I've ever heard. I cry, I pulled over to the side of the road and wept when I heard that thing. 'cause he died. and I was just like, yeah, whatever. Jeff Beck died. I know he is supposed to be the greatest with his, you know, blah, blah blah. It's like, I have no time for, for Jessica.

1 (3h 23m 17s):
I got to drive him once. What? When I was a limo driver.

2 (3h 23m 20s):
Hold up.

1 (3h 23m 21s):
Yeah. Wait

2 (3h 23m 22s):
Break from UFOs Joe. Yeah. You have to tell me you're Jeff

1 (3h 23m 25s):
Beckler. I was supposed to drive Steve Ray Vaughn, but Steve Ray Vaughn refused to take a limo. Steve Ray Vaughan would always take cabs. Isn't that wild? and I was a giant Steve Ray v fan. 'cause my boxing coach was a huge fan and he was, he would always play that song. Oh God, dude, there's a bunch of 'em. But is it Ireland? Is that this? He has this one song. Never heard of this. Oh my god. This guy, this, this guy used to hit the bag and play this one song by Steve Ray Vaughn and I. Can't remember what fucking song it was. But I became fascinated with Steve Yvonne because of my friend. And as I was driving limos, I had an opportunity to Dr. I was like, oh my God, I'm going to pick up Stevie Yvonne. This is insane.

1 (3h 24m 6s):
But as you, he was with Jeff Beck. I'm like, yeah, that's pretty cool. So I drove Jeff Beck, but it was to me, wait, wait, wait.

2 (3h 24m 13s):
You can lead

1 (3h 24m 13s):
Over that. I didn't know. Yeah. I I also got a chance to pick up Annie Lennox security guy. Was this fascinating dude. I really loved talking to him. Oh, he was a lot of fun. And so I got to see, I was like, as close to you are as to Annie Lennox. And this was when the Eurythmics were huge and she was in this restaurant. and I swear to god, dude, her voice was like a, like a table wire when she would talk. Yeah, it would, it would almost like she had a nuclear voice. Like even just her talking, you would, you would like, knowing how beautiful her voice was when she sang, you realize like, oh my God, she's like an athlete. Like she's like an athlete talking just the way her voice was carrying in this conversation.

1 (3h 24m 58s):
I was like, this is amazing. Her voice is incredible. and I was realizing like, oh wow, this like a trained skill. Like a ballerina where they're vocal chords.

2 (3h 25m 6s):
I believe before it was trained, it was just, I have the same feeling about Eva Cassidy and Annie Lennox. It's just that these people didn't, are not part of reality.

1 (3h 25m 15s):
And well, is a gymnast a part of reality? I mean they developed that ability. I mean, I think that's what it is. I think we're seeing the final product and we're not understanding that there's this long journey. And some people have more physical gifts than others. Others do. But that's with gymnasts as well.

2 (3h 25m 30s):
I Okay. You ever heard Eva Cassidy get Sick and sing Stormy Monday? And something about the sickness causes her voice to do something that no voice has ever done? Oh no. Oh dude, this is like heroin. Wow. Jeff Beck is more vocal than these people. This version of Drowning my Own Tears, which is a cover. Ray Charles did a cover version of it and he figured out what the song was supposed. Okay, Doug.

1 (3h 25m 55s):
Yeah. Yeah. Hit me with a

2 (3h 26m 24s):
Ugh,

1 (3h 26m 46s):
What a bad motherfucker. What a bad motherfucker.

2 (3h 26m 50s):
By the way, I just wanna say something that you're not gonna want me to say, but fuck you. I was hanging out with his bass player, tall Wilkenfeld, and she got Covid and I heard that you sent a nurse with an IV with all of this sort of stuff to get tall Wilkenfeld this unbelievable bass player that just, she's my

1 (3h 27m 13s):
Friend.

2 (3h 27m 14s):
Yeah. But she's like a, she's like a next level human being. She is.

1 (3h 27m 18s):
I love her. She's great.

2 (3h 27m 19s):
I know. But like, you know, you take a lot of shit from stupid shit that you do. What a big heart you have. And nobody even knows what you do for people around you. and I just wanna say thank you. Okay. That was a very nice unauthorized thing That's, I wanna get back to. That's very nice to you. Thank you. Okay. The Jeff Beck thing there, she's, oh my God. Right? Like she's 12 years old and

1 (3h 27m 40s):
She's hear of this

15 (3h 27m 50s):
Hot stage. This is Costa Rica.

1 (3h 27m 54s):
Wow. I like how they have the little Indian rugs on stage That's pretty dope.

2 (3h 28m 9s):
Incubus with Mike Einziger and Brandon Boyd. And that was Costa Rica where they were getting blown away and that she couldn't even see properly because her hair was getting blown to

1 (3h 28m 19s):
Her eyes. I met her at the store, she's friends at Tony Hinch Club. That's how I became friends with her.

2 (3h 28m 23s):
Yes. Like she doesn't wanna hang out with music people. She wants to hang out with scientists and, and

1 (3h 28m 27s):
Comedians. She loves hanging out with comics. Yeah. She leaves out with us all the time. She's cool as fuck. She's, she can hang. She's really cool to talk to. But

2 (3h 28m 33s):
Incubus is also interesting. Person is also like they're really into science. They're the most down to earth rocks. Rock stars. That's Jeff Beck. That's awesome. So, you know, in terms of vocal performance, I did not understand what this guy was able to do. Multidimensionally with that whammy bar and using the slide as a plectrum. Mm. This guy was developing techniques not to, not to flash you, not to ying. We Stein play a million notes a second. but it was just like, I'm gonna spend my entire life not becoming a rockstar, but becoming the ultimate technician because of the things I feel in my soul that I wanna share with you people. and I didn't get this.

2 (3h 29m 14s):
And the only way way I found tall is that I thought like, okay, I was always thinking I'd get around to Jeff Beck and then he died and I was like, okay, whatever. I'm too busy. and I started feeling shitty about it. and I thought what happened to his bassist? and I found out she followed me. and I was completely unprepared for like these people who are channeling the universe directly through music.

1 (3h 29m 36s):
Yes.

2 (3h 29m 37s):
Right?

1 (3h 29m 38s):
Yeah. That's what it is, right? That's what it is. When, when someone like a Gary Clark Jr. Plays guitar, there's like something

2 (3h 29m 44s):
Who you introduced me to at the store when I'd never met him. You know, it is just like

1 (3h 29m 49s):
He's a fucking man.

2 (3h 29m 51s):
Well music science and humor are my three things that I use to measure human intelligence. You can't use an IQ test to get up in the stratosphere. These are the three things that actually discriminate. Humor, music, and science that like in general, I can assure you that when you order a sandwich at Subway, if you do so, you don't do it in any particularly special way. But lemme just say this, I saw you work up this thing about professional wrestling is gay over many nights because you kept inviting me to the store and you know, I like this whole controversy about you and Jews and money.

2 (3h 30m 34s):
It really hurt me because I've never seen anybody who's non bigoted as you. and I've hung out with you drunk and this stuff would come out and it's just like such bullshit. But I did have this like envy, which is I want to be the gaze and get you to work up actually what's going on with Jews and money and take the William tell shot where you get past this sort of dime store stupid shit. And actually like basically to, the thing about Jews and money is the Jews that had money survived and the Jews that didn't have money died in the camps. And every diaspora community, whether it's the overseas Chinese where you have the Parsis in India, or you have the Gura in the east of Africa, the issue isn't money Joe, it's liquidity.

2 (3h 31m 24s):
All of us diaspora communities have to have liquidity. Or when things turn bad, we get screwed. Right. And there is some routine. What I found about you and, and the gays in, in professional wrestling thing, you just, for people who don't know, I was sitting there at the comedy store and Joe says, I was watching professional wrestling and it is so

1 (3h 31m 47s):
Gay. That is definitely not how I set it up.

2 (3h 31m 49s):
Wait a second At

1 (3h 31m 50s):
All.

2 (3h 31m 51s):
And the, the audience that's freaks out.

1 (3h 31m 53s):
That's definitely not how it was set up.

2 (3h 31m 55s):
And then you turned around and looked at us and you said, wait a minute, I didn't say it was bad. You did that. Yeah. Right. and it was like this, wait, wait, wait. What? He just turned all the negative energy in the room on us for our latent homophobia. And then it was like we all had it and then we realized we had it. And then if I was sitting next to a gay guy and I started the evening homophobic, I guarantee you by the end of that Act, act, which you figured out over multiple times that I saw, we were sitting there ready to hug each other. and I want you to do the same thing for us Jews, I want you No, I want you to figure out your fucking money and Jewish thing and do for us what you did for the gays.

2 (3h 32m 39s):
Because that was a transformative experience. When I saw Chappelle take that shot on behalf of Kanye, I, I have to take a Kanye detour. Okay. People do not understand what happened with Kanye and I wanna talk about this from a Jewish perspective. Kanye in what, 2018. For some reason, Candace Owens of all people was like my fan. And she called me up, she said, I'm meeting with Kanye, which is my dream. I want you to be there. It's like, what? Alright, I show up. Kanye is the most kind, creative, mentally ill, wonderful, generous person you could imagine.

2 (3h 33m 19s):
That's

1 (3h 33m 20s):
A great way to put it.

2 (3h 33m 21s):
Okay. Kanye is like, can you come over tomorrow? Can you come out to Calabasas? We're like hanging out me and Kanye as if this makes any effing sense. By the way, he's got an NDA that is the most ghetto lawyer thing I've ever seen. It's like, if you say anything about this meeting, we'll take your child. We'll take your left testicle, you'll have nothing. I'm like, I am not signing this. Well you're not meeting Kanye. It's like, fine, it's only Calabasas. I'll take an Uber home f you. Like they call up Kanye, like, don't let it, don't make him sign. Just come through. It's like come through. Oh, that's so funny. And I'm like hanging out with Kanye like geek and the the rap God. And like he's got this videographer who's like filming everything and I'm like, I cannot deal with this person.

2 (3h 34m 5s):
Send him away. So he sends him away and Kanye and I have this heart to heart. And lemme tell you something, this is uncomfortable to say, I cannot imagine a kinder, more creative, more gentle, more loving, more inclusive person. He invites me on the spot to a listening party for his new tracks. and I say, I have to get home to p And the kids, he's like, well you You don't understand it's Kanye's album. I'm dropping it. and it's like, I don't care. It's my wife and my kids. I gotta get home. So he is like, okay, come to Wyoming. So he is inviting me to Wyoming with him. I'm like, dude, I'm a math person. Cut it out. He's like, well you have to come to Wyoming. Alright, we start talking about the concept of slavery in Jewish and black tradition.

2 (3h 34m 50s):
Now, part of the reason that Jews and blacks have very high tension is because we have very similar experiences. We both have a, a, a really deep relationship to slavery. In our case, it's Passover. In their case, you know, it's at the history we all know, and I say to Kanye, there are three levels of slavery in, in Jewish thought. There's chattel slavery where we're actually enslaved. Then there's cultural slavery where we're a diaspora community and other people's lands. And then there's selfs slavery where we can't get past ourselves and Kanye we're grooving. All this stuff. Having this heart to hide. We're walking around Calabasas and people are yelling out of car windows like, you know, Kanye, we love you. And like every time they do it, I remember that there's a Cripp alert.

2 (3h 35m 31s):
The Crips have have issued an alert from Long Beach that if, if Kanye Strays out of Calabasas, he's to be taken out. What? Yeah, when was this? I don't know. Look up Cripp alert and Kanye 2018. Okay. So Kanye's like, okay, there are three levels we we're reviving, blah blah, blah. and I get this call from Kanye the next day. 'cause I'm not guess the crippler for Kanye words. Like, I'm just thinking I'm gonna be killed in a drive-by shooting because I can't get home to my wife because I'm hanging out with Kanye and none, nothing makes sense in the world. Wow. Okay. Jesus Christ. Now I get this call from Connie. He's like, oh, Eric, I can't tell you how amazing this all is. I was just at TMZ and I was explaining the theory about slavery and how this whole thing works.

2 (3h 36m 17s):
And Jews and Passover and I was explaining how much I love Hitler. I went, what did you say? I was explaining how much I love Hitler. It's like, huh? I missed a meeting, a memo, something. And I realized, okay, Kanye is focused on the spiritual Sunday thing. and I realized what this is, is Jesus. Jesus loves everybody. No matter how horrible you are, Jesus loves you. Okay? And Kanye is thinking, what would Jesus do? And I'm realizing like I'm thinking at top speed, like he's talking to about Hitler at TMZ, whatever. I said, Kanye, I want you to listen to me.

2 (3h 36m 58s):
He's like, yeah, I said, I want you to run to TMZ. They don't want to destroy you. I guarantee it because you're a long-term property that matters. And there's no reason that they would want to destroy you. and I want you to beg them not to release what you said. Don't, don't question me, just do it. So he runs to TMZ and they don't release this thing. and I guarantee you that they have the videotape. So when you hear that the Jews and I love Dave Chappelle, but this thing he did on Saturday Night Live was not right.

2 (3h 37m 38s):
Okay. Yes. Jews are so fucking traumatized that we are super sensitive to anything that makes it possible for people to tell

1 (3h 37m 49s):
Jokes. Can I stop you for a second there? Sure. He has to do that. That's his job. His job is to make fun of something that's in the zeitgeist. I hear you. That is in the zeitgeist.

2 (3h 38m 2s):
I know you were gonna say this.

1 (3h 38m 3s):
The fact that Kanye West is being accused of this antisemitism and Dave Chappelle is hosting Saturday Night Live. Yeah. He's got this fake letter and he goes, and that Kanye West is how you buy some time. That shit was fucking hilarious. Wasn't There's nothing not right. No. About that. No. That was fucking hilarious. Sorry.

2 (3h 38m 23s):
Sorry Joe. I'm gonna go toe to toe with you on this one. You

1 (3h 38m 25s):
Don't think that was funny? Oh,

2 (3h 38m 27s):
Not only was it funny, Dave Chappelle is a fucking William tell level artist. He took his bow at an in incredible distance, agreed and hit an apple off of somebody's head. So

1 (3h 38m 38s):
What is wrong with that?

2 (3h 38m 39s):
Ah, the issue is that it opens up this issue for people who are not at Dave Chappelle's level. Okay. So you made a joke about pizzas, Italians.

1 (3h 38m 51s):
So you have to,

2 (3h 38m 52s):
Lemme tell you a pizza, cater

1 (3h 38m 53s):
Your joke to the dumbest people who

2 (3h 38m 55s):
Are listening. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That your problem, Joe, to be honest with you, is that you and Dave Chappelle are held by such high in such high regard by me and I. I completely defended you a hundred percent. This man has nothing to do with antisemitism. A hundred percent. Well,

1 (3h 39m 13s):
Thank you. Okay.

2 (3h 39m 14s):
You, no, you don't need me. Appreciate you. There's nothing part I love you to I love you. Here's to some bullshit. Love you too. No, you don't need to defend me because there's no, there's not a Trace of it in you. So

1 (3h 39m 29s):
Him saying, wait, wait, wait. Saying wait,

2 (3h 39m 30s):
That, wait.

1 (3h 39m 30s):
I'll do it. Okay. Please.

2 (3h 39m 32s):
Okay. I view you guys as the marksman. You're the surgeons. You're the fucking neurosurgeons who can get between two neurons and cut the bad one and leave the good one. That is to me, I know that you guys think it's about mockery. It's about having fun, blah, blah, blah. I've been through the Comedy mill. There is an aspect to Carlin's Comedy, for example, or Richard Pryor's or Lenny Bruce's that is timeless and immortal because it comedy is so much more than getting a belly laugh. It's at a different level. I expect you guys to work to keep, I want you to keep workshopping that thing till it finds its actual highest level.

2 (3h 40m 20s):
I'll tell you the, the joke about Pizza's money in Jews, right? I used to go to the Harvard School in Los Angeles, which was the top most exclusive Episcopalian school in la. and I was sandwiched between these two beautiful, muscular Aryan men. And they would make the following joke, Hey Eric, what's the difference between pizzas and Jews? The pizza doesn't scream when you put it in an oven. Right? That's a terrible joke. That's a terrible joke. and I lived it every fucking day. Okay. What is welling up right now on Twitter with Elon purchasing?

2 (3h 41m 2s):
This is a huge amount of antisemitism. And what we need is a country, as you and I both know, and we've both been in the same fight, is we need a massive coming together. We need to laugh together. We need to break bread together. We need to marry each other and have babies so that we're effectively indistinguishable from each other. Eventually we need love. And partially what the function of humor is, is to facilitate that. This is how John Stewart reported the news. Hey, I'm the fake news. But he was actually reporting what? Right. The real news. Right. Okay. Okay. It is my reverence for Dave Chappelle, which says that he fell, he fell short of his mark, he took the shot and he hit the apple. He didn't hit the kid, but he made it look like everybody could do that.

2 (3h 41m 45s):
And now we've got an enormous number of antisemites who are fun focused on this thing. Right? I was on your show years ago, and we asked this question about Jews in physics, and I made a joke of it. He said like, why are there so many Jews in physics? and I said, well, I guess we're lucky at physics. I'm done with that too. We have taken this language about underrepresentation into our, into our souls through this diversity, equity, inclusion. And if you ask about underrepresentation, you have to ask about Overrepresentation. And you know, who's overrepresented Jews? And now we're calling it the Jewish question. Why are there so many fucking Jews, Jews, Jews, Jews, Jews. Because we're fucking great at physics. And we're great at comedy.

2 (3h 42m 26s):
And I'll tell you something, you wanna get rich. I know that you're rich and you're a comic. But in general, is comedy a good way to get, make money? No. It's a terrible way to make money. And how many people are there and it like Jews, everywhere we've got Jews we're poor. Jews, we're rich, this and that. Jews are basically humans turned up to 11. We're on all extremes. We're more criminal than other people. We're less criminal than other people. We are in such danger at the moment because everything is breaking down. And when you can't figure out what's causing you a problem, people are always going to blame. Blame diasporic communities. They're gonna blame overseas Chinese. They're gonna blame Gujaratis. They're gonna blame Parsis. They're gonna blame Jews. Mm. And we are vulnerable right now.

2 (3h 43m 7s):
And the the issue wasn't that Chappelle was great. Do we have anyone better than Chappelle? He's a Genius. Straight up gangster. Genius amazing. What we are looking for is routines that elevate us beyond what Dave Chappelle turned in. I'm not claiming that Chappelle didn't make a hilarious routine. I'm claiming something different. I'm claiming that right now we need to heal.

1 (3h 43m 33s):
We need to, you don't think this humor helps us heal? You don't think that that was funny and that that First of all, no one's laughing at that is laughing because they're antisemitic, right? No, no. People are laughing at just 'cause it's a brilliant thing. It's funny, he's He's poking at the bear in the room. Yeah. That Kanye West fucked up. Okay. And he's like in this, do you remember? You

2 (3h 43m 53s):
Remember Owen some time? You remember Owen Benjamin? Sure. Okay. I think Owen Benjamin is brilliant. He did so many great routines, really insightful, incredibly clever, made me laugh. And he went down a bad path at some point. And I'm sad about it because I think he's a Genius and I think the best of Owen Benjamin is fantastic.

1 (3h 44m 13s):
What do you think causes people to go down bad paths?

2 (3h 44m 15s):
Because they don't know what's controlling them. They don't know what's going wrong. I'll tell you what the Jewish strategy straight up is. We over contribute. We over succeed. We over contribute. You wanna know who built America as a superpower? It's Edward Teller, it's Stanislau Ulla. It's Robert Oppenheimer. When you allow Jews into your country, we pay more taxes, we do more philanthropy. We make tons of fucking money. We do some criminal shit. That's stupid. We've exploited people, which is unfair. It's a complicated equation. But that's our equation for survival on balance. We over contribute, over succeed. And we love you. You know, we wanna be strong.

2 (3h 44m 56s):
We're loyal. And right now, people are scared that there's something that is denaturing our entire society, Joe. Right? We're not ourselves. We're not strong, we're not confident. We can't be masculine. We can't have children who we, we, we we're tiptoeing around trans. And the suspicion for who is keeping us from having a normal interaction is always gonna be Jews. You wonder why I'm all over? Really? Yeah. You wonder why I'm all over the Epstein thing? Because maybe it is Israel and if it is Israel, it's not Israel. It's like a tiny department inside of the Mossad. And maybe it's our own intelligence services, but I'll be god damned if it isn't a Jew who isn't gonna be pushing this. Now I've been invited to South America, for example, by a very prominent dual national between the United States and Israel.

2 (3h 45m 43s):
It's like, why don't you come down to my ranch Eric, where we, we have fun with the, with Luminoso like the Shining path. It's like, what does that mean? I'm being intimidated, Joe. I'm being threatened because obviously Jeffrey Epstein looks a lot like Ellie Cohen, the super spy of Israel, who held orgies in his Damascus apartment right now. I don't know. Jeffrey Epstein may be a US intelligence product. It may be a joint product, it may be an Israeli product. I don't know. But I can tell you this, it's not the Jews who are behind Jeffrey Epstein and I will be goddamned if I won't be pushing that because I'm gonna stand up for 12 year old girls, whoever they are.

2 (3h 46m 24s):
This is an immoral human being. I've been on this since the beginning. It's not fair. So we do do this thing where in some sense you have to understand how, how traumatized we are as a people. When I hear we aren't oppressed because we're we, we drive fancy cars. It's like my first cousin once removed, died on the train out of Kiev when the Germans invade, froze to death. My cousin is a mangola twin who forgave mangola, which is what Kanye was trying to do. He was trying to say, I'm Jesus. I can tell that Hitler deserved love and deserved admiration. And it's like, well, look up Eva K.

2 (3h 47m 4s):
Right? You have this tiny, tiny Jewish person. It was my cousin who forgave Mangola. If there's anybody worse than Hitler, it might be Mangola. Right? Kanye was in the wrong scene. He wasn't equal to the thing he was taking on. It wasn't his to forgive Hitler and to celebrate Hitler. He's not Jesus. But I feel terrible about what happened to Kanye. and I'll tell you one of the reasons I feel terrible about it, because all of us were enjoying Kanye's mental illness. His Genius comes straight out of his mental illness. And we loved him because he was so unfiltered, so real.

2 (3h 47m 44s):
And so when I see Rihanna holding him up, my feeling is, no, it's not for you to hold him up. I tried to save Kanye. I didn't even say anything about it. Right. And Kanye, I think, turned on me. He stopped returning my phone calls because he felt manipulated. But the fact of the matter was I wanted Kanye to persist. and I didn't want his comment about, I love Hitler and TMZ to take him out because I thought he was a force for good. So yes, there may be Jews that are exploiting him financially, but they're also Jews who trying to save him as I believe Lex tried to do a million times. Yes. And it's like, Hey, we love each other. We're ultimately, we're all family.

2 (3h 48m 26s):
And the thing that I want out of humor is I want our best comedians to be a level or two above where they already are. So that was my complaint about, about Dave Chappelle. It wasn't that Dave Chappelle wasn't funny. It's funny as hell. It's like, I thought beyond that, you should have done a routine that brought us all a hundred percent together. And what you did was, is that you did a routine because you tried to get it at this level. And my opinion of Dave Chappelle is that he's way up here.

1 (3h 48m 56s):
Let me explain how a monologue works. Please. There's a big difference between a monologue and a standup set. If Dave was gonna do a standup set on that. Okay. He would work that at multiple different clubs a night. And he would do it over months. Yeah. It would be something that he would experiment one way. He would add things to it. He would, he would subtract the shit that he didn't like anymore. Yeah. It takes time. It takes time. Well, that's what you me to see. Yes. Right. Well, you've seen it so you, you understand how it goes.

1 (3h 49m 37s):
You showed

2 (3h 49m 38s):
It to me. Yeah.

1 (3h 49m 39s):
But you saw it in actual practice

2 (3h 49m 41s):
On a hundred percent. And, and I, I gotta tell you how much more I value watching you as an intellect, which you often run away from. I'm just a comedian. I watched you look at the crowd as feedback and change your act and change your act and change your act until it's just sang.

1 (3h 49m 57s):
Well, thank you. But you're try, while you're doing that, you're just, you're trying to find the beats. It's a rare art form where you're practicing it in front of people. And the difference between a monologue, which Dave has to prepare for in a very short amount of time versus a set, like if you want him to have a very complex and take on a subject, it's gonna take time. It'll take a little time to figure out. and I mean I can only speak for myself, but my process is months. Yeah. Like I, I have some bits. And then they, they start off great, and then they die and then they come back and then they fucking get, get better. And some bits they, I have to abandon them.

1 (3h 50m 38s):
They're just, they're not working, they're not growing, whatever it is. Got it. and it You don't know until you try it in front of an audience and I try it a bunch of different ways. And sometimes I try and I'm like, oh my God, what the fuck have I got myself into? and I have to pull myself out of the bush. But it's because there's this experimental aspect to doing live standup in front of these crowds. And after a while I've been listening to us talk on podcasts. A lot of fans now know, most people don't, though most people have no idea what's going on. Which is good. Yeah. 'cause you just want 'em to have fun. So, but there's a thing going on where you're trying to sculpt it. If he wanted to take that subject and advance it to the, like this Dave Chappelle, you know, coral belt and Juujitsu level, 'cause that's what he is, like, he would figure out a way to do it.

1 (3h 51m 24s):
And he would have it in a way that wouldn't be objectionable to you. and I don't, I don't, I didn't find it objectionable. I thought it was a hilarious take on something that was current. It was in the news. It was a thing. He was just mocking the fact that Kanye was being attacked. Right. He was one, not diminishing it in any way. He was making light out of there was a target, he hid it. That's how it is. Like that's, and

2 (3h 51m 45s):
That's, I appreciate what you're saying. And my response to this, and this is what I say to my fellow Jews, I say, look, I don't want more, I don't want less Joe Rogan or less Dave Chappelle. I trust these people. I want more. I want to go to the uncomfortable place so that we can all actually open it up. Just like if you were doing MD MDMA assisted therapy. Right? Yeah. The idea is if you don't actually touch the thing that's uncomfortable, which is like, why are you so fucking successful? Why do they have so much money? Right. Why are they in control of this stuff? It's like, I want to go through that and I trust you guys, both of you, and there are probably a few other people that I trust to do it, but it's not many. And the point being, which is that when other people were like quick to say, you know, this is antisemitic, this is uncomfortable, this is this, I had a different response, which is, and, and I think you're teaching me.

2 (3h 52m 35s):
It's not the monologue that you want, you want the routine that is workshopped and perfected.

1 (3h 52m 39s):
Yeah. The, the routine takes a long time.

2 (3h 52m 41s):
Maybe I didn't have that, but I will say the following, I believe that ultimately and I don't wanna make it the job of the community, but ultimately that is what it is, is teach us how to live with each other and love each other when we have these deep suspicions of each other. Right. 'cause we do have these deep suspicions. And right now, everything that our government is doing, which is holding back more and more and more information, mm. Makes us suspicious who's really behind this, what's really going on? Right? Right. And that's, this is a rep recipe for another Holocaust. Because if you're asking, well, who's really behind this? I guarantee you one of the answers is always, it's those guys we are counting on you.

2 (3h 53m 26s):
and I just want you to know that and how much love we have. And it's why it's a, it's, it's not an obligation to stand up for you when you come under fire, like the whole N word thing. It's like I posted one picture with my arm around you. Like any questions, you know, you guys are essential. It's not, it's not just that it's fun to go out and have, 'cause it is fun. But the point is, John Stewart was doing a real job reporting the news when nobody could report the news. And in a large, large measure comedy or MDMA, something like that is necessary for us to examine our bullshit. And it's not a task for you. Because if I say that to you, you're like, dude, you're, you're loading too much onto it.

2 (3h 54m 8s):
I, I know how comedians think. No,

1 (3h 54m 10s):
It's not that. It's that you really only want to take on subjects that you find fascinating in that moment. Like when you write out ideas, it, it, it has to be genuine. It has to be a thing where you're trying to work something through. It

2 (3h 54m 29s):
Can't be an assignment.

1 (3h 54m 30s):
Yeah. I don't understand. A lot of antisemitism and I don't understand a lot of racism. I don't understand it, it doesn't make sense to me. It's, it

2 (3h 54m 39s):
Seems it's

1 (3h 54m 40s):
Natural to you. It's all, it's also there's too many fascinating people from all walks of life. Everyone, the idea that you would categorize people by what geography they're from or what color their skin is, that to me seems so ridiculous and so stupid that I don't entertain it. It doesn't, it's not a thing that, that's what I bounces around my head. So to even to workshop it and defend it to me, it's like, oh my God, there's so many more interesting things about people. What's interesting to me about people is the individual human beings take and the accumulation of all of our takes together when we try to work through this thing. What is this thing that we're experiencing together? Right? What is this? What is culture? What is the learned history of all the human beings that have ever lived before us?

1 (3h 55m 22s):
Like, what is the purpose of our existence here? What is the, the, the, the actual size of the cosmos that we're existing in? Like all of these different things. It's finite nature of our existence. What is good about community and love and friendship? Yeah. What is good about all those things? All those things are interesting to me. But when it gets to like sexual orientation Yeah. Or color, it's like, who cares? I don't care. Well, this is

2 (3h 55m 48s):
What I said about, it's just humans. I said, there's no, I don't, I didn't wanna defend it on any particular thing. My point was I've never seen any bigotry at all because of this radical love. Sorry for saying it, but like, I know that you love all walks of life and, and you don't need anyone to say that. So I was almost embarrassed to say it, but like, to me, we're in an emergency situation, whether you can feel it or not. Like if you look at, there's a guy named, what is it? Oh, he's figured out Leather Apron Club, which is both the name for the Junto that Benjamin Franklin established, which is something that we revere and Leather Apron was the name for Jack the Ripper.

2 (3h 56m 31s):
So it's very clever. Martin Bailey. Right. Jesus. But he, like, he tracks like how many Jewish people does Joe Rogan have on his program? You know? And it's incredibly important that all of us who are in a position to do this, who don't have to necessarily worry about like our next paycheck at a company, help everyone come together. Because right now our government isn't helping us come together. We're all sort of vaguely suspicious of each other. And nobody wants the assignment, in my opinion, of like doing work.

1 (3h 57m 7s):
It's also a very dumb distraction. To be distracted by our differences is so foolish. It's just so unnecessary. Like our, our differences are what empowers us. Because if it wasn't for all the different cultures that exist in the United States, oh man, it's one of the reasons why it's so fascinating here is because this is a country of immigrants. You know, with me, it's my grandparents and you know, with other people, their direct descendants or, or, or, or they've come over here from somewhere else. Everyone here is from somewhere else and we're all interacting with each other. And look at what's been created here. Look at the amount of,

2 (3h 57m 43s):
And we've succeeded for the most part after a tremendous number of missteps.

1 (3h 57m 47s):
Yes.

2 (3h 57m 48s):
Right. And so, partially what you and I are both animated by, which is like, look, we're not even done with the work, but look how far we've come and look at what a shining example of this is to everyone else. And this is like, I wish I could communicate, Joe, how much fear I have right now as a Jewish person on Twitter with the well of hatred that I feel coming up, which has been suppressed. And you wanna know what I want? I want the antisemites to speak up. I want to hear them. I want them to have free speech. You have two choices in a society like this. You can either try to control what people think and what they say, or you can have a cultural penalty for saying something that is horrible.

2 (3h 58m 35s):
and I want us to have free speech with a cultural penalty for these things, as opposed to having to regulate what you can and cannot say. And this issue, like, I dunno, is it Darrell Davies? You know, like these incredibly comm, commendable, courageous people who weighed right into the belly of the beast and bring love. You know, this was the thing that I wanted for Kanye. He was trying to say something else. I don't want him destroyed, I don't want him to continue to destroy himself where he's hanging out with Milo and Nick Fuentes and all this nonsense. He was trying to say Jesus told us to love each other. Right. And he was fucking up the message.

2 (3h 59m 16s):
Right. And the issue is, I don't want a Jewish black rift in the middle of America. Well, you don't

1 (3h 59m 25s):
Want any rifts. Right, right. Not just Jewish, but any rifts at all. And if we take it to your, your, the thing that you were talking about Sure. In the beginning with the fear of what's going on right now with Russia and Ukraine in the absence of this idea that we're supposed to be opposed to other people, right. That people that we don't even fucking know. Right. Like why would there be any conflict at all? Oh, thank you. Between Russian and Ukraine. Why would there be any conflict all between, between us

2 (3h 59m 54s):
And them's? They're almost the same

1 (3h 59m 55s):
Thing. But what is going on? Someone is controlling people.

2 (3h 59m 59s):
People's a game research that we don't understand. and it, and, and you know, this one

1 (4h 0m 2s):
Of, and you're part of it whether you like it or not. And not only, and that's

2 (4h 0m 4s):
What's fucked,

1 (4h 0m 5s):
Only run by psychos. and

2 (4h 0m 7s):
I can tell you, I have so much Ukrainian trauma because my family ran away from like pilgrims. Right? Do I support Ukraine a hundred percent because they were invaded by Russia? Hello? Do I support this at the level that I want World War III to happen? No. No one should want that. No one should want that. And so you're trying to have this complicated thing, which is like, look, there's serious shit in our past, but you're being hurt by a power. But we partially antagonize the power. I'm trying to pull all these and there's a lot of money involved. Oh my God. And not only that, there's a lot of money involved in this. And this is the thing where, this is the thing where I didn't understand with Sam. It's like he says, there's nothing you can tell me about Hunter Bidet.

2 (4h 0m 47s):
It's like Barisma, there is money that flows through Ukraine because it is a place where there are chemical labs and biological labs and there's bhe and payment and all this kind of stuff. And my feeling is we're not allowed to know. We're not allowed to pull it apart. We're just supposed to say, you know, it's on

1 (4h 1m 6s):
The other side of the ideological fence. You're not even allowed to examine

2 (4h 1m 8s):
It. Right. And my feeling is, look, it's crazy. This is my chil I'm on this planet. You're gonna potentially create a nuclear holocaust over something where you're getting paid in a way that I'm not. And if we don't fundamentally figure out how to love each other and to coexist and to celebrate each other, and this is another thing about, like, I'll tell you a Jewish thing. We have this one story we repeat every year in the Passover story, which is our name for Egypt is Miray. And Miray means the narrow places. And it's literally like the birth canal. It's the second birth of the Jewish people. And right now all of earth is miray.

2 (4h 1m 48s):
This is the womb. And you say like, you know somebody, not you, but like somebody says, well, the Jews consider themselves the chosen people. Do you know why we're chosen? We view ourselves as chosen, not because like we're the best of that. He goes, we're responsible. We believe that we are responsible for this planet. And we unleashed. We Jews, Edward Teller and Stanislav Ulla, both Jews unleashed the power of the sun on the planet, which is dooming us to a very bad end. and I believe that we are chosen in the sense that it is our responsibility, not our privilege, not our this, not our that, not that we're on top, but it's our responsibility to shepherd the birth of the human race into an interstellar species.

2 (4h 2m 35s):
And like, does that sound far reaching? Does that sound crazy? A hundred percent. To my ears, that sounds nuts. But ultimately, in my opinion, we feel responsible not for ourselves, not to save ourselves, but for the entire planet. and I hope that other cultures feel the same responsibility, that they feel chosen in the same way. But right now, if you want to ask me, I forego all sorts of financial opportunity because I feel like we unleashed holy hell on earth. That may be a civilization ending thing. And what are we gonna do about it? If we are open? We, we have to realize that what we unleashed to take care of Hitler and Nazism and the, and the, and the barbarity of, of Japan, like the rape of Na King, we now have to deal with for all time.

2 (4h 3m 23s):
And this is like really important to us. We need to shepherd civilization to safety. And if you think about the Passover story, it's a tremendous question. Why repeat this one story that seems bizarre? Like you're enslaved in Egypt, you follow some crazy leader, you go through the Red Sea, you wander around the desert for 40 years and you find the promised land. This is the story of where we are exactly at this minute. It's not like an old fashioned stupid fairytale. It's like you've been telling this story every year for a reason because the people who waited for the bread to rise, that's why we we eat unleavened bread died.

2 (4h 4m 5s):
And the people who understood early, okay, this sounds completely crazy, but you're gonna have to make a break for it through the Red Sea, wander around in pain before you actually get to safety. That is the story of right now. and it, to bring it back to the UFOs, my feeling about this is I'm largely on this program right now, not to promote a book. I don't have a Patreon yet. Maybe one day, who knows, there's nothing I'm promoting other than the fact that right now we are in so much mortal danger as a human species. Think about everything that you love, whether it's drown in my own tears or box B minor mass or the works of Shakespeare, right?

1 (4h 4m 45s):
Gone forever

2 (4h 4m 46s):
And

1 (4h 4m 47s):
Back to the stone.

2 (4h 4m 48s):
HI refuse and I and this is what I've, I've, I've had such a hard time. It's like, well, Eric, you're so arrogant. You're so, you're insane, you're crazy. It's like, no, I know what time it is. and I love you and I love all you people. We're getting outta here and we're gonna do it. And we're not gonna embrace any of this kind of stupid division. It's now time. It's like this is Shackleton's story. Shackleton stepped up when any normal human being would say, look, take whatever resources you have and have a good time. 'cause you're done. It's like, no, you know, we're down. It's the ninth inning. This is a bad situation. This is the time that legends are made.

2 (4h 5m 28s):
And we're sitting around worried about like, can I get the Tesla with Golding doors? It's like, fuck that shit. Now is the time for legends. And whether you know that, that this is the time or not, we have to come together. And that's one of the reasons that like that I, I, I wanted you to understand how much I appreciated what you've done for underprivileged groups. People who are hurting people don't really understand how big your heart is because you hide it. And that's one of the things I wanted for the Jewish people and I wanted from you, which is like, more Chappelle, more Joe, Rogan, more humor, more love. Let's get through this thing. Let's, let's stop blaming each other.

2 (4h 6m 10s):
You know?

1 (4h 6m 10s):
Let's stop blaming each other and let's go pee again, I wrap this up. We're at like four hours. Dude, we've been rambling. You've been rambling. You've been saying some brilliant things though. and I appreciate you very much. and I appreciate you coming on here always. And I don't think we got any closer to understanding what the fuck UFOs are, but I understand more of it. Thank you my friend. I'm in there. Appreciate you very much. Appreciate it. Goodbye everybody.