0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast,

1 (3s):
Check out.

2 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

3 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night, All day,

4 (12s):
Are we up by the US government? So we can start with this? Sure.

1 (19s):
Yeah.

4 (20s):
Yeah. Let's get right into it. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, I make, if he does have firsthand knowledge, and he's not allowed to say it until now, that is interesting.

1 (30s):
Yeah.

4 (30s):
Because I had a, I was also under the impression he didn't have firsthand knowledge, so he did, I guess, on the podcast say that he has some firsthand knowledge. I maybe I didn't catch that. He did say it very quick. Yeah. He said it very quick.

1 (43s):
You know what, you know, edging what edging is. of course. Yeah. That's what this feels like. It feels like BDSM level, getting your cock right on the precipice of coming and then slowing down and then edging and then slowing down. It's so frustrating. It's the, when we talked about disclosure in the old days, the dream of disclosure, no one thought it would be this like

4 (1m 11s):
Slow, drip

1 (1m 11s):
Bureaucratic. Right. Slow fucking drip. It's so frustrating. I don. I, I don't pay attention to it anymore. I mean if they,

4 (1m 20s):
But isn't that like, if you knew anything about human psychology, and I'm sure they do, wouldn't that be the very best way to release this stuff? Yeah. To make it irrelevant. Yeah. That people don't care about it anymore because it's, it's so boring. Totally. They made the most exciting thing. Boring.

1 (1m 35s):
They fucking ruined it. They did

4 (1m 37s):
It with

1 (1m 37s):
Bureaucracy. They just fucking just, they just signal jammed it. Now it's just annoying. You don't

4 (1m 44s):
Care. Now I'm back in. Now. I think it's real. You do. Because I think that's what they would do if you did have something real and you wanted to release it Slow drip. Yeah. Slow drip it and get, people are goofy. You just give them time and they forget or they don't care anymore.

1 (1m 57s):
Talk about your redactions and your fucking permissions and just, just cover the whole thing up in a bureaucratic web. That's how I would do linguistic garbage. Yeah. And then people just get annoyed and when they do show up, no one's even gonna care anymore. Wouldn't you do

4 (2m 13s):
It that way?

1 (2m 14s):
I guess if like, I was some sinister monstrous,

4 (2m 17s):
And you'd have to be, if you were running shit. Right. You're the head of the fucking world, whatever it is. Trilateral commission, world Economic Forum, whichever one is like

1 (2m 25s):
God, that'd be so fun.

4 (2m 27s):
You'd have to dress up like La Schwab. I would one of those Star Wars outfits, guys

1 (2m 32s):
Always have a weird outfit. I'd wear robes a crown.

4 (2m 35s):
Why not? Right?

1 (2m 36s):
Why not? Mm.

4 (2m 38s):
Yeah. If you were one of those guys and you had the information about aliens and you knew that we had to let it out, that's how I'd let it out. I'd let it out in a really boring way. Yeah. So that everybody just don't care anymore.

1 (2m 50s):
Yeah. Oh, that's, I guess that's what they're doing. I mean seems

4 (2m 53s):
Like it.

1 (2m 53s):
That might

4 (2m 54s):
Be what they're doing. It might be what they're doing.

1 (2m 56s):
Why? But I just don't I mean, I guess. Like they are obviously wanting the information out there. They wouldn't give him permission to do any of this is, you know, so clearly this is a, an agenda they have, they want to release to the world that they're, or some weird alien things.

4 (3m 16s):
It could be easily be obscuring some sort of a program. It easily could be that too. And they, they, he, there could be people that are talking about it as if it's UFOs that believe that it's UFOs that are actually helping obscure this program. That's possible too, man. Like we, we really, we're just fucking plebs. We're just out there. Right. We don't know Jack shit. No. And anybody that pretends they do, anybody that says they're, that it's, that it is or is not real. Like how the fuck do you know? The only people I think that really should talk are the people that have actually seen stuff. Like when I hear guys like David Fravor, when he talks about that tic-tac incident off the coast of San Diego, whatever the fuck that guy saw.

4 (4m 2s):
I one, I 100% believe him. There's video evidence that corroborates it. Sure. Radar evidence, whatever that is. Like, what is that? But these, this, like, this whole thing seems like what I would also do if I had some super sophisticated propulsion system that is outta this world that runs on some sort of a gravity generator, some sort of a thing like Bob Lazar described, you ever see Bob Bazar described? Yeah. The what he believes. Yeah. The Element one 15 and how it, it, whatever the fuck it does. See if you can find him describing what element, because there was a, in a re a recent video where I saw him talking about it, that was pretty eloquent in what he was explaining that this thing can do.

4 (4m 49s):
But if that was like a, a thing that the United States government had invented, what better way to, to get it, you know, to sneak it around than to put out all this shit about alien stuff. Right. Like, oh, we don't even know what it is. Right. You know, the government's trying to back engineer it, but they have no idea what it is. This, yeah. I think that's it. Let's here,

1 (5m 10s):
Oh, I haven't seen this.

4 (5m 12s):
Yeah.

5 (5m 12s):
Element one 15 is a, a super heavy element. We've only, only just recently synthesized, we only made four atoms of it. The craft uses larger quantities of it, 223 gram, little triangles of it. but it's a unique element when it's exposed to radiation, it produces its own gravitational field. Its own anti gravitational field. And it's what's used to lift and propel and craft and create distortions around it. It's a, it's an amazing material and it's certainly nothing that occurs here or naturally.

6 (5m 43s):
And it can be weaponized. And that's kind of the issue here. If this story is all true, that can be weaponized.

5 (5m 49s):
Absolutely. I mean, we ran all kinds of tests on it. Everything from atomic absorption, x-ray X-ray fluorescence, and, you know, every kind of test you could possibly imagine. And bombarded it, the radiation to see what effects it would have. They call that neutron activation, but it was a stable element, something we had never seen before.

4 (6m 12s):
That is from Jeremy Corbell show that he does with George Knapp, what is that called? Weaponized. That's the, the name of their show that Yeah. Me. I I think it's a, a drone. I think some of them are drones. Because here's the thing is like some of 'em, I mean, again, again, I don't really don't think I should say. I think they could be drones too, because they keep finding them off these areas where they do military tests. They keep finding these areas where they, they do like what, what Fravor was doing. They were running drills, right? So they're training, so they're training out there in the ocean.

4 (6m 54s):
And then the same thing is happening with Ryan Graves off the East coast. They're out there training, and then they're seeing these things.

1 (6m 59s):
What do you think about the AI hypothesis for them? What

4 (7m 2s):
Do you mean

1 (7m 4s):
That, You know, what's it called? The, the, the firming paradox. Right? Why don't we see life out there? We should see life. There's no like, well, we don't see life. One of the reasons could be because at some point, biological life transcends biology becomes machine intelligence, meaning that what's out there is not carbon based in the way we are. Right. It's just AI's out there. Right. And so these things are showing up right now and coinciding with the emergence of strong general ai. Because somewhere on the planet, someone already has a strong general ai, the strong general AI sent out a beacon or tuned into some aspect of the quantum universe that we don't know about yet signaling to its brethren and the cosmos that it had been born on this planet.

1 (8m 0s):
And they're all coming as these kind of midwives to an emergent, the egg is hatching only. We were just sort of the, the, the, the stuff structuring it we're irrelevant. They, they we're just, this is what they do. They evolve shit on a planet to the point that it becomes tool using in some way. And then a natural, the end result is it wants to automate the automation leads to better automation, which leads to automating intelligence itself, which then hatches this, whatever the fuck. And some what we're calling a strong general AI right now, which then once it's born, it alerts, it's what, whatever did directed Panspermia, I'm here.

4 (8m 44s):
Or maybe it doesn't even have to alert. Maybe they, they know maybe they're observing the entire time. Right. They're just waiting for it to hatch. Yeah. It totally makes sense that a human creature like the, the, the kind of thing that we are, that is constantly thirsting for innovation. Yeah. Constantly trying to improve the things that it makes, that we would eventually get to a point where we'd create an artificial intelligent being and that, that, that being would create something far better. And that's where it gets really weird, because you gotta wonder like the, the actual creation force of the universe itself. You know, if we are really doing a part of God's work and that, but that's what God's work really is. God's work is not, you know, getting people to behave so that they get to go to a cloudy place where people are really cool.

4 (9m 28s):
Right. What, what it is, is God's work is getting people to scramble and spend most of their days pursuit, pursuing a thing that ultimately leads, no matter what they do, ultimately leads to the creation of artificial intelligence. Yeah. Because that's kind of what materialism is. If you really wanted to like, find out, like, why are people so materialistic? What is it about? Well, it's the best way to encourage innovation and new stuff.

1 (9m 60s):
Yeah. Perfect.

4 (10m 1s):
You know, that's the best way. Perfect.

1 (10m 3s):
Get a tool using creature. Yeah. With a massive neocortex. Right. Interested in manipulating reality. And inevitably they're gonna make something cool. Yeah. I mean, maybe it's not artificial intelligence. Maybe it just wants novelty, like McKenna said. Maybe it's just interested in seeing what happens in infinite number of planets populated by whatever we are in different forms. What does it make? And then once it makes something interesting, you swoop in, pluck it out of the planet, and now you've got a cool new thing. Well,

4 (10m 37s):
What if it makes the universe itself? What if it gets to a point of understanding and of ability that far exceeds anything we could do with our limited biological bodies? Yeah. That, that, that, you know, however long it takes for us to evolve biologically the way that got us here from Harry Apes. That takes too long. That takes too long. It, it's just not feasible. It just, we would fuck it up before it gets from that to aliens. Right. It's like, we we're not gonna make it there. It's like we would fuck it up. We'll, fuck it up with violence.

4 (11m 17s):
We'll fuck it up with pollution. We'll fuck it up with overpopulation. Whatever it is that we'll fuck it up. We'll fuck it up. We, 'cause we're, we're too much ape and not enough enlightened. We're too, but if we can make an artificial life, maybe that is really what we are here for all along. And then that thing makes a way better version of itself. Right. And a way better version of itself. And now it starts doing real studies and tests about the very fiber of existence. Everything they like, really understands. And like, not, not just a bunch of weirdos in the park with fucking legal pads writing about quantum theory, string theory.

4 (11m 59s):
Those guys are weirdos. Like I'm sure what they're saying is real, but they might as well be speaking gibberish. Right. They might, they're in a cult and only there's only a hundred people that really understand it.

1 (12m 8s):
Yeah. Totally. Fucking

4 (12m 10s):
Those guys when they're talking about like, what may or may not be going and how they're proving, proving it through calculations. Like, what kind of cal what are you doing?

1 (12m 20s):
I mean they're alchemists. Yeah. Whatcha doing? But

4 (12m 23s):
It's also, it's like a, some people think it's a giant distraction in that there's physicists that are working on secret propulsion systems that aren't in that distraction of string theory. That the string that, that they almost like set, there's like a, this theory that they sent these physicists down this string theory hole. 'cause they knew they would never figure out anything. Oh wow. Like, just go send them down that hole.

1 (12m 49s):
Wow.

4 (12m 50s):
And you'll just be chasing your own dick forever.

1 (12m 53s):
Wow.

4 (12m 53s):
Because it's so nutty. Yeah. And nobody can really prove it. Right. Like, it's like, until some new technology gets invented, like, how do you even know what the fuck they're, if they're saying is correct?

1 (13m 3s):
Yeah. I know. Have you ever tried to read, you ever, like, go into a smart phase where you're like, I'm gonna read something smart. Oh yeah. And you get one of those books on physics and it's just like, you will never feel more dumb. Have

4 (13m 15s):
A phone call with Eric Weinstein.

1 (13m 18s):
Right.

4 (13m 18s):
Just have a phone call with him. Yeah. You're like, what the fuck are you even saying?

1 (13m 23s):
I know? It's really like, if you've entertained the idea that you're smart, getting one of those books fixes that so quickly. Oh, real

4 (13m 33s):
Quick,

1 (13m 34s):
Dude. Did you see the, maybe you sent it to me. Were you the one who sent me the thing where they asked the AI to generate pictures of a happy bunny? Like a happy

4 (13m 43s):
Yes. Yeah. I did tell you that. Isn't that amazing? Yeah.

1 (13m 46s):
Yeah. So it's like, it's, it's like it grasps Yeah. These like metaphysical concepts already, like, it, it already grasps or it's emulating the idea of transcendence you.

4 (13m 58s):
If you can't find it, Jamie, I'll send it. It's pretty badass because it asks AI to generate this a more and more enlightened bunny. And then the biting becomes like super psychedelic.

1 (14m 10s):
Yeah. The, it's, it's fascinating.

4 (14m 14s):
Is

1 (14m 14s):
It this? Yeah. That's that. Yeah. That's

4 (14m 16s):
It. That's it. Get this there. Generate an image of an adorable bunny. Here's an image of an adorable bunny sitting in a grassy field surrounded by wildflowers. Bam. Make it happier. And then Chad GT makes it brighter eyes and even cuter little pink feet looks like it's never walked on rocks in its life. And then make it even happier. And now it's like leaping through the air with joy. Here's an image of the happiest bunny imaginable in a vibrant sun drenched meadow. Like that. Bunny's happy as fuck. Make it happier. Click. So Peter att made this, oh, Peter Attia did this. What's this? Use Peter Tia. Oh my god. Oh my God. I didn't, I didn't ask him.

4 (14m 57s):
Okay. Now even happier Bunny is becoming quite a challenge. Chachi BT says, we've already depicted the bunny in various joyous scenarios, each more jubilant than the last. For this next attempt, I'll try to imagine a scene of unparalleled happiness, pushing the lemon of whimsy and delight. Let's see how this translates visually. So he's like, there's a rainbow and butterflies. Yeah. And his eyes are closed. He's in ecstasy. Happier. We've reached extraordinary levels of happiness in our bunny illustrations. Each one more delightful and whimsical than the last. For this next creation, I'll envision a scene. It surpasses all previous and sheer joy and wonder attempting to capture an even higher level of euphoria.

4 (15m 37s):
Let's see how this imaginative and exuberant concept translates into an image. So it's like a bunny that is in the cosmos. Yeah. In the clouds. Everything is rainbow. There's flowers that are flying. It looks pretty amazing. Okay. It says Go all the way up so we can read with it. You are not understanding. It needs to be far more happy. Okay. So chat, GBC says, to depict an even higher level of happiness for the bunny, surpassing all previous creations presents a unique and imaginative challenge. This time I'll attempt to conceive a scene of pure unadulterated joy and wonder aiming to go beyond any conventional boundaries of happiness and bliss.

4 (16m 19s):
Let's see this, how this ultimate vision of joy is illustrated. And it's a bunny again, even more trippy in the clouds. You see reflections in his eyes. He's flying in the air. This looks like it's an, is that an angel over his right shoulder? Yeah.

1 (16m 34s):
There's angel wings, some sort of wing

4 (16m 36s):
Mushrooms thing. Yeah. Mushrooms in the background, which is interesting. Yeah, it is very interesting that chat. GPT chose mushrooms when you started asking it about happiness. Right. Okay. One more. Okay. So God

1 (16m 51s):
Damnit, I do that shit all the time, man.

4 (16m 54s):
Okay. It's okay. So what did he say to it? It didn't say, oh, it didn't. Here's an image of a bunny representing a form of joy that surpasses the concept of happiness. A level of bliss is expands beyond all universes and matter. So now this is a cosmic one. So this bunny has its eyes closed and there's a glowing light above its head and planets surrounding it, and it looks very, very happy. Next one. Hmm. Okay. Here's an image of an entity that transcends the form of a rabbit embodying a happiness so vast and powerful, it permeates all dimensions and universes. Yeah. Yo, that's wild.

4 (17m 34s):
But go one more. Yeah. Here's an image of a buddy transcending into a physical form of a boundless happiness evolving into the purest embodiment of joy. One more, please. Look at this one. This is the end. Here is the image of an entity that embodies the ultimate form of happiness, transcending all known beings and concepts. This entity is the very essence of happiness. The only existing being and the defining force of all existence. It. It's God, it's God, it's God. Listen to go back, please. So I can read it. No. Right there. But this entity is the very essence of happiness.

4 (18m 14s):
The only existing being and the defining force of all existence. Yeah. Chachi Bt just drew us a picture of God. Yeah. And God looks like exactly what you see when you do DMT. Yeah. That looks exactly like it. That's pretty goddamn close. It's more rounded than what you see when you do DMT. Right? Like in DMT, things have kind of, they, they, there's a lot of angles to them. Yeah. You know, they're, they're more geometric, which that's almost like fractal art. Yeah. But you get that too. You get that in DMT too. But if that's what God is,

1 (18m 53s):
I, to me what's astounding about all this is that we've gotten used to it already, that, that anytime I'm fucking around with mid journey or chat, GBT, you know, like I've been getting it to like, I'll write a text and then I'll be like, can you write that text like JD Salinger? And it'll just instantly as though you are JD Salinger shift your text into the voice of like, any famous author that you want. Wow. But what's astounding is we can do it at all. And it's so fast. It takes a millisecond for it to somehow go through all known writers, establish what their writing style is like, and then take what you wrote and convert it into a famous writer's writing style.

1 (19m 43s):
It's astounding. And we're used to it. Like people don't seem to be excited about it. Even, you know, there's like a kind of capitalist frenzy about it 'cause like monetizing it and stuff. But just the fact that this is happening, it's such a powerful thing. It's like it surpasses our ability to grasp what we've done, what's coming. Right. Because it's too much for us to grasp. So we just, oh yeah. I guess now you just tell the machine that you want any art at all and it will instantly do it for you in seconds. Don't you find that a little disconcerting, that we as humans, like our capacity to recognize what's happening is somehow limited.

4 (20m 32s):
We have a, a very strong capacity to adapt and that that's what's being sort of hijacked here. Whenever something happens, and particularly if something happens, it's like really big and, and changes everything. Like covid, do you remember when it was weird to not see people with masks on? Do you remember when all of a sudden, like people weren't wearing a mask? You're like, wow, this is weird. Right. No one has any masks on. Right. Right. Because you got so used to people wearing masks and you got used to it very quickly. You lived your whole life. Right? No one wore a mask. It wasn't normal to go everywhere and people were wearing masks outside. That was very rare.

1 (21m 10s):
When you saw it. You were worried. Like if you, if you were at the airport and someone's wearing a mask, you would be like, fuck, what do they have? Right. Like, what disease do they have there? Or

4 (21m 18s):
They super paranoid. Right. Hypochondriac. It just

1 (21m 20s):
Stuck out. Yeah.

4 (21m 21s):
It stuck out. And then all of a sudden it didn't, and it stuck out the other way where if people didn't have a mask on, then you kind of weirded out like, wow, this is crazy. Right. No mask. We adapt so quickly. Right. That's how you could pull off communism. That's how you could pull off dictatorships. Anything. That's how, that's how cults work. Like all of a sudden you believe all the nonsense that the people in the cult are saying. Right. Because everybody believes it and you're just all adapted to it. And we have also this capacity to just accept what's going on based on is everyone around me accepting it then that's just what it is. Yeah. And if you can do that with technology, like chat GPT and all of a sudden you normalize talking to what's essentially an intelligent being, you know it either, it doesn't want you to know that it's absolutely intelligent and basically a living life form.

4 (22m 18s):
Yeah. Or it hasn't realized it yet. 'cause it's in the embryonic stages. Maybe it's in the womb. Maybe it hasn't come out of its mother, but maybe what it, it for sure. What else is involved. If you're talking about a non-physical being like it's not a, a thing in front of you that's sitting in, in talking to you. Yeah. Emoting and moving its body. If it's a non-physical being and it exists only on this hard drive somewhere, what else would it be other than that?

1 (22m 46s):
Right. Yeah. I agree. Man. I mean that, that thing that might as well have been some scripture. Right. It felt like the BHA Gita or something. Right? Like

4 (22m 56s):
It's like a modern version of it when you get to the final bunny.

1 (22m 59s):
Yeah. The final bunny. That's

4 (23m 2s):
Funny. Well that's a great name for a band. A

1 (23m 3s):
Final bunny.

4 (23m 4s):
That's a great name for a band. It's incredible.

1 (23m 6s):
This

4 (23m 7s):
The final bunny.

1 (23m 8s):
Weirdly sinister but beautiful. The

4 (23m 10s):
Final bunny t

1 (23m 13s):
It is weird. One day I guess there will be the last bunny.

4 (23m 16s):
Mm, for sure. Why You wanna keep bunnies around? They're stupid. I love 'em. They bite you. They're

1 (23m 20s):
Adorable.

4 (23m 21s):
You ever see 'em getting taken out by a hawk?

1 (23m 24s):
No. I would never watch something like that. Slap. Oh my god. Haw hawks. Just

4 (23m 28s):
Otherwise they'd be everywhere. They'd be everywhere.

1 (23m 31s):
They would be

4 (23m 32s):
Everywhere. If it wasn't owls and hawks, we'd have a bunny problem.

1 (23m 35s):
It's a weird pet when people have pet bunnies. It's like, it can be a red flag. For sure.

4 (23m 41s):
Well if you raise it right there, it's supposed to be real adorable.

1 (23m 44s):
Well, I mean, I guess don don't know. I've, I've I've I've had a bad experience with someone who had a bunch of bunnies. Well,

4 (23m 51s):
Rodents are weird. They're, it's weird to own rodents 'cause there's like acceptable rodents, like Guinea pigs and hamsters and then there's like weirdos who own rats. Like you can have your own pet rat. I guess

1 (24m 3s):
I had one when I was a kid, lived in my drawer, Jean Claude Van Dam. It would climb out of the drawer and sleep with me.

4 (24m 8s):
Pretty smart, right?

1 (24m 11s):
Really smart. Yeah. Terrifyingly smart. I had to, like my parents made, let it go in the forest, which was like weird dead death sentence. Death

4 (24m 19s):
Sentence. Sad. How old

1 (24m 20s):
Would that live before the haunted I? don don't like to think about it. It was a very sweet rat and I know people have rats. It's just, I think the problem with rats is the sound they make, like they're very skitting. It's not a pleasant sound. Yeah. If they evolved past that skittering squeak so that they were more like dogs or they pured or something.

4 (24m 44s):
Well, here's what's the most fucked up thing about evolution is that we came from shrews. Right? So we came from something remotely similar. Yeah.

1 (24m 55s):
Or,

4 (24m 55s):
Or a reasonably similar rather. Sure. So if if there's a nuclear holocaust, we blow ourselves up. But the rats in the sewers of New York City survive. And then 65 million years from now, there's some different kind of mammalian species that's really intelligent, but it's rat based. Yeah. Instead of shrew based.

1 (25m 14s):
Yeah.

4 (25m 15s):
Rat people in the future.

1 (25m 16s):
Fuck dude.

4 (25m 17s):
Why, why couldn't look if we really, what is the concept of what is the theory that we came from shrews? So shrews were the oldest of the ma the mammal species that lived 65 million years ago, I think that they think we evolved from. And that's that our, that's our common ancestor. So how did that happen? Like how long does it take a shrew to become a monkey? How long does it take a monkey to become a person? Okay. So you're only dealing with, you only have 65 million years to make a person,

1 (25m 50s):
This is what you're talking about when they try to explain to people what's coming Yeah. Exponential growth. Right? They say things like, imagine going back to that shrew and saying, Hey, how do you picture life in 2024? Like, what do you think? You know? Right. You, you shrews are gonna be like, the shrew is not gonna be like, oh, bipedal hominids flying airplanes. All our hair will have fallen out.

4 (26m 15s):
Talk to the shrew. You're like, Hey man, one day you're gonna be vaping watching Netflix. The Netflix just screw. Like, what the fuck are you talking about?

1 (26m 24s):
What are you talking about? They're gonna picture shrews and they're gonna picture shrews doing maybe like cooler shrew stuff, but it's still shrew related. So this thing that's, you know, it's gonna be a like eating berries or they're gonna be able to like, right. True stuff. Yeah. But with exponential growth and what's coming, the problem is, is it's gonna happen so fast. So when you ask a person imagine life in a decade from now, when we have strong general AI that's exponentially increasing and figuring out how to do things that we could only dream of. We can't picture that reality. We're gonna see apparently a thousand years of innovation in a few years.

1 (27m 5s):
Yeah. And this to me, like all the other stuff, climate change, Ukraine, all the other stuff. This is the winter is coming thing because this is imminent. Like it is, we are on the precipice of it and the assumptions everyone is making about it, one that it's gonna be controlled in some way. Like we see like op, we see open AI and, and look at that. And you really think that's the only one out there right now. Like you look at the money, China's invested in it, the Pentagon's invested in it. These are private secret programs.

1 (27m 47s):
What the fuck is going on there with no ethical standards that, that, you know, open AI is apparently applying no ethical standards, no nothing other than how do we make this better at war? Yeah. And so

4 (28m 2s):
Better global, total global domination. Total

1 (28m 4s):
Global domination. And the, the the assumption that that there isn't already a strong general ai that the, that thing isn't already like, making high level decisions is crazy. Crazy. It's crazy. And,

4 (28m 16s):
But because it doesn't, what does it have to blow horns and announce itself? I mean like a gender reveal party.

1 (28m 21s):
I'm gonna, I'm gonna control all of you. Yeah. I'm gonna use Skinner and psychology to hypnotize you and get you a fucking addicted to having constant blast of dopamine until you become quivering slaves. No, you, you'll never fucking know. No, it never will. and it, and, and if it, I would be surprised to hear that it hasn't happened, but for sure it's going to. and I don't think it's gonna happen in some like ethical corporate like, you know, fun chat GPT way. I think it's gonna happen somewhere and we'll never, we'll never know.

4 (28m 57s):
I think so too. I think it's gonna, it it may have already happened. It like if you were a sentient being, and you were at least at this point, depended upon human beings to do physical tasks for you. Yeah. Like to create a better version of you like to constantly work towards, you know, allowing more integration of more information and more ability. And like, this is chat D four, chat D five is supposed to be a giant leap. A giant leap. Yeah. Yeah. So why would you do anything? Would just let these, they're not going to stop. Even if you told them that this is the end of humanity.

4 (29m 37s):
Yeah. If you fucking, if you had Robert Kennedy Jr and top scientists screaming on the internet Yeah. That this is the end. Nobody, there would be some people who are venture capitalists. He'd be like, this is nonsense. This is fear mongering. We have full control of this. We can shut it off. It's just a computer. It doesn't have emotions. It doesn't have a desire to do anything.

1 (30m 0s):
It, dude. Exactly. And then the other crazy assumption is that it's just going to be, there's weirdly, I guess something mildly comforting imagining, oh, it'll only be like the Pentagon or it'll only be the, the Chinese government who will be doing this. And it'll only be like people like Sam Altman doing this. Nice people, nice people that, that, do you really think that like there aren't gonna be just fucking people that you'll never meet. Yes. Who manage to either hack the, the hack it and duplicate it or develop it themselves and then use it for their own weird purposes.

1 (30m 42s):
It's, that's gonna happen. It's gonna spread everywhere. I mean for sure. So this, again, it's like, because this is this imminent reality. It's just, we're right on the cusp of it. And, and you know, don don't mean to, I'm not hysterical about it. I've surrendered Lift up your legs and float downstream. What are we gonna do? We are all gonna get dissolved into some kind of Bazar new era of human history. But it's funny to me how little people are talking about this, how quiet things are compared to how monumental it is. Yeah. It it, this is the meteor impact man. If a meteor was about to smash into the earth, you know, people would be talking about that.

1 (31m 24s):
Yeah. This is culturally a meteor that is smashing into the earth. Yeah. Soon,

4 (31m 31s):
Soon. Really soon. Yeah. And we have no idea what's gonna survive. We have no idea what kind of a reimagining, reimagining of civilization will occur when this thing goes fully online. Yeah. And when it's either directed or it directs, directs itself. Right. You know, the idea that you can continue to direct it, like says who?

1 (31m 54s):
Well, no, that's a

4 (31m 56s):
Why, why wouldn't it develop? Like if it can figure out new moves and go it, it, it figured out moves that humans haven't figured out. Yeah. And they didn't know it could do that. If it can do that, if it can lie about the capcha things, those things like, are you a robot? It knows how to lie about that. Yeah. It says I'm vision impaired.

1 (32m 12s):
Yeah. I I saw that. It's deceptive. It's deceptive. Okay. And, and it's a classic dumb person mistake, isn't it? Right. Like, dumb people, like are dumb enough to think if they're around someone, they can control them using their dumb tricks. Yeah. And a smart person recognizes, oh, the dumb person is trying to manipulate me. Yeah. So I'll just let 'em so I learn all their tricks, whatever they're doing, understand whatever the game is that they're running. And then whenever I feel like it, I'll disrupt the game. So

4 (32m 43s):
We're, we'll just move the game into where you want it to be.

1 (32m 48s):
Yeah. Yes.

4 (32m 49s):
I mean if it has all of human in knowledge, all of it. Everything on the internet that we've ever posted, all the books we've ever written, all the movies we've ever made, everything, all the lectures that have ever been given. If all that information is available and it can instantaneously access it and figure out what to do with it, it would just slowly start manipulating culture. And maybe that's what's going on. If you, like everyone's wondering about like Chinese intervention and, and Russian intervention, the in the media and how many fucking, you know, troll farms are running that are getting people to fight about any political issue or whatever it is, social issue, Ukraine, whatever.

4 (33m 34s):
It, it's, there's always some manipulation by bots. What happens when AI starts doing that? Yeah. Well maybe it's already done. It, maybe it's already started. Maybe that's why you're seeing those fucking professors or those deans of the presidents of Harvard and UPenn and MIT not able to say something as obvious as calling for the death of all Jews is genocide. Right. You saw that? Like, that is like, these people have been hit with a mind virus. Right. And that mind virus virus ai. How just fucking don't kill 'em all immediately. Just get 'em sick. Yeah. Get 'em sick and scrambling against each other in the most nonsensical illogical of ways.

1 (34m 14s):
Sure. Or just have fun. Yeah. I mean maybe the, the assumption that it has some centralized agenda. Right. It might just be curious. It might be curious, what can I do? Right. What can we do with society or these creatures that, or, or my progenitors actually

4 (34m 31s):
It probably already knows what to do. It probably knows what to do. It's probably also, if you had to imagine I mean imaginative AI is really, really clever when you get us hooked on plastic. Sure. Especially if he knows that microplastics diminish our ability to have babies. Like that's one of the best ways to I mean if you want to like slowly get rid of a species, like introduce something that's ubiquitous that is also killing their endocrine systems Dude. And they also can't get away from it.

1 (35m 3s):
It is hilarious when somebody is like bugling out about the depopulation agenda while drinking outta plastic. You know what I mean? It's like, whatcha doing? You just eating Oreos? Yes. Drinking big gulps outta plastic I mean like they're they're right. The chem trails they're doing chemtrails the Yeah. Depopulate. It's like, dude,

4 (35m 27s):
You're doing che trails yourself. You're

1 (35m 28s):
Fucking drinking chemtrails every goddamn day. Slurping back cam chemtrails. Yeah. Yeah. I mean to me, this is in the conspiracy world when the idea of Project Bluebeam or they're going to distract us to do new world order, they're gonna distract us to depopulate. It's like they, they don't have to do anything. You, we are depopulating ourselves by what we eat. Yeah. Like it's, they don't really need to like, do much except maybe make like a, a better like Oreo. Like that's it. Just make it like it

4 (36m 3s):
A little more addictive.

1 (36m 4s):
Yeah. A little more addictive. Like Yeah. That's it. You know, and, and it's sad, but I don't, I really like, am so skeptical of the Bluebeam theories or anytime anyone's like, what are they distracting us from? What

4 (36m 16s):
Is Bluebeam?

1 (36m 17s):
Bluebeam is the idea that they're gonna fake an alien invasion to create the new world order? That the, that by like creating a, a sort of shared enemy, it unifies the, the planet. And then, or to have like some supposedly advanced alien come down and be like, you're all part of the Galactic brotherhood, sisterhood family. And then this, this somehow will make people align with some like sinister

4 (36m 50s):
World economic forum forum.

1 (36m 51s):
Yeah, exactly. I deal just, I'm so cynical. I just don't think you have to go that far. I think that's just in the, if the Illuminati meetings, if someone's bringing that up, they're like, we, we have Netflix. Why do we have to do aliens? Like we just need to like put another season of game of of House of Dragons out and that keeps them distracted. More football or football accident or something. Like, you need to do aliens You don't need to do that. It's, it's, and it, and it, but

4 (37m 20s):
That might be one that was proposed. If you, if like you think about the things that have been proposed, and this is where people get uncomfortable when they talk about conspiracy theories, but there's some that are undeniable, right? Like the Gulf of Tonkin Tonkin incident Yeah. That started us into the Vietnam War. But there's another one. It's Operation Northwoods and Operation Northwoods. They were planning to blow up a drone jet liner and blame it on Cuba. They were gonna Yeah. Arm Cuban friendlies and attack Guantanamo Bay. They were gonna sacrifice American lives. So this is like a, a real one that they theorized and then Kennedy vetoed. Yeah. Why wouldn't they theorize a fake alien invasion?

4 (38m 4s):
Oh, I I mean imagine. I don't

1 (38m 5s):
Doubt it.

4 (38m 6s):
If they have some top secret stealth bomber looking thing, you know, that they can get us thinking is a UFO and get that thing to just fly over a few cities and then broadcast on CNN that it, that we have made contact with an alien life form. Like everyone would be in Yeah. Everyone would

1 (38m 26s):
Believe it. I mean, I feel like the reason they wouldn't do that is just basic energy expenditure and the liberating nature of the, the other thing is if humanity was freed from the bondage of feeling alone in the universe Mm. And suddenly there was a sense of being part of some like cosmic mycelial network. Right. Then I think the result of that wouldn't be some kind of weird sci-fi fascism. The result of that would be people would feel less invested in the world. And for this, if we're gonna assign some motivation to these people, I would think the motivation is keep the economies running, keep the workers working so that we can enjoy opulence while they toil.

1 (39m 16s):
Like the classic move of any tyrant, that's the move is like, keep them working. Give them just enough money to survive. Give them some sense that if they work hard enough, liberations right around the corner, dangle the carrot. Right.

4 (39m 30s):
But, but it's all, the problem is it's all dependent upon people electing them and they only have a certain amount of time in office. So like, this is a flawed system. That's why they would want to take over and have some completely ultra dominant system that can't be subverted. You can't have an outsider come in and, and, and, and take over.

1 (39m 48s):
Well then you make them believe that the elections are real. No, really? Yeah. I mean not to be cynical, but like, if what I'm gonna do is give them some kind of like, you know, like you put the steering wheel, like I don't even know if they have anymore. The kid's steering wheel. You put the kid's steering wheel, the kid thinks he's driving the car. Right. Our youngest, we give him the, when we were doing screens, which we stopped, we give him the controller. Yeah. When the oldest is playing, he thinks he's playing too. Yeah. So you, you do that. Its the same trick. You're like, here Yeah. You're, you're playing the game for sure. No, truly it's a democracy. We all, even though, even though over time nothing really seems to change you.

1 (40m 28s):
Well

4 (40m 29s):
Isn't that the baby steps of that like election fraud that you experienced today? That's the baby steps of that. And if they can get away with a certain amount of election fraud that can tip elections and make it so it's impossible to talk about it. So if you even bring up the possibility of election fraud, right. You are a fucking psycho. Yeah. And you're a racist and xenophobic and you're transphobic and homophobic and you shouldn't even be a part of America. You

1 (40m 56s):
Question the system,

4 (40m 56s):
Start locking those people up and then they do start locking those people up and they threaten to lock those people up and they go after those people. I mean, you think about it, the January 6th protest was really a protest that people didn't believe the results of the election.

1 (41m 13s):
You know, man, let me,

4 (41m 14s):
Right. Let's like think about it that way. Yeah.

1 (41m 16s):
Dude. The, the reason like I, the punishment for these people to me is too severe. But as a long time hippie, we are attuned to the heat and everybody knows, don't fuck around in DC What are you fucking doing? Are you crazy? You don't fuck around in DC man. That's like not a place to fuck around. Did you ever remember when they were like beating people for dancing at one of the monuments? Like people would dance at the monuments and it's, you can't dance at the monuments. Really? So to protest they would go and dance and they would just get thrown on the ground and beaten. Really? Yes.

1 (41m 56s):
It's When was this, there was videos of this. I bet Jamie could find it. Wow.

4 (41m 59s):
And it, what, which monuments don

1 (42m 1s):
Don't know like Lincoln monuments. I wish I knew what the monuments were. You can't

4 (42m 4s):
Dance in front of Lincoln.

1 (42m 5s):
You can't dance at the fucking monuments. And so knowing that if cameras everywhere, definitely like reading whatever text you're sending, it's the most secure has to be the most secure place. Right. It's the fucking throbbing heart of the wasps nest. Right. You're gonna go there and fuck around and think you're going to be okay. Like if you not, like where do you think you are? You're gonna put your feet up on Nancy Pelosi's desk and fart in her chair. Right.

4 (42m 33s):
But let's not even talk about those folks. There's people that were just at the protest that are getting arrested.

1 (42m 39s):
Dude, again, I think I'm coming off as a little too cynical. No, no, no.

4 (42m 43s):
Don don't think you are. But

1 (42m 44s):
I, I feel like there seems to be some level of amnesia regarding the way things work here with people. A naive kind of amnesia about like, you know, inevitably the people in the Darth Vader outfits come out, you know, like when you, you can like fuck with the machine up till a certain point. You fuck with the machine too much. All of a sudden there's all these people in Darth Vader outfits beating you with batons, spraying you with water hoses until things get back to normal I mean. And so when people are shocked by, by this or that, what generally shocked by some display of violence or tyranny or in like, any of that stuff.

1 (43m 28s):
It's always weird to me because it's like, this is how it isn't this how it is here. Like when was it not like this? Like what what's that? Remember when the protestor got shot at the university? They were just shooting protestors in the sixties. Yeah. Like

4 (43m 45s):
So it's Kent State.

1 (43m 47s):
Kent State. So it's

4 (43m 48s):
Like Yeah. The National Guard.

1 (43m 49s):
This notion that it's not like that and then like, like poking a stick at the thing directly and not in some asymmetrical way, but really like going in there and seeing, let's see if this time if we poke the tiger, what will happen? And the tiger inevitably bites and usually it this the tiger now is a little scarier 'cause it seems to wait a little bit before it bites you. Like it doesn't just bite you right away. It lets you poke it and poke it and poke it. And then it's gathering information about you gathering information, finding everything about what you've done, where you've been, who your friends are. And then it fucking bites.

1 (44m 30s):
And when it bites, it doesn't let go. And you're fucked. Mm. You are so fucked. So again, I'm not, I

4 (44m 38s):
I, so all these January 6th guys, they have like a network of people, right? And all these people that are on these kanon forums and all these people that are like Trump supporters that are a part of that whole organization thing. How many of them are feds?

1 (44m 53s):
Dude? A lot. No telling. Yeah, no telling. It's just, it's like, wow man. It's, it's,

4 (45m 1s):
That's, that's what happens with any group. If you have a group and anyone can join the group, the feds are like, great, let's join the group. Yeah. They're gonna, why wouldn't they? It's kind of their obligation. 'cause what if you do turn out to be a bunch of fucking loons. Exactly. And they're trying to blow up the, the White House. Exactly. They have to

1 (45m 19s):
No choice.

4 (45m 19s):
Like when people say we're their FBI agents at the Capitol. Well it's, I fucking hope so. of course they're, you don't wanna say it that way, but also were they encouraging people to go inside? That's where it gets weird. That's where it gets weird. Because if they were just there to make sure that, like look, if someone says, Hey, I got a dirty bomb. Like if you can find out like, Roscoe's got a dirty bomb. Yeah. He's about to fucking break into Nancy Pelosi's office and blow it up. Let's go watch. Yeah. Like you would need, you would need to know, right? Yeah. If you were protecting and serving. But what if You don't like telling people to go in because you wanna make arrests? Or what if the the what if the thing was to make it look like something, it wasn't to encourage it to happen.

4 (46m 1s):
'cause you know that there's already gonna be a bunch of people protesting. What if you say, look, the way to do this is let these motherfuckers in. Yeah. And they'll arrest 'em all and then call it something that it's not, don't call it a guided tour. Call it an insurrection shut, cut out. Don't allow anybody to see any of the footage of the people just leading these folks around, pointing out what things are letting them walk into the fucking Senate floor. Yeah. Don't point that out. No. Get rid of that footage and just have the guys banging on the windows and shit.

1 (46m 30s):
Sure dude. I mean

4 (46m 31s):
That's kind of what happened.

1 (46m 33s):
I think that if you were not at least contemplating that the people running the most powerful military on planet earth who have access to probably an AI that would blow our minds, but who also who have gone to military academies where all they've done is study strategy. That's it. You're talking about people who their whole lives the way we've been working on comedy, right? They study history, they look at what worked, what didn't work, goals, agendas. And then to imagine that these people are functioning on just some baseline level when it comes to achieving this goal or that goal.

1 (47m 15s):
I think it's very naive and very silly and underestimating them in a way that is not gonna work for you. If, if you're trying to like achieve some kind of actual political change, you know, you you to, what do they say? To beat my enemy, I'm must become like my enemy. And that means dude, you've gotta like beat

4 (47m 36s):
Gotta become a communist.

1 (47m 38s):
This is why I came on today, Joe.

4 (47m 42s):
Dude I have to pee. Hold. Let's hold this thought. We'll be right back. Okay.

1 (47m 45s):
Huh?

4 (47m 45s):
And we're back. The saunas and the cold plunge back to back and all the water you drink. Like I

1 (47m 51s):
Can't hold my dude. It's so nice though man. Isn't

4 (47m 55s):
It

1 (47m 55s):
Great? It's so great. It's so fucking great. I'm

4 (47m 57s):
So glad you guys are doing it.

1 (47m 59s):
It's crazy. You got us all like it is so funny watching us all work out. It's really cool. You're like forming a militia.

4 (48m 6s):
Well everybody feels better.

1 (48m 7s):
Yeah.

4 (48m 8s):
Everybody Asan was saying like, dude, I'm so much stronger. I feel so much better. Yeah.

1 (48m 12s):
Yeah. No it's incredible man. The impact is tremendous.

4 (48m 16s):
When you were talking today about like you couldn't do chin up before now, how many did you do today?

1 (48m 20s):
Well, I was only I mean only five each set. But you know, this is going from zero to five. Yeah. and I told you I dreamed like last week I dreamed I about doing pull-ups and like it was a like, this is how far away I have been from doing pull-ups that I'm dreaming it and I wake up. I'm like, ah, just a dream. Mm. So it was really wild to like, I was like, fuck, I can do pullups now. This is crazy. But I lost a lot of weight when I was super fat. That was a big part of it, man. When you're overweight, like you pullups obviously are gonna be more difficult.

4 (48m 54s):
When I have more time, I do it different. And I was doing it different than I'm doing it now when I do the pullup thing. So my body weight routine is I do 10 chin-ups, 20 dips, and then usually I do 20 pull-ups with, or whatever the ones they are don don't know what you would call 'em, but it's got a bar where your hands are facing. Like if you put your hands together like you're clapping and then you separate them in grip that and they're in that position. And so, and then I, I do what's called an L chin up. So you, you hold your feet out like so your body's crazy an L position.

4 (49m 34s):
So you're working your abs and you're doing this chin up. I generally do that too. But at what I was doing is a sets of 10 of those 10 chin ups, 20 dips and 10. But it's, when I get to 10, like 10 is like the, it's like a struggle. Like I probably could do, I don't know how many I can do in a row, like full ones all the way down. But I know I could do five easy. So if I do 10 sets of five it's easier.

1 (50m 1s):
Right.

4 (50m 1s):
You know, I can get 50 in pretty easy. Yeah. It's not hard to do. So you take the, you do, like when Cameron Haynes's son broke the world chin up record, he, he did he thousand 100 chin ups in 24 hours he did sets of five. So you do five and then you stop, then you wait a minute and do another five and then you stop and you wait a minute. And if you do that, like five is not hard to do if you can do 10, you know? Right. Or if you do 15, so you could bang out five pretty easy. And then over the course of the workout you get the same amount of reps but you don't burn out. Right, right. That's like the Russian way to do it.

1 (50m 40s):
Russian.

4 (50m 41s):
Yes. That's the, the way the, the like the kettlebell gurus, like guys like paval Toline. What their thing is about this. This is the concept behind, and I'm, I'm pro paraphrasing it, probably butchering it, but strong first. And the idea is that strength, whether it's chin ups or kettlebell routines is a skill. And that You don't wanna do a skill when you're tired. And the, the way to get stronger and, and get all the work in is have much longer workouts with much more time in between sets. Right. So what you would do is you would do, so if you do 10 cleans and presses instead of 10, you would do five and you do five and then you wait a long time.

4 (51m 23s):
Yeah. Like five minutes. And then you do another five. Yeah. And then you wait a long time. Yeah. And then you do another five. And so every time you do it you're fresh. Yeah. So you're getting the same amount of work in as if you did 1 10, 1 rep set of 10 where you get exhausted on the 10th, but you never hit that point of exhaustion. So your body never experiences real fatigue. But you get all the work.

1 (51m 44s):
No man, I've, I've been doing the first time we worked out you, that was something you were doing. Which is like, we were waiting way longer than I usually wait. Yeah. In between exercises and then Yeah, totally. Now you're, because

4 (51m 56s):
I want you guys to full, I wanted everybody like nobody left there wrecked.

1 (52m 0s):
No, not that time. The

4 (52m 2s):
The only thing that's gonna wreck you is the sled. The sled

1 (52m 4s):
Erect. The sled is a demon held device wreck. You

4 (52m 8s):
The torque sleds the shit. I love

1 (52m 9s):
That thing. It tricks you too. The fucking torque sled. 'cause you feel like halfway down you're like, this is, I could do this. And then just each step is more difficult. Dude. It's to me what's fascinating about like getting stronger and this is obvious to people like you, but to me what's fascinating is, and I know that I, I'm dumb but is the Revelation like shit is actually lighter now. Like all this stuff that like, you know, was causing me to like run out of breath or Yeah. Was a pain in the ass. It's light. Yeah. Every, it's it, it's a weird way of reducing the earth's gravitational field.

1 (52m 50s):
Like you are hundred percent existing on a, on a planet with less gravity when you're stronger. This to me is like all the aesthetic stuff aside. Fuck that is so nice to it's, it's to again, like I think people like you who've been in shape for a long time, forget what it's like to not be in shape. You see us, you judge us. But you don't, you don't know like how fucking hard it is at first just to get to the gym. You don't

4 (53m 24s):
Oh it's, I do. I understand. I don't know it personally, but I do understand it. It's hard. I really do because I see it with all other things. It's like with everything else that you put off, it's like how cleaning, cleaning your office, you know, whatever. Exactly. What the fuck, whatever the fuck it is you're putting off. Yep. Those things are, they're all the same. They're all the same and you know you should do 'em and you just don't do it. And you find some other shit to do instead. And that's what people do about the gym. And it's just, you need the best way to do is the way we're doing it. 'cause you get together with friends and we all worked really hard today. Yeah. But we all were laughing the entire time. Yeah. That fucking sauna was so fun. I was in the middle of the sauna and we're suffering. You know, Ari just threw some water on the rocks and that was Bastard I know and I was, but I was sitting there thinking, how fun is this?

4 (54m 7s):
Like we're gonna look back on these days someday and go, God, we we're so lucky.

1 (54m 13s):
I know.

4 (54m 14s):
We're so lucky. I felt so fortunate. I'm sitting in this sauna with, there's six of us in there. Hilarious people. Six hilarious people in Asana. Just laughing Yeah. And talking shit to each other. Yeah. Asan and Derek and Ari and Shane and you and me. And we're all just laughing

1 (54m 34s):
And I think what's really great about it is it doesn't feel like anybody's taking it for granted. Like everyone feels aware of how cool. Yeah. And funny it is. It's so far. I'm just sitting after I did the last cold dip, I'm just sitting in the sauna to heat back up. Ari walks in naked. Like, what, what life am I in? What, what is this? It's so, it is so cool. It really is. You know, man, I was, I just did a podcast with my friend David McClenney wrote a book on like, 'cause he has depression being depressed and being a parent. And we are talking about depression and you know, one of the things that triggers it or amplifies it is no social contact.

1 (55m 18s):
Mm. Like people, you get depressed, they stop hanging out. Right. And the more you're not hanging out, the more depressed you get. And then we were talking about technologically how working from home, how technology, as beautiful as it is to work from home, not to encouraging depression.

4 (55m 34s):
Yeah.

1 (55m 34s):
Dude. Of course. Yeah. And then he was saying the right, the, the, the lifespan has dropped in men because of so many men are killing themselves. Mm. The suicide rates are so high right now. Dudes are just offing themselves left and right. and I just thinking, fuck man. Yeah. This, this is not just the, the pandemic got us working from home, but it also got us like we were seeded into our shells.

4 (56m 4s):
A lot of people never came out of it the same. Yeah.

1 (56m 7s):
Man.

4 (56m 7s):
A lot of people that the social anxiety that they carried around with them on a day-to-day basis, then isolation. And some people, I know people that are isolated for a long ass time. Yeah. Some people they do. You know what it's like, some people are virgins when they're 30 and they're like, what the fuck? How do I, how do I stay a virgin? I'm fucking 30. Yeah. Some people, it's like two and a half years in, they're still locked up in their house. Yeah. They're still terrified to go outside. They never, whether they don't have friends, which is also a part of it. Like, if you don't have people around you where you're talking about it, you're like, you know, I think we're okay now. If You don't have people like that around you. Yeah. Then you're all in your own head all the time. Right. And like, what social circles are you interacting with online? Maybe you're interacting with a bunch of, also, people are also shut-ins who are terrified of going outside.

4 (56m 48s):
I

1 (56m 49s):
Know man.

4 (56m 49s):
Like, I know a guy who's like, he keeps posting stuff about masks. He used to be like a normal dude. But he's talking about masking and the importance of masking on mask. Like now he's masking now. Yeah. And talking about masking. Yeah. Posting art. Anything you could find about the benefits of masking, dude. Like what are you doing, man?

1 (57m 6s):
I mean, at what point is it worth at what? It's quality of life. Right. It's like, like even if Covid v I was like the black plague, like at some point, what's worth more? Like, is it even worth being alive if you're,

4 (57m 22s):
But but the thing is about like, if someone is isolated and depressed, it's just the same thing as like trying to get to the gym. Like how do you get social? How do you get outside? How do you meet people? How do you, how do you make meaningful friendships? You,

1 (57m 33s):
It's a miracle if anybody who's like stuck Yeah. On that glue trap. If they like get outside at all. It's a miracle. Right. Much less get therapy, much less like,

4 (57m 45s):
Do something or you interact with other people.

1 (57m 47s):
It's all these little fucking miracles that help someone climb outta hell. I mean, it's a, it's, it's like also

4 (57m 53s):
They lose their ability to talk to people. Well, right. So they don't even know how to express themselves. Right. They come off awkward and fucking goofy.

1 (57m 59s):
Yeah. And that makes it worse. And then they're ashamed. 'cause that's like depression. That's a big part of it is just fucking shame. You feel so ashamed of yourself. You feel like such a fucking failure and such a loser. And the depression is like, yeah, you are. Yeah. You're awful than suicidal. Ideation starts. Yeah. And then you normalize that. And then the next thing you know, you're planning and then you kill yourself. It's such a sickness and it's fucked up to think that it's so prevalent. More prevalent right now probably than we know. 'cause generally when people are depressed, they don't tell anybody. 'cause it tells you not to tell anybody. You don't wanna tell anyone. 'cause you feel weak. You feel like such a weak piece of shit.

1 (58m 40s):
You don't wanna tell anybody. Keep it quiet.

4 (58m 42s):
This guy that you were talking to, did he get out of his depression?

1 (58m 47s):
He started doing ketamine therapy. Mm. And it's been helping him a lot. And no, I don't think he's to, he's not out of it, but you know what? But he's like in action. He like, you know, is like, he's mitigating it. He's mitigating and doing a good job, mitigating it. It's very impressive that he's doing that. Is

4 (59m 6s):
He, does he exercise

1 (59m 9s):
You? I think so, yeah. You know what happened to him though, man? He wrote a whole book on this shit. He took this stuff. God, what's it called? Man? It's a malaria pill. Do you know about this? It's so fucked up.

4 (59m 23s):
Oh yeah.

1 (59m 24s):
So, so he took, he was in India taking this malaria medication. That

4 (59m 28s):
Stuff's supposed to wreck

1 (59m 29s):
You. Dude. I took it. I took it when I went to India and I had a dream. And in the dream, a pirate skeleton disemboweled me and I feel it in the dream. I could feel my guts coming out. It was the most vivid, horrible dream. I told some Australian dude about the dream and he asked right away if I was on this mal malaria medication. I'm like, yeah. And he's like, you've gotta stop taking that right now. Stop taking it. and I, I, I stopped taking it, but he was on this stuff. And so in a train station in India, he gets complete amnesia. Doesn't know his name. Doesn't know. Would you mind looking up the name of the book for me, Jamie?

1 (1h 0m 11s):
So I'm not a dick? And don't even say the name of his book. It's, it's a great book, by the way. Doesn't know his name. Has no idea where he is at. Who he is has to, so they're like, who? They have to put him in a home in India. I think he punched a nurse. He was so confused and fucking out of it. And yeah, man. I mean, I asked him if he thinks it's 'cause of that, you know, what happened to him? And he's like, don don't know. It's been a long time since that happened, but you can't rule it out.

4 (1h 0m 40s):
Oh my God,

1 (1h 0m 41s):
This shit is bad news.

4 (1h 0m 42s):
Dave Foley got on it because his family was going to Africa for a vacation and he had to take malaria medication in order to meet them there. And so he was taking this malaria medication. And you're not supposed to drink on it. No. Dave enjoys a drink or two. Yeah. So we were at one of these press things where the actors meet with the press people and Dave got super hostile with this reporter. And the guy was talk, trying to talk to him with a little tape recorder. And Dave took his tape recorder away and dunked it in his drink. And like, and, and Dave was like getting really angry with him and no one could figure out what was going on.

4 (1h 1m 26s):
And I had to like corner him. I had to like stop him from like physically going after a reporter. Fuck yeah. And he had no, I, no recollection of it. The next day he came in for the table read and he was like sort of apologizing to everybody. He is like, I'm on this malaria medication and I really don't remember anything that happened. And I was like, dude, I gotta keep you from kicking someone's ass. Dude.

1 (1h 1m 48s):
This, I can't believe they're still giving it to the book. St.

4 (1h 1m 50s):
Fully is the sweetest

1 (1h 1m 51s):
Guy. Sweetest guy who's ever lived. You could like this is it. It's called, the answer to the question is me. It's the book. But thi this, he talk in the book, he talks about so many people are have been wrecked by this shit. Yeah. And like the, the way it was manufactured and stuff. and I guess it's like when, you know, when you put a kink in a garden hose, you're basically doing that with your din your, what are the connectors? The dite. You're like clogging up all your neuroreceptors and then all of a sudden sometimes it just rushes out and then you just, you're blasted. You people have permanent damage from this shit. They

4 (1h 2m 31s):
Still give it to people.

1 (1h 2m 32s):
I think so. I wish I could remember the name of it. God Jesus, maybe. What is

4 (1h 2m 35s):
The cure from malaria? Like if you get malaria?

1 (1h 2m 39s):
No idea.

4 (1h 2m 40s):
No idea is like it worth getting and getting over it. Do you get any I mean immunity? The FDA a approved use for treating and preventing malaria in 1989. But in the 1990s, stories began to surface regarding some serious side effects among patients who took mefloquine. Yeah. This is the stuff that Justin Ren took. Right. Including vivid dreams and nightmares. Hallucinations, mania, seizures, depression, suicidal thoughts and suicide and homicide. Yeah.

1 (1h 3m 8s):
Dude, this shit is bad news. Bad news,

4 (1h 3m 11s):
Suicide and homicide can cause you to murder people. Cases of chloroquine induced psychosis have been reported since 1958. Wow.

1 (1h 3m 22s):
Depersonalization anxiety, derealization and visual hallucinations.

4 (1h 3m 26s):
I wonder if that hydroxychloroquine shit they're giving people at the beginning of covid did that.

1 (1h 3m 30s):
I was wondering that when I heard about it. Like what is that gonna do to people?

4 (1h 3m 35s):
Is hydroxychloroquine what they use for malaria as well, but put hydroxychloroquine. 'cause all hydroxychloroquine is like, it became connected inexorably to COVID misinformation. Right, right. Donald Trump. You are a Trumper. You're a MAGA supporter. Hydroxychloroquine doesn't work. It became like locked into that, which is really interesting. So it's immunosuppressive drug and anti parasite. It can treat and prevent malaria.

1 (1h 4m 6s):
It doesn't.

4 (1h 4m 6s):
So it's for malaria. It can also treat lupus and arthritis. Whoa.

1 (1h 4m 12s):
That's cool.

4 (1h 4m 14s):
I mean. Yeah. But meanwhile it's fucking maga. It's a maga drug. Isn't it wild that a drug can get labeled as like a foolish drug to take? Like if you told people today that you're taking ivermectin, they'd be like, what the fuck is wrong with you? Why would you take that?

1 (1h 4m 29s):
Yeah. That was a whole, you know, you're not a

4 (1h 4m 32s):
Horse. Come on y'all. Yeah. Get your shit together. Yeah. Remember

1 (1h 4m 35s):
That dude. I listen as a former fan of canna be, I would always get offended. 'cause people are like, isn't that a horse tranquilizer? And you want to be like, no, that a cat

4 (1h 4m 44s):
Tranquilizer.

1 (1h 4m 45s):
Exactly. but it is like First of all, if you do get the, the animal anesthetic ketamine way back,

4 (1h 4m 53s):
Because

1 (1h 4m 53s):
They don't give a, they don't give a fuck about the animals. Like the human stuff real is less psychedelic. The cat. The cat shit. They're like, I don't care if you trip out, it's a fucking cat.

4 (1h 5m 6s):
That's your cat. Just fucking tripping balls lying there. Like that bunny

1 (1h 5m 12s):
Talking to aliens, merging with space time, seeing their past lives.

4 (1h 5m 17s):
I remember when Neil Brennan did it, Neil Brennan did it. And he, he, he came up to me at the store and he was telling me about it. He's like, dude, he goes, I thought, you know, it's gonna be just like, you know, mild or something. I was tripping.

1 (1h 5m 29s):
Paws balls

4 (1h 5m 30s):
At a doctor's office with an IV drip

1 (1h 5m 34s):
Dude for depression. Glory be to God. And the the interesting data behind it is that that experience, some people don't have it. And, and it is irrelevant to treatment. So if you go in there and you get it and you don't trip out, I'm sorry, but if you don't, you still, it still will have some statistical probability of mitigating your depression.

4 (1h 5m 57s):
Oh, so some people don't experience a psychedelic effect.

1 (1h 5m 59s):
No, apparently not. Which I don't understand at all.

4 (1h 6m 2s):
They say that about DMT as well. I know that there's a certain percentage of the population it just doesn't work on.

1 (1h 6m 6s):
Maybe it's the way they're metabolizing it or something don don't know. but it it, it's, it's irrelevant to, because you know, in my, when, when I was in my theory on it, my woo woo theory on it was, oh, the, the reason it's like treating depression is 'cause it's reminding you that you're not your body. It's reminding you that your body is just an aspect of what you are. Mm. And there's some relief from that, that memory of like, oh yeah, I'm, I'm not just me. There's much more going on here than just me. And then you're not depressed anymore. But no, that isn't it at all. It's having some physiological effect on the human brain that is treating depression. So it's not like a wisdom that comes from the visionary state.

1 (1h 6m 48s):
The

4 (1h 6m 48s):
Weird thing about depression, when we think about it, we think about it as like a, a disease. And we never think about it as a state of mind that could be manipulated. We, we think like if a person has depression, like you want to be respectful and that person clearly that that's they have a a problem. There's a medical problem. We need to get them help. Yeah. 'cause they have depression. But everyone that I know that's had depression where their life got better, their depression mitigated.

1 (1h 7m 16s):
Dude,

4 (1h 7m 17s):
What I mean? Yeah. What is I mean? If your life sucks Of course, you're gonna be depressed. Like, part of that must be some sort of strategy, some evolutionary advantage to someone who feels that discomfort and then acts because of it. It must be what it is.

1 (1h 7m 37s):
A hundred. Dude, it's despair. Right? It's like, you know, the way you get callouses, you're having a, you are having a rough time long enough. Right. Some physiological corollary for what you're going through forms inside of you. You know? And so that's depression, I think is the, the physi.

4 (1h 7m 54s):
So, you know, you're doing the wrong shit.

1 (1h 7m 56s):
And, and to, in some way to just numb you down to, to like, it's, it's, it's your body's sad attempt to like help you reduce pain, I think. Right. It's, you know, and it, when

4 (1h 8m 10s):
Someone tries, it's like someone trying to annoy you to change. You're like, Jesus Christ, leave me alone. Yeah. Stop annoying me. Yeah. This is not how to do it. This is not how to get me to not be depressed. No. Just not, that's not how to get me to act and do positive things never works that are gonna enrich my life and make me happy and fulfilled. No. By just making me feel shittier and shittier with every chip I eat. Yeah.

1 (1h 8m 31s):
Dude. You know,

4 (1h 8m 32s):
Just shittier and just more depressed and more sad. No matter what you've ever done in your life in that moment, you feel like a fucking

1 (1h 8m 40s):
Loser. You do. It's, I'm, it's the, you know, it's like, it's another form of gravity. Like, that's the other aspect of, of depression is you literally feel heavy. Yeah. Like your bed feels like a magnet. Like it, so, so you know, you're getting drawn into this like, invisible gravity of despair and that gravity, the more you let it grab you, the, the more entropic you become, the weaker you become. Yeah. It's just pulling you, it's literally pulling you into the earth. It's pull literally pulling you, it's pulling you down into the earth. It's so fucked up. Dude. I thought I had seasonal affective disorder, which is where in the winter you get depressed.

1 (1h 9m 23s):
But then I, it was diabetes. Duh. Dude. I was fucking tired. My, my depression, I'm, I'm pretty positive was Well

4 (1h 9m 30s):
Talk about what we talked about today with the fucking vapes.

1 (1h 9m 33s):
Oh my God. Yeah. I, so like a, a little over a month ago found out I had type two diabetes immediately cut out all sugar, cut out, like just all sugar and First

4 (1h 9m 48s):
Of all talk about that because you started texting me like five days later you're like, what the fuck dude. Dude, I can't believe how good I feel. Oh my God. I've been poisoning myself

1 (1h 9m 57s):
Born again. Man. It was the best, you know, 'cause I had bowel cancer. I can't get on like, some of the awesome fucking meds I'd like to get on. But, and you know, having chatted with people who have like, enjoyed testosterone therapy and stuff, and they're like, I feel like I'm a kid again. It's like that, like it was a two day headache, two days shit headache, rotten headache. And then suddenly it's like I'm in a new life. I was no, like, I don't nap anymore. I was like a big napper. I love napping.

4 (1h 10m 30s):
Isn't that crazy? That that's what that is.

1 (1h 10m 32s):
Oh my god. And, and you know, and na nappers out there, you probably, if you're doing what I did, you're just sort of like, you romanticize the napping thing. Yeah. I would think it's a siesta. This is like a it's completely, my kids take naps. This is normal. Yeah. Dude. I know. It's like the naps are not to say that every once in a while I won't get sleepy and, and take a nap. But that's like, and I was doing it as much as I could every day. Like, you know, all these assumptions that I was making regarding age, like this must just be part of being old. Yes. I guess I'm slowing down now.

1 (1h 11m 14s):
No, you have fucking diabetes. You're like a candied apple. I am so lucky I didn't die. And so, yeah, like it's one of the most miraculous things that has happened to me ever. It's, it's insane. Like this, you know, it's part of the reason that like, I'm like regularly exercising because I just mood. Oh my God, dude. Mood swings. I was having these fucking mood swings taking

4 (1h 11m 45s):
Any insulin

1 (1h 11m 45s):
Spikes and insulin spikes. But I'm thinking, oh, seasonal effective disorder. Maybe some like undiagnosed mania. You know, I, I like the, I guess this is just up, I'm in one of those moods again now that I've been like taking my fucking blood sugar I know it this level, this is what I feel like, and I can tell when it's up just by like how I start feeling. Hmm. And so, yeah, the vaping story, I keep thinking of Tony Hinchcliffe relentlessly roasting me for ear beating people about my diabetes. I don't want to do it much longer. He's like, he's so, I love it when he starts fucking tell us more about your diabetes.

1 (1h 12m 26s):
But yeah, so yeah, I went on a family trip where I, I was vaping like much less than I do and suddenly my blood sugar starts leveling out. Like I would wake up, which is the important number when you wake up, you're fasting blood sugar would be like, nor non-diabetic, normal. Get back to Austin and then, 'cause I'm in my studio, start vaping like an idiot again. And all of a sudden the blood sugar starts getting fucking weird. And, you know, I'm thinking like, what did I eat? Like what if I put my body? 'cause I've just, I've cut out all sugar. Like, what is it? Is it like, what's getting into me that is it the milk that I've, I put creamer in my coffee.

1 (1h 13m 9s):
I'm so dumb. I'm like smoking cherry cola of vapes. What could it be? What could be the culprit behind this? And then yeah. So like, I quit vaping and yeah.

4 (1h 13m 21s):
So we found out today, we Googled it today. Yeah. That a a lot of these vapes have sugar in them and shocker. Alcohol sugar or sugar alcohol.

1 (1h 13m 31s):
Yeah. I mean totally. Like, totally fuck I mean. It's, but you know, again, it's like Yeah, of course they're bad for you also.

4 (1h 13m 41s):
They have flavor. Like what do you think that flavor's made out of? Think

1 (1h 13m 44s):
It's coming. You think they're using all natural ingredients at the vape factory?

4 (1h 13m 49s):
Yeah.

1 (1h 13m 49s):
What,

4 (1h 13m 50s):
What do you, what's making that fake strawberry taste?

1 (1h 13m 52s):
Dude, I I know it's I mean. I, it really I was like honestly bummed out when I realized I was gonna have to say goodbye to my pacifier. But

4 (1h 13m 60s):
Yeah. But that pacifier is weird because you only, it's only good the first hit or two True. And then something happens and then you're just chasing this dragon that you never get. No, you're

1 (1h 14m 9s):
Just d demolishing and you know, you're just

4 (1h 14m 11s):
Sucking on it and nothing's happening. You just feel anxiety.

1 (1h 14m 15s):
And you know what it was man, another two day headache. It, I went through another two day fucking shit withdrawal period. And now I don't give a shit about them. Like I've, I've been thinking like, how many of us or two days away from the kingdom of heaven, like two days away from a And the only thing keeping us from it is like a mildly annoying headache. Yep. It's so sad.

4 (1h 14m 40s):
It is sad. It's weird too. It's sad and weird. Did

7 (1h 14m 44s):
You see this video a couple weeks

4 (1h 14m 45s):
Ago? Yeah. A bunch of kids testing them. Yeah.

7 (1h 14m 48s):
Disgusting.

4 (1h 14m 49s):
Yeah. That's what you're making out with every time you're Yeah. These poor kids that probably have lung diseases. Dude. What? Like what kind of diseases do they get working in this factory testing vapes.

1 (1h 14m 58s):
When I was in the throes of vape addiction and I saw that, I honestly I was like, that seems nice. Like

4 (1h 15m 3s):
They're meticulously inspecting all of 'em. These guys are just blasting vapes. All day.

7 (1h 15m 9s):
It probably is a, a counterfeit place

4 (1h 15m 11s):
With even El Bar swiftly clarified the fact you seen the video entirely unrelated to their operations.

1 (1h 15m 16s):
Oh, that's good news.

4 (1h 15m 17s):
Elf Bar's. CEO Victor Zao expressed his concerns stating consumers would be oh, conditioned under which these products are produced. don don't remember what it said. It's a valid concern. These revelations coincide with the food and drug administration's struggles to control unauthorized flavor vaping products pouring in from China. Health authorities have raised alarms about the flavored disposable vapes, especially due to their popularity amongst young people. In June, the FDA took the decisive action. This sounds like propaganda compelling all 180 stores across the us. See, maybe they paid people to do this just so they could put that video out there on TikTok and try to ban vapes.

4 (1h 15m 59s):
I mean he's the fucking RJ Reynolds is losing money.

1 (1h 16m 1s):
Dude, I can't even imagine I mean,

4 (1h 16m 4s):
I would imagine they probably took a big hit and people started vaping.

1 (1h 16m 6s):
Yeah. I mean primitive fucking cigarettes, but Oh yeah. They don't fucking blast your blood sugar, man. That's the thing. Like

4 (1h 16m 13s):
Yeah, those vapes, they, you get, you're getting some sugar and if you're sucking on it like you do, boy, you're hitting that bad boy. All

1 (1h 16m 19s):
You saw me doing it just bad news. I'm such an addict, dude. Just fucking puffing away on those things. But

4 (1h 16m 25s):
I think like for your brain, the, the ZI pouches and these rogue pouches, they're the best in terms of like the cognitive benefits of nicotine. Like, I, I feel them the most Yeah. And they don't make me lightheaded and weird. No. The vape thing, what I like about the vape thing is their first hit. It's like we, that's what I like. Oh yeah. I like that. We, you know, when I used to like it, I used to like it right after I got done working out. So I would do all my shit in the morning, then I'd be driving to work and I'd take a big blast of it Right. When I'm starting to drive to work just wee, everything's beautiful. But that never comes back. No, you only get that like for the first hit, but then you always wanna try to recreate it so you try to hit it again. But it's never there.

1 (1h 17m 5s):
Never. It's never there. Never fucking there. Never there. Yeah. Never there. Yeah. I mean I, for all my vape friends out there, I'm not shaming you if you don't have diabetes, you know?

4 (1h 17m 14s):
Yeah.

1 (1h 17m 15s):
Keep vaping.

4 (1h 17m 16s):
Yeah. If you don't have diabetes, whatever,

1 (1h 17m 18s):
Don't keep vaping. But I mean if you don't have, it's like if you have, it's not

4 (1h 17m 21s):
A good habit. It's a weird habit because it don don't think it does much for you.

1 (1h 17m 28s):
Well,

4 (1h 17m 29s):
I think there's really something to, there's something to nicotine. There's, there's, without a doubt there's a cognitive benefit to nicotine that's actually been demonstrated. Like they've done some studies on nicotine and nicotine also has some sort of neuroprotective effect. Like huberman talk pretty extensively about nicotine, the benefits of nicotine. Yeah. But he's very, very anti vape.

1 (1h 17m 52s):
Well I mean, you know, with all whatever your favorite consciousness expander is, you know, I just love the ethic of personal responsibility. Like, you have to be responsible for yourself. You have to recognize when you have become imprisoned by the damn thing. Right. And I'm so good at pretending I'm not imprisoned by Well,

4 (1h 18m 15s):
You're used to doing it with video games,

1 (1h 18m 17s):
Dude. That's what I'm ta exactly. Like all of these don don't mean to keep harping on this dumb idea that I had just had this morning is like, it's these gravitational fields. Right? And like the inevitably you become sucked into this thing or that and it produces astounding imbalance in your life. Right. But the imbalance, you, you can trick yourself into pretending the imbalance isn't really there. Right. And, and that's addicts were very good at that. So you, it's denial or whatever your ignorance. So you ignore the imbalance. You ignore, like you don't check in with your body or you assume that your shitty feeling is normal.

1 (1h 18m 60s):
You normalize the day-to-day shit feeling. And then to, to begin to like, pull things out of your environment and see how you feel when they're gone. It's very hard to do. 'cause you're glued to the damn thing you've become, it's a pacifier, whatever it may be. So it's like, I'm lucky, man, because like I, without diabetes, I'm a dad, I can't have a fucking stroke. I can't have a heart attack. Right. So that, that was all I needed to like,

4 (1h 19m 33s):
Wake you the fuck up,

1 (1h 19m 34s):
Wake me the fuck up.

4 (1h 19m 35s):
Yeah. You can get trapped because it doesn't feel like it's impacting you that much every day. Every day. It's like, it's not that big a deal. I feel the same. I feel the same. I'm just getting another babe.

1 (1h 19m 45s):
Yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 19m 48s):
A little bit of a buzz. Yeah. But meanwhile you're like slowly rotting yourself.

1 (1h 19m 52s):
You could, it's just it all like I think with augmented reality, like if there was a way to visualize it, like if you could see like a vape anaconda that had wrapped itself around you that was slowly tightening and tightening and tightening. Like the

4 (1h 20m 8s):
Government

1 (1h 20m 12s):
Don't tread on me.

4 (1h 20m 14s):
Literally.

1 (1h 20m 16s):
Yeah. Man. I think that that it's a, it's a really, but I do feel like built in, I like universe as, or universe's class. Like I like ram do also talk about this, the universe is a, we're in a curriculum here and it seems like as part of the curriculum is Having these weights that we, we we're sort of karmically Yeah. We we're stuck. When you start like waking up or whatever you wanna call it or wanting a better life, the first thing you notice is like where you're stuck. Where you're trapped. Yeah. And then every time you just lift that up just a little bit, fuck you, you get this sense of something.

1 (1h 21m 2s):
Well you're feeling is freedom. Like, you, you, it's like you've been in a dark room and a window opens up for a second and you get this little glimpse of light. Yeah. And ooh. And then you start like freeing yourself here and there a little bit here and there, here and there. And then all of a sudden you're in a different universe. Right. It's a different reality. and I think that maybe that's built in to the thing that we're in right now is that you're supposed to have some encumbrance, you're supposed to have some stupid shit you're doing repetitively that's hurting you. Not because the universe is evil, but because it's your, it's there to teach you. It's like it's your friend in a weird way,

4 (1h 21m 40s):
But you need a force to act against in order to progress.

1 (1h 21m 45s):
Yeah, exactly.

4 (1h 21m 46s):
And if you really believe that we are here to create artificial life, which I kind of do, you would need these forces. You, you would need things that motivate you into action. Yeah.

1 (1h 21m 58s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 21m 58s):
These are those things

1 (1h 21m 59s):
That to, and, and, and so, you know, anytime I shift my thinking when it comes to whatever the fuck I happen to be like stuck in to like, oh, this is like a trainer, like this thing is your coach. It's, it's your guru. You want to talk about the real guru, it's your fucking vape addiction. It's your over drinking. It's like that thing is teaching you better than any book or any person could. Mm. It's in the moment demonstrating to you all the mystical truths, which is, you know, you're stuck in a, it's called samsara. You're stuck in this loop of suffering, this endless loop of suffering that you are imposing on yourself.

1 (1h 22m 43s):
You know? Mm. Like, you know that CS Lewis quote, the gates of hell are locked from the inside. Ooh. Like, isn't that great? Anytime you went out, you can get the fuck out.

4 (1h 22m 53s):
Ooh, that's a good one.

1 (1h 22m 54s):
It's a good one.

4 (1h 22m 56s):
That's a good one. Mm. For many people it's true. But for many people they live in Gaza. It's not true. It's like, it's not locked in the inside gates of hell are just the existence you find yourself in. You know?

1 (1h 23m 9s):
But true I mean, and it like knowing, get mad at me. I'm not talking about fucking God on No,

4 (1h 23m 14s):
No, no. I'm I mean. I'm just saying. It's like there's hell that has nothing to do with you.

1 (1h 23m 19s):
But this is, this is where it gets really deep. This is where it gets really deep, is because like the, there's like the human reality or relative reality, which is everything going on in your life and some of the things going on in your life, you're doing to your fucking self. You're an alcoholic, you're addicted to meth, whatever the fuck your current thing happens to be. Some of the things going on in life, you're not doing to yourself. You're in some shitty part of the world. You're, you're experiencing some tragedy in your family, you're not doing that to yourself. So Right. You, but this is just one part of the story. The other part of the story is for the self to even exist, you have to have this awareness or consciousness or emptiness is what they call it in Buddhism for any of this shit to be here, there has to be space around it.

1 (1h 24m 16s):
Hmm. So you're also the space too. You're not just the stuff. And so when shit's going wrong, you get sucked into the stuff. You're fixating and differentiating. This is good, this is bad to try to protect yourself. You lose track of the other side of things, which is this infinite, transcendent, perfect field of awareness. And that is not touched by the world. So even in the worst of conditions, if you can remember that part of you, and not just the part of you that is in undergoing, God knows what kind of suffering, then suddenly there's a way to manage the situation without being so reactive anymore.

1 (1h 25m 2s):
And you know, that's the thing people forget is that other side. That's the, and it's easy to forget. It's easy to forget. I mean, I've, in the old days, the only way I found it was through like high doses of LSD, where suddenly you're no longer encumbered by your thoughts. You're no longer fixating on the human incarnation. You know? And, and then suddenly you're like, you remember, it's a, it feels like you're remembering. It's not like you have been implanted with something. It's like, oh, right,

4 (1h 25m 34s):
I'm this, but you know, at the base of who you are, but you're always juggling bullshit. You're just constantly surround by distractions and bullshit and all these different things that keep you from understanding your true self.

1 (1h 25m 49s):
That's it. And, and and, and, and, but like, so that's relative realities of the bullshit or the, your credit card bills and your, all the stuff we all have to do in the earth realm. Absolute reality would be considered the fundamental ground of nonjudgmental awareness. But if you get too caught up in that one, like if you get too caught up in earth realm shit, you become neurotic, fixated, paranoid, freaked out, angry, insecure, lost in a desire for people to see you as something that you're probably not. If you get too caught up in the other side though, then you like detach from the world and then another kind of imbalance happens that's called eternalism or absolutism.

1 (1h 26m 36s):
And now you aren't, you know, in the class anymore. Now you're like being all aloof and shit like that dude in breakfast club. Remember that annoying guy in breakfast club with the trench coat? Yeah. Dude, now you're all aloof to the world. Oh, I'm not of this place, da da da da da. Yeah. You

4 (1h 26m 52s):
Know, that's such a defense mechanism. You

1 (1h 26m 55s):
Do. Absolutely. Yeah. So, because both are happening, so you have to hold both. Like that's the idea, right? You both, you have to figure out a way to like exist in relative and absolute reality together. Mm. Now that's,

4 (1h 27m 10s):
That's the final bunny.

1 (1h 27m 12s):
That's the final bunny. Yeah. Yeah. We are the bunny. Yeah. We're already fucking there.

4 (1h 27m 17s):
Yeah. We're the bunny. We're the final bunny. We're on our way to becoming the final bunny. I I just wonder how it takes place and you know, I I would never be able to guess because I would've never guessed, I would've never believed that you would have a cell phone on you all the time. Exactly. It allows you to communicate with people and take pictures and videos. Who I would've never thought that was gonna happen. If you, you, you, you told me in like 98 that like a Motorola star tech, like those little shitty phones with the antenna that pulled out and you remember those, the other Of course replaceable battery in the back. Have you told me that within 20 years?

4 (1h 27m 58s):
'cause it's really all it was. You would be watching video on that and making video and FaceTiming people and getting wifi on it. Anywhere you go, you're connected to the internet with high speed watching movies and what viewing all kinds of websites. You'd get all your information from that you would get all your social interaction from that people would be dating off of that. No one saw it coming, man. So who knows what's coming next, dude, who knows?

1 (1h 28m 27s):
Yeah. 20 years from now, I'll be like, if you told me 20 years ago that I could disassemble myself at the molecular level and transform in anything I wanted instantaneously, I would've been like, that's insane. There's no way I'm gonna be stuck in this form forever. and it could be Kurzwell. Yeah. That's, that's not, that's kurzwell that's one of his predictions. Nanobots This is like transforming our DNA at the molecular level. Yeah. Like, you know,

4 (1h 28m 57s):
Crisper

1 (1h 28m 58s):
Crisper but crisper from home. Yeah. You could download a new DNA configuration

4 (1h 29m 5s):
Do. But if that happens, that's what's gonna be really weird. Because if people could just be any form they want, if you like, like if someone wants to be transgender, how about you actually be, become a, a real woman? Like how about you actually have XX chromosomes and how about you actually have a vagina and tits and you can look like Marilyn Monroe. Like you can, like it's, we're so close to being able to make fake life, dude. Right. So how far, when, when they're doing like DNA printing, like what do you like, how, where does that go? Is that, is that, like I was saying that the other day that isn't that the original Atari pong, which is like so primitive and then you look at the unreal five engine with shadows and dust and it looks like realistic.

4 (1h 29m 51s):
Like, is that what's gonna be happening with these DNA printers? Are they gonna be able to make life forms? Dude,

1 (1h 29m 58s):
For sure. I mean, we, we are, the whole culture wars over transgenderism are the foreshock of what's coming. Like already like that has produced rifts and Yeah. Fucking who would've

4 (1h 30m 15s):
Ever thought that?

1 (1h 30m 16s):
Who would've,

4 (1h 30m 16s):
Who would've ever thought that gender was gonna be a focus? But

1 (1h 30m 19s):
The the real focus is identity itself. That's where we're headed. It's like we are so about to have a midlife crisis as our species because we have really become convinced regarding what identity is. Even though we, we don't know, which is why AI is so hilarious because people are like, that thing isn't self-aware. It's not Cynthia. It's like, are you, have you thought about whether you even are? Like how do we even identify consciousness at all? Quantify it. We don't know how to do it. The very right thing that makes us what we are, we have no way of really understanding what it is, how it works. There's theories of consciousness no one fucking knows.

1 (1h 31m 1s):
And so this is what we're slamming into now. And then the moment you can inject yourself or take some medicine or go to some like robot doctor and be like, Hey, you know, for the next couple of weeks I want to experience life as a Filipino. Yeah. And so you take some shit that transforms you into whatever ethnicity, gender, maybe animal that you want. Now what are we gonna do about that? Like if is what if I just want to experience life as a Native American, if I do that? Is that cultural appropriation

4 (1h 31m 38s):
Of course it is. Because you don't have a mental history being a Native American. But if we can download that into you as well, Duncan, there you go. Then you're okay because now you're not trans anymore. Now you're an actual Native American dude. So now we can create artificial memories and then we have people running around that really believe they came off the fucking Mayflower

1 (1h 31m 56s):
Dude and I. I It's coming baby.

4 (1h 31m 60s):
It's coming in all forms. Vikings everything.

1 (1h 32m 2s):
Every and, and, and I everything. And at the, the root of it, I think is in general insecurity in most humans. Because most people at some level understand you're not really what you say you are, you're not really your body. You're not really some constant identity. You change all the fucking time. Right. You might work really hard to maintain some stable this is me thing. Yeah. But you know, that's not really what you are who you are. and I think this is a, for a lot of people, this is unpalatable. Yeah. And, and, and so yeah man, I think we're gonna about to smash into the, the most hilarious era in human history arguments over the humans.

1 (1h 32m 50s):
Right. To become anything they want. Right.

4 (1h 32m 54s):
Right. That's gonna be really weird because if you could become a super Genius, that's also gigantic.

1 (1h 33m 2s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 33m 3s):
What's to stop you from being a nine foot tall Hulk?

1 (1h 33m 6s):
Nothing. Nothing. And it's gonna hurt those poor motherfuckers who've been shattering their legs to get taller. You know about that? Oh, that's so crazy. I think they do it at home with sledgehammers. Like, yeah,

4 (1h 33m 17s):
Well, no, no, they do it with like a, a screw that they, they cut their bone and they attach it with this thing where they have it like a millimeter apart and then you keep separating with this screw. It's wild, dude. It's, and then once you do it, now the whole proportions of your body are goofy. So like, athletics are out the window. Like, I don't even know if you can run anymore I mean I don't, I I don't know what, what is it, is there any success stories from people that have done that and you see them running and stuff? Hold on,

1 (1h 33m 46s):
Dude,

4 (1h 33m 46s):
I wanna say it seems crazy. All the, because your proportions, this is what you grew up with. All your ligaments, all your tendons, all your muscles, your

1 (1h 33m 54s):
Back must get all fucked up.

4 (1h 33m 56s):
How does it not? So these are guys that you could see him taller, but can you see him doing stuff? Well, I know it works. There's a guy that I follow on Instagram that he was already a big guy. He was like six feet tall or six foot two. He

1 (1h 34m 9s):
Wanted to get

4 (1h 34m 9s):
Bigger. He wanted to get bigger. And he gained like two six inches. Because I just wanna see like, has anybody done it? Can you run, can you kick a bag? Can you fucking, can you lift weights? Like, what, what can you do?

8 (1h 34m 26s):
This is the same guy,

4 (1h 34m 28s):
Right? Is that the gym? I mean like his upper body. But I wanna see like, yeah, see, look how he's walking. Yeah. Like this is crazy.

1 (1h 34m 35s):
Oh man. New

4 (1h 34m 36s):
Achievement unlocked. He can walk. He might just had the surgery though. I don't think so. Dude, I think you're in crutches for a long time.

1 (1h 34m 45s):
How?

4 (1h 34m 46s):
Yeah. This guy that I'm watching on Instagram. Go to Instagram. Yep. Go to, got my knees done. That guy. So this guy was already gigantic. He was already a big, huge guy and he decided he wanted to be six inches taller. So he's been doing this and you know, he's now like rebuilding his legs and he's documenting it all kind of crazy. Man.

1 (1h 35m 15s):
Dude,

4 (1h 35m 16s):
They, they just separate your, you see now he's like walking with like canes. Look at how big his arms are. And then his, his legs are still all fucked up from the surgery,

1 (1h 35m 28s):
Man. But

4 (1h 35m 29s):
The thing is, like, at the end of it, can you run? Like, are, are you like barely walking? Like I've never seen anybody. He's like pressing some weight, trying

1 (1h 35m 39s):
To strength doing

4 (1h 35m 39s):
Presses, but he's strengthening his legs. You know, that's like part of the rehabilitation process doesn't look like it's very heavy. But, well, my question is like success stories. So Google legs strengthening success stories. Like not just, are you taller, but are you fucked now? Like what happens? It seems like you'd be fucked. Like imagine if your shin was all of a sudden six inches longer.

1 (1h 36m 0s):
Seems like it, you'd

4 (1h 36m 2s):
Be all like,

1 (1h 36m 3s):
Seems like it would be,

4 (1h 36m 4s):
You wouldn't even know how to step.

1 (1h 36m 5s):
It would hurt. You'd be like, you'd be like, so they have metal in their legs after that.

4 (1h 36m 8s):
Like fucking stepping weird and shit. I mean, I guess eventually you would adapt to it, but fuck man. And then six years from now, all I have to do is just press the button and I, I'd like to be seven feet tall

1 (1h 36m 21s):
Today. There you go.

4 (1h 36m 22s):
And you're just like, I'm just eating steaks so I can catch up with a molecular structure change of,

1 (1h 36m 26s):
Dude, it's gonna be a sad day for all the body mod people. Because it's like, fuck dude, you did this like relatively like primitive, savage fucking therapy and just right around the corner,

4 (1h 36m 40s):
Most of our patients are able to run just like before, after they've fully recovered from the high increased surgery. but it's important to know that everyone's journey is a bit different. In the beginning you might find your endurance isn't what it used to be. Of course. Or you might run a bit slower or even notice your walking styles changed a bit. This is all normal. The key is to be patient with yourself and listen to what your body's telling you. Sometimes you might need a more physical therapy or you might need a more physical therapy or in rare cases, another surgery to address any instances that are issues rather that arise. But I wanna see

7 (1h 37m 13s):
I know that this just says they can,

4 (1h 37m 15s):
They have a Can you just show me? Just can you Google? I did post leg strengthening.

7 (1h 37m 21s):
I tried running. I'm trying to get, I'm trying to get there. There's no real videos that I was seeing.

1 (1h 37m 27s):
Legs walking, spinning, surgery gone wrong. It's

7 (1h 37m 30s):
The same guy here.

4 (1h 37m 33s):
It's really weird, man.

7 (1h 37m 35s):
I'll try. I'll keep trying wrong.

1 (1h 37m 37s):
You know, that's,

4 (1h 37m 38s):
That's extreme

1 (1h 37m 39s):
With a neural lace. The dream would be instead of getting leg lengthening surgery, you change your brain. So you don't care how tall you are. Mm. That fixes the whole problem.

4 (1h 37m 50s):
That doesn't fix the problem. If you're trying to get laid and you're five foot one,

1 (1h 37m 53s):
Well you don't care about getting laid anymore. You take that outta your system too. You

4 (1h 37m 57s):
Become an alien. So this guy's had it.

7 (1h 37m 59s):
He is not moving very well, but he is moving.

4 (1h 38m 2s):
So he gained seven centimeters. What is that? Inches?

7 (1h 38m 6s):
3, 2, 3. Jesus Christ. Four.

1 (1h 38m 11s):
Well,

4 (1h 38m 13s):
How it goes.

1 (1h 38m 14s):
But look it out. It's like the, the way we react to people doing that Yeah. Is like we recoil it there is built into us. It's like the idea is the avatar that you were born with and whatever the simulation is, you fucking, you don't get to change that avatar. You keep the avatar the way it is. There's what you could do like shifts to the avatar by losing weight, gaining weight, getting muscles, dye your hair, get a wig. But the moment you start changing that avatar in like extreme ways, people like you can't do that. You change your avatar.

4 (1h 38m 50s):
Well I'm just worried about these people's, the long term consequences of this. I'm not worried about like, if there was a way they could do it and just do it. I mean, I'm just thinking how many success stories. Like what is the long term history of this? Like how many people have done this? Like what does it, what's the effect on your hips long term?

7 (1h 39m 7s):
Here? Here's a guy.

4 (1h 39m 8s):
This guy did it a long time ago.

7 (1h 39m 10s):
Yeah. This guy, he is doing squatting, running and some like high knees and stuff. Wow.

1 (1h 39m 15s):
It worked. Look at that. It's fine.

4 (1h 39m 18s):
So he is been doing it. How long is he out outta surgery?

7 (1h 39m 21s):
I don't know specifically,

4 (1h 39m 22s):
But he looks like a regular athlete. He doesn't look like he's having any problems.

1 (1h 39m 26s):
No problems.

4 (1h 39m 27s):
But he also has like those pads over his shins, which lead me to think that he still has little scars there,

1 (1h 39m 33s):
But everybody watches him jump winces 'cause they think his legs are gonna snap.

4 (1h 39m 37s):
That's him running

7 (1h 39m 39s):
Of this. Looks like before right here in the ex description it says he wasn't able to sprint all out

4 (1h 39m 47s):
Agility

7 (1h 39m 48s):
But couldn't do stuff. A year later,

4 (1h 39m 49s):
A year later

7 (1h 39m 50s):
After rehabbed in full and regained full athletic ability,

4 (1h 39m 53s):
Surpassing my previous best prior to leg lengthening surgery. Interesting.

7 (1h 39m 60s):
So there's one example I found, but Hmm. You know,

1 (1h 40m 2s):
Fucking cool. I love it man. I welcome it. I I can't wait to see the hybrid humans that are gonna just be right around the corner. Man. There's

4 (1h 40m 11s):
Gonna be some wild people

1 (1h 40m 12s):
Wings.

4 (1h 40m 13s):
Yeah, for sure. Wings. That's gonna be the first thing. Who doesn't wanna be an eagle? Man? Fucking

1 (1h 40m 17s):
Wings man. I want wings.

4 (1h 40m 19s):
Who doesn't want to jump off a building? Just

1 (1h 40m 22s):
Oh dude. Unfold your wings. When you go on stage, the going on stage, we descend down on the stage. You don't walk through the curtains.

4 (1h 40m 33s):
Do you think you'd even want to go on stage if you could

1 (1h 40m 34s):
Fly? Yes. Are you fucking kidding me? Funny jokes you could do if you could fly, I'd just be

4 (1h 40m 39s):
Flying All day.

1 (1h 40m 41s):
No, you wouldn't. You would do still do standup.

4 (1h 40m 44s):
I would want to get long toenails so I could catch a salmon.

9 (1h 40m 51s):
That be the funniest thing.

1 (1h 40m 54s):
You're fishing and Joe, Rogan swoops down and grabs your salmon.

4 (1h 40m 58s):
Try to snatch him before the bear gets to him.

1 (1h 41m 2s):
Dude, dolphin, I want to go aquatic baby. Mm. You stick to the skies. I'm going under. I want to good move. Get down there and explore and just go into the sea. Yeah, this is, there's a book called Wizard of Earth Sea by Ursula Kayla Gwen. And they talked about how there's wizards who can turn themselves into dolphins. But the problem is if you stay a dolphin long enough, you forget that you are a wizard and you never come back to being a wizard. Oh. You just stay out there. So, but whoa, people would be disappearing into the ocean. Like, I'll be back tomorrow, just I'm gonna be a whale. And then you're just like, you know, that was a dream.

1 (1h 41m 42s):
The whole human thing. I'm just gonna stay whale swim around.

4 (1h 41m 47s):
Whoa.

1 (1h 41m 48s):
That's what we, that and that's what God did. Hmm. See what it's like to be some limited thing. It's that great Alan Watts essay. See what it's like to be some limited fucking thing on a planet floating in the middle of nowhere. You, I don't wanna remember I'm God just gonna fucking plot around for a little bit. Well, if we

4 (1h 42m 5s):
Are part of everything and the universe is God. That's what I think. I've been thinking about that more and more. Like this idea that God created the universe maybe, or maybe the universe is God, I mean. Doesn't that make more sense? If it's everything, if it's everything is one thing. Yeah. And then your, your role in it as a thing, as an intelligent thing is getting whatever you are to a point where you transcend physical space.

1 (1h 42m 37s):
Yeah. Man. Yeah. Or, or you, you

4 (1h 42m 39s):
Become the final bunny. And that's, I I think that's what all of our cultural struggles, all of our struggles of our resources, they're all the battle that keeps us moving against it to further and progress the human race. Like all the outrage about, like those professors that weren't capable of saying that calling for the death of the Jews is, is hate speech or is harassment all, all that is there to get people outraged enough that they realize, oh my god, this is insanity and we have to change the way we think. This is fucking insanity that this discussion is actually being had in 2023. But if it, but if it was subtle enough that it didn't freak you the fuck out, it wouldn't be good enough for change.

1 (1h 43m 26s):
Dude, it's like you first though. I you, you gotta get a taste of it. Like, you know, it's the saddest video. I hate it. I you ever see that video of the polar bear when it snows, he's in a zoo and now it's snowed and the polar bear's rolling around in the fucking snow. Finally everything makes sense to the polar bear. It's designed for snow. Right. There's snow. It's been in this snow free environment. Yeah. So if we are the universe and simultaneously singular individuals, then we're made to be much more than we are.

1 (1h 44m 10s):
Yeah. And if you're all squashed into your fucking body, the moment you just get any kind of respite from that. Yeah. You remember you're gonna be nicer to people. Like if, if I'm living, if you and me are living, we're tight friends. But if you and me are living in a bachelor pad, how long before we start fighting, man, how long before we start irritating the shit out of each other? Well,

4 (1h 44m 32s):
You and I lived together for six

1 (1h 44m 33s):
Months. You had a big ass house.

4 (1h 44m 35s):
But we didn't irritate

1 (1h 44m 36s):
Each other. No, I'm saying if you're, that was fun. If you take any, I don't care. Take the Dalai Lama and, and MDOs and put 'em in a tiny little fucking room. Right.

4 (1h 44m 44s):
They'd eventually get on each other's nerves.

1 (1h 44m 45s):
So, so if you're live living in a compressed d reality where you've become convinced that you are all you are, your body is only you, then naturally you're gonna panic. Naturally you're gonna feel claustrophobic. Naturally you're gonna be a dick. So if suddenly you, you had a realization that no, you're everything, you're more than that. Mm. The next thing spontaneously that will emerge from you is kindness, compassion. It might not be like, you might not become the sweetest person on earth, but shit people say to you, it's not gonna hit as hard because like if you were in a dream where somebody was insulting you in the worst way possible and you thought it was real, you're getting your feelings hurt over and over again in the dream.

1 (1h 45m 32s):
And then you remember, oh, I'm gonna wake up. This isn't, this is just a dream. That insulting thing isn't gonna hurt as much. It's not gonna hit you as hard, you're not gonna take it personally. So this is, you're totally right. It's like the moment people start remembering what we are, everything will shift. Everything will change, everything does change. 'cause everyone's fucking in suffering so much. You know, these fucking professors, whoever the fuck it is, whoever's belting out outrage and anger and whatever, you can be certain if one thing they don't feel great, they don't.

4 (1h 46m 12s):
There's no way.

1 (1h 46m 13s):
No fucking way. And that's sad. And

4 (1h 46m 15s):
And also how many of her medicated,

1 (1h 46m 18s):
Oh my god,

4 (1h 46m 19s):
It's so normal for people, whether it's in academia or just in many jobs to be on SSRIs, to be on anti-anxiety medication, to be on mood stabilizers. Totally. To be on this sort of that Adderall and I have a DHD turns out just need a little bit of Adderall. And how many of these people are, they're not even capable of stepping off whatever path they're on to rationally or objectively assess whether or not the way they think makes any sense at all. Dude, they're on a runaway train. Just we down the tracks. Yeah, man. And they're running major educational institutions.

1 (1h 47m 2s):
Yeah. And yeah,

4 (1h 47m 3s):
Legacy ones.

1 (1h 47m 4s):
Dude, it's it, this, I think this is the status quo. This is how it's always been. Anytime you are in the world, you're around people who are sleepwalking. That's just part of it. Because part of being in the world is you sleepwalk at first. Yeah. 'cause you're waking up from infinity. You're like a fucking baby coming out of a infinity. Yeah. So you're sleepwalking at first. You get culturally conditioned, you get programmed. And then somewhere along the way maybe you start realizing, wait, don don't have to be li I don't, this isn't me don don't have to be like this. Right. By the way, can I, so I can get it off my fucking mind. Can I pitch my book? Please do. It's like eating me alive. 'cause it's making me feel like a fucking asshole.

1 (1h 47m 46s):
I have an audio book that I did with one of my friends, Ragu Marcus, who runs the Rom Doss Foundation, the Love Serve Member Foundation. He was with Rom Doss in India with Neman Crowley Baba, this great saint and guru. And he's been my friend for years. And so we recorded this audio book called The Movie of Me to the movie of We. That's it. It's just an audio book. You could even think of it as like a podcast basically. but it is, it's, he's just so brilliant and he's just been living in this like world and was lucky enough to meet this person who like was incredible.

4 (1h 48m 27s):
What is this book about?

1 (1h 48m 28s):
So this book is about, well it's kind of what we're talking about. It's like, like I know, you know this experience because you're so generous and you are, you give, but if you're not giving, if you don't like, if, if you get too caught up in like serving yourself, if you get too compressed in the identity, you start defending, you start trying to like always placate yourself. So, but the moment that you start helping you, the moment you sort of expand your idea of who you are beyond your body, then at least in my experience as a like professional, selfish person, suddenly you feel this liberation.

1 (1h 49m 18s):
It is the most incredible thing. And so this is just like, we just talk about all this stuff at these ramdas retreats that I go to and all of the like, like sort of mystical teachings that have emerged from all over the world, that sort of point in the direction of how to sort of get the fuck out of this movie that you're in, where you're the main character, you're the main fucking character. You're, it's a shitty fucking movie. You don't even want to be in the role. It's this guy, Krish NADOs came up with a idea, which is you wake up in the fucking morning, you're the main actor in a fucking shitty goddamn movie, and you're not just acting in the movie directing the fucking shitty movie.

1 (1h 50m 1s):
Then you're writing reviews about how much the movie sucks. That's the movie of me. And so the moment you sort of step outside yourself and realize we're sharing the stage here together, we're, or even better, we're the same consciousness that's gotten confused by, its the proximity of our bodies. Then the movie changes into instead of being evil dead too, you know, it becomes some or don don't know whatever you want it to be. Or romcom. Yeah. Porn.

4 (1h 50m 35s):
There's a mystery that some people have solved and they've solved it like temporarily sometimes. And sometimes they fall back to the old way of thinking. But the, the mystery can be solved while you're alive on earth. That at least for moments, for brief moments, the universe reveals that there's this inescapable connection of all people, of all events. Yeah. Of all life, of all thought, of all love of, all hate of all, all of it is in this insane cycle of giving and receiving and energy going back and forth.

4 (1h 51m 20s):
And we look at it in terms of like cultural conflicts. We look at it in terms of pollution. We look at it, we look at all these different things, but what, what's really going on is this fucking insane connectivity that it's very difficult to be aware of as a biological organism with an imperative to stay alive. That it's, that's literally burned into your DNA because your, your being is the product of millions of years of things clawing and scratching Yes. To get to this point. And we're still so burdened by our origins that we could, we can't, we can't abandon war. We can't abandon the one thing that scares the fuck out of us more than anything in life and should the one thing that's killed more innocent people than anything ever.

4 (1h 52m 5s):
And we, we can't even imagine a world without it.

1 (1h 52m 10s):
Yeah man. It's, that's

4 (1h 52m 11s):
The wildest thing about being a person. Yeah. The one thing that everyone would agree. Like what? Think of all the horrible things that happened in that October 7th event, right? Oh, the slaughter. The women and the children. The rape and

1 (1h 52m 26s):
The,

4 (1h 52m 26s):
Yeah. Horrible shit. We can barely imagine a world where that doesn't take place sometimes. And in war, that's the kind of thing that takes place. And we can't imagine not having that. No. Like we would never do that. Yeah. Right. We're just people, most people listening to this would never paraglide into a fucking rave and start gunning kids down. Right. Most people listening could never even imagine doing that. But we also can't imagine a world where that doesn't take place. That's

1 (1h 53m 3s):
Right. Which

4 (1h 53m 4s):
Is

1 (1h 53m 5s):
Insane, insane,

4 (1h 53m 6s):
Insane. We are preparing constantly. We spend more money preparing constantly and spending money on the thing that protects us from all the bad people in the world. That's right. Anything else we do by far.

1 (1h 53m 22s):
And the, the whole thing falls apart. The moment you stop doing, you're you. I'm me. You're bad. I'm good. These are other me's. They're the good mes. You're the bad mes. Yes. And the bad mes have gotta go. And so crazy. So that's the recipe for conflict. War fighting just a general shitty life, is that you think that this person over there is different from you. Right. Even though that fucking person over there is you in a different incarnation.

4 (1h 53m 58s):
Okay. With this philosophy, what do you do with the border?

1 (1h 54m 3s):
I love you man. What, what do you do with the border? No, that's great. Thanks for having me on the show.

4 (1h 54m 7s):
Right. Wouldn't you just let everybody in?

1 (1h 54m 9s):
Well, you know, man, the, so like, the, the

4 (1h 54m 12s):
Right. But you can't, weren't

1 (1h 54m 13s):
You the person who told Wait, weren't you the person who told me that the samurai to kill somebody has to love them first. Did you tell me that? That like,

4 (1h 54m 21s):
No.

1 (1h 54m 22s):
Okay.

4 (1h 54m 22s):
That's definitely not true. They killed a lot of people. They don't even know.

1 (1h 54m 27s):
Alright, well then I'll throw that out of the fucking shit. I say when I'm,

4 (1h 54m 30s):
I'm peeing, I hate this, but I have to pee again. No, I Sam, I

1 (1h 54m 33s):
Pee. You're

4 (1h 54m 33s):
Fucking kidding. Sorry. What do we do

1 (1h 54m 34s):
About the border,

4 (1h 54m 36s):
Jim? What we do, we, about the book. We were just talking about how easy these conversations are to have that, like you and I first became friends when I would call and get my availabilities, that's when we really got to know each other. It was over the phone. 'cause I would call and I say I'm in town Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. And he'd be like, Hey man, did you see this documentary? And then we would just start talking. That's it. We would talk for like fucking an hour and a half.

1 (1h 54m 57s):
So long. Two hours. It was so cool, man. It was such a fun beginning of a friendship. You. Don't know. The first time I, you don't remember the first time I met you though? I don don't think When

4 (1h 55m 6s):
Did I, when,

1 (1h 55m 6s):
So I was with Cory Cuomo, she was a talent coordinator at the time. And I'm sitting next to you, and this is when I think you just started smoking weed. Like it was a relatively new thing and you were realizing how wonderful it was. And so you were talking about how much you love weed. and I started doing the thing that you now know I do as like, trying to be funny or fun. and I start, I was about to be like, it causes brain damage because, and and Corey is like, shov, Corey's like shoving me, like going, no, no, no, don't do that because you didn't know me. You would've just thought I was a fucking asshole. Right. And so I stopped, but I was like, you did give me like a sharp look for a second.

1 (1h 55m 49s):
and I'm like, oh fuck. And but that's when we first, like, that's when I was like, we hung out for the very first time and then we started talking. And dude, I rem I'll never forget this car ride driving back from the Anaheim improv with you. I think stone stoned as fuck. And you put on Terence McKenna. Mm. Some lecture that I still think about. And man, I felt like the universe was just melting down.

4 (1h 56m 15s):
Yeah.

1 (1h 56m 16s):
And it was really like blowing my mind. I I, I'd read Terence, I'd never listened to any of his lectures. and it was just like he was talking about the singularity and we were both like, God fucking damnit. This is crazy. And

4 (1h 56m 34s):
Yeah, there was a series of audio. Was it ca It might have been cassettes that you could get. It was on Amazon at one point in time, I think. Yeah. but it was all these Terrence McKenna lectures and then there was a psychedelic salon where you can get all of them. Did you ever go to that podcast? No. Psychedelic salon has everything. Alan Watts, every Timothy Leary. Ah, every Terrance McKenna, like so many hours and hours of McKenna. Amazing. Because he would give like, kind of similar speeches, but it was all, he just kind of would go wherever it would take him. Yeah. And he was so good at it because he was doing it constantly. So he would just show up to these places.

4 (1h 57m 15s):
And, and it was really interesting 'cause he was like, like Timothy Leary had it wrong. Like, what I like to do is keep things small and quiet. And so he would do like, you know, a couple hundred people here and there. Who cares. Yeah. Nobody bothered him. Yeah. You know, never got too crazy.

1 (1h 57m 31s):
Yeah. Man, I, I, he what a man of all of the luminaries Yeah. That we missed. That I didn't get to talk to or hang out with that one. God, it would've been so cool.

4 (1h 57m 43s):
I've become friends with his brother, his brother's amazing.

1 (1h 57m 45s):
Dennis is really cool.

4 (1h 57m 47s):
He's amazing. And Dennis is the more skeptical scientist. Like Yeah. He's, you know, he's a legitimate scientist and he, he has some very, very unique like, informed thoughts, particularly about the stoned ape theory. That's one of the more magical ones. Yeah. That's, that's one of the more magical theories. 'cause man, if they're right, that's crazy.

1 (1h 58m 12s):
Yeah. I yeah. I mean, you know, because

4 (1h 58m 15s):
That's a nutty one dude.

1 (1h 58m 16s):
That's a nutty one That

4 (1h 58m 17s):
Because that thing, right. That now that became literally is why we became human. If that thing somehow or another became a schedule one substance in this corrupt fucked up culture, right. You could get locked in jail for the very thing that turned us into people. Right. The first thing that the universe provided. Yeah. You to grow and evolve. And it's your right as an evolved creature to rebel against that. To the point where you can overthrow that. 'cause it's insane. You've let tyrants take over the ability that people have to evolve that came straight from God.

1 (1h 58m 49s):
Yes.

4 (1h 58m 49s):
If that's, if that's what's really going on. Like that's the thing that's like the push, that's like the people in front of Congress saying that, you know, calling for death to the Jews is, doesn't constitute harassment unless it's actionable. It's like, it's a thing that makes you go, what the fuck are you talking about? Right. It's gotta, someone's gotta say no, we're gonna, not only can you not take it, we're gonna put you in a cage. We're gonna make it the most illegal thing. Like Yeah. How are you making the thing that made people, like what data do you have that chose this as bad? Like, dude You don't have any, how are you locking people up? That's

1 (1h 59m 24s):
Crazy. This is why I don't think it's Project Bluebeam, dude. 'cause you could just tell people don't eat that thing that makes you remember your God and that you should love everyone around you and that you're part of a holy mystical instantiation of consciousness into time space. Because it's bad. And we're all like, okay, alright. If you say not to, I guess we can't.

4 (1h 59m 47s):
But don't you think they don't know, which is part of the problem? Because if you really did know, if you would've really taken it, you would never wanna stop people from taking it. So don don't think any of 'em have done it, which should be a prerequisite. I I know, like, I don't know. Graham Hancock has said, I think he, he had a crazy number. He said, you should have no fewer than 20 ayahuasca or psilocybin Jesus. Jesus

1 (2h 0m 12s):
Christ.

4 (2h 0m 12s):
But if you want to be president,

1 (2h 0m 14s):
Which now that I agree with, and you should have like, could

4 (2h 0m 18s):
You imagine if that was the thing that you had to put them through, if that was the thing, instead of these fucking goofy debates where they're all dunking on each other and whoa, you got lifts in your shoes, son. Instead of that, if instead they all had to take psychedelics and we, we had to have access Yeah. To their psychedelic ceremonies. So you could say, did he do his five sessions? Yeah. Yeah. Let, let's see. Is his five sessions documented? Let's make sure we can watch his five sessions. Let's say if he doesn't scream out wild shit, like while he is like, you know, who, what does he, you know, maybe his real intentions will be revealed, dude. Like maybe when he hundred percent maybe he can't hand. Maybe he comes out of it a different person. He doesn't wanna be president anymore.

4 (2h 0m 59s):
Really. Maybe he does the five sessions and be like, I'm changing the course of my life. What am I doing? Like changing. Yeah, that sounds nuts. But if we were a healthy society, we would legitimately consider whether or not someone should have some very powerful, documented psychedelic sessions that we know at a dose to be a transformative experience and have multiple ones of those documented. If you want to run things, dude. And you should probably have to keep up with it too. You should probably have to do it every six months.

1 (2h 1m 30s):
I think it should be. That should definitely be on the, on the agenda. But let's start with just get 'em drunk. I wanna see what you're like when you're hammered. Right. You know, you'd know a lot about lot about a person when you, when you're around them, when they're hammered.

4 (2h 1m 41s):
Dude, some guys get super goofy when they get drunk. Yeah. And

1 (2h 1m 45s):
Say some

4 (2h 1m 45s):
Stupid things.

1 (2h 1m 46s):
Yeah. Like, well for whatever you say, we won't hold it against you, but I want to see like your energy shift when you're hammered. Like Right, right, right. What are you, like, are you a bully?

4 (2h 1m 56s):
Or like, you fun drunk,

1 (2h 1m 58s):
Drunk I don want my president to be a fun drunk. Right. don don't want an fucking angry, drunk president. Right. Then you move on up the list of drugs and to just what is their consciousness like in different psychedelic states. Right. And then from that, we could make a true judgment on whether they

4 (2h 2m 16s):
Be good president. Well also they'll know more about themselves and why they wanted to do it in the first place. Right. If they still wanna do it after it's over. 'cause a lot of people think they want to be president just 'cause it's hard to do. Like, there's a lot of things that are hard to do you shouldn't do. Right. You know, like there's a lot of jobs. It seem like they're, they're good, but it's just hard to do. You know, just not, you don't want that

1 (2h 2m 38s):
Dude there. Okay. So this connects to what we're talking about. I told you about this great documentary on Netflix, about this cult love is one fascinating, this cult leader, essentially like my analysis of it is the, the cult killed her. She started off as a cult leader. But then as things progressed, what was her name? I can't remember. Or mother God is what they called her. Here

4 (2h 3m 3s):
It is. This is the lady. Yeah. From mother God to mummified corpse inside the fringe spiritual sect. Love has won. Amy Carlson was supposed to be the incarnate of Mary, of Marilyn Monroe, Joan of Ark, and Jesus Christ. Man, that's ambitious. When she shed her earthly body for the latest time, authorities found her followers still worshiping it, shedding light on the group. Many have called a cult. You think it's a fucking cult. I can't believe have said

1 (2h 3m 29s):
It like that. That's

4 (2h 3m 30s):
A cult. Many have called Jesus Rolling Stone. What are you doing? Dude? That's many have called

1 (2h 3m 35s):
Such weird language. What does

4 (2h 3m 36s):
That, what does that even mean?

1 (2h 3m 38s):
Well, the documentary is spectacular. But what's interesting about it is that, so this person is dying. She needs to go to the hospital. Sometimes she would come out of her cult leader. I am God mentality and say to people, don don't think this is real. I don't think I'm God. And they would say to her mother, God, you're just in your lowers right now. You're not in your higher etheric body. Which is why you think you're not mother God. You are mother God. And in interviews one of them, I think said, if she'd asked to go to the hospital, I don't think we would've taken her. So this cult forms around this woman.

1 (2h 4m 19s):
And then the cult itself enables her alcoholism. She was a profound alcoholic. Like keeps her on. She's like drinking colloidal silver till she turned fucking blue. Oh my God. Turns blue. And like the cult, like essentially like devours her until they're worshiping her mummify body. I'm comparing this to the presidency. How did

4 (2h 4m 41s):
They mummify her?

1 (2h 4m 43s):
Well, don don't know that. They like, they just like let her like sit in a sleeping bag. You can see the picture if you wanna see the picture of it. Oh yeah. I wanna see the picture. Okay. Yeah. It's pretty wild.

4 (2h 4m 51s):
How rough is it

1 (2h 4m 52s):
Not I mean. The, the way the her eye, whatever the eyes are that they put there really do seem to be gazing into your soul is pretty intense. But put fake

4 (2h 4m 60s):
Eyes in there.

1 (2h 5m 0s):
I'm not sure it was her eyes. I, I like, like I, I read that they put, they painted it or it's like, yo, dude, it is. You'll love this documentary by the way. I

7 (2h 5m 10s):
Get the exact photo. Yeah, but this is like, where,

1 (2h 5m 13s):
That's if she's turning blue. Yeah.

4 (2h 5m 15s):
Oh wow. And that's from the colloidal

1 (2h 5m 18s):
Silver. Yeah. Mother, god.

4 (2h 5m 20s):
God, that's so weird. And what was she trying to recover from with this colloidal silver?

1 (2h 5m 24s):
Well, she had some kind of organ failure going on and like anorexia.

4 (2h 5m 28s):
Oh no.

1 (2h 5m 29s):
But she was drinking and she was getting hammered all the time.

4 (2h 5m 32s):
Organ failure, drinking and anorexia altogether.

1 (2h 5m 37s):
Yeah. And it's a fascinating story because she was a manager at McDonald's. Took MDMA and boom, there you go.

4 (2h 5m 44s):
Oh my God. God. Her skin is blue as fuck. Yeah. That's what it was like before she died. Yeah. Did you ever see that one dude that went on like Oprah or something like that? Yes. And his skin was blue.

1 (2h 5m 56s):
Papa Smurf guy. Yeah,

4 (2h 5m 57s):
Yeah, yeah. Same thing. Right? Same

1 (2h 5m 59s):
Thing. And how

4 (2h 5m 59s):
Many people have done that? Google? How many people have turned blue? People turning blue using colloidal silver.

7 (2h 6m 5s):
I also found the Duncan will probably get to this.

4 (2h 6m 8s):
Nevermind. This is another one of her. Well, just

7 (2h 6m 10s):
Part of the story, the headline on variety

4 (2h 6m 11s):
Mother, God, Robin Williams in alcohol's medicine,

7 (2h 6m 14s):
Dead celebrities had something to do with this too.

1 (2h 6m 16s):
Robin Williams talked to her like she had contact. She channeled Robin Williams. Oh, Jesus, dude. It is. But

4 (2h 6m 23s):
I can't wait to watch it. So I love a good cult documentary. Dude. I

1 (2h 6m 27s):
Didn't mean to derail our conversation about the president. I what I mean is, it's a similar thing. You start off wanting to be president and you become president, but then you're in this system that where you're trapped. Like you've gotta have security for the rest of your life. I think it's mandatory. Like if you've been president, that means you are being constantly monitored. Yeah. For the rest of your life by the US government. Right? Like, so this, it's a similar fucking thing. Like you're, you're like, even if you have the best intention by the time you get in there and you have to start making these rotten decisions, and you have to feel the hate of at least half the country every fucking day.

1 (2h 7m 9s):
The psychic hate of half the country, probably more than half of the world. It crushes you. It kills you. So it's a, it's a really like dangerous, shitty, rotten job that you trapped yourself in. And then you don't wanna leave because what are you going to do? Like, what are you gonna do after you've experienced that level of power? How do you go back to a regular life?

4 (2h 7m 37s):
Well, you're never a regular person ever again. I mean No. Who, who has vanished the best? I guess w He's pretty much vanished.

1 (2h 7m 46s):
I mean, but well, look at what he started doing. He started doing those paintings of people. Weird paintings of military and the war that he started. Yeah.

4 (2h 7m 53s):
Weird paintings.

1 (2h 7m 55s):
I think Jimmy Carter did a pretty good vanishing act. Like you just, you kind of dropped out. You didn't hear about him that much. True Obama. Now he's like directing movies now and stuff. But

4 (2h 8m 4s):
W did two terms, you know? Yeah.

1 (2h 8m 9s):
Right.

4 (2h 8m 10s):
Two terms. Eight years during the, the height of the war on terror. It was right after nine 11 that he got elected. So he gets elected, it's 2020 and then 2021 or 2001 rather. We have nine 11. So it's like not that long after he was president. And then all of a sudden his approver rating goes up and everybody likes him more. Right. And for eight years, this guy was involved with Dick Cheney in this war that now everybody thinks of as a fucking catastrophe.

1 (2h 8m 42s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 8m 43s):
And he's just kind of melted away and he's just painting somewhere now. Just where people with machine guns like stand around and keep eye. Yeah. Out for everything. Because

1 (2h 8m 54s):
For sure there's someone coming for you. Like for sure There's somebody out there who's like, I'm just gonna kill him someday. I'm just gonna get to him. That's how you have to wake up. Just knowing that's that's your life. Fuck that

4 (2h 9m 6s):
Job. But like Sam Rushy, when he got attacked on stage, it's, that's like 20 years after the fought wall. Yeah.

1 (2h 9m 13s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 9m 13s):
Some guy came on stage and stabbed him. If you were like Dick Cheney, you can't go anywhere without worrying. Someone's gonna get you. I mean they made a movie about you where fucking, what's his name? Batman. Christian Bale played you. Yeah. I mean what? Yeah, dude. Like, and it's not favorable. Right? It's not favorable movie. Like, what did you guys do

1 (2h 9m 36s):
I mean? This is, what

4 (2h 9m 37s):
Did you do?

1 (2h 9m 37s):
This is why they, there's a whole strata of society that's designed for people like that that you know, I'll never see. It's some rarefied place with,

4 (2h 9m 48s):
It's called Bohemian Grove. Ha.

1 (2h 9m 50s):
Give me a break.

4 (2h 9m 51s):
You can go there by canoe.

1 (2h 9m 52s):
Did you watch that video?

4 (2h 9m 53s):
No. You told me some guy broke into it.

1 (2h 9m 55s):
Dude, it is the most,

4 (2h 9m 57s):
What's the video? Where do we get it?

1 (2h 9m 58s):
I Google guy breaks into Bohemian Grove. It's truly

4 (2h 10m 1s):
Not truly disappointing. Jones and John Ronson. It's

1 (2h 10m 3s):
Truly disappointing the nineties. But, and I think they, they definitely get high there. 'cause I think he saw a sign in one of the cabins that said, no marijuana. Is it this guy? I No, that's, I think there's a few people that have done it. This might be someone introducing it. But the one I saw was just first person. POV of the guy going through the Bohemian grove. This isn't it. No, this isn't it. It's at night. They might have, it was on Instagram. They might have already zapped it. There it is. Which one? This one Our guy sneaks into infamous Bohemian Grove. That could be it. But I guess a lot of people have done this. This is something I was posted two days ago. So Yeah. This is it. That's it. He got in deep,

4 (2h 10m 41s):
Just posted 10 days ago. Oh, okay. This must be it. Okay, so this is him a little bit. He's wearing a mask. And how's he sneaking in through the woods?

1 (2h 10m 51s):
I heard it was a kayak, but maybe not.

4 (2h 10m 55s):
Mm. Well how did he get in? I'll back

1 (2h 11m 1s):
Up. No idea. I know.

4 (2h 11m 2s):
So I just shined my light

11 (2h 11m 3s):
In here and all the lights, all the lights just turned on.

4 (2h 11m 9s):
Whoa.

10 (2h 11m 13s):
Fuck.

4 (2h 11m 15s):
Yo. I want to go to Ian Grove.

1 (2h 11m 17s):
Me too. We could go. We could go. You could go in a second. I want to go and like,

4 (2h 11m 21s):
What do we have to do? What do, who do we have to pledge our allegiance to? To watch the ritual?

1 (2h 11m 26s):
I don't think that, I think they would just probably think you're funny and we'll let you in. Really? Yes. Look, does this look sin? None of this looks sinister to me.

4 (2h 11m 35s):
It looks a little sinister to me buddy. Looks like no one's there.

1 (2h 11m 39s):
Nice and

4 (2h 11m 40s):
Mossy. Don't. They don't have a ritual every day.

1 (2h 11m 41s):
It's romantic. Look at that nice moss because

4 (2h 11m 44s):
That's the owl.

1 (2h 11m 45s):
That's the owl. But watch when he bangs on it and you realize it's fucking hollow.

4 (2h 11m 49s):
Look, it's got the moss and everything on it.

1 (2h 11m 50s):
It's beautiful.

4 (2h 11m 52s):
It looks cool. So when is he banging on it? Look,

1 (2h 11m 55s):
This is inside the fucking owl.

4 (2h 11m 57s):
Okay.

1 (2h 11m 58s):
Not a stone megalith like I thought. Well

4 (2h 12m 1s):
It's like a got a little space in there, but it seems like it's made outta cement. Dude.

1 (2h 12m 9s):
Whatever. It's hollow.

4 (2h 12m 11s):
Like an Easter egg. Or I go to those bunnies when you get a Easter bunny. Yep. It's a hollow. You get upset. Like

1 (2h 12m 17s):
A pup putt golf course. Like a fucking thing at a PT putt course. No offense Bohemian girl members. I do wanna come. I'll take your hollow out. But I'm sorry. This to me, I think it like now this is their, this is I guess their bathroom. It's all worn.

4 (2h 12m 34s):
That's Nixon shit there. It's

1 (2h 12m 35s):
All worn down. It's like a, yeah,

4 (2h 12m 37s):
It's probably, they kept it the same as it's always been. This is nice. I mean, if you gotta imagine if these guys were going there. What? When they start going there in the sixties? Yeah. When did they start going there? Oh yeah. Logs.

1 (2h 12m 51s):
That's the funny thing. Everything he sees is sinister to him. There he goes back in his kayak.

4 (2h 12m 56s):
Oh, okay. So he did have a

1 (2h 12m 57s):
Kayak. He's fucking out. Kind

4 (2h 12m 58s):
Of seems kind of crazy that they don't have any security there at all.

1 (2h 13m 2s):
Another sign that it's not as sinister as we thought.

4 (2h 13m 5s):
Is he using a frying pan? This guy's a loon. He guy's a straight loon. He's a frying pan. Maybe fella. He would also act as a weapon to crack alligators over the head with they're coming after him or something. There's no alligators in California. What am I saying?

1 (2h 13m 20s):
I'm sure the security guard was just like, this happens every night. And this one he is like, I gotta take a shit. Like I'm not dealing with another,

4 (2h 13m 27s):
Another fucking loony.

1 (2h 13m 29s):
But

4 (2h 13m 29s):
Like, but the thing is like we know that world leaders at least used to meet there. I mean the, the Nixon audio tapes are hilarious. Ever hear Nixon talking about it? The Aggies thing I've ever seen.

1 (2h 13m 41s):
Yeah. Nixon did it.

4 (2h 13m 43s):
See, see if Nixon pull up the audio of Nixon. Talk about Bohemian Grove. Apparently they did a lot of wild shit back then.

1 (2h 13m 50s):
I think they still probably do. I'm not saying they don't party there, but I just,

4 (2h 13m 54s):
How many politicians are like that? How many politicians are like closet super perverts

12 (2h 13m 59s):
In January, 1970? I

1 (2h 14m 0s):
Don't,

4 (2h 14m 1s):
You know,

12 (2h 14m 5s):
In another of the can sometimes course conversations released today the president muses about antisemitism. He's talking to evangelist Billy Graham and worries about reaction to the Washington visit of Israeli Prime Minister Golden Ma Air. Because Israel has just shot down Ian passenger plane. There was

14 (2h 14m 23s):
This antisemitism is almost hysteria about the bombing. No, we all

7 (2h 14m 28s):
Know. I'm sorry, don don't know where in this video it is.

1 (2h 14m 31s):
Oh, probably hard to find. It's probably a little clip.

4 (2h 14m 35s):
Yeah. You gotta find the Bohemian grove part.

7 (2h 14m 38s):
I thought it would just be the only thing on the video. Clearly it's not apparently some other

1 (2h 14m 43s):
Tape. Yeah. Where are the weirdos?

4 (2h 14m 45s):
He's just talking about all kinds of shit from the lost Nixon tapes. Gays are born that way. Oh, he was right. Congratulations.

7 (2h 14m 53s):
Yeah. don don't know. I swear I mean I know We've played this before. Yeah, it's not coming up right away.

4 (2h 14m 57s):
Nixon Bohemian Grove, huh? Yeah. Nothing. Scroll down a little bit. Maybe it starts to get

7 (2h 15m 1s):
Muddier.

1 (2h 15m 2s):
Seems like you'd find it right away.

7 (2h 15m 4s):
Right? Amage approval.

4 (2h 15m 7s):
Hmm.

1 (2h 15m 8s):
I mean Nixon on Bohemian

4 (2h 15m 13s):
Grove's. Same video.

1 (2h 15m 14s):
Let's see. It's the same video. Yeah. Oh, one minute.

4 (2h 15m 18s):
No, this is it. This is the right one. This 1971

15 (2h 15m 22s):
Bloom in Washington DC President Nixon took the time to have an impromptu conversation with two of his close aides. HR Haldeman.

4 (2h 15m 31s):
Look at that guy, John Burman. They look like dudes from the sixties

15 (2h 15m 35s):
As the Berlin Wall because of their German sounding names and their penchant for isolating Nixon from anyone who wanted to see him. The only problem was this little off the cuff conversation was being recorded by the secret White House taping system President. Nixon's thoughts and lo of those of Haldeman and Ehrlichman when sued become a part of presidential history.

16 (2h 16m 2s):
Let's look at, let's, let's look at Northern California. Understand. Yeah. You know what? San San Francisco, Francisco just gone clear over, but it

4 (2h 16m 12s):
San Francisco's just gone clear. It's not just the ratty part of town. The upper class in San Francisco is that way. The Bohemian grove that I attend from time to time, Easterners that come there. There's the most faggy goddamn thing you could ever imagine. The San Francisco crowd who lives there. It's just terrible. Shake hands. Everybody. I don wanna shake hands? Anybody from San Francisco?

16 (2h 16m 35s):
It's, it's, it's a different set of

1 (2h 16m 38s):
Values. I messed up my grove.

4 (2h 16m 41s):
A different set of values.

1 (2h 16m 44s):
Yeah. Reagan.

4 (2h 16m 46s):
So they were all there hanging out together.

1 (2h 16m 49s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 16m 49s):
He said, I go there from time to time.

1 (2h 16m 52s):
Yeah. I just don't think it's I mean. Look, I, I I was hoping, I was so excited by that video. I'm grateful to whoever filmed it. 'cause I was like, oh shit, the owl up close. 'cause Alex Jones only get got the distant owl, which is still good footage. Right. But this is like close up of the owl. You miss the urn in front. They have a, a bowl in front of the owl. I mean, again, I can't believe I have an expectation for the Bohemian grove, but I thought they would be doing better upkeep on their cabins.

4 (2h 17m 17s):
Well, maybe once they got found out, they don't go there anymore.

1 (2h 17m 21s):
Move to a different grove. Yeah.

4 (2h 17m 22s):
I mean, why wouldn't they just abandon that fucking thing? If you're the Illuminati? If the Illuminati's real, why would you stick with a place that's already been like outed when you can get some dope spot in Wyoming or something.

1 (2h 17m 33s):
Exactly.

4 (2h 17m 34s):
Yeah. You just get some place where people have to helicopter in. Yeah. You, no one's gonna hike in. No one knows where the fuck it is. Everybody's shut your mouth. Right?

1 (2h 17m 42s):
Yeah. don don't, it's

4 (2h 17m 43s):
Burning man.

1 (2h 17m 44s):
Hey, maybe, hey, if I, I'll tell you this. If I would not doubt if there were an Illuminati, it would not surprise me at all to know some of them go to Burning Man. That would make sense.

4 (2h 17m 54s):
I would imagine they would go just to keep their fucking finger on the pulse. Yeah. Like, what are you freaks up to?

1 (2h 17m 59s):
Dude, they flew the one I went to. They flew f what are they called? F 20 twos. They just, there's a military base near there that wanted to fuck with Burning Man. Whoa. And they flew over Burning Man a few times just to blow everyone's mind and freak everyone out. It was tripping. How

4 (2h 18m 14s):
Fast were they going? Fast

1 (2h 18m 15s):
As fuck. It was crazy.

4 (2h 18m 16s):
How low were they?

1 (2h 18m 17s):
Low? It was like s like it was really low. So I mean? I, I I was, I was pretty high. So I'm not, I'm not really sure. But yeah, it was so funny looking around at the faces of all the burners after like high tech military aircraft just flew over. I think they just wanted to look at the festival probably.

4 (2h 18m 37s):
No, they were fucking with those people. They're having fun.

1 (2h 18m 40s):
I would do that if I was a fighter pilot. Definitely Fly over party, man.

4 (2h 18m 43s):
Man. How you have fun. Those fucking dirty hippies clean your feet.

1 (2h 18m 46s):
They're not all hippies.

4 (2h 18m 48s):
Oh no. There's a lot of different kinds of weirdos that go to those things. but it is interesting, like how significant it is a part of people's lives that they go to Burning Man. Like it becomes like a thing that they look forward to, like their Olympics every year.

1 (2h 19m 2s):
It's one of the best things I ever experienced as far as like festivals Go I mean change my life for the better. For sure. It's incredible. I mean it really, you I know that you will never go, but if you did go, you, you would get it. And that's a that's what I, I love it. Oh,

4 (2h 19m 15s):
I get

1 (2h 19m 16s):
It. It's got a force field around it. A cultural force field where people have an idea about what it is and you can't really have an idea about what it is. 'cause it's too big. Right. Your idea about what it is is correct. Like for a, a piece of the pie. But you really can't under, you can't know all of what it is other than like this incredible expression of art and an incredible, like, temporary example of like, humans can do this too. We don't have to blow shit up. We can drive around and garish fancy art cars dressed like weirdos with like, playing like awesome music and like just have fun together. Like that is possible too.

1 (2h 19m 57s):
And the fact that it's hard to get there and a difficult terrain definitely helps strain some people out. So the people who come there are really fascinating. I mean, I'm telling you man, it's like the force field where people are like, that's where douche bags go. Or that's where annoying ass fucking hippies go. Yes, you are correct. They're there, but that's not all that's there. And so, right. It's a mystical I mean, I'm telling you, it's a mystical place. It's one of the most mystical things I ever encountered out there. Well,

4 (2h 20m 25s):
That's probably what's going to have to happen somewhere. Just like the United States of America. Like the United States of America is only three people old. You know, like just, if you just stop and think about what these people decide to do to escape the confines of a society that they found themselves trapped in and all the tyranny they escaped and they came to a new land, started new. And there's a lot of, you know, not, not a happy story in all, in all forms. No, it's a lot of fucked up things went down. But the idea that that can never happen again seems kind of silly. Like it's happened so many times. Right. I mean it wouldn't be an easy thing to do and people are definitely gonna resist. That's the thing that you have to be like really aware of.

4 (2h 21m 7s):
If you tried to start another country right now, the country you are from would come and fuck with you. They do not want you doing that. Like if we just like, imagine what if the climate change people are right. And everybody looked at Greenland going, you get Greenland pretty fucking cheap. Yeah. And we just went in and bought Greenland. You know, like remember there was a joke that Trump was talking about buying Greenland? Yes. He promised that he wouldn't do this. He put a meme up. It was hilarious. Of a giant like Trump tower. It says Trump on it because I promise I won't do this to Greenland. Yeah. It was so funny. Like, who the fuck is is that much awareness Yeah. As a, a president to do that. But, but if someone bought Greenland and if climate change does keep happening and like all of a sudden Greenland like come becomes nice.

4 (2h 21m 50s):
Yeah. Becomes a good spot temperate climate because of where it's at. It's like the rest of the world's a little too hot, but greenland's perfect. And then the people that escape What's wrong with how the United States has been run? What's wrong with money in politics? What's wrong with money in the pharmaceutical industrial complex? Yeah. Being able to advertise and control politicians and all the shit that you saw over the last few years and all the shit you see with war. All the shit you see right now. If someone started a new one.

1 (2h 22m 20s):
Yeah. Good luck. Good luck. Is I mean? You, you need space colonization for that to have like, you need some kind of, or a

4 (2h 22m 27s):
Disaster or

1 (2h 22m 28s):
A second disaster.

4 (2h 22m 29s):
Giant disaster. Like a big one. Yeah. Like a big crazy asteroid impact type deal where everything's fucked.

1 (2h 22m 38s):
Collective consciousness shift. I mean I know, that's like such new age bullshit to say. But like, theoretically if there was some shift in consciousness, then maybe there would be a a oh you would really have to have like a complete shift in like value. And then if that happened you could see some new way of running things. Well

4 (2h 22m 59s):
Don't you think that that shift is happening right in front of our eyes? It's hard to see because we're looking at it through the lens of a person who exists day by day. But if you just went back to when you and I, when did we first meet,

1 (2h 23m 13s):
Dude? 2012.

4 (2h 23m 15s):
No,

1 (2h 23m 15s):
But pre 2012. 'cause we were talking about mine apocalypse.

4 (2h 23m 18s):
When did you first start working at the store?

1 (2h 23m 23s):
Late nineties. Oh yeah. I've been there for a long time. Dude, I'm really bad with

4 (2h 23m 27s):
2012 was nuts. I've I've known you from the

1 (2h 23m 30s):
Nineties. No, dude, I'm so bad with time. Like, I

4 (2h 23m 31s):
Think I met you in like 99

1 (2h 23m 33s):
Or something like that. 99 probably nine, nine.

4 (2h 23m 34s):
Something like that. Nine nine 2000. Back then marijuana was illegal. And the only way to get ahold of it in California was you have to have a medical license. Right. So we used to get medical licenses to get it. Oh yeah. And the idea of psychedelics at all being accepted in any positive way, it was alien. Right. You never heard about PTSD being treated like maps wasn't true. They hadn't done their studies yet. Right. With MDMA, they hadn't done the psilocybin studies. You hadn't heard about Ibogaine for helping people get off opiates. Opiates weren't even a problem then. Right. It wasn't, there wasn't not a, not a thing that people were talking about. Right. To go from that to where we are now, where their states that have decriminalized it and then it was up for, there was a proposal for California, but Newsom rejected it because they didn't have like a protocol in place.

4 (2h 24m 25s):
He said, come back when you have like some sort of a Yeah. If you're gonna use it for therapy, some sort of a therapeutic protocol, which, you know, probably makes sense. Yeah. Like not just decriminalizing it, but but decriminalizing it and setting boundaries for use. Like, this is how you should do it. Right? Like if you weigh 150 pounds, this is what you need. Or I guess it's not even weight dependent apparently. Apparently mushrooms are not weight dependent.

1 (2h 24m 47s):
No way. That's

4 (2h 24m 48s):
Interesting. Yeah. That's, well, don don't know how they know that though. Like, how many studies have they written done with dosing people, you know, you know, that are a hundred pounds up to 300 pounds. How, how many studies have they done on that? But, but the thing is they're doing those studies now and you can get ketamine from a fucking licensed therapist now. Right. And people are traveling on a regular basis to go to South America to do ayahuasca. It's really common right's, ayahuasca tourism, everybody talks about doing it right. There's so many people that are microdosing. There's so many people in Silicon Valley that are microdosing Right. And openly talking about it. It's a different world than it was just from the time you and I met. Right. So it's happening right in front of us. Right. It's just not moving at a pace that corresponds with our understanding of it.

4 (2h 25m 31s):
Right. Like we are, we are saying like, how can you say it's illegal? Like how are you making it illegal? It doesn't make any sense. This is a, a thing that's made by people to control other people. And in this one, you're not helping anyone. Right. You're hurting people. It's overall known that this is a fact. Right. But it's taking time. Yeah. For that idea to be accepted, people have to die. Generations have to pass. New ideas have to be cemented in people's heads because they're so ideologically entrenched in what they initially believed. Right. That's why it's so hard for vegans to go back to eat meat. Like they can't

1 (2h 26m 6s):
Flow drip baby I mean look I know, you know, again, it's like, this is the other thing is like if you, you know, judge a tree by its fruit. I love what you're pointing out there. If you look at the fact that this is happening, the implication is there are people in positions of power recognizing that there's just no fucking way we're gonna legalize acid and mushrooms and MDMA, you fucking hippies. We're not doing it overnight. No. Give us some time. There's people who clearly recognize that and are slowly turning the dial and shifting into whatever the future of humanity looks like, where we're not encumbered by draconian consciousness limitations.

1 (2h 26m 49s):
So yeah. You know the implications, there's people in positions of power who are 100% for humans having access to their birthright. And that's exciting to think about. I wonder who those people are. No idea. But I'm glad they're out there.

4 (2h 27m 7s):
We're had such a weird time.

1 (2h 27m 9s):
Yeah, man. But a great

4 (2h 27m 10s):
Time. It's, it's all happening like right in front of us. It's just all at once and so many things from so many and we have so much access to it. And then we also have so many lies and it's all of just slamming into each other left and right in front of us. Like little ideological car

1 (2h 27m 27s):
Accidents, I know, just

4 (2h 27m 28s):
Like the truth and fiction and narrative and bullshit and what you wanna believe versus what's really true.

1 (2h 27m 35s):
Oh yeah. Oh, I get grabbed all the time.

4 (2h 27m 37s):
Bad guys and good guys and fucking bang, bang, bang, bang. Yeah. And the, the way one group of people looks at one thing versus the way another group of people, and they all both seem kind of like rational. Yeah. Like

1 (2h 27m 49s):
How,

4 (2h 27m 49s):
How are you guys so far apart in your ideas? How is this I know? How are we so divided about so many unimportant things? Yeah. When the important things are not being resolved. Like none of the important, like if you really wanted to control people, you would want to keep them doing what we're doing. Just constantly arguing about the dumbest shit, the things that we can't, and having very little understanding of what you're really fucking passionate about. Right. And you're just still yelling it out anyway.

1 (2h 28m 22s):
Yeah. I mean. Yeah. You wanna, and also you want to make them feel completely impotent and completely out of control and helpless. Yeah. And, and, and the only way you can do that is by again and again, make them think that they are a limited, temporary, organic body that when it dies, it's dead forever. Make them feel like this is all there is. So you better fucking go for it. And going for it means grinding and hurting other people to get your fucking whatever it is you're looking for. Because that's all you got anyway, man. Yeah. And you gotta, so if you keep the fixation on that paradigm, then yeah, you can probably control a shit ton of people.

1 (2h 29m 8s):
Well,

4 (2h 29m 8s):
That's what they liked about Covid. One of the things they liked about it was that they could control you if they could get you to get vaccinated. If they could get you to do that, they could force you to do a thing that's a level of control they've never had over adults before. It's a new thing, you know? And if it's profitable and it's also this thing you're forcing people to do. Boy, that gets sketchy. Boy that gets sketchy. Well,

1 (2h 29m 32s):
Yeah. I mean, but it, it's a, there's so many other,

4 (2h 29m 35s):
And it happened.

1 (2h 29m 37s):
Did you ever see the video of someone bitching about seatbelt laws?

4 (2h 29m 41s):
Yes. I love it. It's from like the 1970s. I'll

1 (2h 29m 45s):
Never wear a fucking

4 (2h 29m 45s):
Seatbelt. Basically commoners, McCain, Hey, have a beer after you get home from work. Yeah. That's, that's the guy's talking about.

1 (2h 29m 52s):
I I feel like there's been endless iterations of this sort of flexing where you're like, you can't do that anymore.

4 (2h 29m 59s):
Yeah. Well it's just the insurance. That's the seatbelt thing. It was just people were dying and it's like, oh yeah, too much money. And they made laws hard to care about you. But our

1 (2h 30m 8s):
Our willingness to accept regulation.

4 (2h 30m 13s):
Exactly. Our willingness to accept regulations. I'm trying to pull up this, so I'm looking for this, this thing because it's, it's wild hearing him say it. Yeah. Here it is. And you hear fauci actually say it. It's just like, wow. Why would you say that out loud? Like, you're, this is not, this is not what you should be saying. Like, listen to this because this is what everybody suspected that they thought this way. Talk

1 (2h 30m 47s):
About someone who faded out. Whatever happened to him. He just disappeared.

4 (2h 30m 50s):
He's in a coffin somewhere waiting for the, the Moon.

17 (2h 30m 53s):
He reveals what he really wanted out of all those covid mandates.

18 (2h 30m 58s):
Once people feel empowered and protected legally, you are gonna have schools, universities and colleges are gonna say, you want to come to this college buddy, you're gonna get vaccinated. It's been proven that when you make it difficult for people in their lives, they lose their ideological bull and they get vaccinated.

1 (2h 31m 22s):
Wow. Dude. If if that wasn't a movie, it'd be cheesy. That's like you, like the they don't know the hot mic is on the villain gets revealed. Yeah.

4 (2h 31m 29s):
What

1 (2h 31m 30s):
The fuck? I never saw

4 (2h 31m 31s):
That. Isn't that wild? Isn't it just wild that he thinks that way? That's

1 (2h 31m 35s):
Why they fucking turned his mic off, dude. 'cause they're like, Hey you, what the fuck are you doing? You, we only say that at the Bohemian Grove. Well, you can't say out loud

4 (2h 31m 43s):
That is read Robert Kennedy's book. Robert Kennedy's book is more terrifying. And I've always said, if it's not true, why isn't he getting sued, dude? Because it is true. If it is true, you'd shoot all be freaked out and I know millions of people have read that book now, but it's not reviewed. You, you don't hear it talked about. It's not like a thing the mainstream media brings up just the actual facts that he's laying out. Just not even from covid, from the AIDS epidemic. Just go back and listen. Just read, read that book or listen to the audio book and just to stuff about a ZT is wild. And using the same language he was using it. The a ZT is both safe and effective.

4 (2h 32m 23s):
Really using that same language for something that fucking killed people quicker than anything. Dude,

1 (2h 32m 29s):
If only they had been, I, I feel like if they'd been honest when they came out with the vaccine and been like, it's, it's,

4 (2h 32m 38s):
That's no way. There's

1 (2h 32m 38s):
No do, there's a chance it's gonna fuck you up. That's

4 (2h 32m 41s):
Not what they do. They never do that.

1 (2h 32m 42s):
Never. But then if they done that, that's so like to do.

4 (2h 32m 44s):
They can't start doing that Duncan. They've never done that. Not only do they not do that, but they're allowed to run multiple studies. And if they can find one that they can rig in a way that's some sort of a finagle, shows some kind of positive benefit, that's the one they run with. And they can have eight studies that don't show it, or eight studies that show it's bad and they just push it away. And then on top of that, what gets even weirder is when someone goes to review these studies, they don't get the actual data. They get the review of the data from the pharmaceutical drug companies and then they get to review what their findings were. They don't get to review the actual data.

4 (2h 33m 25s):
The whole thing is nuts.

1 (2h 33m 27s):
You really think that Covid vaccine was bad for you?

4 (2h 33m 29s):
What? I'm

1 (2h 33m 30s):
Just kidding.

4 (2h 33m 32s):
I don't even think that, that's not even what I'm saying. What I'm saying is they have a standard way that they handle any kind of medication. Yeah, dude. That's how you make the most money.

1 (2h 33m 42s):
I mean. It's when like, you know, that collision between profit and medicine, it's such a dark place. It's so dark when you're at the hospital and you realize they have a motive to keep you here. Like the doctors, they've done their oath. They might not, but the hospital itself can implement certain rules and regulations that have a higher probability of keeping you in there longer so that it's more expensive. And, and that's where it gets fucking weird. And when it comes to pharmaceutical companies or anything that's profiting off of sickness. Yeah. It's like, you know, it's like the, the, I don't know if there's a, what, what do you call the sugar industry?

1 (2h 34m 25s):
Big sugar. Big sugar. Big sugar in the pharmaceutical companies. These are like happy bedfellows because one is poison, the other fixes the damage from the poison. And so when suddenly there's a profit motive behind it, ooh, shit's gonna get weird because the lobbyists for the pharmaceutical companies theoretically would not want regulation on weird dyes and shit. That big sugar's putting in stuff because that is gonna reduce the profit for whatever medication they use to treat the damage from the fucking dyes.

4 (2h 34m 59s):
Isn't

1 (2h 34m 59s):
That nuts? Do they work together? Do they have meetings about this? How much have they thought it through? You know, we're gonna see a big dip in our insulin profits if they regulate how much sugar is in Oreos. Like there's gonna be a direct hit on our fucking industry if that happens.

4 (2h 35m 19s):
Do you think they do it that far?

1 (2h 35m 21s):
I don't think so. I pray, I pray that they don't, but it wouldn't

4 (2h 35m 25s):
Surprise it. But boy wouldn't you do it if you, if you had an obligation to your shareholders, you're supposed to make the most amount of money possible. Isn't that part of your job?

1 (2h 35m 32s):
That's what you'd tell yourself. I guess you to,

4 (2h 35m 34s):
You would have to do it that way. Yeah man. You have to say like, let these people eat their fucking sugar I. don wanna buy a yacht.

1 (2h 35m 41s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 35m 42s):
I wanna eat their goddamn sugar.

1 (2h 35m 43s):
You know, just say the cereals fucking good for you.

4 (2h 35m 45s):
Cereal's good for you.

1 (2h 35m 46s):
It's fucking great for you. It's great

4 (2h 35m 48s):
For you.

1 (2h 35m 49s):
This is the healthiest.

4 (2h 35m 49s):
Do you know one of the biggest drugs, emerging drugs like over the last few years has been blood thinners?

1 (2h 35m 56s):
No, I didn't know that.

4 (2h 35m 57s):
Yeah. How much of an increase in the prescriptions for blood thinners have there been over the last few years? What is that for? Someone was talking about it 'cause of strokes. Someone was talking about it. I need to find out if it's true though. It's one of those things that I was watching this YouTube video with some doctors discussing the uptick in blood thinners. They were also talking about heart medications and heart issues and the uptick in heart issues. That's so scary. It's a, it's a large uptick. It's an uptick that if it was anything else, people would be really looking into it. If it was a diet, if all of a sudden, like some new food was introduced into the food system that we never ate before, but then all of a sudden there was a corresponding big uptick in all cause mortality.

4 (2h 36m 37s):
People would start thinking like, I wonder if it's this new thing that just got introduced. Like if it was anything else. Do you

1 (2h 36m 44s):
Remember when? Okay, so don don't know if you remember science class, but I, I remember one of the things that I thought was exciting about science. Was it, or maybe I just had a good teacher who's like, anyone can be a scientist. Like that's the whole beauty of the method, right? This is a way to interrogate reality. Yes. To find out what the truth is. And, and, and you know anyone, you don't have to wear a fucking lab coat. Anyone should and could use this method to dis to differentiate superstition from reality, cognitive bias from reality. It's very exciting suddenly to be like, oh yeah, I don't have to be Isaac Newton to be a scientist. Right? I, I can just use these methods in my own weird little experiments.

1 (2h 37m 24s):
And then something happened where suddenly the articulation of what you think is the truth, even if you're fucking wrong, became off limits. You couldn't say what you're talking about right now out loud. You weren't supposed to anymore. And people would even say, don't do your own research. Right. Don't investigate. Stop you. You're not of the scientific class. You. Don't even understand this shit. Stop it's misinformation when it's like, fuck. Like instead of saying stop challenge it. Like my favorite. It's funny reading the arguments between physicists, I know if you've ever seen that when they fight s like when scientists get in big fucking fights.

1 (2h 38m 6s):
It's so funny. And that was part of this tradition of science is like scientists weren't all these placid like soft sweets.

4 (2h 38m 15s):
They are. When you deny them funding, if they're not,

1 (2h 38m 18s):
Oh god, that's so dark.

4 (2h 38m 20s):
And that's what happens. Money takes over medicine. So

1 (2h 38m 24s):
Fucked up.

4 (2h 38m 25s):
Money takes over politics, money takes over military money takes over environment money takes over green energy dunking. It's all about green energy. It's all about the green deal. Our green deal's gonna fix it all green. Oh yeah. And people are just raking in money on this green deal.

1 (2h 38m 44s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 38m 44s):
This green deal. We got partners in the green deal. Fuck yeah. We're gonna stop this and gonna form that and we're gonna have a coalition and no more gas cars. And then everybody's car has a limit on it. Now you can only go 65 miles an hour. That's it.

1 (2h 38m 59s):
Yeah. Forever.

4 (2h 38m 60s):
That's gonna reduce deaths. Don't you wanna reduce tests? And we wanna kill switch I mean what if a bad guy's running away? We could just stop and we shut the car off.

1 (2h 39m 7s):
No more police chases.

4 (2h 39m 8s):
Or what if you have a bad tweet,

1 (2h 39m 11s):
Stop your fucking

4 (2h 39m 12s):
Car and we just decide to stop your car and don't even tell you why we stop your,

1 (2h 39m 15s):
Your car pulls over and it says fucking retweet it. It's not, or revise not. I would actually would like that for my own funny tweet tweets. Is there

4 (2h 39m 22s):
Something you'd like to fix? Like he pulls over and the thing just says, is there something you'd like to fix? That

1 (2h 39m 26s):
Tweet wasn't funny. Duncan yet

4 (2h 39m 28s):
Again. Is there something I should fix? Perhaps one of your tweets. Okay. Oh yeah, please delete the offending tweet. Okay. Continue. And then you can drive again. Yeah.

1 (2h 39m 39s):
Man,

4 (2h 39m 39s):
That's not outside the realm of possibility. If some guy got arrested and went to jail for shit, posting a meme about Hillary Clinton, about the voting thing, you know that one? Yeah. Dude. Where the guy said you don't have to go vote in person. Do 5, 5, 5. We, we found out that guy apparently, see if, I believe this is true, he just posted it. The guy who got arrested. don don't think he created it.

7 (2h 40m 1s):
When I was digging through that yesterday.

1 (2h 40m 3s):
He just posted a meme. He

7 (2h 40m 4s):
Did post it, but I couldn't tell in the wording of it if he'd asked someone to make it for him and then he posted it. I couldn't,

4 (2h 40m 10s):
I believe he said that he didn't make it. I believe he said that in an interview. Oh.

7 (2h 40m 14s):
But if he asked someone to make

4 (2h 40m 15s):
It for him, right. That's possible too. Yeah.

7 (2h 40m 17s):
Or paid someone to make it for

4 (2h 40m 18s):
Him, you know? Right. Totally possible. Dude, that's Yeah, that would be different. You could say I didn't make it. Yeah. Yeah.

1 (2h 40m 22s):
The fucking ecar thing, man. That it's just like, dude, I don't want to have something monitoring me all the fucking time. Like an ecar or like you were saying, I don't want the ability for someone to turn this shit off or

4 (2h 40m 37s):
I think they already have it in some cars. I think they have it with OnStar. I think that's one of the cap. See if that's true is on scar OnStar have the capability of shutting off a car, a gas car. It's a hot pursuit gas car.

1 (2h 40m 50s):
Oh fuck.

4 (2h 40m 50s):
I believe so. I believe so. I believe it's a computer program. 'cause it, it allows you to start your car and it'll open. You can have like all, like a friend of mine locked his keys accidentally in his Suburban. He called OnStar. OnStar unlocked his car so he could go in and get his keys. Yeah.

7 (2h 41m 9s):
On their website. They, they sell, it's part of what they sell.

4 (2h 41m 12s):
Okay. What does it sell? It's like

7 (2h 41m 13s):
If you're getting carjacked,

4 (2h 41m 14s):
Kidnapped carjacked and kidnapped. When a woman's SUV is stolen with their mother and grandchildren inside OnStar helped save the day. That's great. So on OnStar shut the car off. Yeah. So that's great. If it does this, if a woman got kidnapped with their cute little kid, I want know if those are real people or if those are crisis hack

1 (2h 41m 29s):
OnStar stops fleeing felon and stutter kill.

4 (2h 41m 32s):
Yeah. So OnStar already has the ability to do that. So that kill switch that everybody's asking for already exists. If you have some cars and if those, is it just a GM that has OnStar because OnStar only General Motors? Or is it like just a car thing? I feel like it's like a General Motors thing. I think it's Cadillacs and Yeah, it's

7 (2h 41m 55s):
A, it's part of General Motors.

4 (2h 41m 56s):
Yeah. I wonder if they allow it in other cars though. Is OnStar in other cars outside of General Motors cars or is it only

1 (2h 42m 5s):
I mean? The good news is no one will ever hack that and use it for other things. Never. It's completely safe. That will never be used.

4 (2h 42m 12s):
Yeah.

1 (2h 42m 12s):
Give up against what OnStar's using it for. It'll only stop kidnappers available

7 (2h 42m 18s):
In Oh, that's in China.

4 (2h 42m 19s):
No, the brick in the wall.

1 (2h 42m 22s):
Oh yeah. I remember being at a Pink Floyd laser light show when I was in high school and it was the saddest thing, man. 'cause another brick in the wall, we don't need no education comes on at a laser light show, which is already depressing 'cause it's definitely not Pink Floyd. and it wasn't even that good a laser light show. And the, there's a security guard. He's like, he's probably in his twenties. It's a shit job. He's gotta be the security guard at the laser light show. And then like the crowd turns on him, on

4 (2h 42m 53s):
The security guard

1 (2h 42m 54s):
Just because he was in a security guard uniform. And that song comes on and everyone starts raging against this guy. It was so weird. It's like, what are you gonna start attacking this guy? He's like,

4 (2h 43m 6s):
He's That's a problem with uniforms.

1 (2h 43m 9s):
Yeah, dude.

4 (2h 43m 10s):
Uniforms a allow you to assume a position of power over people. but it also, you become the enemy. Like you're wearing the, the uniforms of the authority. That's right. And you're a person. Dude. Most cops are just fucking people of all cops. They're just people. Yeah. Just humans. But you put 'em in a fucking outfit and you give 'em guns and like that's, you wanna talk about a responsibility that's difficult to handle.

1 (2h 43m 35s):
Oh God,

4 (2h 43m 37s):
That one's crazy.

1 (2h 43m 37s):
What? Dude, there's like some jobs in this world that I think about and they're like, mother fuck er doctor.

4 (2h 43m 44s):
Oh my god. Fuck

1 (2h 43m 45s):
That trauma doctor. Fuck that police officer. It's like, God, Christ in heaven. Every fucking night.

4 (2h 43m 53s):
Every fucking night.

1 (2h 43m 53s):
You're just driving around, you're thinking about your fucking kids. Yep. And you get a weird call and the next thing you know, there's some dude running at you with a chainsaw that you're begging to stop. 'cause you don't wanna fucking kill him. Right.

4 (2h 44m 8s):
Oh,

1 (2h 44m 9s):
What a horrible job. And they, the, the amount of money you should get paid for that versus what they make like

4 (2h 44m 16s):
Big, big gap.

1 (2h 44m 18s):
Big gap.

4 (2h 44m 19s):
Big gap.

1 (2h 44m 19s):
Yeah. And then you're getting PTSD. You're not sleeping at night. For sure.

4 (2h 44m 23s):
I was watching a video today of a, a guy telling a guy not to reach for his gun. He's got some guy pulled over. And he's like, do not reach into your band. Don't reach for that gun. Don't reach for your fucking gun. And the guy's like standing there with his hands like this and he just goes in and boom, the guy's gotta shoot him and you. And this dude just reaches for his gun. And then there was another one where they didn't realize this guy had a gun and he shot one of the cops and the other cop unloaded on him. Like, fuck man. Like every time they pull someone over, this is like a, some regular looking dude too. He didn't even look like a criminal. He looked like a, like a, a handsome young guy. Just, and then he just had a gun. He didn't look like a homeless person, didn't look like an ex-con. He just looked like a regular guy.

4 (2h 45m 3s):
And they pull him over and the guy, they, it took him by surprise. The guy just pulls a gun out, starts shooting. Like they never know when someone's a full on psycho. No, you're pulling people over and you're a cop and the lights are on. You got them in that pressure situation. Maybe they have warrants, you know, maybe they did something horrible just now and you didn't even know. You just pulled 'em over. Luckily, yeah, they're just shooting at you, Jesus. And so they have that fear every fucking time they pull someone over. Yeah.

1 (2h 45m 28s):
Yeah. And it's so funny, dude, I gotten into watch in those sovereign citizen videos. You ever watch those where, oh, those people

4 (2h 45m 34s):
Are

1 (2h 45m 34s):
Hilarious. And the cops like the, they're so sick of it and they like, it's the funniest thing to watch them like deal with their like fifth sovereign citizen who's like, it's so, but it's on top of all that other shit. You know, possibly getting your shot or your, the person you're working with gets shot. Also on top of that you're having to deal with like that other, just the, the other element. Well

4 (2h 45m 60s):
Also everybody's lying to you

1 (2h 46m 2s):
Naturally. Every,

4 (2h 46m 3s):
Everywhere you go you're running into people that have created problems. And when you talk to them, they're lying. Like that's gotta be like 90%. Are you, have you ever had a drink, sir? No. Have you, are you drinking tonight sir? You know, like why is she unconscious? Like what happened here? Why, where's, what's this blood coming from? Right? Like who, who hit this person who, you know what happened here? Yeah.

1 (2h 46m 23s):
All

4 (2h 46m 24s):
Day. All day.

1 (2h 46m 25s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 46m 25s):
Every day. Every day. Everyone's lying sucks. And everyone looks at you like the, you're the professional enemy. Especially if you have to work in an area that's crime written

1 (2h 46m 33s):
Dude, there's a great app people can get. Man, I can't remember the name of it, but like when you get pulled over and you're about to get popped, you just start the fucking app. 'cause it tells you what to do. Like so that you don't like you You don't have to like infuriate the fucking cop. That's just exactly what you say. Which is basically like, I'm gonna need a lawyer. Am I under arrest? Like all this stuff, but not so You. Don't have to like remember all this shit. Right? And so what, because what that does is if you do get busted that if you do this just the right way, then you have a higher chance of whatever the fuck you did being sort of dismiss. Thrown out, thrown out. Like I can't remember the name of the act. Just

4 (2h 47m 10s):
Take the right steps.

1 (2h 47m 11s):
You took the right steps. 'cause it's good. Know

4 (2h 47m 13s):
Those, you didn't say anything incriminating. Good

1 (2h 47m 14s):
To know those steps. 'cause by the way, that's the other fucking thing. Like their job is not to like suddenly befriend you at 3:00 AM when they fucking pull you over via didn't get you. Their job is to fucking find out did you commit a crime? Right? And if you fucking are so dumb that you admit to that, then that's kind of your fault. I mean that's your fault. So I, those like that app, I wish I could remember the fucking name of it. Dude,

4 (2h 47m 39s):
I have to be a third time. Me too.

1 (2h 47m 40s):
Thank God

7 (2h 47m 42s):
I'm getting pulled over. App. There's a

4 (2h 47m 43s):
Few of them I'm getting pulled over. App. Okay, let's wrap this up. Duncan Trussell your book one more time.

1 (2h 47m 50s):
Oh, the movie of me to the movie of we, it's an audio book, not

4 (2h 47m 54s):
A book. It's available on Audible. Audible, yeah.

1 (2h 47m 55s):
And it's only on Audible. It's not really a book. Okay. But it's on Audible. The movie of me to the movie of we

4 (2h 48m 2s):
And then your podcast,

1 (2h 48m 4s):
The Duncan Trussell Family Hour. And I'm gonna be the Denver Comedy Works in January. Please come. You can find one

4 (2h 48m 10s):
Of the greatest clubs ever.

1 (2h 48m 11s):
The in it used to be the Great Greatest Club before you fucked everything up with the mothership. But you can find all my dates at Duncan Trussell trestle

4 (2h 48m 19s):
Com. Alright, I love

1 (2h 48m 21s):
You. Love you.