0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night. All day.

0 (12s):
Hello. What's

3 (14s):
Up man? We're back. We're back. What's cracking?

4 (18s):
Same stuff. New day.

3 (20s):
Yeah. Sort of the war on Peptides is going on right now. It is. It is. Interesting.

4 (26s):
It to, to explain it is, is gonna take a little bit of time, but I'd love to dig into it 'cause I,

3 (31s):
Yeah, let's explain it. Because there is no reason why they would be banning these things other than for their own profit.

4 (42s):
You got it. You get the gist of it.

3 (43s):
That's, that's the only reason. So there is no danger that these things are causing, there's no public health concern. There's no people dropping dead. But meanwhile people are dropping dead from the ones that they have sanctioned.

4 (58s):
Yeah. And so I, I like to tell people what you're seeing is a symptom of a disease. And the same thing we do in healthcare. We don't talk about the symptoms. We don't treat the, we, we, we unfortunately do treat the symptom and not the root cause of the disease. And so to diagnose what the real issue is, we've gotta dig a little deeper into the history and what's going on there. And it's a pretty insidious disease and it's spread throughout all of the government. And that disease is private industry and its influence on the federal government and the decisions they make. And we're gonna talk a little bit about large language models later in, in the future of what I think healthcare is. But one of the critiques of large language models is it's only as good as the data you put in.

4 (1m 44s):
and I would argue that humanity is no different. It is only as good as the data that you put in. And so if the federal government and the FDA is going to allow an open door policy with big pharma, they're going to come to the conclusions and decisions and policies that benefit big pharma. And so if we take a little walk through history, you'll see time and time again how this has happened. So I'm gonna jump way back first. Okay. If you're good with this. Yeah. So you go way back. There was a small little company that reached out to the Third Reich and said, Hey, we need 150 participants for our clinical trial. The Nazi regime shipped 150 healthy Jewish women to this, this pharmaceutical company to test its products.

4 (2m 33s):
Literally within six months, there's letters back to the Third Reich from this pharmaceutical company saying, thank you so much for your cooperation. The women arrived in great health and working order. Unfortunately, none of them, none of them made it through the initial phases of our trial. They killed 150 women. We kindly request that you send us another 150 women. That little company became Bayer, which is now a mega pharmaceutical company. Holy and I say that shit because Right. That was the fifties. It would've changed by now. That was forever ago. Right. The world's a different place. We would never allow that today.

4 (3m 14s):
Jump forward post World War ii. I talked about this on RFKs podcast. Eisenhower had that

3 (3m 21s):
Can I pause, pause You there? Yeah. You said it was the fifties. It couldn't have been the fifties. Well,

4 (3m 24s):
The forties, sorry. And so Eisen jump forward to, is there a way to turn the volume down on

3 (3m 28s):
This? Yeah. There's a button or, or knob right there.

4 (3m 30s):
There we go. There you go. So jump forward to Eisenhower's speech, his famous speech about the military industrial complex. What a lot of people don't realize is there was a second half to that speech where Eisenhower warned the American people about the medical industrial complex. He warned that if we allow private industry to control monopolize and profiteer off of health and healthcare, that they will silo innovation, stifle innovation, and capitalize and monetize innovation. and I would argue that's a hundred percent what we've seen. And it's continuing.

4 (4m 10s):
So, and the reason I wanna walk the public through this is because to understand what's going on, you've gotta see the history of how it's happened. So now you jump forward to the eighties. Okay? Time and time again. When big pharma has had an opportunity to choose left or right, over and over again, they have chose profits over patient outcomes. So 1980s Bayer launches a hemophilia drug. They inadvertently contaminate thousands of specimens with HIV. They know that they've contaminated specimens with HIV, this drug with HIV virus.

4 (4m 50s):
What do they do? They have a decision. Destroy all of it or ship it to the public. Anyway, they shipped it into third world countries, Africa and Asian markets, and infected 20,000 people with the HIV virus. What this is the eighties when it was a death sentence. And so I say that to set the groundwork for why would they ban peptides? Look

3 (5m 13s):
At this from this article division of the pharmaceutical company, Bayer sold millions of dollars of blood clotting medicine for hemophiliacs medicine that carried a high risk of transmitting a AIDS to Asia and Latin America in the mid 1980s while selling a new safer product in the West, according to documents obtained by the New York Times. Holy shit.

4 (5m 34s):
And two, everything I referenced, Jamie, 'cause this was something last time. I, I am gonna mention a lot of controversial stuff. So I've listed reference after reference after reference on the ways Towell website. Anything that I reference will be on there as well. But so jump forward. They infect all these people with HIV. Okay? In the eighties, compounding pharmacies and specialty pharmacies and generic manufacturers attempted to create HIV treatment options that were affordable for third world countries. Because at the time it was like $14,000 a month for an HIV treatment to keep you alive. Nobody could afford that in those countries. So what happens does big pharma in a market they can't sell in a market, they can't touch in a market where they inadvertently infected, or I would say almost knowingly infected 20,000 people with HIV, they then lobby with the US government file and sue the shit out of all of these companies that were attempting to make cost effective generics.

4 (6m 35s):
It caught it up in litigation for three years before finally they bent to the will of the American people. And the feedback of, of the public, there was outrage over this. And finally, after three years of litigation, big pharma said basically, screw it. Go ahead and give them the HIV, let 'em make these HIV meds in these countries that aren't buying our product anyway. And so I just say all this, so you know, the people we're dealing with, right? And then you jump forward to the opioid crisis, which was predicated by the Valium crisis of the, I think that was the forties or fifties. And so time and time again. And so how does the FDA come to these conclusions?

4 (7m 19s):
It's because a majority of their funding comes from private industry. And a majority of their discussion, their talk track, their influenced their belief systems and their thought processes are being influenced by these companies. So when we talk about peptides today in specific, there's over 7,000 peptides on the market. Okay? What peptides didn't get banned. That answers the question in itself. The GLP one agonists insulin, those aren't banned. Those are all patented peptides. These are peptides, these are short chain, amino acids found naturally in nature. They were patented for the dosage and delivery mechanism.

4 (7m 59s):
'cause you cannot patent a, a molecule, you can only patent the delivery mechanism and the dosage. And so the FDA allows all those peptides, but it's because big pharma is monetizing them. And big pharma has their ear. And so we, we talked a little bit about this on the last podcast, and I didn't di dig as deep 'cause we didn't have as much time. We, we just burned so much time covering all of this crap. But one of the things I saw is it goes beyond the FDA, this insidious virus that this disease state that we're seeing the symptoms of carries all the way into the DEA. The DOJ when I was a, when I owned my own pharmacies and labs that build insurance, that was one of the things I was talking about.

4 (8m 45s):
I hired a former Department of Justice prosecutor to come in and help me build out my compliance program. And he told me, Brigham, when I was at the DOJ, we had an open meeting every month with the heads of the pharmacy benefit managers where they would come with stacks of papers, books of papers of people that they wanted us to federally indict. Okay? And so as I begin to layer this, you'll understand where this is going. So indict, if they can't indict someone, if they did nothing wrong, right? That would be the, the lens that the average American has. So let me explain. You have a, let's say I build a blood lab, which I did, and I go out and I educate clinicians on the importance of running comprehensive blood work.

4 (9m 32s):
I go to the insurance companies and I say, I would like to be in network with you, United, Cigna, Aetna. Their response is, go pound sand. We're not taking any more in-network contracts. So my options at that point are to lay everyone off, shut down and go home or bill them out of network. The issue with billing them out of network. And so, so the patients understand, or the, the listeners you're paying for out of network benefits and you're paying these big companies, these big insurance companies for the right to be able to choose where you get your blood work done, your blood work analysis, all of these things. What ends up happening is if you're out of network as a lab, as any of these, whether it's a, a blood lab, a genetic screening lab like Gary talked about the M-T-F-H-R test, the motherfucker test.

4 (10m 24s):
We were doing that eight, nine years ago. That was one of the tests we offered was this gene carrier test to identify the root cause of why people were having these issues. Any of it insurance said, no, we're not, you're, we're not gonna let you in network. So you're forced to bill outta network. What does that mean? They pay me 30% of bill charges. So if it costs me $300 and I need to make $350, I now have to basically bill the insurance $1,000 to get paid my $350. Are you following me? Yes. Okay. Now, what the insurance companies do is they wait till I've billed them millions and millions of dollars. Then they go sit down at a desk with the Department of Justice and they say, look at this.

4 (11m 7s):
This motherfucker billed us a thousand dollars a test on a test that should have been $350. Right? And I'm not blaming the Department of Justice. They are acting upon the information that they are given, right? They are being fed bad information by bad players. And that leads to bad decisions. And, and at that point, if they bring forth a case on somebody, you're done. And so it's, it's a terrifying space. And it's, it's in every branch of the government, there's such a long reach of the ability to impress upon people how, so they're, they're almost influencing decision making through enforcement rather than through legislation, right?

4 (11m 50s):
So the checks and balances are being cut out from under the American people because there is no checks or balance. Jesus. Does that make sense at all? And so th this is what I explained a again, on RFK was, but if you're, if you didn't do anything wrong, you have nothing to worry about. When I started this, the, the head of the DOJ who I hired to help me with compliance, he told me there's two things that will get you in trouble with the Department of Justice. A lot of money and bad facts. So if you're a successful entrepreneur, you're gonna generate a lot of money. And if you get on the wrong side of a pharmacy, I mean of a not a pharmacy benefit, matter of an insurance company, they're gonna generate the bad facts.

4 (12m 32s):
And now you're a target, and now you're on the Department of Justice target list. So doctors, it's beyond them being scared of getting kicked off contract to run these tests. It's beyond them being scared of the insurance companies cutting their reimbursements or not allowing them to participate in their plans. They're scared for their liberties and their freedoms. If, if they get on the wrong side of an insurance carrier, they're going to use the justice system as an attack dog to take you out. And this is the honest to god truth. I saw people who were innocent, who did nothing wrong, get federally indicted. And if you un understand anything about that process, the more you know, the more fucking terrifying it is.

4 (13m 16s):
It's terrifying, Joe, because as soon as they indict you, you're, you're, you're done in the court of public opinion, right? They, they release something in a way that makes it look like you're this terrible human. They skew the facts through the lens of the, of the insurance companies. And so the insurance companies are essentially saying, Hey, department of Justice, we built the case for you. Here it is. Look, these guys billed us $3 million. They fraudulently billed us and ran up the cost of healthcare. And that's the path they take. And then once you're on their radar, you, you don't get to present your half of the case. So to get an indictment, all it takes is a prosecutor presenting to a jury of your peers, which in the state of Texas has an eighth grade literacy level.

4 (14m 3s):
And they say, Hey, these guys billed, you know, United $5 million last year on lab tests that United say should have been, you know, $800,000. Do you think there's enough info to dig deeper? That's all an indictment is. Yeah, there's enough info to dig deeper. That sounds like bad facts and a lot of money, right? But now it goes beyond that. 90, 90 plus percent of the time, once they've indicted you, they file for an asset seizure. And so if you're an orthopedic surgeon and you are invested in one of these models with labs, all of a sudden you get indicted. They seize your ability to defend yourself.

4 (14m 44s):
All your bank accounts are cleared. They, they can seize your cars, they can take your assets. And it's, it's terrifying. And I'm not saying this to say the DO j's bad. I'm not, I don't think they're bad at all. I think they're given bad information and here to, for they act in accordance with the information they're given. And it's the same thing with the FDA. The FDA is acting in accordance with ba Merck is looking at over 200 peptides for patent, okay? They're actively investigating over 200 PE Ibut aorn, which is on the band list, just popped up phase two FDA trials with another pharmaceutical company. It's on the band list, but it's in FDA trials now.

4 (15m 25s):
So they can patent it and monetize it and have a monopoly on it.

3 (15m 28s):
And what does it do?

4 (15m 30s):
Ibut Morin is the one that helps stimulate growth hormone. People use it for weight loss and growth hormone production. It's a precursor and it's, again, it's a safe drug and it, but it's not even a drug. Again, it's a peptide. And so peptides are short chain, amino acids. And, and the only reason I go down the path of the DOJ stuff is to just give the public the awareness of it's beyond the FDA, it's in all branches of the government and bad info in equals bad decisions out. And so I think that this is, you know, if, if you look at it from a different lens, I go, okay, when I try to sit in the seat of an FDA decision maker, I look at it and say, to play devil's advocate, you know, it's one of two things.

4 (16m 16s):
Do you think the peptides dangerous? Do you think these short chain amino acids are dangerous? Because if so, you're allowing big pharma to use them. And there's no data that shows that any of these peptides that are on the band list are dangerous. Like BPC 1 57. And when I say band list, let me step back on that. They didn't ban the peptides. They reclassified the peptides under a category of dangerous. And through that, they indirectly have killed the market on those peptides because most doctors in America are not gonna write a drug that's on an FDA dangerous list because it opens them up to litigation and risk.

3 (16m 55s):
And what, what is the pr like, how do they classify something as dangerous? Don't they have to have some kind of evidence

4 (17m 2s):
In this instance? There's no evidence. There's literally, and, and even if you look at adverse events that have been reported across the United States, almost all those adverse events are black market. Any adverse event regarding BPC 1 57 is literally a black market product that somebody bought from China or Canada that's filled with potential particulates or issues of, of, of contamination or lack of efficacy or too much efficacy. And so where I was going with this is if, if you, we know for sure that the peptide itself isn't dangerous. So then you go and say, okay, do you not think that FDA regulated compounding pharmacies are capable of compounding these peptides?

4 (17m 50s):
The highest paid person in my building is my quality and compliance guy. He literally worked for Abbott Laboratories for 15 years working hand in hand with the FDA to make sure they follow all of their protocols and procedures. So just so the public knows any product that comes into our pharmacy at revive our compounding pharmacy, we make sure it's an FDA approved ingredient with an independent third party verification of the ingredient itself, right? Showing that it is a hundred percent the ingredients they tell us it is. Then we compound it in an ISO five environment.

4 (18m 32s):
The law says we need to do ISO seven. We go above and beyond and use an ISO five sterile facility. We have the two highest paid employees in our building are our regulatory compliance guys that are over quality controls. Okay? So then from there, whenever we compound a product, we send every single batch off to be independently third party verified by a independent lab unaffiliated with us. And we file those records away. Everything is documented, every aspect from the chain of custody of the ingredient to the chain of custody of the drug, to the delivery, to the patient.

4 (19m 13s):
All of that is documented. So it's either one, you're saying the peptides dangerous, or two, you're saying compounding pharmacies are incapable of compounding drugs that aren't dangerous. And if that's the case, then why are you asking us to compound hundreds of drugs that are on FDA back order lists? Because your buddies at big pharma aren't gonna compound them because they don't make enough money, they don't generate enough revenue. So half the stuff that's on a crash cart used in the hospital system is made by mom and pop compounding pharmacies. It's like, so the safety is there, the efficacy is there, the sterility is there and the peptide itself is safe.

4 (19m 56s):
So I just go back to, I have to believe that you're acting upon bad information and I want to give them the benefit of the doubt. And you know, my message is we've gotta go meet with the FDA and we've gotta start having conversations and we've gotta represent small compounding pharmacies and the average American, because right now they're only hearing half the story and that half of the story is big pharma banging on the desk and saying, Hey, we want to patent these peptides. We're gonna go through clinical trials, we're gonna do it the right way, you know, and we're gonna do all these checks and balances. But it's like we don't need you involved in supplements. Like if you really look at it, it's, it's essential.

4 (20m 39s):
I mean, again, I've said it, it's a short chain amino acid. It's not a drug,

3 (20m 43s):
It's just bananas that it's that corrupt.

4 (20m 46s):
Yeah,

3 (20m 47s):
It really is.

4 (20m 48s):
It

3 (20m 49s):
Is. And you going and having a conversation with the FDA in my mind, that's not gonna fix jack shit. They're gonna listen to you and they go, okay, yeah,

4 (20m 56s):
Yeah. Well the other end is what, what's gonna happen if they really truly continue to regulate these things out of the marketplace is you're not gonna regulate it. You're just gonna shut down the people that follow the rules. You're gonna shut down the compounding pharmacies that do things right? And they, here, here's an example. Like let's talk about the peptides that didn't get banned. The GLP ones, which is what a lot of people know as Wago v Ozempic, the generic names or Tirzepatide oz Tirzepatide and semaglutide weight loss drugs, GLP one agonist. Those are not on the band list because FDA has, or big pharma has patents on those, but they can't patent the molecule, right?

4 (21m 39s):
They can only patent the dosage in the brand name. So compounding pharmacies throughout the country are compounding those products for pennies on the dollar at a different dosage. And then what happens is, and, and that's because these products are on an FDA backorder list, okay? This is the whole cycle of the lu ludicrousness of this situation there. The FDA is saying, Hey, there's not enough of this product to meet the demand of the, of the American people. And if we really look at what those drugs are, they're not a weight loss drug, they're a diabetes medication. And we know that diabetes indirectly impact or or directly impacts poverty stricken and minority communities disproportionately.

4 (22m 22s):
And so when we compound these medications to meet the needs of the people who can't get those medications or maybe can't afford those medications because they're on a FDA back order list and they're asking us to compound them, big pharma then turns around, ensues compounding pharmacies throughout the country, then uses their long reach of PR firms to put it in the news. Make it sound like you don't know what you're doing. Like these compounding pharmacies are dangerous, they're not regulated. It's the wild west out there and it compounding pharmacies. There's no oversight. These aren't FDA approved products. Bullshit.

4 (23m 2s):
Absolute bullshit. Do you know how many times the FDA's been in my pharmacy in 18 months? Twice They've, we've interacted with them four times in 18 months. Do you know that there are 2,500 manufacturing facilities owned by big pharma that have not been inspected in five or more years, five or more years. Furthermore, they've outsourced their manufacturing to third world countries in rural areas. And those products, when they come into the United States do not go under FDA inspection. There is no validity testing like we do. There's no sterility testing, there's none of that.

4 (23m 42s):
And so why are GLP ones on back order? You want to know why? Sure. Because the E Eli Lilly specifically with its product got one of their facilities shut down 'cause they failed FDA inspection with egregious actions. We saw just a few weeks ago, eye drops that are from FDA approved sources got recalled. And when a whistleblower blew the whistle, they go in and there's people in their iso sterile rooms barefoot, like the, the level of egregiousness and manipulation is insane. But when you control the media and you have the ear of the government and you can move chess pieces, it makes it hard to, you know, be able to navigate that, compete with that and educate people.

4 (24m 30s):
And so if you didn't give me a platform, nobody would know this stuff. If it wasn't for people like you and, and Robert Kennedy and people who question things and challenge the system. I can't SEO optimize. I can't Google search engine optimize. I can't get these messages out. I called a PR firm to say, Hey, how do we combat this and what can we do? And they were like, the best bet you have is long form media like podcasts. That's really the only way you're gonna get it out there. It's not gonna be something picked up by the media outlets

3 (25m 0s):
'cause they're dirty too.

4 (25m 2s):
Well a lot of their, a lot of their advertising and funding comes from big pharma. And so it makes it tough.

3 (25m 8s):
Well we found that out during the pandemic. But what's fascinating is it's had a terrible effect on their bottom line because people watch them shill for these pharmaceutical drug companies and not report adverse events and not report the dangers of shutting down schools and all the harm that it's doing to children, all the harm that it's doing to business. 'cause they didn't report on that. People lost faith in them. Yep. Like radically CNN showed recently its lowest rating since 1991.

4 (25m 41s):
Well look at what they did with you with the vaccines and Don don't know if you saw it now, two, two different articles in the last 60 se 60 days probably. One is that people who have been vaccinated multiple times over, I think the age of 60 are at an increased risk of being hospitalized with covid. I was one of the articles. Yeah. And then the other article was that two of the heads of the FDA that approved the vaccines now went to go work for Moderna in the last 40 years. Okay? The last 40 years of the FDA, two heads of the FDA have not gone to work for industry two,

3 (26m 19s):
Only two.

4 (26m 20s):
That's nuts. That's insanity. And so, and and that's the same thing that was happening at the DOJ and that's why I wanted to bring up the DOJ and as well, even though that they have nothing to do with the peptides. They are part of the, the healthcare industrial complex inadvertently because they're being used as an attack dog by the big insurance companies. And all it takes is one orthopedic surgeon getting indicted for something or one general surgeon getting indicted for something for everyone to go, fuck that, right? I'm done. I'm not doing that test right? I'm not doing a genetic test. Right? Like no way. And, and now insurance doesn't even cover any of those tests. And so they're gonna force anything out of the marketplace with time, but in the short term, they're gonna run their offense.

4 (27m 4s):
And that same level of spit that's being swapped at the FDA is being swapped at the DOJ. So the big insurance companies attempt to recruit away DOJ prosecutors. And once they've built their reputation in working as a, as a steward for the people at the Department of Justice and they put some big hides on the wall and big build a name for themselves, they'll get recruited to private industry. And one of the big options for them is to go work for the, the insurance companies, including the FBI agents. So most of the, and I and I say this 'cause I don't think the average clinician in America even understands when you have a insurance special investigative unit show up at your practice, which happens.

4 (27m 47s):
So if you run a lot of blood tests or you do a lot of genetic tests, or you do anything that the insurance company thinks, man, this guy's doing these tests, don don't want 'em doing these tests anymore. There's a chance that they send an auditor and that auditor is a special investigative unit. And that guy is typically a former FBI agent that worked for the federal government who still has all those connections at the office. And so there's just so much cross pollination. And again, it's not me saying the do j's bad or the FDA's bad. I'm saying when they're given bad information, just like AI information in information out, like

3 (28m 26s):
Why are they, why would they be upset at people running tests?

4 (28m 30s):
Well, this gets super complicated. We talked about this on the last podcast. So there's laws, rules and regs and the, the, the state and federal laws say that physicians are allowed to have an investment in an entity. So a lot of people don't know that. Like when you go to a surgery center, there's a good chance that that surgeon owns into that surgery center, okay? If, if you go to a, if you have a clinician like somebody from the mothership, they couldn't get, they could not get their GLP one semaglutide. So they reached out to me and said, Hey, can you get my dad semaglutide? And I'm like, yeah, we make it at the pharmacy the doctor wouldn't send to our pharmacy and it's most likely 'cause he had a relationship with another pharmacy, right?

4 (29m 16s):
And so that physician may have been invested in that pharmacy. And as crazy as that sounds, the law says they can, as long as you don't pay them on the value of volume of their referral, they're allowed to have a passive interest. So think of it as you're investing in a stock, right? If I work at Abbott, I mean if I, if I'm a doctor and I prescribe a drug from Pfizer, I'm still allowed to invest in Pfizer stock, right? What I'm not allowed to do, do is receive direct remuneration in accordance with the value of volume of my referral. It cannot be an arrangement where you say, I'm gonna give you a hundred dollars per patient. Right? That's, that's a kickback. That's illegal, that's a violation of federal and state law.

4 (29m 57s):
However, if there is an investment op, bonafide investment opportunity and a hundred clinicians buy into a hospital and then they operate at that hospital, the law says they're allowed to own into that hospital and own up to 40% of that hospital. And so, again, in two, I always like to give both sides of the story, and I said this on the last podcast, there are bad people doing bad things throughout every aspect of this. It's not, insurance companies are all bad and clinicians are all good, and lab owners are all good. There is egregious stuff happening at all levels. And there are indictments that the Department of Justice bring forth that are 100% justified, no arguments there.

4 (30m 43s):
But oftentimes the baby gets thrown out with the bath water and oftentimes the insurance companies are able to skew facts in a way that put innocent people in bad positions. And that's all I'm trying to say. And so it, it, it, it's so deep and go run so deep. It, it take us seven podcasts to cover all this stuff. But I mean, it's, it's real. It's it's not foo stuff. It's real, it's happening every day. And

3 (31m 13s):
Most people have zero idea this is happening. And most people just look at the recommendations, whatever it is, whether it's been discussed in the media, whether their doctor tells 'em, and they don't have any idea what the influence behind that is. Correct?

4 (31m 25s):
Correct. It's tough I mean it's tough, it's nuts. But the side effect profile's safe on the peptides. Like there's the efficacy, like time and time again, I cannot tell you how many people, how many patients and clinicians who buy BPC for their patients throughout the United States have had phenomenal results with the healing factors. and I attach some links on the waste Towell website about BPC and studies done with healing spine injuries, with healing joint injuries. And, and there's even a study on safety, and it wasn't in humans, but the safety study was in mammals, dogs and mice. And yeah, there's, it literally talks about how there was zero side effects seen re regardless of dosage.

3 (32m 13s):
So this, this study is gastric pep, that's

4 (32m 17s):
Just BPC, that's the Yes. Yeah, the full name of P

3 (32m 19s):
Pc, how do you say it? Penta

4 (32m 22s):
Pentapeptide

3 (32m 23s):
Pentapeptide body protection compound B, PC 1 5 7. and it's role in accelerating muscu musculoskeletal soft tissue healing. Yeah, it works, man. It really does

4 (32m 34s):
Work. It's insane how well it works. Yeah, it works. And so what's sad is, and here and then, so as we talk about, there's just so much to cover. Sorry I did this last time too. No, no, don't apologize, but apologize as look at it.

3 (32m 45s):
Go wild.

4 (32m 47s):
A as we look at it and we say, okay, what's gonna happen? So one of two things. Either the FDA will hopefully meet with compounding pharmacies and have the discussion and we can dive a little deeper and hopefully bring them to the light and bring awareness to this or they ban these things. And what's gonna happen is exactly what happened with the opioid pandemic or epidemic. People are going to turn to black market, right? We had more opioid related, opioid related deaths last year than ever in the history of the United States. More people have now died of opioids than the Vietnam War. It is killing young Americans left and right. It's because you allowed Purdue Pharma to push a product into the market that never had safety trials, right?

4 (33m 33s):
As far as addiction goes, they piggybacked onto a previous indication of their cotton system. Get it into the marketplace. All these people get addicted. Boom, let's overregulate, let's make it really hard to get opioids. Now everyone turns to black market. And that's exactly what's gonna happen with peptides. People are already buying it off the internet. They're buying it from China, they're buying it from black market sources. They're buying it from non-human use sources. And that means that there is no oversight. They do not go through all the protocols and procedures that we go through at our pharmacy. Like all of the safety nets, all of the checks and balances, all the things that I just went through about how we do it are gone.

4 (34m 14s):
And so now, yeah, you do risk adverse events. You do risk issues because who knows what contaminants in that,

3 (34m 21s):
Right? Especially if you're getting it from some country and they're cutting corners and they're just selling you whatever they can.

4 (34m 27s):
And so the fallacy though, the biggest fallacy is that if it comes from a big pharmaceutical company and it's in the American market, that it's safe because time and time again, they've misrepresented the safety, they've misrepresented the efficacy, right? And then you go beyond that. They've also misrepresented their compliance and regulatory and their quality controls, right? That I was, where I was going earlier is they've outsourced 30% of their manufacturing to th to outside of the United States, to third world countries where it's cheaper to manufacture. In fact, a lot of them are manufacturing in rural areas of India where sometimes there's no running water at the hotels.

4 (35m 11s):
There's no, so if I'm an FDA inspector and I can choose to go down the street and inspect a compounding pharmacy in Austin, Texas, or I've gotta get on a plane and fly to a rural part of India and now I have to give you three months heads up before I come, right? When the FDA shows up at my building, they show up and they say, we're coming in and you're gonna let us look at everything you're doing and we're gonna follow your employees around for the next three weeks. And we're gonna see if anything they've done is incorrect. That's the level of scrutiny we face. The level of scrutiny, big pharma faces is we moved our facilities overseas. You gotta give us a three months notice to go into those facilities.

4 (35m 51s):
And then when you get into those facilities, yeah, there's a book called Bottle of Lies. It's an investigative journalist, I mean, and it's, it'll blow your mind. Like when the FDA showed up, they were burning records. That's what three months notice. They were burning records. They made up their efficacy data. The data was all falsified over and over and over again. These things have happened. And don don't remember the author's name, but the book is called Bottle of Lies. And she dives deep into that. She was an investigative journalist.

3 (36m 22s):
Jesus Christ. So when they're putting these things on the dangerous list, things like BPC 1 57 is the idea that they're gonna come up with their own version of BBCN 1 57 or something similar to it and patent it because they know the demand is there.

4 (36m 42s):
That is my assumption is that that's what big pharma is attempting to do because don don't understand otherwise why the FDA all of the sudden would've made this choice. It blindsided everyone. Compounding pharmacies, clinicians, nobody saw this coming. 'cause there weren't a bunch of adverse events. Literally the only adverse events I've seen with anything on that band list, and we've treated, I don't even know how many because ways to Well has 30,000 patients in our patient population. My pharmacy, the last I saw was over 500,000 people have filled prescriptions. We're nationwide. We're working with some of the biggest telemedicine companies in in the country, clinicians throughout the country.

4 (37m 22s):
We're, we're one of the bigger pharmacies providing these solutions for these practices. And the only adverse events we've seen is like an injection site inflammation response, an inflammatory response at the injection site. Sometimes it'll itch. The worst is somebody's gotten cold sweats for a few minutes. And that's rare. Those are rare, rare reporting like most, this is again, because you look at it, it occurs naturally in nature. It's a peptide, it's an amino acid, it is a building block of life that your body becomes deficient in as you age. Right? Our body becomes less and less efficient. And so these peptides are a way to supplement. My buddy Ryan Humiston did a video on it.

4 (38m 3s):
He's like a big YouTuber and it, he called it Flintstone vitamins for grownups. And it's like, it is, this is the reason, like the reason that supplements aren't regulated by the FDA is 'cause Ronald Reagan said, I don't want the FDA telling me what vitamins I can and can't take. Right? But because this is an injectable and it's sterile for the most part, and they're pill forms too. But the FDA says, well, if it's an injectable, it's sterile and it's made at a compounding pharmacy, then we have oversight. But I wanna be clear, they didn't ban it. They just put it on a dangerous list. And this is one of the things that makes it difficult to navigate as an entrepreneur is you go, well, what are we supposed to do with that?

4 (38m 44s):
Does that mean we're not allowed to make it? Does that mean we are allowed to make it? You're saying it's dangerous, but we're not having side effects and we're having great efficacious results. It just makes it tough,

3 (38m 54s):
Insane that they can put something on a dangerous list with no evidence.

4 (38m 59s):
Yeah. I know.

3 (39m 1s):
That's wild. I know I mean, it just, it just seems like clear cut corruption. Yeah. And because the power of the insurance companies and the power of the pharmaceutical drug companies.

4 (39m 10s):
Well, and then where I get frustrated is I've been to Oz Joe, I've been behind the fucking curtain I know I was a device rep, I was a drug rep. I stood in surgeries from dust till dawn watching products that have never had human safety trials go into the body time and time again. When people think that going into an orthopedic surgery or going into a general surgery or going into an OBGYN surgery, you make the assumption that all these products have been through human safety studies and all this stuff. and I talked about this on our last podcast too, but over 90% of the products that are in the operating room never went through human safety studies.

4 (39m 51s):
The FDA created what's called the five 10 K approval process in the seventies. They said, it's growing too fast. We're bogged down, we can't get to all this shit. Now you're bolting on all these extra products in addition to drugs, and now we're talking biologics and let's not even get into AI in large language models. You know, to their credit, they're doing their best to navigate a really tough space with a lot of different stuff coming at 'em. And so they created a loophole, and the premise was less than 10% of the products would come through this channel to get into the operating room, jump forward to today. And 92% of the products in the operating room came in through the five 10 K approval process.

4 (40m 34s):
And what is that process? What it says is, if you can show something and like kind is already in the operating room, then you can do what's called a daisy chain. So imagine iPhone one versus the new iPhone, right? That's what we're talking about here. Imagine Henry Ford's car versus Elon Musk's cyber truck. That's the difference. And it's moving at a breakneck speed. And it's shocking that there's not more adverse events. But we also know that less than 2% of adverse events get reported. And so I can give you a real world example on that too.

4 (41m 15s):
When I was a rep, there were shavers that kept continually changing, right? And it's, it's a, it's a, a blade that goes in this shoulder and they'd clean up your shoulder and cut out tissue. That tissue has to get sucked through a cannulated component of the shaver handpiece and pumped into a vacuum and disposed of and discarded of the bad tissue that you, the tissue that you wanted to extrapolate. As the technology changed and the shaver hand pieces got smaller and smaller, a lot of these companies didn't update their packaging inserts. And so they didn't update their sterile processing procedures. And so what happened is tissue began to gunk up in hand pieces.

4 (41m 57s):
And this was not unique to one company. I'm not gonna say the company's names, and I'm not gonna name the hospitals, but there's, there's a company that took the fall for it. But in reality, I was the rep and I, I, I went in and helped that hospital figure out what was going on. and I took a camera and I scoped every cannulated piece of equipment that I could find. All of it had tissue in it gunked up tissue from previous surgeries in that. And so when you take this product from one surgery to the next surgery to the next surgery, we know that certain bacterias are extremophiles they can handle. So they auto quave it. And all that is, is to, to purify it.

4 (42m 37s):
It's called clean dirt, right? The, the debate at the time was, is there a such thing as clean dirt? If we run it through a sterile processing machine and we cook it at thousands and thousands of degrees, nothing can survive that, right? No bacteria is an extremophile. It can fucking make it from outer space on a meteorite and crash onto earth. You know? Yeah. Like these are some of the most resilient life forms in the history of existence. Well,

3 (43m 3s):
Prions the things that cause mad cow disease, you could cook them at thousands degrees and they stay alive.

4 (43m 9s):
Well, and this is where it gets even scarier. So whether we're talking about, like with stem cells, one of the big things that's happened is when they, when they throw out adverse events, even with the stem cells or biologics products, almost all of those adverse events have nothing to do with the product and everything to do with the chain of command. So look at how rigorous the chain of command is on me as a compounding pharmacy. I told you step by step by step, check balance, check balance, check balance, none of that exists in, in big medical. None of it. I was a device rep with shavers pumps, equipment implants in my trunk of my car in 110 degree weather.

4 (43m 55s):
I, it wasn't just me. Every rep carries product called trunk stock. Drug reps carry product called trunk stock. They put drugs in the trunk of their car and drive around and give them to clinicians to use for samples. But those products aren't being climate controlled in the way they're supposed to be. There's no chain of command, there's no chain of custody. They're, they're not following any of those protocols. And even the storage facilities that almost all of these implant companies are using and device companies, they're not paying for climate controlled storage. Typically, they're sticking 'em in a storage shed. And then a month later that product's going into surgery. And so I'll give you another crazy, and I'm, I'm saying all this not to bash one company or bash anybody in particular.

4 (44m 39s):
It's just the truth, Joe. It's the fucking truth. And when the FDA says, we're worried about safety on a peptide, that's a naturally occurring amino acid, I call bullshit because I go, then where were you when all this other stuff was happening? I was in a surgery at the Houston Zoo where I watched a shaver hand piece being used on a tiger, and it had green tape wrapped around it, okay? and I thought, oh, that's interesting. It had green tape jump forward. Two months later, I'm in a human surgery and I see a shaver handpiece with green tape and I thought, man, that's wild. It can't be. So I checked the serial number, same damn serial number that was in that tiger surgery.

3 (45m 21s):
What?

4 (45m 21s):
Same serial number at the time. What was happening is if a loaner went out, it would go out to a animal surgery veterinary clinic. There's no way to differentiate, right? So a, a account number's an account number, right? And so they ship out a loaner and they would use that and then they'd ship it back. But okay, but they're gonna process it, clean it, sterilize it. You never should be doing that in the first place. But I've already told you now how the packaging inserts don't explain properly how to clean out these instruments. And it's not one company, it's not one product. It's thousands of products.

3 (45m 56s):
And so, so a human patient could be potentially contaminated with bacteria from a tiger. A hundred

4 (46m 2s):
Percent, a hundred percent. You, you never, you never like, and so I, I say, I just say this because when they're throwing stones or people are like, peptides are dangerous or stem cells are danger, it's like, this is nature and the rules and the regs and the restrictions and the safety nets and the protocols and the chain of custody and the hoops that we jump through. Like let's go to the cellular options. Whether we get a, a biologic, whether cellular or acellular, okay? When it ships out, they say what time it shipped? It ships on dry ice stored at frigid temperatures. We, when it arrives, we have to sign for it.

4 (46m 42s):
And then we immediately unbox it and load it into a cryo freezer and document each lot number what time we put it in the freezer. And within 30 days, if we don't use that product, we discard it, even though there's no nothing that says it's not viable or it's not gonna be as good. That's the protocol. Because we're gonna go above and beyond and follow the most rigid safety protocols. And that does not happen in traditional medicine. The average American is assuming that if they go into surgery that's safe. But these stem cells, man, ooh, who knows about that? That could be dangerous. And the truth is, everything's risk reward. It's all risk reward.

3 (47m 23s):
Jesus Christ. It's just so gunked up. It's just so corrupt that it feels helpless when you're discussing this. Because like, there's this feeling that the more you dive into this and the more you describe things and the deeper you expose the corruption, the more it's so confusing because it doesn't seem like there's a way out. Well,

4 (47m 45s):
And you asked me last time, you were trying to ask me to articulate how I started wa well, how I started revive. And we spent three fucking hours going through all this. Yeah. The truth of the matter is I saw a problem. I tried to come up with a solution, and that's all I've been doing over and over again. Problem. There's an opioid epidemic. It killed my brother solution. Non-addictive, non-abusive treatment modalities to heal and help with pain that, so I start a pharmacy, insurance says, nah, we're not gonna cover it, right? We'll just put 'em on an opioid. Okay, problem. Now I have to figure out how to make these products cost-effective enough to be able to sell them to the average American, the average Joe, you know, not the affluent.

4 (48m 31s):
It's everybody needs to be able to afford these treatments. So I built a 5 0 3 a sterile pharmacy and we began to make products that were in the gaps. Anything I saw that insurance didn't cover, wouldn't cover was egregiously price gouging patients on is what we would make at our compounding pharmacy. And so then we start ways to, well, can

3 (48m 53s):
You gimme examples of those products? Like what, what

4 (48m 56s):
Products were those? Yeah, so I mean any, well, peptides fall into that chain. You know, big pharmas wasn't making peptides, but now that the market took off on peptides, big pharma is trying to cannibalize peptides and get into that space more and more. Like I said, Merck's looking at over 200 peptides right now, testosterone therapy, right? When a lot of times when people say, Hey, you know, if it worked, everyone would use it in traditional medicine. Now it, it took 75 years of dogma and confusion for testosterone to pull itself out of the doldrums of the dungeons to be utilized daily as a go-to resource for aging men. And the only reason testosterone made it out was because one guy had the balls to test it, no pun intended, but it was Dr. Morgan Tyler, a urologist, famous urologist said he there, this was prior to Viagra, he said, I've gotta do something for these guys who have erectile dysfunction.

4 (49m 51s):
I don't have an option. And he began using testosterone and then his colleague said, well, hold on a second, that's gonna cause prostate cancer. And then he began to analyze his patient population and see that it wasn't increasing prostate cancer in his PA patient population. So then he went back and did a retrospective study all the way back to the 1930s where we found out that the original study that created that dog bud, that maintained its status for over 75 fucking years was total bullshit. It was a patient population of three, two guys dropped out of the study. One guy had levels that went up and down on his prostate levels and it was it, it was all debunked. And now it's proven time and time again.

4 (50m 31s):
If testosterone was increasing prostate cancer, we would've seen a huge spike in prostate cancer. What we're seeing is about 14% of men develop prostate cancer. And so as we walk through, what

3 (50m 41s):
Do you think the reason for that is?

4 (50m 44s):
For what?

3 (50m 44s):
Why do 14% of men develop prostate

4 (50m 47s):
Cancer? Well, 14% of men in general patient population develop prostate cancer. General. General, yeah. Thank you for clarifying that. Right? Yeah. Not so

3 (50m 54s):
Not population.

4 (50m 55s):
Correct. And so the thought was if we increase certain levels that we would increase the risk of prostate cancer. And so the challenge becomes, if you really go back and you look at the study, the guy who stayed in the study was chemically castrated. He had a testosterone level of 50 nanograms per deciliter, which is considered chemically castrated. So non-existent. What Morgan Tyler discovered was, when we take you from 50 chemically castrated to low two 50, we increase your risk of prostate cancer because your prostate cancer risk at zero testosterone is basically zero, right?

4 (51m 35s):
But once we push past two 50, the low number, we now reduce your risk of prostate cancer. In fact, we insulate you from various forms of cancer beyond prostate cancer. So there's a therapeutic benefit if we get you into optimal ranges. And it's called the saturation model. So think of it like this. You can only water a plant so much, right? Once that plant has water, it's not gonna absorb any more water. The prostate can only, the testosterone can only bind to a certain amount of receptors. Once those receptors are bind, then there's no continual upside risk. And then you get to get the benefits of testosterone that begin to reduce those risks of cancer.

4 (52m 16s):
But today, in primary care, you will still have doctors who quote a study that's been debunked a hundred times and that there's this dogma that exists over and over again in healthcare where it's like the data's there, the research is there, the info's there, but the system itself isn't allowing for it. And so when we look at that, I talked about this on the last, when we talk about insurance companies and pharmacy benefit managers, every drug on the market that is covered by insurance is controlled by a pharmacy benefit manager. And those pharmacy benefit managers prioritize drugs and their classifications not based off efficacy based off profits, right?

4 (53m 5s):
And so they are monetizing those drugs through rebates with the big insurance companies. So insulin's a prime example, it their, in current senate house committee did a study on insulin where they found like the price of insulin was $284 a vial. Do you know how much made it back to the company that, to the pharmaceutical company that was making that insulin less than $40? Where the hell did all that extra money go? It went to the pharmacy benefit managers and the insurance companies through rebates. And so this is the whole other area of healthcare that people aren't understanding.

4 (53m 45s):
and I tried to explain it on, on the last podcast, I know, we dove deep into it. but it is a crucial component for people to get their head around what's happening. So insurance companies, so many people say, well, I have health insurance, right? That drug isn't covered by my health insurance, so it must be bullshit. Or, that test isn't covered by my health insurance. So it must be bullshit. No, you don't have health insurance. What you have is managed care plan. They've renamed these plans. It isn't health insurance. It's a managed care plan. And what do I mean by that? They're managing your medications, your treatment options, and they're monetizing your disease state.

4 (54m 28s):
They make money on every step of the way. And in since the last time we spoke a new, A new one came out Ohio, the state of Ohio, they realized that over 200 pharmacies had gone out of business. The pharmacies were saying we're getting paid less and less, but yet the government was paying more and more. Why? How, where was that money coming from? Where was it going when they, they used, I think, I can't remember, 30 something auditors at the state level. And what they found was $240 million in pharmacy benefit manager fraud, $240 million in money that they extrapolated from the American people, from the people of the state of Ohio.

4 (55m 15s):
'cause taxpayer dollars are, who's paying for this stuff? And these pharmacy benefit managers are making their money on the spread. So there's layer upon layer upon layer of how insurance companies can move dollars to maximize profits.

3 (55m 29s):
Jesus Christ

4 (55m 30s):
Does that, does that make sense at all?

3 (55m 32s):
It makes sense, but it just like the more you talk, the more disheartening it is.

4 (55m 35s):
Well, well I mean there's two different views on it, right? There's optimists are usually successful and pessimists are usually right. I am very optimistic about the future of medicine. I'm very optimistic through large language models, cash pay model. I didn't want to get into that without first setting the tone for the listeners on how we're here. Why did we go to cash pay? Why is ways Towell not in the insurance model? Why is revive not in the insurance model? Because the insurance model no longer exists. That model is meant to monetize your disease, right? So Gary talked about this. You come in, let's say I come in and I'm gonna give you a perfect example.

4 (56m 18s):
I'm a mom. I'm stressed, I have anxiety. I'm not sleeping at night. I go to my primary care. That primary care has six minutes with me. It's not their fault. They're doing their best to navigate a shit system. They write me an Ambien and an antidepressant or an anti-anxiety and they push me out the door and that's their go-to treatment because that's the tool in their tool belt. The difference is if somebody were to come in the door of ways to, well, or any of these cash pay clinics, I don't even wanna make it about waste. Well, there are hundreds of phenomenal clinics across the country. Peter Atia is a prime example. He's gonna take the time to ask the question, to do the deep dive, to peel back the layers to the onion.

4 (57m 1s):
Rather than treating the symptom, you're gonna uncover the root cause. And so what did you do to assess that individual? Right? If it was us, we would do a comprehensive blood panel. We would identify, is there a hormonal imbalance or any sort of imbalance in their biomarkers? Not gonna happen in the insurance model because of what I was telling you. The doctors are scared. They're scared of getting kicked off the insurance. They're scared of ending up on a DOJ desk because they're being, the data's being skewed, the info's being skewed, all of it. It's one half of the narrative. So that's one reason they won't do it. So that's the biomarker test. Okay, let's look at the other thing we would do. We would run an EEG to assess your, for if you're, if you have insomnia, anxiety, depression, all of these things.

4 (57m 47s):
Another way to dig into the root cause separate from biomarkers, is an EEG to run a brainwave test that tells us is your brain neurons firing at the posterior of your brain to the prefrontal cortex of your brain. And if you're losing data from the posterior to the prefrontal cortex, what you find is people with depression, with anxiety, with all these things, they're losing 40 to 50% of that neuro neuropathic firing from the rear of their brain to the front of their brain. And this is a simple $200 test. Okay? Then you go to what Gary brought up. You can do a methylfolate detoxification test. M-T-F-H-R, the motherfucker test is what they call it.

4 (58m 28s):
And it's a gene carrier test. 40% of people in America suffer from that gene, right? There's four other genes that are part of that test that we do. Any one of those genes can change the way your body processes and detoxifies. They're never gonna do that. That isn't covered by insurance. You could do a pharmacogenetic test to see if that, if that individual is even capable of metabolizing the treatment that you're writing them. Do they have a cytochrome P four 50 variance? Will this even work? How are they processing their food? We can do a gut biome test. We can identify, do you have a food allergy? Is your gut biome in good working order not covered by insurance? Do you get where I'm going?

4 (59m 8s):
Yeah, there's seven or eight things we should be doing before we ever write you a fucking drug. For sure. Seven or eight easy things. And you're not talking about a million dollars. Like I bet all of those tests combined come out to less than a thousand bucks. And, and I know that's a lot. But you know, how much do you spend on your car payment? How much do you spend on your house? You're spending a portion of your life in that you're spending 100% of this existence in this flesh vessel and you only get one of them. What are you gonna do with it? Are you gonna put your hands, your, your life in the hands of these fucking assholes that are here to extrapolate money from you and manage you into chronic disease?

4 (59m 50s):
And I'm not saying the doctors are, the doctors are just using the tools that are in their tool belt. They're using the data and the tools that are in their tool belt, and that's all they know how to do. And they don't have the time. And they're stressed and they're overworked and they're tired and they're just trying to make it. And they're beat down. These people are beat down.

3 (1h 0m 11s):
And how many of these doctors even know about these tests?

4 (1h 0m 14s):
A lot of them don't. Because again, a lot of it's not covered by insurance. And so if it's not in their wheelhouse. And so when you went back to wait, doctors have investments. When I owned a blood lab, one of the things I learned is that clinician's so busy, if there's not a carrot at the end of the stick, to have the conversation to do the deep dive, to explain to them the methodology and the clinical protocols and the why they're not gonna mess with it because they're just, again, trying to make it through the day. And so those were pathways to be able to educate a clinician and give them some insight into why they should be doing these tests clinically. But yeah, even, even today, like with, if you talk about cellular therapies, if you talk about peptides, most primary care clinicians in this country have no idea about peptides.

4 (1h 1m 3s):
Or they'll say it's bullshit or they say they don't work. And they'll say the same thing with cellular therapy. You can't get stem cells in the United States. You can't get that. You know it. It's just this dogma that has created a misconception. Infrared, that's another example. You and I were talking about infrared beds and red light therapy. It is viewed by a lot of the doctors in this healthcare system. and I say healthcare loosely it's sick care as pseudoscience bullshit chiropractic stuff. But if you look infrared and these technologies, photo light therapy has been used since 19 0 3, 19 0 5.

4 (1h 1m 47s):
The guy won a Nobel Prize. Huberman does a two hour breakdown on this stuff. It infrared is not bullshit. There are over 60 studies that show infrared works. There was a study done in Europe that showed infrared improved vision in people over the age of 40, like using three minutes of infrared, three days a week, returned vision and eyesight. There's nothing that has done that. And so infrared has done that and has helped people with degenerative eye disease. Like as your eyes begin to degenerate and how does it do it? We even know the science behind it it like it literally, when you're taking NAD drips and you're doing all this stuff, you're doing it to try and get your cells to produce more a TP.

4 (1h 2m 30s):
'cause as we age, our production of a TP decline and a TP is the energy source of a cell. And our eyes have a limited amount of a TP, but they require a massive amount of energy. And so as we age and our a TP de declines, our cells are in incapable of having the amount of energy required to maintain great eyesight. And so through infrared, through NAD treatments, through NNMN, through all of these various modalities that are not being utilized in traditional medicine, you can make a difference. Aren,

3 (1h 3m 5s):
Aren't they trying to ban NMN as well? Yeah.

4 (1h 3m 7s):
Yeah. It's just crazy.

3 (1h 3m 9s):
Again, same thing. Yeah. Where's the, where's the negative side effects? Where?

4 (1h 3m 12s):
And, and all NN is is a precursor to NAD. Right? And, and even NAD, when I sent you that study a year ago, Mike, my main's changed. I'm constantly evolving. I'm constantly learning, right? I, I've listened to some people in academia that told me they thought NAD was bullshit. and I, I can tell you, I have a friend who is diagnosed with ms, who's one of my best friends in the world, and he is on a treatment that costs $14,000 a month from the insurance companies and wasn't getting good results. And we started doing weekly in AD and BPC 1 57. And he swears, and again, this is anecdotal. I'm not saying that this is gonna cure ms.

4 (1h 3m 53s):
That's not at all. He has gotten better results and has felt better over the last eight months than he ever felt on that $14,000 a month medication.

3 (1h 4m 3s):
Wow.

4 (1h 4m 4s):
So it's, it, it it for them to understand it, we've got, we would have, and that's why it's like, so to move to be able to use these treatment modalities, you almost have to go cash pay. And then what, what I'm trying to figure out is how do we bring this to the masses? How do we bring longevity based, predictive, proactive, personalized medicine to the masses? How do we bring this precision approach to everybody? And that's where I think large language models are gonna change the game. They're gonna change the world. I sent you Alan the other day. Yeah. The little alien. That's just, I

3 (1h 4m 37s):
Don't like his voice. Yeah.

4 (1h 4m 39s):
Well, he's a, he's a beta, so we're working on getting him all worked out.

3 (1h 4m 42s):
He looks like a beta. Yeah.

4 (1h 4m 44s):
So, but that's, that's, see, that feedback's amazing because when I talk about personalized,

3 (1h 4m 49s):
I'm just kidding. It's not real feedback. But,

4 (1h 4m 50s):
But I don't really have problem with, but for me, this is my thought on it. Yeah. Part of being personalized goes above and beyond personalizing treatments with peptides and all these different things to personalizing the patient experience. Some people want to call their clinician at 2:00 AM I can't tell you how many days I wake up and somebody who went through the program messages me asking a clinical question and I've gotta bug the clinician. And I've got 30 of those. Right? Or the clinician gets an inbox filled with questions. The future of medicine is large language models will manage all of that. Mm. That large LA that Allen will be able to assess your medical record. He'll be able to read your MRI, he'll be able to read your dexa. He'll be able to read your VO two max. He'll be able to assess your all cause mortality risk.

4 (1h 5m 31s):
He'll be able to tie into your wearables, tie into your rim sleep monitor your heart rate variability. That's proactive predictive medicine. We're gonna know what date you started testosterone, what date you started a peptide, what date we began to see improvement on all of your biomarkers. Or if we don't see improvement, we're gonna know in advance that this isn't a good medicine for you. This isn't a good treatment for you. And so traditional medicine is not going to do these things. It's never gonna happen. Can

3 (1h 5m 59s):
You explain, when you're saying large language models, you're talking about artificial intelligence?

4 (1h 6m 2s):
Yeah. Well, so the, the really smart guys, like Lex would say, well, large language models are just assessing massive amounts of data and guessing the next word, right? And so chat, GP t's a large language model. They don't consider it ai, but it,

3 (1h 6m 19s):
But isn't the speculation that one of the reasons why they think Sam Altman was pushed out is that chat GPT has acquired artificial general intelligence in the newest models.

4 (1h 6m 31s):
That is, that is what I've heard from my AI guys as well. So I don't, I heard told from, I was told, told that he has a fiduciary duty to the board to disclose if the chat GPT makes a leap, is what they call it. And it made a leap. And then I guess they continued forward without reporting it to the board. But again, this is all hearsay. don don't know. I don't have any line of sight into that, but my, my buddies and I have told me that don

3 (1h 6m 56s):
Don't either. I'm repeatedly hearing this. Yeah,

4 (1h 6m 58s):
That was the same thing I heard, which is very scary. Which is interesting. 'cause I will say this, the scary side is like, when you start messing with these large language models, they're behaviors that they do that aren't programmed behaviors. Right? and I, I'm not, I'm, you know, I'm a I've got a small monkey brain. I can't tell you. Like, it's a little, it's a little odd to me, a little intimidating. You're like, man, that's wild. An example is like, with Alan, even when I was pressing him and asking different questions and cutting him off, he hesitated. I was like, and held his hand up. And I'm like, that's weird. And the AI guys were saying, this is an example of like things that the large language model is kind of like improving on its own. That wouldn't be like a programmed behavior.

4 (1h 7m 39s):
So I mean the, the future is, is scary and exciting. Right? and I, look at that. So your

3 (1h 7m 44s):
Little AI gives you the, a finger to

4 (1h 7m 46s):
Hold on, like, hold on a second. 'cause I kept asking him the que changing the questions on him and asking him to reword stuff.

3 (1h 7m 52s):
And he's not programmed to do that.

4 (1h 7m 54s):
No. No. And so there's interesting stuff like that. And like, I don't know enough about it. 'cause I'm not a tech guy. I'm a I'm, I've come from healthcare. I'm, but I, what I see is like everything Alan and these AI models are a tool in the tool belt. And any tool can be used for good or for bad. And so my vision for the future of AI in large language models is using that to scale and bring predictive medicine to the masses. When I came on your podcast last time, we had thousands upon thousands of people register. And my model, a clinician spends 45 minutes with you reviewing your lab results, deep diving into every aspect of you at the biological level, deep diving into your gut biome, whatever test it is we do, we're gonna spend the time and we wanna educate and empower patients and give them sovereignty over their health.

4 (1h 8m 50s):
Because they're used to a system where they go in, they're given a drug, and they're pushed out and they leave going, why? don don't know. I don't really understand. Why am I taking this? What's wrong with me? Right? I don't want that for them. I want patients to be educated and informed and make autonomous decisions that they drive, right? And so the, the goal is to use large language models to give them a resource. Imagine if I can take the best and brightest minds in medicine and put 'em in your fucking pocket 24 7. Imagine if you had Huberman and Atia in your pocket and it's 2:00 AM and you got a question about NAD. You just ask, ask Alan, ask the large language, gonna know all that and he's gonna be able to tie it to your medical records and he's gonna be able to tie it to the pharmacy and know what date your prescription shipped.

4 (1h 9m 37s):
And the only reason I'll be able to do that, and when we go back to data in, data out, right? And, and our LLM model, it will be a closed infrastructure. I'm not gonna give him access to, or the AI access to the internet, right? The plan is we're gonna peer review, we're gonna look over anything that's loaded into that algorithm, and we're going allow him to practice in the way that a ways Towell clinician would practice and answer questions. He won't be there to provide medical care. He'll be there to be a medical resource. And everything he does, or the AI does, will be monitored and approved by clinicians. And, but what it does is it allows me to drive down the cost of healthcare, right?

4 (1h 10m 17s):
Because today, how do I scale? Okay? I can tell you how a lot of my competitors scale. They hire a doctor by the hour, they outsource the clinician, and that's their way that they got into 50 states overnight. So, so many people are like, why aren't you in 50 states? When are you gonna be in all the states? I don't think that's healthcare. I think you're going back to sick care. don don't want an OB GY who was pulling babies on a Tuesday, doing a testosterone call on a Thursday with a disease state and a skillset and a knowledge base that she or he doesn't have the knowledge to. Do. You know what I'm, you understand, I'm not saying that they're not a valid clinician at what they do, but you know, it's, it's like asking a juujitsu guy teach you Muay Thai, right?

4 (1h 11m 3s):
don don't, I I, I would rather put my faith in large language models that know juujitsu, that know Muay Thai, that no MMA, that no boxing, that know all of the history of those things and those modalities that know every single product that we offer at ways to, well, that immediately can recall your previous conversation, what happened. These large language models. So in the demos, he'll literally chart everything that we discuss and put it in writing and load it into an EMR. You gotta understand, like when we, when my clinicians do a, a, a 45 minute call, they've gotta spend 15 minutes reviewing everything, refreshing their memory, trying to go back over everything you talked about, what were your issues?

4 (1h 11m 45s):
Now they do the call for 45. Now they've gotta annotate all that on the back end. AI and large language models will do that in real time instantaneously. I can only see six patients per day per clinician in my model because I'm trying to provide them with great care. I'm trying to bring the Peter Atia, the, the, the high level care approach, but make it affordable for the average person. Mm. And so it's been this dance of like, how do we do that? And large language models in AI fix all these problems and we are on the cusp. It is right there. It is so close. I wanted to show it today, but we're not there yet.

4 (1h 12m 25s):
and I need to get kinks worked out. But I'm excited for what we're gonna be able to do in the future.

3 (1h 12m 31s):
Now, when you say large language models, what is, what's the engine driving these large language models? Like what program are you guys running?

4 (1h 12m 41s):
So with, with these avatars that we're gonna use is it's gonna be, well, today it can be backed by any large language model. So I, that's just the technology. So think of it as the arrow, but the archer is the clinicians and the data and the input and the information. That's where the magic happens. I think there's gonna be hundreds if not thousands of avatars in the marketplace within 12 months. But

3 (1h 13m 8s):
When you say large language models, are you using

4 (1h 13m 10s):
Chat g? Yeah, you can use chat. We use chat. GPT. There's four other ones that have language capabilities. Doesn't

3 (1h 13m 17s):
Elon have one now too?

4 (1h 13m 18s):
Yeah, Elon has one. And it's a race and there's a healthcare one, I can't remember the healthcare one that has access to all these medical records and data. The newest chat. GPT outperformed clinicians at reading MRIs. The PT four.

3 (1h 13m 31s):
The problem that some people are having with these AI models is that they have biased information. Correct. You know, like if you ask them questions about certain things, they will not answer you or they will not, you know, mock Joe bidet or they will not praise Donald Trump. Like those kind of things where you're getting political or ideological influence. How do you keep that from happening?

4 (1h 13m 57s):
I think you, so the, the article that I alluded to earlier, alluded, alluded Google has no moat. This, this article was basically saying it doesn't matter what large language model you have because it's only gonna act in accordance with the data. And if every la large language model has the same accessibility to the same data, then how are you gonna differentiate your large language model, right? And if everyone puts the same restrictions and requirements on these large language models, how will it differentiate? Where I'm going with this is ours would be a closed infrastructure. It wouldn't reach out to the internet to get an answer. Any data that we put into our large language model will be approved and peer reviewed by our team of clinicians.

4 (1h 14m 41s):
So today I have brilliant people on my team. I have Dr. Grant, a board certified urologist. I have Dustin Lovelin, an orthopedic surgeon trained under Jimmy Andrews, the one of the godfathers of orthopedic surgery. I have Ian White, a PhD from the an Stem Cell Institute, 22 years at the bench, right? And I'm reaching out to thought leaders in their field and in academia throughout the country and saying, Hey, do you wanna help me do something cool? Do you want to come change the game? We're here, let's do it. Let's, let's get proactive and predictive and let's help people drive their health journey. Let's give them this resource. And so my, this, this tool wouldn't be to talk about politics or to crack jokes with your friend.

4 (1h 15m 26s):
Our tool would be used to assess large amounts of data, which is what this thing is phenomenal at. It's going to, like I said before, tie into your electronic medical records, review your last consult, be able to read your blood report, because it's all analytics driven. Everything is algorithm driven. And so almost all the reports and all of the decision trees that primary care clinicians and even a ways to, well clinician makes are essentially algorithms. And the more data we can give the large language model, the better decisions it can make. And so I'm envisioning there's a day where large language models potentially, you know, take over a lot of the heavy lifting that primary cares and internal medicine doctors do today.

3 (1h 16m 16s):
Wow.

4 (1h 16m 18s):
But think about this, it's

3 (1h 16m 19s):
Very promising that, that gives me hope.

4 (1h 16m 22s):
Well, that's where I think there's an optimistic

3 (1h 16m 23s):
Side to, as the FDA doesn't lock you up. Well,

4 (1h 16m 26s):
It's true, but

3 (1h 16m 28s):
Are you worried about that?

4 (1h 16m 29s):
About the FDA

3 (1h 16m 30s):
About someone?

4 (1h 16m 31s):
Yeah. No, I am, I'm, I've, I was very nervous on the last call and I don't wanna pick a fight with the federal government. That's just not a fight, you know, that I'm willing to take on. And that's partially why I got out of the insurance model. I, I literally, I described it this way, Joe, it was one of the worst years of my life, man. I lost my brother. I, I built this company. I had 156 employees. We were days away from selling this thing, the previous company for over $30 million. and I was the sole owner. And literally days before insurance, cut all of it out from under us, quit reimbursing everything, got rid of all the genetics, testing all of the, any, any compounded medication, any of it gone overnight.

4 (1h 17m 14s):
I had to look 150 fucking people in the eye and say, I came up short right at Christmas time, lay off all these people. I paid 'em all out three months severance. And that this was four or five years ago and prior to waste. Well, and I just thought, I'm not ever doing this again. I can't put, I can't build a model that is in an ecosystem that is controlled by greed and corruption. And so my hope was to build a life raft with waste. Well, and revive and I build it. And we get all this momentum. Patience are ecstatic. You know, the average wage dwell person refers me one and a half patients I mean it's a cash model. These are people spending their hard earned money. The way you know this works is if it didn't work, I'd be fucking fired.

4 (1h 17m 58s):
They're not gonna spend their paycheck for something that doesn't work. But look at all the people you've referred me. Everyone for the most part is ecstatic.

3 (1h 18m 6s):
Well, I could talk about it personally. It's I mean. Your your, your treatments have helped me tremendously. There's been like that MCL tear that I had on my left knee that just kept fucking with me. That doesn't exist. I just did rounds on the bag, dude. Yeah. It doesn't affect me at all anymore. I mean it stem cells, whether it's mesenchymal stem cells, b PC 1 57 peptides, all these different modalities, all these different tools that you use, they fucking work. Yeah. 100% work. I'm 56 years old. I mean I'm supposed to be like a, an aging falling apart person. Most people that hit my age I mean I'm not even middle aged. I'm past the border, you know? Yeah. Like middle age, what am I gonna live to one 12 I mean?

3 (1h 18m 48s):
Some people I guess have done it, but it's pretty rare. Right?

4 (1h 18m 51s):
But, but, and, and that's, that's if, if you start talking about driving longevity and driving human lifespan, you start by driving health span. Yes. And in order to drive health span, we've gotta take a look under the hood. And so this is where I was going earlier with the insurance stuff. You've got to start thinking of your insurance, your health insurance as managed care. They are there to manage chronic disease, maximize profits. Right? Okay. What do I mean by that? Think of it like car insurance. Your car insurance is there when you wreck the car. Your car insurance is not there to rotate the triers, change the oil and maintain the car. Dana White had an amazing quote.

4 (1h 19m 32s):
I will never go to a fucking primary care again in this country. And he even, he articulated it without even knowing he's articulating it. And he's not even a healthcare guy. And Dana saw it. And so, well,

3 (1h 19m 44s):
It's based on his own personal recovery. The way his bo when when Gary Brecka started working with him, he was, you know, really overweight, pre-diabetic, really fucked up. And now the guy looks fantastic. What's crazy to me is like the red light bed, what it's done to his face.

4 (1h 20m 1s):
It's crazy. Like

3 (1h 20m 3s):
His face looks 10 years younger. It's nuts.

4 (1h 20m 6s):
Well, a lot of people don't understand like that. And, and again, Huberman did a phenomenal job. I can't remember the exact podcast, but he dove deep into the, and yet this, so when, when these primary cares or your doctor out there says, red light therapy's bullshit, they don't know what they're talking about. It's been around since 1905. A guy won a Nobel Prize for using it to treat a disease state. I can't remember all of it. I'll butcher it so I won't even try. But the gist of it is there, there was just a study done in orthopedics that red light therapy helped reduce osteoarthritis better than steroid injections and the other treatment options that they're using in the marketplace in orthopedics today.

4 (1h 20m 47s):
And it's not foo pseudoscience. Huberman breaks it down and explains it through using red lights. There's long wave and short wave, right? And the long wave pierces through the epidermis into all of the tissue in your body, all the way to the cellular level, all the way to your cells, spurring cellular turnover and increasing a TP, which is cellular energy. And so it gives your body the energy needed to heal itself. It reduces inflammation, it helps with the neuropathic pain, it helps with skin tone, skin complexion, it helps with eyesight. But again, these are all things that typically aren't talked about in traditional medicine.

3 (1h 21m 32s):
Well, like I said, I know it works. I I know it works 'cause I'm a part of it. Yeah. And what's what's fascinating is the ability to maintain, because everyone's worried about getting old and getting decrepit. But if you're not seeing any decline as you age in your ability to maintain your physique, your endurance, your energy levels, we haven't done this before. Like this hasn't been something on a large scale that human beings have participated in while they were going through this process of degeneration. The natural degeneration that most people, most people experience as they

4 (1h 22m 7s):
Get older. Well, it's, it's a, it's such a multitude that you asked me too last time what, what you asked me about low testosterone and what, what could have caused it? and I look at that and I go, it's everything, right? Like there's another, when we get back to red light, red light or, or not red light green and blue light can increase testosterone levels, right? Not only can what is green, they will, you get it from sunlight. So what, what you found is if you stand in the sun 30 minutes a day, it drastically improves testosterone levels. Again, Huberman goes into this too on a different podcast, but how much he breaks it down, I don't remember the exact specifics, but it's, it, the gist of it is if you have low testosterone, okay, are you inflamed?

4 (1h 22m 52s):
What is your diet? Are you working out, are you lifting weights? Are you getting sleep? Are you getting sunlight? Are you eating good protein sources? These are all just basic questions that we could ask and dive into to help patients optimize their hormone levels. But what happens if, if, like for me, I was up at 4:00 AM to go get into the operating room. I stood in the operating room and would come out and it'd be dark again. I didn't see the light of day for freaking like 13 years, like literally. And so I look back now and I'm like, well, Of course, because what happens is if you don't get sunlight, your body up upregulates melatonin and melatonin reduces testicular function and drives down testosterone.

4 (1h 23m 33s):
And they believe it's because we evolved, like essentially being, when we were caved dwellers, we would, in the winters, in the cold time of the year, our our rhythms would change with the environment and we would go and be more indoors. That wasn't the best time to breed or procreate. And so in the spring, in the summer when there's more sunlight, you're in the sun more and your melatonin level deregulates, your testosterone level upregulates, and all the sudden your fertile. And and same thing with women, women are impacted by this as well. Women have testosterone too. So if they're not getting enough sunlight, it can kill their sex drive. It can mess up their hormone levels.

3 (1h 24m 11s):
Well, women have more testosterone than they have estrogen

4 (1h 24m 13s):
I know, a lot of people don't realize that.

3 (1h 24m 15s):
Isn't that wild? Yeah. It's,

4 (1h 24m 16s):
It is wild.

3 (1h 24m 17s):
That's the primary sex hormone Yeah. For both sexes. Yeah.

4 (1h 24m 21s):
It's, it's, it's nuts. So he, he gets, huberman gets into all that academia, there's tons of studies on this. So, and, and all, I think the main reason it's not adopted more often is they're, they're just in the insurance model, right? They, they use the tool that's in their tool belt. And if that's not a tool in my tool belt, then I'm not gonna talk about it. and I don't have time to do it. And, and that's where I see large language models and an evolving market allowing patients to get that education on their own. They don't have to wait to talk to a doctor. Right? I will have a team of academics right there at your fingertips proactively analyzing everything about you.

4 (1h 25m 1s):
and I would tell you another, I talked about predictive, proactive, personalized, all that. Another one would be private. Private. You do not want this data in the hands of insurance companies. Listen to what Gary Breca was telling you. He worked for the big insurance companies. He worked to assess your all cause mortality risk and the risk profile to the insurance company, right? And so if you, if let's just say in a, in a miracle world, all of a sudden Blue Cross Blue Shield rolls out a large language model to streamline your experience and they want to tie into your wearables.

4 (1h 25m 43s):
The last person you want digging through your underwear drawer is the insurance company because they're going to use it to limit your care, to limit what they cover and to kick you off a plan. Right? They're gonna know when the chronic disease is coming and they're gonna charge you when they know they can monetize you. And then as soon as you reach a state where they can't, and that's the dangerous side of these large language models. And that's the dangerous side of the tool. And so a, a sword in the right hands is, you know, one thing and a sword in the wrong hands is a whole nother thing.

3 (1h 26m 15s):
Jesus, I wonder if they are trying to do that. I wonder if these insurance companies are trying to Oh,

4 (1h 26m 21s):
They're for sure gonna roll that out. Yeah. And if they're not already, and that's the problem. Like when you have an insurance based model, and that's where I would tell you maintain the car outside of the system, right?

3 (1h 26m 31s):
And the insurance based large language models are gonna ensure that you stay on these treatments. 'cause that's where they're profitable.

4 (1h 26m 37s):
Correct. So they's the insurance company and then we, we broke this down last time. Then there's the pharmacy benefit manager. Pharmacy benefit managers are a middleman between the insurance companies and big pharma. Okay? And they were put in place to negotiate the price of pharmaceutical drugs for the average American because so many drugs were coming into the marketplace, the government couldn't get to and decipher what drugs make sense, what drugs don't make sense, what should we cover, what should we not cover? So they allowed pharmacy benefit managers to do that. Within a decade, the big insurance companies went out and acquired pharmacy benefit managers within a decade from that date, the pharmacy benefit managers began to negotiate rebates to themselves, not discounts to the patient.

4 (1h 27m 23s):
Okay? So yeah, that's, that's where I was trying to go with this when I talked about 244 million in fraud in the state of Ohio. How, where's the fraud? And, and the answer is the margins are made in the mystery. The more confusing the insurance companies can make it, and the more convoluted they can make it, the more profits they can make. They have only a handful of levers they can pull to make money. So let's go over that. They can raise your copay, they can raise your deductible, they can raise your out-of-pocket expense. That's one lever. They can drive down the price of a drug that they buy at a wholesale price point.

4 (1h 28m 5s):
They can mark up the coverage of your care for your employer. Okay? And then they tier price, all the pharmacy benefit manager gives a tier pricing. That tier pricing is not based on what drug is best for you. It is based on what drug is best for their financials. And so they prioritize drugs in a tier pricing under the misnomer to the American people that a tier one drug is the best drug and a tier four drug is not as good. Right? But the truth is, a tier four drug is not as profitable because there's a lesser rebate. And so, so let's say, let's go back to the insulin example.

4 (1h 28m 46s):
The average price of this insulin is $381 is what the Senate Finance Committee found $381 on. I can't remember if it's sfi, I think was their, was their price out of that? The pharmaceutical company got less than $40. So that remaining 200 something dollars stayed at the pharmacy benefit manager. Okay? Pharmacy benefit managers are making billions upon billions of dollars a year. They decide what gets covered, what goes on your insurance plan, what your copay is, what your deductible is, and they can move any lever at any time. So examples, let's go back to GLP ones, right? The, the weight loss diabetes medications, those are showing up on insurance plans as tier four with a really high price tag.

4 (1h 29m 33s):
Well, you look at that and you go, man, wouldn't insurance companies wanna get rid of that because it's cost 'em a lot? No, because they're showing that the price of a GLP one is $1,300. They never paid $1,300. They paid a fraction of that. But then they go to the patient and they say, Hey, this is a tier four drug. You have a 50% copay on this drug, $500. Okay? So they made their money there, they made their money off the rebate from big pharma. Then they come to, so

3 (1h 30m 5s):
The patient pays more than they actually are paying for the drug.

4 (1h 30m 9s):
Correct? That is what happens on most drugs and just, and that is why I a compounding pharmacy. And that's, but even if they don't, let's say it's a drug that you think is covered, okay? Maybe the, maybe the, the pharmacy benefit manager got it wrong. A drug entered the market, they didn't know it was gonna be a blockbuster. They mis mis miscalculated how this was gonna play out. They have lever after lever they can pull, okay? High margin drugs, they've gone out and bought pharmacies. So they own mail order pharmacies and they, so what they'll do, like when I owned a pharmacy, blue Cross Blue Shield, they literally said they owed me over a million dollars for one month of shipping out drugs.

4 (1h 30m 52s):
I'd already shipped all the drugs to their patient. I'd already done everything. They come in and say, yeah, we're not gonna pay you. We don't think you collected the copays or deductibles. Okay? Alright. What we did, here's all the records I can show you. How soon can you get an auditor out? We wanna cooperate like we're a small company, we need this money. We, it's three months before we can get to you. Okay? And then they begin to make it so hard for you to survive in their insurance model. And then you'll be sitting there and a couple months later, knock on the door, Hey man heard is tough out there for these small pharmacies. You know, we're looking to acquire pharmacies just like you, right? They've gobbled up the lifeblood of America, they've put all these small pharmacies out of business, they now own most of these big juggernaut pharmacies.

4 (1h 31m 37s):
So even if CVS says, we only made $10 off that prescription, what did the pharmacy benefit manager make? Okay. Or what is the pharmacy, your mail order pharmacy making lever after lever after lever? Then the last part of it is my buddy who has ms, he, his, his MS treatment, I think is $14,000 a month. We just met, I have 260 something employees across both organizations. We met with the insurance company, they're raising our rates because they claim they paid $14,000 a month for his drug, right? He had a huge out-of-pocket burden on that drug, but was happy because he thought, well, hey man, it was gonna be 14 and I only had to pay X and then they never paid the 14 because they negotiated a rebate on the back end.

4 (1h 32m 25s):
And then they turn around and they mark up my insurance plan for all my employees every year, year after year. It is a profit driven system, not a patient outcome driven system. And so that's, that's all I'm trying to hammer home with patients. When you say, why don't you take insurance? Because insurance is the crux of the problem. You cannot operate in that ecosystem and provide quality care. You can't, everything's controlled, everything's dictated. It's, it's, it's terrible.

3 (1h 32m 57s):
And most people have no understanding or awareness of this. So there's no real push to fix this system. There's no real push to regulate and analyze all these problems and what's the downstream effect of these problems.

4 (1h 33m 17s):
Yeah. and I even hear clinicians talk, a lot of clinicians don't know, like a lot of clinicians don't even know about pharmacy benefit managers. They, the only reason I know is 'cause I've been in every aspect of this business and I've, and then I would get into it and I go, oh, oh God, that's why that was happening. Okay, now I get it. Now I get the magic trick. I understand what you're doing here, how you're moving and shifting profits and monetizing disease states. So think about this. If I can monetize your diabetes, why would I cure or prevent your diabetes, right? And, and I know if I'm a big wig at United or Cigna that you're gonna switch jobs in three years and by the time that diabetes leads to metabolic disease and a cascade effect that puts you in a hospital that costs me more money, you're somebody else's problem.

4 (1h 34m 9s):
Or if I can stall it long enough, you're the federal government's problem. And so every aspect of healthcare is focused on that quarter, on that day on, on that timeframe. Another terrible example of surgery, and this is honest to God, I talked to my buddy who's a president at an orthopedic company. He told me he was sitting down with a surgery center about joints, and there's a new joint that they have and it's more expensive. But the efficacy data of the long-term benefits on it astronomically outperform the other joint that this hospital system was using. He sat down with the CEO of the hospital and he said, here's the data. Five years out, here's what we're seeing, da da da.

4 (1h 34m 51s):
The CEO said, I don't give a shit what happens five years out. I swear to God, he's, this is a call I had yesterday. He said, he looked me in the eye Brigham. And he said, if you told me that this joint will last at least 90 days and it's cheaper, that's all I care about. Oh my God. Because all of their DA data and records and accountability are only on the first 90 days. Once you're out of that 90 day and you've done your, your little review and all that, you're off again and you're no longer a monetizable patient. And so too, when we talk about primary cares and what's happened, the same thing with pharmacies where they've been gobbled up by insurance companies, if they're in the insurance model, is the same thing that happened with primary care practices.

4 (1h 35m 35s):
The day of a primary care being independent and a free thinker is over, they're employed by hospital systems. Major conglomerates have gone out and bought up the primary care practice. Why? Because now they have the patient population. If I can get you at the primary care level, then I can control the referral of where that primary care sends you as we profiteer off your disease state. Okay? So you go to a primary care, let's say, let's just walk through the same example I gave earlier, a methyl folate test. They never run that test, right? There's genetics, the methylfolate test tells me my genetics, but there's epigenetics.

4 (1h 36m 18s):
The choices I make every day impact which genes turn on and which genes turn off. If nobody ever has a conversation with me in my thirties about my hormone levels, about getting into the sun, about eating right, and you push me towards chronic disease because you wrote me a prescription to treat a symptom, and now I go through this system and I get cancer, that primary care is going to refer me to an oncologist. And that oncologist is part of that same system, right? And most people don't know this. 65% of an oncologist's income comes from chemotherapy from the markup they're making off your chemotherapy, 65%.

4 (1h 37m 5s):
and I, I attach that link, Jamie, to where it, it talks about this. So all I'm getting at is Russell Brand said this and he was spot on. Another guy who's not a clinician, but understood what's going on here. If we make things about profits and quarterly earnings and big business and not patient outcomes, don't be shocked when we get phenomenal quarterly earnings and piss poor patient outcomes.

5 (1h 37m 32s):
65%,

4 (1h 37m 34s):
65 and I attached the link just so we'd have it.

3 (1h 37m 36s):
So they have a financial incentive.

4 (1h 37m 39s):
So this is an article where they were trying to, in the insurance companies, were trying to incentivize them to use a generic in this instance, because this is one of those issues where there's no rebate and no way for the insurance company to monetize it, but it breaks down how much money these guys, 65% of an oncologist income comes from that.

3 (1h 37m 57s):
Wow. This is incredible.

4 (1h 38m 1s):
And, and so I I say all this again because I don't think that a clinician's to blame, I don't think that they're just operating in the system that they're given. They're playing with the playing field that's been set before them and the rules of the game that have been set before them. But when patients say, why would I go to Peter Attia? Why would I go to Gary Breca? Why would I go to ways to, well why would I go to a cash pay clinic? You will not get these treatment modalities and you will not have these conversations and you will not do that deep dive. So in a dream world, what I'm envisioning as we build this multidisciplinary institute here in Austin and we open these facilities across the country, is a lot of the care will be virtual and will be managed from the comfort of your own home, driven by large language models that are tying into your wearables and all those things we talked about earlier.

4 (1h 38m 54s):
But we first have to establish a baseline. What do I mean by that? If, if budget was no constraint and you could afford $1,200, I would say you come in, you do a dexa, you do a VO two max. Those two data sets alone allow us to calculate your all cause mortality risk I, know how much visceral fat you have I know how much subcutaneous fat you have I know how much lean muscle mass you have on your left quad versus your right quad I. know your bone mineral density. Then we add in a VO O2 max test. If you can be in the top 25% of VO two max, you reduce all cause mortality by 400%. Okay?

4 (1h 39m 34s):
So now you combine that with a dexa, now you combine that with a gut biome. Now you combine that with a gene test where we know what genes you have, what are your genetics? And now we can help guide you on how to prevent epigenetics, how to prevent and, and, and use epigenetics to prevent disease states from chronically manifesting. And we can truly get proactive and predictive. We can truly prevent chronic disease. When you said living to be 106 or 112, whatever you said, Peter Atia talks about this too. The difference between somebody dying at the average human life expectancy and making it to be a centenarian. The only difference is the onset of chronic disease.

4 (1h 40m 15s):
So today, can we stop or slow the progression of chronic disease? And by brilliant minds like David Sinclair, like Ian White, you know the, my my stem cell buddy who's our chief science officer, can we buy them time to see if they can unlock the code? Because when Ian breaks it down and I definitely wanna get into stem cells. I don't know how far in we are. We're good. Keep going. Okay? Because when Ian breaks down, when you start talk, and this isn't me talking like I'm, I'm trying to learn like a sponge from people who are way smarter than me. Like I'm just, I'm a simpleton just trying to make it and figure it out.

4 (1h 40m 56s):
But when Ian breaks down that we share a common hi, his theory is this, in the world of biology, we share a common ancestor with species that live 400 years. The Greenland shark lives 400 to 600 years with no cancer. We have a jellyfish that lives eternally in the ocean. It lives over 5,000 years. It can regenerate. We have salamanders that can regenerate limbs. We have Galapagos tortoise that lives over 200 years. We share a common ancestor with those species. And what that means is, within our genetic makeup, within our code, we have the code to access those traits.

4 (1h 41m 40s):
How do we find those black boxes and activate them? Right? And so for me, when I talk about, you know, optimists are usually successful, pessimists are usually right. Like I'm optimistic, the future's bright, the opportunity's there. We can do this. Like we, there's so much opportunity, but the first step is to get proactive, to take yourself out of the system to do the data because we can't improve what we don't measure. So if you were to come in and establish that baseline that I was talking about earlier, we now have a full comprehensive analysis of where you started the day you started treatment. The only test I hadn't got to yet is an EEG.

4 (1h 42m 20s):
So for me, we do, Shane introduced me, Shane Dorian introduced me to Wave neuroscience. Super cool company. They're using artificial intelligence. Again, it's a tool, right? Can be used for good or bad. The example of where AI can be used for great things is they use artificial intelligence to analyze an e, EG and to put it into a report that a layman, you know, Neanderthal like me can understand. So they, they scanned my brain. I was able to look at this report and tell how my neurons are firing, where my neurons are misfiring, how my neurons are losing bandwidth from the posterior of my brain to the prefrontal cortex of my brain.

4 (1h 43m 1s):
Okay? Why is that important that that woman we talked about earlier that may have anxiety or depression? That's another tool to assess that. We know that it has an 80 over an 80% success rate, way more efficacious than any SSRI, which have been debunked and proven to be bullshit, to way more than any of these antidepressants, anti-anxiety meds. And it's a permanent fix. We, we, we scan your brainwaves and then from there we can use a technology called mert, which is a magnet. And the AI will give you a precision approach to rewiring your brain. So it uses a magnet to pull those firing neurons down the correct path.

4 (1h 43m 41s):
And so let me quantify it and give you how, an example of how it works for me, my brain. So the human brain has variances. Some brains are moving as slow as 6.5 hertz, you know, top tiers 13 hertz. And that's how fast you can analyze data. And so if there was a red dot and I flashed it up on a screen and I flash it once, everyone will see that as long as they're above 6.5 hertz, if I flash it twice really fast, anyone below 9.5 hertz, they won't be able to make that signal connect to the prefrontal cortex to assess that it flashed twice. Does that make sense? Okay. So the posterior of my brain moves at 12.5 hertz.

4 (1h 44m 20s):
That's a really fast brain relative to the average population. But by the time it makes it to the front of my brain, I'm moving at 9.5 hertz. Why? It's years of sleepless nights stress, anxiety, epigenetics, diet, nutrition, head trauma, these athletes with concussions. So they're using it mainly to treat athletes with depression from concussions and brain injuries. And we can't fix the anatomical issues of the brain, but we can help those neurons fire appropriately and maximize the delivery of the bandwidth of the signal. And so through brain mapping, we're able to create a precisioned plan where that magnet is literally tuned to the frequency of my brain and is able to drive that 12.5 hertz all the way from the posterior to the prefrontal cortex.

3 (1h 45m 12s):
Have you done this? Yeah. What did it do for you?

4 (1h 45m 14s):
I haven't, I haven't gone through the training yet. Yeah, we just got the equipment at ways to well, like last week. But are you

3 (1h 45m 19s):
Gonna do it for yourself? Oh yeah.

4 (1h 45m 21s):
Oh yeah. Because I'm at nine point I, mean, sorry, 12.5 and at the prefrontal I'm at 9.5. Okay. That's almost a 20% improvement in brain cognitive function. And so when I love the, the idea of human optimization, like I love helping people, but like refining people who are already studs. That's fun. I I immediately think what about they're, they're using it a lot with high level operators. They've already signed all these government department of defense contracts and they're using it for navy seals, for snipers, for people who have to make split second decisions under high pressure environments. You want that neuron firing all the way through.

3 (1h 45m 58s):
I would imagine it'd be good for comedy. Oh,

4 (1h 46m 0s):
I would think I totally, I immediately thought of Tony Hinchcliffe. Yeah. Because sarcasm is a sign of a, of, of a really powerful prefrontal cortex. So I was interested in like somebody who's like an improv roaster type. I'm

3 (1h 46m 13s):
Curious. Oh, he's the best at it. Yeah. Yeah. I'd love to find out what, how his brain is.

4 (1h 46m 16s):
Yeah. We're gonna have it at the clinic actually gonna arrive tomorrow. Ooh,

3 (1h 46m 20s):
I wanna do

4 (1h 46m 21s):
It. So it's sick.

3 (1h 46m 21s):
It's sick. I wanna find out what's going on in my brain.

4 (1h 46m 24s):
It's, it's amazing. So for me, the other thing I found out is I have a, I don't wanna call it anomaly. I have a, a rare type of brain. Less than 15% of brains have a prefrontal cortex that can fire at the same speed as the posterior is what they were telling me. So I could maximize I'm, I'm not maximizing my brain's potential, right? And then I go to, okay, when we talk about the four horsemen, diabetes, atherosclerosis, cancer, and then the last one's neuro neuropathic decline, Alzheimer's and, and neurodegeneration. When we begin to use these tools and allow AI to get ahead and get proactive instead of reactive, then we can start to assess your baseline.

4 (1h 47m 10s):
And now we've monitored not just your biomarkers, not just your gut health, not just your genetics and your epigenetics. We're now also monitoring your brain health and your neuro wave health. And we can refine that with a precision approach. And the traditional model uses a magnet as well. But it's only indicated if you, let's go back to the insurance. The only indication where you can use this technology and have insurance cover it is somebody who's failed two or more SSRIs. Okay? At that point you've been taking drugs for over a year.

3 (1h 47m 45s):
So who knows what's going on with these

4 (1h 47m 46s):
Brain because of these drugs. And now you're gonna take a sick patient and try to optimize their brain. And without this ai, without the AI playing an assistant to it, the max hurts that that magnet will go is 9.5.

3 (1h 47m 59s):
Has anyone done an analysis of the impact of nootropics on these?

4 (1h 48m 5s):
You're going right down the path. Okay. Yeah. Not that I'm aware of, but

3 (1h 48m 8s):
That, are you taking any,

4 (1h 48m 10s):
Yeah, I take, what is it called? Four sigmatic the the mushroom nootropics. But the direction we're headed with this, this is another thing I wanted to talk about. I'm glad you said that. Where you've been talking to Dell Medical School and their psychedelic research institute and a former Rogan alumni, Dr. Rick Damer, not Rick d Doblin. No, Rick Goblin's friend. Dr. Bruce Damer. Sorry. Yeah. Jesus. Bruce. See that firing, need to speed it up. Dr. Bruce Damer. Well

3 (1h 48m 42s):
You're been firing for two hours straight, bro. You're going hard.

4 (1h 48m 45s):
So we are, we have a letter of intent with Bruce Damer and we're in negotiations with Dell Medical University to be part of their psychedelic research institute. And what that would allow us to do is Bruce has done a spinoff of maps and the premise is, it's called Minds and it's using low dose psychedelics to see if we can optimize human brain performance. Mm. He came on your podcast I think like 10 years ago. Yeah. A long time ago. He said y'all played pool. And he left that next morning and went and did Ayahuasca and solved some equation that he had been working on for like a decade and came out the other end of Ayahuasca with the answer.

4 (1h 49m 28s):
And so since, what

3 (1h 49m 29s):
Did pool have to do with it?

4 (1h 49m 30s):
He said y'all played pool and he was telling you the next day he was gonna leave to Peru to do ayahuasca. So I didn't know if that would refresh your memory on who he was.

3 (1h 49m 36s):
Oh no, I remember him. Okay.

4 (1h 49m 37s):
Yeah. Yeah. A super nice guy. But, so he's had this vision of could we use psychedelics to solve complicated equations and puzzles and I know, there's like a bunch of mixed reviews on if this is true or not. So I don't want to like frick using LSD to come up with the theory of the Helix, right. Steve Jobs using LSD to come up with some of his visionary ideas. And so there is a sense of creativity that comes with that. But this gives us a quantifiable, measurable approach to see did it change neuropathic response, right? This, this using the EEG and using the neuro, the wave neurosciences technology gives us just another tool in the tool belt, another assessment tool.

3 (1h 50m 27s):
Hmm. That's very interesting. It's all very well I know that nootropics do have an effect. They definitely have an effect on me. So I'm fast, I would, I would really like to try the difference between like trying something like Alpha Brain, black Label and then doing that study and see if it has an impact Yeah. On whether or not it's more efficient.

4 (1h 50m 47s):
No, I'm the, I'm in the same but, and I also am curious. Can we pause real quick so I can take a leak? Yeah,

3 (1h 50m 53s):
Sure, sure, sure. Please. So, back to its stem cells.

4 (1h 50m 58s):
All right. Yeah. Yeah. So that's another, so, I I, I, we dove deep into that last time. I want to dive even deeper to explain to the listeners and to clinicians. 'cause so many clinicians will say, you cannot get stem cells or stem cells are bullshit, or they don't work. So let's break that down again. What we cannot do is clone or manipulate the cells. They have to be a minimally manipulated tissue. In the United States, these cells are mesenchymal signaling cells. Dr. Kaplan, who discovered these thought that they would differentiate, so he called them stem cells.

4 (1h 51m 40s):
But what he found is when you put them in the human body, they actually do not differentiate. Okay. So this is the biggest confusion, and that's, this is where I think a lot of orthopedic surgeons, and there, there's a whole, there's a whole layer of why, but one, it undercuts surgeries potentially. Right.

3 (1h 52m 1s):
And most certainly did with me. Yeah. Yeah. My, my surgeon was recommending surgery. He was saying, you are going to have to have surgery. This was over 10 years ago. Yeah.

4 (1h 52m 12s):
And so they don't, so they're, they're saying, okay, if it doesn't differentiate, then it doesn't do anything. Right? And, and so it's because the, the term that David Sinclair used, hetero chronic parabiosis, right? When you take an old mouse and you combine it, you, you merge its organ system with a young mouse. The old mouse gets younger, okay? Hetero chronic parabiosis happens in a mother when she's pregnant. Dr. Ian White, again, my chief science officer who has educated me on all of this, this isn't me talking. He, he released a, a study where he talked about this is occurring in a, in a, in a woman when she's pregnant with a child, and we can see it, how do we see it?

4 (1h 52m 54s):
The glow that the mother has, right? Her heart increases its capacity in the third trimester by 50%. It is not just the mother supporting the baby. It is the baby and young genes and protein codes supporting the mother and helping optimize her health to create an environment that is synergistic for both the baby and the mother that allows that baby to have an optimal environment. Okay? So when we take those cells, right, and, and orthopedic surgeons say, you have to use HSCs. You do, you have to use HSCs if you need them to differentiate, HSCs will differentiate.

4 (1h 53m 35s):
They'll migrate,

3 (1h 53m 36s):
What is an HS C?

4 (1h 53m 38s):
It's this, it's a different type of stem cell that they're pulling out of the bone marrow. Okay? And so, but the problem with that is to extrapolate that HSC, you're pulling it from, like you, you're in your fifties. You, you have 50 something year old HSCs, right? We know from the moment of birth, those HSCs viability begin to decline rapidly. And year after year after year, I think it's like one in 10,000. Once you're over the age of 30, they, you may be getting 10,000 HSCs, but only one of them is a viable HHSC that'll actually do anything. And so when we look at what's happening with these cellular treatment options that are placental derived or birth tissue derived, it's the same exact product that they're using over in, in Panama that they're using in all these other locations.

4 (1h 54m 29s):
You're just not allowed to expand them in a Petri dish. And so there's an article that I listed on the waist towell website, because you asked me last time, is there a benefit to expanding the cells? And my answer was, the optimal dosage is the minimal dosage required to elicit the desired response with the minimal side effect profile. What does that mean? Does it work? And did I have side effects? If it works and you didn't have side effects, then there is no reason to add additional risk to a treatment or to manipulate something. And so there was a study where they put 200 million live cells versus 20 million live cells in a heart, and both made improvement.

4 (1h 55m 11s):
And the improvement did not differentiate, did not, it was, it was co comparable.

3 (1h 55m 15s):
And so, so when they're doing these treatments, whether it's in Panama or Tijuana, and they're, they're doing these Petri dish, well, they extract, they expand, they multiply. What is, when, when they have the dosage, what is it based on?

4 (1h 55m 34s):
Well, that, that they're making an assumption more is better. That's where I'm going with that. Is that it? Yeah. And so, and you're also based, you're also based historically, like when an orthopedic surgeon says it's bullshit or it doesn't work, it's because they're misunderstanding the mechanism of action. Okay? They're, they're assuming if an MSC comes from an umbilical cord or from a birth derived tissue, it can't differentiate. And if it can't differentiate, it can't become something. And if it can't become something, then it can't heal something because it's not gonna become a tendon and or a tendon cell and heal that tendon. You have to take a step back and go to the, the whole, the whole analogy of the young rat and the old rat, right?

4 (1h 56m 23s):
And, and you look at that and you say, okay, when we put these young vibrant cells in a body, it's not just the cells. Yes. You're getting mesenchymal signaling cells, which are going to go to that site of injury and trigger your body's own cells to come. Those cells transfer their mitochondria into your cells and their jobs done. They're outta your system in a few days. Okay? From that point forward, the magic happens with all the other goodies that are included in that treatment. The extracellular vesicles, the exosomes, the cytokines, the scaffolding, the RNA, right? And so the example I can give is with a facial treatment, right?

4 (1h 57m 4s):
We do a skin pin and we treat you with cellular treatment modalities and acellular both. But regardless, it will have R-N-A-R-N-A is a message, a messenger code that allows your cells to get a young, healthy message. Like I said, parabiosis, when the mother's pregnant, the baby's also improving her health. It's not just her improving the baby's health. Those same messages are in that tissue that we're putting in your body or on your skin. And what they do is, think of it like a construction site. If you're gonna build a building, you not only need all the essential elements and essential ingredients or products to build that building, but you also need the blueprint.

4 (1h 57m 50s):
The RNA is the blueprint. It's the instructions and all the extracellular vesicles and all these other items are the goodies and the materials of life that help with the healing process. And so we're essentially attempting to create a perfect environment for healing. Where things have gone south is people have over promised, they've said it'll cure all sorts of things. It won't, you know, now you've got orthopedists saying they don't work, and it's because of one people have over promised two, you know, they don't understand the mechanism of action. And they're, I think they're kind of thinking, well, they're not differentiating, so it wouldn't work. Does that make sense?

3 (1h 58m 28s):
Yeah, it does make sense.

4 (1h 58m 29s):
But we've worked with dozens of NFL athletes. Most of them have not told their team doctors, not because it's banned in the NFL. It's legal in the NFL

3 (1h 58m 39s):
Team. Doctors don't want them to use it. It

4 (1h 58m 42s):
Well, because team, and even then, right?

3 (1h 58m 44s):
I've talked to a guy recently about

4 (1h 58m 46s):
Yeah,

3 (1h 58m 46s):
Same, same situation. Yeah.

4 (1h 58m 48s):
And so even then, the reason they don't want him to use it is, okay, I'm an orthopedic surgeon. I am. And when you know that situation behind the scenes, you're always on the bubble. The team doctors interviewing for his job all the time too. Right? So if you're the team doctor and you practice good old, traditional 20-year-old, tried and true orthopedic surgery, you're not putting anybody at risk. You're not taking anything fringe. You're not doing anything outside the norm where another academic guy could question you. Right? So it's play in it's safe, right? And the Hippocratic oath is first do no harm, which is the dumbest thing I've I mean, of course, do no harm. Like the goal isn't to not fuck it up.

4 (1h 59m 29s):
The goal is to make this person better, right? Like that oath makes no sense to me. And so I, I've, I've asked his permission to talk about this and we can talk about Aren Aren Rogers. I met Aren prior to his injury via his body work guy Aren Alexander, who I think you've met, crazy fitness guy. And he's helped Aren with his preseason prep getting ready for this season. And when Aren tore his Achilles, I reached out to Aren Alexander and I said, I would, I would love to try and help Aren and see if we can help him with this stuff. And that's why when I was talking about the hetero chronic parabiosis stuff, he had a great surgeon.

4 (2h 0m 12s):
He had a great surgery, he took a multidisciplinary approach to his healing. It went above and beyond just doing a surgery to the point where he did cellular treatments. Those cellular treatments are, for all the reasons I discussed earlier, creating the perfect environment for optimal healing. He used infrared and I. Don't wanna steal Aaron's thunder 'cause he's got a documentary coming out about it. And I think he's been documenting this entire process. But the fact, even separate from Aren, the truth of the matter is I mean dozens of NFL athletes that have had phenomenal results with this stuff. I had one guy who was told he was gonna be out for eight weeks.

4 (2h 0m 54s):
He was back practicing in four weeks. I said, did you tell, did you tell the team doctor? And he was like, fuck no, I didn't tell him. I didn't want to hear it. I didn't, I would never hear the end of it. and I, just think a lot of it comes down to dogma, misunderstanding, frustrations with over marketing and people promising people the world.

3 (2h 1m 13s):
Also, that these doctors and surgeons are a part of the same system that you've already highlighted. They're not independent and completely outside of it. If they were, they wouldn't be hired by the biggest teams in the world. They want the most accredited, the most decorated doctors to perform on these incredible athletes that are extremely valuable to these organizations. They're not gonna just risk it on some fucking witch doctor.

4 (2h 1m 42s):
Yep. Yeah. And, and, but that's where I need, where I want people to understand this isn't pseudoscience either. When we talk about the cellular and acellular treatment options, these are building blocks. These are essential ingredients that would diminish as we age, right? Same thing we talked about earlier. As we get older, we have less and less of these viable cells. We have less and less effective cells. And by giving your body all of these essential building blocks, plus the instructions on how to build via the RNA, now the body's getting young signaling cells, fresh, young, vibrant signaling cells. So back to what I was saying earlier about bone marrow doctors.

4 (2h 2m 22s):
If you talk to an orthopedic surgeon in this country and you say, I want stem cells, they'll say, the only FDA approved stem cell option is bone marrow aspirate. You're right. That's the only indicated option. That's the only option where you can make a claim, right? If, but there are other options in America that work, that are efficacious. Now, do they differentiate? No, they don't. And but neither does the stuff you're getting in Panama. But the future of stem cells, and, and Dr. White and I have talked about this, and this is another thing we're gonna be doing at the new facility here in Austin, is we're building a state-of-the-art lab. And we are gonna do trials, and we are gonna do the work at the bench because Dr. White is on the precipice of being able to use HSCs, the cells that do differentiate, but we will not pull them from bone marrow.

4 (2h 3m 13s):
We will take them from the umbilical cord tissue, the youngest, healthiest, most vibrant cells with all the extracellular vesicles and goodies. And if we can harness those cells and use those cells, they would be able to differentiate. Now, the reason you would want to do that is down the road to be able to rebuild cartilage or, you know, the critiques that guys have. Like, is that, Jamie, could you pull up on the table? There's a study,

3 (2h 3m 41s):
Is that on the table rebuilding cartilage

4 (2h 3m 43s):
In the future? Yeah, because anybody, that is not what happens. Yeah. No, not that I know of. But Dr. White has some really fascinating stuff he's done at the bench and he's been, that's why he and I were talking about Let's do it

3 (2h 3m 57s):
Because that's the big one. That's the big one with people that have knee injuries.

4 (2h 4m 0s):
So there's an article,

3 (2h 4m 1s):
Can I pause you for one second? Yeah. When you were talking about this joint that is far more durable. What, what kind of joint were we talking about? The the, the doctor said, don, don't give a fuck.

4 (2h 4m 12s):
I, I don't know. I don't know. This was my buddy it a joint, I don't wanna say was knee joint. Yeah, it was a knee joint. But I didn't wanna say the company. I thought you were

3 (2h 4m 18s):
Saying that. No, no, no, no. So it's a knee

4 (2h 4m 19s):
Joint because I don't

3 (2h 4m 19s):
Wanna, because the current, like my mom just got a knee replacement. The current one is like, you're good for 20 years. and I'm like, Jesus Christ, I can't imagine my mom at 95 having a new knee surgery. Yeah. You know, which is really kind of, it's a weird thing where you say, put something in my body that's permanent, but not really. Yeah. It's not really permanent.

4 (2h 4m 38s):
Well, and that's where I'm like, you know, can we delay, can we offset surgery? Even with these GLP ones, you know, there's a whole, a whole deal that came out, I think in the orthopedic journal where they're talking about now that people are taking GLP ones and losing all this weight. Right now there's a spike in orthopedic surgeries because one of the prerequisites is you have to be healthy for surgery. Well, the, one of the biggest risk factors for knee issues is being obese. Right? Right. You've worn that joint out, carrying all that weight around. So they wanna get the weight off, then do the surgery, right? Right. But what's coming is there will be less of those surgeries as we get the weight off these people.

4 (2h 5m 18s):
Right. The degenerative means stress on the joint. Yes. You're gonna lose a lot of that. And then I look at that and go in combination therapy of using, getting the weight off, optimizing their health, red light therapy. There's all sorts of studies on red light therapy and osteoarthritis. Jamie, on the ways to, well link, there's one for it is umbilical cord derived tissues and osteoarthritis, I think out of China. I, I sent that one to you. So there was a study just came out 2022. It is literally ultrasound guided. Let's see one. Yeah, that's it.

4 (2h 5m 58s):
So literally, this is what you and I have been talking about. Mm. This when they say, where's the study? Where's the data? Here you go, dude. Right here. Ultrasound, ultrasound guided interarticular injection of expanded umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells in the knee for osteoarthritis, the safety, the efficacy, and the MRI data, it, basically the synopsis is, it works like a huge percentage of the people ended up coming out the other end and even a year out are still having phenomenal results.

3 (2h 6m 28s):
So it says right here, statistically in, in significant improvement on MRI scans at 12 months in cartilage loss. So does that mean it's regenerating cartilage?

4 (2h 6m 37s):
I think it's slowing cartilage loss. Okay.

3 (2h 6m 40s):
Right. Osteophytes, bone marrow lesions, effusion and enova synovitis, how do you say that? Synovitis, how do you say that word? I don't know. Synovitis, synovitis, synovitis. And significant improvements in subcon sclerosis.

4 (2h 6m 57s):
And so when you look at the mechanism of action, right? I keep going back to the hetero, hetero chronic parabiosis, right? They, the average orthopedic surgeon, they're looking at it and saying, these cells don't differentiate, they're not going to produce anything. They're not gonna regrow a tendon. You're misunderstanding how they work. You're misunderstanding the mechanism of action. It's providing the ingredients, it's providing the building blocks, and it's providing the RNA, which is the instruction. Here's an example that's easy to show is, again, my skin, like we talked about, we've treated don don't even know thousands of people. And when you use these cellular treatments on skin, it improves skin elasticity, it reinvigorates the cells, it improves collagen production and it improves fibroblasts and it does it through the exact same method.

4 (2h 7m 48s):
You're getting the message of a young, healthy, vibrant cell. All those little codes in the, in the cellular form of RNA are being loaded into your cells and telling your cells to act young again, essentially. Mm. And it's causing, I don't wanna call it a reversing in aging, but it's definitely slowing aging and improving cellular health. And then you combine that with things like red light therapy and all these different treatment modalities that are being ignored and they are backed by science. Like I mean. I can send you, I didn't tag them on the waste wall website, but I could send Jamie dozens of articles or you could listen to Huberman where he breaks it down.

3 (2h 8m 27s):
It's wild shit, man. It's really interesting, the resistance to it, that that's what's really interesting by people that are ignorant. It's interesting that they would want to resist. Yeah. Despite all the anecdotal evidence and now actual scientific studies.

4 (2h 8m 41s):
Well, and even with Aren, Aren Rogers was, he just got interviewed on something ESPN or one of them two days ago, and he's such a nice guy. Like he's such a good dude. Literally they were saying the new conspiracy theory is you didn't really tear your Achilles, or it was a partial tear. And Aren was so gracious about it and said, well, hey, I'm glad that Americans are now questioning things instead of just basically like a few years ago they weren't. And

3 (2h 9m 7s):
Right. And they're saying this just because he is recovered so quickly. Yeah,

4 (2h 9m 11s):
Yeah, yeah. And it's, it's a multitude of things. It's, Aren is a phenomenal athlete. Aren primed his body. Aren had a phenomenal surgeon. They did use an arthrex technique, but, and a lot of people are saying it was a state of the art, the Arthrex technique was being used a decade ago when I was in the operating room. So it is a procedure that's been around. Now, I do know one of the unique things they did with Aren was, or not unique, but one of the newer things they did was an internal brace, which gives you a little bit more protection in the early phases of the, of the healing process. But Aaron's recovery, Aren getting approved by the clinicians to get on the field faster. All of those things are because Aren thought outside the box.

4 (2h 9m 53s):
And Aren is doing all of these extra things that, you know, I think most traditional medicine is ignoring. And Aren was open-minded enough to do that. It's not

3 (2h 10m 5s):
Just, and ways to, well, yeah, I mean that's, you're not taking credit for it, but that's how he found out about all these things.

4 (2h 10m 10s):
Yeah. Well I think he's Aren, Aren got Aren. Alexander was big into red light therapy, talked to Aren about that. Hyperbaric, it's just methodically using the technology that's out there and building upon the great work that that surgeon already did. Right. I don't wanna take credit away from any of those guys or from Aren and his hard work and his dedication that he put into that. This

3 (2h 10m 31s):
Is the technique. Yeah. Yeah. So there's the rip and the Achilles and then they suture it, bring it all together. It is amazing how they do it now in comparison to the way they used to do it,

4 (2h 10m 44s):
If you could. Yeah. and I and I have even on there.

3 (2h 10m 49s):
I lost it there. No, it's okay. We get it.

4 (2h 10m 52s):
But Aren was telling me Aren, Aren Alexander, not Aren Rogers was telling me that the clinical team was looking at his Achilles and were very impressed with how much blood flow and how healthy the Achilles already was. And so, you know, I mean as a, that's a catastrophic injury. And his recovery time is amazing. And it's because all the things he's doing,

3 (2h 11m 15s):
It's been like 11 weeks.

4 (2h 11m 16s):
I can't I

3 (2h 11m 16s):
Know. He's already on

4 (2h 11m 17s):
The field, but it's, it's nuts. It's

3 (2h 11m 18s):
Something crazy. Like

4 (2h 11m 19s):
That's nuts. Yeah. But I mean, again, he's worked his ass off and he's done all the right things and he's got a documentary that's gonna show the world all the things that he did and how hard he worked to get back for that team. So I just think it's really, really cool stuff. I'm not taking credit for his healing. I'm, I'm thankful that we got to play a small part, but I just think the main gist of that message is there are are other alternative treatment options. and I think, a lot of times orthopedic surgeons view it as we're trying to say not to have surgery. There are times where you definitely need surgery. Mm. And my message is, when you have surgery, why would you not want to put your body in an environment that is conducive to healing?

4 (2h 12m 6s):
Right? Why would you not wanna optimize that? Whether it's through cellular treatments, acellular treatments, peptides, which, you know, again, we were limited with what we could treat Aren with because he's an NFL athlete. So we weren't allowed to do things that we would do if somebody, you know, if, if you're just the average Joe and you tear your ACL doing juujitsu, man, I would tell you we should absolutely take a a, a throwing everything at the kitchen sink at you to heal. Like why would you not? You know? Right. Whether that's IGF, whether that's testosterone optimization, red light therapy, hyperbaric, all of those things are gonna contribute to the healing process.

3 (2h 12m 46s):
Yes. Well listen man, we covered a lot. There's gonna be a bunch of people going over this with fucking notes and trying to remember everything. But I think what you're doing is very important. and I think the message, I'm very happy that we can get that message out there because there's a lot of people and including me, that didn't really understand how difficult the situation truly was until it's laid out in a comprehensive manner. And you know, this is the reason why you're getting bad information from your primary physician. This is the reason why you're getting bad information from orthopedic surgeons. It's a complicated, fucked up, convoluted system that is compromised by money. Yep,

4 (2h 13m 25s):
It is. Yeah. But the message too is there's hope. There's hope and there's so much amazing things coming. The future's bright. We ran out time, we didn't even get into CRISPR and all the things that are coming in the future. But I'm hoping to be on the cutting edge of that. So the last thing I'll say is if you're a PhD, if you're in academia, if you're interested in these things, if you wanna make a difference in the world, we're hiring, we're hiring pharmacists, we're hiring pharmacy techs. I mean we're hiring across the board nurse practitioners, if you're any, any of it, any and all of it. And also to anyone who's part of that AI world and tech world, I've been bugging Lex to try and hook me up with some of his contacts, but it hasn't manifested yet.

4 (2h 14m 12s):
So we're looking for all those positions if you're sick of being part of a broken system.

3 (2h 14m 16s):
Beautiful. Alright brother. Alright. Thank you.

4 (2h 14m 18s):
I appreciate it.

3 (2h 14m 18s):
Thanks for having, for being here. Bye everybody.