0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night, All day.

0 (12s):
What's

3 (12s):
Up man? Pleasure to meet you. What's happening?

4 (15s):
Pleasure to be here, Joe. Thanks for having me.

3 (16s):
Listen, my honor, I love your music. I got introduced to you by Duncan. We were in the green room of the mothership, and Duncan goes, you gotta hear this. And he puts on Family ties and I went, damn, that's a good fucking song. And then we played Q Country Roads and then we just got on a roll. And then like the whole night we played your music.

4 (34s):
Hell yeah, dude. It was

3 (35s):
Fucking awesome.

4 (36s):
He was telling me that, you know, he, he showed my music to you. He said, normally you don't like his recommendations, but he said, well

3 (43s):
He'll, he'll go little e my

4 (45s):
Audio. But he, he said that you dug that. And I was like, holy shit man. Isn't that something I, Duncan was really cool. I was like, I was at Apple Studios in Nashville doing like this live session thing with them when he, he messaged me on Twitter and asked me to be on his podcast and like that made my, my freaking week. Like I was like, holy shit, Duncan Trestle likes my music. Fuck yeah. That's so cool. And then we were, we were doing his podcast and then afterwards he's like, yeah man, I, I showed your music to Joe and he really liked it too. I was like, fuck yeah. So yeah, shout out to Dunkin. I appreciate him doing that man.

3 (1m 21s):
Nah, Dunkin's a man. He is one of the most unusual people that I've ever met in my life. There's not another one like him.

4 (1m 27s):
Yeah, he is cracking me up. Yeah,

3 (1m 28s):
He's a one of one that's a one of one. When he moved here, I was so happy. 'cause he was, he went to Asheville. 'cause you know, he grew up in Asheville and he moved there and it was just, you know, during the pandemic it got bleak there, you know, the jobs were all dried up, everything was fucked, everything closed down. And you said crime was crazy. It's like Asheville is like per capita and the top 10 of crime in the country. Oh,

4 (1m 55s):
Holy

3 (1m 56s):
Shit. I mean. I might have made that up.

4 (1m 57s):
No shit. I mean,

3 (1m 59s):
Let's see if that's a facts, because I think, I'm pretty sure Duncan told me that, but he's like, dude, there's so much fucking crime. It's everywhere. Everyone's on meth.

4 (2m 7s):
You dunking impersonation way better than mine. But we, we recorded the album there. Oh no shit. We were there for two weeks last January and it's like sleepy this time of year. I guess their, their tourism is, is at its lowest in January. And dude, I loved it. It's gorgeous. I love the town. And, and you know, don don't know it had some, some ness and, and stuff like that, but damn, I didn't know that.

3 (2m 32s):
I went back, I went there back in two, I think I did a gig there in 2015 or 16, somewhere around then. And I was like, god damn, what a great town. Just a perfect size. Not too big, you know, cool Artsy. Yeah. Beautiful scenery, you know, it's like the mountains.

4 (2m 50s):
Yeah, I dig it. We were at the, we played the orange peel I know, like four or five weeks ago. and it felt like a hometown show. Mm. That's awesome. That's a stronghold there in the mountains.

3 (3m 1s):
Duncan grew up there and he said when he was growing up there, there were so many cows that had magic mushrooms in their shit. That the farmers started putting some sort of antifungal thing in the cow's food so that it would repel the fungus from the cow shit. I was like, how Satanic

4 (3m 22s):
People, people were going out in their meadows trying to, trying to harvest those bad

3 (3m 26s):
Boys. You said it was everywhere. What is this? It was up in AP around April, so about a year ago. But what does this have to do with Epstein? That's just depicts, that's on the, oh, I was like, what are you saying? Tourist town? Asheville rocked by violence in the wake of defund police movement rolls out. Plan to combat crime spike. Yeah. So there was a big ass crime spike. Damn. Yeah. He said it was crazy. Yeah. He said, but that's the saddest fucking shit about like small, rural communities is when everything dries up, there's nothing, there's nothing there. There's no, there's no other jobs. There's no other place to go. There's, it's just if you have a small population of humans and they all live together. If, if the industry dries up, if businesses shut down, if things go under, like everyone's fucked.

3 (4m 9s):
Like people are so reliant. Yeah.

4 (4m 11s):
That, that's happening in my hometown right now. I mean, what's your hometown? Morgantown, West Virginia. And it's, you know, it, it has its ups and downs and right now it's definitely in a bit of a down, we had a, a big pharmaceutical company that was based outta West Virginia called Milan. And the founder passed away a little over a decade ago. So then when that happens, you know, it it, it goes into folks that didn't build it themselves. And, and they ended up selling to an Israeli company. And once that happened, they shut down those Headquarters in Morgantown where it had always been. I think that was 1200 jobs and a town of 26,000 people in, in the city limits.

4 (4m 52s):
So you imagine how many people that affects. Oh, everybody in the big circle then Covid. Oh. Which that happened during Covid. So then you al you also had Covid. So, you know, our our main street, it's called High Street is, and it's like one third closed down and it used to be all open.

3 (5m 10s):
Fuck. Yeah. Did you ever see Roger in me, the documentary? It's a Michael Moore documentary. It's the first one that he did. It's his best one, I think. And it's about Flint, Michigan. And it's about when, what happened when the car manufacturers all moved out the country and it's the saddest fucking documentary man. It's just, they just up and pulled the factories just so they can make more money having people work for cheaper and the whole town just collapsed. Collapsed. It's just, it's so sad. One of the saddest things is this lady that has this sign that says Bunnies for pets or food.

4 (5m 51s):
Damn.

3 (5m 51s):
Yeah. s like, you wanna think that like, you're committed to selling bunnies as a pet. If it's a, you know, imagine that little puppy We were showing Jamie's getting a puppy, a French bulldog and Jamie trying to con me into taking one of 'em. and it might have worked. It might have worked. I did a dirty trick. Yeah. I sent the, I sent a video of this puppy to all my daughters and my wife. So we might have a puppy.

4 (6m 16s):
And it was definitely like Jamie knew that was gonna happen too. It, it seemed like

3 (6m 19s):
He didn't know that I waited long. You waited a little bit. He didn't know that. But, but the moment I emailed it to the daughters I was like, they're gonna fucking go crazy. But imagine story. What's that? Onto what you were saying. There it is right there. Holy shit, man. Rabbits, buddies. Pets or meat for

4 (6m 34s):
Sale. That's something you don't see in the US every day.

3 (6m 37s):
It's a, it is a dark

4 (6m 38s):
Documentary. Look, look at her. She's skinning it right there. Yeah. It's like she's on a loan.

3 (6m 41s):
Yeah. It's a And she kills it right there too on, you know, she's holding it and cuddling it and then she snaps its fucking neck and cooks it. It's just, you would imagine that like those puppies, they're like Jamie, if they said you could keep this as a pet or you could eat it, like,

4 (6m 57s):
Dude, you, you see it in Flint. We play there once a year and our shows are great and the people are great, but man compared I see all the towns across America and, and that that one's

3 (7m 9s):
It's dark

4 (7m 9s):
Different.

3 (7m 10s):
They haven't done jack shit to fix that water either. don don't think they fixed that water at all. Have they? I don? Think so. I don't think so. Remember when Obama went there? That was a long time ago, man. That's two presidents ago.

4 (7m 21s):
I remember seeing videos of people, you know, lighting it on fire.

3 (7m 24s):
Well that is from the, that's fracking. That's from that movie Gasland. And that's, that's different. Did I

4 (7m 33s):
Get fooled?

3 (7m 34s):
Yeah. Well they might've did it in Flint too, but there, there are places in the country where you can light your fucking tap water on fire.

4 (7m 42s):
Unreal.

3 (7m 43s):
Yeah. And they say there's been some of that that existed even before fracking. It's kind of confusing 'cause you don't know how much the fracking industry is like, oh, that's always been here. Do not concern yourself with this. Yeah. This is no longer an issue. This is a little bit of a contamination, but look at the bright side. Yeah.

4 (8m 2s):
You never know.

3 (8m 3s):
You could put, just take tap water and fuel your car and You don use it as a candle.

4 (8m 9s):
Yeah. You, you, you can never take, you know the when when somebody's business is at stake. Exactly. You gotta kinda, you gotta get some different points of view on those types of things. Yeah.

3 (8m 18s):
It's very difficult to know what the fuck is actually going on. But overall it seems like fracking does a lot of fucked up shit. Updated.

5 (8m 25s):
It says they've got their lead levels below the federal threshold for like the sixth or seventh year in a row.

3 (8m 31s):
Oh, okay. But what does that mean? What's the federal, I don't like that. Right. don don't like that term federal threshold still in there. But what I mean, wouldn't it? How much would it cost? Think about how much money they spend on Ukraine. How much would it cost to provide every family in Flint with a filtration system, like a real hardcore filtration system that provides them with absolutely clean water Be a lot. I guarantee it wouldn't be a hundred and fucking $70 billion or whatever we've sent over to Ukraine. Yeah,

4 (9m 1s):
It'd be a lot less than that. Be a lot less than that.

3 (9m 3s):
Yeah. But not a goddamn thought of it. Not a conversation about massive filtration systems. Like there's a way to do this. We've gotta provide every family you, it's a small Flint's not that big.

4 (9m 16s):
Yeah. I mean there's

5 (9m 18s):
Four just over 40,000 households.

3 (9m 20s):
Yeah. That's not that big man. Wow. That is not that big. A

5 (9m 23s):
Thousand dollars a piece.

3 (9m 24s):
Yeah. How much is that? Yeah, I'm just guessing. Like if it,

5 (9m 27s):
If it was a thousand a piece, right. That'd be pretty easy.

4 (9m 29s):
I feel like it probably used to be way bigger than that too. I bet. You know, that's, that's not Mother's bigger than Morgantown, you know, and I with all the car industry stuff that used to be there. Yeah. It wouldn't surprise me if they had hundreds guarantee of thousands, I

3 (9m 40s):
Guarantee. Have you ever seen videos of Detroit from the 1950s and sixties? Yeah.

4 (9m 45s):
Yeah. It's like BoomTown Detroit

3 (9m 47s):
Was one of the biggest fucking, most wealthy cities in the world. In the world. Yeah. And now you got trees growing through houses. 'cause the houses have been abandoned. Top gear that show they went there. I, I think it wasn't Top Gear at the time. I think it was when they did the other show and did it for Amazon. What was that called when they did it to Amazon? When they went over to Amazon? The

4 (10m 12s):
Oh, I know what you're talking about. I forget

3 (10m 14s):
What called, I can't remember the name though. But what, what they did was they bought a house for like $500 and you know, they were like hanging out in this house while they lived, while they were staying there. I was like, you get a house for 500 bucks. Like what?

5 (10m 29s):
I looked into that one time. There's a, it's a little bit of a loophole. What's the loop when you're buying it for 500 bucks? At least the way it was when I read it. You're making a commitment to get it up to code within like seven days or something like that. You have a very limited amount of time, huh?

3 (10m 42s):
Up to you. Don't know if

5 (10m 43s):
You have to, but yeah, that's, you're spending $60,000 on top of that to get it up to code. Oh

3 (10m 47s):
Really?

5 (10m 47s):
Like you're buying it for 500 still, but you're still making a commitment to fix it. You

3 (10m 51s):
Get a house for 60 grand.

5 (10m 52s):
Shit. But I also just, I think Mike Epps just fixed up a whole block of houses. Not there, but in Gary, Indiana and outside of Indy. No

3 (10m 58s):
Shit. Shout out to Mike Epps. That's awesome. Just

5 (11m 0s):
Like that. Just like he bought a bunch. Bought the whole block. Fuck.

3 (11m 3s):
Yeah. That's awesome.

4 (11m 5s):
I heard Detroit has a bunch of manufacturing space. It's kind of a good opportunity for somebody that if somebody's got, you know, something that they wanna make, it's kind of a good place to go and get after it. We've, I think the last time we were there, we opened for, for Zach at one of those theaters there. But we were kind of chilling around downtown and it seems to be a little bit on the up and up in some parts of the downtown there by the baseball stadium, you know, and then compared to years past, like, you know, a while back when I'd been there before, it seemed like maybe it's taking a turn for the better. Yeah. There's

3 (11m 40s):
A little bit of a resurgence. There's a resurgence of like small businesses being established there. I know Shinola's out of there. You ever heard of that company? Shinola?

4 (11m 49s):
Yeah. American watches.

3 (11m 50s):
They make watches, they make a bunch of different stuff. Leather goods, cool stuff. They make like really good like messenger bags and that kind of shit. Like real cool American made stuff. So, you know, that's nice. It's nice that things like that are happening where people do rec and, and if you drive down there, there's so much area that is available. There's so many buildings that are just completely abandoned. The windows are all shattered and covered, spray paint and graffiti, but the bones are still there. Yeah. You know, if somebody wanted to rebuild it.

4 (12m 20s):
Yeah. If you, you got a good idea. Yeah. Once a manufacturing space, that'd be a good spot to go back in the day during the, you know, the, the car boom like Canton, Ohio, Detroit, Toledo, Flint. It was a lot of like folks from the mountains that were moving up there and, and getting those jobs. And I think that was the Hillbilly highway is like that. Where that come that term comes from. And my grandparents were, were one of those, they moved up to Canton, Ohio. My granddad was working for Ford. And the, the place where we're from in West Virginia is super country, like very rural. I think there's 4,000 people in the county now in Pendleton County.

4 (13m 2s):
And there was this, this local guy, I can't remember his name, but my, my great grandparents had an old like store and where you could kind of go and you could get your boots and your milk and your eggs and everything in this one little general store. And it was a hangout too. And this guy was like coming in the store and he is like, I'm going to Detroit and I'm telling you all what I'm gonna get a job headed up there. And he'd just talking about it for months and months. And then finally he is like, I'm going. And he gets in the car and goes, everybody's like, there goes so and so. And then two weeks later he rolled back into town. He never made it. He couldn't find his way. He couldn't, couldn't read, couldn't, you know, wasn't able to read a map well enough and just gave up and turned around and ended up coming home after two weeks.

3 (13m 47s):
That's hilarious.

4 (13m 48s):
I just gave up on that dream

3 (13m 50s):
Boy. Imagine people today trying to use maps. Isn't that funny? That like being able to read a map kind of went away? Yeah. When I was a kid. Not a kid. When I was 20, well, First of all, when I first started doing standup comedy, I would use one of these things like a legal pad and I would get a phone call, you know, and they'd go, Hey, we got a gig for you and here's your directions, you got a pen? I'm like, okay. And you're like, okay, you're gonna take the 4 0 5 to the this, to the that, to the nine to the fucking, you're gonna take a right on this road, go two miles down the highway, you're gonna find a building. Like why aren't, oh my God. And that's how we did it. So I used to have like a folder where I had the directions to all these different road gigs that were written down.

3 (14m 33s):
And that's how I got around. And then when I came to California, I got a Thomas guide. I was like, wow, I'm in the fucking future. You know, I got a whole book of maps and everybody had a Thomas guide and you would, I remember first time Bill Burr visited my house. He took, he had a Thomas guide. He, he figured out how to get to my house with the Thomas guide. I gave him the address and he showed up with a fucking map book on his front seat.

4 (14m 59s):
Unreal. Those are different now. You know, when I was a, I was a little kid and on our family vacations, my brother, my older brother would be like, he would, he would read the map and like give the directions to, usually my dad was driving. But yeah, by the time I started like working, you know, thank God for that. G-P-S-G-P-S-I can't imagine doing that. Like trying to find my way. 'cause hell I mean

3 (15m 23s):
First time I had GPS it was like 98, something like that. 98 or 99. I had a, it was a like a CD rom that you stuck in in the, the CD player. I had a little flip up screen, I thought like, this is the shit I had an Acura NSX and the little screen would pop up and you put in the CD and it was only for Los Angeles. Yeah. and it was real slow. It was real slow and shitty. But I was like, dude, I'm in a James Bond movie.

4 (15m 53s):
Yeah. 98. That's some top shit right

3 (15m 55s):
There. Yeah. This is Mission impossible. Yeah. Look at this. I'm fucking following the directions on a, I had a little thing that sat on the roof that was like the GPS thing that would like read the sky and then it would somehow or another communicate with this map that was on my, my screen.

4 (16m 11s):
Damn. Yeah. Did you ever miss gigs back in the map days when you're, you know, I

3 (16m 15s):
Was pretty good at it. Pretty good at it. Yeah. I was pretty good at it. And they were, they were pretty good at giving solid directions to retarded comedians.

4 (16m 23s):
Yeah. That's the thing. It's like reading that map and then Yeah. The type of folks that are comedians and musicians we're, you know, are Yeah. We're not the most capable always.

3 (16m 32s):
We're real similar musicians and comedians always seem to like, get along real good. We have like real similar sort of just sensibilities. Yeah.

4 (16m 42s):
Dealing with a lot of clowny shit.

3 (16m 44s):
A lot of clowny shit. A lot of fucking irresponsible, impulsive people. A lot of, a lot of substances, a lot of, a lot of chaos. A lot of fun. A lot of rebels. Yeah. You don. You don't pursue that dream if you've got, you know, a law degree and you know, a future with the firm and you know, everything's lined up. Yeah. And you got your 401k along and it was like, you gotta be a wild person.

4 (17m 10s):
You gotta have a screw loose

3 (17m 11s):
A hundred

4 (17m 12s):
Percent somewhere there's gotta be a screw loose. Or you know, there's some, there's some major, some major issue. Whether, whether they express it or not. And,

3 (17m 21s):
But that's how the great stuff comes. Like, look at Jelly Roll. How do you, you don't get a jelly roll. No. With, with a guy who's had like a perfect education and a well-rounded lifestyle and you don't get that beautiful, amazing, soulful music and that incredible human being. You don't get that

4 (17m 41s):
Outta that. and I don't know him. But, you know, just listening to him talk. I don't think even 15 years ago, jelly Roll could be who he is now. Right. If it would've happened earlier. 'cause he kind of jokes about, you know, like Best new, he got the best new artist of the year and he is like 39 or whatever. Yeah. And he was kind of joking about that. But you know, for him, the time that is the, the right time for him. Yeah. And you know, it's just, yeah. It, everybody has a different path.

3 (18m 9s):
It all aligned, it aligned perfectly. Where a guy like Jelly Roll, especially in country right? You see a guy like Jelly Roll with face tattoos and like gold teeth and shit. Like what? Yeah. Like that guy.

4 (18m 21s):
Yeah. 20 years ago you'd never Yeah. You never see that. But you know, times are different in a good way. In a lot of good ways in country music,

3 (18m 27s):
A lot of great ways in all music, in, in art in general. It's like these communities are sort of colliding with each other and you're getting these sort of interesting mixtures of, of people

4 (18m 38s):
Yeah. You got Post Malone Yeah. In the same country music. Exactly. Covering Sturgill Simpson and stuff that, and it's like, fuck Yeah.

3 (18m 44s):
It's awesome. Exactly. Exactly.

4 (18m 46s):
I watched his, sorry, the NPR Tiny Desk concert and he Oh,

3 (18m 51s):
I didnt see that.

4 (18m 51s):
That's amazing dude. It, it's amazing. Did

3 (18m 53s):
You see Scar Faces?

4 (18m 55s):
No.

3 (18m 55s):
Oh my God. It was incredible. Incredible. Scarface from the Ghetto Boys. No, I

4 (18m 60s):
Didn't

3 (18m 60s):
See his, did a tiny desk concert. Fucking amazing. Amazing. Just like he did it. He altered the music to fit the vibe of this tiny desk thing. Are you you, are you a ghetto boys fan?

4 (19m 15s):
No, I didn't listen to him much, dude.

3 (19m 16s):
When I was a kid. Ghetto Boys with it. Shit. When I delivered newspapers, I used to deliver newspapers. I'd drive around, listen to Ghetto Boys.

4 (19m 24s):
Oh yeah. What he was, he was on here before talking about playing to half million people. Oh, was he, was that one or was that

3 (19m 31s):
Somebody else? No, no. That was be real. That was be real

4 (19m 33s):
From Cypress. I remember hearing that and I. Yeah. I remember like, I'll never forget that when he was telling that story, a half million people at a music festival that

3 (19m 40s):
Was Woodstock. Yeah. Half a million people. Someone stole his shoes. He, he was crowd surfing and someone stole his sneakers off him.

4 (19m 48s):
When you're playing a half a million people and you lose your shoes, whatever, whatever. That's the price you pay for just getting to experience something that God, that's gotta I mean crazy. Yeah. How many people have ever experienced that in

3 (20m 0s):
Her life? I know. Right. That's gotta be nuts, man. That's gotta be nuts. This is something nuts about just enormous crowds, but enormous crowds. Vibing to your music has to be crazy. That has to be really, that has to be so surreal.

4 (20m 16s):
There is a, there's a video that my bandmates were showing me from, I think it was like that nineties Woodstock, the, it might've been the same one, maybe a different day, but it was like Metallica or corn, I think it was corn. and it, that sea of people is, it looks like a sea with all of them like jumping up and down. Oh wow. And the video's profound. Like it, it, it was incredible. don don't know how many, I don't, I can't believe nobody died. Yeah. That's in that with all those people moving. But

3 (20m 53s):
Dave Chappelle and I did the Tacoma Dome once in That's, look at that. That's so crazy. Look at that. Oh my god. It does look like water. Wow.

4 (21m 6s):
Look at that. Wow.

3 (21m 11s):
By the way, that's a really good way to get brain damage. Or I got something in mine. I never used to think of that until I, I talked to my friend Mark Gordon, who's a, an expert in traumatic brain injuries. And he is like, yeah, you're not supposed to be bouncing your head around like that. Like that,

4 (21m 27s):
That I gotta stop doing that. I do that in my shows. I need to stop doing that. I

3 (21m 32s):
Think it legitimately gives you brain

4 (21m 34s):
Damage. I'll start getting punchy and I never fought. It'll be bad.

3 (21m 37s):
Yeah. Soccer players get it, man. Yeah. Soccer players get CTE from head to ball, A soft ass ball, bouncing it off your head over and over again will give you brain damage. Yeah. Jet skiers. You get it from jet skis.

4 (21m 48s):
Oh

3 (21m 48s):
Yeah. Bouncing on waves all the time. Bang, bang, bang. You can get brain damage that way. Damn. Which is nuts. Hard to believe.

4 (21m 55s):
I need to start rethinking my life. Show a little bit. I do that a little too much. Yeah. I just, it's not like, you know, I just feel it. But yeah, maybe I oughta stop doing that.

3 (22m 3s):
Well, I was gonna say about Dave Chappelle and I. We we're, we did the Tacoma Dome, which is 25,000 people in Tacoma, Washington. And we sold out the Tacoma Dome and it was like the highest atten. We broke the attendance record and we're backstage and the crowd is just nuts. And, and Dave's sitting there with a cigarette and he looks at me and he goes, not a whole lot of motherfuckers get to do this. Yeah,

4 (22m 27s):
Yeah. It's like the percentages of people that ever get to experience that. No,

3 (22m 31s):
It's so small.

4 (22m 32s):
And you guys do it with just a microphone that's, that's cra like, damn, I'm one of the least funny people you ever meet. So like, seeing folks that can play an arena just because of your jokes and shit. Like, and your ability to tell a story and the timing and the punchline. That's a, that's something I can never do, never ever do. I have none of that. No talent for that at all.

3 (22m 54s):
It's a thing that you either want to do and have to learn how to do it or you don't, but it's not, it's not outside of, there's a lot of funny people that just don't do it. Mm. It's not a thing that it's, it's, but it's a long journey. Like to get good at standup, it takes like 10 years. Yeah. It takes 10 solid years of constantly performing. And every comic will look at a comic like you, you did, like someone will tell you like, how long has he been doing it? Two years? Like, all right, see you in eight years. Like, there's like a thing, like everybody looks at comics that haven't been doing it any more than 10 years. and he goes, how good is he?

3 (23m 36s):
You know? Yeah. How, what's he got? He got good solid 15 minutes. Like what hap does he fold up when, you know, like what's his bits like? Do they have any depth to them? Them, what's the timing like? Is there any misdirection? Is there any, like, what is the, what's the level that they're at? Because it takes so long, it takes so long. But it's not like singing, like you can either sing or you can't sing. You know, like you have a God-given voice. Like there's people that just can fucking sing, man. They can sing. Like they just have this a, there's a quality to their voice that, and they're just born with it and it's pretty amazing. I don't have that. Yeah.

3 (24m 16s):
Whatever that is, that,

4 (24m 17s):
That's the whole reason I can do what I'm doing. 'cause Didn didn't pick up a guitar until I was 20. Really? Yeah. So I got a late start and you know, I'm not a great guitar player. I'm still very much like an intermediate guitar player. But, you know, I was fortunate enough to, and I didn't grow up singing, so I just found out that I could sing in my early twenties and then realize How

3 (24m 39s):
Did you find out? Like what, what, what were you doing before you started doing music?

4 (24m 43s):
So I was at West Virginia University and I wanted to play football, but I wasn't good enough that I had no God-given talent to be good enough. You and when you want something really bad, you know, it was, that was like my, my first dream that died, you know? And once I let that go, I had all this free time and I was like, I need to, 'cause I've always hunted and fished, but when you're going to the class every day, you can't always, I need more things to fill my time up. So I was watching the Grammys in 2011 and the Avert brothers played, and then they played with, with Bob Dylan and Mumford and Sons and I. Just remember watching them being like, man, that, that's incredible. Maybe I should pick a guitar up.

4 (25m 24s):
That'd be something I can do productive in the evening. So that's how I, I got started and then it was about a year later in 2012 when I actually could like string some chords together. And then I started singing and then I started figuring it out.

3 (25m 37s):
So you initially just started doing it just for fun?

4 (25m 40s):
Yeah. Yeah. It was just gonna be just another, like, just something to get into and, and you know, something, a productive hobby, you know, I was just kind of looking for some more things because since I gave up, you know, trying to play football, it just wasn't gonna happen. You know, all that time I used to spend working out and trying to make that happen, it became free time because, you know, so I just had to try to fill that time up with something. 'cause I just didn't wanna sit around and, and bullshit with my friends all the time. And, you know, so that's how I got into it.

3 (26m 15s):
Was there a thing that made you realize that you could do this professionally? Was there a moment where you figured it out?

4 (26m 22s):
I got, I had a very unique first gig. So I was on the, the Promise scholarship at, at West Virginia. And that was this thing for, in-State kids, if you had good grades, you'd go to school for free at an in-State University. So I was at WVU going to school for free 'cause of my grades. And they had a study abroad program. And my junior year I was like, I'd never been overseas. And I was like, that would be, I'd like to experience that. So I went in to the counselor's office and they kind of laid out some different options. and I got a, a finance degree at WVU and there were four places I could go.

4 (27m 5s):
There's Hartfordshire England, Bamberg Germany, Tartu Estonia, and Hong Kong. So they kind of like, were telling me all about the different schools. and I ended up landing on Tartu Estonia as the place to go to. Wow. So I went over there and had brought my guitar and I just continued practicing a little bit in the evenings just for fun. But I had six flatmates, so there was no way that I could go anywhere and not be heard by them, you know, in, in our place. So I was a little uncomfortable with that 'cause they wasn't used to people listening to me at all. Or, or sing in front of anybody. But I didn't want to like not play the guitar for half a year.

4 (27m 46s):
So I kept doing it. And then when I was over there, we went to a show and one night there in Tar and there was this, this club, and it was like a little, like 150 cap room, maybe 200. And we go to the show and one of my roommates after I left had brought, taken my guitar and after the show was done, he ran up on stage and for some reason the mic was still on. His name was Alam. And he, he ran up there and said, Charlie, come play a song. I was like, fuck no. No way. And then he got the room to start chanting Charlie, Charlie. And then I'm like kind of calculating in my head the pros and cons of like, bitching out or just falling through.

4 (28m 31s):
And I was like, at this point, it'd be way worse if I bitched out and didn't go up and play one. So I went up and played like a song. And was it an original song? No, no. I hadn't started writing then. Didn't have any aspirations yet to do, to do this professionally. What song did you play? Probably Country Roads. Wow. I probably only knew like six songs and I was like shaking in my jeans, just so nervous. But I got through it and then I got a Facebook message the next, that was a Friday. So on Monday I got a Facebook message from a fashion designer there in town, and she asked if I could play for her fashion show that Friday. and I said, yeah, sure. Hell yeah. And she goes, can you fill 20 minutes? I'm like, I I can fill 20 minutes.

4 (29m 12s):
Yeah. So I showed up and it was at this, it's like this, this cafe with like one of those courtyards in the middle of the building. You know what I mean? You ever been in a place like that? and I had these two French doors and they had the sound all hooked up. And a couple of my American buddies that we were over there with me came with me and they got me set up and then it ended up being a lingerie fashion show. So I got paid Is this it

3 (29m 37s):
Right

4 (29m 37s):
Here? That's it.

3 (29m 38s):
Oh, Jamie found it.

4 (29m 41s):
Oh shit, Jamie, don't embarrass me. You're playing

3 (29m 44s):
Play, play. No, no. Lemme here. No, by the way, this is a song you could fucking never write today. Yeah. Hey little girl is your daddy home to go and leave you all alone? Different

4 (29m 59s):
Times.

3 (30m 0s):
I got a bad desire. Ooh, I'm on fire. What the fuck?

4 (30m 6s):
So that's my first gig I made 150 Euro.

3 (30m 11s):
Wow.

4 (30m 13s):
And as they, they'd go in and out, they'd come out with less clothes on each time.

3 (30m 18s):
What a strange gig, a lingerie fashion show. There's little kids there, people are hanging out. Like fashion shows are so strange.

4 (30m 28s):
Yeah,

3 (30m 28s):
They're so strange.

4 (30m 30s):
So I made 150 euro for, for doing those 20 minutes. And I was like, this is the easiest work I've ever done in my life. I'm gonna keep doing this. Wow. So when I came back to West Virginia, I started singing bluegrass music at WVU and, and bars and stuff around town, the state. And

3 (30m 44s):
Did you get any more gigs while you were in Estonia?

4 (30m 46s):
I think I did. I think, if I remember right, I might've played at that cafe a couple more times, maybe Max. but it was really when I came back to West Virginia where I started like,

3 (30m 55s):
You know,

4 (30m 56s):
Really

3 (30m 56s):
Gigging. So that gig that we saw right there, that gig was the thing that started to spark.

4 (31m 1s):
Yeah, it started it, yeah.

3 (31m 2s):
Wow. Yeah. What year was that?

4 (31m 5s):
That was 2013.

3 (31m 7s):
Wow. There it is. Yeah. June 17th, 2013. Yep. Wow. Wow.

4 (31m 17s):
Yeah. And that's how, that's how it, it, it began and, you know, I sucked, you know, because my, you know, I just picked up the guitar and I was just a beginner in the, you know, in the whole business. and it took until 2017. Oh Jesus. More stu videos. Oh, Jamie, you're embarrassing me now, bud. This is, you are gonna make me blush. Nah,

7 (31m 41s):
Fuck.

4 (31m 50s):
Ah,

8 (31m 52s):
Headlights.

3 (31m 53s):
Come on man. This is great. Yeah, don't be embarrassed.

4 (31m 56s):
It's like if you were watching yourself at an open mic.

3 (31m 58s):
Oh yeah. Ooh, I've seen those videos. Yeah.

4 (32m 2s):
So it, it took me until 20 17, 20 18 to find my voice, you know. When

3 (32m 7s):
Did you start writing your own original songs?

4 (32m 10s):
2014.

3 (32m 12s):
Okay, so after your first gigs?

4 (32m 14s):
Yeah.

3 (32m 15s):
Wow.

4 (32m 16s):
Yeah. Yeah. I was playing covers and singing. Singing like bluegrass and stuff.

3 (32m 21s):
Had you had any ideas about writing songs? Had you had ever written any lyrics or had any lyrics in your head or anything like that?

4 (32m 27s):
I started trying to do it when I like really made the decision that I wanted to do this. And I was like, well, you can't do it, you know, without writing your own music, you know. So then I started doing that and that, that was really bad for, for a long time, you know? Well,

3 (32m 42s):
Do you remember what your first song was that you wrote?

4 (32m 44s):
I can't remember what the first one would've been. I know, I remember the third one. 'cause the third one wasn't terrible. and it was actually one that I, I put it on the new album for, you know, just kind of, I, I thought it'd be, it'd be cool to put it on there. That is cool soul like mine. But yeah, most of 'em were really bad and, you know, start working on it and, and figuring it out. What is

3 (33m 9s):
Your writing process? Do you sit with a notebook? Do you just start playing the guitar and start singing? How do you do it? Yeah.

4 (33m 15s):
Sit with the notebook in that voice. The voice memo. And then when I'm out and about though, that note's in Voice memo app. I have 'em separate on my phone and I'll jot down ideas Hum melodies into it and I try to stay pretty consistent with it and, and show up every day and put some, put some thought into it in front of the notebook to, to get my stuff.

3 (33m 37s):
And so do you wait for an inspiration to come to you or just sit

4 (33m 42s):
Down? No, I'll sit down even if I got nothing. Just because if I do that, then I'll find myself maybe going a whole month with without Yeah. You know, I, years ago I listened to Jason, Isabel was giving kind of some advice on it and he said, you know, treat it, treat it like a job, like consistent, you know, show up to the notebook, consistently show up every day even when you're not inspired. And that'll kinda like making your own luck, so to speak. You get,

3 (34m 11s):
Have you ever read Steven Pressfield's the War of Art?

4 (34m 14s):
I did. Yeah. Yeah, I read that. I think last year or the year before.

3 (34m 19s):
He sent us a box of those if you want one. Hell yeah. A sign, a signed copy. Fuck yeah. Yeah. He sent us a box of signed. I think I probably sold more of those books for him than anybody alive. It's a great book. It is. and I don't remember who recommends it to me originally. I probably mentioned it on the podcast and I forgot who it was. But it's one of the best books in terms of like a practical guide to creativity because you really genuinely have to treat it like you, like he considers it the muse. Like there is a muse and you contact this muse. And if you do it deliberately and you do it with respect and you do it every day, the those ideas will come and they do.

3 (35m 1s):
Yeah. They really do come like it's a muse. Like I think there's a reason why

4 (35m 6s):
Yeah. If you don't. And for me, if I don't show up to the notebook and put my time in and come up with a bunch of junk Yeah. I don't think I would have as many of the days where a, a beautiful line or a melody would just pop into my head. Yes. It's like you're, you're just kind of laying, you're like paving the way for those, those more of those sparks.

3 (35m 29s):
That's the same with comedy. Yeah. I think it's the same with literature. It's the same. I think it's the same with everything. Do you know the term museum comes from the term use? Yeah, that's what it's from.

4 (35m 38s):
I had

3 (35m 38s):
No idea what a museum is, is a place where the muse's creations can be exhibited.

4 (35m 44s):
I had no idea.

3 (35m 45s):
Isn't that wild? Yeah. I just found that out recently. but it makes sense. Yeah. And there's quite a few words apparently that come from the origin of the idea of the muse. Yeah. But that's what a museum is. Make sure that's true. I'm pretty sure it's true. I'm pretty sure it's true. Yeah.

4 (36m 0s):
Makes, makes sense.

3 (36m 1s):
Totally makes sense. I mean museum. What does it say? The Greek form museum meant? The seat of the muses. There you go. A designated philosophical institution or place of contemplation. Yeah. but it makes sense. You know, the muse, you, you address the muse. The muse gives you these ideas. You create these things and you exhibit them. Yeah.

4 (36m 20s):
We were, we were driving down from Dallas this morning listening to Willie Nelson's like autobiography and he was talking about almost being like a mouthpiece for the gods. Mm. Like he was saying that all the songs, it was something I'm paraphrasing, but it was like something along the lines, like all the music that he's ever written was in him before he was born. and it was just, you know, his, his task was to just connect with that. Mm. Like what was already inside of him. He was saying that his grandmother like, told him that, that all that that music inside of him was, was, was given by God. It was a, it was an interesting idea on it.

4 (37m 2s):
I

3 (37m 2s):
Thought it's a good way to look at it if you just think that there's an, an endless well of inspiration and creativity that's inside you, that God gave you this thing and you just gotta just keep working and get it out of you and then give it out to people.

4 (37m 19s):
Yeah. And that train of thought helps you when you go, when you're in a rut too. Yeah. If you, you know, you tell yourself, this is what I'm put here to do. This is what I'm meant to do, so I'm gonna do it. Yeah. And you know, I found myself been 2022. That was me. I, I was in a rut. 'cause just a lot of circumstances in, in my life and in my, in my work life had new, new things in it. New pressure that I was having a hard time writing because before I'd just been so free and didn't have people depending on me and all kinds of expectations. And just being reminded by my father-in-Law about, you know, this is what you're put on this earth to do.

4 (38m 0s):
This is what you do best. This is what got you to the show in the first place. Just, just do that. Don't worry about all the other stuff you can't control.

3 (38m 8s):
There's a lot of that with creative peoples. Is this a sort of wrestling match in your mind about, you know, anxieties? What, what you desire, what you hope to happen? You know, what, where is it going? What's the future? How's it all gonna unfold? Do I have, am I run dry? Do I have any more songs left inside of me? Yeah. You know,

4 (38m 32s):
Am I gonna lose it all?

3 (38m 33s):
Yeah. Am I gonna just start sucking? Am I gonna fall off? Is nobody gonna like me anymore? That's a big one. And

4 (38m 40s):
That was happening to me. Yeah. and it was February 22, we got off tour and labels started coming into the picture for the first time. And before that I, I never had to worry about that. And then I had a band that was dependent upon me and they'd given up their jobs. Like they'd gone all in. So they have, you know, their livelihoods were dependent upon it. and it was, it was, it, it took me a lot of work to, to shake all that off and get back to like that, that like clean slate of mind of just writing because I love doing it and that's what I'm put here to do.

3 (39m 17s):
Hmm. Yeah. That, that if you can have like a, a mindset that you could call upon like a, an an understanding, a calling that's in your mind that, you know, like no matter how much confusion there is, no matter how much doubt things go sideways, you're not real sure just stay on the path. Just stay on that path and then you'll have those dark moments, but then you come out of it and you're like, oh, I'm all right again. I'm all right again. Yeah.

4 (39m 47s):
And once you've gone through something like that, it makes you a lot better on the other end. 'cause when you see it again, you're like, oh, I know what this is. Yes. I'm just gonna keep working right through it. And yes, we'll be fine. We're gonna be just, just fine.

3 (39m 58s):
Well that's why like heartache for teenagers is the hardest thing ever

9 (40m 4s):
Did before.

3 (40m 5s):
Yeah. You know, you get dumped when you're 15, you're like, the world is over. It's Dofasting. Yeah. It's fucking Dofasting.

4 (40m 15s):
If I could go back and, and talk to myself as a teenage kid, oh

3 (40m 19s):
My God, I have so much advice. Yeah. I would've so much advice, but I wouldn't listen anyway. My young me was an idiot. He wouldn't have listened. Yeah. I'm like, dude, you're gonna be fine. No, I have to marry her. She's the one for me. I'm lost without her. You fucking idiot. You just listen to too many stupid songs. You're fine. Yeah.

4 (40m 40s):
Yeah. Life is life, you know, life is short, but it's also pretty long. And yeah, sometimes young folks, they, they lose sight of, you know, just how much time there is ahead of them for who knows what's gonna come, come their way.

3 (40m 52s):
There's, there's a song lyric in that life is short, but it's also pretty long because that is 100% true. Yeah,

4 (40m 59s):
Definitely. Good theme for a song there. Yeah.

3 (41m 1s):
Life is short. It really is very short, but it is fucking long. It's the, the the the learning process is long. Oh yeah. It's long. Just figure out life. It's a sludge every day. Every day. It's just like a little more information creeps in and gets sort of like, like accepted. Yeah. Like written in. I get it now. Okay, now I fucking, now I really get it. Now I get it. Get it.

4 (41m 33s):
Yep. And then there's some other little, little aspect of life that comes around the next year. And you learn the hard way on that one. Like, oh shit, I didn't see that one coming. Yep. Yeah.

3 (41m 41s):
Yeah. Boy, that's one of the things that is positive and negative about things like covid, you know, like some major upheaval of everything where the, the whole world just gets thrown sideways. You're like, whoa. The, the negative I mean there's so many negatives, right? Loss of life, loss of businesses, everybody fucking at each other's throats. But on the other side of it and the other end of it, you're like, oh, now I kind of understand people a little bit better. Now I understand why character and discipline is so important in friends and people that you love people that can hang in there and deal with things versus people that cannot adapt and just fall apart and then look for someone to rescue them.

3 (42m 27s):
Yeah. And these, these things, you, you only learn them. There's only one way to learn 'em. You have to go through some shit. Yep. Yeah.

4 (42m 36s):
Yeah. If you would've, if if you would've asked me in 2019 how was I gonna get through and react to what ended up happening there in 2020, you know, I would've been bullshitting you if I pretended like I knew, you know, me too. My wife and I. Yeah, me too. We had no idea until, until we went through it.

3 (42m 51s):
Me too. Yeah. I've always had in my head this thought that things could go sideways and that I, I literally had an apocalypse truck built. I had a a a a Toyota Land Cruiser built with a giant gas tank and all steel bumpers and I. Like, if something gets fucked up, I want something that holds a lot of gas that can go real far and I can drive over hills.

4 (43m 14s):
Did you get like that, that un like bulletproof plating? I didn't,

3 (43m 18s):
I didn't. I didn't. 'cause I, I figure like, if it gets to that, you're kind of fucked. If you're in a goddamn gunfight and you got rubber tires, like you're kind of fucked no matter what.

4 (43m 28s):
Dude, this is a side note, not, not to go too much to the side, but I saw a wild video the other day of these two like armor truck guards in South Africa. Oh, I've seen that. Did you see that? Yeah.

3 (43m 40s):
That's wild. They're trying to take over this guy's armor truck and that how That's good. Were those dudes at keeping their shit together?

4 (43m 48s):
They're keeping, they ke they kept it together. And you could, and you know what was so rare about that video is like, it's just this stable camera on them where you're watching somebody like trying to keep it together Yeah. And keeping it together. Yeah. But that

3 (44m 2s):
This is it right here, there

4 (44m 4s):
It couple years ago.

3 (44m 4s):
Yeah. This is, they've already got the bullet in the glass,

4 (44m 7s):
You know, the, the driver. He's, he's already fighting, you know, in his way. And then you got his passenger there and now he's like, all right. Like you can see it on his face. He's like getting ready to go. Yeah.

3 (44m 20s):
Wow.

4 (44m 22s):
And the, that is

3 (44m 23s):
A crazy video.

4 (44m 24s):
The, that, that truck ends up coming on the passenger side and shooting some more on that one and trying to ram the truck. Yeah.

3 (44m 34s):
Yeah. These guys are trying to take over this armored truck. South Africa is wild. I was looking at this house that's for sale. I was just looking, I, I just enjoy looking at architecture videos. For whatever reason, it's not looking to buy a fucking house in South Africa. But they had this house that's for sale in South Africa, in Cape Town and it's called the Iron Man House. And this house is insane. It's one of the coolest fucking houses I've ever seen in my life. It's insane. It's like Tony Stark's house. Oh yeah.

4 (45m 10s):
On a cliff. Like,

3 (45m 11s):
Like they built this house that I mean, I think it's like $20 million, which is insane in Cape Town, South Africa, you know, and it's just overlooking this thing. But Cape Town is so riddled with crime. Like to have a house like that in Cape Town, you're like, like, Hey, here's where the money is. Yeah. Look at the house. Look at

4 (45m 32s):
That fucking house. Oh my God, bro.

3 (45m 35s):
Is that the sickest fucking house you've ever seen in your life?

4 (45m 37s):
That's insane. It's

3 (45m 38s):
So sick. And it's like overlooking this water

4 (45m 41s):
That does look like the Tony Stark house too.

3 (45m 44s):
It looks better than the Tony Stark. 'cause the Tony Stark house is all just CGI. Yeah. This is real. Does it come with that hot lady? Wow. This hot lady in her underwear keeps peering in all these pictures. Like you can have her,

4 (45m 54s):
It's good way to sell it. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (45m 55s):
She's in every picture. And then she would be here drinking, waiting for you, and then she'd be in her underwear waiting for you to fuck, look, look at this video. Look at these photos, man, it's fucking incredible house. But that, that part of the world is a wild part of the world. I mean there's, I was just in the British Virgin Islands and one of the people that I was with was this lady who was from South Africa and she was explaining to us what it's like there. And she's like, you know, she's like, you know, my generation, it wasn't that bad, but now it's pretty bad. She's

4 (46m 28s):
Like, it's worse now. Vi.

3 (46m 29s):
Yeah. She's like, the violence is just crazy. Damn. Yeah.

4 (46m 33s):
Yeah. I I some country music people tour there. Really? They

3 (46m 38s):
Tour South Africa.

4 (46m 40s):
Kip Moore was there over the summer and I mean it looked incredible for him. But don don't know if I ever find my way there or not.

3 (46m 49s):
It's like the elevated levels of, I guess if you live there, you just get accustomed to it. People get accustomed to everything, but there's elevated levels of risk there that just don't exist if you're in Austin. Yeah. But not necessarily. 'cause sixth Street, where my club is, there some fucking shootings there on a regular, you know.

4 (47m 8s):
Yeah. We, we played, I was opening for a show at Oh that, at like Blues Club downtown back. It was like during Antones. Yeah, that's right. And there was a shooting that night. It ended up being a shooting that night. Yeah.

3 (47m 24s):
It happens like in, in America. Well, shit, in the world you're gonna have violence. And especially it seems like post covid, everything just got kind of like norms sort of dissolved. Reality sort of shifted into this new strange place where things get, they're more heightened tensions and things are more Bazar I think, than ever before. and I think you just get accustomed to that. And if you're living South Africa, I guess you just get accustomed to life in that, that vibe.

4 (47m 56s):
Just dealing with that shit. Yeah.

3 (47m 57s):
Yeah. Dealing with people there. They all have like barbed wire all over their fences and shit.

4 (48m 2s):
Yeah. I can't even imagine high

3 (48m 4s):
Security systems. I mean, I, I would imagine everybody has to be armed also when you kill somebody, you get outta jail pretty fucking quick. That pastorious guy.

4 (48m 13s):
Dude, I saw that

3 (48m 14s):
He's already

4 (48m 15s):
Out. Damn, that wasn't long. He

3 (48m 17s):
Martyred his fucking girlfriend in like 2013, man. Yeah.

4 (48m 22s):
If I were her dad, I'd be How something, what year did

3 (48m 25s):
He kill his girlfriend? 2012.

4 (48m 27s):
Dude, it was like 10 years ago. Something

3 (48m 29s):
Like that. Yeah. I think he did 11 years. Just nine years. Nine years. He did nine years for murder.

4 (48m 36s):
Dude, I got for

3 (48m 37s):
Fucking murder.

4 (48m 37s):
There's people I grew up with that are doing three times that for, you know, an armed robbery when they were 16 or 17, you know, how

3 (48m 44s):
About dudes who are selling weed or still in jail for the rest of their life?

4 (48m 47s):
Yeah.

3 (48m 48s):
I mean, that's one of the cruelest things about Colorado. When Colorado changed over and became legal and marijuana was legal in Colorado was the first state. There's dudes in penitentiaries that could look out their fucking window and see a weed store that's

4 (49m 3s):
There

3 (49m 3s):
He is.

4 (49m 4s):
Jail's a that's a damn for selling weed. That's a damn shame, isn't it? A

3 (49m 8s):
Parole board. Granted Pastorius petition in November on the grounds that he had served half of his 13 year sentence for murdering steam camp, making him eligible according to South African law. Jesus Christ, if you, all you have to do is 13 years for killing people. Boy, there's a lot of people that are out there like, I think I would kill that dude now I'll do 13 years and get him off the fucking planet. There's a lot of people like and him out there wandering around. How many people out there? Like, that's your daughter. That guy killed your daughter and he only did nine years.

4 (49m 41s):
Oh, it'd be a no brainer.

3 (49m 42s):
Look at her. She's so beautiful.

4 (49m 45s):
Yeah, but well,

3 (49m 47s):
I mean what the fuck dude? He

4 (49m 49s):
Still says he's innocent.

3 (49m 50s):
Yeah. He shot her look, he shot through a fucking door and, and killed her. You know, at the very least he's guilty of reckless manslaughter. Like what? You, you, you don't know what your target is. You're just shooting through a fucking bathroom door or whatever he was doing.

4 (50m 9s):
Okay. Yeah. I didn't know if my, I wasn't like relying on my memory too much, but it was a bathroom too, I believe

3 (50m 14s):
So.

4 (50m 15s):
Like who the fuck is he an armed robber is in the bathroom?

3 (50m 19s):
Was he in the bathroom or was she in the bathroom? Was he shooting out of the bathroom? Remember? I

4 (50m 22s):
Don't remember. I feel like I thought he was in the bathroom.

3 (50m 25s):
Yeah, that's what I'm kind of remembering too. He was

4 (50m 26s):
Worried about something else else and that.

3 (50m 28s):
Yeah. Well, but I don't remember. One thing you have to take into consideration if there's a lot of break-ins, if there's a lot of home invasions in an area. Look, we're, my friends in LA are telling me, like I have friends in LA who used to be anti-gun and they're like, why do you want guns? And now they all have guns. Yeah. And they all, they're all terrified. Yeah. And there's not all of 'em, but there's quite a few of 'em that have experienced break-ins. Yeah. and I have one of my friends who just moved to Portugal. He's just like, there's so much shit going down in La I know what to do. and I was telling him, Hey, he moved to Austin. And then I hadn't talked to him for like six months and I sent him a text message the other day, 'cause he loves Korean food. I go, bro, I found a dope Korean food spot in Austin. He goes, Hey man, I moved to Portugal.

3 (51m 9s):
I was like, what? He's an artist. Crazy dude.

4 (51m 12s):
Hell of a move.

3 (51m 13s):
I was like, what did you do? You moved to Portugal. He, it's amazing here. The food's incredible. People are so nice. Crime's low. I have heard

4 (51m 20s):
That. And Portugal's doing this, Portugal's doing the thing where everything's legal. Yep. Is that right? Yep.

3 (51m 25s):
They decriminalize everything other than all drugs did. And they experienced a giant drop in, in murders. A giant drop in addictions. In, in, in crime. Yeah. Yeah. Look, you're not supposed to have things that people want to do Illegal. It's unfortunate. If people want to do things that are terrible for you, it is unfortunate. But you, the, the, the flip side is people are gonna do it anyway. And if you make it illegal, then you're propping up illegal enterprises.

4 (51m 53s):
Yeah. And I mean if I'm just, you know, at the end of the day, I am a musician. don don't know shit. But if everything was legal, somebody goes in and buys whatever drug legally, they're probably not gonna be laced with fentanyl. Exactly. You know?

3 (52m 7s):
100%. Look, you would have more overdoses. You would have more deaths. Like if they just decided today to make everything legal, you're gonna have a spike in deaths. There's no way around that in my eyes. But would you have a corresponding drop in fentanyl deaths? I think you would. So you would have a drop in accidental deaths where people just take a little Molly, they just wanna go to a rave and just fucking dance. And all of a sudden they're dead. You would have way less of those. So that would drop. But you're gonna have people that are just addicted to drugs and they're gonna overdose because of availability. And you're gonna have also people that try drugs that wouldn't have tried them because they're illegal and they don't wanna, they wouldn't know where to buy 'em.

3 (52m 50s):
They don't know anybody who's selling drugs. If you could just go to a store and buy coke, like, oh, what's the fuss about? Lemme try this cocaine out. Yeah. And the next thing you know, you're a Coke addict and you've ruined your life. That's possible too. A hundred percent. But you know that there's personal responsibility. There's also education, there's counseling, there's a bunch of different things that could be set up to mitigate that. and I think that's the better direction for society, better than propping up cartels. And we've got this fucking thing that's happening right across our border where there's immense organizations that have insane amounts of money. 'cause they've been selling drugs that are illegal in America. Yeah.

4 (53m 27s):
They're like warlords. Yeah. I mean legit warlords. Yeah. It's, I the, some of those property owners down there, I don't know how they're dealing with that,

3 (53m 36s):
Bro. I was just watching this video today of this guy who lives on the border. They're dealing with all these people that come across the border that are smuggling drugs and it's, it's fucking dangerous. He's like, you can't approach them. Can't go anywhere near them. You have no idea what they're carrying. You have no idea who they are or what they're doing, or who they work for. And he's like, it's terrifying. They're just traveling across your property with a backpack and, you know, and you just gotta just let it happen. Yeah.

4 (54m 3s):
And two years ago, I played a, I played a show down in San Antonio and a ranch. There was a rancher there at the show. And we were talking afterwards and he said, and this would've been like right around that time, this had just happened. So this is April 21. He said, one of his best friends, who's also a rancher, got a bunch of feds rolled up to their house one day and put him and his family on house arrest for two days without any explanation as to why. And then two days go by and they say, okay, it's all good. You know, we're so sorry for the inconvenience. And the guy's like, whoa, whoa, whoa.

4 (54m 44s):
You can't just, you, you have, you can't, there has to be an explanation here. and I guess and I, hopefully I'm not getting somebody trouble here, but the guy's like, I'm not supposed to tell you this, but we, there are nine insurgents and that we're, that had crossed the border and we, you know, just so happened to get them here on your property. Holy shit. You know, when they, I bet the feds were probably watching them, and then when they decided to, to actually take them, it must have been on this guy's ranch. Wow. So yeah, I mean, you, you got your, your kid, your kids are out maybe doing a chore on the, on your ranch, on your own farm. So Yeah, you got thousands acres or something and who knows what, what you could be running into.

4 (55m 28s):
Have

3 (55m 28s):
You seen some of the recent videos of the lines, the migration lines moving, not just in Mexico. They're moving from South America through Mexico into the United States.

4 (55m 41s):
I saw the ones from like a few years back, but I, dude, I've almost like tuned out. The numbers are insane. They're doing it again and stuff.

3 (55m 48s):
The numbers are insane. Somebody just released a graph that shows the, the numbers of illegal aliens over the last year in comparison to previous years. So it's like, you see the graph and it's like 2014, 2015, 2016, and it gets to 2021. It just like, yikes. Hmm. There's more illegals have made it into this country over the last year, I believe, than are people that live in five different states legally.

4 (56m 18s):
Oh my God. Yeah. Yeah. West I mean West Virginia's got 1.8 million on a real good year. Maybe. It's probably, yeah. A little less than that. And I mean

3 (56m 28s):
There's a lot more illegal aliens every year coming into I. mean, what's the number per month now?

4 (56m 33s):
What's the fix for something like that?

3 (56m 35s):
Well, you gotta fucking have a secure border. Yeah. If you want to fix it, the, it doesn't seem like they want to fix it. Like a OC was on TV the other day doing an interview and she was saying, you know, she was calling 'em undocumented people and the the way to do it is to, to give them a path to citizenship. Well, how about, you know, who the fuck they are? Because if you're a person from another country, say if you're in Europe and you want, you want to come to America and become an American citizen, you know, you're an architect or whatever, there's like a long, lengthy process. Oh yeah. And they only take a certain amount of people every year. And you have to prove that you have a skill. There's a, there's a reason why you should be here legally. Yeah. But if you wanna do it illegally, they'll give you money. They'll give you a cell phone.

3 (57m 15s):
There's people in Mexico, what they're doing is, this is pretty wild because there's a, a radio station in San Diego that is a Mexican radio station. This guy was on the Mexican radio station is explaining how we do it. Mm. He's like, he's gone back four times that month. So every time he crosses over he gets $2,000. He's

4 (57m 35s):
Gaming it.

3 (57m 35s):
So he's gaming. He made $8,000 in a month from the federal government.

4 (57m 41s):
You almost like, what do you do? You set up a 'cause back in the day, you know, when there's, you know, the, I don't know everything obviously, but like, maybe the similar time in American history would been the early 19 hundreds and you had all those Europeans coming over on the boats to, to work over in the us That's

3 (57m 59s):
How my family

4 (57m 59s):
Got here. Yeah. And everybody went through Ellis Island or somewhere like it, where you go in and you got some sort of papers.

3 (58m 6s):
Yeah. It was pretty

4 (58m 7s):
Easy. Honestly, they didn't really check at least though. You know, they, they got you. Like they got, they at least they, they got a name. Yeah. And they,

3 (58m 14s):
Well, not even, they kind of people changed their names. Yeah.

4 (58m 17s):
They changed it right there. If it was like too hard to pronounce sometimes.

3 (58m 19s):
Yeah. A lot of people did that.

4 (58m 21s):
Yeah. Yeah. My bass player's last name got, got fucked with a little bit, I think. I'm

3 (58m 25s):
Sure. Yeah. A lot of people's names got changed. It was easy to come over here back then when my grandparents came here. But, you know, that was the law back then. This is not the law. The law is that you're supposed to go through this process where they vet you and they find out if you're a criminal and they find out if you're a terrorist. And Yeah. They're not doing that at all. Yeah. They're just opening the border and they're essentially buying votes. Yeah. They're, they're doing this. They're, they're letting these people come in and they're assuming these people are gonna vote for the Democrats. And it's wild. It's wild that it's happening right in front of everybody's eyes. And most people aren't aware of it unless they see these videos or like Elon was telling me that when you go there, you really understand the scope of it. He goes, it's extraordinary.

3 (59m 6s):
He just, you, you can't believe the numbers of people that are making their way across. It's just insane. It's just, and everyone knows about it. So all these people that live in these and I don't, I don't blame them at all, man. If you're just a, a regular person that was unfortunate to be born in a, a terrible environment. And you realize if I can get to America, I can feed my family. Yeah. I can get a job, I can work on a farm. I can, whatever it is, I can work in a factory and we could live in a good way instead of being trapped in this hell hole in which we were just unfortunately born in. Yeah, I get it. Yeah.

4 (59m 39s):
You're gonna go for it'll to

3 (59m 40s):
Fuck. Yeah. If I was in Guatemala, 100% I'd have a backpack. Yeah. 100%. I'd be on that on that fucking trek. Let's

4 (59m 48s):
Go. Yeah. If you get up here and Yeah. Get some work and send money home. How many

3 (59m 52s):
They'd be lazy Americans do we have in this country that just fuck off and don't want to do Jack shit? And they're just fucking, meanwhile we got people walking here from Mexico. Yeah.

4 (1h 0m 2s):
Yeah. You see it. And, and that's the thing, like back to the covid thing, man, it it, like, it flipped a switch in a lot of folks heads from one end of that to the other. With, with, you know, I mean if you're not where you're at in life, you know, then you're never gonna get there half-ass in your day. No. Wherever you happen to be, it might be the best idea to like, give it your best. Yeah. And that's the like, or else you're just gonna be a miserable fuck the rest of your life.

3 (1h 0m 35s):
Well, that was one thing that happened to a lot of people that was good. They realized that this job that they had, that they hated, that just went away. Okay. You know, not only did I fucking hate this job, but I thought it was necessary because it was the only thing that I had. and I didn't wanna lose it, but then they just fucking took it away from me. God damnit, I'm gonna go for my fucking dream. And a lot of people did. They went for their dream. They started small businesses, they got their shit together. They lost weight. A lot of people did a lot of very positive things when their back was against the wall. Yeah. And then a lot of people just went on unemployment. And a lot of people never wanted to get on I. mean, I had friends that were in the bar business and they couldn't get people to work. They couldn't get bartenders. They couldn't 'cause people were making more money being unemployed Yeah.

3 (1h 1m 17s):
Taking unemployment. And they would rather live like that. They'd rather get that free check.

4 (1h 1m 22s):
Yeah. They, and that, that was like, you know, I'm, I'm 31 and I released my first album in 2019, but I didn't get booking and management and stuff like that until even after that. So Covid cut the legs out from, from me. Things were just starting to actually look a little bit legitimate, you know, in my life. And, and Covid cut the legs out from under that. So on the other side of that is really where, you know, I could have gone two ways and I went back on tour in the spring of 21, and then I started taking my full band out with me and or a seven piece, including myself and the summer of 21 and I went broke in the fall.

4 (1h 2m 12s):
Whoa. Yeah. Yeah. Damn. I couldn't, I couldn't pay my guys. Wow. One week. and I had my second album, which we made during the covid year, went on pre-sale that next week. And I explained to my guys what was happening and they stuck with me. And once I put the pre-sales up, then I got a little bit, you know, to keep paying them. And we were able to keep working. And then I was bleeding real bad in 21. and it came down to one point in Bloomington, Indiana. We played the Bluebird one night. and I had just gotten a new day-to-day manager, who's, who's done a phenomenal job for me.

4 (1h 2m 52s):
But anyways, he'd just gotten on the job and basically broke it down for me on the phone, how much I was losing per month. And was just saying, he's like, this is, you're, you're, you're going belly up here. This, this is over. You have to cut half these guys. And even then we're gonna have a hard time making it. And after the that gig, we all sat outside in the alleyway and I explained to them what was happening, and they all took half pay.

3 (1h 3m 21s):
Damn.

4 (1h 3m 22s):
So my guys were willing to go $50 a show. Damn. And they were in a hundred percent. They didn't have the, you know, their jobs and stuff back home. They were, they were with me. Wow. And they were game to go for that, which you can't live off that. And we, we kept hanging on there for a couple months. And then that second album came out in November. And we gotten on the road with Zach. Bryan brought us out on the road with them. And, you know, the, the album, it worked, you know, the album, it did great. And we made the most of our opportunity getting to open that tour for him. And, you know, we made it

3 (1h 4m 1s):
The universe rewards that

4 (1h 4m 3s):
I, you know, it, it was that close to just, even if I wanted to, I wouldn't have had money to even put in the gas tank.

3 (1h 4m 10s):
But that's what makes this story beautiful. The terrible story is you quit. That's the terrible story. And you're sitting on the porch one day and you're an old man going, God damnit I think I could have made it. Yeah.

4 (1h 4m 21s):
But

3 (1h 4m 21s):
Those are the most bitter of people, man. Those are the ones that talk the most shit about other artists. You talk the most shit about other people. The people that just have these regrets. The, the failed attempts, the the, they didn't go through the door. They didn't do it. They didn't take that risk. They didn't just run, they didn't just fucking suck it up and try it. That's a scary thing. But if you can get through that scary thing, that's a better life. That's a better life. The, the life of fear and the life of regret. That's a terrible life. That life of wishing I could have the could of life. That's the shittiest life.

4 (1h 4m 59s):
Yeah. You don't wanna be that,

3 (1h 4m 60s):
You know, God damn You don't wanna be that. Especially when there was a spark, when there's some potential. Yeah. Like in, in the comedy world, when you start out as an open mic or you start out with a bunch of fucking mental patients and crazy people. 'cause anybody can go on stage. Yeah. You know, and there's always like one or two guys that you're with or girls and they, they got something. They got something. And some of 'em make it and some of 'em don't. And if there's a hundred of 'em, maybe one of 'em will become a professional. Maybe it's probably not even that. It's probably for 500 open Micers one. Eh, it's probably not even that. It's probably a thousand. For every 1000 open micers that regularly shows up, one of 'em will become a working professional.

3 (1h 5m 42s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 5m 42s):
That can actually sell tickets.

3 (1h 5m 43s):
But man, I have these fucking dreams sometimes where I remember these people that I knew that they had it, man. They had something. They had something. There's this girl that I dated when I was like 21. It was like the last time I ever dated a comedian. But God damnit, she was funny, man. She was really funny. She was really funny. and I remember thinking, damn, she's funnier than me. Like, she's funny, man. She's good. Like she, she could, she had something and it wasn't always, you know, you'd have these open mics were rough, like bad crowds. Like sometimes you bomb, sometimes you do well. But every now and then she would be on stage and she would catch that wave and they'd be like, look at her. Go. Yeah, look at her go. She's gonna do it. She's gonna make it. She fucking quit.

3 (1h 6m 25s):
and I always, I think about people like that. I think about dudes that I knew that had just had it. Man, there's this one guy that I knew from New York, remember the first time I watched him on stage, I'm like, oh my God, that guy's, the next Bill Hicks, look at this motherfucker. Holy shit. Quit, disappeared, went away.

4 (1h 6m 42s):
It's a hard road. Fuck. Hard road to go. Fuck.

3 (1h 6m 46s):
But that's the life of sadness and regret just to fucking not ever go for it's the worst. So that's like the universe gave you a little challenge,

4 (1h 6m 59s):
Man. I was, I was losing sleep, bud. I it was, it was about imagine. Yeah, it was, it was like three fourths of nights. I I was getting up at two in the morning and just,

3 (1h 7m 9s):
God, I could imagine

4 (1h 7m 10s):
I was freaking out. But, you know, I'm stretched out and, and honestly like, I, I love my guys because they went through that with mes. Beautiful. And they're that's beautiful. They're willing to like, stick in there. So that's beautiful. Yeah. I'm, I'm planning on as long as they'll be with me, you know. That's awesome. That's fine by me. We're gonna fuck Yeah. We're gonna do it till we're 90 years old. Like Willie Nelson.

3 (1h 7m 31s):
Yeah. Fuck yeah, dude. Trying to do it. That's amazing. Yeah. Everybody loves. And, and you, if you can hear a story like that, if you're a person out there listening and you're not sure what to do and you hear a story like that, God damnit, go for it. You might not make it, it might not work out. But if it doesn't, guess what? Are you alive? Can you breathe? Can you walk? Well, you could do it again. Try it again. Yeah. Try it a different way. Figure out what you

4 (1h 7m 54s):
Did wrong. And sometimes, and, and this, this is with me. 'cause like, you know, and even though it was a small thing, you know, I wanted to play football for West Virginia and I wasn't good enough. And everybody I grew up with knew I was trying to do it. My whole hometown knew what I was trying to do. And, you know, it was embarrassing, failing in front of all those folks. But once you've done that, once, you know, there's almost a, you, you get a little, you like gain an advantage with having felt that before. 'cause you know what it's like. So if it happens again, well you've already been through it. Right. So if you've never just fallen on your face before, you might be scared to do it, but Yeah. You know, that's something that, you know, so if somebody chases something out there and it doesn't work out, don't view that as a bad thing.

4 (1h 8m 37s):
It may pay off later when you find the next thing. Yes. And you're not scared to go for it. Yes. Because you've already, you already went for this other thing back in the past. Yeah. So, you know, why not go for it? It's

3 (1h 8m 47s):
Also, failure is very important. 'cause that feeling, that sucky feeling of failure is an amazing motivator. So some of 'em, like the big leaps that I've made in my career as a standup all came after bombing. Like, you bomb and you just like, I gotta get to work. Yeah. Like, I gotta figure out what the fuck I did wrong. Why that show went so bad. I gotta, I gotta buckle up and get better. I I really have to fucking focus. I can't be lackadaisical. I can't be lazy. Yeah. I, I gotta get after it. Like that feeling, that horrible feeling that's there on purpose, that's there. It's a, it's a tool. It's like a motivational tool. It's there to let you know. It's a sign. It's, it's a, a very important potent reaction that you have to this bad path.

3 (1h 9m 32s):
You did the wrong thing, you went the wrong way, you took a wrong turn, you fucked it all up. You feel like shit. Right. You feel like a fucking loser. Good. It's 'cause you are a loser. Like right now you're a loser. You don't wanna be a loser. Right. Okay. Get to work.

4 (1h 9m 45s):
Yep. You can't be resting on those laurels, you know? Yeah. You just gotta keep pushing. One of, you know, a really valuable thing. And honestly, I've been listening to this show. This, this show fills a lot of time when I was, you know, on the road all these years. And so I was like a 23-year-old kid driving my old Highlander to gigs. and I listened to this show, and there's can't remember exactly when, and it might have been multiple times, but you'd be talking with like fellow comedians about your all's come up and you were talking about getting the famine mentality outta your mind. You know, you had to figure out that that's a toxic place to be at mentally. Yeah. Isn is letting other people's success like, fuck with you or make or you, you being jealous about it and all that.

4 (1h 10m 29s):
And, and I remember listening to that as a kid, and I hadn't figured that out yet for myself. But hearing that and I was like, oh yeah, that's, that's smart. Just be happy for folks and keep moving. Focus on you. And that was one of the most valuable things that I ever, you know, learn from somebody else was that just to get, get that outta my head that way back at the beginning and just have that like, healthy mindset going into, you know, what is a, a decade long crucible of trying to make it in the music industry. Hmm.

3 (1h 10m 58s):
That's

4 (1h 10m 58s):
Beautiful. Is getting that, that just positive frame of mind where you're just, you're just working on you. And if you see something good happen to somebody else, hell yeah. Good for them. It,

3 (1h 11m 7s):
It's, it can be a positive thing when, when other people succeed and you have that jealous demon gets in your mind, you can turn that around and use that as inspiration. But you have to consciously understand what's happening here and other people's success. That is not your failure, that's their success. And you could use that as fuel. That could be inspiration and it could be entirely positive. And, and it if, especially if you know those people, the saddest thing to me is when there's a friend and one friend has something really big happen, the other friend gets jealous and starts shitting on that friend because of it. and it, you see it in comedy all the time and it's a, it's a terrible mindset.

3 (1h 11m 49s):
And there's the same experience could be approached in a completely different way where your friend makes it and you're like, dude, fuck yeah. God damnit, you did it. This is incredible. Holy shit. You're killing it. I'm so pumped, man. I'm gonna get to work now. I'm gonna, I'm gonna work harder. I'm gonna, I'm gonna carve my path now, now that I know that you did it. And now that I feel that, that that sense that I want that in my life. I want to achieve that. It can be fuel and that fuel is important. It's so valuable. And instead people piss that fuel away as jealousy and bitterness where it does you no good. It poisons you. It ruins you. You are hoping for someone's failure.

3 (1h 12m 32s):
and it is such a terrible weakness. It's a terrible weakness of character that so many people just give into. Yeah. And you don't have to, the exact same experience where someone is killing it can be fuel for you even if you don't like that person. Like, that's the highest level of it. You don't even like a guy,

4 (1h 12m 51s):
You'd still be

3 (1h 12m 52s):
Happy for him. You see they're killing and go, you know what? They fucking earned it, man. They're out there kicking ass. Maybe don don't like their personality. Maybe they're just fucking, they're so focused on success. They're kind of a cocksucker to other people. But you know what, man, look that fucking guy put in that work And, and now he's, I admire that ambition. I admire that work ethic. I I'll embrace that. I'll embrace that. I don't wanna be that person. don don't wanna be a shitty person. I wanna be a nice person. But I, I, I also wanna be successful. How the fuck do I incorporate this into my life? I, I, I need this, this is fuel for me. And to look at it that way. That's a way better way. And it's the same exact experience, the same exact materials.

3 (1h 13m 32s):
But instead of using those materials to like, why not me? Instead you're like, fuck yeah. Now I'm gonna go for it. It gives you positive energy instead of negative energy. It's just a, a mindset that you have to embrace.

4 (1h 13m 45s):
It's huge. Yeah. and I I don, I think without that, I don't know if I would've made it, you know what I mean? It just, those, those years you have got to muster up all the positivity you can. 'cause you are not, you're not getting it, you know, from the bar, the restaurant and the brewery and the cafes and sleeping in the back of your car being broke. You know, folks coming up and telling you to turn it off. I mean, dude, I I mean shit. I had, you know, man. So yeah. That ha having that frame of mind get you through those hard times. Yeah. And the scene, you know, I ca I came up, you know, and, and basically in the West Virginia music scene, there isn't much of one.

4 (1h 14m 26s):
and it was not that it, it was very much the famine mentality. So I got help from certain promoters and venue owners, but other mu established musicians in the state. No. And when, you know, I, I recognized that at the time and I told myself, if I'm ever in, if I ever had the opportunity to, I'm gonna do things differently. And then once I started getting out there into the music world a little bit and actually playing some proper shows, man I was, I was blessed to be, to get to open for very supportive people that that helped me out. And were happy to bring me on the road. That's awesome. And you know, they, they wanted to bring the best show that they could and, you know, I'll never forget that.

4 (1h 15m 9s):
And then I, I try to do that now.

3 (1h 15m 11s):
And who's the first person that brought you in the road?

4 (1h 15m 13s):
The, the first legit shows that I got to play and, and open for somebody, you know, travel and showed a show with them was William Clark Green here outta Texas. I did an East Coast run with them. And William was super cool to me. And, you know, I was nervous going into it. 'cause these are some of my first like actual venue shows outside of my hometown that I'd ever played. I'd only done restaurants and bars before that. and I remember one night, William was like, if you, he told the crowd towards the end of his set, he's like, if, if one of y'all, if you guys buy a piece of Chuck's merch, I'll give you a free cd, like a free sign CD or something like that. So I mean Oh wow. You know, I mean, I think I made like $700 at the merch table that night as a solo opener.

4 (1h 15m 58s):
And man, that was, that was a good night then. That's awesome. Back in that day. And then Ward Davis took me out with him for two years and, you know, get that allowed me to get my feet on the ground and start building a good loyal following. And, you know, ward Ward learned a lot of hard things, like a lot of things the hard way and shared a lot of experience with me, which has saved me some hard lessons. And that's important. And that's

3 (1h 16m 24s):
Like someone who's a mentor that's gone through it already Absolutely. Can give you some advice.

4 (1h 16m 28s):
Yeah, absolutely. And then, and then Zach, Bryan and, you know, and Zach's way just opening up his giant following to, to us and letting us open, you know, three of his tours. Oh, that's amazing. You know what I mean. And, and you know, those, those three in particular like were, were huge. And then I, you know, I've opened for some fantastic people since then. But like, those were the three that were like, you know, William was the first and then Ward was the, you know, ward and Zach were the ones that I opened for the longest. And yeah, it's, it's nice to be in a spot now where I get to pick folks that are coming up that are really, really fucking good.

4 (1h 17m 10s):
That is cool. Get to bring him out on the road and have each show. How do you find them? Just the, the internet, you know, the internet, you know, hearsay and you just hear things about, about folks. One guy that he opened a a west coast tour with this, this summer. And this is like, kind of that, that great example of just like having a good, a good circle of folks that, that you're able to work with Wyatt Flores and why it can't be opening for me now. Like I I mean we did our last show together. He was my, one of my openers at the, at the Ryman. And we did a shot after the second show and I said, now you gotta remember this bud. And remember when you play Madison Square Garden the first time, you make sure you have me and the boys as your opener for, for that one.

4 (1h 17m 52s):
Because you know, just everybody's on their own timeline and why It's just, you know, yeah. His is his is going real fast.

3 (1h 17m 59s):
That's awesome. Yeah.

4 (1h 18m 0s):
And it's great for him, man.

3 (1h 18m 1s):
That is cool. And that, that is where that mentality comes in. That other people's success is not your failure. It's beautiful. Yeah. It's just beautiful. Yeah.

4 (1h 18m 9s):
Yeah. My wife and my kids are fine. My band now, everybody's, you know, they're folks getting married, getting homes, and like, we're good. That's great. Everyth, everything's gonna be fine. We just keep doing our thing. Exactly. And that's the more mind more folks that succeed the better.

3 (1h 18m 23s):
Yes. Yes. And the world needs more great music. It really does.

4 (1h 18m 28s):
Ain't nobody that's only listened to one person. I always say iPod, nobody's got an iPod anymore, but there's nobody that's only listened to one artist in their, on their Spotify or Apple. If they are

3 (1h 18m 36s):
Apple, it's probably a stalker.

4 (1h 18m 38s):
You know what I mean? Like people are, listen to a hundred different folks.

3 (1h 18m 40s):
Maybe Taylor Swift. Taylor Swift might have like one dude out there that only has Taylor Swift songs going 24 7. He's got a Taylor Swift T-shirt. He tucks his dick in his fucking underwear and stands in the mirror and pretends he's her. Oh man. Yeah. There, there's there's a few people out there that might listen. Yeah. God imagine being her security detail. Jesus Christ.

4 (1h 19m 4s):
I'd be interested to hear, hear some of their stories. I bet there's been some, some shit.

3 (1h 19m 8s):
Oh my God. It has to be like, there's I mean in the history of artists. There's only a handful, a small handful that have got to that Taylor Swift level. That's the level where almost everyone goes crazy.

4 (1h 19m 21s):
I don't even think you can count it on two hands.

3 (1h 19m 23s):
Don. Don't think so. No. It's like, there's Michael Jackson, the beat, Elvis, the Beatles, Elvis. There's like a few, but she's in a crazy place, man. She's doing stadiums every night, every night. Stadiums, stadiums, stadiums. They're all, they sold out instantly. Yeah. Tickets go for astronomical numbers.

4 (1h 19m 42s):
And then there's a stadium of people outside the stadium just trying to listen to the echoes Yeah. Of the pa Yeah, that's, that's something I've never seen. Like you see that's, wow. You see some sold out stadium tours and stuff, but You don't see that. Yeah. Or like, it's that overhead and then it looks like the Washington Mall outside of the stadium of folks. Just trying to hear like that, like echo over a voice from a half mile away.

3 (1h 20m 6s):
Some of the first live shows that I ever saw, I was a security guard at Great Woods. Great Woods is this place in Mansfield, Massachusetts. It's this like outside performance amphitheater. And some of the first shows that I ever saw live, first show I ever saw Live was a Jay Gilles band. Maybe, maybe it was George Thoro Good. It was like George Thero Good and Destroyers. And I think that was like the first band that I paid to see when I was a kid. But then when I was older and I worked as a security guard, I worked for this place. So I, I saw concerts all the time. I saw so many different concerts and I remember one time I saw Bon Jovi, I was working the Bon Jovi concert and we were pulling the security truck up and as we were pulling the truck up, we got out and outside of the venue here, shot

11 (1h 20m 57s):
Through the heart. And you're to blame, you give love a bad name

3 (1h 21m 5s):
And everybody goes Wow. And I was like, this

11 (1h 21m 8s):
Is

3 (1h 21m 9s):
Crazy. 'cause it was one of my first nights on the job and I was like,

4 (1h 21m 12s):
Man, hearing that pop for the first time,

3 (1h 21m 14s):
That energy's insane. It is insane. The, the energy of a live show is something that's just 'cause it's not just, you're watching the performance, you're watching it with other people and they're all excited and you feel their excitement and everyone's happy and it's all everyone's together and that fucking Yeah. It's all together. Yeah. It's wild.

4 (1h 21m 39s):
It's a beautiful thing, man.

3 (1h 21m 41s):
Oh, it's so beautiful.

4 (1h 21m 42s):
Yeah. That's, it makes, it makes the travel worth it, you know? Oh, yeah. To have that feeling where you, you got all those folks just like, they're all having that moment.

3 (1h 21m 51s):
The travel's rough

4 (1h 21m 52s):
Together. Yeah.

3 (1h 21m 52s):
The travel breaks you down. Do you do anything to keep the travel from breaking you down? Do you take vitamins, you take care of yourself at all?

4 (1h 21m 58s):
Yeah. Yeah. I do. I I do my best and I'm getting better as, as the years go by, I run just about every day. Oh, the, that's, yeah, it's good. Good for my cardio. I enjoy it. Good for your head too, right? Good for my head. And then, yeah, I take, take vitamins, a lot of vitamin D trying to keep my, my kids are in daycare. Oh my God brother. They're

3 (1h 22m 19s):
Little disease factories. Dude, I've,

4 (1h 22m 21s):
I've been sick more in the last two years than I was the 10 years prior since it's crazy. Since my son first went in. It is, it's like a little Petri dish. Yeah. I'm gonna come out like a cockroach here in 18 years since Oh yeah. I'm,

3 (1h 22m 33s):
You come outta that, you're like nothing to sick iron

4 (1h 22m 34s):
Immune system. But yeah, so I take vitamins. Yeah. I started doing ag one.

3 (1h 22m 40s):
That's great

4 (1h 22m 41s):
Stuff with those, with the little droplets in it too, a couple months ago. Vitamin

3 (1h 22m 45s):
DK two.

4 (1h 22m 46s):
Yeah. and I kind of like, everything's the same except don, don't I My, that afternoon, like I could take a nap. I don't have that when I'm taking that. That's, that's good. That's the big difference I've been getting from that one.

3 (1h 22m 60s):
The hard thing is the diet when you're on the road, that's the hard thing. Yeah. To really make sure you eat clean just as a giant factor in whether or not you can recover. Yeah.

4 (1h 23m 8s):
Yeah. The discipline there after the show is a big part of it. Yeah.

3 (1h 23m 12s):
The Jack in the Box Burger King Pull is strong. Yeah. You know,

4 (1h 23m 17s):
If I had perfect discipline, I'd look like an Olympian, you know, I'd be pretty, you know, I wouldn't be that strong, but I'd be pretty ripped. But we're moving to the bus this year. Ah. So this will be my first year in the bus. And I'm looking forward to that sleep.

3 (1h 23m 31s):
Yeah. I don't know if I could sleep that good on a bus. I won't always worry about crashing. Mm. Because the thing about a bus, if you crashes, like you just falling on top of everybody, it's, you're not even strapped in. It happens too, man. Oh yeah. What? Yeah, what was that woman's name? Gloria Estefan. She fractured her back,

4 (1h 23m 49s):
I think. Yeah.

3 (1h 23m 49s):
Serious accident.

4 (1h 23m 51s):
Hardy had a, had a bus accident I think last year. Oh yeah. And yeah, I think, you know, he, I think it was pretty bad. and I.

3 (1h 24m 0s):
That's scary shit, man. Yeah. and it, you gotta rely on that driver. Stay awake. Yeah. Stay and then who knows what, what kind of fuckheads are on the road doing stupid shit and Yeah. Crashing into things.

4 (1h 24m 12s):
But we've been doing, I've been driving myself, you know, for the seven years and the, you know, with, with my dogs and then, you know, sleeping in a rollout mat in the back of my car. Oh wow. You know, behind venues and then the

3 (1h 24m 25s):
Hard way,

4 (1h 24m 26s):
Three years in the van with me and the guys and driving All day. So, you know, this is the only way I see, you know, me being able to keep my health up for, for the rest of my life is, is getting that sleep. Do you

3 (1h 24m 40s):
Drink?

4 (1h 24m 41s):
A little bit. I cut way back this year.

3 (1h 24m 43s):
You kind of gotta,

4 (1h 24m 44s):
Yeah. Yeah. and I was, I get into the thirties, things started like, sticking to you a little bit more. and I was, I was looking at myself at, we went to the beach back at the end of May and I was looking at pictures of myself. I was like, yeah, that's it. I gotta, I gotta lock this shit down or, or I'm gonna let, it's getting away from me. Well, it's

3 (1h 25m 3s):
Just the fatigue factor, the difference between drinking and not drinking, like, how you feel the next day is so significant. It's, it's hard to ignore, you know, it's hard to ignore that, that fatigue factor. Like you're poisoning yourself every night. Yeah. It's fun. Yeah, it's great. Have a few beers, throw a few shots back. Woo. Have a little party. It's great. Parties are fun, but you are legitimately poisoning yourself and you gotta be aware of what the effect of that is. Yeah.

4 (1h 25m 31s):
And it's not good for the voice either. Oh. I know. Sometimes I'll do four headlines in a row. and

3 (1h 25m 37s):
I also Zach smokes cigarettes like a chimney. And I was like, how do you, how are you doing that? You have this fucking incredible gift, this amazing voice. And you're, you're sucking on cigarettes all the time. Yeah,

4 (1h 25m 49s):
He's a, he's a, he's a pup still.

3 (1h 25m 51s):
He's he is a young boy. He's a young

4 (1h 25m 54s):
Fella. One day he'll

3 (1h 25m 55s):
Maybe, maybe don don't know I mean maybe his voice will change with the cigarettes. Like Sinatra's. Yeah. You ever hear Sinatra when he was young?

4 (1h 26m 2s):
Oh yeah. Yeah. Those early weird, the fifties, like Christmas songs and stuff. It sounds different. It's

3 (1h 26m 8s):
Strange. Strangely different. It's like a completely different kind of voice. Like when he got older it was like this, it was you. I did it my way. But when he was younger it was just like this insane voice. Like this beautiful, you know, he was arrested. I have one of his mugshots out there. You know, I have a whole collection of mugshots out there in the lobby. One of them is Sinatra and he was arrested for seduction. Yeah. I think he banged somebody's wife,

4 (1h 26m 38s):
The wrong person's wife. I guess somebody to like the mayor or something like the police. That was

3 (1h 26m 43s):
What was listed on his, his rap sheet. Seduction. It was seduction. See that? That's true. Right.

4 (1h 26m 49s):
That's an old school law right there.

3 (1h 26m 50s):
Yeah, here it is. Seduction. Let me explain. The year was 1938 years before Sinatra would go onto Star his first movie or release. His first single, he was just 23 years old by today's standards. Shocking that he spent any time in jail for his crime, even though it was less than 16 hours. So during that time period, a person could be arrested for seduction, which was a charge usually given to a man who slept with a woman based on false promises or using some kind of lie. Oh, interesting. For instance, a man could be arrested after sleeping with a woman after a false promise of marriage. Wow. Reportedly Sinatra's ex-girlfriend was his accuser. Oh. So it wasn't a wife. I was wrong. Saying that he promised her marriage and then broke up with her.

4 (1h 27m 33s):
He was,

3 (1h 27m 34s):
You get arrested because you break up with a girl. That's hilarious. Yeah.

4 (1h 27m 38s):
Frank, Frank was willing to say anything to get in that night, next day. Right. But listen to this.

3 (1h 27m 41s):
However, it turns out that she was actually already married, which canceled out the charges of seduction. Mm. That's why I thought it was someone's wife. Even so the state of New Jersey arrested Sinatra and charged him with adultery after learning that they couldn't nab him with seduction. The charges later dropped after he paid a $500 bond. $500 in 1938. That's probably a stiff bond.

4 (1h 28m 4s):
That's a lot of money back then. Back then dude. People buy a house for like 500 bucks.

3 (1h 28m 9s):
Yeah. In Detroit right now.

4 (1h 28m 10s):
Yeah. Right now. Yeah. It's true. Yeah. I thought about that Right as a set.

3 (1h 28m 14s):
See you can find some recordings of Sinatra from when he was young. 'cause it really is crazy when you listen to the difference in that music. The sound of that voice. And that's gotta be like a lot of Jack Daniels and cigarettes.

4 (1h 28m 25s):
I think the, the earliest I've listened to him is maybe the forties. So maybe I, if he was singing in the, in the, the, the thirties there. I'm, I probably haven't heard that.

3 (1h 28m 33s):
It's an incredible voice. It's, but it's so different. It's hard to believe that it's actually Sinatra. 'cause it sounds so young and high pitched. It's just a different, and it had so much range. His voice had this incredible range that all got blunted by the cigarettes. And then, you know, as he got older, it just became, I had regrets, you know, like became almost more talking than the, the vocal range that he had when he was younger. It just kind of adapted

4 (1h 29m 3s):
All the years of kind of like just playing night in night out too. Can can take somebody's range away.

3 (1h 29m 9s):
Oh yeah, man.

4 (1h 29m 10s):
Vocal surgeries and stuff like that. Oh yeah.

3 (1h 29m 12s):
It's Toes Your throat.

12 (1h 29m 17s):
He left 29 Broken Heart.

4 (1h 29m 20s):
That's different. Yeah.

12 (1h 29m 22s):
In 29 parts now there're at 29 fellas complaining to their moms about the lady from 29 Palms.

3 (1h 29m 32s):
Wow.

4 (1h 29m 33s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 29m 34s):
What we got here.

13 (1h 29m 37s):
I've got you.

3 (1h 29m 39s):
So this is, this is the wig days

13 (1h 29m 43s):
I've tried. So not to give in, I have said to myself, this affair, it never will move. So

3 (1h 29m 55s):
Strange times it

4 (1h 29m 56s):
Is looking right at the camera doing the hand work as you're saying.

3 (1h 30m 1s):
Well, you gotta think back then. That's all new. You know, being on television was new.

4 (1h 30m 7s):
He's the fucking man right there. Back

3 (1h 30m 9s):
Then that had never, there was no one on TV before him. It was like, how many, how many years of television even existed before that? Was it 10? You know?

4 (1h 30m 17s):
Yeah. It was like 15 maybe. It was like, was it the early fifties when the Right, when those late shows started.

3 (1h 30m 23s):
Oh my God. And if you go back and watch those, what's crazy is if you go back and watch those shows, especially like the late night talk shows, like the Jack Par show and stuff like that. Like that thing or how you have the desk and then someone sits beside on the couch. They still do it that way today. I know. They fucking never adjusted.

4 (1h 30m 42s):
It's the same

3 (1h 30m 43s):
Weird, it's weird. Like, why do you have a desk? Are you working, are you writing books up there? Like what do you, why do you have a fucking desk? Yeah. Why are you sitting in front of that desk and why? It's just like, that was the Tonight Show, ladies and gentlemen. Hey, have a seat. And he's, you got this guy sitting there at a desk and next to him it's a, a couch. Like this is a Bazar way to do a show. Yeah. But because it was the way they did it originally, these uncreative motherfuckers just kept doing it that way forever. Yeah. And everybody does it that

4 (1h 31m 11s):
Way. Yeah. They still do. The only person like nor McDonald Man.

3 (1h 31m 16s):
Oh yeah.

4 (1h 31m 17s):
Fuck. I'd sit, I'd sit there on YouTube and just watch like his, his like late night show interviews where he's in that situation. He was the man, he turned that in, like, yeah.

3 (1h 31m 27s):
No, he was the man. A few people did it differently. Arsenio Hall did it differently. Arsenio Hall had like seats where they were sitting next to each other. He did it differently. George Lopez did it differently. George Lopez just had like seats. They, they just kind of faced each other.

4 (1h 31m 43s):
Kind of like Letterman's like new show show that he does now. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (1h 31m 47s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 31m 48s):
Yeah. That's, that's a cool setup.

3 (1h 31m 50s):
It's a good setup. The only problem is that way of talking to people. You don't really, it's too performative. There's two, there's people there like a real conversation. It's not, it's not the same. When there's an audience, it's a different thing. Sometimes it's a fun thing like live podcasts in front of an audience. They can be great, but it's a different thing. It's not, it's not the same thing that you get from just sitting in a room with someone having a conversation with 'em. Yeah. Which is the best way to talk to people. Yeah.

4 (1h 32m 21s):
Yeah. It you're, you know, you're getting a little bit of the the public persona. Yeah. From somebody if you're in a theater Yeah. And doing, doing an interview.

3 (1h 32m 30s):
Yeah. I mean, and everybody does it differently. Like Be Real who we're talking about before. He has this show called Hot Box. Is it called The Hot Boxing? No, that's Mike Tyson. Mike Tyson's Hot Boxing. What's b Reel's show that where he, he has this old cool car that they've done up and they got cameras inside of it. Smoke, smoke box, smoke box. And you get barbecued I mean barbecue. It's a place You don't know what you're talking about five seconds ago. And you're, you're on this podcast just getting baked and you're stuck in this car with Be Real. And those guys are the, nobody smokes weed. Like rappers. You wanna smoke? Oh yeah. You ever smoke weed with wrappers?

4 (1h 33m 8s):
No. No. I can only imagine. I was, I ice fishing with Jamie Johnson last week and I was just trying to keep up with him and, and he had me, he had me blasted there. Yeah. So I was,

3 (1h 33m 20s):
It can get, it can get tricky. And I'm sure Jamie Johnson can hang in there too.

4 (1h 33m 24s):
He definitely can.

3 (1h 33m 25s):
I'm sure he could do it. But I, I tried smoking weed with like Snoop and Whiz Khalifa and

4 (1h 33m 31s):
Oh yeah. You're going heavy weights

3 (1h 33m 33s):
Bronson. Yeah. Action. Bronson did the podcast once we had to take a picture of all the blunts that were in the ashtray after the, at the end of the podcast. 'cause it was so ridiculous. Like, how are you alive?

4 (1h 33m 43s):
Yeah. Yeah. Dude, it, some folks that tolerance might, might, I just posted this. It's like the said the first 48 hours.

3 (1h 33m 49s):
Like how many blunts he has in this thing? That's Snoop. Yeah. Oh my god. Third, 40, 30. That's so what an hour. Crazy. When he, when he did this podcast, he just, the whole time he's talking, he's just rolling blunts and he rolls his own blunts. So he is sitting there talking to you and he is just like, we're talking about shit and he's just rolling blunts. Yeah.

4 (1h 34m 7s):
That

3 (1h 34m 8s):
He had a sound machine with him, had like lights and shit. Like, oh, he's such a character. Snoop is an original, he's, that's an original human being.

4 (1h 34m 17s):
Everybody loves him too, man.

3 (1h 34m 18s):
Oh my God. How do you not love him? He's

4 (1h 34m 20s):
A great guy. One of few people in the world where there's like a, there's like a second grader that knows who he is and my mom knows who he is. You know, remember he was

3 (1h 34m 26s):
Doing that show with Martha Stewart? Yeah. and it was great. Yeah. Like what it, who would've ever thought that that teaming would work? That that pair?

4 (1h 34m 35s):
Yeah. Back in the day you'd never see that coming. Well, perfect.

3 (1h 34m 37s):
Worked great.

4 (1h 34m 38s):
She got done dirty back. Did back in the day. I mean

3 (1h 34m 41s):
Shit. They got her, they got her and they put her in jail for the same shit. Nancy Pelosi's made hundreds of millions of dollars for

4 (1h 34m 47s):
Oh yeah. Yeah. Like so many of those folks in Congress in the, in the Senate, they, they

3 (1h 34m 52s):
All do that. I wonder what happened, why they went after her like that. I wonder what the real story behind it was.

4 (1h 34m 57s):
She must piss somebody off,

3 (1h 34m 58s):
Huh? Yeah. There had to be something. It does. Otherwise it doesn't even make sense. Like why would you scalp her? Why are you going after her? Yeah. Martha Stewart. What You don't like beautiful things

4 (1h 35m 10s):
Willie Nelson was saying in his book, he thought they, they came after him. Look at her Still

3 (1h 35m 14s):
Hot. Look at her.

4 (1h 35m 16s):
Woo. Yeah, she looks great.

3 (1h 35m 17s):
2023 looking good. Got on little Ozempic or something. Woo.

4 (1h 35m 22s):
That's that's a thing, isn't it? Yeah.

3 (1h 35m 24s):
It's a dangerous thing to some people. Yeah. Some people. It gives him har my friend Brian got horrible side effects. He was like bedridden. Like for some people, a certain percentage of the people, it affects them affects their gut very badly. Yeah. They get all these gastrointestinal issues and all you have to do is just not eat shit work out. And you could lose that weight. You could just not eat shit. Cut all the sugar outta your life. You'll watch weight fall off your body. Yeah.

4 (1h 35m 52s):
Yeah. There's a, there's another way to do it. There's another way

3 (1h 35m 55s):
To do it. Yeah. But that's not what people want. People want that, that quick fix. You know, especially if you're a weed smoker. If you're a weed smoker and you just want

4 (1h 36m 5s):
'em all the munchies Yeah. You

3 (1h 36m 6s):
Get the mu munchies and it just whew. Especially late night. It's hard. It's hard not to just fatten up.

4 (1h 36m 15s):
Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes at home, man, I'll raid that pantry.

3 (1h 36m 19s):
I'm sure.

4 (1h 36m 20s):
Like, you know,

3 (1h 36m 21s):
It's hard. It's hard. You have to have healthy choices. Like something that you can, that you can eat that you actually enjoy. One of the things I really like doing, like late night after a gig, I like cooking. I'll come home and cook a steak at like one in the morning and I'm like, look, I'm a fucking grown man. I could, I could eat whatever I want. Like, I just cook a steak right now. Yeah. Just cook a steak. You're hungry. Don't just go pour a bowl of fruit loops. Make a fucking steak. Yeah. Like, let's eat something healthy. Let's eat real food. Let's have some vitamins, drink some water. Let's do it the right way.

4 (1h 36m 54s):
Yeah. And that's another thing I'm, I'm looking forward to that bus is just, 'cause you know, we can stash some, some better options on there for, for after a show and Yeah. I think it'll, I think it's gonna help. They pulled

3 (1h 37m 5s):
Over Willie's bust in Texas and arrested him. Isn't that amazing?

4 (1h 37m 10s):
When did they do that? What the

3 (1h 37m 11s):
Fuck? I wanna say it was like 2000.

4 (1h 37m 14s):
Oh, that's fucked up.

3 (1h 37m 15s):
Seven or some shit. 2009. When did Willie Nelson get arrested? It might have even been later than that. It might have been 2013. It was something crazy where the whole world was like, what, 20 20 10? 20 10 85 miles outside of El Paso. Mm. Yeah. For wheat. Willie Nelson. Yeah. What are you a communist fuck is wrong

4 (1h 37m 36s):
With you. Yeah. And that's like, that's like butchering the Texas longhorn like mascot or something. That's, it's so

3 (1h 37m 42s):
Stupid too. Yeah. It's like the dumbest thing to arrest someone for like, Jesus Christ. How are we still doing this in 2024? We're, we're not really like, it's decriminalized in Austin, but it's still illegal in the state of, of Texas. Yeah. It's still federally illegal. Even though it's legal in a, a bunch of states, it's still federally illegal.

4 (1h 38m 1s):
That's a thing in music is, you know, people will stop and and dump it off like in the van. Mm. And stuff like that.

3 (1h 38m 8s):
Yep. Mm. So stupid Kansas

4 (1h 38m 11s):
Too is another one. Well,

3 (1h 38m 12s):
There's a lot of states where when you go through the airport, they have a designated marijuana depositing box. Like, so if you're, you're traveling and you're gonna fly into a state where it's illegal, you just dump it in, in this box. Like in Nevada they have that, 'cause Nevada has these, you know, wheat dispensaries, they have stores now where you could buy it legally. Yeah. So if you're flying to the airport, you're like, all right don don't want to get caught. Dump it in this box. And at the end of the night, I bet those people that work it

4 (1h 38m 42s):
Raid it,

3 (1h 38m 43s):
Raid that box.

4 (1h 38m 44s):
Yeah. Oh yeah.

3 (1h 38m 46s):
Of course.

4 (1h 38m 46s):
Yeah. We're, we're gonna do Canada for the first time this year. And, and that was like a, a thing that our tour manager was telling all the guys, you know, make sure you get your passports going now and like, you know, make sure plan on like not having any weed when we cross the border and

3 (1h 39m 6s):
Well, it's legal in Canada.

4 (1h 39m 7s):
Yeah. But you can't cross right with it.

3 (1h 39m 9s):
Right. You can't cross with it. So, but once you're there, I mean You don't

4 (1h 39m 12s):
Need it. You can buy it there, why

3 (1h 39m 13s):
Don't you bring it with you? Yeah.

4 (1h 39m 14s):
Yeah. They got dispensaries up there.

3 (1h 39m 16s):
Yeah. I remember when it was illegal in Canada and then all of a sudden I went there one year and it was like, oh my god, there's weed stores everywhere. That's how it should be. Should be legal. Like let you don't like it. Good. There's a lot of things I don't like, but it doesn't mean it should be illegal. You don't have to take it.

4 (1h 39m 33s):
Yeah. I was kind of hoping back home they would, they would illegalize it in West Virginia kind of more at the front end of, of the states and made some of that money, you know. Yeah. We needed that. Yeah.

3 (1h 39m 43s):
That's the thing that's really crazy. They're biting off their nose to spite their

4 (1h 39m 47s):
Face. Yeah. Missed out on it. We could have been selling to people in all the border states there for a good handful of years and making good money. But

3 (1h 39m 54s):
Are you living there

4 (1h 39m 54s):
Now? Yeah, I still live there with, with my wife and kids and that's where, that's where I go back to when I'm, when I'm off the road.

3 (1h 40m 1s):
You plan on living there forever.

4 (1h 40m 3s):
I'll always have, you know, my family, we have family land that, that I'll always at my great-grandmother's house. So I'll always keep that. And, you know, whether my wife and I end up splitting time, maybe between there and somewhere else that might happen. But yeah, I'll never, I'll never leave that completely. You

3 (1h 40m 21s):
Feel like it's like in your bones. Yeah.

4 (1h 40m 23s):
I love it, man. It's, it's like my comfortable place in the world. It's like truly, you know, that's nice home. You know, I'm, I'm fortunate to, to feel that way about where I'm from.

3 (1h 40m 33s):
That is very fortunate, everybody.

4 (1h 40m 35s):
That's beautiful. Yeah. Not everybody does.

3 (1h 40m 36s):
It's nice to have a place that grounds you too, where you go back, you're like, I'm, I'm at home base again.

4 (1h 40m 41s):
Yeah. I love

3 (1h 40m 42s):
It. Especially for a guy like you that does the road so much and all the travel.

4 (1h 40m 46s):
Yeah. I like my routine, my small town and, and you know, I grew up with, with so many people I see around on the day to day. That's cool. And, you know, folks watch me grow up, you know, the older folks and you know, they, they know me and yeah. I get to go about my day-today life and it's all very, very normal. Where even in Nashville, it, it's not that, you know, 'cause everybody's in music, so. Right,

3 (1h 41m 12s):
Right, right,

4 (1h 41m 12s):
Right. You got people that, you know, they, they want something from you or something like that. So Yeah.

3 (1h 41m 17s):
That's what I keep hearing about Nashville, that Nashville's become kind of a Hollywood light in a lot of ways. Yeah.

4 (1h 41m 23s):
It, you know, and it's great. I'm just saying. Yeah. There's a lot of people in the music industry, right. And if, if, if you're, if you're in the music industry and, and then you're gonna get people come up and ask you this and ask you that. And at home, there ain't nobody in the music industry, so there ain't nobody that has anything to ask of me. You know? Right. It's, it's just, that's where I'm comfortable.

3 (1h 41m 43s):
Yeah, that's nice. It's nice that someone's not trying to angle on you and just use you for something else, or get to this to you or connect themselves to you or hit your, there's so many social climbers and so many people that, you know, they've got a business they want you to invest in and

4 (1h 41m 59s):
Yeah. You know, I mean, and that's what, when I met you, the, I met you the first time at Two Step in that festival north of, of Austin back in April.

3 (1h 42m 8s):
And that was when Zach was

4 (1h 42m 9s):
Playing. Yeah. and I met you just real brief and like, that was the last thing that I even wanted to come off. That's why I was like real weird when I met you that first time. 'cause it's like, Hey man, it's nice to meet you. I don't wanna bother you. You know, just 'cause I can only imagine what you run into on the day to day. So Yeah. It's just, it's nice back home. I don't, don don't get that so much. So yeah,

3 (1h 42m 31s):
It's, yeah. It's, it's an unfortunate aspect of the life that I have, but it's this life is so for, I'm so fortunate in so many ways. I'm so blessed, I'm so, so extraordinarily lucky that that's the complaint about that. I mostly put it out there so people realize like that's what, that that's something that comes with this. And just, you should know. And if you're on that path to, you're on the path to you. You wanna be in show business, you wanna be in entertainment or if you would just wanna be successful, I think in any business, like there's gonna be people that they pretend when they're talking to you, they don't really give a fuck about you. They're not having a real conversation. They're angling. Yeah. They're just trying to work an angle.

3 (1h 43m 11s):
They're just trying to like, figure out a way to get close to you, to get your number, to get an email address who talk to you about this or that. And some people are terrible at it. They're just like right away. Like, there's a thing that I left you to invest in. It's a new startup that's like, I'd love to show you a doc. Like, no, bro.

4 (1h 43m 27s):
Yeah. The currency of status. Like it's, it's a, yeah.

3 (1h 43m 30s):
I had to have a conversation with guy. This guy kept pushing and I go, Hey man, I don't invest in anything. I have zero. I don't invest in nothing. I got nothing. I have a guy who takes care of like, financial stuff. And as far as like me, like investing in businesses, I do zero of that. Yeah. I don't wanna have nothing to do with that. I don't, I don't want to. Well, you don't even think about it. Well, I'll think about it. I will fucking think about it. If I give you a bunch of money and I'm gonna attach to this company, I'm hoping you run it. Right? Like, what, are you crazy? You don't think I'm gonna think about that Of course? I'm gonna think about that. Yeah. Well, everything will be handled and I don't do that. Yeah. don don't do it. Sorry. Not interested. Yeah.

4 (1h 44m 7s):
Yeah. That's tough. Yeah.

3 (1h 44m 8s):
And some people just don't wanna take no for an answer. They just keep coming back and I and then you just gotta like, okay, I need, guess I need a new phone number now. Mm. So I do. Exactly. I have four phone numbers

4 (1h 44m 19s):
That's, I, it's, yeah, I'm thinking about maybe switching. And again here, you know, here we're like complaining about this stuff. It's not,

3 (1h 44m 27s):
It's the smallest of things. It's the smallest of things. The the, I always tell people that have too much work. I go, listen man, the worst thing you can have is no work. That's the worst thing to have. Too much work is so much better than have no work. To be too busy is so much busy is so much worse than or so much better rather than to wish that you were busy. Yeah. Yeah. If you're too busy, you could back off a little bit. You could take some decisions and go, you know what? I'm wearing myself out. I'm gonna slow down a little, do a little less of this, a little less of that, and you'll be all right.

4 (1h 44m 56s):
Yeah. The, there's something I was like, I would kind of tell myself in the last handful of years I would say yes to mm damn near everything because like, what the story I was telling you about in 21, that's where I'm coming from. So, you know, you say yes so that you get to that point where you can say no. Yes. For the long term. Right. And, and finally this year, like, you know, the, the, the quantity of shows is gonna dial back a little bit. You know, I've already, I've said no to some things that I, I would've dreamed of just having the opportunity to do in years past. But, you know, it's more time, you know, with my wife and my kids and, you know, doing my best to find that balance with the babies.

4 (1h 45m 39s):
And

3 (1h 45m 41s):
Did you take 'em on the road with you at all?

4 (1h 45m 43s):
Ch Cherry pick some, you know, some good ones. They were down here in Texas with me in October. We did Green Hall and we did the, the Texas Motor Speedway before that. And so they, they came down for that weekend. They were in Nashville with me in December, but, you know, not all the time. And yeah. I'm trying to, trying to balance that. Yeah. You

3 (1h 46m 0s):
Don't wanna wear them out either.

4 (1h 46m 1s):
Yeah. don don't wanna wear them out and just trying to have, have, keep some normalcy and routine in their life and hopefully, you know, trying Yeah. Trying to navigate those waters. Mm. And you know, with, with Samantha, my wife, like trying to Yeah. Trying to balance that.

3 (1h 46m 20s):
Yeah. There's like so many benefits to to, to the life that you have, but then there is that the, the time away?

4 (1h 46m 27s):
Yeah. I've been gone hundreds of days a year for years. Whew.

3 (1h 46m 31s):
That's hard. That's hard. Yeah. I mean, I've had these guys on that are WE wrestlers and not only are they gone hundreds of days a year, it is like, some of 'em were doing 2 50, 2 60 days a year, but they're also getting thrown on the tables 260 days a year. They're getting piled, derived and fucking body slammed and like, imagine that. And then you come home

4 (1h 46m 55s):
Every Monday and Friday. Yeah. And then like, you know, the two other ones in the week that aren't on TV. Exactly. Just like 52 weeks a year

3 (1h 47m 3s):
And you come home and you're, you're beat up and exhausted and broken and you're back's in agony and your knees are all fucked up and Yeah.

4 (1h 47m 11s):
Yeah. That's another level that like, back to the, to the like pain pill thing, like the knees and the necks Oh yeah. And things like that.

3 (1h 47m 19s):
Oh yeah. All those

4 (1h 47m 20s):
Guys. And music too. A lot of, a lot of folks, the knees, necks, and backs. Oh,

3 (1h 47m 25s):
Sure. Man. I mean, that's how we lost both Prince and Tom Petty lost them, both of them to Fentanyl, you know?

4 (1h 47m 33s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 47m 34s):
Sad shit, man. Just, and it, with Prince, it was just all that dancing and he apparently he had a fucked up hip for a long time and he was in agony, you know? Yeah. and it just

4 (1h 47m 45s):
Doing all those moves, all those years show after show after show after show, you

3 (1h 47m 49s):
Know? Yeah. I'm from friends with Maynard from Tool and he had to get a fucking hip replacement Mm. From stomping. Yeah. Because he's always like stomping on stage when he's singing. Yeah. He blew his hip out.

4 (1h 48m 1s):
Yeah. If I keep going with my neck, I'll end up having, you know, next stuff. I, I already got this thing that I lay on 10 minutes a day at the end after shows that decompresses all of it.

3 (1h 48m 10s):
What's going on with your neck right now?

4 (1h 48m 12s):
It's just head banging and stuff like that when I'm playing shows. Which, right. But is it fucked up? Ain't good? Nah, I don't, it's nothing serious now that, that's why I, you know, maybe I need to adjust that. And

3 (1h 48m 21s):
How long are you in town for?

4 (1h 48m 23s):
I'll leaving tomorrow. Yeah, tomorrow or tomorrow morning or like later on in the morning.

3 (1h 48m 28s):
What time in the morning? What time's your flight? Nine 30. I want see if I can get you into ways to Well, there's a stem cell clinic in Austin. Mm. And they'll take care of you. They'll shoot you up with stem cells in your neck. Hell yeah. Your neck problems.

4 (1h 48m 39s):
I was trying to talk my dad into that. My dad worked in the mines for 20 something years. Oh, wow. And you know, he, he's 70, 71 now and, and he's feeling all that

3 (1h 48m 49s):
For sure. Is that where minor imperfections come from? Yeah. That's a

4 (1h 48m 52s):
Great song. Yeah. My buddy Zach McCord and I wrote that for our dads. That's a great song. Yeah. Both of our dads were minors and, and that was for him. It's

3 (1h 48m 59s):
A great song. Yeah. Yeah. There that work is fucking insane. That work's insane. Yeah. That's like when people, man, we wanna talk about the hard life. That's, that's the hard life. Yeah.

4 (1h 49m 12s):
Yeah. There, when my dad was my age, from, from 27 to 30, he worked in 26 and a half inches of coal. That's from floor to ceiling. Wow. and it was for a small, so, you know, there's coal companies and then sometimes there'd just be this guy that was a landowner back in the day that would get, you know, the, the right permits and stuff to be able to mine a sea Nicole on some property he bought. And that's what the case was with, with, you know, that job that he had there for three years was, it was like for a small, like, private mine. They weren't using roof bolts.

3 (1h 49m 48s):
Oh my God.

4 (1h 49m 48s):
And so he had, he had Cains before where he, he was digging his way, crawling on his, on his belly, trying to dig his way.

3 (1h 49m 57s):
Oh my God. Yeah.

4 (1h 49m 58s):
Yeah. He did that for three years and

3 (1h 50m 0s):
Oh my God. And he had Cains like that.

4 (1h 50m 3s):
Yeah. It's completely I mean that never fly nowadays. But my dad started in, in the, he was born in 53, so he was started in the early seventies and he went into the early nineties. So he was at that unique time where there was still some of that, that old time stuff. And then, you know, it was transitioning into the, the modern day mines, you know, today where it's just underground cities. Like when he left, he was the longwall boss at federal number two for consol. And that was the biggest longwall in the world at the time. And I mean that, that mine, it stretches like, like over a hundred miles underground, you know, it's from what Western count?

4 (1h 50m 45s):
It's like from Western Mon County to damn near the Ohio River. Like really? Yeah. And that, and, and that's a small hundred miles. That's small compared to what people are doing now. Really? Oh, they got mines in, in like Utah where because of the elevation of the mountains, they, they can almost, they're, they're like drive, they can drive in to a seam of coal and automatically be like, you know, already 10,000 feet underground because of the, the height of the mountain above 'em. And then it's like 16 foot seams of coal and, and stuff like that. Things have gotten, you know, the stuff that my dad started out in is just a thing of the past.

3 (1h 51m 25s):
So when your dad was doing it, he was, would you say 27 inches?

4 (1h 51m 29s):
26 and a half is what he told

3 (1h 51m 31s):
Me. And so you just on your back chipping coal out?

4 (1h 51m 35s):
No, they would've I mean they would've had machinery. They weren't doing that by hand, but,

3 (1h 51m 38s):
Well, so with machinery though, you're crawling on your stomach. Yeah.

4 (1h 51m 42s):
Crawling on your stomach. And

3 (1h 51m 43s):
Then how are you getting it out?

4 (1h 51m 44s):
Would've been conveyor belts or something.

3 (1h 51m 47s):
Oh my god. Yeah. And you're just in that entire enclosed environment. Crawl.

4 (1h 51m 53s):
Crawl. Yeah. I mean All day long. Yeah. I would be freaking out if it was that. Oh my God.

3 (1h 51m 58s):
And then you're dealing with cave ins. Yeah. Oh my god. Yeah. I had no idea that there's mines that are that big, that are a hundred miles.

4 (1h 52m 7s):
Oh yeah. They're, they're huge.

3 (1h 52m 9s):
Is there photos or videos of those

4 (1h 52m 10s):
Mines, stretches, counties?

3 (1h 52m 12s):
That sounds insane. I had no idea. Yeah.

4 (1h 52m 14s):
Like they, they'll keep Yeah. From what I understand, I think we got mines in that start in Western Mon County and go all the way to like Wetzel County, like over close to the Ohio River. They're huge.

3 (1h 52m 25s):
Wow. And, and these massive ceilings and they have lights in there and everything. Yeah.

4 (1h 52m 32s):
You know, lights and guys can I imagine stand like, pretty much stand up.

3 (1h 52m 37s):
Have you seen those

4 (1h 52m 38s):
Mines? I don't know how tall the sea coal was in it

3 (1h 52m 40s):
Had, they've had fires in them since like the fifties.

4 (1h 52m 44s):
Yeah. There's a, there's a town in Pennsylvania. Yeah. I think that, you know, there's like a before and after picture because ended up one, like an old mine ended up catching fire and Yeah. The thing's still like smoking

3 (1h 52m 57s):
Toxic fumes. Like everybody had to move outta the town. Yeah.

4 (1h 52m 59s):
Like 50, 60 years later. Yeah.

3 (1h 53m 1s):
It's still on fire to this day. Just like what, like how much coal's in there? Yeah. The fires are too deep to burn and too hot to be fought effectively. 250 years before what, however, experts believe the fires under central could burn another 250 years for the exhaust, the coal supply that fuels them. Wow. The fires are too deep and burned. Too hot to be fought effectively. That's insane.

4 (1h 53m 31s):
Jamie, if you would check fact

3 (1h 53m 34s):
1962. Wow.

4 (1h 53m 35s):
Fact, check me on like how how long those mines can go where I was

5 (1h 53m 40s):
Just trying to figure out where should I'll, where should I check for?

4 (1h 53m 43s):
Just be like, like long, like biggest minds in the world. Longest minds. Just make sure I'm not talking outta my ass.

3 (1h 53m 51s):
Well it sounds like

4 (1h 53m 52s):
They're, again, I'm a musician at the very

3 (1h 53m 54s):
Least they're huge and

4 (1h 53m 55s):
Just, just this is all knowledge. This is my dad's knowledge that I'm trying to like spit back out. Just make sure I'm not talking out. Yeah. What is the largest

3 (1h 54m 4s):
In coal

5 (1h 54m 4s):
Mines? 10,000 acres.

3 (1h 54m 6s):
Whoa.

4 (1h 54m 6s):
Yeah. That's pretty big. That's miles.

3 (1h 54m 8s):
That's fucking huge. 10,000 acres and it's a mine

5 (1h 54m 12s):
Hobe mine complex.

3 (1h 54m 14s):
Holy shit. Where's that?

5 (1h 54m 16s):
West Virginia. I just tapped in West Virginia. I'm sure there's, there's the bigger ones in Colorado,

4 (1h 54m 20s):
I think. Yeah.

3 (1h 54m 20s):
Do they have footage of that?

14 (1h 54m 24s):
Hold on.

5 (1h 54m 26s):
I mean it's gonna be a lot of underground, so.

3 (1h 54m 28s):
Yeah. But I'd like to see it. I just wanna see what it looks like. 10,000 acres of mines. Holy shit man. That's incredible.

4 (1h 54m 38s):
Yeah, they got some big ones out in Utah. Alabama's got some big ones. I think Drummond knows those one.

3 (1h 54m 46s):
I would've never guessed, I would've never guessed they're that big underground.

4 (1h 54m 49s):
Oh, that's a strip mines. That's

3 (1h 54m 51s):
Strip mines. That's different. That's the like underground coal mine footage. That's a hard life man. That's a hard life. Yeah. And in some places it's the only thing that's available in certain parts of the country.

4 (1h 55m 7s):
Yeah. It was a, it was a great opportunity for my dad, you know, and it allowed him to, to, you know, elevate himself economically in life. Does

3 (1h 55m 16s):
He have lung problems 'cause of it?

4 (1h 55m 18s):
No, no, no. He doesn't. No. He was I think starting in the early seventies, I think they, they figured a lot of that out. Oh yeah. Yeah. I don't think it's, it was as bad then as it was, you know, back in the, the fifties and before. Right. Yeah. I don't think he has any like, long-term issues.

3 (1h 55m 41s):
You know, Sturgill has a lot of people in his family that came from that too. It's like there's, that is just a different understanding of hard work and, and of poverty too. I mean the people that, that when those mines shut down, that's another sort of similar example. Those mines, if they shut down the whole town relies on those mines and there's nothing.

4 (1h 56m 6s):
Yeah. Yeah. You got Ghost towns in West Virginia. You got, did you ever read the book Rocket Boys? No. By Homer Hickum then, then they made the movie October Sky about it. Did you ever watch that? No. What

3 (1h 56m 19s):
Is it dude?

4 (1h 56m 19s):
It's a, it's an incredible, oh, look at

3 (1h 56m 21s):
This. Yeah. Here's Bailey Mine. Look at that machine. Holy shit.

4 (1h 56m 25s):
There you go. Yeah.

3 (1h 56m 28s):
Most that's about And what is, what causes coal?

4 (1h 56m 32s):
It's vegetation and pressure over millions of years, isn't it? Is that what it is? I think.

3 (1h 56m 37s):
Wow. Wow. Look at this fucking life, man. Underground, just using machines to cut out chunks of the earth that people are gonna light on fire and then most people wanna ban that shit anyway. But meanwhile China, we were just looking at Oh yeah. How many, like when people are talking about we gotta stop people from eating meat to save the planet pitch. You need to pay attention to the world. 'cause most of that shit's coming from China. There's more than a thousand coal mines in China.

4 (1h 57m 9s):
Yeah. There's more tonnage of coal being mine now than ever before in, in history. Crazy. So, you know, it's, yeah.

3 (1h 57m 18s):
Yeah. It's a complicated world with a lot of like really narrow-minded narratives. Like a really, a lot of confusing things that people repeat that they don't really understand the, the whole depth to what they're saying. Yeah.

4 (1h 57m 30s):
You could close down all the minds in the United States and that demand for that coal is still gonna be there. Yeah. And it'll just get mined somewhere else. Yeah.

3 (1h 57m 39s):
That's,

4 (1h 57m 39s):
It's not to say that maybe, you know, there'll come a day where coal probably becomes a thing of the past and isn't used anymore, but probably, you

3 (1h 57m 47s):
Know, once they run out of it.

4 (1h 57m 48s):
Yeah. Once they, once they run out of it or, you know, they think of something better, but it iss just, you know, it just isn't

3 (1h 57m 54s):
And then we're gonna have to deal with earthquakes and sink holes 'cause they're gonna fucking carve these huge

4 (1h 57m 58s):
Fucking Yeah.

3 (1h 57m 59s):
Pockets out of the earth and things are gonna collapse.

4 (1h 58m 1s):
Yeah. Yeah. They, you know, at the end of the day, if that's not gonna, that's not gonna solve the world's problems if they just shut all that down in the US overnight.

3 (1h 58m 10s):
I watched a video of a coal mine collapsing in China and it was horrifying. Met my friend Tom Gu and I. We, every day we send each other the worst shit we find on Instagram. It's, it's very traumatizing. It's like, I'll show it to you on my phone after the podcast is over. You're gonna go, what the fuck, man? Every day, every day we send each other car accidents, gunshots, animal attacks over and over and every day, every day. Some new shit. Yeah. And one of 'em was this insane coal exp explosion. This is it. This is it. So these people are working and then

4 (1h 58m 48s):
This Oh my god. Yeah.

3 (1h 58m 49s):
They just get engulfed. Open pit coal Mine collapsed. Four people injured six missing 49 others. Yeah. Don't guess where it

4 (1h 59m 1s):
Just 53 folks.

3 (1h 59m 2s):
They're dead. Yeah. They might be missing. They're dead. A massive landslide. Wow. Yeah. Wow. That's I mean. You're digging into the fucking ground and creating instability. Scary shit. Yeah.

4 (1h 59m 14s):
Yeah. That's, that's, that's insane. Yeah.

3 (1h 59m 17s):
And the people wanna stop coal mining like I understand, but you have to understand how much of that is going on outside this country. And we, we detailed that yesterday. We went to this sort of a deep dive on it that most of it is coming from China. Most of it's China. And then second place is India, United States is minimal in comparison to what's going on over there. And they're not gonna stop. They don't give a fuck. They don't give a fuck about what do you say about the environment? Like what

4 (1h 59m 43s):
Yeah. Over there in Paris, like when they're all having that conference. Like they don't give a shit about it. Yeah. About what they're saying and, and those things. Well,

3 (1h 59m 49s):
It's just crazy when they're talking about climate change and then they cornered Bill Gates like, you fly here on a private jet. Like what? It's like Yeah. I actually have one of the largest carbon footprints. Like, so you're a hypocrite. Like what? It's a big what What's your real angle here, buddy? Like you probably have a business that profits from people deciding to take a green angle and that's really what's going on. He's trying to push plant-based meat and a bunch of other bullshit. And, and that's why it's, it's important for him to get that narrative out there about climate change. Just like during the pandemic, he was heavily invested in mRNA vaccines and then at the end he bailed. He sold all his shares and then started talking shit. Like, it wasn't as effective as we hoped.

3 (2h 0m 31s):
Like what about what, what you were saying in the beginning when you were saying it was really effective and that everyone needs to take it. Remember that? Yeah. Why is anybody listening to that guy either, by the way, when it comes to public health, you look like one of the least fucking healthy people. Alive s like as far as people his age. He looks way older than he should look. He's got a pot belly. He looks like shit. Yeah. Looks like total shit.

4 (2h 0m 54s):
Yeah. And that I mean that vaccine thing. That was a, you know, I, I had to get that, I had to show that to play my shows. Yeah. A lot of people did in 21. Yeah. And you know, I felt like I had to do it in order to work.

3 (2h 1m 8s):
So a lot of people did. A lot of my friends did. They did it 'cause they had to, people were co coerced and then it didn't even

4 (2h 1m 15s):
Work then I ended up getting it. Yeah. Of course. And you know, it was fine. It just, it was like a cold for a little bit. And Yeah.

3 (2h 1m 23s):
It's, it wasn't what we were feared, what we, we were afraid of. And then you realize like, oh, there's a, there's a lot of, there's a lot of motivation that they have to scare the shit outta you. 'cause that's how you'll, you'll do it. Remember when the White House, this is during Omicron, which is like the most mild version of Covid. It was basically just a mild cold for most people, especially healthy people. And the White House put out a release that said for the vaccinated people, you've done your job for the unvaccinated people. You're looking at a winter of severe illness and death.

4 (2h 2m 1s):
Yeah. Which is, where did that come from?

3 (2h 2m 3s):
They're cunts. That's what it came from. You're a bunch of cunts. Yeah. And it's not even true. It wasn't even true. I mean the number of people that are dying from Covid now, like the CDC is like, we need to get, people need to get vaccinated. The C deaths are up. No, they're not. Go look. They're really low. They're super low. And by the way, those people that are dying, they're in terrible shape. They're not doing good already. And most of the people that died even during the pandemic, they, they, they, it was some, someone in the age, someone in the range of 90% of the people that died had an average of four comorbidities. Yeah. Four things that were killing them. And then Covid got

4 (2h 2m 40s):
'em. And then Al also there was the, there was the thing where the hospital had an incentive to say that. Yeah. Covid, you know, so and so died from Covid. Yeah. Yeah. When, who know, you know, my

3 (2h 2m 50s):
Friend's grandpa had some horrible disease and he didn't have Covid. And when he died, he died in a nursing home. They listed him as a Covid death and he was furious. He's like, he didn't have fucking Covid man. They didn't even test him for Covid, but they listed him as a covid death. Get that money. Exactly. Yeah. There was a financial incentive to list people as covid deaths. Yeah. And that's how you inflate the numbers and that's how you motivate people to take that vaccine. Yeah. It's wild man. It's wild what they pulled off.

4 (2h 3m 21s):
It's a lot of goofy shit. And in that, that year, year and a half. Scary. Two years. Scary. Yep. Scary. What happened? The, we, my wife and I talked about it and we drew the hard line with our children. You know, we weren't gonna do that. Good for you.

3 (2h 3m 33s):
Yeah. Good for you. 'cause you know, my kids were being pressured by some of their, their family's friends. Like their, their families. Like their, their kids were getting it. And their, their families were wondering why my kids weren't getting it. I'm like, Hey man, you can go fuck yourself. This shit's all totally experimental. And by the way, the early data, very early on it was shown that it's not dangerous for kids. Both of my kids got it. and it was nothing. I mean nothing. They've had flus that knocked them on their ass. Yeah. And this was nothing like that. Yeah. Kidding. It was very mild for the kids. Yeah.

4 (2h 4m 7s):
Yeah. You get over it just fine. What Tim Kennedy say, my my kids shit it out in a day or something like that. Dude,

3 (2h 4m 13s):
Look, I, you know, obviously I experienced the backlash in the wildest way. 'cause I got, I got Healthy Quick came for you went without the vaccine. But they came for me in a way that was so stupid. It was such a checkers move. It was such a dumb move. Like, because you're going after a guy for taking a medication that worked. Yeah. Like, by the way, it was one medication amongst many medications that I said I took. And here I am three days after this thing that's supposed to kill you. I'm 55. I'm not young and, but I'm healthy and I work out all the time. and I take a lot of vitamins and I'm always fit. and I got over it quick. Yeah. and I was saying, sorry, I can't make the dates.

3 (2h 4m 54s):
It was about a concert that I was supposed to do with Chappelle. We were doing shows that weekend. Like we gotta move the shows. Sorry, I got Covid. I'm fine now. Three days ago I got it. Yeah. And then, then they, whoa. He's taking veterinary medicine. It's like, that's when you get to see how corrupt the media is. Yeah. That they're all on CNN and M-S-N-B-C and all these different shows. Lying straight up lying. I didn't take Horse Dewormer. I took Human Ivermectin that I got from a doctor. Yeah. A doc, a doctor that, by the way, they have prescribed that medication over like, what, 3 billion times for who knows how many people all over the world.

3 (2h 5m 34s):
Yeah. It's on the World Health Organization list of essential medicines.

4 (2h 5m 38s):
Big range of things. Yeah. and I, imagine you got good doctors too. Yeah. No good doctors. I bet you do. You know,

3 (2h 5m 43s):
I got good doctors that are objective that really understand health. Yeah. And they, they're not just about injecting you as shit. They're about staying healthy all the time. Yeah. I mean, I've been preaching the, the value of a healthy lifestyle, healthy diet and vitamin supplementation forever. So when I get sick, I get over it quick if I got sick at all. And that the only reason why I got sick was I was out. my friend John Showman, who's a shout out to my friend John, who is a pool queue manufacturer. and I love this dude. And he makes like some of the best pool cues in the world. and I was in Florida, so I got a chance to see him. And we played pool till like fucking three 30 in the morning and I had like five margaritas.

3 (2h 6m 26s):
That's why I got sick. Yeah.

4 (2h 6m 27s):
We get that run down. Yeah. I was

3 (2h 6m 28s):
Just a little bit. and I was just beat and I was after a show. So I did a show at an arena in Florida so people are screaming. So it's like 15,000 people and I'm in the round and they're laughing. So it's ah, so they just a covid spray. Yeah. You're getting headed your way.

4 (2h 6m 42s):
Getting rained on by droplets was a, was a hot word there for a couple years. and

3 (2h 6m 46s):
I was still fine. I was still fine until I got drunk. I mean I was at the end of the night. I was pretty tired. I was just beaten up from playing pool till three 30 in the morning and then we were drinking and the next day I was like, God, am I hung over, I feel like shit. And then it hit me. and I did a show the next night with COVID. No problem. Killed, had a great time. Yay. See you guys. And then on the way home, I was like, man, I feel like shit. And then I called my wife, I was like, I might have it. I feel kind of shitty. Then I woke up in the morning, I had this, I was sweating, I had a fever. I was like, got tested, got positive, got all the meds, got the IV vitamins. The next day I was like, oh, feel pretty good. And then the day after that I made that video, I was like, yeah, I'm all right.

3 (2h 7m 28s):
Yep. And then they came for me. I was like, wow, you corrupt cock suckers. Yeah. You don't give a shit about health. If you did, you would be saying, Hey look, this guy who's not young, who got covid and is not vaccinated got over it pretty quickly. So look, there's, maybe it's not as bad as we think it is or maybe it's not as bad as you're fit and healthy. Or maybe there's some other options other than just taking this experimental medication that's never been mass injected into hundreds of millions of people in this country. Yeah. But no, they, they were all corrupt. 'cause they're all a part of this industry that was relying on the advertising revenue from the pharmaceutical drug industry. And they were all in the pocket.

4 (2h 8m 9s):
Oh yeah. They jumped in dirty

3 (2h 8m 11s):
People, man. Dirty, dirty monsters.

4 (2h 8m 13s):
Yeah. And they came for it. And you know, most, most folks around the country, you know, a lot of folks, they don't speak publicly on it, but they saw that and knew exactly what it was. And

3 (2h 8m 23s):
Well, it killed their

4 (2h 8m 24s):
Credibility. They said they're, they're, they're going for Joe and then just kept, you know, moved on and never tune in anyways to watch 'em.

3 (2h 8m 30s):
Well there's a lot of people now that will watch those, those news reports on things, especially medical things and go, Hmm, how much are you telling the truth? How much are you tell, how come you guys are ignoring all the deaths? How come you guys aren't talking at all about the vaccine deaths? How come you guys aren't talking at all about the all cause mortality spike That's unprecedented. How come you're not talking about that? Are you guys the news? Are you guys some corporate mouthpiece for some company that pays you exorbitant amounts of money to push their shit? 'cause that's what it seems like. And if that's the case, somebody should probably step in and regulate You cock suckers.

4 (2h 9m 5s):
Dude, I was, I just watched the, that the Netflix short series on the painkiller. Oh my God. It's amazing. I I just saw that and you know, that, you know, that affected West Virginia big time, big time. But I didn't, you know, I, and it was a drama dramatization of, of kind of the, the, the bullet points of what happened there that was Yeah, they're, it's a broken system.

3 (2h 9m 29s):
Well, they're monsters, man. They don't care about death. They care about profit and that is their business. Their business is making money. I mean, there's the, there's the people that make the medication and their business is just make effective medication. They're scientists and then there's the people that are just money people and they're just, their business is to sell it and sell it as hard as they can. And they're incentivized, especially the Sackler family. I mean that family is still not in jail. How are they not in jail? And they spent six, they gave up $6 billion to try to avoid prosecution. But then the Netflix special, the series came out and when that series came out, I believe there was a judge that put a hold on the decision to allow them to have immunity.

3 (2h 10m 13s):
And they were like, hang on, hang the fuck on. What did you do? And when you see what they did, you know, I had Peter Berg on Who made that, that series.

4 (2h 10m 23s):
Oh,

3 (2h 10m 23s):
Okay. He's amazing. And he explained it what they, what they did. And, you know, he, he went into even more depth, you know, like things that he couldn't cover in the, in the series. And it's, it's terrible. It's terrible, awful evil demonic behavior.

4 (2h 10m 39s):
It's that, that off a chain reaction that affected a whole generation and

3 (2h 10m 44s):
So many people died, but the people that didn't die, how many lives were ruined? I, in my family, I have people whose lives were ruined. Multiple people in my immediate, in my close family and my connected family, you know, I know many people who just got devastated by that shit. And they're, they're still struggling to this day. Yeah. To try to get off of it.

4 (2h 11m 6s):
Yeah. That's the kids that I, that grew up in my grade, we've, we lost I think one or two to a couple accidents and then one to cancer and then the rest are all be as a result of, of that. It's fine. Ended up ODing. Did you ever see there's a, a real good documentary on Huntington, West Virginia, I think it was called heroin. No. And it's just like following around the fire chief of, of like Huntington. And she's just going around just per, this is just like a day in the life and she's just going from person to person, you know, oh, d apartment to house, just, oh my God.

4 (2h 11m 46s):
Either saving somebody or finding somebody too late. Just All day. It's a, it's incredible. They did a good job of like showing the reality of it and, and what it does,

3 (2h 11m 56s):
If you talk to EMTs, that shit is happening all over the country. All over the country right now. Still to this day. And now unfortunately, it's harder for people to get the real pills. So now they're getting this, this cartel shit and it's laced with fentanyl. Yeah. And they're all, they're fucking dying left and right. So many people are dying and

4 (2h 12m 15s):
It parents' worst nightmare. That's

3 (2h 12m 17s):
Oh my god, it's so scary, man. Yeah. You know, my comedy club, we, we had to start carrying Narcan, you know, so one of our security guys made it imperative to get Narcan to make sure that, you know, like we should have that on on. Yeah. Fortunately we haven't had to use it. Yeah. We haven't had anybody overdose during a show. But we did have a lady go into a K hole. She, she's taking ketamine, this ketamine for whatever this fucking people that are recreationally taking this insane drug, which is

4 (2h 12m 48s):
You can order that on Amazon,

3 (2h 12m 50s):
Can

4 (2h 12m 50s):
You? I think so. I think you get that on Amazon.

3 (2h 12m 54s):
It's wild.

4 (2h 12m 55s):
Don don't know if they do it. I'm pretty sure

3 (2h 12m 57s):
It's so potent, man.

4 (2h 12m 58s):
Get it like a vitamin.

3 (2h 12m 59s):
And so they're doing like this nasal spray. Oh my god. People are doing nasal spray and it's legal in some weird way. Like it's the, I'm in therapy getting ke therapy and you just get blasted with ketamine All day. These people are ke I know people that are claimed sober. Yeah. But they're on, in therapy and they take ketamine for therapy. Like, bitch, you are not sober.

4 (2h 13m 18s):
Nah, you just, you're,

3 (2h 13m 19s):
You're ca up All day long.

4 (2h 13m 22s):
They're just party in a different way.

3 (2h 13m 25s):
So I, I'm, I have friends that love it. They love it. I'm like, get that shit away from me, man. John Lilly, the guy who invented the sensory deprivation tank. Hmm. Have you ever used one of those? No. Oh, they're amazing. We have one here.

4 (2h 13m 37s):
I show it to you. I'd be interested to, to check that out.

3 (2h 13m 40s):
It's it by itself without ketamine. It's really great. You don't really need ketamine. Yeah. But John Lilly used to do it with intramuscular ketamine. So he would inject his thigh with a blast of ketamine, then lie down and just go into this other dimension and communicate with beings. And, you know, it's like whatever the fuck happens when you take ketamine. And meanwhile people are doing this recreationally at a comedy show and out of the show and, and this lady just fell down and just blacked out in the middle of the show. And they was like, what is Sean? What is Sean? And the boyfriend's like, oh, she took some ketamine. Like she's in a K hole in the middle of a comedy show.

3 (2h 14m 21s):
Damn. Probably while Dunkin's on stage, which is ironic,

4 (2h 14m 27s):
Man. I love Dunkin's cartoon that he had there on, man. It was amazing. Netflix, I love I,

3 (2h 14m 32s):
Don Dunno how the fuck they canceled that. Yeah.

4 (2h 14m 34s):
Me and my band mates like that

3 (2h 14m 36s):
Adventure time. Right? What was that? What was

4 (2h 14m 37s):
It called? Yeah. He just, like, he did a monologue. Is that what it was called? No,

3 (2h 14m 40s):
I can't remember what it was called. No, that was, it's not what it was called. Adventure Time was like the same guy who did it also did Adventure Time.

4 (2h 14m 46s):
The Night gospel. The

3 (2h 14m 47s):
Night Gospel. Thank you. Yeah. Oh my god. Duncan's the best.

4 (2h 14m 50s):
Yeah. And the, the cartoon would just follow, follow his monologue. Yeah. and it was, it was great.

3 (2h 14m 56s):
Yeah. No, it's incredible. He's, like I said, he's such a unique guy and when he moved here, I was so happy. I was so happy. And he's so happy too. You know, Austin's just such an amazing place.

4 (2h 15m 6s):
You made it like a, it's like the episo it's like the center of comedy right now.

3 (2h 15m 12s):
Yeah. We, when we built the mothership, that was the goal. I never thought it would work as well as it did. It was just kind of a like, let's try, let's give it a shot. You know, like, we're here. I'm not moving. I, I got outta California and I'm like, I'm not going back every I got outta California early. I saw the writing on the wall in May of 2020. So the, the country shut down in March. And I was like, well, you know, two weeks the, you know, flatten the curve. And then when it was like a month later, I was like, what the fuck is going on? I'm always distrustful of authority and I'm always distrustful of narratives. I just, I don't, there's just too much bullshit in the world. and I, I've read too many books. Yeah. I've been, I was been exposed to too many conspiracies.

3 (2h 15m 53s):
I went too far down the JFK Rabbit Hole and the nine 11 Rabbit Hole and the, the fucking NDAA and the fucking, the Patriot Act. And and I'm friends with Alex Jones. Right. So my

4 (2h 16m 6s):
Fucking, my,

3 (2h 16m 7s):
My head is, yeah. My head is filled with conspiracies. Yeah. You know, with all this Epstein shit. Alex Jones taught me about that a long time ago. He's telling me about that. And I was like, come on man. You're telling me there's an island where they take elites and they film them having sex with kids. Come on. He

4 (2h 16m 26s):
Was, he was right about that, wasn't he? He

3 (2h 16m 28s):
Was 100% right about that. Yeah. He's right about most things. Al Alex is just, unfortunately, he occasionally goes down the wrong road and he did with Sandy Hook. Yeah. And, you know, and, and so people always point to that, but he's a human being, you know, and people, human beings make mistakes and he made a horrible mistake with that. But he's right. Way more than he's wrong. And he's right about all of this shit. He was telling me about the World Economic Forum a long time ago. I'm like, what power do they have? What are they gonna do? And now you see these fucking people, like you'll own nothing and you'll be happy. Like what? Yeah.

4 (2h 17m 2s):
That, that European guy. Yeah. Lau Schwab.

3 (2h 17m 5s):
We have a photo of him in the bathroom. You've seen it. That's

4 (2h 17m 7s):
Kind of bad. I haven't seen that. No.

3 (2h 17m 8s):
Yeah. We've got a photo of him with the full Darth Vader garb on like what? He's literally telling you what he is at every step. He's talking like this. He's, it's like too much on the nose. Like if he was a bad guy in a movie, you'd be like, that's too caricature. Yeah. No one, no one's gonna be that obvious dress up like Darth Vader talking a German accent and then try to control the world and get everybody to give up their cars and Yeah. And eat bugs.

4 (2h 17m 32s):
He is like a villain in a comedy. Amazing. You know, that goes back to like the, the Bill Gates thing too, where he's jetting around. Yeah. But then he's preaching to you. Yeah. You know, you should exactly do this. You shouldn't do this. Yeah. That doesn't apply to me though. He was preaching about health. Those folks are a big fan of that, aren't they? Yeah.

3 (2h 17m 51s):
They're a big fan of that. A big fan of the doesn't. Yeah. Meanwhile, they were all eating meat. Like one, one of the reports of the people that went to this thing, they're at this conference, they're all eating chicken and steak, and they're talking about how people need to stop eating meat. Like, what the fuck are you saying? Yeah. This is all bullshit. Yeah. This is all just control. Yeah. So the Oliver Anthony song. Yeah. You know? Yeah. That's what it is. He's a great example too, right. Like that guy's first gig that he ever did was in front of like 14,000 people.

4 (2h 18m 18s):
Dude, it like a farmer's market, you know?

3 (2h 18m 22s):
Incredible. Yeah. Incredible. The state fair. I think it was like, or Farmer's

4 (2h 18m 26s):
Market, something like that. Yeah. Yeah. I think it was like a farmer's market. Yeah. Yeah. Jamie was telling me about that. He said he, when he heard about that, he, he, he got over there to, to try to, you know, protect him from what he, what he knew was coming his way.

3 (2h 18m 39s):
Yeah. I helped him too. I got him on the phone like early on. He was like, well, people are telling me that I should sign this. and I, go listen to me, man. Don't sign shit. Don't sign. If they're doing that, they're just trying to catch you when you're vulnerable. They're trying to catch you when you're vulnerable and they're trying to lock you up to some sort of a contract. It's like, well, people are saying that if I don't act now, no, no, no, no, no, no. I go, listen man, you got talent. You're fucking talented. You ain't gotta do shit. You're gonna be fine. Yeah. You got talent. People love you. You don't have to do shit. You don't have to sign shit. You don't want anybody controlling you don't sign any kind for whatever. They're, if they're giving you a million dollars or $5 million, that means they think they can make 10 or 20 and they're gonna make it off of you.

3 (2h 19m 21s):
More than that. More than that. And you're, you're gonna be the one that gets fucked. Don't do it. You, you're the one with talent. You don't need anybody, man. Yeah. You already made it. You already got through. People already realize that rich man from Richmond, Richmond, north of Richmond, that song is so goddamn good. People heard that song and they're like, holy shit.

4 (2h 19m 40s):
Yeah. Connected.

3 (2h 19m 41s):
Connected.

4 (2h 19m 42s):
The just

3 (2h 19m 43s):
A dude with a guitar.

4 (2h 19m 44s):
When you got 10,000 folks that'll come see you anywhere you're at, you don't need anybody. You

3 (2h 19m 49s):
Don't need nobody. You don't want any weasels and vampires like, like Zach's song, cold Damn Cold Vampires.

4 (2h 19m 56s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

3 (2h 19m 57s):
Love that song.

4 (2h 19m 58s):
That's the thing, man. Finding the right people to, to work with, you know? Yep. And it's, it's, honestly, I, it's one of the, the, the biggest pieces of the puzzle. If you find good people 100% to surround yourself with

3 (2h 20m 12s):
100% good and good people in, in the business aspect too. I've had the same manager since I was an open micr. I had the same manager for 35 years.

4 (2h 20m 22s):
That's amazing. 34

3 (2h 20m 23s):
Years. 34 years. I think

4 (2h 20m 25s):
That's best case scenario. You know what I

3 (2h 20m 27s):
Mean? Yeah. I've been doing comedy two years when I met that dude.

4 (2h 20m 29s):
Yeah. Rather than having like the, the coked up manager that's like, oh, don't worry about your taxes, I'll take care of that. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, there's a lot

3 (2h 20m 40s):
You should invest in this company.

4 (2h 20m 41s):
Yeah. There's a wide spectrum. Yeah. And you find yourself with good people and that's, that's, that's half the battle. Yeah. Just having good people around you. Yeah. And you know, it had been, I can, I, I just met Oliver real brief backstage at the Opry just one night. Just said hi. So I don't know him, but I can only imagine what, what? He's gonna be fine. What came his way?

3 (2h 21m 5s):
He's he's a good dude. He's a good solid dude. He's gonna be fine. Yeah. I've hung out with him. He went to the mothership and when Thom girl was there, he went up on stage and performed in front of everybody and they went nuts.

4 (2h 21m 18s):
Hell

3 (2h 21m 19s):
Yeah. They went nuts. It was beautiful. It was beautiful. No one expected it. You know, Tom got off stage, he was like, well, I'm gonna bring somebody up and brings up Oliver Anthony. He went, yeah. They went nuts. Yeah, I bet it's, he's fucking living it, man. It's happening. What a dream I mean. This guy was like selling farm equipment, you know? And then

4 (2h 21m 37s):
Yeah, like seven months ago, whatever, you know what I mean? It's,

3 (2h 21m 40s):
And now he's a, a giant superstar, but he's a cool motherfucker. He's a genuine nice guy. And he's really gotten into the Bible with, that's what's really crazy. This guy was like smoking too much weed, drinking all the time, wasting his life. And then has this like, epiphany of like, giving his life to Christ. And then within weeks, his, this song comes out within weeks and all of a sudden he's fucking huge. It's like he did this thing where it's, it's so cliche. It's like in the movie, like, I am gonna change my ways and change my life. And, and then it all happens right after that.

3 (2h 22m 21s):
Like, it's hard to know what to believe in, but it's hard not to believe when something like that happens. Yeah. You're like, you telling me that's a coincidence? Are you fucking sure it's a coincidence? 'cause I'm not, yeah. I'm not sure. Seems like he's kind of like a messenger, like something connected in him. Like whatever you want to say, whatever you name you want to attribute to it, whether it's God, whether it's love, whether it's the universe, whatever it is. Something got inside of him and he changed his life and he changed his mind and then he started changing the world.

4 (2h 22m 57s):
Yeah. Yeah. And you always also, you gotta be, be aware of anybody that says they know there's nothing. Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah. Like where

3 (2h 23m 6s):
You don't know. There's nothing, nobody knows. There's nothing that's

4 (2h 23m 8s):
Nonsense. Nobody knows I mean. That's, that's it's faith. It's either faith or don't have faith, but Yeah. Yeah. Nobody knows.

3 (2h 23m 14s):
But also, like, you can't dismiss positive experiences. You just can't. You don't, you're You don who the fuck knows what happens when you die. You do not know. And and then when you think about like, the history of the Bible, and you think about the history of the human race, the human race was essentially almost wiped out somewhere around 12,000 years ago. Well, these stories all come from before that these stories were all oral traditions. They're all, they're so similar to like the stories of 6,000 years ago. Like the epic of Gilgamesh is so similar to the story of knowing the arc. There's so many stories that just like, there's gotta be something to this stuff.

3 (2h 23m 55s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 23m 55s):
It it's coming from something. It's coming

3 (2h 23m 57s):
From

4 (2h 23m 58s):
Something somewhere. Yeah.

3 (2h 23m 59s):
And there's so many parts of it that resonate with people still in their core. Like when they think about, like, when they, they have feelings of love and companionship and they see beauty in the world and they have these moments. They say, God damn I know there's don Don't mean to say god damn there, but Damnit I know there's something there. I'm connected to something. There's something there.

4 (2h 24m 20s):
Yeah. And you know, I, I have faith and, and go to church and I, I, I think it helps me, helps me navigate. It helps a lot of people, you know, and I'm not, I'm not pretending to know anything, that's for sure. But, you know, I choose to, I choose to partake. And

3 (2h 24m 35s):
A lot of the people behave I know that choose to partake and choose to behave in a way that that is inspired by that live beautiful lives and I think there's something to that.

4 (2h 24m 44s):
Yeah. Yeah. If, if you're coming from a place of love and Yes. Just trying to, trying to be the best you, you know? Yeah. What, who's the hurt?

3 (2h 24m 52s):
That's exactly how I feel. Can we leave on one of your songs? Can can we? Okay. Let's which one? Let me think. Minor impressions or minor imperfections. Let's leave on that one. That's a beautiful song. That's a beautiful song. 'cause we've been talking about minors. Yeah. Let's leave on that. Can you play that, Jamie? And we'll wrap this bad boy up. Tell everybody how to get ahold of you. Social media, website, all that

4 (2h 25m 19s):
Jazz. Yeah. Charles Wesley Godwin. My website. Charles w Godwin has, has everything anybody would wanna find. All the dates, all the social media, the albums. And do

3 (2h 25m 28s):
You have any dates coming up in Texas anytime soon?

4 (2h 25m 31s):
I think I'm, I think I'm down here with Luke San Antonio and, and August we're playing whatever the football stadium is down there. Oh, cool. I'm, yeah, I'm, I'm one of Luke, Luke Holmes's openers this summer. I

3 (2h 25m 45s):
Love that dude too.

4 (2h 25m 46s):
Dude. He is, he's awesome. He's awesome. We, we played a show way back before. Yeah. He was

3 (2h 25m 52s):
Even, keep playing it man.

4 (2h 25m 54s):
Keep talking. Oh, sorry Jamie. My bad. Let it, I just kept, I kept rambling that

3 (2h 25m 58s):
Let it go.

8 (2h 25m 59s):
Wasn't one talk.

3 (2h 26m 4s):
I'm gonna leave you with this. Ladies and gentlemen. Much love to everybody.

4 (2h 26m 8s):
Bye. Thanks for having me on, man.

3 (2h 26m 9s):
My pleasure.

8 (2h 26m 10s):
It'd be three more. Nine to five. I didn't get it. Every day that man would fight to punch the clock and it home. He's got, blame it on his roots. Call is on his hands, caught us on his boots. He's not one for conversation when there's to do Papa said and get paid and cash company scripts, news folks would, and I.