0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out.

1 (4s):
The. Joe Rogan. Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night. All day,

3 (13s):
Jim Rogan. What's up, baby? How are you?

4 (15s):
It's Good to see you man. Good

3 (16s):
To see you too, my friend. Friend. You look call

4 (18s):
Happy and and refreshed. Well,

3 (20s):
I was on vacation. Yeah. So I went to the British Virgin Islands for 10 days, just chilled. Went to the beach, did some fishing. Wonderful time. Just relaxing. Just relaxing. Do scuba wonderful doe a little snorkeling. Did some snorkeling. Scuba kind of freaks me out. I would do it. But the idea of, of relying on that tank of air and you're breathing under water and you slowly have to make your way to the surface. Fuck. What if some goes sideways? How long can you hold your breath? Jesus.

4 (49s):
You don't go down that far. You, don. It's, I think I'm shocked You don't like scuba diving.

3 (55s):
Oh, it's not. Whether or not I would like it, I would absolutely love it. I'm sure it's a whole different, everybody I know that's done. It loves it. It's a whole

4 (1m 2s):
World. See, I'm more freaked out by what you do if you go snorkeling and you, you smacking your, your, your feet on the water. I think shark's shark, they, oh my God, he's fucking struggling. Yep. I'm gonna get him. That freaks me out more.

3 (1m 17s):
Totally possible. And happened at a resort where Duncan was staying. It was either the week before Duncan was there, or the week after he left. I forget which one it was. But in Maui, this lady got eaten by a tiger shark right out where Duncan was swimming. He was out there at the same resort swimming in the water. And then during the same timeframe somebody got got,

4 (1m 40s):
They're everywhere. They're

3 (1m 41s):
Everywhere.

4 (1m 42s):
But yeah. No, I, I'm not a, I'm not a snorkeling fan, but I'm glad you had, you know,

3 (1m 47s):
I believe a woman just got killed recently or a person got killed recently in Maui. Yeah. Well, I mean really a male. Last week a surfer did surfer, but also the week before that. Well, that's just 22, bro. They're out there. Imagine if like every year people got killed by werewolves, how would you ever go to the woods when it was a full Moon?

4 (2m 7s):
No. No. Especially at nighttime. No. During the day. I would,

3 (2m 11s):
I would go during the day.

4 (2m 12s):
During the day. I'm not worried. I feel like werewolf ain't gonna mess with you during the day. Yeah.

3 (2m 17s):
They'll mess with you.

4 (2m 17s):
You think so?

3 (2m 18s):
Yeah. They'll follow you until it gets dark.

4 (2m 20s):
Yeah. Wouldn't they be, wouldn't they be more excited to freak Yeah. To freakout.

3 (2m 23s):
It depends on, I it depends on what kind of a werewolf it is. If it's a dude who knows he's a werewolf and kind of enjoys it. Yeah. You know, that guy would like pick people to turn in front of, you know, like, come over your house. You know what I mean? Yes. Like, we always assume that the werewolf is this good guy and he gets bit and he's like, shit, I can't believe this. No. And then he turns into this monster. But what if he's a piece of shit? And what if he knows he is gonna be a werewolf? And so he is like, he wants to make it easy. So he just becomes your friend and hangs out with you in the house until the Moon turns full. So this way he is got you in a closed environment.

4 (2m 56s):
That's true. And then he could start harvesting your whole damn family. Yeah. It's easy. Pickens or he brings you all in one at a time. Yeah. Your family live here.

3 (3m 4s):
He's already fucking scouted a house for silver bullets. There's no silver bullets in this house. I'm good.

4 (3m 9s):
That's cynical.

3 (3m 11s):
Yeah.

4 (3m 11s):
But that's a werewolf.

3 (3m 12s):
Well, that's human beings too, right? If you think about you, right. Someone's decision. If someone makes a decision to go to war, right. If someone makes a decision to go and think about it, they use propaganda. They'll use a false flag, they'll use misinformation, control of the media and get a war going that isn't really necessary. And how many people die from that? Right. And so they just make this decision. They make this decision knowing that a bunch of people are gonna die. That could be avoided. But if they do do it, it's gonna be very profitable and you can justify doing it. And so they do it. That's werewolf shit, right? Isn. That werewolf.

4 (3m 50s):
That is werewolf. You know what that is? Werewolf shit. Yeah.

3 (3m 53s):
That's the evil werewolf shit. That's the, the conniving, manipulative, all knowing exactly what they're doing. Werewolf

4 (4m 1s):
That stuff. Now listen, like I'm trying, like, I think about that a lot. I do think about that a lot. and I go, that's, that is the purest form of evil. It's almost like when we were in school, when we were messing around in school, it, but on a whole fucked up level when we were messing around in school and you want two people to fight. You can easily get dude a guy quotes. Oh

3 (4m 25s):
Yeah.

4 (4m 26s):
He calls your mother whore.

3 (4m 27s):
Yeah. Easy. So you move

4 (4m 29s):
Stupid news to, and then you get these two to fight. These guys are doing it on a fucked up level. But here's what's weirder. Even though you tell people that, and you explain that they'll, they still won't react to it, but they'll react to like, we got the gun law, and, and you know what? It's my body. It is my choice. Yeah. They'll lose their mind like that. Which, which I'm not debating, but it's amazing how much energy and how much planning will go into that. But when you realize werewolves, I like the term werewolf. Yeah.

3 (5m 7s):
Werewolves.

4 (5m 8s):
Werewolves that sit and plot and think out how they're gonna murder. Yeah. Millions. And then not only murder, but then like

3 (5m 16s):
Steal, steal the resources. Steal

4 (5m 19s):
And then take over. Yeah. And demonize and put

3 (5m 22s):
Little puppet dictators. And this guys

4 (5m 25s):
Deserved it.

3 (5m 26s):
You know, they'll, they'll, they know

4 (5m 27s):
The way they wear their

3 (5m 28s):
Sheets, they'll take out democratically elected officials and they replace 'em with dictators that they support. Right.

4 (5m 36s):
Wild. Dude. I want to, you know what, listen, this freaked me out. This freaked me out a little bit. So I student, I would do this bit with fucking Mua Dfi. Right? Mua dfi. and it was true. I did this fake bomb thing and everyone always say, ah, mua, dfi blah, blah. And then I found out, 'cause you remember growing up that whole thing with Libya?

3 (6m 3s):
Yeah.

4 (6m 3s):
And you were like,

5 (6m 5s):
Mo Dfi, he's fucking, he is a werewolf. He's, we gotta kill him. He shot six missiles outta us plane.

4 (6m 15s):
And we, and we fucking bombed him. And then Clinton came in, killed him. Took him out. Right.

3 (6m 23s):
Well, it was during the Obama administration, wasn't it? That he got killed? I believe it was when Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State, that they, they overthrew Libya. Was that, is that the case? Jamie's gonna Google it.

4 (6m 35s):
So I see

5 (6m 37s):
2011.

3 (6m 38s):
But there was like some sh there was, there's always some financial shit to these things. It's always like trying to get off the US dollar or someone, someone does something crafty. Well,

4 (6m 47s):
Check this out. So I, you know, I see Farrakhan, you know, white people meet like,

5 (6m 53s):
God devil, black guy hates white paper. You know, whatever. They can't.

4 (6m 58s):
They already write 'em off. Right. But I'm listening to him and he starts talking about why they killed Mua. A dfi and, and I, I'm dumb as a rock that you know, that by now. Basically he was saying, we are not gonna need the banking system. We're not gonna need your system, your dollar. We're gonna, we, we got our own. Everyone here educated, no homeless people. We pay for everything. We pay for medical, we share a revenue, and we're gonna start uniting the whole continent. I was like, what? He goes, that's why they killed him. And he goes on and on and on, dude, on my life.

4 (7m 41s):
So last year I went to Tanzania. Right. And, you know, I'm talking to the people there and I just start going, Hey, it was me. You know Vinny brand? Yeah. I was with Vinny. Brand. Brand. I'm on safari. She, she gotta go. Alright. So we're hanging out there and he, the guy goes, I go, Hey man, remember we're talking about a lot of things. We're talking about a lot of things going in America, but one of the things we hit is Libya. Mua. dfi. What'd you think of? Mua? dfi and all of them,

5 (8m 12s):
They were like, oh

4 (8m 13s):
Yeah, great African, great African, great African. I'm like, really? Yeah. We were told, he was like, this monster, this terrorist. Like we, we, we bombed him. We were like cheering that we bombed him. And they were, I said, why were they, why was he so good? He goes, he's good to the, all the Africans. He, he, he gave us, he gave us education. He gave us water. He gave us all our needs. And, and, and if we couldn't get it here, and we went somewhere else, we'd, we'd do it for him. He was, he's very good for Africa. I said, what happened since he left on my kids' lives, this guy goes, Libya, worse sex trafficking.

4 (8m 54s):
The worst sex trafficking. So that fucked me. So now think about that. We demonized his place and we were told one thing. I'm not saying that's not what it was. What I'm saying is like, what really

3 (9m 10s):
Happened? Well the, the First of all the state collapsed. And when the state collapses, criminals takeover. And one of the things that you saw in Libya at one point in time, although I did get some messages through a friend of mine, that some Libyan people wanted me to know that Libya, like the cities in Libya have recovered. They're not like, as crazy as they were. You know, that might be national pride that they're saying this. I don't know. I know. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know what the story is. Yeah. Maybe they're much better. Maybe they're judging it on a scale or whatever it was. But there's, there was YouTube videos of open air slavery. So you'd watch people bid on people and you could watch it on YouTube. And that was in Libya. That was after they killed Kaddafi.

3 (9m 52s):
Did you ever see the, the video footage of them killing him?

4 (9m 55s):
No. Oh.

3 (9m 57s):
Oh. You have to see it did. When the rebels grab hold of Kaddafi and they realize they have him and he realizes that they have him. And there's high resolution cameras now, because this was like 2012, I believe some when it was Yeah, yeah. Somewhere around then. It was the end of 2011. Yeah. 2011. You know, you could get like high resolution cameras. And so they're filming this guy who was a dictator for years, and they finally have captured him. And who knows who's funding them? Who know I don? How do they get

4 (10m 25s):
The money? Nobody know. How do they get the guns? Who knows?

3 (10m 27s):
I don. I'm not exactly sure what the conflict is. Right? But I'm just saying the video of him getting killed is fucking terrifying. 'cause there's a look in his face where he knows there's no way out of this. He's trying to figure out a way out of this. Right. And he knows there's no way out of this. And one guy takes a bayonet, like a, a big long knife and shoves it up his ass.

4 (10m 47s):
Oh.

3 (10m 48s):
Just shoves it right up his ass while he's standing there. And he barely reacts. He barely reacts. He's in such shock that he barely reacts to a knife getting shoved up his ass.

4 (10m 59s):
Dude, I remember you one time you said, you said you were talking about chimpanzees, like we're just, it was, it was really funny. But you go, dude, we're just chimpanzees that learned how to talk and lie. You said something like that. It was really fucking funny. I said

3 (11m 16s):
They learned how to talk and lie.

4 (11m 18s):
No, they like were chimpanzees.

3 (11m 20s):
Oh. Who learned how to talk and lie? Yeah.

4 (11m 22s):
Yeah. Now it could be. It could be. But the point of that was it really makes it, 'cause we think we're so far advanced, we're much smarter than anything. Yeah. We're, we're so much better. We're better beings. We're better souls. We are,

3 (11m 40s):
We are. We really are. We have the

4 (11m 42s):
Capability.

3 (11m 42s):
No, we really are. We're way better than chimps. Listen man, if chimps had nuclear weapons, it would've been over a

4 (11m 49s):
Long time, time ago. No, you weren't. Yeah. Yeah. Fair enough. They wouldn't

3 (11m 52s):
Have thought about the future.

4 (11m 54s):
Fuck

3 (11m 55s):
The future. Let's nuke these cunts. They would've just k nuked Everybody. Chip chips are so ruthless. They're so ruthless, man. They don't give a fuck about you. They have no bad feelings. They don't have any like, remorse for fucking people up. They would be the worst.

4 (12m 11s):
But

3 (12m 12s):
What we're way, way, way, way better. We're just not good enough yet.

4 (12m 15s):
But you Oh, sorry. I

3 (12m 16s):
Was just gonna say that we're, we are way better than we used to be. We're way better than cave people. We're way better than people from the seventies. And we have to embrace the fact that like, we're getting better at life. That human beings are getting better at all these things. It's just hard. And the amount of chaos that's going on constantly now is like unprecedented because You don't know what the fuck is true or not. We're somehow or another, you and I, Jim Breuer and Joe Rogan, two guys who've known each other, we're friends for 35 years. Somehow or another, we have an investment in some fucking war that's happening in Russia and Ukraine. And we have to have a, we have to have a side. We have to pick, we have to figure out what's true and what's not. We have to wade through all the how much money we have to go what?

3 (12m 60s):
Right. How much money. There's n there's no way that you know where all that money's going. There's no way.

4 (13m 7s):
Well, none that. It's like,

3 (13m 9s):
How much money,

4 (13m 10s):
How crazy do you have to be at this point in your life? Where like, is there anyone walking down the street going, we really, really gotta fucking stop rushing from killing the you. We gotta like, who the fuck is still thinking that way? It's mind boggling to me. Well,

3 (13m 30s):
We, we can't be the policeman of the world, but we should do what we can to stop people that are doing something that's horrific. But we also shouldn't be involved in things that are violating agreements where we're like pushing arms closer and closer to Russia's border. Like all these things are true. So it's like all these things you true simultaneously and everybody wants only one side to be true. Yeah. Right. That's all they want. They want their position to be correct. It's not no. This, that thing. It's not that Russia thing is messy Of course. It's horrible that Russia attacked Ukraine. But also it's kind of fucked that NATO kept fucking with these guys and trying to bring them in and moving arms closer to Russia.

4 (14m 11s):
Or it's just like, Hey man, I, I get you guys are got you little toys and stuff. Just do me a favor. Let's have an agreement. Don't go past here. Right? Yeah. You guys promise we'll shake on it. We'll shake on it. You wanna sign? Let's sign. And then a month later they're like, dude, why are you moving the, I thought we agreed. We just werewolves, werewolves,

3 (14m 34s):
Werewolves, werewolves.

4 (14m 35s):
Now you just said we're not that far off from monkeys. And then 10 minutes before that you talked about the guy shoving a fucking Yeah.

3 (14m 43s):
You know what Jims would've done to Jim's? Barbaric. Jims would've been way worse. Jims would've gone fingers first just start chopping off fingers. They would've bit his dick off.

4 (14m 53s):
No, you're right. They would bit

3 (14m 54s):
His, his dick off chip would've would've been more wor the knife up the asshole is probably the best way for that guy to go. Well, I think we're still way better than, than what we used to be. We're ba way better than lower primates. But I think is, we're in the process of reaching another level. and I think it's very messy and very complicated. And that's where all this AI comes in. And that's where the internet comes in. That's where social media comes in. That's where all this outrage culture comes in. It comes in from an unprecedented amount of opinions. It's, you have so like, there's so much that's fucking up the, the noise from the actual data because there's so many human beings that can talk simultaneously now. And the ones who want to talk the most generally are the fucking dumbest.

3 (15m 38s):
Right. They're the ones that have the time to be spewing shit out on social media All day because they're distracting themselves from whatever they really should be doing with their life. That's like mo it's a psychological thing. The the type of person that gets completely addicted to arguing with people on Twitter All day. Oh God, that person for sure. Distracting themselves from something they should have been doing. And

4 (15m 59s):
You're arguing against something you have, you don't even know who they are. You don't know how old they are. and it you don't know what, how they're

3 (16m 5s):
Dressed so many of them. Yeah. And they're the primary users of these angry aggressive social media platforms. And so you get a distorted perception of what's happening with human beings. But it's colliding with people that are pushing back against that. Yeah. It's colliding with people that are opening their eyes to the amount of, the amount of corruption, the amount of bullshit, the amount of lies You're being told the amount of, the amount of money that's being made by these fucking people that are supposed to be making $170,000 a year. It's just

4 (16m 38s):
Slavery.

3 (16m 38s):
It's, it's

4 (16m 39s):
Different forms of slavery.

3 (16m 41s):
Don don't know if it's, I don't want It's it's control

4 (16m 43s):
In my opinion.

3 (16m 44s):
It's control. It's control. It's hu It's human beings controlling human beings. And they can do it by tricking you and they can trick you into thinking They're with you, they're with trans kids and they're woke and they're this and I. I am telling you they're werewolves. That's a trick to get you to come fucking to hang out in the cafeteria until the Moon comes up. Well, that's what that is

4 (17m 5s):
In the movies. Where do they do the werewolves in the movies? Well, they always, how do we get rid of werewolves

3 (17m 11s):
Though? They shoot 'em with silver bullets except American werewolf in London. and I think they just use regular bullets, which makes more sense. Hmm. Because why should you need a silver bullet? What do we do

4 (17m 19s):
Here? Yeah. We don't need some, but they are aware. We've, we've clarified They're werewolves.

3 (17m 23s):
There's, there's a kind of thing that's different than you. Okay. If you're an architect and you're listening to this, you are like, you really love NPR and you drive an electric car, I pet you're a good guy. Probably have low T but you know, they can fix that. Now if you're listening to this, you, you couldn't imagine a type of a person that exists at the same time that you do that's capable of being such a sociopath that they will just lie to the world in a well-formed out manner that they know is gonna cause a war. Mm. That they know is going to let public support be behind because they've been lied to behind a military campaign that's gonna result in untold hundreds of thousands of deaths possibly look like Iraq.

3 (18m 10s):
So we know that wasn't that long ago. We know that they lied about weapons of mass destruction. They talked about it incessantly on television. They lied and got everyone's support behind Iraq, which didn't even make any sense. Zero sense. It made zero sense. But we were so riled up. We were like a dog that, like someone's been fucking throwing rocks at the dog and then they open the gate and another kid gets bit because he just happened to be there.

4 (18m 40s):
Yeah. And it's also, it's the guy in the corner like, oh my god.

5 (18m 43s):
Yeah, you dude happened. And we're like, what the fuck happened?

4 (18m 46s):
Yeah. What the fuck happened? And if you just, if you just question like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Why are we

5 (18m 51s):
Going, when are you fucking you not American. You don't wanna fight the terror.

4 (18m 55s):
And he made the move. That's where, that's where Bush came in. They're like, make sure you let

5 (19m 0s):
The world know how powerful we really are, George, how

3 (19m 4s):
You, how you become

4 (19m 5s):
And you

5 (19m 5s):
Let them know that this is the be begin. If you don't trust the new world author, then we shall declare war now. And

4 (19m 13s):
He went Yeah. The with us or you with them and what he was really saying, now you either with the werewolves or the non werewolves get mufi.

5 (19m 24s):
You wanna be on this team, show that shit in his ass. This

4 (19m 28s):
Is what you want. Right

5 (19m 29s):
Dude.

4 (19m 31s):
Yeah.

5 (19m 33s):
They,

3 (19m 33s):
They had us back then. That was mission accomplished. Yeah. Was

5 (19m 35s):
When they thought, they thought they was, we kept

3 (19m 38s):
Going home for like 10 more years.

4 (19m 40s):
Yeah. The weird ass.

3 (19m 42s):
Yeah. Well, oh you

4 (19m 43s):
With, damn.

3 (19m 44s):
And the problem with that is what, what nine 11 exposed that was great, was that there is real patriotism when things go sideways Yes. That people will come together. Yes. and I swear to God to people that are listening to this Yes. That weren't an adult during that time. I swear to God there was a noticeable more positive change in the way people interacted with people. Yep. Especially the way people treated cops and firemen. Yep. I remember when I was in New York City after nine 11 and these firemen were hanging out with us outside in front of this comedy club. and it was like hanging out with stars. Like, it was like, these are like the, the local stars on the hockey team or something like that.

3 (20m 27s):
Everybody was like, wow, here's a fireman. Like it was totally different. Man. Firemen were getting laid like crazy. They were telling me

4 (20m 34s):
Women wanted

3 (20m 35s):
To fuck heroes. They wanted to fuck real heroes because those are the people that really did risk their lives going in to save people when fucking buildings collapsed.

4 (20m 43s):
Siah, this is causing the opposite effect that we wanted to, to tell me. They are uniting and they're treating them as hills. Imagine what

3 (20m 52s):
We're

4 (20m 53s):
So dangerous with their pride and their patriotism,

3 (20m 55s):
What we're saying, worst case scenario, demonize

4 (20m 57s):
Them.

3 (20m 57s):
What we're saying, worst case scenario is that they not only knew that those planes are gonna hit the towers, but that they planned for it

4 (21m 7s):
And they planned the counter

3 (21m 8s):
Attack and they allowed it to happen. That's the scariest of all the conspiracy theories. And I'm not saying that that's what happened. I think much more likely there's a lot of things that happen that were incompetence. I think getting that many people to keep their mouth shut about a plan where planes are gonna slam into the World Trade center. Boy, that seems, that seems sketchy. That seems like people would come out. But I think one thing they absolutely do do is when shit goes down, they take advantage of it.

4 (21m 38s):
Well, to the point where you just said the media was so powerful, don't forget they were on all cylinders. All cylinders. If you

3 (21m 49s):
Quest, but there's no social media back then

4 (21m 50s):
If you Right. No social media. All you could do is go on. I remember being in a pub, I was in Chester, New Jersey. don don't know. I went, pub don. Don't have a fuck. What the fuck did that come from? Like, I was in a pub.

3 (22m 5s):
Where did that come from?

4 (22m 6s):
So don don't know. So I was in a pub, Chester, New Jersey, and I was talking about the towers and I and I didn't wanna say, I didn't believe. I said, man, I just got a lot of questions. You don't think it was weird. They just pancaked straight down. I thought that was a miracle. And then the second one, I'm like, wait a minute, wait, this is, and the reaction from that person was, what are you, what are you, what are you fucking one of those antier like, he, he wanted to kill me. So what I'm saying is you couldn't question anything at that time. If you dared question, people would attack you immediately. Have you, even if you had a point, even even the most popular newscasters that people love today, because they're on certain sides.

4 (22m 50s):
They were, they were selling it hard. And to me, I never forgot that they were selling death. They were selling murder. They were selling war. And bro, they, you couldn't question anything. They had that counter attack ready to go. And so when people go, you tell me this was a secret. Yeah, man. When you control all that, that's pretty powerful. When you want to make vi I question it. And this guy wanted to fucking be violent against me. and I was just like, I'm just,

3 (23m 20s):
It's crazy to be violent. You don't think it's weird. It's crazy to be violent about an opinion like that because it's not an offensive opinion. It's not an offensive First of all. It's slightly ignorant. Right? Because the thing about Tower one and Tower two specifically is that didn't fall like a controlled demolition at all. They fell like a building that was collapsing. But Tower seven felt fell like a building into its base. That one's extraordinary. That one's extraordinary. And that one absolutely looks like a controlled demolition. I am not saying it's a controlled demolition. No. What I am saying is the way it collapsed it, it went into its base just like a controlled demolition. And if you don't agree with that, then the, you're talking nonsense.

3 (24m 5s):
If you don't agree with the fact that that looks like a controlled demolition, then we really can't talk because you're, you're dealing in fantasy world or you're, because it undeniably looks exactly like a controlled demolition. That doesn't mean it was the First of all. One thing that doesn't look like a controlled demolition is the top of it. You see it cave in long before the whole building collapses. So there was a structural collapse that you can see from the video that most people aren't aware of. If you see the top of it before the whole building comes down, see that top, see that dark thing in the top? That thing goes first. Now watch how that goes. You mind play it or goes slow?

3 (24m 45s):
Yeah, just play it. Okay. So what apparently was going on? There's diesel generators in that building now. See, see if he could play. I wanna see the thing. I think it was even before that, Jamie. I think it was a larger thing that went under first. That collapsed first. That's it. Yeah. So that's that thing in. See that? Boom. Okay, there it goes. So that collapses. So there's obviously the internal structure's gone. Mm. So this thing collapsing like that Mm. Doesn't, doesn't throw me off as much having seen that because I don't know jack shit about construction. Who does? I don't. But I do know that construction companies are shady as fuck upon occasion.

3 (25m 26s):
And if you're supposed to use X but you can use dumping, you gonna be fine. Least fucking structural engineers, they all want extra thick steel. We're good with this. We got five rivets instead of six. Who makes permits and then you're saving millions and millions of dollars. Mm. Look man, I lived in Boston during the time of the Big Dig. Do you remember the Big Dig? What

4 (25m 48s):
Is the Big Dig? The Big Dig.

3 (25m 50s):
The Big Dig was a fucking construction project that was the most constr, corrupt construction projects that's ever existed. It was supposed to last like a couple years. It went on for decades. These guys milked it. They would be like working like this Dink, it looks

4 (26m 2s):
Like New York and Yeah, New York and Boston. Yeah.

3 (26m 5s):
The big dig. It was supposed to, it started in 1982 when I lived there. It ended in 2007. It was supposed to take like two years. They just fucking milked it. And a bunch of people went to jail. There's a bunch of lawsuits. Oh yeah. Fucking full on corruption.

4 (26m 20s):
How come they don't look at, look at the LIE on Long Island. It's been under construction since as a child.

3 (26m 27s):
Forever. Forever. Well here's another thing. When you pay tolls, the tolls on a bridge, were supposed to be to compensate for the money that it took to build the bridge. Right? But once they have all the money to build the bridge, they're like, fuck you, pay me. Just keep paying me.

4 (26m 45s):
And where's that money

3 (26m 46s):
Going? Just keep paying me. Well, it goes into the state and then the state can make the government bigger. We, and we have more people that can go after you if you don't pay. Here's another law. Hey, do you know that more government jobs have been created over the last, I forget what the time period was than any other sector. Any other things that's going on. But

4 (27m 4s):
See Joe, it's little things like this. What drives me nuts too is, you know what it is? I think people's emotions, it's just people's emotions are still with it. They're either in denial or they don't want to face the dark or they picked a team and no matter what that team says, the other team is wrong. And they'd say, Hey, I'm an Eagles

3 (27m 26s):
Fan. But First of all, you have to have a lot of looking into things before you form a realistic perspective of what's happening. It takes a long time man. And a lot of people don't have that time. We're lucky that we're comics and we have a lot of time. Yeah. You know? Yeah. Being a standup especially. But you know, the podcast kind of gets in the way of that. 'cause I have to sit down and talk to people for a few hours. But if you're a standup, for the most part, you can do whatever the fuck you want during your day. Right? Right, right. And so if you wanna freakout, you want to get online and freakout, you wanna go full. Dave Smith, Dave Smith's out there reading studies and papers and fucking historical accounts of false flag events and what was really going on in Nicaragua.

3 (28m 6s):
Like, holy shit man. Like you, that rabbit hole is filled with werewolves. It's a

4 (28m 12s):
Lot of werewolves and werewolves the human, I do this once in a while. Once in a while I'll be like, okay, I'm going too deep in around there. Ooh. And then I go, oh, I don't have that much. They don't care about me. What am I talking

3 (28m 23s):
About? Oh, Of course. They care about you. You're funny. You're funny and you make good points and you're against the narrative,

4 (28m 29s):
You know? But we should all

3 (28m 31s):
Be against the narrative. We should figure out what the truth is and forget about the narrative. That's, forget about your ideology. You don't have to do it. You don't have to do it. I know. Everybody thinks they have to do it. 'cause you gotta be on a team and everybody wants to be on a team that's supported by them. And it's like, we are progressive and we this and we that and we gotta stop me consumption and we gotta stop. And you have all these things that you probably haven't looked at at all and you're married to them because you're committed to this fucking group of people. I'm telling you, most people exist here. They exist here in this beautiful swamp of both conservative and liberal. Conservative on things that are important. Like taking care of your family and paying your taxes and getting your fucking, being li on time for work and getting your shit done.

3 (29m 14s):
But but liberal in terms of consideration for all people. Whatever your sexual orientation is, whatever you like. We're friends. We're all just humans. I want you to be happy. I want everybody to be educated. I want everybody to have good healthcare. I want everybody to be in a position where they're not in a place that's filled with crime and murder. I want all those things. But I know that if you're gonna wanna have those things, now you gotta support law enforcement and you gotta train the shit out of them. And you gotta pay them more. And you gotta make it a more respectable job. And then you have to go into the inner cities. You can't just allow it to stay the way it is forever. You fucking like, I'm, that's like a national, that's a national security problem.

3 (29m 54s):
What is national security? There's security of the citizens there. If there's less crime, we're more secure. The fact you're not doing fucking jack shit about that. But you're sending hundreds of billions of dollars to deal with conflict on another part of the world. This is insanity. That's insanity. and it is inanity. and it only works if you get on a team. It only works if you support a team. There's

4 (30m 15s):
No reason to be on a team.

3 (30m 16s):
There's no reason to be on a team. There's

4 (30m 18s):
No reason to be on any team.

3 (30m 21s):
No reason. No reason. I, there's we're

4 (30m 23s):
Way more powerful than that. Yes. As individuals uniting with this incredible energy.

3 (30m 27s):
Also you can learn things. If you close your fucking head and you don't listen to anything that people on the other side say. You just say, oh, little fucking you're gonna miss stuff. You're gonna miss a lot of stuff. You're gonna, you're gonna be wrong. You're gonna have a stupid egotistical perspective of things that's not necessary. You go to unfair me unfairly malign people's character because they have a, a opposing philosophy or an opposing ideology. And that's bad for everybody. We have to, if we're gonna move forward as human beings and as a society and as a civilization, we have to be nicer to each other. We have to just accept the fact that your ideas are not, you do not be married to your ideas and debate them in an open way and talk about stuff in an open way where you're a good person, you're talking to another and do it all in good faith.

3 (31m 19s):
And if we can all agree to do that, we'll find out that there's way more we have in common. Way more we have in common. And that's what we should be concentrating on. And there's also some fucking undeniable problems with the way our society is run that have never been addressed in terms of crime and inner city problems and infrastructure. There's corruption at least in the form of incompetence. and it, the thing that happens when you get government bigger and bigger and bigger. and I hate to sound like a fucking libertarian, but if you get government bigger, bigger, you just talking honesty, it's a business. And if it's a business that doesn't have any competition, you can't even hire the public sector to compete and do a better job of all those things.

3 (32m 1s):
All those things have to be taken care of by the government. Are we fucking sure? 'cause in every other sector of life That's right. When you allow people to compete, whether it is with art or with, you know, with fucking construction, whether it's surgeons, the best ones are the ones that people want to go to. and I I know. and it forces people to get better at everything. And you have a much more efficient system. I mean, look, imagine if there was businesses out there that they failed their audit six years in a row. Right? Just money was just missing. Sorry, money's missing. Dunno what happened. Thousand bucks. And we just accept it.

3 (32m 42s):
Hey, you know those guys over at Kellogg's? They just, the fucking cereals everywhere. They don't know what's going on. Yeah. Some money's missing here and there. Whatever. It's

4 (32m 49s):
Fucking, fucking

3 (32m 50s):
Cereal.

4 (32m 51s):
Hey, hey, climate change, climate cha. How much did we give 'em this year? 3 trillion. What'd you come up with? We're gonna have an ice age. So they fucked up couple trillion. Let's give him another trillion. Let it figured out for the next 10 years.

3 (33m 5s):
Randall Carlson scared the shit out me when he was talking to me about climate change.

4 (33m 9s):
What'd he say?

3 (33m 10s):
He said, because it was really funny because I had a friend of mine who reach out to me and she said, did you have a climate denni on your podcast? I said, no, I did not have a climate change denier. He's an expert in

4 (33m 21s):
A trained word by

3 (33m 21s):
The way. He's an expert in asteroidal impacts. Yeah. And the younger driest impact theory, which is the, the impact theory that ended civilization allegedly 11 or you know that the theory is that it did. But the point is like he was telling me that we've had periods of global warming all throughout the history of the earth. The real fear he said is the periods of global cooling. He said global cooling should terrify you. And he was explaining to me the amount of carbon that is in the atmosphere and that it's a very delicate balance. And that when the amount of carbon dips below a certain number, life can't Survive.

3 (34m 5s):
Like there's, there's no plant life. So the plant life can't Survive then the, then the animals can't Survive. And we've gotten close to that in the past without any human intervention. We've also gotten close to the point where during the ice age there was so little oxygen on the earth. Like the atmosphere was different. It was getting to the point where it was almost in like if it got a certain amount colder, it would not be able to support live Okay. On the planet. But but that's the scary one. The scary one is the ice ages kids. That's the scary, the scary one is not you gotta move north. The scary one is there is no north to move to 'cause everything's frozen. Yeah.

4 (34m 41s):
But we're all here and borrowed time. That's true too. So who we to say, who's to prevent that if it hadn't before we existed as humans? It's gonna happen no matter what. So what are you gonna prepare? Yeah. You spend your whole life preparing for something you don't know it's a ever gonna happen. B completely outta any human's. Control. I mean there's

3 (35m 1s):
Gotta be some steps that you can make. So one of the things that you could do is, I think during the ice age there was parts of the earth that were not covered in ice. and I think it was like all the equator and I think you would probably for human beings to Survive, we'd have to go south. Which totally makes sense. If you think about the amount of insane stuff that came out of the Amazon. Just think about that culture, the Amazon culture and all of the incredible structures that they're finding now deep in the jungle. And that there's real evidence that the density of the forest, the amount of trees that are grown, that are agriculture trees that are in the forest, seems to indicate that that whole thing was manmade.

3 (35m 43s):
There's a type of soil called terra preda that's this soil that they developed that we don't know how to reproduce. And it's a soil that replicates, it's filled with like this biomass and it's like this incredibly rich soil that has like this certain ratio of carbon. And they made it, these people thousands and thousands of years ago made it and it supports the life of the Amazon. Like that whole fucking place is wild man. I know. And that you think about it when everything was frozen up here. Yeah. Like there was a, a fucking mile high sheet of ice over most of North America up until like 10,000, 11,000 years ago. So when all that stuff was like that down there, they were chilling down there.

3 (36m 27s):
They didn't have that problem. There was like regular temperature for them. What we are is like Antarctica is right now. That's how we were at one point in time right here.

4 (36m 36s):
Well, I, I can't go far that I can't go that far back. 'cause some, anything I can't truly imagine. I'll start to go there and I'm like, you know, like dinosaurs and all that stuff. I got $40 million. Ah, whatever. But I will say this, this bugged me out and you know, I started seeing how they did the, the world fair. How they just build the whole damn thing up. Yeah.

3 (36m 60s):
Then they tore it down.

4 (37m 1s):
Now in a very small concept, I was sitting in this development that I live in now and I'm sitting and I'm looking 'cause everyone said, oh dude, we used to, we used to hunt on here and bring our four wheelers and blah, blah blah. And then I started just realizing this entire community, there's like a thousand houses, the palm trees and the, and the grass and blah blah blah. and it was all just, was all just created like a movie set. Yep. Just completely created. And as, as crazy as you know, and there's armadillos and as crazy as that sounds are like, oh, so what? I always go, well if you can do that, why couldn't you do it? 10 to a thousand times bigger.

4 (37m 42s):
And how long have you been doing that? How long Dude, it started and I'm just sitting on a bench. I was going far out there. But yeah, that's what the people that wanna, it's simple. If you really think about

3 (37m 51s):
It, that's what the people wanna eliminate half the population. They're thinking. They're thinking there's too many people. Werewolves.

4 (37m 57s):
The

3 (37m 57s):
Werewolves. Yeah. There's, there's a lot of people that are, they're elitist as well. There's a lot of elitist that have this perspective that we need to lessen the population. Including like brilliant people. Like that woman, the woman who works with the apes.

4 (38m 13s):
Oh yes.

3 (38m 14s):
What is her name?

4 (38m 15s):
The the one that was in

3 (38m 16s):
Chimps. Yes. She's amazing. What is her name? Man?

4 (38m 18s):
She had a great document. Jane. Jane.

3 (38m 20s):
Jane Goodall. Jane Goodall. Yes. Dude,

4 (38m 22s):
She had a great documentary. And then I heard her say she, she brought up the population

3 (38m 28s):
Control. She wants less people. Yeah. I think that's unfortunate. But I think also she's saying that because she lives with monkeys, like she's out of her fucking mind. Like this lady's lived with chimpanzees All day. Also true. Also as brilliant and as amazing as this woman is, she also believes in Bigfoot and she's convinced that it exists. Come on. Oh yeah. Play that, play that clip. Hold on, hold on on, come on. It's just saying that she had quotes that were mistaken. Oh, okay. Just, I was just checking because well, she said without any suffering, she said it in a very kind way to reduce the world population. Oh, I heard her say that. Even though or something that missing context. This misrepresents Goodall's remarks and is not a real quote. While she did say many of the world's environmental problems would be relieved that the population was that of 500 years ago, she did not advocate for depopulation efforts.

3 (39m 9s):
I didn't think she said she was advocating for depopulation efforts. No, but what she was saying was that the world has too many people. Yes, but I don, she was not saying that people should die. And she's saying like, but you know what I mean. Like that is, but hold on. That's a valid thought. Like even if you love people and you're not an evil person, that is a valid thought that without any pain and suffering, it would be better if there were less people. That's a valid thought. It really is. Like if there was less people, there would be less congestion. People would be more relaxed. It'd be more resources. It'd be easier to get along and be more balanced on earth. That is true. She is right.

3 (39m 49s):
but it, the problem with that thought is if you start expressing it, then people start saying, I think we can make that happen. And then there's werewolves get involved. The weres and werewolves get involved and go, you know, if we did do this and if what along the way we instituted a social credit score and tied up all the money in centralized digital currency and then attach to carbon tax to everything everybody does. We basically limit their behavior. We'd be in control of the entire thing. And then people start dying. You know, we're fucking people die. Hey man, things change. Climate change is killing people. I don dunno. If you know a lot of kids are having heart attacks due to climate change, we could

6 (40m 24s):
Start finding more universities and start popping 'em up in worldwide. That's a worldwide

3 (40m 29s):
Situation when you see stories like that, like young people are gonna have heart attacks due to climate change. I've seen those like, yeah. Yeah. Anything else but teachers, anything else? Give kids heart attacks. Thanks for writing that article. I'll, I'll be sure to make sure that the kids get water when it gets hot out. If they're running anything else. Give 'em heart attacks that you guys ever found. Have you been looking around? Nope. Nothing. Nothing over here. Just climate change. Okay. So the, like what is the uptick in the amount of kids having heart attacks? And is it corresponding to a certain temperature rise? It seems like that would be like scientifically you could measure that if there was an uptick and the temperature raised 1% and we saw a 10% increase in heart attacks amongst 18 year olds.

3 (41m 12s):
Which is happening, right? I don't know what the number is, but I do know that it has been happening. What the heck is that all about? The number of deaths is what's the spooky one? Because the all cause mortality spiked way up. That's what, that's what's freaky. That's a freaky one. That's a freaky one. And you could attribute, then you have to be really fair about that. You could attribute that to a bunch of different things. First of all, you could attribute it to bad habits that people picked up during covid that will take up a certain percentage of them. There's a lot of that. A lot of people became alcoholics during covid. Oh yeah. A lot of people did. So that's a percentage. And then you have to think about a percentage of people that got covid and got fucking wrecked because I know some people that got wrecked.

3 (41m 56s):
Same. They got wrecked and they were, you know, compromised after that. They got on different medications after that. I know some of them that developed all sorts of like lung problems and scarring of the lungs. Like some people got hit hard. So there's that. And this is not even vaccine talk, just just covid itself. Yep. And then there's, there's people that have adverse reactions to the vaccine. There's people that unquestionably had autoimmune issues after they got it. Now what is that from? Has that been fully discussed? Is that, or is it climate change? Are, are we just

4 (42m 32s):
Gonna, it could be climate change.

3 (42m 33s):
Are we just gonna go climate change change on everything's too much breathing. I'm willing to go climate change with you. I'm totally interested in hearing what everybody has to say about climate change.

4 (42m 41s):
I think it's capable of giving heart attacks, but

3 (42m 43s):
I want a full conversation. And if there's a part of the, if you're looking at all the variables and there's one that you're ignoring specifically one that's a novel medical intervention never been tried before and it was done to hundreds of millions of people. You won't look at that one.

4 (43m 3s):
That's a fair, that's a fair assessment.

3 (43m 6s):
Yeah. I mean like we're,

4 (43m 7s):
You're putting it out there.

3 (43m 8s):
I think all humans should do that. and I think the problem is, during the pandemic, a couple things happened. One, people looked at the people that were unwilling to get vaccinated as people that are gonna fuck it up for all of us. Yes. And the people that got vaccinated, they probably were a little nervous about it, but they took the risk and they felt like they did the right thing and you didn't do the right thing. And that's valid. That's a total, totally valid position to take. But the problem with that position is you're being trapped into a a you got, you got corralled into a, a very clear pathway. There's one solution to this problem. And we all have to do this thing to get to that one solution.

3 (43m 49s):
And once we do, we're gonna be fine. But somewhere along the way, if you're paying attention, you would realize that A, it doesn't work as advertised. B, the studies that they did never indicated any of the things that they were promoting. Like that it prevents you from getting it or it stops infection or that it stops transmission. No, nothing. There's nothing on that. There's zero on that. And so along the way they lowered the expectations, they lowered what you would get from it. It's just gonna keep you outta the hospital. I mean, there's this clip of Joy Behar arguing with this lady from a long time ago when the lady said she had natural immunity because she already had covid and she got over it before the vaccine came out and she's not gonna take the vaccine and they're berating her

4 (44m 33s):
Joy Behar werewolf

3 (44m 35s):
Berating her. No, I'm just, just doesn't me, I'm,

4 (44m 37s):
I'm

3 (44m 38s):
She's, she just doesn't know, you know? And very ideologically locked into a position. You know, it's a women's talk show. It's in front of the public. It's on a television network. There's so many variables that would lead to not being able to like, not only not express yourself in a clear and objective way, but not even be able to look at the world through a clear objective way because it jeopardizes your income. It jeopardizes your position as one of those people. You get like locked into a certain kind of thinking, even if you're already inclined to think that way. I

4 (45m 6s):
Agree with you a thousand percent. But we all cross that path and it's easier for some than others. and I understand the whole world of being there. Yeah. But in my, and I'm not saying I'm better or anyone's better, but you can't tell me at one moment in your life when you're saying new things, you're saying whether it's on a certain television show or whatever and you know, you know, do you still want to be able to call that restaurant when it's busy season?

4 (45m 46s):
Well, it's

3 (45m 47s):
Packed. Yeah. You know,

4 (45m 50s):
So I get it. And yeah, the money's beautiful. The fancy people. We just, we, we all love what we're doing. The thing is that on every level, on every level, people's

3 (45m 59s):
People's opinions are very pliable. Whether you believe it or not. That's how cults get started. They, they trick you into thinking a very specific way. That's how cults get started. You're right. They, if human beings, we are pliable. And the best way to resist that is to not be married to your ideas. Don't be married to them. Be you. Like you should have a core set of values. You love your family, you love your friends. Try to be a good person. Do your best at whatever it is that you do. That's the core. All that other stuff, these ideas, you gotta look at what them for what they really are. And sometimes, sometimes you get the wrong one stuck in your head and then you identify with it and you defend it even when it's wrong.

3 (46m 39s):
And I've seen brilliant people fall down that path, especially during the pandemic. Especially in regards to the vaccines or the lockdowns or the severity of the virus for people that are healthy. There's a lot of variables that were ignored that shouldn't have been ignored if we're gonna be honest with each other. So the problem is, you are one side or the other. You were team vaccine or you team pure blood, you know? Right. And the pure bloods got locked into like maga Yes. And fucking hillbillies. And

4 (47m 7s):
Yes dude, I-I-I-I-I keep going around in circles and I hang out with every gang. I love every gang. I, everybody's got something to offer. Which is why I think that's how we'll grow. Like, you don't have to join here, You don't join here. But the more, the more I see, the more groups that are formed, you know, I remember being a kid, you know what the greatest time was. And, and my mom and dad were both working. I'd be in the kitchen like a little kid. and I, remember Mary Mary's, this lady watching me and all the neighbors would come over and this one's talking about divorce. don don't know what they were talking about. Like what the, and this one had whatever.

4 (47m 49s):
And everyone would get together and they're like, they'd have cake and they'd help each other and they'd give advice. You know, years ago therapists would call friends and family Yeah. And look after each other. You didn't have, you didn't have people, well you had people nursing homes. But I remember going over my friend's house, like, listen, we go in the house. My grandma's in the basement, you know, she dribbles and she talks weird shit. And it's like she, well she had dementia. Yeah. But that's what we've lost. What what, for me, what Covid did was it was the la it was the way the werewolves, I say it's the werewolves, the well the werewolves went. This is how we really ripped the families apart.

4 (48m 31s):
And well, because everybody has fear in them. And everyone, your family has fear. Every human being has fear in them and their testing. The more the werewolves get the test, your fear factor, the stronger they become. 'cause they see who buckles, they see who's gonna call many people buckle. See how many people they see how many people. They see who's lashing out. They see how many people wearing a mask at the airport. They, they So they're measuring the fear. Yeah. And you know, man, I just, I pray to God it's ti it just becomes time for the fearless and what the fearless is. It's not a violent fight, it's just you, you've said some brilliant things.

4 (49m 14s):
I, I remember years ago you talking about like, dude, this is the time of the truth. And, and it really resonated. Like yes, that's what we need in life. Just, just truth, just honesty. Well, we're get just looking after each other. We're,

3 (49m 26s):
I think we're gonna get there.

4 (49m 27s):
Oh, I know. We're getting there. I think we're just getting there. We gotta be, we gotta be aware of the werewolves. Yeah.

3 (49m 32s):
Well we gotta be aware of the werewolves are trying to close the gate. Yes. They're trying to close the gate before human beings. Without these enormous institutions, human beings have the power over the narrative. And that human beings that you trust are real. They do exist. They just don't exist in those systems. They exist independently for the most part. And they're, they're real. And they can tell you what's actually going on. It'll shock you, but it shouldn't if you understand history. Do you know what the number one group of people in the beginning of the pandemic when they rolled out the vaccines number one group that had vaccine hesitancy?

4 (50m 6s):
No

3 (50m 7s):
PhDs. Find that, find that There was an article that I was reading. I hope it's true that in the beginning there's a lot of PhDs that were like, because these are people that like, understand how these studies are funded probably, or at least understand how research is done and how research is done through the pharmaceutical drug companies. So the pharmaceutical drug companies, they do their own research and then they don't, when, when something's peer reviewed, it doesn't even get, they don't even get access to the raw data. They get access to the assessment of the data by the pharmaceutical companies. And the pharmaceutical companies can do 10 studies and they rig their studies in a way they get the most biased results. And if eight of them show no benefit, but one or two of them shows a little bit of a benefit, then they can roll out and then they start making, Ooh.

3 (50m 59s):
So I think PhDs were very aware of that system and aware of the, also if you're, if you understand human psychology, you are aware of what happens to people in a time of great angst and pressure that they panic in, in, in every horror movie you see this. So people fall apart. There's, and the weaker you can make society, the more corrupted you can make society, the more decadent you can make society, the more society that doesn't value discipline, that doesn't value free will, that doesn't value people's independence and strength and health, well then you'll be able to find more suckers when the shit goes sideways. You're gonna get more pussies.

3 (51m 40s):
You're gonna get more people that are willing to sell out their neighbors. 'cause they were having a party and they weren't socially distancing. You get a lot of fucking suckers because it's too easy to live today. And it's, there's too, it's, it's too, it's too easy to develop until a fully formed adult that is made outta mush. Not just mush with your body, but mush with your mind. Mush with your opinions. M mush with your will. Your will to get things done, your will to work, your discipline, to get up and get things done. Those aren't frivolous things. Those aren't things that you should ever equate to. Toxic masculinity or toxic feminine energy.

3 (52m 22s):
Now, those are powerful human traits. And you've been tricked. You've been tricked into thinking that weakness is a virtue. It's not. Kindness is a virtue. Mm. And kindness through strength is the most honest kindness. Mm. When Francis and Ghana is being nice to you, it's 'cause he wants to be nice to you. You know what I'm saying? Yes. That's a real, when he's kind, it's real kindness. They found 23.9% of the people who said they hold PhD degrees express hesitancy, the highest rate amongst the various levels of education. So the brightest people where they're like, yeah,

4 (52m 55s):
Think about what were you saying before? Like with okay, where the view or whoever was saying points, it's in due defense. This is a very addictive system they created that the werewolves created and that they I mean. It starts when we're young. So not a whole lot of people have time to break outta that, in my opinion. Also,

3 (53m 23s):
The people who watch them are all boomers and they grew up with all their, their information on the newspapers or on television, you

4 (53m 29s):
Know what they call it? Someone taught me this,

3 (53m 31s):
Hold on a second. What does it say? Sorry. A sensitivity analysis found some people answered in the extreme ends of the demographic categories to throw off some of the numbers. King said it appeared to be a concerted effort that didn't make the hesitancy prevails of the PhD group look higher than it really is. So what kind of concerted effort would it be? Are they saying that they asked them in a way that was deceptive if they, they either expressed hesitancy or they didn't. It was

9 (53m 59s):
An early study in 2021 that, you know, there wasn't a lot of studies going on

3 (54m 4s):
Yet. Well, I'll tell you how you could get a study like that. This is how you do it. You do it while Trump's president. If you did that shit while Trump's president, you know how many people were hesitant, including Kamala, Harris, Joe Bidet, everyone. They were all saying, Cuomo, who's gonna take it? They're all saying who's gonna take it. That's right. They were all saying that. Every single one of them. See if you can find a video of that, because he see that

4 (54m 23s):
Cuomo, I remember Cuomo going, why would you take that? and I wouldn't trust the government. The Trump guy,

3 (54m 27s):
You take the Trump vaccine, Trump's a fucking lab coat guy. Imagine

4 (54m 32s):
Devil.

3 (54m 33s):
Trump's gonna fucking, he's got a hair net on a fucking lab coat and he's fixing up vaccines. And maybe

4 (54m 39s):
We can have hydroxychloroquine God kill anyone related to hydroxychloroquine I

3 (54m 44s):
Mean. Well there was a recent, there was a recent study that they just released that said that as many as 17,000 people worldwide died of hydroxychloroquine. So I asked Robert Kennedy Jr about this and what he, he, he sent me the actual study and he sent me what the results were. And here's what was wrong with them. First of all, they administered it to people that were already in the hospital for covid. You're supposed to give it to people within the first 10 to 14 days. That's when it's effective. After that. It's not effective after the infections reach a certain level. Second of all, there is a level that you would give these people. And this was far above that level. And they were giving it to people who were already dying. He was like, they're essentially overdosing them while they're already dying with hydroxychloroquine.

3 (55m 25s):
And this contributed to 17,000 deaths. Like, okay, maybe it did, maybe people actually did do that. And maybe they did that outta ignorance. Maybe they did that 'cause a protocol wasn't established. Maybe they did that because they were just wrong. But also what, how many people would've been saved if they used it. If you looked into that, you can't ignore that. Hydroxychloroquine is a, a widely used medication that's been used for malaria forever, for a long ass time. It became political. Which is insane because it's a drug. And a lot of times drugs have an initial reason why they created them and then they find that it works with something else and it works even better with something else.

3 (56m 8s):
Yes, that happens by accident all the time. But the fact that they couldn't have it happen with hydroxychloroquine or ivermectin is just, that should tell you what's going on. Especially with Ivermectin because it had surpassed the amount of time so you could just get a generic so no one had a patent on it. So it's very cheap.

4 (56m 28s):
Two thi two, two things that I would tell people. Like just your example, if it's such a be, well before we even get into that, people still trust a hundred percent just because you say you're a PhD and it's on television now that whole scenario is very much like nine 11 meaning, and even within their own department. So if, if PhDs and in their whole thing, people were afraid to lose their jobs, they're like, this is what the answer is when they ask the question. Otherwise we'll take your license away. You like having that reservation

3 (57m 9s):
De Clancy that thing that we do, this appeal to authority is valid in certain ways. So if I was gonna ask an astrophysicist questions and I had a choice of either asking Jamie or Neil deGrasse Tyson, I'm gonna go with Neil deGrasse Tyson. Oh,

4 (57m 25s):
Hold

3 (57m 25s):
On, Jamie. Without Google. Without Google. I'm just fucking kidding. Without Google. Well, hold on. You know what I'm saying? Let's test

4 (57m 34s):
It. Well, yes. Yeah. Well

3 (57m 35s):
Listen man, he knows things. Let's go. He's a fucking legitimate expert. So here's my point. Yeah. There's PhDs are like comics. There's comics like you that I love and I love to talk to. And there's comics that I see where I go the other way. I'm like, lemme get the fuck outta here before a conversation starts out that don don't wanna have. You know what I'm saying? There's guys that are boring. Yes. They're they're annoying. They're Yes. There's fucking, they don't connect with you. Yes. They're all they're thinking about is what can they get? You know those guys? Yes. And when you're around them, it's always about them. Yes. They're frustrating. I don't like talking to those kind of dudes. They're, they frustrate me. They work, they

4 (58m 11s):
Work bits out on you. Oh, they

3 (58m 12s):
Frustrate me. I don't mind if a guy works out a bit on me. If he goes, I got a bit. I love that kinda shit. Tony and I do that all the time. Tony's always bringing up bits with me. No, no, no.

4 (58m 21s):
Bringing up bits is one thing.

3 (58m 22s):
Yeah. We're trying, we're trying to like, we do that in the fucking green room all the time. Yeah. That's not what my problem is. My problem is they're not really there. Some dudes are not there. Right. Like when they're talking to you, they're not, you don't know them. We don't smile together. Right. You don't gimme a hug. There's something missing. We're not connecting. You know,

4 (58m 39s):
Maybe they're not

3 (58m 40s):
There. I think that's the same with PhDs. I think there's PhDs that are guys, you know, that are absolutely dedicated to finding out what the data shows and what the facts are. And a lot of those guys, if they've fallen outta that narrative, they get fucking demonized. They get demonized. Quick

4 (58m 58s):
People, people underestimate the power of, of length that any human will go, no matter how educated they are, no matter what they know is right or wrong. They underestimate literally the power of money and who's making money at the end of the day. And how much money could buy as far as an agenda, how much money can buy as far as lying. Yeah. I'm not saying no

3 (59m 23s):
Lying. No. People

4 (59m 24s):
Definitely lie. Hundreds of millions of people. 'cause they're making billions of dollars on your fear, on you, on the thought, knowing that you're not even gonna question. If you do question, we're gonna come at you so that you'll be fearing. There was like different layers of fear they hit. Yeah. And bro, it's, I get it. I call it like casualties of war, but not, you know, we think casualties of war where, you know, your limbs are off and which are, but I feel as I watch all this, I'm watching. 'cause I was angry at first. I was very vicious. Foam at the mouth angry. and I could still go there. And I'm not angry at what happened. I'm angry on how you took such advantage of, of just natural humans that are so innocent and have such good lives and spirits in them.

4 (1h 0m 19s):
And you went full blown onslaught for whatever reason. Whether you wanna control or for money, you, you, you tore apart. What what keeps us connected? Our hearts. Our souls are innocence. They took innocence and they made us, they, they, that is to me the most violent, evil, disturbing, soulless part of any existence. and I pray to God, people see it because when they see it and they see the, the amount of destruction it truly caused, that's a, that's a force to be reckoned with.

4 (1h 1m 8s):
But like Joey Diaz says, oh, he

5 (1h 1m 10s):
Takes three motherfuckers.

4 (1h 1m 13s):
The shit

3 (1h 1m 14s):
Shit

5 (1h 1m 15s):
Done. Three motherfuckers,

3 (1h 1m 17s):
Three motherfuckers, Joe Rugger, three motherfuckers. I'll take over this whole town. Three real motherfuckers. It's true.

4 (1h 1m 25s):
Yes.

3 (1h 1m 26s):
Well,

4 (1h 1m 27s):
But anyway,

3 (1h 1m 28s):
The most important things that people understand now how these games work. Yes. And the only way they work is if we're pitted against each other. Yes. Whether we're pitted against each other with trans sports. Don't think that they're not involved in all that stuff. Of course. Because it's also a polarizing issue. It's a polarizing issue. All of it. You know, when they, we call about gender affirming care. The, the way they phrase things and the way they use things understand that this is a polarizing position that they take because they want to make sure we continue to fight against each other. They want to make sure that we are at each other's throat and they will manufacture these little crises over and over and over again.

3 (1h 2m 8s):
Manufacture these little climate change. There's so many people that are out there that tell you, we have to stop climate change. We're all gonna die. We need to get an electric car. We're all gonna die. And they haven't looked at it at all. You need to stop eating meat. We're all gonna die. We're all gonna die. Is it possible they're trying to control the food source? Fuck yes it is. Yeah. Is that a a a massive way that you can control human beings control the food supply? Absolutely. It is. Yeah. And when someone starts telling you, Hey, you gotta kill food because the food is making too much carbon and that's making the earth warm. Okay. Meanwhile, China's building hundreds of coal powered plants right now. How many coal powered plants right now are being built in China?

3 (1h 2m 48s):
'cause this is an extraordinary number. We have to understand this when you're talking about ruining people's lives to have a minimal effect on the amount of CO2 that's being put out worldwide. Because the amount that's being put out by China and India far surpasses the rest of the world. You are just gonna make people starve. You're gonna put people in dire poverty and make nary and impact on that problem. I'm not saying you should ignore that problem, but I'm saying you should look at all the ways to fix that problem. And none of them should involve people starving. So China, look at the amount. 1,142 operational coal mines more than anyone on Earth. India has 282.

3 (1h 3m 30s):
The United States is 210. That's all. Well, the United States, you wanna do something really good instead of fucking killing cows. Change to nuclear power. Change to nuclear power and do it with new nuclear powered plants that have a bunch of safeguards set in that they, they didn't have when they built Fukushima, they didn't have, when they built three mile island. The technology has evolved just like cell phone technology and television technology and computer nuclear power plant technology has also evolved. And they can do it safe now. And it's the cleanest form of energy. All of the experts that are unbiased that I have talked to, have convinced me of this. It's a fascinating thing. 'cause in our mind we connect nuclear power to destroying the environment.

3 (1h 4m 10s):
Danger, Chernobyl ruin forever. Which is true in those areas. It is absolutely true. It's also true that it doesn't have to be that way. It's also true that they know how to do it better now. It's also true that they have better methods of containing these plants and they can actually shut them down. Now Unlike, the Fukushima one, that's still, they have still fucking cool that thing down. That that whole thing is a disaster. That Fukushima thing is crazy. They didn't, it's all crazy. They had a backup generator that got whacked too by the tsunami. So they got nothing. No power. So the fucking thing melts down and it's gonna be like that for a hundred thousand years. But that, that's just that local thing. You gotta get the fuck outta that area. And they have to learn and make better power plants. If you'll let people, if you think you have a carbon problem and you, you have thousands of coal powered plants that are just pumping into the actual air that we all breathe, that's way worse.

3 (1h 5m 2s):
Kids. And that can be fixed with nuclear power. That's what we should be concentrating on. Not killing fucking 2000 cows in Ireland or whatever the fuck they're doing. They're, they're telling people they have to kill their cows. Dude, we have to reduce the amount of cows. You can't tell me they're laughing now.

4 (1h 5m 17s):
It is a funny script. If we got together and we were pure evil and we're like, Joe, I'm gonna have them slaughtering the cows, believing it'll be better for the environment.

3 (1h 5m 28s):
It's the fucking madness man. And you'd think of any people that would not crazy buy into that. It's the Irish, don't you guys remember the potato famine? Jesus fucking Christ. You guys have a long history of a horrible famine that I learned about when I was a kid. We all do. Everybody knew about the Irish potato fa Yeah. Look, people can fucking starve to death. That's still true. And if the power goes out tomorrow, it's gonna happen. There's gonna be people that starve to death. We get hit by a giant solar flare that takes out every grid in the world. Yeah. We're fucked for a long ass time. Kids, people are gonna starve. And so the idea that you're gonna kill cows to slightly reduce the amount of methane that gets produced, it's in the air. Instead of looking at regenerative methods that actually take the carbon and sequester it back into the earth, which they've already proved they can do.

3 (1h 6m 13s):
At least in places like white oaks pastures, they do that. It's like a carbon, it's like a negative amount of carbon. Like they, they use everything to regenerate the ground the same way it's supposed to be in nature. That's not the fucking problem. Kids, the problem is coal plants. Coal plants are a bigger fucking problem.

4 (1h 6m 30s):
See the Isaiah just see it as like, they just need to, how do we kill the cows? How do we control food? Ta-da. It's control. Here's, here's all the brilliant ways and the powers we have to do blah, blah, blah. It's just, to me, I see it all as hogwash except for just another way to control.

3 (1h 6m 49s):
You saw doing, was it Denmark where they were taking farmers farms away? They were destroying farmers because they weren't allowing them to use fertilizer anymore. There's like so much weird shit that goes on where people start trying to control farmers. You, if you start fucking with the people that make our food, that's a real problem. Stupid start.

4 (1h 7m 6s):
It's been going on for the last 40, 50 years. Hard is make food. I didn't underst food. I would apologize to John Mellon camp and Willie Nelson, all those guys right now. 'cause I remember being a a, a banana metalhead and those guys were coming out like farm aid. I was like farms. Farms and I. Go. Yeah. Mall. And now I understood what they were trying to do

3 (1h 7m 30s):
Nationwide. This is interesting 'cause this just started happening Nationwide. German farmer blockades heat pressure on Schultz. So these, they've been throwing manure over buildings and shit. German farmers kicked off a week of nationwide protests against subsidy cuts on Monday, blocking roads at tractors and piling misery on Chancellor Olaf Schultz coalition as it struggles to fix a budget mess and contain rising far right forces. Oh, far right. Right. Farmers

4 (1h 7m 56s):
Extremists

3 (1h 7m 57s):
Con conveys of tractors and trucks gathered on roads in sub zero zero temperatures in nearly all 16 federal states. While protestors class with police and leading politicians warned that the unrest could be co-opted by extremists. Extremists. Extremists. Yeah. Ex ex people who don't wanna get fucked. Yeah. How about let 'em be farmers. You fucking cunts. They're the people that grow your food. God damnit wake up. Wake up to why anybody would do that. Who what fucking government would fuck with the farmers? What government would make it harder on the farmers? You're telling me that that's your number one problem is the farmers. How much crime do you have? How many murders? How many thieves? How many rapists? How many child molesters? How how many swindlers, how many people that are ripping people off?

3 (1h 8m 39s):
How many credit card fraudsters do you have out there? And you're going after farmers? There's no way that's positive. There's no way. It's not even physically possible. If you looked at all of your obligations and all the things that you should be doing that you put any resources into fucking with farmers.

4 (1h 8m 56s):
Yeah. Man. People don't understand. To me it's just, it's so, it's just a takeover. It's a simple takeover. It's so, it's, it's almost like it's gradual.

3 (1h 9m 7s):
It's

4 (1h 9m 7s):
So gradual. and it's also like an illusion.

3 (1h 9m 10s):
Jordan Peterson explained it did. I saw that the way it works. Yeah, I saw that. See if you can find that. Jordan Peterson, me. He was brilliant.

4 (1h 9m 17s):
Me that you Yeah.

3 (1h 9m 18s):
How, how you change things. You push people a little bit and they don't push back. And then you push 'em a little more and then they say, Hey, stop right there. And you wait a little while and then you push again. And then next thing you know, before you know it, af as time goes on, you're way further than you used to be. Yeah. Down the road that you don't want to go. Right. And the road that we don't want to go down is tyranny. And if you get attached to one side or the other, whether it's Nikki Haley or you get attached to Joe Bidet and comment, whatever it is, whoever your team is, you're going down that road even further. Yep. You're going down that road and they're gonna keep pushing and they, next thing you know, they're gonna have your fucking, your location. Every time you tweet something and you tweet something that might be a problem, someone's gonna physically visit you or your phone's gonna get shut off or your social credit gonna get dinged.

3 (1h 10m 7s):
Or like, that is our future. If we don't wake up, you're gonna have monsters in control of your life and you'll self-censor. And whether you are on the right or whether you're on the left as a human being, you don't want to give other human beings control over what you can say and what you can think and what you can look at and what you can talk about and where, how you can live your life and where you can go and what you decide to do with your money and what you decide to do with your time. All those things should be yours. They should be yours.

4 (1h 10m 39s):
So where, where does it, here it is. Yeah. This is, this was great.

3 (1h 10m 43s):
I think this is the first

10 (1h 10m 44s):
You get to terrible places, one tiny step at a time. You know, if I encroach, I if I encroach on you and I'm sophisticated about it, I'm gonna encroach two millimeters. I'm gonna encroach right to the point where you stop, start to protest, then I'm gonna stop. Then I'm gonna wait, then you're gonna calm down, then I'm gonna encroach again. Right to the point where you protest, then I'm gonna stop. Then I'm gonna wait. And I'm just gonna do that forever. And before you know it, you're gonna be back three miles from where you started and you'll have done it, it one step at a time. And then you'll go, oh, how'd I get here? And the answer was, well, I pushed you a little farther than you should have gone. And you agreed. And so then I pushed you a little farther than you should have gone again.

10 (1h 11m 25s):
And you agreed. And if anybody's interested in this sort of process, and this is a horrifying book, if you want to read about how this process works, you can read a book called Ordinary Man by Robert Brown.

3 (1h 11m 36s):
Boom. That's it.

4 (1h 11m 39s):
It's really that simple.

3 (1h 11m 40s):
It's really that simple. I gotta piss. Can we hold this? Yeah. Hold this. I gotta take a leak. We'll grab back. I got pee too. You ever shit in the woods? It's a wild

4 (1h 11m 48s):
Tip. Not naturally. I did a cheating.

3 (1h 11m 50s):
It was normal. You know, I cheated. I was reading this thing about India, they have a problem where people don't like to use toilets. They just like to shit outside. They use their, there's certain places they just, they've been shit outside forever. So they, they don't like toilets. So they're building toilets and people are rejecting 'em.

4 (1h 12m 6s):
I could see that

3 (1h 12m 7s):
Shit outside is fun. In

4 (1h 12m 9s):
The woods. I think so. Any any,

3 (1h 12m 10s):
It's it's the natural way to shit. It comes out so easy. It's like we Yeah,

4 (1h 12m 14s):
Because you're squatted down and it,

3 (1h 12m 15s):
That's why they make those squatty potty things. You know those? Yes. Do you have one of those?

4 (1h 12m 19s):
I don't.

3 (1h 12m 20s):
I have one. It helps.

4 (1h 12m 22s):
I'm sure it does. You

3 (1h 12m 22s):
Shit easier. Shit could,

4 (1h 12m 24s):
Man. I wake up. Good for you. Pang. Good for you. Then I have espresso P again.

3 (1h 12m 29s):
Bang double pang.

4 (1h 12m 29s):
Yeah. And then I'm good the rest of the day. And it's every as soon as I wake up. Nice. It's weird. I think it's good. I

3 (1h 12m 35s):
That's supposed to be that

4 (1h 12m 36s):
Way. It's supposed to be good, right?

3 (1h 12m 36s):
Yeah. That's a good thing. All right. That's, yeah. You wanna be regular? I'm regular. my friend Larry got backed up once for a long, he used to be one of the producers on Fear Factor. He tells the story, it's fucking hilarious. Oh my God. He, he like had to go to a doctor and they had to like chip it out.

4 (1h 12m 52s):
Oh

3 (1h 12m 53s):
Yeah. It dried up and it got compacted in there and he literally had to get it removed. What

4 (1h 12m 58s):
Do you mean? Like, get solid?

3 (1h 12m 59s):
Yeah, it got hard as a rock. So they gotta break it up in his

4 (1h 13m 2s):
Intestines or down

3 (1h 13m 3s):
His butt hole. Like at the door. Turling. Oh, you turling with a boulder

4 (1h 13m 9s):
Has it's too warm there.

3 (1h 13m 10s):
I don know what happens. don don't understand. I don't know what he was eating.

4 (1h 13m 14s):
Lot of cheese.

3 (1h 13m 15s):
Maybe don don't

4 (1h 13m 17s):
I

3 (1h 13m 17s):
Know what happened, but he got stuck.

4 (1h 13m 19s):
Have you ever heard of cheese right there? It's that flaming Greek cheese. The great

3 (1h 13m 22s):
Horse manure crisis of 1894. What is this? By the late 18 hundreds, large cities all over the world were drowning in horse manure. Oh, it makes sense. The London Times predicted in 1894 that in 50 years time, every street in London would be buried under nine feet of manure in New York. Makes

9 (1h 13m 38s):
Sense. In New York City, they had at one point 175 foot pile of shit. Oh my. That created in the range of 16 billion flies. It said,

3 (1h 13m 48s):
Okay, tell me that didn't cause the plague.

9 (1h 13m 52s):
No, it did. A hundred percent. Like this is what the roads look like.

3 (1h 13m 55s):
Oh my God. That's insane. That's all horse shit.

9 (1h 13m 57s):
There's also, each horse makes about a, a gallon of, or like a liter of piss every day. Oh,

3 (1h 14m 4s):
Oh God. So the ammonia smell on the streets.

9 (1h 14m 7s):
And then what happens when it rains?

3 (1h 14m 9s):
Oh God, it gets into the water. See, you

4 (1h 14m 11s):
See, I like, I root for nature what George Carron

3 (1h 14m 14s):
Say. Well, that's just people with poor planning. Like that's what I mean. Because when they built these wild west towns, they're like, okay, put a fucking house here. There's the road and Yeah. And, and next thing you know, it's paved. 'cause you have cars now and then the horses are shitting on the pavement. Yeah. What, like, what is this?

4 (1h 14m 29s):
I love when that happens.

9 (1h 14m 30s):
And they bite people. They bite people. They kick people. Oh yeah. Course they hurt little kids all the time. They don't.

4 (1h 14m 35s):
If you

3 (1h 14m 35s):
Were a horse be I would do that too. I'd

9 (1h 14m 37s):
Be pissed. And then they would die a certain amount would die every day. So they had to get like, removing dead horses every day from New York City was a whole Whoa

3 (1h 14m 43s):
Fucking problem. I drag 'em off. Where

9 (1h 14m 45s):
Are you gonna put 'em?

4 (1h 14m 46s):
I'd be pissed if I was a horse.

3 (1h 14m 48s):
Yeah. They should be pissed. The city, you know, there's a sizable amount of wild horses in this country.

4 (1h 14m 53s):
I mean the Carolina's didn. See 'em.

3 (1h 14m 54s):
There's a sizable amount in this country and there's a lot of debate on what to do with them.

4 (1h 14m 58s):
Well, what's the debate?

3 (1h 14m 59s):
Well, because if they get outta control and they, they're, they get overpopulated. The thing is, they could, like certain farmers have land that's their land for grazing for their cattle. And if the horses eat up all the resources, that could be a problem. There are, there was instances of animals cross contaminating. Like Bruce Osis is a real issue with buffalo. When the buffalo roam onto cattle ranchers land, they give brucellosis and the cows start dying off. That's a real issue. So that's one reason to, to contain them. But it's also, it's like every, like wildlife biologists, when they're objective, they look at a balance of nature.

3 (1h 15m 40s):
They don't, they don't look at it in terms of like, you know, what would the people like to happen? What they look at it like how many mountain lions can exist in this area and how many deer can exist in this area? And if there's a cer if the mountain lion's population exceeds a certain number, what impact does it have on the deer? And then what impact does that have on ranchers and people that lose their pets? Right. Because the, and then joggers, right? 'cause those things are happening next if You don't take it. So that's how a real wildlife biologist would look at it. So when wildlife biologists look at horses, they go, well this is a real fucking problem because First of all people do not want you shooting horses. Like, I don't, that is the one animal that I would never fucking shoot.

3 (1h 16m 20s):
I can't even imagine shooting unless I was dying of starvation. The idea of shooting a hor horses, to me that's like shooting a golden retriever. That's like, and maybe even more beautiful. 'cause they're, they're connected with people in a weird way. You ride them like you're very intimate with that animal. Those animals are amazing pets. Like, and, and then not just like, pet is the wrong word because they're a traveling companion that you feed and ride on. Mm. So it's, it is a pet sort of. But when they're well-trained and well taken care of, they're amazing animals. They come up to people. I've seen people that have pet horses and the the horse puts their nose and the guy's face, the guy strokes the horse's head. They have a beautiful, like, intimate relationship.

3 (1h 17m 2s):
The idea of shooting those things. Whew, bro. That's like shooting wild dogs. The only way I to shoot a wild dog is if it's attacking Why? Wild, wild pets like horses in in particular, they're like, we know what kind of a relationship you could have with horses. That's like going out and shooting wild people. You found wild people. Like just too many wild people. We start shooting them. Like what? It's almost like that with people with horses.

4 (1h 17m 28s):
I know and I. Think about that. It's like, see, I always go back to the question of when did, like, let's take a rancher. A rancher did ranchers and nothing. I'm just saying in general, this whole society, I'm all over the place. I'll get to it. Did ranchers, they ranch for other people or just themselves? Most of them.

3 (1h 17m 50s):
It totally depends on the rancher. Right. There's, there's some ranchers that what they do is they lease land. And so like they'll roam their cattle and then some of 'em, they put 'em on public land. Like I was hunting in Nevada on public land with my friend Steve Ella. We were bow hunting mule deer. So we're in this area and there's cows all over this area. Yeah. And these cows are all privately owned. And so they pay a grazing fee, I guess, right? There's, I don't know what the fee is. I don't know how that works. don don't know if don don't even know if they have to pay a fee. don don't know how that works. But the point is, they have the, the rights to let their animals graze in a specific area. And then when it comes time to harvest 'em or whatever the fuck they do, they, they round 'em all up and the cowboys come in there.

3 (1h 18m 33s):
So like real cowboys guys on horses. Yeah. It's fucking cool to watch. But that's so like, they're all over the place. So there's those kind of ranchers and then there's ranchers that have a contained ranch. So there's a lot of these out here in Texas. Yeah. Or like the guys at White Oaks pastures where they have a fully contained managed ecosystem and they have their cows out there. They roam around. They use the manure, they use the manure for fertilizer, they recycle everything. It all goes back into nature, including the dead bodies of the animals and the, the, the, the things that get harvested, the organs. Everything. It's, everything gets used.

4 (1h 19m 7s):
So I think I know, you know, I always go to, I always go, but you can't go back. When, when, when did it change and why did it change?

3 (1h 19m 18s):
Money could change with money. No,

4 (1h 19m 20s):
But I'm saying like, say me me and you we're sitting there and you got your little tribe there and I got my tribe there and yeah man, you go hunting, you come back and I, I'll make sure she get the steak right. Whatever. Everyone's helping each other out. You hunt, you gather and all that. When did, that's what always fest.

3 (1h 19m 37s):
You gotta, you even that that time. Like, and then even we were romanticizing that time. I

4 (1h 19m 42s):
Am romanticizing I don

3 (1h 19m 44s):
One of the most fucking brutal times ever watched show opposed to now show. Yes. You ever watched that show? 1883?

4 (1h 19m 49s):
Yeah. It was brutal. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (1h 19m 51s):
That's, that's Taylor Sheridan show the ass. Oh my God. They killed everybody. They killed everybody. Everybody died Duffy. Yeah. Up the ass. But those brutal people that were trying to make their way across the country, there's, that's brutal. That's, that's the knife up the ass.

4 (1h 20m 4s):
What's what's more brutal.

3 (1h 20m 5s):
You should see the video though.

4 (1h 20m 6s):
This is, this is, this is what is more brutal.

3 (1h 20m 8s):
Oh, they did that dude, they did that times a hundred. Right? We, we've been

4 (1h 20m 12s):
Brutal forever.

3 (1h 20m 12s):
Forever. Human beings have been brutal forever. Forever.

4 (1h 20m 15s):
We just don't eat the the We don't chimp it out though.

3 (1h 20m 18s):
We don't yet, we don't

4 (1h 20m 19s):
Go for the test. We don't eat those. But You don know. There might be some

3 (1h 20m 23s):
Out there if the meteor hits, if the meteor hits and we go back, we go back again. 'cause we've done it before. I guarantee we've done it before. I guarantee you at least in parts of the world, society is crumbled because of natural disasters and people resorted to barbarism and I. I think that's the reason why if you go further back in history, people were the most ruthless. You know, if people really did exist in a very sophisticated way, which is what I believe that it did exist somewhere around 11,000 B 800 years ago. And then before that. That's what I think. I just think particularly in Africa, I think if you look at the structures that exist in Egypt, there's no doubt about it. Some of those are old as fuck. and don don't think it's outside the realm of possibility that they're older than they think they are.

3 (1h 21m 4s):
Especially when you have geologists that are observing these deep water fissures. Like Robert Shock, who's done this work on thousands of years of rainfall must have created this. Which is that that pushes it back way to the point where there used to be rain in that area, which was like 9,000 years ago. So now we're in this area like, well how old are these fucking things man? Well, and I think if something happens. Yeah. And the, the world falls apart. I think only the monsters live. Only the monsters. Only the, the most psycho of psychos. Only the, the most evil dog eat dog people because they're probably cannibalizing at a certain point in time. I bet people are cannibalizing at a certain point of starvation a certain point.

3 (1h 21m 45s):
If, if there's like a nuclear winter, if like, when those things impact and the fucking sky is covered with volcanic dust for Right, right, right. For two years and nothing grows.

4 (1h 21m 54s):
You don got no guns and nothing.

3 (1h 21m 56s):
I guarantee people started eating people. I guarantee we are the each other ancestors of people who ate people. I think so. Yeah. I

4 (1h 22m 3s):
I would, I would buy that

3 (1h 22m 4s):
Dude. The Comanche did it. Well the Comanche didn't do it as much as some of the other Indians did it. But they, they would eat each other. They would eat their enemies. They would kill their enemy and eat his heart. They would do why yield shit right here. The Nez purse. Yeah. They would catch people and cook 'em and eat 'em in front of their friends. Oh yeah, man.

4 (1h 22m 24s):
Yeah. I mean they

3 (1h 22m 25s):
Did wild shit. Yeah. And they, they did it for fun. They did it to torture people. Oh. They would torture people. That's why Native Americans had no concept of surrender. Like surrender. They're gonna torture you and kill you 100%. You gotta fight to the death. Yeah. But don, you, you can't surrender, don't you?

4 (1h 22m 40s):
Would you, I think about this too, like, would you, if you knew your entire existence was gonna come to, if you felt like, you know what, these guys we've seen, they've, they've crushed it everywhere. There's no winning this. We fight to die or we become them. What are we doing? That's it. I can, I always think about that with certain societies. Even ours. We've never, ever, well, I can't say that, but have we come a time where you're willing to go, dude, we're not getting outta this one. We're not getting outta this one. So in the meantime, do we start taking out as, you know, doing as much as we can?

4 (1h 23m 21s):
Like how do, how do you I could see that.

3 (1h 23m 23s):
Well think about what the Native Americans went through in this country. That's what

4 (1h 23m 26s):
I'm saying. And

3 (1h 23m 27s):
Their polite was even more dire because we removed their food. We removed the food, we killed the buffalo. Right. So there was no independence anymore. They couldn't exist out there by themselves. Making

4 (1h 23m 37s):
'em sick.

3 (1h 23m 37s):
Yeah. Make 'em sick. Make 'em sick and take death, make 'em starve food.

4 (1h 23m 40s):
Yes.

3 (1h 23m 40s):
And then when the winter comes and you got no food, what the fuck are you gonna do? And then they offer you the reservation and they and they did that. They did that in this country. So there's your answer. Yeah. The, the the and the way they treated those people is beyond evil, the way they converted them in those schools. And that's, that's also detailed in 1923, that show

4 (1h 23m 60s):
I went to St. Augustine and there's this fort down there. And as I'm walking through the fort, you know, people, you know, tourists just always walk by and look at all the pictures and the things like, wow, this fort's cool. Okay. And on the, on the wall is all these little Native American little Indian kids just like traumatized, but in school outfits. And you see like, you know, the soldiers behind them. And I'm just, I sat there and watched it and went, bro, can you imagine, can you imagine, can you imagine how many kids you got?

3 (1h 24m 39s):
Three.

4 (1h 24m 40s):
Can you imagine seeing your children, like completely indifferent, completely hostages for the rest of their life. And they watched their parents get taken out in front. Like they watched their mom's throat gets slit or, or rape or burning them while they're alive. And now they're gonna, dude, can you imagine like seeing that or living that as a child and now that's what's gonna control you the rest of your life. That's heavy man. and

3 (1h 25m 14s):
It is also heavy what the government did when they, they took gullible people and they gave them land where the Comanche were. Mm. They let 'em move in. That's sc Gwen's book, the Empire of the Summer Moon. They just let these people build these homesteads. And then one day the Comanche came and just slaughtered everybody and they kidnapped people. The last Comanche chief was Quana Parker. And his mother was Cynthia Ann Parker. And his mother was kidnapped, but she was seven years old by the Comanche. And she wound up marrying the Comanche chief and she had a son that was Quana Parker. And he was the last Comanche chief. And then they, they rescued her when she was in her thirties. Right. And she kept trying to escape. Right. Go back to the Comanche.

3 (1h 25m 55s):
She was, she had become a comanche, like a full on Comanche and

4 (1h 25m 58s):
I just saw that. Did you talk about this

3 (1h 25m 60s):
Recently? Yeah, I talked to that many times. That's many times. Yeah. I can't stop talking about it. That, that 'cause that's where we are. That's this spot where we're at right now. That's if you drive like 10 minutes from here, you'll find like Qua Parker Road. Yeah. Like they named the streets after Comanches up here, you find, I have a friend who has a ranch up here. He finds thousands of arrowheads, and I'm not exaggerating, it's nuts how many he finds. He documents 'em all go to Jm Whitworth's Instagram. It's fucking wild. Dude. This guy finds thousands of them. He just sifts through the ground in his property. This had hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years of the Comanche riding horses, killing deer, living off the land.

3 (1h 26m 43s):
Living right here.

4 (1h 26m 44s):
I saw a meme and it was like, it was, it was a native. And he said, we breathe the fresh air, we live in the nature. We, our food is grown. We have everything at our resources, free water. We love each other. We constantly are, you know, tearing it up. All day they came along and thought they can do something better. Yeah. Look

3 (1h 27m 8s):
At this guy's page. He finds something

4 (1h 27m 10s):
To that.

3 (1h 27m 11s):
That's one of the ones that he found. Wow. Did you find his Instagram Jeremy private?

4 (1h 27m 14s):
Wow. Look at that. You

3 (1h 27m 16s):
Didn't find it. It's private. It's Oh, it's private. So these are just some of the ones that he's, he's posted up. He sent me some. I have one right here.

4 (1h 27m 25s):
Oh, wow.

3 (1h 27m 25s):
Yeah. That's legit. Good dude. So when they do that got a fucking amazing place. What did they make? What did

4 (1h 27m 32s):
They, is that, what do they make that out of?

3 (1h 27m 34s):
Different, different kinds of rock that they can chip depending on the place. Some points are like obsidian, some points are d different kinds of stone, flint, whatever they can shape into a point like this. It's a amazing craftsmanship involved in this too. And you gotta get it kind of in the same size every time. Because the whole idea is you're, you're judging just like when you throw a rock. Yeah. Like the way they would shoot arrows is, you know how you throw a rock and after a while when you're a kid, you know how hard to throw it to hit a specific spot. Right. You know how to aim. That's essentially what you're doing with a bow and arrow. So you have to practice all the time and you have to have the weight kind of semi consistent so you know where that arrow's going.

3 (1h 28m 17s):
Okay. So you know, this thing is that far away and in your mind, I have to aim up here. Right. And the arrow's gonna drop down, hit it in the vitals. Right. 'cause the whole thing of archery is it's an arc from the time it gets released, it arcs up and then drops down. And the whole idea is try to figure out how far that is and how far it's gonna drop. So it's a very intuitive form of hunting and it's a very spiritual thing. If you're doing this right. You're creating your own stones, you're making your own arrows, you're chipping the stones and creating these arrowheads out of them. You're tying it all together with sinew and then you're making this, and then you gotta practice and you gotta get really good at this thing. And then you gotta figure out how to sneak up on animals and just launch these fucking feather covered darts of death.

3 (1h 29m 0s):
Mm. And and it's one of the most, the greatest technological advent advantages of hunting that humans had ever created. Yeah. They created the ability to kill something that's really far away. Right. A good, a good archer can shoot something with a traditional boat 40, 50, 60 yards away.

4 (1h 29m 14s):
You're right. And a chimp can never figure that out. But if they did,

3 (1h 29m 16s):
We'd be fucked.

4 (1h 29m 17s):
We'd be

3 (1h 29m 18s):
Fucked off. We'd be fucked. They would just storm cities just shooting people for fun. They would 100% shoot you for fun. I agree. And oh, by the way, they'd eat your babies. There's been a lot of documented cases of chimpanzees eating human babies. Stealing human babies and eating them. Really? Oh yeah. Baboons too. Baboons of stolen babies and eating them. It's a real problem. Have you ever seen that video of this like little kid's wearing a diaper and they're out in the street and this fucking Oh,

4 (1h 29m 46s):
The, the monkey to steal him tries to steal the baby. Yeah. Tries to steal the baby. Yeah.

3 (1h 29m 50s):
This monkey pulls up in like a motor scooter and

4 (1h 29m 53s):
That's right. Yeah.

3 (1h 29m 54s):
And grabs the baby, tries to

4 (1h 29m 55s):
A little alley

3 (1h 29m 56s):
Drag it off. Yeah. Yeah. They have to chase the monkey to get the baby back.

4 (1h 29m 59s):
I remember that. Yo, so that's pretty sick. That's planet The apes right there. Imagine

3 (1h 30m 4s):
If he had a gun, he just bang, bang, bang. Just

4 (1h 30m 9s):
There he is. If

3 (1h 30m 10s):
That monkey had a gun hundred

4 (1h 30m 12s):
Look in front of his parents. Yeah.

3 (1h 30m 14s):
Rag. It's nobody's business. And then drag tries to drag it off. Wow. And it's moving pretty fast too, man. With something that's way bigger than him.

4 (1h 30m 20s):
And this guy's even he is how fast. And he's used to it because look at this guy, he's not even running. He's just like, what, what country are they in? It kinda looks

9 (1h 30m 28s):
At the monkeys actually being yanked back on a Oh,

4 (1h 30m 31s):
There you're right.

3 (1h 30m 32s):
Oh, wait a minute,

4 (1h 30m 33s):
Wait a minute. Play that again. You're

3 (1h 30m 34s):
Right, you're right. Oh my God. It's a stunt

4 (1h 30m 37s):
Watch right here. Right

9 (1h 30m 39s):
There. He barely got leveraged to do that.

3 (1h 30m 41s):
Yeah. How's he moving so fast

4 (1h 30m 42s):
And knowing that one arm and the car

9 (1h 30m 44s):
Starts pointing at it. Well, oh,

4 (1h 30m 45s):
Oh yeah, you are right. But where,

3 (1h 30m 47s):
So there would be someone behind him with a cable attached to him? Yeah. Wow. That's crazy. If that's true, I mean, what was, is there a harness on that monkey? Do you see a harness or anything? Not really, but it does look like something's pulling.

9 (1h 31m 0s):
Yeah. Around its neck. Right there around it neck.

3 (1h 31m 2s):
You can see something. Yeah. Boy, it does seem like something, his

4 (1h 31m 3s):
Neck goes this way. Did

3 (1h 31m 4s):
You see that somewhere? Did you just see that right now? I vaguely

9 (1h 31m 7s):
Remembered seeing something about it, but like, I'm just seeing it right now. I was like, what? That's, it looks

4 (1h 31m 10s):
Weird. Yeah. Look here. Look

3 (1h 31m 11s):
At, look at. How's it moving? Like where's it getting the leverage to move that way? Look how fast look it's getting dragged. Yeah, because otherwise, how would it have the leverage to move that fast?

4 (1h 31m 19s):
Look at the line. You could, you could sort of see. Oh, they could see it. Yes. You

3 (1h 31m 23s):
Could see it. Oh my god. It is. It's a cave.

4 (1h 31m 25s):
Dude, I fell for that too. Maybe's

3 (1h 31m 27s):
How monkeys steal babies. Maybe they use monkeys to steal kids.

4 (1h 31m 31s):
Oh,

3 (1h 31m 31s):
That's even scarier, dude.

4 (1h 31m 33s):
Wow.

3 (1h 31m 34s):
Maybe they've trained monkeys to steal kids. Maybe that's what it is. And then we just watched it.

4 (1h 31m 39s):
Wow. Nah, the guys with it. Well bro, that's, or they're showing everyone how to do it. This is how we do it here.

3 (1h 31m 45s):
Listen, that's totally

4 (1h 31m 46s):
Possible. We're just gonna show you how you do. You should do

3 (1h 31m 48s):
It. Well, can we agree that people steal kids? Oh yeah. A hundred percent. Okay. So if that's true, dude, I you want some croft?

4 (1h 31m 54s):
I think it almost happened to me.

3 (1h 31m 55s):
If, if people are so evil that they would steal kids, which is real. Thank you. Then you don't think they would train monkeys to help them? What? He crazy Of course they would. That's terrifying. Not only did your kid get stolen, the kid get stolen by a monkey.

4 (1h 32m 7s):
And they,

3 (1h 32m 8s):
What's this one? Jamie I know I

9 (1h 32m 10s):
Mean. I was, I was looking for proof and I found a different video of almost the same thing happened. A

3 (1h 32m 13s):
Monkey stealing a baby. This one's not

4 (1h 32m 15s):
On a leash.

3 (1h 32m 15s):
Oh, see these people ran that and

4 (1h 32m 17s):
They ran away from the kid.

3 (1h 32m 18s):
Oh my God. Oh,

4 (1h 32m 19s):
That's, that's real right there.

3 (1h 32m 20s):
Why did they run away? They ran away from that baby. That's so crazy.

4 (1h 32m 26s):
Is he trying to humble? And then

3 (1h 32m 27s):
The mom came by and the mom got the baby back. Look at he ain't let go. Oh my God. He didn't wanna let go of the baby. Wait,

4 (1h 32m 32s):
Put back with's kids.

3 (1h 32m 33s):
Oh my God. That's crazy.

4 (1h 32m 35s):
Wow.

3 (1h 32m 36s):
That's crazy.

9 (1h 32m 38s):
Oh, maybe. Yeah. Maybe it was a bunch of kids.

4 (1h 32m 39s):
Wait, why watch? It's about their

3 (1h 32m 40s):
Kids kids. Little kids steal that boy. Run around. Damn. That big run back fella. Save that fucking baby pussy. Yeah. If that's your sister, your little brother. Ew. Ew. Don't, don't show me that again. Alright,

4 (1h 32m 49s):
So but isn't that society, but you just,

3 (1h 32m 51s):
What do you think, how do you think you do? If a monkey was trying to steal a baby, you think you'd fuck up a monkey?

4 (1h 32m 55s):
Oh dude, I'd, I'd, I'd go for him. I'd start kicking hard. Mm. I know he'd come after me though, but I wouldn't, I'd be in it too late. He might tear my ass apart. But I'm now, if it was a chimp, I know, I No, you can never, never a a chimp. I'd do a lot of this. Ah, you'd

3 (1h 33m 11s):
Have no chance getting

4 (1h 33m 12s):
And then I'd lie.

3 (1h 33m 12s):
But I wonder how much chance you'd have against a monkey.

4 (1h 33m 15s):
I'd lie and say, Hey man, I tried to help. It is just, I couldn't get in there. Like

3 (1h 33m 18s):
I was looking at that monkey I was like, what would my strategy be?

4 (1h 33m 21s):
Well play it back. Can

3 (1h 33m 23s):
You play it back? Back? Yeah. Lemme see that again.

4 (1h 33m 24s):
I think I'd go straight forward if I had try to kick him in the head,

3 (1h 33m 27s):
The monkey that's on the stairs. I think I'm punting that monkey. I think I'm gonna let that monkey feel it.

4 (1h 33m 33s):
Yeah. I see. Kicking really hard in the head.

3 (1h 33m 35s):
Yeah. I'm gonna hin like right. You I'm gonna shin that monkey

4 (1h 33m 38s):
Kick him. Good. Right in his head.

3 (1h 33m 41s):
I'm gonna, or

4 (1h 33m 41s):
In his gut.

3 (1h 33m 43s):
I'm gonna power kick that monkey into another dimension. Yeah. But I'm gonna be ready for that thing to bite my dick. Like you, that's not a like a little thing that that 35 pound animal or whatever the fuck it is, has insane power.

4 (1h 33m 56s):
And it's fearless. It's fearless of, of these.

3 (1h 33m 59s):
See, you gotta right there. You gotta smash that monkey fearless. You gotta smash that monkey. You gotta really put the boots to him. And

4 (1h 34m 5s):
He also knows You don't have the power to fight. Like,

3 (1h 34m 8s):
Well, what you gotta do really is grab him, get him. You grab him by his back legs if you can,

4 (1h 34m 13s):
Or his tail, you

3 (1h 34m 14s):
Grab him. First of all, you kick him as hard as you can. But if you do get in a scramble with him. Yeah. You try to pile drive him into the ground. That's what you try to do. You try to smash him into the ground as hard as you can. Mm. Like that might be your only way out. It's gonna be hard to do. 'cause he is gonna recognize what you're doing. He is probably gonna be able to twist and turn and stop a lot of the force. But if you could figure out a way to slam that monkey into the ground over and over again repeatedly, I think you'd break it eventually, but he'd be biting the fuck outta you. That's

4 (1h 34m 38s):
A tough task. I'd go for the tail

3 (1h 34m 40s):
10 B biting the fuck outta you. He would be jumping for your face. But you gotta you gotta beat the shit outta that monkey.

4 (1h 34m 48s):
What about the tail?

3 (1h 34m 49s):
The tail thing is gonna turn around and bite you. It's gonna grab you

4 (1h 34m 53s):
Not the way they can

3 (1h 34m 54s):
Move.

4 (1h 34m 54s):
If you stop moving, they

3 (1h 34m 55s):
Move so much better than us. So you, you have to accept that this little thing is probably as strong as you

4 (1h 35m 1s):
See. I'm cocky right now. I'm confident I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna twirl 'em.

3 (1h 35m 5s):
I think those 35 pound monkeys are as strong as you and me.

4 (1h 35m 8s):
I'll double hand them

3 (1h 35m 9s):
How like a th like a how strong is what, what is that? A Reese's monkey. What kind of monkey is that?

4 (1h 35m 16s):
I know.

3 (1h 35m 17s):
I think I'd get fucked up. I think I might be able to kill it, but I think I'm getting fucked up along the way. I'm getting clawed at it's clawing at my eyes. It's trying to bite my face.

4 (1h 35m 26s):
I don't think it would get to your face though. That monkey I don't think get to Joe Rogan's face. I'm being honest with you. You could

3 (1h 35m 31s):
Be shocked at how fast and how strong a monkey is. And if you don't fucking move accordingly. And if you don't stop it while it's happening, if you allow it to get a grip on you, you might be really fucked. It might get your jugular. Like there's a video of this guy. There's this old man and he is sitting there on the ground and this monkey climbs on him. And he's like sort of accepting that this monkey's on him and this monkey decides to scalp him. So this monkey just clamps down on his head and peels an enormous slice of skin off this guy's head.

4 (1h 36m 2s):
What size monkey is this?

3 (1h 36m 3s):
A small monkey. A monkey like that monkey Like what we just saw. Exactly like that monkey. So what I'm trying to say is I think you're in, in your head. Yes. You're thinking, you see here, there's guy's complaining. Look at this guy. So this is the same kind of monkey, right? Okay. Yes. This guy's sitting there and watch this monkey.

11 (1h 36m 19s):
Oh shit. Oh

3 (1h 36m 24s):
Dude. Oh, it just bit him and took a giant chunk of his head off. So that's what I'm saying. This is what you're dealing with.

4 (1h 36m 33s):
Oh, damn.

3 (1h 36m 34s):
Yeah. You, you are not dealing with, wait

4 (1h 36m 36s):
A minute. Yeah.

3 (1h 36m 37s):
That's his, that's his head bro. Just bit into his head and took an enormous chunk of his scalp off. Yeah. And you just saw it.

4 (1h 36m 47s):
This is the

3 (1h 36m 48s):
Thing I, I think you need to reassess.

4 (1h 36m 51s):
Wait, wait. Let where

3 (1h 36m 52s):
You are with this monkey, watch this. It just bites him. And dude, it could do that to your face. It would grab your nose and you wouldn't be able to get it off your nose. Rip your fucking nose clean. Why

4 (1h 37m 2s):
Is his head bleeding?

3 (1h 37m 3s):
His head's not bleeding. Because that's what happens, dude. It bleeds outta the part where there's skin left. Jim Breuer, there's no skin. You're looking at skull, you're looking at skull. So all Come on Jim. All the things that bleed are now gone. That's the stuff that bleeds skin. So all the skin that is bleeding is the skin that's around it. And it's bleeding into the fucking cracks where his scalps were removed to his head. That's real as fuck. All

4 (1h 37m 27s):
Right. Maybe that's a new,

3 (1h 37m 29s):
I'm thinking that monkey might fuck you up. I think you have to really reassess what you think a monkey is. You can't treat a monkey like it's a little person. That's a way more ferocious, powerful thing. It's, you are looking at it proportionately. You we think we're pretty big in compared to that monkey. So we're stronger, but we're not. We're just bigger.

4 (1h 37m 47s):
All right. So when I, when I go for this fight for $40 million, you're gonna be my trainer.

3 (1h 37m 53s):
I'm not training you and we'll do it. Get killed. You're gonna get killed. You, you need years and you need to get on steroids immediately. What is the monkey type that bite that guy's head off? Because I think that's the same kind of monkey

4 (1h 38m 4s):
In this corner.

3 (1h 38m 5s):
We gotta get you on the full USADA protocol. I'm got comic cocky. Whatever you sawada says you can't take. We're gonna put you on it. I'm gonna have a

4 (1h 38m 11s):
Cape with a big monkey

3 (1h 38m 13s):
Head on it. I tore Belfort in his prime, just all tracks. Fuck it jacked.

4 (1h 38m 20s):
And here comes the monkey. And

3 (1h 38m 21s):
He still might get killed by that monkey. We might have to train you for a decade. Does the

4 (1h 38m 24s):
Monkey come in a leash?

3 (1h 38m 26s):
No. No. The monkey's free. The monkey's running. You're in a train for decade. Yeah. I I would have to train you for a decade. A full decade. We have to just to give you a chance. Just a chance to live. Really? Yeah. I think so. All right. I think you're dealing with a totally different thing. I think you think of it like it's like a little person, but it's not, it's not it's way stronger. Okay. It's way stronger than a person. I would way rather fight 150 pound man than a 35 pound monkey. Have I found I thought a, a

4 (1h 38m 60s):
Man. Well, yeah, you crush it. It's, you're talking about a well trained man.

3 (1h 39m 3s):
50 pounds less man than me. I like my odds way more than I like my odds against a fucking monkey. Look at that thing.

4 (1h 39m 9s):
Those are serious fangs. Dude.

3 (1h 39m 11s):
It's too strong. You don't understand how strong it is. You think it's little. So it can't be as strong as you, but it's as strong as you. And look man, stoned to death, stone. Death, death, death by monkeys in India, they threw rocks at him. They hit him on the head, chest and legs. They beat him to death with rocks.

4 (1h 39m 26s):
I'm a good pitcher, Joe. I bet

3 (1h 39m 30s):
You are. Look, if you had a weapon, I like you. If you, if you got something you could really fucking crack it with a baseball bat. I like you. But the thing is, man, if you don't and that thing bites you, you're fucked.

4 (1h 39m 40s):
Shaking me out. All right.

3 (1h 39m 41s):
If you got shorts on, good luck son. It's gonna rip a giant chunk of your thigh out. Well,

4 (1h 39m 46s):
These all rules we'll have to hash out. There's

3 (1h 39m 47s):
No rules with chimps, bro. There's no rules as, no, I'm

4 (1h 39m 50s):
Saying like there's rules. What am I allowed to wear if I'm with shorts? Or am I allowed to wear a little armor?

3 (1h 39m 55s):
I don. Dress like a helmet Knight. Am

4 (1h 39m 56s):
I allowed to a

3 (1h 39m 57s):
Helmet I don dressed like a knight.

4 (1h 39m 58s):
Yeah, but it

3 (1h 39m 59s):
Fair. I gonna fight a monkey a fuck. Fair a p Are you on team person or team monkey? What's fair? No. I

4 (1h 40m 5s):
Want,

3 (1h 40m 5s):
You don't have to be crazy to fight a monkey in a fair fight.

4 (1h 40m 9s):
No, you, no, you're right. I want cheat. So what kinda weapon

3 (1h 40m 11s):
Can I fight? The monkey's gonna cheat There's no fair. This is gonna be a dirty fight. It's

4 (1h 40m 15s):
Okay if I bring a bat.

3 (1h 40m 16s):
I want a gun.

4 (1h 40m 17s):
Nah. I know gun. I want a bat.

3 (1h 40m 18s):
No. Look, we're proving hockey stick. Proving something. We're proving something. Hockey stick. Human beings have figured this out. Bang. Shut the fuck up. You gotta get in a fucking arm. Wrestling match with the gorilla. I win. Boom. Shut the fuck up. We figured that out. Okay. Right. So all this, no, that's fair enough. Yeah. You don't wanna be fighting, but

4 (1h 40m 36s):
Fair entertainment value.

3 (1h 40m 37s):
But it just shows how weak we are. Yeah. No I know in comparison to what we think. Even strong people. What is this? A six month old girl was being breastfed in her mother's lap, in a courtyard room in her home, in a small village in North India. A population approximately 5,000. A macall entered the room through an open door, and apparently without provocation, snatched the infant from her. The monkey then proceeded to leap from the terrace to Terrace Holdings the infant Whoa. While being pursued by local residences. Wow.

4 (1h 41m 6s):
And it dropped it and it was

3 (1h 41m 7s):
Whoa. The monkey eventually dropped it. That's crazy.

4 (1h 41m 9s):
Oh,

3 (1h 41m 11s):
Barrow.

4 (1h 41m 13s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 41m 15s):
I'm telling you man, you don't wanna fuck with a monkey.

4 (1h 41m 17s):
All right. I think,

3 (1h 41m 19s):
I think it would, it would shock you. I had a chimp on news radio once and I don't even think that, that, I think that scene got cut from the final episode. 'cause it was some, something had to do with animals. So we had animals. And so we had this chimp on set and I did not have a scene with the chimp, but I was there. So I got to like hold onto the chimp and like, hang on, hang out with it. Yeah. Maybe I did have a scene with it. I don't remember. Whatever it was. This chimp was a baby in a diaper and it was so strong. Dude. It was hitting my back, just playing, you know, just tapping me. And I was like, whoa.

4 (1h 41m 54s):
Yeah. There was one on SNL and I got to go in the room, baby arm. And he kept saying, don't let him, don't let him nip at You. Don't let him. And he left me alone for like 30 seconds. Oh my God. And all I remember is the skull, skull is really hard. It was like a, it was like a coconut. That thing was very

3 (1h 42m 14s):
Powerful. Dude. They're, they don't, and they were a baby seal, just like you said. Yeah. It's a baby. but it doesn't feel like, you think a baby should feel like, it feels like a super athlete. Like when you touch their muscles, even though they're a baby, they're, they're so jacked. Yeah. Like you feel their little muscles. You're like, holy fuck man.

4 (1h 42m 30s):
You saw the no heroin, right? Yeah. That I mean that is, that's

3 (1h 42m 33s):
What it is. Yeah.

4 (1h 42m 34s):
That's just pure,

3 (1h 42m 36s):
Yeah. Natural. And no heroin that you see, like that one, if you think about the amount of muscle that thing has, it's probably like 180 pounds. You gotta multiply that times like four. And that's how strong it is in terms of people.

4 (1h 42m 50s):
Right.

3 (1h 42m 51s):
It's, it's a different thing. Even though it looks so impress. Like if it was a dude, if it was a dude that was built, but you wouldn fear. But you would fear it. No, what I'm saying, you

4 (1h 42m 59s):
Know what I mean? I'm fear it, but

3 (1h 43m 0s):
It wouldn't. But what I'm saying is you would go, that guy's fucking jacked. I bet he's strong. Yes. Well take what you think about a guy that looks like that and multiply times four. And that's how strong a chimp is. I got you. That's what's scary.

4 (1h 43m 12s):
Yeah. No, that's frightening. Alright. You convince me I'm not gonna fight the monkey.

3 (1h 43m 16s):
No one can fight a chimp, but a monkey, you might have a chance if you're a bad motherfucker. You know, if you're a good kickbox, like Khalil Rountree, he might fuck up a little monkey. You know? I think get him with some leg kicks. Yeah.

4 (1h 43m 30s):
I think,

3 (1h 43m 31s):
Yeah. Yeah. The monkey doesn't understand defense. Wha As long as you can keep it from biting your face, as long as you can keep it from just getting ahold of you and biting a chunk outta you because they, they will bite a fucking chunk outta you, son. You gotta have Kevlar clothes on. You gotta wear Kevlar clothes, Kevlar gloves. That's what I would say. But then your face, whatcha gonna do about your face. Your face is a real problem with a monkey. They're gonna go right for your eyeballs. They know what you see out of it. They're gonna rip your fucking eyeballs

4 (1h 43m 58s):
Off. Yeah. Because if your leg game isn't working and he's able to Exactly jump up like a

3 (1h 44m 2s):
Through the air and grab a hold of you, you can't get 'em off of you. You're fucked, man. Yeah.

4 (1h 44m 14s):
You know? Oh my God. Although it would be great. I'm sure. I'm wondering if they had stuff like that in a Roman empire. They did. They had people fight. Fight a little monkey.

3 (1h 44m 21s):
Yeah, I had, I bet they had everything. And we're not that far away from doing that right now, man. Watch, slap fight. We're not that far

4 (1h 44m 27s):
Away. No,

3 (1h 44m 28s):
You're right. We're not that far away of people just having I mean, there's, there's these organizations that have sword fights now. What? Yeah. People dress up like knights. They put full night armor on. Wait,

4 (1h 44m 38s):
My field in Russia, I've seen this. Russia and I didn't know if it was real or not.

3 (1h 44m 41s):
Oh, it's real man. I mean

4 (1h 44m 42s):
It looks like fighting. They really get hurt.

3 (1h 44m 43s):
They really get hurt. They beat each other with their shields. Yeah. They fuck each other up.

4 (1h 44m 48s):
Like, and they're using Axis too.

3 (1h 44m 50s):
No. Oh yeah. They're using all kinds of weapons. They're just using weapons while they're actually wearing armor.

4 (1h 44m 54s):
Here's serious'. Yeah.

3 (1h 44m 55s):
No, this using swords, bro. This is rough, dude. They fight and they fucking knee each other and kick each other and throw each other and get on top of each other and beat the shit out of each other. And they're doing it with armor on. It's wild man. It's wild shit.

4 (1h 45m 8s):
So we're slowly, slowly, slowly getting back. Look

3 (1h 45m 10s):
At this guy's hitting this until the

4 (1h 45m 11s):
Roman

3 (1h 45m 11s):
Empire in the head over

4 (1h 45m 12s):
And over. He's with the Shield.

3 (1h 45m 14s):
Shield. Yeah. He battered him with his fucking shield. He beat the fuck outta that dude. I mean. You don't think that guy felt that?

4 (1h 45m 19s):
Oh no. He's dones. Fucked

3 (1h 45m 21s):
Up. That guy's fucked up. He,

4 (1h 45m 24s):
Wow.

3 (1h 45m 24s):
He basically beat him to death with a shield. I mean. That's what we're saying. Like if the guy lives, he's gonna live. Barely. Look, he's still

4 (1h 45m 30s):
Down. He still ain't moving. He still ain't moving.

3 (1h 45m 32s):
He's not even Look, I mean that

4 (1h 45m 33s):
Guy's, his body's movie's dead. That's just the nerves. That

3 (1h 45m 36s):
Guy got destroyed by a shield.

4 (1h 45m 38s):
This is the one

3 (1h 45m 39s):
I saw. So this one, they're fighting with

4 (1h 45m 40s):
Access. This one I saw. I'm like, bro,

3 (1h 45m 41s):
Come on. This is so insane. This is so insane. People are fighting with axes. Look at this. How about their fucking hands? What if the gloves come off? Oh God, you need your fucking glove hack your hand hacked off. Why'd

4 (1h 45m 54s):
It go from there to there? Like,

3 (1h 45m 55s):
I guess they got honor. I skipped ahead. I was trying to fight. They got honor. They start again. Lemme see some of this. This is so crazy, dude. Oh my God. Slashing at each other with axes. Oh.

4 (1h 46m 9s):
Oh. All right. So they let you go once you're down.

3 (1h 46m 11s):
Thank God

4 (1h 46m 12s):
They just stuck in him right there. Still All you need is like one guy who, yeah.

3 (1h 46m 17s):
Sheets

4 (1h 46m 18s):
Got stuck in him. Just like, whoops. Sorry.

3 (1h 46m 20s):
It got stuck in him. Man.

4 (1h 46m 21s):
I didn't mean to juer. You like the hockey dude. Oh my God. Did you see that one?

3 (1h 46m 28s):
Which one? The hockey. Oh yeah. His neck got cut. I did see that one. That one's horrifying.

4 (1h 46m 32s):
Horrifying, horrifying. Yeah. Don't show. We're

3 (1h 46m 35s):
Find that too far

4 (1h 46m 35s):
Away from this show. I'm not.

3 (1h 46m 36s):
Don't show me that one. Yeah, that's

4 (1h 46m 38s):
Bad one.

3 (1h 46m 38s):
Yeah, but we're not that far. If, if people are doing that, how, how long before people do it with samurai outfits on, fight with Samurai swords and slice each other up. You know, that was one of the things that would distinguish Nazis.

4 (1h 46m 52s):
What do you mean?

3 (1h 46m 54s):
When the Nazis through Operation Paperclip when the United States acquired a bunch of Nazi scientists. Right. And brought 'em over here to work in nasa. Well you a conspiracy theorists. Yeah. Yeah. And one of the things we distinguished, you could know they were Nazis, is they, they all these distinctive facial scars. 'cause they did dueling. It was a big thing with the Nazis. So they would put these goggles on, see the scars they had in their face. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. These guys would put goggles on and they would sword fight each other with these very thin, razor sharp swords. Wow.

4 (1h 47m 28s):
Look at the gut.

3 (1h 47m 29s):
And it was like a badge of honor to have these facial scars. It made you look like a bad motherfucker. So all these guys had these massive facial scars. And that was one way where you could tell that someone was a Nazi. Look at that guy with the goggles on. So that's what they would look like after the fights. They would just get their face sliced up. And then, and

4 (1h 47m 48s):
Then what did become after

3 (1h 47m 49s):
This then get stitch backed up. They became our scientists. They worked for nasa. But these were Nazis. And this was something that Nazis did when they were younger. They would have these sword fights with goggles on. and it was like a sign that you were the real deal. You were the real deal. You got the big face guard, you fucking fought with a sword. Sure. It's a different level of commitment.

4 (1h 48m 10s):
Correct. It's like a, A gang. Another gang. You gotta take, you gotta, yeah. You gotta kill a guy on a Wednesday and bring me his ear back and you get a jacket.

3 (1h 48m 20s):
Google NASA scientist with Nazi dueling scars.

4 (1h 48m 25s):
We're gonna op, we're gonna face,

3 (1h 48m 29s):
Imagine you're trying to get to the Moon. You're like, I think it'd be amazing thing for mankind. Right. And then you have to, Charles, I'd like to introduce you to Dr of Heaven Stein. Oh, Dr. Heaven Stein. This is Marty. He's going to help you with all your needs with rocketry. And you look at this big ass scar on this dude's face, you're like, did you just bring a Nazi to help me? You bring a fuck. Is this a fucking Nazi?

4 (1h 48m 53s):
How bad do you want to be on science?

3 (1h 48m 55s):
Is this a real Nazi? Yeah. Look at this dude.

4 (1h 48m 60s):
Are you villain?

3 (1h 49m 0s):
Look at the scars on that guy's face. The first directive of NASA's, Cape Canaveral was a Nazi scientist. Kurt Heinrich Deus, also a participant in Operation Paperclip. So what happened was the war was over. And for whatever reason, Germany had some of the most incredible scientists. Man,

4 (1h 49m 18s):
Can I just say Yeah. If you look at, look at, go from Kennedy's Kenny, the guy with the, the Nazi. His face almost looks like this is not what I was promised. The other guy is like, Don, I guess that's a way Kennedy's like, what, what the fuck is going

3 (1h 49m 40s):
On right now? The guy with the shades on and right behind him with Singer, he's the guy behind him going, that's the guy that's in the grassy knoll. He

4 (1h 49m 46s):
Is doing it.

3 (1h 49m 46s):
That's the dude that Kennedy. A hundred percent. Look at him.

4 (1h 49m 49s):
Look at Kennedy's kidding. At his, his body

3 (1h 49m 52s):
Language. Grandpa, I'm kidding. I know who that

4 (1h 49m 53s):
Guy look at his body language. He's the only one with the body language going, wait, wait, what? What? What's going on right now? And then the other guy's like, yeah, this what they ditch the man with the face slid. I slid his face.

3 (1h 50m 3s):
What are they even talking about? Yeah. What

4 (1h 50m 5s):
Are they talking about?

3 (1h 50m 6s):
They sit between the Apollo

9 (1h 50m 7s):
One. This might be one that exploded or

3 (1h 50m 8s):
Something. I don? No. Did Apollo one explode? Or is it one, the one explode on the fire on the launchpad? Yeah. Something

9 (1h 50m 14s):
I just saw. Heard the video of it. Or

3 (1h 50m 16s):
Audio? Is that what it was? Audio.

4 (1h 50m 18s):
So like was that

3 (1h 50m 19s):
Apollo one? No, don don't believe Apollo one was in 63. Was it?

9 (1h 50m 22s):
I am just gonna check, but when I was clicking around for this guy, it said he was the, also the leader of Apollo one.

3 (1h 50m 29s):
Okay. But I don't think I know the Apollo. I think that was later. I think Apollo one was long after Kennedy had been assassinated. I believe so the Moon landing was 69. Oh, I see what you're saying, Gabe. So Apollo one was 67.

9 (1h 50m 45s):
I see what, yeah. So what? Yeah. Yeah. That's what it just said. So this wouldn't have been that. Yeah.

3 (1h 50m 48s):
Yeah. It'd be something else. But at the end of the day, there were Nazis 62

9 (1h 50m 52s):
Is what this

3 (1h 50m 53s):
Is. Yeah. They, they hired, they hired a gang in Nazis to figure out how to get to the Moon, including Werner von Braun. The head guy of NASA

4 (1h 51m 2s):
I know

3 (1h 51m 2s):
The Simon Weeds IAL Center.

4 (1h 51m 4s):
But a lot of people, You can say it a million times and they can look it up and they, and they and they absorb it. Yeah. But a lot of people still don't comprehend it. Which is, which is mind boggling because that, but but then you have to start questioning. Okay, so if we started back then, when did it really, really start? And then how involved. And it's, I, I think a lot of people are afraid to put that much time in a and and thought into, whoa, this is maybe, maybe there's a lot of things that have happened that we've been told and that we've been educated on by the very great professors and all the information and time's, not exactly what you may thought have been.

4 (1h 51m 55s):
And for some reason, I feel like so much of the population is they just don't even want to hear it or take the time because for whatever re it's too much. But

3 (1h 52m 7s):
There's a lot to sift through.

4 (1h 52m 9s):
It's a lot to sift through, but especially,

3 (1h 52m 11s):
There's so many different things to sift through. Right. Like if you wanna get into the Federal Reserve, like what is it, hold on I mean. Right. It's not a federal institution when you wanna like go into that. That's, it takes so long just to get into the Federal Reserve. Just to try to figure out how money works. Right,

4 (1h 52m 26s):
Right. And what is the, everyone still, how many people still think the Federal Reserve is federal?

3 (1h 52m 31s):
Most people It says federal in the name. It's, it's so crazy. It's

4 (1h 52m 35s):
Genius. Genius.

3 (1h 52m 36s):
It's amazing.

4 (1h 52m 37s):
It's Genius.

3 (1h 52m 37s):
It is Genius. I see. Because

4 (1h 52m 39s):
It

3 (1h 52m 39s):
Works. Yes. But it's also like one of those things, it's kind of grandfathered in. 'cause it's always been there, you know, since Nixon. Right. Was it, when? When did they institute the Federal Reserve before that?

4 (1h 52m 49s):
I feel like it was a long time ago.

3 (1h 52m 50s):
Nixon. But I, don Nixon is off the gold standard. Right? Was it Nixon?

4 (1h 52m 52s):
I don't know. I thought Nixon,

3 (1h 52m 53s):
Who took us off the gold standard? Was it Nixon or was it Reagan?

9 (1h 52m 57s):
I think it was Nixon because I think it was in the seventies. It was like

3 (1h 52m 59s):
71 I believe. Right. So when did the Federal Reserve get started? 1913. So the Federal Reserves quite a bit before that. Roger Wilson. It's all nuts man. It's all, this

4 (1h 53m 9s):
Is so nuts. This just said the

3 (1h 53m 10s):
Ryan, here's the nutty thing. The fucking crypto thing. The crypto crypto thing is so wild.

4 (1h 53m 17s):
I can't wrap my head around it.

3 (1h 53m 18s):
There's gonna be an amazing movie I guarantee with Sam Bankman. Free story. I mean, how do you not make an amazing movie about a guy who is worth fucking billions of dollars lived in The Bahamas and in a house with nine of his friends and they all fucked each other and they all did drugs constantly. And they openly talked about like taking amphetamines on Twitter. Like one of the ladies that is, she is testifying against him now. Caroline, whatever her name is, his girlfriend at the time. She tweeted about how when you're on amphetamines, like regular life, she seems so stupid. Something along those lines. Yeah, yeah. About like not being on amphetamines regular life seems so stupid.

3 (1h 53m 58s):
Like she was, they're getting whacked out all the time. Find that quote. 'cause I know what

4 (1h 54m 2s):
What butchered is and what is, this is a movie or a step? No,

3 (1h 54m 4s):
This should be a movie about it. Oh. Because these people, there's a crypto exchange and these people were making billions of dollars. But here's where it gets crazy. Okay. They were the number two donor to the Democratic party. Mm. So they're fun. They, they're getting away with this nonsense. They're doing it in a place where they're not subject to the same regulations. That's why they go to The Bahamas. And then they're just saying, listen, everybody can have a piece of this pie. And they just, they're just giving out pie. They're giving out pie. And everybody's like, this pie is amazing. And meanwhile everybody's going, where the fuck is my money? That quote. Yeah. Nothing like regular amphetamine used to make you appreciate how dumb, a lot of normal non-medicated human experiences.

3 (1h 54m 44s):
Wow. Of course. Wow. It's, it's definitely, but that's, you know, that's room for introspection. Hey, maybe I shouldn't be ripping people off. Like you're on, if you're on amphetamines all the time, you don't have time for normal introspection. Wow. You're fucking jerk. I wanna buy an island. I want my own fucking spaceship. Yeah. How much money do we send Democrats send more. We gonna pledge this year to send $1 billion. If the money's all fake, you can just send them a billion dollars. Like yeah, here's a billion dollars of this fake money that for whatever reason I have.

4 (1h 55m 18s):
Isn't it all crazy? It's nuts. So what do you do?

3 (1h 55m 21s):
It's nuts.

4 (1h 55m 22s):
So where do you go? That's all. Do you spend a lot of time going, alright, where's this, where's this all gonna go? So you gonna go really beautiful, but you're

3 (1h 55m 28s):
Only gonna have a certain amount of control no matter what. As an individual human being, you're only gonna have a certain amount of control. Yeah. My hope is that cooler heads will prevail. My hope is that as many other cataclysms and catastrophes were avoided through discourse and people waking the fuck up in the past, like the Cuban Missile Crisis. Right. Like all the, the shit that we went through when we were in high school and we thought every day the Russians and us were gonna go to the nuclear war. Oh God,

4 (1h 55m 55s):
We have how much to go under the desk and do the bomb due to nuclear bomb test, test. We

3 (1h 55m 60s):
Were all freaked out. Everybody didn't know it's my age and, and into younger. Like until the wall fell down, everybody was terrified that we were gonna have a nuclear war with Russia. A hundred percent. A hundred percent. Yep. It was a thing that was like in the air. and I, remember when the Soviet Union collapsed? I was like, Ugh.

4 (1h 56m 16s):
I know I

3 (1h 56m 17s):
Got Si. Like, yes, we got,

4 (1h 56m 18s):
There'd be

3 (1h 56m 19s):
No war less anxious in this country. Yes. Overall, people don't know that. No, you're

4 (1h 56m 22s):
A hundred

3 (1h 56m 23s):
Saying these kids today don't know what it was like to experience that every day when we were in high school.

4 (1h 56m 28s):
Yes. Even grammar school. Grammar school. Remember that started That started

3 (1h 56m 32s):
All through art. Art in all through school. Yeah. All throughout our schoolings. It was all, we were always worried about Russia. Everybody I know that I talked to, we had a people that grew up in Colorado, people that grew up in California. Everybody has the same stories. Yeah. So when that dropped off, man, that shows that things can get better. Yeah. Even if it was only better for a short period of time. And it's not even a short period of time, it's just, this is how things go. They go like this and then they go like this, and then we push back and they go like this and they go up and they go down. And you gotta constantly be trying to like, move it in a direction where there's the least amount of corruption possible. And that's fucking hard when people have control over things. And that's why you should fight against control.

3 (1h 57m 12s):
Because control is, it's never good. It's never good when they can just decide what you do and where you go. It, this is the fucking endpoint is always communism. If you just keep going, like Jordan Peterson said, keep going down that line, you get to a communist dictatorship. And when you hear all that kind of talk, and it's easy for people who don't have anything to go. Yeah. The people who have it, they should give it to the people who don't have it. Like, okay, who's telling you this? Yeah, exactly. The government is telling you this. Why? 'cause they want you to fight against each other. Right. This is all crazy talk.

4 (1h 57m 41s):
The, the billionaire is telling you and telling the masses, like, no, you should share for everyone, the guy with the four houses, that guy, how do you not half his face is starting to hang out.

3 (1h 57m 56s):
It's a fascinating

4 (1h 57m 57s):
Like, sorry,

3 (1h 57m 59s):
Exercise that he's chosen to engage in.

4 (1h 58m 1s):
Yes.

3 (1h 58m 2s):
If you, there's Oh,

4 (1h 58m 5s):
That he's, there's people like that. That may be, that's a big one. Well that's big, but it's getting fuzzy

3 (1h 58m 11s):
If you're playing that game. Right? Yeah. And if you're in that game, like that's what, when you have those guys, the speculators, the guys who are involved in what? Betting on businesses collapsing. Right. And you know, there's like a lot of people that are invested in destroying things. Hostile takeovers. They enjoy those things. They love it, bro. I, I had a friend who started a company as his own company and hired this guy, I think, I forget what his job was, but a high level executive. And then they tried to start a coup to get him kicked out of his own company that he started.

4 (1h 58m 43s):
And it happens all the time and again. and it, and it kept happening there. Battle.

3 (1h 58m 47s):
He had to battle it for a long time. It took a long time to get out from under it. And I was like, whoa, this is a company that he started. They, but that's what people

4 (1h 58m 55s):
Do. Do

3 (1h 58m 57s):
You think that's what people do? They they try to always get more and more power. It's just what people do.

4 (1h 59m 3s):
I, I always, I feel there may come a time, I don't know where, dude, it's gonna take a lot. Where we real, like we just have a game show where like we, we start, you start uniting people. I always say put a game show together, unite the people. Right. And you put the left on one side, a right side, and you're allowed to talk. You have to talk and you have to connect before the end of the day. You're gotta come out as best friend. But anytime you mention politics or something you think, you know, but you clearly learned it from you're emotionally involved, you get zapped, electrocuted, something like that.

4 (1h 59m 47s):
And it's just the whole game is alright. Like for instance, for for instance, if

3 (1h 59m 52s):
You bring up politics, you get zapped. Yeah.

4 (1h 59m 54s):
Like, for instance, because we need to unite, do you know what I mean? We need to unite. So like when we had no, when we had no supplies, okay. Remember, oh, we got no supplies. But you, you'd have a billion Trump boating parades. You tell me at that time how to put the two sides together. You could have took the Trump boat parades and you had to put on everyone that haze trump. And you get like, you know, you put and you go get the supplies and you've, but any time you have to connect, get the supplies without fighting about politics, the point of the story is, I'm all over the place.

4 (2h 0m 34s):
The point of the story is it doesn't matter how much you hate each other, how divided what you think about, we're all gonna connect the minute you un I feel we unplug from it all and ignore it all. I don't know how that all gonna connect

3 (2h 0m 48s):
Though. We're all gonna connect if there's another conflict. If there's a conflict on our shores, we're all gonna connect again. Whoa. That, that would be undeniable. If there was some sort of an attack, another nine 11, that would be what brought people together in 2001 would bring people together in 2024 when it, when it brought people together in 2001, it was shocking. Everywhere in LA everybody had American flags on their cars. It was a totally different vibe. And again, I hate to say it 'cause I don't want it to happen. No. But when people realized like, what's really important and that it's not all this bullshit that people are fighting about all the time. Yes. I think that's, I used to think, I used to joke about the idea that intelligence agencies would infiltrate areas of society and ruin them to keep people fighting against each other.

3 (2h 1m 37s):
I'm like, why would they do that? Why would they do that? I know, they don't have the time to do that. But now I think they definitely have done that. They fucking, they've definitely done that. So that, that's kind of a crazy thing when you've got something that's working for the people And, and against the people on the people's money.

4 (2h 1m 55s):
And I think a lot, I know this sounds crazy, but I think a lot of that has to do with spirit. Like what you said, when everything went down, everyone looked at the, the, the firemen, the police officers, everyone that helped as hero. There was a spirit, there was a spirit that united people that wanted. Now going into conflict was a whole different story. and I also felt over the next couple a, after that spirit, I almost feel like, oh man, we the bad guys. They didn't expect that much spirit from us to look after each other. And then the next years they're like, now we gotta demonize the police and demonize. So now they started all this complete chaos.

4 (2h 2m 36s):
and I do hope what you're talking about. Like if, God forbid, I, I pray to God. I think we all do. No one ever wants violence of anything. But I hope that's not what we need to make our spirits come alive. I really do. I think

3 (2h 2m 55s):
It's not necessary. It's

4 (2h 2m 57s):
Not, it's possible

3 (2h 2m 58s):
Necessary. It's possible that we can get our shit together without that. But I know, it's, I think that when things happen, that was initially in the beginning of Covid, I was hoping that was, I was hoping that would happen. I was hoping it would unite people. It had the opposite effect. But I, I was hoping when the country got shut down that people were gonna be cooler to each other. 'cause they realized like, hey, under the threat of something that none of us can control, that could take our loved ones away. We all have a shared interest in common. And that's keeping society running and getting back to normal again. I think I was hopeful.

4 (2h 3m 30s):
I well

3 (2h 3m 31s):
'cause I had lived through nine 11, I remember what that was like, that after those days, like I remember people were genuinely nicer for months, for months, for a long time after nine 11. All the whole, all over the whole country, everywhere you went, people had, they were cooler.

4 (2h 3m 47s):
You're no, you're a hundred percent right. And but I do feel what that time did, at least for me, it taught me how judgmental I am. It taught me how much anger I still have in me. It taught me how much resentment I might have towards people. But what it did do, like I nine

3 (2h 4m 3s):
11 did that.

4 (2h 4m 4s):
No, no, no, no.

3 (2h 4m 5s):
Yeah,

4 (2h 4m 7s):
We formed, like I would go to this coffee shop and I've been going there forever and ever and ever. And one friend, I talked about it a while ago, but that group, and they still hang out all the time. There's a lot of differences in that group. Like we, there was a couple of us, there was one or two of us that would go around and round with vaccines and blah, blah, blah, and what are you with this? And, but, and I tried to explain. But the point of the story is, I remember a moment where we were all sitting together. There's like 25 of us, dude, do you know what it's like for guys to hang out? But when you add wives and there's nothing against women or what, but when you start pairing up couples Mm. And they start hanging out. We started hanging First of all this group would hang out every day.

4 (2h 4m 50s):
All different walks of life, all different walks of life, all different financial brackets. And then after a while, you know, we played whiffle ball to do whatever. We hang out. We were like, we gotta do something besides drinking. We start finding more things to do. Then it brought us close and we started bringing the wives. And then all the wives started hanging out. And then we started having big gatherings. My house and my friend Tom's house. And we'd have, and we all looked at, this guy needs his, you know, his basement. Everyone's, Hey, this guy's going to the airport. and I went, oh, hey, this one's mother's having some issues. And we'd all, and I'll never forget, a really cool moment was, we were in Mor, we were in Morristown, New Jersey. We were all sitting down and my friend Basil was saying big, big guy from Greece.

4 (2h 5m 34s):
And he's sitting there and I'm looking like, I go Basil. Like how did, how did this happen? Like, this guy's a lawyer. This guy's a nine 11 fireman. my friend Joe, this guy's a fireman. This guy's a landscaper, this guy's from this country. And he just simply said, you know why Jim? Because no, he said, he's like, nobody thinks who they are. and I feel like we live in a society where not only do we trust, we put way too much trust in people who think who they are. What do you, what do you mean by that? What I mean is you're, you are one of the biggest voices in the world.

4 (2h 6m 21s):
You don't walk around the streets. You don't, you don't meet me backstage. You don't talk to the people that if you're gonna go the deli, you don't act like you are one of the biggest, a ball player. There's two ball players. The billionaires, one comes in a lawyer, two lawyers come in, one guy thinks he deserve. Do you know who I am? I'm the biggest lawyer in the world. I'm the big, I'm the judge. I'm the, do you realize I'm the CEO? Do you realize I'm the, the top veterinarian and the blah blah, blah? Do you realize those people have been trained to a so a mindset that closes them, oh, this guy's below me. What does he know what I mean?

4 (2h 7m 2s):
This group, the reason we got along, and I'm okay with him being a pusher of vaccines. I'm like, you know, it's all right. I still know the human side of you. This guy's pushing his electric cars. I, which I think is the most ridiculous thing in the world, but you know what? It's getting him and this guy through and blah, blah, blah. And at the end of the day, when we really need each one, one another, when it came from family or an issue or tragedy, we didn't care about any of that. We didn't care that I was a comedian. We didn't care about any of us. What we did. It was that spirit and nucleus of, of just us being pure humans and caring with our hearts after one another rather than giving a shit what we do for a living.

4 (2h 7m 45s):
And do you know who I am?

3 (2h 7m 47s):
I'm not gonna sit here while you disparage your extra cars.

4 (2h 7m 51s):
I'm just, Hey, I got one. I got one.

3 (2h 7m 52s):
They're the shit. I got one Jamie, I

4 (2h 7m 55s):
Got one. don. Don't think it's fully electric. Do you see the

3 (2h 7m 57s):
New GWA stuff? Oh yeah. They got a hybrid. It's not mine.

4 (2h 8m 0s):
It's a

3 (2h 8m 0s):
Hybrid, but it does this 360 maneuver. Oh yeah. Yeah. Then those gwas are outta control, but it's got electric stuff on it. Yeah. You ever see the G wagon squared? It's like, for people that don't think a GWA is showy enough, they get a double size gwa. Right.

4 (2h 8m 12s):
But the point is, I don't don't care about electric cars. You know what I mean, bro? They're amazing. I don't let that go.

3 (2h 8m 16s):
They're amazing.

4 (2h 8m 17s):
Well, I I get it. I have one too. Which

3 (2h 8m 19s):
One do you have?

4 (2h 8m 20s):
I have the, the, the Chevy Bolt. I, my daughter drives it. My daughter drives it. Get a Tesla.

3 (2h 8m 25s):
And it's awesome. You need to

4 (2h 8m 26s):
Drive a Tesla. I don't want Tesla. No.

3 (2h 8m 27s):
Drive a model. I

4 (2h 8m 29s):
Have I. don. I have no interest. It's, it's aship. It's a spaceship. I like pumping the gas in E wagon. I do too. I enjoy it.

3 (2h 8m 37s):
Jimmy,

4 (2h 8m 38s):
I, again, I've been in this, my friend. I, Tom scares the shit outta me. You go like, it drives by itself and looks, don't

3 (2h 8m 43s):
Do I. don do. I don't do that. don don't do that. But I do it occasionally, but I keep my hand right there. I really do. Most of the time I like to drive it. But the thing is like driving it is

4 (2h 8m 52s):
I know

3 (2h 8m 52s):
Extraordinary.

4 (2h 8m 53s):
It's like being on a rocket. Watch this. Zero to a thousand.

3 (2h 8m 57s):
You don't have to do that. That's not what I'm saying. The way it just integrates with traffic, not just going crazy like a maniac and doing something horrible. It's a different game. It's playing a different game. It can go to places where your regular car can't go. It can merge way faster than your regular car can and not cause any problems. You know, you have to speed up to get on the highway speeds. Everyone's going 70. You fuck it up for the people in the right lane. Yes. Not with that car. You are like,

4 (2h 9m 21s):
Joe, I live in Florida. Everyone's 70, 80 years old. I I ain't in a hurry.

3 (2h 9m 27s):
I know You're not in a hurry. It's not about being in a hurry. It's, it's about the wonder that you feel, I get it. When your control of this immense technology. I have been a gearhead my whole life. God. I had muscle cars when I was in high school. And as soon as I started making money, I, the, one of the first things I wanted to do is get a dope car. Okay. I love cars I know. So I'm not an anti combustion engine guy. I love those things. Yeah. My favorite cars are 1960s to early 1970 muscle cars. Yeah. Those are my favorite cars by far. But they are dog shit compared to a Tesla.

3 (2h 10m 9s):
The way that thing moves.

4 (2h 10m 10s):
It's just,

3 (2h 10m 12s):
I agree. If a, if a muscle car could move like that, oh my god. Even the best, like when they take a car and they retrofit it with all this ama these amazing parts and they make it a, a resto mod with a modern engine and modern brakes there. It can't fuck with one of those electric cars. You know what it is? Those things, those things are on a totally different level.

4 (2h 10m 31s):
Maybe I'm, you know what I'll admit, I'm a little, little intimidated, almost like my kid trying to show me how to use my phone. I'm like, don don't want, it's too many buttons. Yeah. I don't wanna deal with this. Those

3 (2h 10m 42s):
Things are easy.

4 (2h 10m 42s):
I love getting in someone's Tesla. I love that. And they get the hole. You just press the

3 (2h 10m 48s):
Button. Do you know how to make a phone call with your phone? Yeah. Do you know how to send a text? Yeah. You could drive a Tesla. It's not hard.

4 (2h 10m 54s):
No I know that the screen's this big too much

3 (2h 10m 56s):
For me. It looks great if you're fucking looking at the navigation. No I'm not. It's the greatest screen ever for navigation. You're looking at a literal iPad in front of you. I believe it. It shows you all the roads coming up. It's fucking fantastic. I believe

4 (2h 11m 6s):
It. I I'm not, you can't

3 (2h 11m 8s):
Be scared If you're gonna drive, drive one once, drive one once. You'll drive it and you go, oh shit. Okay. This is amazing.

4 (2h 11m 16s):
I it's a future.

3 (2h 11m 18s):
Jamie, talk to him about your plaid.

4 (2h 11m 19s):
I agree with you.

3 (2h 11m 20s):
Tell him, tell him how, how it feels. Here's

9 (2h 11m 21s):
My, I can't sell it better than you just did. The, the leg.

4 (2h 11m 24s):
You just, you sold it. Leaving a red

9 (2h 11m 25s):
Light is the best. It's

3 (2h 11m 26s):
The best. The light turns green. You're like, bye.

4 (2h 11m 30s):
We,

3 (2h 11m 31s):
We, if you're in the front, you're like, we, you're going 70 miles an hour before they hit 20. It's just no gears. I got it. It's one gear. I got it bro.

4 (2h 11m 40s):
I got it.

3 (2h 11m 41s):
Talk to me. It's

9 (2h 11m 42s):
Fun when someone thinks like, oh, a Tesla, pull up next to me. Watch this. And they're,

3 (2h 11m 45s):
Oh dude, I remember I was in my GT three Rs try. I have a GT three Rs that's built by Shark Works. They take a regular GT three Rs and they juice it up to 518 horsepower. and it sounds like a dragon. And this dude in a silent model three just zip past me. I gunned it man. I,

4 (2h 12m 3s):
I tried to keep up with this guy. You're not kicking me out.

3 (2h 12m 6s):
I didn't have a chance in hell. He was way faster than me. Yeah. And that car is fast. Yeah. It's a literal race car.

4 (2h 12m 13s):
Yeah, I believe you. It's

3 (2h 12m 14s):
A fast car. and it was nothing compared to that little extra car. It went wee.

4 (2h 12m 18s):
Bye. See ya. I got you.

3 (2h 12m 19s):
Bye. Bye. You look stupid making all that dumb noise. Remember,

4 (2h 12m 25s):
I, I'm three lights behind you. But the thing is, I'm still three lights behind you. Life is

3 (2h 12m 29s):
Not a race. And the thing about cars is what I always tell people, if you really want to enjoy a car, what you want is a car. It doesn't have to be the fastest car. You want to get it down to where you feel the most about what's going on. That's what driving a car is really all about. The more numb it gets. Like a Tesla's kind of numb. It's electric. It doesn't make any sound. It's, it handles really well. 'cause it's got all these computers that are calculating everything and amazing suspension. Yeah. But those old cars, you feel everything, you feel near your ass when you're going around a corner, you feel the weight distribution of the car. You know where the breaking points of the tires are.

3 (2h 13m 9s):
You know exactly how much pull you have to have. Especially if you have a manual steering car, like an old car that has manual steering like an old Porsche. Yeah. Those things are magical. Like they're not fast man. They're not fast. Like I have a 1993 Porsche. It's a 9 6 4. Yeah. It's got like 300 horsepower. It's not fast. It's, but it's magical to drive. You feel everything, man. It's like you are on a ride. You're feeling the bumps on your ass. You're feeling the fucking, the tires you're literally in connected to how they're gripping the road. It's feedback's going through your fingers. Yeah. You're feeling the engine rev in your foot when you hit the accelerator.

3 (2h 13m 52s):
You're feeling it. It's not fast, but it's insanely enjoyable. Yeah. Because you are connected to this mechanism. You're connected to this pinnacle of engineering. And the irony is, as we've gotten better at engineering, we've removed the enjoyment of driving a a raw car. Raw cars are the most enjoyable thing to drive. Okay. At least for me. I got you. Like my wife doesn't want nothing to do with those stupid cars. I know, I know. Fucking stinky I know she loves a nice electric car. We no noise wee. I

4 (2h 14m 27s):
Get it. I'm in.

3 (2h 14m 28s):
A lot of people don't like it. It,

4 (2h 14m 30s):
It has nothing to do with liking.

3 (2h 14m 31s):
But if you could drive a 1970 Porsche a good one with a real good suspension one that's been done up a little bit. So it handles better. Oh my God. That's the way to go. 2,200 pounds. You can get one that's 2,200 pounds. Oh, alright. It doesn't need much horsepower. Like 2 60, 2 70. That's all you need. I'll look it up and you just, I'm telling you, if you did it, it'll change your life. Alright. It'll change your life. I'm

4 (2h 14m 55s):
Not gonna, I'm not gonna debate it with

3 (2h 14m 57s):
You. It's not something you go to the grocery store with. It's something like Jim's gotta clear his head.

4 (2h 15m 1s):
Is that what it's

3 (2h 15m 3s):
Yeah. You're on a ride.

4 (2h 15m 4s):
I'm a park judge.

3 (2h 15m 11s):
And you're feeling it. And roll that fucking window down. 'cause you gotta do it like this. You gotta roll that bitch. You gotta actually crank it.

13 (2h 15m 19s):
You're

3 (2h 15m 19s):
Feeling the engine behind you.

13 (2h 15m 22s):
Ah,

3 (2h 15m 23s):
You're on the fucking highway. Woo. Jim's on the highway.

4 (2h 15m 27s):
Mine's getting slower. Yeah, mine's mine. The windows coming down.

3 (2h 15m 31s):
Show me Magnus. Slower walker. Magnus Walker takes his Porsche out on the highway. I think he took it out on the one 10. This is this dude, this is a perfect example of this guy. Yeah. This guy collects these old Porsches. He's this dude who made a bunch of money in clothing and textiles and shit. Okay. He's got this, this business now where he just makes Porsches, Porsches. He takes these Porsches and makes them these outlaw cars. So he juices up the engine into, okay. But he, they're little. These little tiny light cars. Look at watch it, listen to him. Drive it. Yeah. It

14 (2h 15m 59s):
Doesn't matter what you drive and share the same common passion. And that ultimately is to get out and drive

3 (2h 16m 7s):
This dude's in a little ride, son that ain't a car.

14 (2h 16m 10s):
Always following your passion and doing things that you love to do.

3 (2h 16m 14s):
Let me see if you could scoot ahead to, this is a long video to him. Drive. Where's driving? Driving?

4 (2h 16m 18s):
Where is this? 9 24?

3 (2h 16m 19s):
Don don't know. He's from England, but he lives in, in California. He's got this dope. I've been to his place. He's got a dope warehouse in downtown LA and he keeps all these Porsches in. I went and visited him. So just show him driving this fucking thing. So here's he's work here is, this is what I'm talking about.

4 (2h 16m 40s):
Okay. This, I shouldn't pay attention to

3 (2h 16m 42s):
That. This is what I'm talking about. And this is an old turbo. This is a, this is a wild little car. They used to call those widow makers. 'cause when you go around a corner with those things, they have a 10, it's all rear weight bias. So they whip around and do a fucking 360 and you smash into things. All right. People don't know how to drive. These things get fucked up. But

4 (2h 17m 0s):
Downtown

15 (2h 17m 0s):
LA around Bunker Hill is actually pretty steep. And a lot of those road,

4 (2h 17m 3s):
This guy's flying

16 (2h 17m 6s):
Over the one 10 freeway

3 (2h 17m 8s):
Necessarily. See, he drives late at night, man. He gets out late at night when there's no one on the road. He takes these little wild Porsches out. This motherfucker's in a video game. He's in like a real live video game. Look at this

15 (2h 17m 21s):
Bottom out.

3 (2h 17m 22s):
The thing about those cars is You don't even have to drive them fast for it to feel like you're going fast. Okay. Because you're so connected to 'em. If you're driving 50, 60 miles an hour, it feels like you're going a hundred in a regular car. It feels wild. 'cause you, you feel the speed. They're light. This is one of his best ones. This little thing's super light I mean this dude is on a ride, son. He's not in a fucking Buick. Listen to that thing. He's downshifting rev matching. This motherfucker knows what he's doing. He knows how to drive one of these things. That's a little piece of art. That's a different experience.

4 (2h 18m 2s):
That's his, that's your zen.

3 (2h 18m 5s):
That's so much different than driving an electric car. That's the total opposite of an electric car because it's not the most efficient. Right. It's not the most tech, the biggest technological marvel. Right. But it's the perfect balance of fun and feel.

4 (2h 18m 21s):
I got

3 (2h 18m 21s):
You. And transportation. I got

4 (2h 18m 23s):
You.

3 (2h 18m 24s):
Just makes my dick hard.

4 (2h 18m 26s):
See? Woo. I'm the opposite with a bicycle ride at night.

3 (2h 18m 30s):
That's a great thing too. Yes. That's a great thing. That's not the opposite. That's a beautiful thing.

4 (2h 18m 34s):
Taking a bicycle ride, pitch black. No one out to a bicycle ride. Peaceful. It's beautiful.

3 (2h 18m 39s):
A bicycle ride at night is amazing.

4 (2h 18m 41s):
Not not no. Spent a ride ride. Yes. Just get on a

3 (2h 18m 45s):
Bike and just drive around.

4 (2h 18m 47s):
Clear your head. Yeah.

3 (2h 18m 48s):
Yes. You know what I've done too? It's nice. What's that? Jet skis on a lake at night. Ooh. Not going fast. Just tooling around, bro. It's

4 (2h 18m 56s):
Tooling around. I want jet skis Nice. Not that I want, I would love if I had the opportunity. I think jet skis rather than a boat.

3 (2h 19m 4s):
Jet skis are amazing because you can go so fast on those fucking things and there's no risk. Well, there's a risk. You could definitely hurt yourself if you fell. But not nearly the same kind of risk if you're on a motorcycle, but you're like on a motorcycle, just on a motorcycle on the water. But it's really balanced. Like they're fun. All

4 (2h 19m 21s):
Right. So here, here's my thing with Fast this, let me tell you, when I stopped at the fast, I was a fast guy. This is one of those weird moments. I'm being dead honest. Okay. I just got my new car. Swear to God. Right? I'm doing a gig. I'm out and I and this freaks me out. This is why. So I go do the gig and as I'm driving back, it's about don don't know, 1 32 in the morning's, way out Long Island going back to Jersey. 'cause it's striking distance going back home as I'm in the left lane. Okay. Hit the rain, it's dark, blah, blah. I'm with my friend Rob. I'm flying. Oh no. Because I love going, I'm hitting 90, 95.

4 (2h 20m 4s):
To me. That's awesome.

3 (2h 20m 5s):
And it's raining.

4 (2h 20m 6s):
Yeah, it's raining and, but it just finished raining and now I'm on the Jersey side and I all my life as I'm driving the inside goes, Jim go in the middle lane. I'm not talking about dude and I and as I'm middle lane and he doesn't even know I'm having this conversation in my head. Right. I'm saying I go into middle lane. I, and it goes not only the middle lane just because of the car. Just slow down in life, Jim. Right. So this, this is my wackiness. I go into the middle lane on my life, Joe, on my life.

4 (2h 20m 47s):
This freaked me out. The second I got in that middle lane, there was a car, all the lights off.

3 (2h 20m 54s):
Oh no.

4 (2h 20m 55s):
In the left fucking lane. Oh no. Just sitting there. Oh no.

3 (2h 20m 59s):
And I went

4 (2h 21m 0s):
And the two of us went. Holy shit dude. Dude, if we didn't fucking move to the middle lane, we would've fucking hit that. And then I noticed as we were going, it was a bunch of cars on the side. So don don't know what kinda accident broke out, dude. That I

3 (2h 21m 14s):
Had the exact same experience.

4 (2h 21m 15s):
That shit happens to me. and I don't at it as

3 (2h 21m 17s):
Exact same experience. The exact same. It was me and my friend John. We were driving in New York and we were coming home from playing pool. and I was in the second to left Lane. and I saw it up ahead 'cause it had very dull hazard lights. There were, the battery was dead. So the hazard lights were very dull. I didn't see, and I saw it and I went, oh shit. and I changed lanes. And then I looked behind me in the rear view mirror and I saw a car. Hit it just full on. Yes. Boom. Yes. Spinning outta control. Yes. Boom. Another car hits. We, we watched this fucking pile on happen right behind us. Dude.

4 (2h 21m 51s):
I what the, the fact of what I, I go far out there where like, what, what made me at that moment say get in the middle lane. Right. I didn't even see it. I didn't even see the light. So that's why I know you love the Fast. I'm not don don't have that adrenal. Yeah. But

3 (2h 22m 9s):
I'm not into doing that. You don't understand that. I'm not into like, going fast on the highway. No. You know

4 (2h 22m 13s):
What it's, what

3 (2h 22m 13s):
I'm really interested in is input from a car. I don't need to be going fast. I like a car that let's like where I like muscle cars, they give you input. There's a field you have when you're riding 'em. You don't have to ride 'em irresponsibly. Yeah, yeah. To enjoy it. Yeah. You're just, you're connected to the machine. Yeah. It's just a different, it's a different thing. I got

4 (2h 22m 32s):
It.

3 (2h 22m 32s):
It's just a different

4 (2h 22m 33s):
Thing. I got it. Sad. I don't mean

3 (2h 22m 35s):
You should be driving irresponsibly. You know, that's No,

4 (2h 22m 38s):
It's set that what

3 (2h 22m 39s):
He's doing. The thing, the thing that he's doing I mean he's really doing that on these open roads. And he's calling on the

4 (2h 22m 46s):
Highway, but it close it down or he is got it down to with science. don don't there, I

3 (2h 22m 49s):
Think he just goes really late at night. I think that's the move. I think if you're like a, a city dweller and you live in downtown la there ain't shit going on there at night. Everybody. And there's no one there at night. Right. Downtown LA is weird. Dude. It's weird. 'cause you think like downtown, wherever New York City. Oh my God. It's gonna be hopping, it's gonna be restaurants and people. Downtown LA is a zombie movie. What do you mean? It's a full on zombie movie. It's the craziest homeless population on Earth still. Oh my God. Dude. If you ever been down to, I avoid it. Those side streets that are complete Skid row. I been where they're totally covered with people. No, I didn't kidding it at all. Dude did. I saw it in like, I was filming Fear Factor there in like 2003.

4 (2h 23m 33s):
That's how far back it goes. Yeah.

3 (2h 23m 35s):
Yeah. 2003 there was Skid Row. It, it's way before that. Yeah. There's a documentary on that hotel. What's that hotel called again? Jimmy Cecil. The Cecil Hotel. That was that hotel where a lady died. They thought that someone had killed her, but it really, she, she was off her medication and she jumped into the, the tanks, the water tanks on the roof, and they found her in there. So there's this documentary they did on the Cecil Hotel, and then it becomes this history of Skid Row and what Skid Row would be like. They would find people de degenerates, like homeless people, drug addicts from one place. Mm. And they would just go take 'em and drop 'em off Right in this one area where there's like a shelter and then there's food and keep 'em there. Mm. And so they developed this like fucking internal village in Los Angeles.

3 (2h 24m 19s):
Yeah. That's all drug addict, homeless people. It's insane. I'm talking thousands and thousands of people in this area,

4 (2h 24m 28s):
I know. But we should put more money in climate change and you, and, and, and help

3 (2h 24m 32s):
Out What the fucked up thing about that is they engineered that they made that area.

4 (2h 24m 37s):
That's

3 (2h 24m 37s):
How I feel. They sent people to those spot and they, they had police. You can't, that kept people from leaving that area.

4 (2h 24m 42s):
If you've been to, you've been traveling. Haven't you seen certain cities over the last couple years outta nowhere all of a sudden has a huge homeless population?

3 (2h 24m 52s):
Yeah. A lot.

4 (2h 24m 53s):
Like this is not, this is in my opinion, from traveling I mean, but I remember Denver was one of the first places where I was like, what the f Like this happened quick. Where why are they all in Denver and then Portland? I was seeing LA but not to the, I I've been outta LA a long time. So not to the extent that you have San Fran the first time. Oh my God. I think it was like 2017, 18. I was, I was traumatized. What I saw in just a short amount of time. It wasn't that crazy. I don't remember it being that crazy. 2015 compared to 2017, 18.

4 (2h 25m 35s):
It got insane. It was de I saw a guy sticking a needle and I saw homeless people. They

3 (2h 25m 41s):
Made it, they made it more convenient for them. They made, they were more tolerant of them and they gave them money to stay there. There's a lot of cities in the Pacific Northwest. I don't know if it's Portland or Seattle. One of them, they interviewed this guy and he was talking about how he gets a check. He gets a check every month. And so it's like beneficial for him to stay on the street. He doesn't have to do anything. He can get his drugs and can get his food and he just sleeps on the streets and they're paying them. They're essentially paying them is a vote to never improve their condition. I doubt it. I I mean maybe people voted on, they're out of their mind up there. But

4 (2h 26m 15s):
Like, either way

3 (2h 26m 15s):
People are in put in there. Those people are money. A death cults. They're in a suicide death cult. They want their city to spiral outta control. They want no cops. They want, but why trans kids everywhere? Why? I don't know, man. I know.

4 (2h 26m 28s):
There has to be

3 (2h 26m 29s):
Recent China TikTok, probably Russia.

4 (2h 26m 32s):
It doesn't make sense. I gotta pee. I gotta pee really bad

3 (2h 26m 35s):
Too. We'll come back. It just doesn't make make sense up. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense that people are buying into it. Right. We'll be right back. I think there's a fucking game going on, Jim. That game is total control of the human population. It's the same game that's been going on since the British Empire. Beginning

4 (2h 26m 52s):
Of time, the

3 (2h 26m 53s):
Same game that went on when Portugal went to South America. It's the same game that we've been doing forever. Yep. The same game. It's just being, it's being done on a different playing field. It's a different world. There's a different influence. There's this whole digital thing that no one's completely got control of yet. And there's a lot of AI talk and we don't exactly know what the state of the art is. It's shocking how good it is already.

4 (2h 27m 20s):
So the other day, don don't know what it, don don't know what it was, but over Florida, southwest Florida, my daughter and I were riding a bicycle. And you saw

3 (2h 27m 30s):
A UFO.

4 (2h 27m 31s):
No. Wasn't No, it wasn't a UFO, it was this Wait, it was,

3 (2h 27m 37s):
You saw that giant alien at the Miami Mall.

4 (2h 27m 39s):
No, dude, Epstein's Island. Can we send out the aliens please? Immediately?

3 (2h 27m 46s):
10 foot Anki. He was

4 (2h 27m 48s):
10 foot Anki. Where's the video? It's,

3 (2h 27m 51s):
There's clear, clear grainy video footage. There's fucking high resolution Right. Cell phone footage with those kids beating the fuck out of people at that mall. Well,

4 (2h 27m 59s):
Only that How many, how many cameras are in a, in a, in a freaking mall? There's no cameras in a mall. You don't have You, don, anyone, videotapes. They

3 (2h 28m 6s):
Don't work on aliens. The cameras don't work.

4 (2h 28m 8s):
Oh, you know what? That's, that's what it's, no. So we're looking up and it, dammit.

3 (2h 28m 12s):
I had a friend of mine try to convince me that the aliens erased the video footage that he was getting of the flying saucer That was in his backyard.

4 (2h 28m 19s):
Come on.

3 (2h 28m 20s):
No, he really believed it.

4 (2h 28m 21s):
No. So this was,

3 (2h 28m 23s):
I'm like, bro, you

4 (2h 28m 24s):
Forgot to press

3 (2h 28m 25s):
Record.

4 (2h 28m 26s):
So this

3 (2h 28m 26s):
Was Jesus Christ.

4 (2h 28m 29s):
So first,

3 (2h 28m 30s):
What is that,

4 (2h 28m 31s):
Don? Don't know. That's what I'm asking you. So,

3 (2h 28m 33s):
Okay. That looks like a launch. So that could be either a missile test or that could be a satellite launch. Where was that? Okay, you're near Cape Canaveral space. Like Tesla

9 (2h 28m 42s):
Thing. Tesla.

3 (2h 28m 44s):
SpaceX. SpaceX.

4 (2h 28m 45s):
Yeah. But here's, so here's what, what was wild?

3 (2h 28m 47s):
You're near Cape Canaveral, right? Yeah, yeah, that's what that is.

4 (2h 28m 50s):
Okay. So

3 (2h 28m 52s):
Did you Google Rockets being launched that day?

4 (2h 28m 54s):
But look at, but what was,

3 (2h 28m 55s):
Or did you go straight to Reddit?

4 (2h 28m 57s):
No, no. I knew I was like, I'm not gonna go on either one of these. So I just watched it. My and I just watched it to be honest with you, because it formed a cloud and it looked like there was this weird cloud formation in the middle of the sky. And then all of a sudden there were two or three of them that started jetting out from each side. I was like, oh, wow. But what blows my mind is when you look at it as you say, it's a rocket, it's moving. You see, it almost looks like I, whatever. It's cutting through you. You see it. Do you know what I mean? Well, if you're through water, you're like,

3 (2h 29m 35s):
And you see the water and

4 (2h 29m 36s):
It, right. Do you know if you're going through air,

3 (2h 29m 39s):
It's okay. But do you know why?

4 (2h 29m 41s):
No. It's

3 (2h 29m 42s):
Heat. It's heat and condensation. It's the same reason why you see contraras after jet engines. Okay. So with jet engines, when they go through the sky and you say, oh my God, they're making fake clouds. Yeah, yeah, yeah. They are making clouds. Yes. This is how they make clouds. Yes. It's an accidental thing of having a very hot jet engine that's going through an area with a very specific amount of moisture in the air. So when they, when they travel through with a certain amount of humidity, a certain amount of moisture, with the heat of the jet engine, it literally creates clouds. Mm. And the thing is, like when people say, oh, they're geoengineering involuntarily for sure. Like maybe they've done some stuff. They've definitely cloud seeded. And there definitely have been some experiments about lowering the temperature of the earth by seeding things in the clouds.

3 (2h 30m 24s):
There's definitely been experiments and definitely been studies and discussions about that. But one of the things that, that happens when you have all the jets flying back and forth like we do, is you are 100% creating cloud cover that cools the earth. They found that out during nine 11. 'cause after nine 11, when they shut down all the airports, they shut down all the flights and there was no planes in the sky. The temperature got warmer. And it's because they're literally covering us with clouds. Every time they go over in these jets, that's what's happening. Hmm. So when you're looking at that, that's a similar version of that. Hmm. You're looking at this insanely powerful rocket that's shooting this satellite up into the sky. There's a

9 (2h 31m 4s):
Meteorologist explanation of that.

3 (2h 31m 6s):
Ice crystals come outta the spacecraft exhaust Wow. Are beautiful. And they glow whenever the sunlight hits them if we're in darkness, but the sunlight is going right past the limb of the earth. Then when those ice crystals are up there, they turn into this fantastic show. Amazing.

4 (2h 31m 21s):
Hmm.

3 (2h 31m 22s):
So it's this cold is fuck up there. Dude, you gotta realize, you ever look in a plane when it tells you the outside temperature? Yeah.

4 (2h 31m 29s):
It's like minus 33.

3 (2h 31m 30s):
Yeah. What the

4 (2h 31m 31s):
Fuck, dude? Minus six. It is freezing up there.

3 (2h 31m 33s):
So when you're passing through that with a hot jet engine, you're basically making the equivalent of like, if you go outside in the winter and go,

4 (2h 31m 40s):
Right,

3 (2h 31m 40s):
Right. But you're doing it in a way more extreme version. You're literally turning it into a cloud.

4 (2h 31m 46s):
So who is that now? That's SpaceX.

3 (2h 31m 49s):
I think that's SpaceX. Which Jamie saw what? See that? Yeah. I did see that. A fucking door blew off in Alaska Airline. Did you see the other one with the plane crashed?

4 (2h 31m 57s):
What

3 (2h 31m 57s):
Bro, this united one is. I

9 (2h 31m 59s):
Don't even think this was the door. They said it's just a pa It was next to the door.

3 (2h 32m 3s):
Oh my God. It's just a chunk of the fucking, oh my God. The person to the didn't,

9 (2h 32m 6s):
And it was, maybe it was the door, maybe it,

4 (2h 32m 8s):
And no one flew out.

3 (2h 32m 9s):
Holy shit, dude.

9 (2h 32m 10s):
It happened 20 minutes after they left, and they're still like, they showed them flying, just found a phone.

4 (2h 32m 14s):
Can you imagine sitting right there?

9 (2h 32m 16s):
Someone's iPhone made the fell out while they were up there. Oh

3 (2h 32m 19s):
My God. And they found it.

4 (2h 32m 20s):
Can you imagine sitting right there still working?

3 (2h 32m 22s):
It still worked.

9 (2h 32m 23s):
Yeah. No. Yeah. The two people that were sitting there missed the flight. They said,

4 (2h 32m 27s):
Are you serious? Yeah.

3 (2h 32m 29s):
Oh my God.

4 (2h 32m 30s):
That's Bazar. What? What are the chances of that? The one door that's gonna come off at, at billions of flights? That's the two people that were supposed to sit there. See,

9 (2h 32m 43s):
They're still

3 (2h 32m 44s):
To

9 (2h 32m 45s):
The flight. Baby Jesus coming down while the door's open. The

3 (2h 32m 47s):
Baby Jesus looking out for him. That is so crazy. Dude.

9 (2h 32m 51s):
The flight attendants' making sure he is like, are you sure There's

3 (2h 32m 52s):
No one there? It's not even a door. It doesn't look like a door. It looks like a hole.

4 (2h 32m 55s):
Who do you, what do you got going on here? That's

9 (2h 32m 57s):
Just YouTube. I know.

4 (2h 32m 58s):
Okay.

9 (2h 32m 59s):
There's a lot of YouTube videos that get looked up on this show.

3 (2h 33m 1s):
Dude

9 (2h 33m 2s):
Can't look at this algorithm.

4 (2h 33m 3s):
Holy crow.

3 (2h 33m 4s):
Yeah. So did you see the other one where it United Airline? No, crashed. Landed. It landed. but it landed so hard that it bent the fuselage. No. Yeah.

4 (2h 33m 15s):
They have video of it.

3 (2h 33m 16s):
They don't have video, but they have photographs of the fuselage that's bent. So whoever was flying this thing. Yeah,

4 (2h 33m 23s):
There's

3 (2h 33m 23s):
Someone, someone tweeted about it. Like a, it was like a new pilot. This

9 (2h 33m 25s):
Was August maybe. Is

3 (2h 33m 27s):
Look at that. Bro. It crashed so hard. It it got a dent in the middle of it.

9 (2h 33m 32s):
Well, then the, in Japan, those two planes ran into each

3 (2h 33m 35s):
Other. It said it. Yeah. It said it impacted the scroll down. Impacted the runway three times resulting in bent, bent fuselage. It's fucking, what the fuck? And so what happened in Japan? Are they going through a similar thing? Were they just hiring anybody? No,

9 (2h 33m 49s):
I think,

4 (2h 33m 51s):
Oh wait, United was the one that was like, we have to hire X amount of this, Y amount of that. and I think, I think Schneider. I saw No,

9 (2h 33m 59s):
It was on the runway. They ran into each other. Oh,

3 (2h 34m 2s):
Jesus Christ.

9 (2h 34m 3s):
A huge explosion. Oh

3 (2h 34m 4s):
My God, that's so crazy.

9 (2h 34m 5s):
389 people got off.

4 (2h 34m 8s):
No one died. Oh my

3 (2h 34m 9s):
God. No one died.

9 (2h 34m 10s):
No people died on the bus. Couple people died while playing. They hit it, I believe.

4 (2h 34m 13s):
Dude, what a horror show. You make the whole flight. And then that's how you

3 (2h 34m 16s):
Oh my God, dude,

4 (2h 34m 17s):
You already landed. You're done.

3 (2h 34m 18s):
There's a fucking great book called The Strain, and it's about, it's, I think Guillermo del Toro wrote it. Yeah, he did. And then they turned it into a series for, am I saying it right? Was it the Strain? They turned it into a series, but about, it's about this plane that lands and everybody in the plane's dead. They all, their blood sucked out of 'em. It's like, it's a vampire book.

4 (2h 34m 39s):
Oh, it's a vampire.

9 (2h 34m 40s):
I haven't seen this yet. Have you heard of the new Netflix movie? It's a real page chart inside of the snow. It's about a plane crash. I I heard that. It's a very

4 (2h 34m 47s):
Violent and it been done. They started eating each other and that something

9 (2h 34m 49s):
Like that. Yeah.

3 (2h 34m 49s):
It's, it's about people that ate each other from Lord of the Flies to lost to Yellow jackets. Fictional stories about plane crashes leaving people stranded in the wilderness have long been the fodder of popular entertainment. These narratives generally delve into the dark side of human nature, often centering on how survivors eventually turn against one another under the stress of such dire circumstances. Yeah. That's like during Covid, right? It's time for thousand. I

9 (2h 35m 12s):
Think this is like a, not a remake, a retelling of the rugby

4 (2h 35m 15s):
Crash. Oh, they made a movie outta it. True

3 (2h 35m 16s):
Story. About 16 members and supporters of a Uruguayan rugby team managed to Survive 72 days in one of the world's harshest environments by doing the opposite. While the movie is plenty harrowing, it's also a moving account of how those who lived through the now infamous 1972 crash of the Uruguayan Air Force Flight 5 71 banded together to overcome nearly two and a half months of starvation, frigid temperatures and extreme weather events while trapped under a remote glacier high in the Antis Mountains. Here's, here's what the factor is there. Uruguayan Air Force. So you're dealing with high level individuals, right? You're dealing with people that are in the fucking Air Force.

4 (2h 35m 54s):
Right? So they've, they've

3 (2h 35m 55s):
Trained these, these aren't just like regular fat civilians Right. That lie about their taxes. Right. These are soldiers. Right. And so they banded together and they survived. Right. And that's the good story. Well, what's the fucking factor in that story? Real humans, hard men. Real humans that have gone through something very difficult to become a member of the Air Force. Yeah. And they, they know how to band together. They've been well trained. They have discipline. Yeah. That's what the fucking world needs, bro. That's what the world needs. Like talk all this is toxic masculinity talk. Oh my God. That is China. They're doing that to you. I don't think that's what the Air Force is. They're doing it to you. What

9 (2h 36m 34s):
Do you mean? I don't think I meant that they were in the Air Force.

4 (2h 36m 35s):
No, but you're right.

3 (2h 36m 36s):
They, they had no connection to the Air Force.

9 (2h 36m 38s):
Yeah. I think it was just what they called the planes.

3 (2h 36m 41s):
So who are the people?

9 (2h 36m 42s):
The people in the rugby team?

3 (2h 36m 43s):
Oh, well, there you again. Okay. Athletes. The rugby team. That's right. They were the rugby team. Yeah. So that is another version. Yeah. Rugby team. The rugby players are fucking animals. How tough are those Goddamn guys? Tough. I never, how tough are those motherfuckers? They're crashed into each other with no helmets on.

4 (2h 36m 59s):
I have a guy in my development wants to play, and I'm like, I can't bar. I'm not doing it. Those

3 (2h 37m 3s):
Guys are animals.

4 (2h 37m 4s):
No, they're animals. I can't do that.

3 (2h 37m 5s):
You ever see when they do the haka, what's

4 (2h 37m 7s):
Yes. Is that, wait, no. Is that like the warrior?

3 (2h 37m 10s):
The Yeah. Before they do. Holy shit, bro. It's spooky. It's amazing. Now,

4 (2h 37m 14s):
Can you imagine it's like a thousand people invading your town doing that. Like you'd be, they people had already laid down. don don't wanna fight these guys. I, well, well

3 (2h 37m 21s):
Actually just looking like those Braveheart type wars. Yeah. Were we looking at people over the other side? I'm out. Show me some of that. Jamie. Show me some of that. This rugby team

4 (2h 37m 30s):
Now matching. These guys showed up. These

3 (2h 37m 31s):
Guys are animals. We're gonna fight. They got all taped up ears and shit. They're ready to go to war.

4 (2h 37m 36s):
They're ready to go to War league. This

3 (2h 37m 37s):
Is a totally different kind of game. Yeah. There's no, they don't, they ain't got no pads on man. There's no pads.

4 (2h 37m 42s):
No pads.

3 (2h 37m 45s):
And these guys fucking collide with each other. Watch this. Tell me you're not getting fired up.

4 (2h 38m 8s):
Imagine this guy did this in the bar as you're coming out. He's, he's, he said the wrong thing.

3 (2h 38m 13s):
Not good.

4 (2h 38m 14s):
Not good.

3 (2h 38m 19s):
Listen to that fucking crowd, dude.

18 (2h 38m 27s):
Is that, that's not aggressive, is it? Walking up to the line like that?

4 (2h 38m 32s):
And that guy is crazy.

3 (2h 38m 45s):
There was one dude in the back. He was like, oh my God, what the fuck am I getting

4 (2h 38m 48s):
Into? Where the guy, the main guy, looks like he's going, he's gonna buy something. Zero,

3 (2h 38m 58s):
Bro.

4 (2h 38m 59s):
The guy in the far left looks

3 (2h 39m 0s):
Crazy. And we're over here arguing about what gender can use what bathroom.

4 (2h 39m 7s):
Crazy. Right.

3 (2h 39m 9s):
They want us to fight over stupid shit. I remember when they first, they out, they want us to become feminized. They want us to become weaker. They want us to become stupider. They want us to become more docile, more dependent. That's just how people are kids. It's

4 (2h 39m 22s):
Dehumanizing. That's you're dehumanizing. Take out the spirit and what you are, what your existence is. It is,

3 (2h 39m 28s):
But it, your

4 (2h 39m 29s):
True existence, your natural role.

3 (2h 39m 31s):
I think that's how things move. I think that's how things progress. You have to have a resistance Right. To something. Something's infringing. And then you have to have a resistance and then things improve. 'cause you realize that the, the power and the importance of this moment, and you, you have to overcome this as a society. Like we have to overcome this, but we have to be forced into this conflict to be able to rise, to overcome it. and I think that's what's happened all throughout history with wars. Mm. All throughout. And this is a kind of a war. It's kind of a culture war.

4 (2h 40m 2s):
Psychological.

3 (2h 40m 3s):
Yeah. and it's, the culture war is attached to physical wars, and it can manipulate those physical wars. It's wild times. Kids. It really is. This is the wildest times. And we just gotta hope that cooler heads prevail. And no one decides to get nuclear. No one decides to get Oppenheimer up in this bitch.

4 (2h 40m 24s):
That's what don don't understand too, is like I mean. I, I remember last time I was here, like people just everyday people. How hard is it? What, why do we allow, if they say, Hey man, Russia is a problem. Ukraine, all right, Israel, or whatever, whatever conflict there is, how come you never just talk to the people? Why do you have to talk to the ones? But why can't you? Who is allowing this? Why do we allow this? Yeah. Why do we allow your entire existence to be controlled by someone that can force one of your children or yourself into a situation they have nothing to do with.

4 (2h 41m 6s):
Sure. And we're talking about murdering them or them or teaching them to murder.

3 (2h 41m 10s):
Well, that's definitely the argument against the draft, right? The the draft is you're taking people against their will and you're forcing them to fight for their country against a war that may ultimately prove to be unjustified. Like think about the people that got drafted for the Vietnam War. Why

4 (2h 41m 26s):
Exactly. Now, that's, that's

3 (2h 41m 28s):
The, that's the best, the best example that we have because it's, it's universally regarded as being started by a false flag. And you know, and probably it was a part of a fucking crazy drug money operation at at least part of it

4 (2h 41m 40s):
That was a genocide. And we did. And, and that, that, that's another thing. When you sit and you really think about it. That's really scary when you say that was here we to send people in a situation. Yeah. That, you know, there was times where they knew it wasn't gonna work out, but you keep selling 'em and then they drugged everyone here I mean. Yeah. You could see, you could see all the, the implanted chaos and what they were doing. And all right, if you're not, if you're not

19 (2h 42m 9s):
Educated, well then you're gonna have to go fight.

4 (2h 42m 12s):
And if you don't have money, well,

19 (2h 42m 15s):
You're gonna have to go fight.

4 (2h 42m 16s):
And okay, if you're gonna stay here, let's start the campuses. Let's start

19 (2h 42m 19s):
Dropping all these drugs and

4 (2h 42m 21s):
Let's put, let's put out this genre of music. Let's make sure this music starts really kicking

3 (2h 42m 25s):
In. That's the weird conspiracy theory that Hollywood or the CIA, the CIA created a lot of rock and roll. That's a weird one. That's why is it that

4 (2h 42m 37s):
Weird? That's

3 (2h 42m 37s):
The Lord. But it's just weird. Not saying that it's not true.

4 (2h 42m 41s):
Get him on every level entertainment and everything. It's just like the, just like to a degree sports or something like that.

3 (2h 42m 47s):
Right, right, right, right. But it's not possible to create something like the doors without insane talent and dedication. You have to have a bunch of things have to be happening. So how much influence did they really have? I mean, if they can, how much influence do they really have? Or they can create light My fire

4 (2h 43m 6s):
Who creates the airwaves?

3 (2h 43m 8s):
No, no, no, no, no, no. No. I mean the, the actual recording itself is brilliant. Yes, I agree. You know, break on Through to The Other Side is a fucking brilliant song. It's a brilliant song. It's one of those songs where it brings you back to the year in which it was made. You feel it in the song. It's like a time capsule that song's magic. So if the Ccia a really did create rock and roll, the CIA really was involved in the hippie movement. Like how, how much were they involved in the magic That was the Doors? And can you, can you do that again please? Were you guys really involved in Hendricks? I, because that's the thing they always said, like Hendricks Hendricks was like a product of the Ccia A I'd heard that.

3 (2h 43m 50s):
Like how, how did you make the greatest guitarist of all time? Do it again please. What

4 (2h 43m 56s):
Did you do? And for what,

3 (2h 43m 58s):
You know, the latest one,

4 (2h 43m 59s):
Like, no, but I'm starting to hear

3 (2h 44m 0s):
All this. The latest one is rap music. The latest one is the CIA created gangster rap to, to cause chaos in the

4 (2h 44m 9s):
Communities. I can, I'll tap that. Entertain thought. Because if you think about it, I was a metal guy and what kinda music you were into. So I was very like, Hey, listen, this crap,

3 (2h 44m 20s):
Black

4 (2h 44m 20s):
People singing, trying to steal, like that's the mentality, okay. Of where I grew up and the music and da da da. And so, but then all the chicks started listening to hipaa I mean it break my heart. You see like, dudes break dance. I'm like, ah, dude, you're going to the other side. So it was, it was kind of, it was breaking out and it was becoming, it was crossing over. and it was also, I wouldn't say harmless, but it's more upbeat. And so if you're infl, any music that influences both sides always has to eventually get, get, get steered in a certain direction or another direction.

4 (2h 44m 60s):
That's just my own thought. And if you look at all like tremendous people that would start crossing over, like, oh

20 (2h 45m 7s):
Yeah, stop this. He's singing about

4 (2h 45m 8s):
Whether, I even thought that sometimes about some of the deeper metal bands. Like, oh,

20 (2h 45m 13s):
These guys were talking. Like, this guys running around acting all violence, smash each other, talking about creep

4 (2h 45m 20s):
Of death and got some mission. Charlie telling you a pretty round

3 (2h 45m 24s):
Up. So you're saying that someone's like controlling who makes it through and who doesn't?

4 (2h 45m 27s):
A hundred percent I Why wouldn't it? Why would you allow certain individuals or certain music to get out there and then if it gets out there, anything that can control? Well,

3 (2h 45m 41s):
First

4 (2h 45m 41s):
Of all that much has to be monitored.

3 (2h 45m 44s):
Well, First of all, when someone's making music right in the beginning, you're not making any money. So you gotta get really good to the point where you're an artist who makes amazing music for you to be popular at all. You can't fake it. You fake people faked it a little bit with like some pop songs. There's some, they put together some bullshit for sure. But if you, you're talking about like classic rock, that shit was not fake. They figured out so good. They tapped into some kind of creativity. and I don't think people anticipated that. I don't think that existed before. I think the difference between 1950s rock and 1960s Rock is the Grand Canyon. It's crazy how different it is.

3 (2h 46m 24s):
You go from fucking Buddy Holly to Led Zeppelin. What, you know, you go from been a long time since we rock and roll. Like you listen to that kind of music, like holy shit. And then you go just to the 1950s and you know, you have good music, you have fun songs, but they're kind of simplistic, man. There's, there's something about the drug culture and the drug culture influence on music. The psychedelic culture influence on music in the 1960s is substantial. Whether it's what happened with the Beatles, what happened with for sure, what happened with many, many, many, many bands. Many bands. Jimi Hendrix. Absolutely.

3 (2h 47m 5s):
The Doors. Absolutely. There's so many classical bands that were experimenting with LSD, you know, they were hanging out with Ken Keesey and they were, you know, there's, there's been a lot of those bands that were doing, like, they were doing wild shit, man. So do

4 (2h 47m 20s):
You think, 'cause sometimes I'll think, well, they were whacked or they had to have been taken up because they were freeing too many minds. Or Amos

3 (2h 47m 29s):
No, I think they live in a lifestyle for the most part. I mean the Kurt Cobain one is kind of crazy. What's that? But you know, he committed suicide and then there's a whole conspiracy that he was actually murdered. There was a documentary that was like a docudrama where they had someone like playing the cop and you know, the whole deal. And it's sort of trying to paint this story that he was assassinated, but at the very least, the guy was doing heroin all the time and was probably suicidal. And a lot of the deaths you're talking about guys like Jim Morrison, he like fucking choked to death on his own vomit, man. Same with Hendricks. The Hendricks one is kind of crazy because one of Hendricks's old bodyguards apparently had, he was saying that Hendricks was killed by his manager, that he was about to leave his manager.

3 (2h 48m 15s):
So Hendricks manager killed him and he controlled the rights to all of his music.

4 (2h 48m 19s):
Now is that, that farfetched at the end of day, it's not

3 (2h 48m 22s):
That farfetched because the mob was running music back then. Just like the mob was running Vegas. The mob was running New York City. It wasn't like, it wasn't like you, you're dealing with people at CAA. You know, you're dealing with some in incredibly unethical, dangerous people that live in the world of live entertainment. Right. Wild drug using people. Right? Like that guy Phil Specter that killed that lady, he put a gun in that lady's house mouth rather, and shot her in the head and he picked her up. She was like a waitress in Hollywood. He brought her back to his mansion and shot her in the mouth. And apparently he pulled guns on people all the time. Just point his gun at people. This is the guy that produced, he's the wall of sound guy. He's the guy that produced so much incredible music.

4 (2h 49m 4s):
Well, there's a lot of great producers that, that supposedly have these dark, dark, it's like, it's like an organized type crime. Awesome. Whatever that falls into. They're

3 (2h 49m 16s):
Probably doing pounds of blow, dude. They're probably doing pounds of blow

4 (2h 49m 20s):
As long as this table.

3 (2h 49m 21s):
There's no way a guy puts guns in people's mouths not doing

4 (2h 49m 25s):
Below. That's a's a lot. That's crazy. Yeah.

3 (2h 49m 27s):
No, you're rights. 100% not smoking weed. That guy's doing blow.

4 (2h 49m 31s):
That guy's definitely on something outside of me.

3 (2h 49m 34s):
He's out of his fucking mind.

4 (2h 49m 36s):
Yeah, that's far up,

3 (2h 49m 37s):
Bro. He's out of his mind on blow. Yeah. And he would wear wacky wigs. He was bald, but he would wear these crazy wigs like crazy, like Afro wigs. You ever seen these wigs? No. He changes his wigs all the time. He's in court.

4 (2h 49m 49s):
What's the guy? Who's the guy?

3 (2h 49m 51s):
Phil Specter. Yes. See if you can find out the Phil Specter's different wigs that he wore. Look at it. So this is during his trial. Yeah.

4 (2h 49m 60s):
Look

3 (2h 50m 0s):
At his, imagine you want people to think you're not guilty and you literally dress like a Willy Wonka character.

4 (2h 50m 6s):
Look at the big pictures of

3 (2h 50m 7s):
This guy. More different wigs. So how many different wigs did he wear during the trial? He

4 (2h 50m 12s):
Got a crazy power trip. Lost his mind.

3 (2h 50m 16s):
Yeah, he was a evil man.

4 (2h 50m 17s):
Lost his mind. Yeah,

3 (2h 50m 18s):
He lost his mind. But he probably, it was,

4 (2h 50m 20s):
I shouldn't say lost his mind, it was lost before he entered this realm.

3 (2h 50m 23s):
But you also have to realize, this guy was a music producer again back in the 1960s. Man.

4 (2h 50m 29s):
Okay.

3 (2h 50m 29s):
Like who was he dealing with? What kind of organized crime figures were involved in music back then? How gangster was that business? How much did they have control over those artists back then? A lot. Man.

4 (2h 50m 40s):
A lot. Again, again, I, and so I'm saying I don't know anything about CIA or anything like that, but I'm open to all conversations because at the end of the day, there's a billion people that are incredibly artistic and all that. How many fall by the wayside? How and who is to be allowed put out there? And you say, well, you know, they, they write that good music, but you don't know. Yeah, I do believe some of them write that music. But you know, they also said, said so and so to help influence

3 (2h 51m 9s):
It. You know, man,

4 (2h 51m 10s):
You know

3 (2h 51m 11s):
What I mean? but it is weird. You don't know. Some people make it and some people don't. And we found a song a while back. Brian Simpson sent it to me. It's, I'm Alive by this dude, Johnny Thunder. Mm. And he made this song, I never heard of Johnny Thunder. No I don never. He sent me this song. Get that song Jamie. He sent me this song and the song was from 1969. And you hear this song and you're like, oh my God, this guy's a star. This guy's a star. You hear this song and you think there's no way this guy doesn't make it. Listen to this shit.

0 (2h 51m 52s):
I

3 (2h 51m 56s):
Don't. You see mini skirts and hot Kneehigh boots. People are dancing people with flowers in their hair. Dudes with fucked up mustaches.

4 (2h 52m 8s):
I want more. I want more rocking.

3 (2h 52m 11s):
Oh, this gets better too. You gotta let this one get in you.

0 (2h 52m 20s):
I,

4 (2h 52m 57s):
He's putting everything in that.

3 (2h 53m 2s):
Come on, son.

4 (2h 53m 4s):
You notice who reminds Doesn't watching. Yep. You ever see that guy who listens to music for the first time that he's never heard? He's like a I know if he's Jamaican or whatever.

3 (2h 53m 17s):
Oh,

4 (2h 53m 18s):
He sees like his, his facial expressions.

3 (2h 53m 20s):
Oh yeah. There's a bunch of those. Yeah. Yeah. Online on YouTube. Yeah.

4 (2h 53m 23s):
I love watching that stuff.

3 (2h 53m 24s):
Yeah. So this guy, man, never. So, wait a minute. What happened to him? Man, he's gone.

4 (2h 53m 28s):
How many albums did he make?

3 (2h 53m 30s):
Don Don't know. The thing is that the other music wasn't as good. That music was magic I know. It's just like, I feel like if he was working with the right people, that guy's a bad motherfucker. That song's so good. I've listening to that song a thousand times. Every time I listen to it, it just brings me back to 1969. I just imagine that dude on stage singing that song and I see all those people dancing. Like, that song was fire. It was fire. He just nailed it. And he's just, I don't think he ever did it again. I mean I never heard another song that connected with me that he did out. I might be wrong. I haven't heard all of them. Maybe he did another one like that.

4 (2h 54m 8s):
Well, and I remember we were really into Johnny Cash growing up. and I remember when I really, after I saw the movie, then I realized he had a TV series and then it was Johnny Cash had

3 (2h 54m 19s):
A TV

4 (2h 54m 19s):
Series. Yes. What was it? It was called The Johnny Cash Show and it was on tv.

3 (2h 54m 25s):
Oh, I remember

4 (2h 54m 26s):
This now. And bro,

3 (2h 54m 28s):
Can we see what that looked like? Yeah. The Johnny Cash Show

4 (2h 54m 33s):
And like the whole story behind Back The Man in Black. And he would, and one show, hold on a second. See, but what the first thing I recognized was, yeah, yeah. and I can't remember if it was live or

3 (2h 54m 56s):
Was this in Nashville? Bill

4 (2h 54m 58s):
Walker I know, to be honest with you.

3 (2h 54m 60s):
Wow. Look at this.

4 (2h 55m 10s):
But he'd also,

3 (2h 55m 11s):
What a bad mother. He would talk motherfucker. He was

4 (2h 55m 14s):
Now dude, when he would talk to the crowd, he would get, he'd get into some deep stuff and interact with the crowd and then the music, whoever he had on musically. Which what I noticed was it wasn't about their outfits, it wasn't Well, she went so much like the chicks that sang. No one's crawling on a floor and tweaking. You just, it's the song. Yeah. It's the, it's the, it's the beauty of the song. It's the spirit of the song. Like, look, this chicken, is that, is that his wife?

3 (2h 55m 50s):
Who is that? This is the pilot for the show. That's what it says. 1965,

4 (2h 55m 54s):
Bro. And then, then he, this is crazy too. He wanted to do, he just wanted to sing Gospel his whole life. and I wouldn't. They were like, yeah, nah, you're not doing it. And that's what I picked up from the movie. There was a scene where he goes to the, like the, the, the producers or the record company. Like, yeah, no, we're not Come back. Went and he came back with something. They're like, all right, we'll play that. That will get on. But on here, he, he went full-blown gospel. One show. And he went live and they threatened to pull him and all that. That guy was, that guy was a badass. He was a pioneer. But the music, it was more about the music compared to whatever's going on today.

4 (2h 56m 36s):
Well, there's

3 (2h 56m 36s):
People out here that just doing the music too. There's, there's people out there. And then they're very popular too, because they're just doing music and people are like flocking to that. You know, there's a lot of that now. Like, guys like Zach Bryan. People like flock to that dude. 'cause it's just music. It's just music. There's no antics. It's just him writing amazing songs. Right. And singing them beautifully. Right. And there's a, a bunch of those people out there right now, and they're thriving 'cause people are connecting to it. Do you ever hear of the Highway Man? No. With You never heard that song. Which With

4 (2h 57m 5s):
What? With, oh

3 (2h 57m 6s):
Wait, who? One of my favorite Johnny Cash songs. Oh, it's Johnny Cash with Waylon Jennings. Waylon

4 (2h 57m 10s):
Jennings

3 (2h 57m 10s):
Was great. Yeah. Willie Nelson and Kenny Rogerson.

4 (2h 57m 16s):
I've heard this song. The Highway

3 (2h 57m 17s):
Man Heard song. It's fucking beautiful. Yes, I've heard this song. But the Johnny Cash line, he goes, I fly a Starship across the Universe divide. And when I reach the other side, I mean it's fucking amazing. It's an amazing song. They, they just, they tapped into something, man. They did. But what I'm, what my point is about the CIA creating the 1960s music. Yeah. Listen, they might have helped those people and influenced those people and wanted to generate people to reach the pinnacle of success. So it ruined society. That's totally possible that they got behind that. But also they didn't create, Hendrix Hendricks created Hendrix. They might have allowed him to do that.

3 (2h 57m 57s):
And almost pushed him. 'cause they wanted the moral decay of society so they could go in and close loopholes and, and put rules in place. One of the things they did in 1970, there's a sweeping psychedelics act of 1970. And they did that in response to the sixties movement. and it made all psychedelic drugs illegal. They all became schedule one. So if you wanted to stop a society from waking up, that's what you do. You go in and you promote the most insane behavior like the Manson family. Like, like was really detailed In the Chaos book by Tom O'Neill, you promote the most egregious offensive versions of the hippie culture. You get 'em hooked on acid, you make 'em commit violent crimes.

3 (2h 58m 39s):
And you're doing this also that you could eventually pass laws to limit all psychedelic use and all control over populations. Stop all this hippie bullshit. Locked those people up. They did it with the Civil rights movement. They did it with the Black Panthers. They did it with the hippies. They infiltrated, they got, they changed the drug laws. They used it as an excuse to come in and arrest people. And they even had people pretending to be hippies that were deeply embedded in the movement, just like they did with the Proud Boys Of course. Just like they did with those guys who was kidnapping. Governor Whitmer. That's what they do, right? They infiltrate, get people to do things, and it's all about control. And through that, they've put the enlightenment of the human race on pause because they limited the use of these things that people have used forever to attain a level of enlightenment that they feel is unavailable to them without these experiences.

3 (2h 59m 33s):
And we've denied them those experiences because we say we know better. We've denied them those experiences because these are drugs and they're against the law. And we've wrote it down in 1970, and by golly, we're sticking to it. Right. And that's just control, that's all that is. That doesn't make any sense. There's no logic behind any of that shit. That's nonsense. And the people that are making those laws, they've never even had those experiences. So they don't even know what the fuck they're talking about.

4 (2h 59m 59s):
Yeah, you're a hundred percent on it. Because I, I, my daughter turned me onto a documentary where the guy was, it was like an LSD guy and something where alcoholics, basically people would see or have a spiritual awakening.

3 (3h 0m 19s):
Yeah. People with addiction problems have cured, like cigarette smokers that are addicted to cigarettes, people that are addicted to heroin. A lot of different people that have been addicted to things that Psilocybin has done that too. But Ibogaine is the big one. Ibogaine is the one where people get hooked on opiates and they get on Ibogaine and it fucking knocks it right out of them.

4 (3h 0m 39s):
There was, there was a guy I ran into about a month ago, and he is down in, he's down in Naples, Florida. He was he veteran I guess. And he said, Hey, I help veterans. don don't know much about it, but he mentioned, I said, what'd you say? He's like, something psychedelic. He goes, yeah, we do psychedelic treatment and we're curing a lot of veterans and I, I can't vouch for that.

3 (3h 1m 1s):
No, they're definitely

4 (3h 1m 2s):
Doing that. but it fascinated me. And he said, yeah, they find, they'll find God or they'll, or they'll face their worst, the PTSD or whatever. and I don't know this for a fact. I have no clue. and I don't wanna say no, I

3 (3h 1m 13s):
Know it for a fact, I can tell

4 (3h 1m 14s):
You. But this dude told me, and I'm like, it's

3 (3h 1m 15s):
Maps. Maps. The multidisciplinary association for psychedelic science or psychedelic medicine or whatever, whatever the S is.

4 (3h 1m 21s):
But I was fascinated I mean he was dead serious.

3 (3h 1m 25s):
No, they do it. They do it. Yeah. With a lot of different soldiers, specifically with MDMA, they, they use it. They use it on soldiers. And they've, they've done a bunch of different studies and shown that it has a profound effect on them. So

4 (3h 1m 37s):
What is, what is the, so what is it? Is it bringing them to a euphoria or does it bring 'em to a wow, there's so much more to meaning of life. Does it bring 'em, where does it push them? Well,

3 (3h 1m 48s):
I think it, it depends entirely on their intention going into something like that. But you're going into this to try to alleviate PTSD. Right. And, and try to become at peace with your existence. And for a lot of them, that's really hard to, to tell someone to go to war and kill people and then come back and just chill and be normal. That's really hard. And no one understands that other than them. Everybody else just takes it for granted. Correct. They don't understand. And the fact that they don't do anything to help these people in that way. If there's a thing that you could do, whether it was ayahuasca, whether it's ibogaine, whether it's anything, there's a thing you can do that can help those folks. And you know it's available and you won't do it for some wacky reason because some corrupt politicians wrote it down in 1970.

3 (3h 2m 31s):
That's insane. We know too much now. We know too much for it to be wasting any time. There's people that are committing suicide every day. There's veterans that are taking their own lives that could be helped. That's a fact. That's real. That's happening right now. And the people that are keeping that experience from those people have no understanding of it. They have never experienced it themselves. If they did, they would never keep it from people.

4 (3h 2m 53s):
To me, that's the crime.

3 (3h 2m 54s):
They would never keep it from people. If you, if you've had a breakthrough psychedelic experience and you know what it can do to you and how it can change the way you view the world, you would not wanna stop that from happening to someone else. The only time I would ever wanna stop that from happening to someone else, if someone has a psychological condition that makes them fragile, maybe they're schizophrenic. Maybe they've got something else going on. Maybe they're on medication, they can't do any psychedelic. There's people like that that are real. You gotta know. But the only way you know is if that stuff's legal. And if they do studies and if they really understand how to the correct dosage, and you get it done at places where they're legitimate professionals and counselors and people know what to do, that's possible, man. And that, that, that could literally help elevate us outta this fucking crazy mess we're in right now.

3 (3h 3m 38s):
Yes.

4 (3h 3m 39s):
It'd

3 (3h 3m 39s):
Be the best way for people to wake up and realize these insane, destructive patterns that we're all in. It's nuts that that's still going on.

4 (3h 3m 48s):
It is nuts that it's still going on, but it, but it'd be the first to send them without even thinking about something like that. I think it's

3 (3h 3m 53s):
A, this has

4 (3h 3m 54s):
To stop.

3 (3h 3m 54s):
There's a race of connectivity and control. Yes. They're both happening at the same time. Yes. Yes. Where the human race is getting more connected with each other than ever before. Yes. There's a new Samsung Galaxy phone that's coming out. It's the Galaxy S 24 Ultra. Is that what it is? They're

23 (3h 4m 10s):
On that, yeah.

3 (3h 4m 12s):
S 24 Ultra. So what this phone can do that no other phone has ever been able to do, is it translates things in real time. What do you mean? So you'll be able to talk to someone who's speaking Spanish and you'll have your phone out. Oh. And you'll have earbuds in, and it'll translate in real time what that person's saying. And then it will do the same from you to them. Wow, that's so sick. Pretty sick in real time. You and I, if you spoke English and I spoke Spanish, we would have a conversation in real time and you'd be able to explain to me what you're talking about and I would understand it immediately. That's amazing. That's amazing. So this is a part of Samsung's new AI that they're unveiling.

3 (3h 4m 53s):
So like Samsung has to compete with Apple, right? Because Apple is the number one phone for like, most of the people that I know. And you get caught up in the Apple ecosystem, which is like iMessage and I photo and all your shit goes together and your notes all get synced up. But the problem with that is then you have one company that you rely on for everything. The positive thing is they control the hardware, they control the software, they control everything. Hmm. The negative side is that you don't, you don't have any choices. You just can only buy iPhones. But when you're out in the Android side, there's like a hundred different manufacturers and they're all competing to make the best shit. And so there's like this constant pressure to get something that's so sexy that it makes people abandon the, the Apple ecosystem.

3 (3h 5m 39s):
And so they're all, so it's a mad race for power. And the Samsung Galaxy S 24 is the new one. Details emerge on Johnny Ive and open AI's plan to build the iPhone of artificial intelligence. Oh, they're gonna kill us all. There's

23 (3h 5m 53s):
Been over like 20 Apple engineers or developers,

3 (3h 5m 56s):
Whatever, left, left, and left that and gone to join this company. Oh my God. We're fucked. So, but what's interesting about this Samsung phone is that might be a way to get people out of the ecosystem. If you could be the first to implement something like that. It's a real time translation. Imagine, think of that deep connection. Go to Italy, wherever, anywhere, anywhere. Go to a tribe anywhere. But don don't know. That would be tough. There's some, there's some undocumented languages. If you go into like indigenous Australia. Ah, okay. There's hundreds of languages. Yeah, no, no, no, you're right. My, my buddy Adam Greentree was explaining that to me. Yeah. Those, the, the, the people that live there, they call 'em, they, they, they call their their group mobs. Okay. And so there's mobs, these aborigines that are just 30 kilometers away from another mob and they don't even know how to talk to each other.

3 (3h 6m 39s):
Wow. They speak a totally different language. Well, that makes sense. Yeah. And there's hundreds of these different languages. Okay. So if you go over there with a phone, you're fucked. I got you. Because nobody knows. But that's just for now. For now nobody knows. Correct. But I bet AI will figure it out. I bet they'll get a bunch of fucking those people to talk into it and they'll de decode it and decipher it and figure out what it means. Yeah.

4 (3h 6m 58s):
Or they're already figured out. They're gonna slowly give you Yeah. First give them this one where they could talk to someone from France.

3 (3h 7m 4s):
Yeah. You're gonna get France, you're gonna get German, you're gonna get people Spanish. Yeah. Spanish will be the fir. Spanish would be number one. Right. 'cause that like, behind English, that's a second language. Yeah. You're gonna get the Arabic languages, you're gonna get Portuguese. You, it's gonna be interesting, man. But it's gonna happen in real time. That's a new thing. Once people can talk to each other in real time. Like, that's one of the cool things about translate. Like if you look at someone's tweet and you can press that translate button. Yes. So someone who's speaking Hebrew, you translate it and you're like, oh, this is what he's saying. Yes.

4 (3h 7m 35s):
Okay. No, I agree. Now, if you can have conversations Yes. Deep conversation with someone you've never met. And you, and the only thing kept you be from one another is not knowing each other's language. Exactly. Is, that's pretty amazing. This,

3 (3h 7m 46s):
This is in the Bible. This is the Tower of Babel. You know, this is what don don't know. The Bible was the T The Tower of Babel story is, it's a, I think it's supposed to be the, the lesson is supposed to be about human, human, whether it's ego or greed. But the idea is that God decided to confuse people by making them speak a bunch of different languages so they can never talk to each other. Mm. And it's because they drive. They tried to build a tower that touched the heavens. Is that, am I fucking that up? You got it. What is the actual thing? So I could No I mean you. I was, that is it. Yeah. Look, there's the picture. Oh, there it is. Okay. The picture of it.

3 (3h 8m 26s):
So God's like you motherfuckers, I'm gonna, I'm gonna fuck with you and make you spill. Build a bunch of different languages. You idiots. So according to the story, a united human race speaking a single language and migrating eastward comes to the land of nar where they agreed to build a city and a tower with its top in the sky, Yahweh observing their city and tower confounds their speech so that they can no longer understand each other and scatters them around the world. So what that might mean, the Bible, if you're thinking about it, it's, it's a written account of the last catastrophe and the people that made it outta the last catastrophe. So if at one point in time before the catastrophe, there was a single language that was spoken because they had reached this ability in terms of whether it's education or some kind of technology that allowed people to communicate with each other freely where everybody could speak.

3 (3h 9m 18s):
And then when the asteroid hits boom and civilization goes back in the stone age, people scatter. And then new languages develop. People forget the old languages. They run into people that have never even experienced it. They, they travel around the world and repopulate the earth and everyone forgets the universal language. Mm.

4 (3h 9m 37s):
I could see that happening. It's totally possible.

3 (3h 9m 39s):
Like think about the old, like, we don't even know just what ancient Sumerian sounded like. What they just guess like if you go, do you ever see how they used to write 6,000 years ago?

4 (3h 9m 49s):
Even Telecommunicate? Have you ever seen it? No.

3 (3h 9m 51s):
It's called qia form. It looks like old time nails like a nail going sideways and two nails going down. You look at it, you go, what the fuck is this? Alright. This is the old find some of that shit. This is the oldest known human language. That's how they used to write it right

4 (3h 10m 6s):
There. Yeah.

3 (3h 10m 7s):
I mean what the

4 (3h 10m 8s):
Fuck? and I bet you it's a whole story.

3 (3h 10m 10s):
I'm sure it is. They've deciphered some of it. It's, it is like very controversial. But there's a guy named Zacharia.

4 (3h 10m 16s):
Why is it controversial?

3 (3h 10m 17s):
Because I'm gonna tell you, there's a guy named Zacharia Sitin, and he wrote these books about his translations of the Sumerian text. And he said that it, it's all about the Anki, this species that lives on planet Nibiru that comes into contact with earth every like 3,600 years. And they created us and they, they use us to mine for gold. And they, they've, you know, merged with us and gave us, you know, our, their DNA into lower primates and created people. Right. And this guy was like a legit scholar. That's what's nuts about this, this, this whole fucking, this whole ancient Sumerian period is a wild period in human history.

4 (3h 10m 59s):
So what

3 (3h 10m 60s):
Else? 6,000 years ago.

4 (3h 11m 1s):
See, that's the part I always have a hard time with. Like, and people say it's 7,000, you 10,000. Yeah. How, how do they figure all that

3 (3h 11m 8s):
Out? Carbon dating. So what they do is you, and it's not exact to like the day in October.

4 (3h 11m 15s):
No, no.

3 (3h 11m 16s):
But it's in a range of a couple of hundred years, depending upon what kind of carbon date they use. But so they they get organic material. They get organic material that's from that area. Yeah. So if they dig down, they find a pot. Right. And then in that pot, they can take organic material outta that pot and then they can carbonate it. If that organic material is 10,000 years old, they can reasonably assume that pot is probably 10,000 years old too. Alright.

4 (3h 11m 40s):
That always just bothered my mind. That's what they

3 (3h 11m 42s):
Do. My mind, it's, I get, it's not exact, you know, it's, it's, it's really close. They're pretty good at it now. I think it's radiocarbon data. Radiocarbon dating is the most advanced version of, but they're constantly making better versions of this too. Hmm. That's how they know. Interesting. So these fucking people live 6,000 years ago, dude. And they talked about these beings that came from another planet, from heaven to earth came. Bro, that's the Anunnaki.

4 (3h 12m 10s):
I'm at the point where don don't know any, I I'm really I don know anything anymore. I really don't. Well, if we want, say, if we want to say, if you, 10 years ago, if you brought a flat earth to me, I'd be like, you know what? I can't even, I don't even want you in my house. I didn't want you

3 (3h 12m 26s):
Mask. And now you're like

4 (3h 12m 27s):
Eliminating. Now I'm like, oh, lemme

3 (3h 12m 29s):
Hear your argument. Wow.

4 (3h 12m 30s):
That's okay. Wow. You know, I never thought of it like that. Or if you bring up almost anything now, I go, oh wow. You know? Yeah. No,

3 (3h 12m 38s):
I'm getting good weed. That's what it is. Well,

4 (3h 12m 40s):
That's the scary part is don don't know if that's, if I am, that's the, if I had great weed, I might even be, I might figure it all out. Mm. But what I mean is I literally feel we really don't know anything anymore. Well, we know something. I'm at that point certainly know something. We know something, but

3 (3h 12m 60s):
We know a lot. But there's like an old quote that as the, the, the bonfire. What is it? It's a Dennis mechanic quote. He said something about as the, the, the bonfire of enlightenment grows, the surface area of ignorance is exposed. So the, the bigger the, the fire of knowledge grows, the, the more areas exposed, you realize how much you don't know. So in the beginning, people never thought about subatomic particles. As the bonfire of knowledge grows brighter, the more the darkness is revealed to our startled eyes. That's the quote. It's beautiful quote. Oh, it's Terrence McKenna quote that. So that quote is like, what's going on? Like, as much as we think we know, we're still in the, we're one day people in the future will look back at us like, we look back at fucking idiots making arrowheads outta rocks.

4 (3h 13m 48s):
Right. That's what, right. At the end of the day, and, and I, that's what

3 (3h 13m 51s):
They're gonna think about us. We're

4 (3h 13m 52s):
Idiot. And also think about don don't want to Bible whatever. How do we know when you're in truly a biblical time? Like we could be in it right now. And how do we know who the prophets are and how do we know if there's not prophets among us, how do we know? Well, if the Bible,

3 (3h 14m 11s):
Well listen, if the Bible's real, you're always in a biblical time. So if the Bible is a representation of the actual history of the universe, if that's what it really is, it's just told through the telephone game to like a thousand years and then written down and Right. But think about in the beginning there was light. Isn't that the Big Bang

4 (3h 14m 29s):
I don? Dude, I don't, I don't I

3 (3h 14m 31s):
Mean. If you think about just parts of the idea of God creating the earth and God creating the universe and doing it quickly, the fucking Big Bang was pretty goddamn quick. I mean it wasn't six days, but it's pretty fucking crazy that something just existed. Now if you were a person that had been told that, and then you tell other people that for a thousand years, right. And then someone writes it down, maybe that's what you get. Maybe you get God created, you know, the heavens and the earth in six days. Maybe that is their version of the origin of the universe as it was told to people that understood it 10,000 years ago, 12,000 years ago, whatever it was. Right. And then when we got wiped out and we had to refigure things out again, you just get these stories, these whispers of the past

4 (3h 15m 12s):
I feel of

3 (3h 15m 12s):
What happened. We,

4 (3h 15m 13s):
We should always be writing the new future rather than depending on Yeah,

3 (3h 15m 19s):
Depending on the past.

4 (3h 15m 20s):
Depending on the past. Start writing the now for the better and create a new, create the new story.

3 (3h 15m 29s):
I think we are doing that. I do too. I just think it's a long, arduous process. And it's not linear. It's not like you always win and the we're

4 (3h 15m 36s):
Not gonna get it right away. Correct. Yeah. Right.

3 (3h 15m 38s):
Yeah. There's a a struggle going on right now with human nature and human beings and, and it, it's all happening all over the world.

4 (3h 15m 46s):
Someone, someone made a good ex, I heard the old example, like you're rat in a cage and all you know is like you drink from that water bottle and you're fed every day at this time and it smash

3 (3h 15m 56s):
Some pumpkins, bro.

4 (3h 15m 57s):
Yes. There you go. On

24 (3h 15m 58s):
My right. I'm down. Rat

4 (3h 16m 2s):
Whack and whack. Fuck yeah. Whatever. I have conversations, whether it's for my wife or whatever. And we get into this, I always just go de despite all my rage,

3 (3h 16m 11s):
Gimme some of that to close this out

4 (3h 16m 12s):
With just a rat. You figured it all out.

3 (3h 16m 17s):
Oh my god. That is the teenage. You could figure it all out ant song.

4 (3h 16m 20s):
But you could, we could talk about everything and anything over and over and over at the end of the day, despite

24 (3h 16m 26s):
All my rage,

4 (3h 16m 28s):
Still just a rat. The way he says Rat rat K one. So amazing. Yeah. And you take the cage off. Lot of them still don't leave that perimeter. People

3 (3h 16m 41s):
Don't know what to do. Jim Breuer, dude,

4 (3h 16m 43s):
It's a great song. What a great red. Oh God. Thanks for

3 (3h 16m 46s):
Having me. My pleasure, my brother. It's always Good to see you. Thanks video bud. We've been friends with a long time. Long time. We've been friends for a long time.

4 (3h 16m 51s):
Yeah, man, you're a good QI

3 (3h 16m 52s):
Love to death. You are. I love, love you bro. and I love you a lot. and I. Love that. We've always been close all these years. Me too. We've been friends for how many, dude, it's 30,

4 (3h 17m 0s):
Like 19

3 (3h 17m 2s):
Years now. At least th might be 34

4 (3h 17m 4s):
Years. At least. 34. I wanna say it was 91 ish.

3 (3h 17m 7s):
Yeah. Somewhere around then. 91

4 (3h 17m 9s):
Maybe.

24 (3h 17m 12s):
No, I saw post I show Oh my. Cool. And call like a, despite my rage, I'm still just around a cage.

3 (3h 17m 30s):
Goodnight everybody. We love you to death. We're gonna work this out folks. We are, we're gonna work this out. It's gonna, it's

4 (3h 17m 36s):
Gonna end well.

3 (3h 17m 36s):
Peace and love.