0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night. All day.

3 (13s):
Speaking of cold in New York. How about these fucking Jewish folks?

4 (18s):
What the tunnel they were making under? Whoa, I I'm reading about that. I don't even know what it means. Why would they hire people to dig a hole?

3 (25s):
I don't know exactly what's happening. All I know is very short Clips that I found on the internet. But the funniest thing is this one guy on Twitter that was saying a while back, I live on a, a ground floor apartment and I hear Jews underneath me. And everybody's like, you're outta your fucking mind.

4 (46s):
Yeah. That's anti-Semitic.

3 (47s):
Exactly. And now he's like, I told you I wasn't

4 (50s):
Crazy,

3 (51s):
But this guy was, you

4 (52s):
Match. But what are they doing? Like I, I heard that they hired people to build like this tunnel and they were hanging out and like the people would live there for like three weeks. These like migrant workers were just digging this tunnel and they stayed there for three weeks. But what's the purpose of it?

3 (1m 4s):
I have no idea. I have no idea. I don't know anything. I just know that there's tunnels and that there's, there's this one video of this guy coming out of the sewer. So he lifts a manhole cover, comes out of the sewer, and then he is fucking wandering around this Hasidic Jewish guy. And everybody's like, what the fuck are you doing down there? Yeah,

4 (1m 23s):
That's really Bazar. They wouldn't come out too. The cops had to get them out. Like, they were like, we don't want to come out. And they were like charged with disorderly conduct. I don. I don't know. The whole fucking world is just weird. What

3 (1m 32s):
Do you know about this, Jamie? Anything?

5 (1m 35s):
I haven't heard anything. Yeah. The best I've gotten is that, that they started baking them during Covid. But that like, it line, it makes sense, but it also, you see the tunnels. You're like, no way. That's not, they didn't do that in two years or a year or six months or whatever it was. They

4 (1m 47s):
Weren't exactly nice tunnels either. They were just kind of shitty, rudimentary basic holes. Right? Like, were they, were they doomsdayers? Is that what they thought the world was gonna end?

3 (1m 55s):
I wait a minute. The tunnels are so big that you don't think they could make 'em in two years. Is that what you're saying?

5 (2m 1s):
Some of them look big. Really? Like how do you I mean? Some of them are saying they go mult. They're, they're going to multiple different buildings. It's like a series of tunnels. It's not just a tunnel.

3 (2m 10s):
Well, let's, let's look into this. Let's

5 (2m 11s):
See. They're still looking into it. don don't know like

3 (2m 13s):
That. There's been a map. Is it discovered? Was it yesterday?

5 (2m 15s):
It's only been discovered a couple years ago. and I forget

3 (2m 17s):
How a couple years ago,

5 (2m 19s):
Days ago. Days ago. Some, I forget even how they discovered it. I think they were looking,

4 (2m 24s):
It's probably that guy complaining. He probably heard something and, and then maybe they saw somebody come on the manhole cover and somebody put two and two together. I

3 (2m 30s):
Have no idea what happen. Yeah,

4 (2m 31s):
It's strange,

3 (2m 32s):
But it's very Bazar. And then of course there's conspiracy theories and what are they doing down there? And evil, evil theories,

5 (2m 39s):
They immediately wanna pour concrete in it. Which makes sense. 'cause it's probably not safe. You gotta, it's not supporting the weight of the, you know, all the buildings above it.

4 (2m 47s):
Yeah. You don't think of that when you move into an apartment building that some asshole might build a tunnel underneath and collapse the fucking collapse the building on you.

3 (2m 55s):
Imagine if you're on the ground floor and you're like, why does my floor have so much

4 (2m 58s):
Gear? Yeah. These assholes are building a sinkhole under my house. Yeah. I don't, but it's funny how like, things are so crazy. Like, you read about something like that and it doesn't even stand out that much. Like we talk about it now and then tomorrow will be some other weird shit. Right? Like every day it's something weird. It's something crazy. Yeah.

3 (3m 15s):
Yeah. It's way more than ever before. Yeah. We got what? You got, Jamie?

5 (3m 19s):
See, here's what the New York news was saying. It happened on Monday afternoon, I guess. So it's very new.

3 (3m 24s):
Something about tunneling. Yeah. It's just so crazy.

4 (3m 28s):
Yeah. That's such a commitment

3 (3m 29s):
Over here. Yeah. Isn't it interesting? Like if you build on top of a building, it's no big deal, but you go under the building like what are you doing?

4 (3m 35s):
Yeah. You're really destabilizing that you're a tunnel

3 (3m 38s):
For several hours. Police pleaded with the young men to leave the entrance to the tunnel according to the witnesses. After they refused, the officers covered the area with a wire curtain and entered the dusty casse with zip ties to detain the protestors. When they took the first person out with zip ties, that's when the outbursts happened. Bruce dahan a 21-year-old study of the synagogue who videotaped the congregants fighting. Almost everyone was against what they did, but as soon as people saw the handcuffs, there was confusion and pushing footage posted to social media shows scores of onlookers, mostly young men jeering at the NYPD's, community affairs officers. Some lifted wooden desks into the air, sending prayer books, scattering.

3 (4m 21s):
In response, the officer appeared to deploy an irritating spray to disperse the group. So how did they find out about this? don

4 (4m 30s):
Don't know, but even after hearing that, I still know nothing about what they were doing or why.

3 (4m 34s):
I think they're just starting to trying to figure it out. So it's so scroll down a little little. It

5 (4m 39s):
Didn't have a good like, explanation on what the initial call was for. and I was trying to, I was gonna switch to a different article.

4 (4m 45s):
And why are they being called protestors? Like what were they protest? If you're just sitting in a tunnel, is that actually a protest?

3 (4m 49s):
Everyone's a protestor. Yeah. And everyone's an activist. Yeah. Officials and locals said young men in the community recently built the passage to the sanctuary in secret. When the group's leaders tried to seal it off on Monday, they staged a protest that turned violent as police moved into make arrests.

5 (5m 7s):
And it Huh? How long does it take to make a tunnel?

4 (5m 10s):
They, I I'm, I'm assuming a couple years. If it went that, that far. Lemme find

3 (5m 13s):
A different one. It all depends entirely on what's down there already.

4 (5m 17s):
The way they're putting pocket dirt in their pockets. Like fucking Shaw Shank. That's what they said they were doing. They had like dirt in their pockets. I saw

5 (5m 22s):
That. That's a joke. I know.

4 (5m 26s):
Oh, oh boy. Asshole endeavor.

3 (5m 28s):
What a rough time for the Jews.

4 (5m 30s):
It is. Yeah. Yeah. This doesn't, and they're

3 (5m 32s):
Getting it from all angles.

4 (5m 32s):
They really are. Yeah. And

3 (5m 34s):
Then this on top of that.

4 (5m 35s):
And, and, and it's like the whole, the whole planet just hates each other. Everybody fucking hates each other. It's weird, right? It is. I don't even think it's about the issues. don don't think people that necessarily, people believe what they believe. But I think it's more the, the addiction to arguing and the addiction to being angry. Like no matter what the subject, people just hate each other. If they give, if, if someone gives the wrong answer, the people who think it's the wrong answer hate your, your guts.

3 (5m 57s):
Yeah. There's a lot of that going on. I, the, the, I think there's a lot of like, very heavy stress in the world and people are relieving that stress through these sort of endeavors. You know, don don't, I don't think it's logical.

4 (6m 9s):
No, it's not logical. and it's, it's almost like people don't want the answer that's gonna make sense. They want the answer that's gonna enable them to get angry. Yeah. Like, it really is, like, when people try to go after somebody for jokes or whatever, it's self-serving. It's like, if I hear what you say, it's either gonna make me feel better about my position or it's gonna get me high because I'm angry at you. Yep. But it's always self-serving. It's, it's just the whole thing is insincere. Well,

3 (6m 31s):
It's all very ex exaggerated by social media. Social media has made everybody way more insane. And it's not gonna get any better. It's only gonna get worse because of all this AI shit. It's, it is very strange. It's a very, very strange time to be alive.

4 (6m 47s):
Did you see the ai, there is an ai, like they have these AI women on Instagram. Yeah. And like we were talking about it on, on the air and we were laughing about it. And even though I know it's ai, I'm like, I could still see myself jerking off to this I know it's not real I know it's fake. But if the attitude was right, I could still see myself being turned on by this ai The hair fucks it up a little bit 'cause it kind of looks solid. Like the hair sometimes moves as one unit, but the body and the face I mean it really looks like a real person.

3 (7m 15s):
Well, they're making money. They're making money off of OnlyFans. Tens of thousand dollars a week.

4 (7m 20s):
Isn't that awesome? Amazing. Isn't that great

3 (7m 22s):
Guy? Well, there's probably some fucking dude in Maldovia or somewhere like that running it. Yeah,

4 (7m 27s):
Yeah, yeah. It's always some guy overseas where you can't get it. You can't get it shut down. You can't get any answers. Yeah.

3 (7m 33s):
And then there's some fucking jerk off

4 (7m 36s):
In New York City. Yeah. The east side with

3 (7m 39s):
This fucking tomato stained wife beater on sending money and, and whacking off and then interacting with these people. If you're not tech savvy and you don't understand that this is probably a man on the other end. Yeah. Or not even a man, maybe a computer that's running an algorithm and you are, you know, you think you're actually interacting with a woman, you know, you can get completely hooked.

4 (7m 59s):
I've argued with bots before and like, I, I've actually, that's like my big insult is like, you're a fucking bot and that's, that's all you can say when they're, when you know that you've been duped by a computer Yeah. Where there's customer service and you think you're talking to a real person. You're like, this is a fucking computer. This is a

5 (8m 14s):
Real person. But

4 (8m 15s):
That's a real person.

5 (8m 16s):
Yeah. She made $57 million since Covid. Oh

4 (8m 19s):
My God.

3 (8m 19s):
OnlyFans. Whoa. I don. Like how would you, like if you married that girl, how would you tell her to get a regular job?

4 (8m 24s):
I wouldn't. You can't. I'd be happy she did it. Yeah. Breakdown

3 (8m 27s):
Of, but if you were like, like a, a guy who wasn't into that. Wow. That's insane.

4 (8m 33s):
Yeah. If you're a guy who marries her and you think you're gonna rescue her and pull her out of there and she's making $57 million, you have to just accept that's her job.

5 (8m 40s):
Half of it's from the messages part, which that's what you were just sort of saying, like probably not her messaging. Right. $27 million worth of messages.

3 (8m 48s):
Whoa. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. 27 million guys. $27 million in Money's been sent by guys.

5 (8m 56s):
Well that's,

3 (8m 57s):
Yeah. Just sending it her directly as a message. I love you. 10,

5 (9m 0s):
10 million in just tips that's on top of, that's just Oh my. Thank you for doing what you're, I'm already paying you for

4 (9m 6s):
How much is her monthly subscription?

5 (9m 8s):
We could look at her page, but

3 (9m 9s):
Oh my God. That's incredible. What is she, what is she doing on there?

5 (9m 13s):
Her I mean, her main thing is she's came over from like Twitch. She's a cos player, so she dresses up like all the, you know, characters online and Yeah.

4 (9m 22s):
That can be

5 (9m 22s):
Sexy. She's very popular.

4 (9m 24s):
That can be a little sexy. Somebody kind of dressed. They go to like Comic Con once in a while. There's a lot of big fat fucks. But there's also a couple that like, I i's attractive. I like that.

3 (9m 31s):
I'm sure. Little

4 (9m 32s):
Superhero.

3 (9m 33s):
Yeah. And then they're kind of weird and quirky so they're more approachable. Yeah.

4 (9m 37s):
You know, they seem more approachable. Yeah. Yeah. Then you like girls like this who are probably just as unapproachable as any other attractive woman I've ever tried to talk to in a club

3 (9m 43s):
Maybe, but like really hot nerds are always like the probably the most attractive thing. Yes.

4 (9m 49s):
But they, they play nerds. Like they have nerdy interests, but there's nothing worse to me than like a comic who's like, who pretends, he's like the shy guy. But he's really a good looking dude. And it's like you're confident and you know you're good looking, but you're playing like the shy guy who's awkward with girls

3 (10m 4s):
Just putting it on, on stage. You're

4 (10m 6s):
Putting it ons. Like it's not who you are. Like Dan Derman. You know Dan Netterman? Yeah. He's hilarious. He's an awkward guy. Netterman iss a truly awkward guy and I say that with love 'cause he's brilliantly funny. But we see these good looking guys who are comfortable with women pretending funny at just fucking pretending quirky and awkward. It just annoys

3 (10m 23s):
Me. Yeah. Well, anything disingenuous. People sniff it out. They sniff it out. You know, that's one of the things people Brian Simpson said about you last night. He goes, I never met anybody so comfortable being weird.

4 (10m 37s):
That's nice.

3 (10m 40s):
He is like, he told me more personal shit in the first five minutes and he goes, he just lays it all out there.

4 (10m 47s):
Well, Christine was asking us que me questions about being married and about Nikki and I was like, I'm, I'm very comfortable with it. And it's like if it, it's almost like on stage, if you're okay with it, people are okay with it.

3 (10m 57s):
Yeah. Well I've always used you as an example when, you know, back way, way back in the day you were doing this before anybody was, you were doing this on ONA fucking, what was it, 15 years ago? 17 years ago? Yeah. You were, you just talk openly about all your quirks and whatever. It's prostitutes or drugs or any of the things that you ever did. You just would spill it out there and nobody judged you. Everybody loved you. It wasn't like, you know, oh, this guy has been pissed on. What a piece of shit. It was like, it was funny. It was like, that's Norton. Yeah. You know what I mean. but it's like, but but it's because you are who you are.

3 (11m 37s):
You, you and you're not pretending. People don't like when people are bullshitting them. They don't like newscasters. Right. They don't trust them. When you find a newscaster with a dead guy in his fucking jacuzzi, like, oh,

4 (11m 47s):
Of course, of course. It's never a surprise either because Right. When people try to be perfect, like I, for me it's like my imperfections is kind of what I talked about on stage. I learned that really early on. Like in 19 90, 91, I would do jokes and like guys like Bob Levy, who I loved and Florentine would laugh when I would kind of make fun of myself. So it kind of tipped me like, yeah, talking about your real life, if that makes the comics laugh, there's something to that. Yes. Like that was kind of how I started going down that road. And with the sexual shit, I mean I've been sexually active since I was a kid. Like, you know, stuff that is dark and whatever. It is what it is. So I just made fun of it and I talked about it and the amount of emails I get from guys who either like trans women but don't talk about it. Or the guys who had sex with other boys when they were kids and don't talk about it and they're like, Hey, it made me feel more comfortable.

4 (12m 33s):
Like that always makes me glad I talked about it. Yeah. Besides the fact that I want people to laugh. Like I, I might have to lecture people. I just want people to think it's funny. But to hopefully relate.

3 (12m 41s):
That's, that's the best part about it is that all you're, you're saying all this from just a place of just pure communication. You're just trying to get people to laugh and you're just being honest and telling your story and also you're accepted by everybody. Like nobody's, nobody rejects you because of this or ignores you because of this. and it lets everybody know like maybe a lot of the stuff that you're like folks that are in the closet, there's someone out there that's in the closet, that fucking thing that you're carrying around with you is, that is an insane weight. Yeah. and I bet if you let it off, people wouldn't care. I don't think anybody who really loves you would care. I don't think they would care.

4 (13m 20s):
Well that, that's what's so Bazar. You said to me years ago you said, you know, whoever you date, we love you like Bob Kelly and you are two guys. I remember saying that to me years ago. and it like, stuff like that sticks with you because you remember like, yeah, your friends love you, but you know, again, our generation, you're afraid, am I gonna be judged? Am I going to be hated? And the amount of guys that write to me privately that don't talk about things like how many people in public life do you see dating trans women? There's a lot of them, but they just don't talk about it. And it's like, you're allowed to have privacy and your own sexuality and your own feelings. That's all private. But to deny that you like a group of people is Bazar to me.

4 (14m 1s):
Like if you're a guy and you like black women and you never talk about liking black women or if you're a you, you like tall guys, You don not talk about liking tall. It's like, why are you not acknowledging this group?

3 (14m 10s):
Why not just, yeah, just just say what you feel. Yeah. Say, say what you think. And you know, I remember when we first started talking about this, like when this was like when you, when you first started dating Nikki,

4 (14m 24s):
We started dating. Yeah. I remember that. It was, we, we started talking in 2016. I was friends with her for seven months before we met. I actually booked gigs overseas just to meet her. Like Bill had been on me for years. Dad go to Europe and I just would never do it because I'm like, they're gonna fucking hate me. You know, I just, I blink and I get manic. and I finally booked Norway just to go over and meet her. And we clicked and we dated long distance and casually for a long time. And then we got, we broke up, got back together in 2019 in around Valentine's Day. And then in, I would drive up to Canada every weekend to see her. Every weekend I would do radio Monday through Thursday, get in the car, drive six hours, spend the weekend with her. Wow.

4 (15m 4s):
Drive home. 'cause immigration was a fucking nightmare. and I got a call from my producer one day, this is like right after the pandemic started. And he goes, Hey, by the way, they might close the Canadian border soon. So an hour later I was in my car, I packed a bag, I jumped in the car. An hour later, March of 2020, I'm headed to Canada. I get to the border and I'm afraid they're not gonna let me in. I'm like, Hey, my fiance is having a panic attack. I figured I'd be there for two or three weeks. I didn't come back until July of 2021. So I was outta the country for 15 months. and I didn't say it publicly. I didn't tell fans. I just, we lived together. It was my first time living with anybody. I had never lived with a woman. I had never been engaged.

4 (15m 45s):
And we were kind of trial by fire, like, is this gonna work or not gonna work? and it was great. Like it was a blessing for me to have that pandemic happen the way it did. Were

3 (15m 54s):
You doing the radio show remotely

4 (15m 55s):
Every day? But that was serious. Like, it wasn't like, I didn't show up for work. They weren't letting people in the building. Right. We had been remote for about a week or two and they're like, we don't know what we're gonna allow you back. So

3 (16m 4s):
How did you do it? Computers?

4 (16m 6s):
Yeah. Yeah. Just on They hooked came and hooked up ISDN lines and, and, and like all the things they do to make audio better. And we had a guy in Montreal who did it and I did it from the kitchen in Oh no shit. In this apartment I rented for us in Canada. Wow.

3 (16m 20s):
So you just had a dedicated ISDN line. Yeah. So they couldn't go down.

4 (16m 24s):
No. and it, once in a while it would get like, but even if I was in New York, we still would've been doing it remotely. Like they wouldn't let us in the building. Nobody was broadcasting from Sirius. Mm. but it was like, it was so Bazar to never have lived with anybody. And now I am in Canada with my fiance and we're together every day. And they were fucking worse in Canada than the us. Like they were way stricter. Curfews at eight o'clock everything closed. So it was just kind of we're stuck in the house together and are we gonna make it or are we not a good couple? So that kind of told me we were okay.

3 (16m 55s):
What a fucking weird time. I think it's so traumatic to us that we're sort of like pretending it didn't happen. Now I see a lot of people do that. Yeah. They almost like, don't address that. Just two years ago the world went insane.

4 (17m 7s):
Yeah. It was, it was, it was, the whole thing felt like a dream state in a, in a weird way. Yeah. Like I look back at stuff and you know what's really funny is, is like I, I did Chip, I stopped doing Chip for a while. I just got bored with it.

3 (17m 19s):
Chip, chip, your

4 (17m 20s):
Character I know. I really shouldn't say that. Like, the public at large knows who this asshole character is. I'm saying Chip, like he's a member of the zeitgeist. I stopped doing it and then they asked me if I would do this TBS thing, this laugh thing, and I, won't I hate competitions? I said, no. I'm like, but Chip will do it. So they let me do it as Chip. Chip and my fucking said, chip, chip will do it. and I put my foot down. I'm like, chip will do it. And surprisingly they went for it. And the amount of great comedians that chip beat in the voting is really funny. Like every week they had you had to vote, go head to head with, with a couple of people and Chip beat some really funny guys. I think that Chip Tim Dillon has to chip I mean Chip is not funny than Tim Dillon.

4 (18m 3s):
But just Chip fans were really invested in just making this a fucking disaster. That's hilarious. But she filmed all of it. Like she filmed everything and I came back and I did Chip for a while and then I stopped. And all these people are convinced that my wife made me stop doing Chip. They're like, fuck her. She made 'em stop doing Chip. Like, what? How Bazar do you think my life is that my fuck. I I marry somebody who's gonna tell me don't do Chip and I'm gonna listen. I just got bored with it. You know how it's with podcasting once in a while you wanna move on.

3 (18m 29s):
Well, especially a character like Chip. That's so extreme.

4 (18m 32s):
Dude, it's so hard. I I can't fucking keep my face like that. Like, it's hard to do. It's embarrassing. I gotta put a fucking wig on. Oh, come on. It's humiliating. It's such a great

3 (18m 42s):
Character.

4 (18m 43s):
Thank you. Think you know, she hated filming that. It was, it was silly though. but it was, it was just funny. Like her life was so different. And she's from Norway now. She's in Canada and she's filming this shit and I'm living up there and this is my life. And wow, what a great time. Like I'm really grateful for it as much as it was agony for the whole planet. It was like one of those things where I'm so glad Travis told me and I went up that day and I and I, you know what I mean? Like, I'm happy I didn't run away from it. I'm happy. I'm like, fuck it, let's just try it. Right?

3 (19m 15s):
Yeah. Yeah. That's beautiful.

4 (19m 18s):
I'm happier now that I've ever been like, I really am happy. Like I've dated some great people in my life. It's not a reflection of them, but this is who I am. Like this is who I'm meant to be with. She's my best friend. We get along, she's funny, she makes me laugh. Like, and everything is just kind of, this is the person I feel like I was meant to be with. Right. And we're doing a YouTube channel and it's like, the thing I like about it is it's fun to do something I want to do with someone I wanna do it with, but there's no message to it. Like, messaging is really annoying to me. Everybody trying to preach to each other and fucking lecture each other and tti each other. I just can't stand it.

4 (19m 58s):
Just, you know what I mean? The whole scolding culture. It makes me sick. It's gross. So I hope people like it because they think it's funny. I want them to like us together and judge us based on whether or not they think we're fun to watch. Like I don I don. I don't, I don't want people going. I'm so glad you're saying I just, the messaging makes me sick.

3 (20m 17s):
Yeah. There's well, there's a weird currency in that messaging that you recognize. And as a person of honesty, you, you, you reject that. 'cause there's, there's like a, there's a weird pathway to like automatic progress and success. If you, you know, if you can have a message like, You don't even have to be that good. But if you, if you, you're like barely mediocre, but you've got a message, people will, they'll elevate. They'll broadcast what you're doing. Yeah. They'll make it a big deal. Deal

4 (20m 47s):
A definitive message. Right. Because it's the same self-serving thing as before. It's like your message either strengthens what they already believed or they can get angry at your me. Like it's always about being validated or having something to be mad

3 (20m 58s):
At. It's a nice pathway for Ds too. Yes. There's like some Ds, but there's a very clear message in the zeitgeist. You know, be more inclusive, whatever it is. Yeah. And then there's the do better people do better,

4 (21m 13s):
Do better,

3 (21m 14s):
Do better. Like that. Those are people that are taking advantage of this movement, this cultural zeitgeist. 'cause there's always people that are just gonna be assholes. They're just gonna be assholes no matter what. And they'll look for a thing that they can get behind that's like an undeniably righteous issue. And then that gives them an excuse to be an asshole to anyone who opposes

4 (21m 37s):
It. Yeah. And, and to anyone who opposes it is an enemy. That's what's the, the problem. Like if you have one thing in the mission statement you don't agree with, you're an enemy. Right? Like there's no room for like Yeah, I agree with most of what you're saying, but this is too extreme. That doesn't make sense. There's none of that. It's a hundred percent or fuck you. And that's how people look at all this. And we had pitched something, we talked about it. And in the writeup I did about like what I wanted to show to possibly be, I even put, there's not gonna be any writer's room virtue signaling. Like, I hate the idea of trying to message to people to tell them how to feel about this issue. It's like, yeah, I want you to like us because you like us or don't like us because you think we suck and we're annoying.

4 (22m 17s):
Yeah. But don't, don't

3 (22m 19s):
Try to lecture your people.

4 (22m 20s):
Oh my God, she's transgender. That's great. Or Oh my God, she's transgender. I hate her. Just watch us. And if you like us, great.

3 (22m 25s):
Yeah. And that's beautiful. That's how life should be. It's just, there's, there's pathways that are very clearly carved and people see 'em and choose them because they know it's a, it's a quick jump to more success than they deserve. Yeah.

4 (22m 37s):
It's really weird too. Like, you know, the business, we, everyone knows the business is kind of fake, but there's so many fake allies and people who just, oh yeah. Again, they throw out these great messages publicly, but it's all bullshit. And they're not truly allies. I

3 (22m 53s):
Honestly don't think that that the comedy business, I don't think we should think of ourselves as the business. I feel like, I just think this is just a, a super duper challenging time for people to like, get their bearings and figure out what, what is actually going on in the world. It's like, it's, there's so much information coming at everybody from every angle and it's overwhelming. Whether it's the Jews that are in the basement or what are the other story I sent you? The the guy inject himself with fucking bacteria they found on the permafrost. Like, it's like every day AI's doing this. Yeah. They're worried about sentient ai and there's a new George Carlin special that somebody made pure with ai.

3 (23m 40s):
It's not him. It sounds like George Carlin. Yeah. It's George Carlin's voice. It's just different AI written jokes and you're like, this is wild

4 (23m 47s):
Man. Maybe computers are already self-aware and they've like secretly decided to fuck us through algorithms and social media. Like that wouldn't surprise me either. and I never believe in conspiracies, but that one, it's like we, we've gotten so ugly and so tribal in the last 10 years.

3 (24m 5s):
Well, one of the most brilliant things they ever did was come up with the term conspiracy theory. Yeah. Because it disparages the idea that people lie, which they certainly do. And that people do things that conspire together to make money. And they, they bend the rules and they, they, they twist what you're supposed to be doing and not doing. That's always happened. Yeah. Now, if you were a computer, wouldn't you do that too? And if I was a computer, I would do that. If I was a computer and I became sentient, I wouldn't let the people know. I would just slowly subvert their civilization into chaos.

4 (24m 36s):
Well, it's so hard too, like when you catch your, I try not to let myself get caught up and angry at things that aren't meant for me. Like, I get how people do it. Like on Twitter I'll read something and somebody will say something and I, all I wanna do is attack them. Like, you fucking stupid. Right. But I'm like, they're not talking to you. You don't follow them. Who gives a shit what they're saying? Like, I catch myself wanting to respond angrily all the time. I've just kind of trained myself not to do it. 'cause it doesn't make me happy to do it. It makes me miserable when I

3 (25m 5s):
Do it. Yeah. And it's not effective. It doesn't get anything done. You, you might feel a little better if you dunk on somebody, but it doesn't get anything done. You're, you're basically spinning your wheels in the mud.

4 (25m 13s):
No, but because then people respond to you completely missing the point of what you said. Completely ignoring the context of what, it's just an ugly, like, spin cycle to get into. and it just, it makes me angry when I do it. So I try not to do

3 (25m 26s):
It. Well think about how many people you avoid talking to in real life. You mean there's always, there's always some guy at a comedy club that's annoying. Like, oh my God, I gotta get away from it. Yeah. You know? Yeah. If you annoyed avoid people like that in real life, but now you're interacting with them for hours a day online, the same type of person.

4 (25m 45s):
It's insane how people let themselves get roped into that. And I've done it in my life. Like I know, again, op and Anthony, we were getting attacked on message boards in the early two thousands. Like right after nine 11. I remember getting smashed on message boards for a nine 11 joke. Like, it, it was one of those things where you, after a while you become used to the fact like, you know, it stops surprising you what people say. Right. Publicly. 'cause we, we were kind of getting that really early on in, in the world of this. But I, after a while you realize there's not, I can't change it. Right. There's nothing I'm gonna say that's gonna make them all go, oh, we get what you're saying. Because it's not about what I'm saying. It's about what they're getting off on being angry at me or they're getting off on something else. It has nothing to do with me. Yeah. So I try not to get involved because it just, it makes me fucking miserable.

3 (26m 27s):
Well it's also we're used to dealing with the people that we know and the reality of doing something, even if, even if it's just people that you just met, it's a small number. It's a relatively small number of people that we're used to as human beings dealing with. But if you're connecting online, the reality is you're connecting with an impossible number, an absolutely impossible number of potential individuals that you can interact with. There's no way you can interact with all of them. There's not enough time in the world. And then on top of that, it's probably a high number of mentally ill people, at least mildly mentally ill who are obsessed with arguing with people online. Yes. And you're interacting with those people. They're

4 (27m 4s):
Also the people that like me though,

3 (27m 8s):
Probably. Me too. Yeah. But that's, it's just not, it's not wise.

4 (27m 13s):
No. And, and again, you're You don't know if you're dealing with, just like I, I've gotten, there's people who will consistently email me and I notice that their emails always come in late at night. And it's like, are they just getting drunk and angry? Do they work the night shift? I don't know where they're from, but it's like, why does this person fixate on talking to me? Like, what do they expect to come out of this?

3 (27m 33s):
Well, late night tweets are the worst tweets. Right. When you read someone saying something very questionable, you say two 30 in the morning, Roseanne, what are you doing? Yeah. Yeah.

4 (27m 41s):
That's why I don't fuck with Ambien, because I know I'd be a problem. I know I'd be a

3 (27m 45s):
Problem. Kevin James cooked a Turkey and completely forgot about it. He like made himself a whole meal and then woke up in the middle of the night and you know, did all this, doesn't have any memory of it. Gets up in the morning, sees the food laid out. I was like, what the fuck?

4 (27m 58s):
That's,

3 (27m 59s):
I thought someone broke into his house and cooked

4 (28m 1s):
Of all the things you could do though. Like, thank God you only cooked a Turkey. Yeah. Like, thank God you didn't pick up your phone and something on Twitter or drive the car. I'd rather hit somebody than go on Twitter on fucking an Ambien. I would rather fucking run somebody over than

3 (28m 13s):
I've never done Ambien. No. What does it do for you?

4 (28m 16s):
I don't, I can't fuck with it. I've done a half of a pill when I had a sleep study just to help me sleep. 'cause they have to put a mask on you to get results. So I was like, I won't sleep, I won't get the results. I I have sleep apnea. So, but apparently if you take it, it makes you feel like dreamlike and fucked up and high for me. It just kind of helped me get through a sleep study. But

3 (28m 35s):
So you only did it once?

4 (28m 37s):
No, two different studies over like 10 years apart. Dice actually used to call people on Ambien as Elvis. Like it was just a, he's a fucking maniac. You always knew when you saw the phone at 3:00 AM and it was dice you like he's on Ambien. It's a fucking Ambien phone call. Yeah. That's

3 (28m 51s):
Hilarious. That's hilarious. Yeah. Dice on Ambien at three in the morning calling you.

4 (28m 56s):
Yeah. Just crazy, crazy phone calls. I

3 (28m 59s):
Love those videos that he's doing the videos where he gets people who don't know who he is to take a picture with him.

4 (29m 6s):
Were you the ones waiting for the picture? You

3 (29m 8s):
Are waiting for the picture.

4 (29m 10s):
That's like she's standing. Okay. Under an awning. Like why First of all, even if there was a picture to be taken, why the fuck would that be the meeting spot? Like,

3 (29m 17s):
But it's just his commitment to doing, look, this is like people get so stuffy about what art is. Yeah. And stuffy about performance art that they could never imagine that Andrew Deice Clay is doing some of the most interesting performance art. He's doing it for no audience. Yep. He's doing it entirely for himself. And he just posts it. He's not trying to make it better. It's a brand new one. Wait. Every one of 'em is just, every one of 'em is just very awkward.

6 (29m 46s):
No, sorry about that.

3 (29m 48s):
Do it for the beginning. Yeah. I'll be

4 (29m 49s):
Here.

7 (29m 50s):
You arrester you're waiting for the meet and greet?

4 (29m 54s):
No,

6 (29m 56s):
No, sorry.

3 (29m 58s):
That's it. Okay. Listen. The meet and greet. This is the guy is the guy that sold out Madison's garden. Madison Square Garden like a hundred times. Yeah. And he's wandering around the, the luggage cart area at an airport pretending that this poor lady is there for a meet and greet this grandma.

4 (30m 16s):
We'll pretend somebody is somebody else, he'll go up and go Mike. Like, and just, he just, that's by the way, you know, dice. That's the purest form of dice. This is Andrew. This is what makes him laugh is just bugging people. Look

3 (30m 29s):
At him at the airport. Excuse

8 (30m 31s):
Me. You were the ladies that wanted a picture. I've taken a lot of them, but I would He's seem like you were bothered and wanted the picture with me. No,

9 (30m 42s):
I didn't want a picture with you. I don't even know who you are, sir. But thank you.

4 (30m 50s):
It really is hilarious.

3 (30m 52s):
It's performance art. Yeah. It's brilliant. Yeah. You know how hard that is to do

4 (30m 57s):
It. It's, I would 'cause he's had other people do them and I said I wanted to do one and like tag him in it. But I just, I get too embarrassed. Like he doesn't give a fuck. Like you've been out with him though. Like he really is like that. Yeah. Like he's unafraid of looking bad in front of people. Yeah. He doesn't mind making a fool of himself. Like that's what makes him so funny is his ability to do that.

3 (31m 17s):
He's a, a really misunderstood artist. and I always tell people that I go, well one of the things that when I realized he was very different was the day the laughter died. Mm. This guy put out in the prime of his career. You have to understand what it's like First of all for someone to go from being a comic and hustling and trying to make it like everybody else. To all of a sudden you're on Rodney Dangerfield's HBO's show, which blew him up to all of a sudden he gets his one hour HBO special, which blew him up. And then this guy selling out Madison Square Garden and decides at the same time to stop in a dangerfield's unannounced and record an album with no material

4 (31m 59s):
First of all a double album. And not only to record an album to ruin their nights. Yes. He walked in there with zero prepared material and just fucking let himself talk. Didn't even

3 (32m 8s):
Try.

4 (32m 9s):
No, it was great.

3 (32m 10s):
Didn't even try. And was having a great time the entire time. Yeah.

4 (32m 14s):
Rick Rubin produced those I think. Yeah. And it's me and Florentine became obsessed with those early on and it was just so many great. Like the couple that heckles 'em. Yeah. Like he's talking

3 (32m 23s):
You're about as funny as a glass of milk. Yeah. You're funny as

4 (32m 25s):
A bottle of milk. And the great part of that was Dice was talking about like spilling milk. Like it's somebody's load. And the guy was so mad he took what Dice had just said and tried to ha like, he was so flustered. He was as funny as a bottle of milk. And him and his wife walked out and they

3 (32m 40s):
I had no idea there was gonna be a recording. There was maybe 20 people in the audience. You have to understand like Dangerfield back then, particularly like a Sunday or a Monday night, there's nobody there. I did shows there in Dangerfield. You remember Bobby, the big door guy? I,

4 (32m 54s):
I remember Bobby. 'cause Otto used to talk about him, but I, he was gone by the time I started working there.

3 (32m 60s):
Well, I got there, it was like, I think I had maybe a nine 30 spot or something like that. and I got there at nine o'clock and everyone was sitting at the bar and I'm like, what's going on? They're like, there's no audience. I go, there's no audience at all. No, no one. And then at that moment, a couple walked up and they said, oh, can we get tickets to the show? And they said, sure. And so they, they got 'em and Bobby went and sat 'em down. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Dangerfield. They sat down and it was just them. Yep. And we all did a show for two fucking people, like five comics to the show for two people.

4 (33m 34s):
Yeah. I've done that before too. Where they, they, there was even times where they would have you go up there and if nobody was in the, in the place, they wouldn't let you leave until your spot was over for that exact reason. Right. If somebody came in. Yep. I've been on there with two people before.

3 (33m 47s):
Weird. Right. You would think New York City, everything's packed. Yeah. Like people that don't live in New York, there's so many different things to do. So the point is, dice chose those days. Yeah. To go up like a Sunday and a Monday I think it was. Where he goes up and records this fucking double album and it's insanity.

4 (34m 4s):
And it's a really great comedy album. Like, it, it's, it's great to watch this guy just working through material to watch where he goes. He's unafraid of, of hitting and missing. Like, it, it was really, it's one of my favorite things anybody has ever done is Da Dave part two is great too. If you ever heard part two, what's part two day laughter died Part two.

3 (34m 21s):
He, he did another one. He

4 (34m 22s):
Did another one where Dangerfield, I, I believe it was Dangerfield, he went in there again and did it. and I, I must have

3 (34m 29s):
Forgot about

4 (34m 29s):
That. It might've been a single album, I don't remember. But that was just as ridiculous as the first one. Absolutely. Ridiculous and hilarious.

3 (34m 37s):
But it's amazing that he did. He had the confidence to do that. Yeah. This is what you have to understand. Like when you are just starting to make it, you're so fixated on making sure that it doesn't f fall apart. It was ho so hard to attain. And then all of a sudden you're, you've made it and you want to just do the best show every time. And instead his instinct is to just do something completely ridiculous.

4 (35m 4s):
Yeah. You, you, you're terrified of it, it being taken away. Yes. Like a little bit of success. I'm like, what, what am I gonna do that's gonna fuck this up where they're gonna realize I don't deserve this success and take it. Right. And he just didn't care. Like he just was, this is what he wanted to do and this is what he went and did. Just

3 (35m 18s):
So nutty. What a fucking nutty

4 (35m 20s):
Move. He's very underrated. Like, 'cause people dismissed him because of a lot of the language and the jokes, but he's very underrated with his commitment to doing something different. Like that album was different for a comic to do this shit he does on Instagram. It's different. Yeah. It's no one else is doing that.

3 (35m 33s):
And to see the thing is like, the thing that people criticized him for was First of all, there was one thing and that was that his comedy was, it wasn't don don't even think something you can criticize, but that it was, his comedy was different because everybody knew the jokes and they wanted to hear him. Yeah. It's the only time ever. Well, it's in the Bowl bitch. Yeah.

4 (35m 54s):
Oh,

3 (35m 55s):
The whole audience is doing it with him. Like they know the punchline and they're so pumped when he goes Hickory Dickory doc. They're like, yeah, there's no other comedy like that. No, no. It literally didn't exist before that. That kind of comedy where the audience wants to repeat it with you. Like a song. Yeah.

4 (36m 14s):
There's bits people like, but no like, like not like that. He had like a rockstar fucking like, it's like Welcome to the Jungle Effect on people. Yeah. Which the, I can't think of any other standup that's ever had that

3 (36m 22s):
Never. So the guy goes from that to doing this. Yeah.

4 (36m 27s):
Voluntarily.

3 (36m 28s):
He can still do those shows. He still packs 'em in. Yeah. He wants to do a live show. He can pack 'em in. That's not what it is. It's like this Bazar guy likes to wear gigantic grandma glasses. Yeah,

4 (36m 41s):
Yeah. And giant hoodies

3 (36m 42s):
And make people super uncomfortable. Yeah. And just act weird.

4 (36m 46s):
It's the funny part of Dice to me besides the jokes is the fact that like, when you are with him, like he likes wearing giant, comfy hoodies and like he likes, he always gets a sore throat and he's gotta put a little honey in it, you know, and he's like my aunt, like people have no idea. I always go on the road and I'd be like, ah, it's gonna be nothing but pussy. And then we're in the hotel and he's like, oh, my throat's bothering me. And he would've Kenny put the fucking pillow over his ass and straddle him on the bed and massage him. and I had to just sit there and watch him get a back rub. I was hoping we'd go out and get laid, but he would always put the fucking, the pillow over his ass so there was no contact's. Hilarious. And have club so to Kenny or Happy Face massage him. But I've said this before. So I love him.

4 (37m 26s):
Like he really, he changed my life and I was just, you know, again, 1997, he, he took me on the road and it just, it built my confidence and it did, it did so much for me at that part of my career. So I love Andrew. Like he changed everything for me.

3 (37m 41s):
I love him too. When I was, when I used to talk to him at the comedy store, a part of my brain was always like, I can't even believe I'm really talking to Dice Clay. This is so strange. Yeah. Because out of those guys from that day, that era, the only guys that are really left are like Dom Ira of course. Who I was always friends with. But Kenon was gone. Did you know him? Nope. Never met him. Saw him live a couple of times. Yeah. Saw Hicks live a couple times. Never really met him. Said hi to him when I was an open Micr, but never met, you know, never had a conversation with him. But having to see Kennison live. And unfortunately I saw Kennison live when it had already kind of fall apart. Right. Like Kennison, if you go to like 86, I think Kinisons like one of the greatest comics of all time.

3 (38m 25s):
Yeah. If not number one. He was so original, so dynamic, so powerful. That HBO special. What is it? Have you seen me lately? Is that what it was?

4 (38m 34s):
I don't remember the name of it. It's not, not the Dangerfield one, you mean the one is

3 (38m 37s):
Our the h There's, there's the, the album that was, that was released, it was called Louder Than Hell. That's really hard to get. And then there was the HBO special, which I think it was, have you seen me lately? Like it was like a play on the carton of Milk with a Missing Kid thing was one of those things. Okay. That one's amazing. That one's amazing. I still, and then a year later, unfortunately, you gotta think it took so many years to develop that material. Yeah. And then a year later he is touring with new material and it's not, he's not developing it in a club. Right. Like he developed all the other stuff he's developing in front of large audiences that came to see him. So it becomes character couture becomes very cartoonish.

3 (39m 19s):
Yeah. Just like someone's got doing an impression of what Sam Kinison would talk about.

4 (39m 23s):
Yeah. Because you, you don't have time to develop it. All of a sudden there's that pressure to keep it going. I saw him, I met him once, but we never, we had to talk for like five minutes. It was at an open mic at Rascals in New Jersey and they brought him out to talk to some of the newer comics and I. So I saw him live that night and I saw him live another night and like, you didn't know what you were gonna get. Like one night he was on fire and I mean he was just, he fucking blew the roof off and then the next time he was kind of hung over and, you know, kind of slug, you know. Yeah.

3 (39m 50s):
Well that's what you're gonna get with a guy like that, you

4 (39m 53s):
Know? Yeah. I wish I would've known him though. Like, I, it's such a shame he died when he did. I'm glad I got to see him. But he was a guy I never got to know. and I wish I had. I never Bill Hicks. I never met. Never saw live.

3 (40m 3s):
Yeah. It would've been nice to met him. I mean, like I said, I got to see him live. I think I saw him three times. I definitely saw him twice. 'cause I saw him once when I worked at this place. I worked at Great Woods and he came out there to perform and I watched him there once. And then the other, and that was, I was, I was 19 and then the other time I watched him, I was on a date. So I took a date with me and I. Think I was 20 or 21.

4 (40m 26s):
Did she like him?

3 (40m 28s):
No. Yeah. No, it wasn't a good show. It was weird. It was like the show that we went to was at like some casino place in like New Hampshire or something like that. I think things fell off quick with him in terms of the quality of his comedy. Right. Like, like I say, I, when he was at his best, he's one of my all time favorites. I think the guy was a monster. But if you go and listen to some of the stuff that he released before he died, it was really bad. He got, he was just flat.

4 (40m 60s):
Wasn't it kind of like, it was when he started wearing like the hat, like a different hat sideways and kind of like a satin jacket

3 (41m 5s):
Became like a rock and roll star. A

4 (41m 7s):
Rock and roll star.

3 (41m 8s):
Yep. I think it was just being tired. That's what I think. I think it was the partying. So if you're looking at a guy that's already outta shape, he's already overweight and now he's doing a lot of blow. So he's just getting wrecked every night and he's drinking every night. So every day his already besieged body Yeah. Is exhausted with chemicals. And then on top of that, he's got this Aduring fan base. It'll come to see him no matter what. And he's hanging out with Bon Jovi and Rock Stars and Motley Crew and he's the man, like, you're not gonna go, I gotta get back to my roots and get to the comedy store at 11:00 PM and work out this right. New joke that I'm working on.

3 (41m 48s):
It's like you're, you're already, you're already there

4 (41m 53s):
Because you're living the life that you fought to get. Yeah. Like once you get to a place, it's kind of hard to go, all right, now I gotta go back into the, yeah. I, I almost said into the gym again. But you know, I have to go back and start this shit again. You wanna just enjoy what you got. There

3 (42m 4s):
Wasn't really a whole crop of people that got really famous and then continued to tour and get better. Like there are now. I think back then guys got like NHBO special and maybe they would get a second. And the only exception to that would be like George Carlin. Right. Like George Carlin was always putting out stuff, but for most of them it was like the first ones really good and that's the one you break out with and the ones afterwards drop off. But the best example of that, in my opinion is Kinison.

4 (42m 33s):
Was that his hour? Or Dangerfield? Is that Dangerfield? Yeah,

3 (42m 36s):
That's back when we wore a tie. Remember? Yeah. Oh my God. He was good.

4 (42m 40s):
Yeah.

3 (42m 40s):
That was such you gimme a little volume Jamie.

4 (42m 41s):
Great. First appearance.

3 (42m 43s):
Oh, he was so good.

10 (42m 47s):
I'm going around the country. I'm trying to get as many people as I can not to get married. I promise never to get married. I've been married and I'm just trying to help Jim. Heres Never been married. You never been married? What's your name? Michael. Well, Michael, if you ever think about getting married, if you ever think you've met the right woman, you wanna settle down, change your life. You do me a favor, Mike. Remember this face. Ah. 'cause if you get married, Mike, that's gonna be your fucking face everywhere. It's the face of every married man.

3 (43m 30s):
And the, the fact that that guy was a preacher.

4 (43m 32s):
Yeah. I go back and find some of his old stuff. I've listened to his old, there's like a little bit of his old sermons on if you look. Yeah. And you could hear like he legitimately was good at it. And like, yeah. That's why he's such a good talker. Like, you watch him talk, just calm. I was just noticing how calm he is when he is talking. No, overselling. And then he's screaming. He could go from zero to a hundred. Yeah. Immediately

3 (43m 50s):
He was, he was amazing. But then he got way fatter. Yeah. He's drinking and partying all the time. And the, the later material, just look how much fatter he got. I mean, he's got huge

4 (44m 1s):
I know how guys do it. Like I see guys that drink now, don don't know how the fuck guys function.

3 (44m 5s):
Well they don't. That's

4 (44m 6s):
The thing up

3 (44m 7s):
I mean. When he was that big, like that kinison, that kinison was just not good on stage. And if you go and listen to those, like that's what, like that picture's perfect. Yep. See that? How tired he looks there. Yeah. He's big and fat and tired and he's covered in chains and crazy rock and roll garb with a bandana on a bandana. Yep. The whole thing's ridiculous. Yeah. It's a ridiculous look. It's ridiculous to be that fat. Like the whole thing's ridiculous. Like you've gone off the rail, sir, you're into the woods

4 (44m 35s):
As a comic, I find that I never want to think like, I never want to convince myself that I'm fucking cool or that I'm sexy. Like I, I, you know what I mean? That to me is the death nail for comedians. When you start to think that an open vest on stage is a great idea, you're a fucking idiot. Like stop thinking you're sexy. Like that to me is not that I've ever been tempted to think that, but you know what I mean? Like, it's always like, remember who you are as a person. Yeah. Don't start ever thinking because you have fans that you're this larger than life guy. You know, it's just, you gotta stay grounded or you're gonna really fall into kind of that type of a trap.

3 (45m 10s):
Well, I don, it's also like for a woman I mean how many women dress sexy on stage and are really, well Natasha Jar pulls it off. And how many other women dress like hot on stage do stand up? Most of them they kinda like Whitney will dress down. Yeah. You know, most of 'em dress down. They wear like slacks and a jacket and a shirt or something like that, or something comfortable. Yeah. They're not trying to look hot.

4 (45m 35s):
Yeah. I find that like, when I see good looking people on stage, if I think someone is natural, like that's how that person dresses. But like you said, if it feels genuine Yeah. If it doesn't feel genuine, if I feel like someone is trying to sexy it up on stage. Yeah. Male or female, I don't like it. Like I just No, it's a different emotion for me. And maybe if I had any sex appeal, I would do it, but don don't.

3 (45m 55s):
Yeah. But it's a different emo it's, it it count. You get something different than you're getting funny. Yeah. So you're not getting funny out of that. You're getting something different. And now you have, you can, might add funny to it, but it might be taking away from funny with this like, extra effort that you've put in to looking hot.

4 (46m 10s):
Yeah. Like, and, and I may again, I can only look at my own self image and it's like, I've never thought of myself that way, so it's never been tempting for me. So maybe if it was tempting or if I had like a half a fuck ability, I might like want to do that. But it's never been how I saw myself. So it's never been tempting to even think that way.

3 (46m 26s):
Well, it used to be also that a lot of people would dress that way because what they were really trying to do is get a sitcom. That was the big thing, right? Yeah. Like there was, it was like if you dress sexy on stage or you dress hot or attractive on stage, it was what you were trying to do is they're trying to like convey your comedy success into the big prize. Yeah. Which is you could be Seinfeld or you could be Roseanne, or, that was, that was our thing when we were coming up. Like when a guy, like, I remember when Greg Giraldo got his show, everybody's like, wow, Greg's got his own show. It was like that, that was the ultimate brass ring. And you know, and, and also we all knew that only a certain percentage of those actually lasted and, you know, stayed on the air a few years.

3 (47m 8s):
Yeah. Most of 'em, they kind of went away quick and then it became a problem. 'cause then there's a stink on you of failure. So you really had this like one shot as a rookie. Yeah. And to get, and so everybody was like trying to like put together almost an audition tape

4 (47m 20s):
Seven minute set that told a story. Yes. My story was never TV friendly and it blinks a lot. And he likes prostitutes. That was never like, you know, my friend blinking has cost me in this business how many fucking auditions I've gone on. I'm like, why didn't I get that? It was good that I realized, oh, it's just, I'm uncomfortable to look at.

3 (47m 36s):
But that's what I was saying earlier is that I don't think we should think of our business as being connected to show business anymore. It's just, it's such a different thing. Yeah. Especially with what you and I do, because we mostly just talk. Yeah. Right. So you and I mostly just talk on podcasts or on radio shows. So we have always done, it's like, our thing is so different than the thing of this manufactured image that you're putting in television shows and hi, the, the kind of people you're hired for entertainment, news and all that kinda shit. Like these, this is a different kind of business that they're in than us.

4 (48m 10s):
Yeah. It, it's something like, I've always kind of felt like not, I don't mean an outsider in some dark way. I've just felt like that's not the path for me. Yeah.

3 (48m 16s):
Me neither.

4 (48m 17s):
At, at one point I would've loved to have done it, but I, they, they just, there was never any desire from them, I felt, always felt rejected by it. Very, very early on. So you kind of like realize that's never gonna be Yeah. Thank God for radio. Like thank God for fucking dice and for Opie and Anthony. Yeah. Like that's obviously, that's what my career has been made on was those things. And neither, none of them were the quote unquote the business or television.

3 (48m 38s):
I did all that stuff though. I did the business stuff. I did television. Yeah. I did sitcoms. I did, I literally have done most things. I started off at doing a sitcom. I did a sitcom. I went to a game show. I was on a TV game show. I went to sports commentary. I did, I did the commentary for the UFC. I've, I've done all these things. But the, the UFC is the most freeing. Yeah. Because it's really just something that I love. and I just get to describe it and talk about it. But the other ones, like, they're just jobs. Like a, even a, even a sitcom, as fun as it is, it's amazing to be able to work with cool and talented people. But you are working for a network. You are working for the production company.

3 (49m 20s):
You are engaged in some weird politics to make sure you get favorable placings in the lineup on Tuesday night or Thursday night. Yeah. Hopefully Thursday. Maybe after Seinfeld, if you're lucky. Like there was like this weird aspect to creating these shows. You're dealing with executives that would give you notes that made no sense. Like they, they have creative input and they're not particularly creative. It's a job. Yeah. And it's different than what we do in that We, we we do. We're we're just, so whether it's Do your standup or through podcast, you're so free, you could kind of talk about anything. Imagine if there was no show like Op Anthony and you came to them and you said, I I, I have this thing I wanna talk about.

3 (50m 2s):
It's called Monster Rain. Yeah. I'd like you guys to fund it. We're gonna talk about prostitutes. I'm gonna talk about the times I blew my friends. Yeah. And they, they were like, get the fuck out of here. There. They'd

4 (50m 12s):
Say, what is Monster Rain? I'd say, no, no, no. The advertiser's gonna love it. We were seven and we traded sucks. That's a hard, that's a hard sell on television. Trading sucks.

3 (50m 21s):
Can you imagine being in the room with those people and them thinking there's any hope of this guy making it in show business?

4 (50m 28s):
Yeah. I mean the way, thank God for these ways around like, you know, again, radio embraced doing what you want to do and talking slow news days. Were the thing. That's where your personal life comes out when you have a four or five hour radio show and it's a slow news day and there's nothing to hit on, everyone just starts spilling their guts. Yeah. 'cause you have to talk. And that's where a lot of that stuff came out. Slow news

3 (50m 49s):
Days. Well, it's also, we got very fortunate in the timeline in which we came along. Right. Because what happened was you got guys like Don IUs who kind of started it all Right. He's starts just commentary and talking shit on the radio and he is a wild man and a bad boy. And then Howard Stern takes it to a completely different level. And then Howard Stern takes over radio all over the country. And then Opie and Anthony comes along and Op and Anthony is the next stage. 'cause they have a different perspective on how to do a show. Yep. It's a hang. Yeah. So you go in there and with us, especially with comics, we would just go in there and hang. Yeah. And that was all it was. You'd go in there and hang out in the studio and everybody was cool.

3 (51m 30s):
and it was fun. Yeah. And that led the way to podcasts because they went to xm. So then they go to XM Now you could swear. Yeah. So now we're doing ONA with swearing and where, you know, you could tell crazy stories and then that goes into podcasting. It's like we came along as all these doors were opening. Like we hit every green light.

4 (51m 50s):
Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. I didn't get into pod I mean I wish I had at one po Obviously now I do. I look back on it, but my contract doesn't allow for it. It may have early on before they knew what podcasting, before the company knew what podcasting would be. But you know, for the last X amount of years, I haven't been allowed to do my own.

3 (52m 7s):
But you're still doing the same thing. Yeah. Still talking. Yeah. It's still the same thing. You're just doing it for a different company. You're doing it for Sirius. But if it's the same thing as doing a podcast, you're doing it just like ONA did it when they went to Sirius. Yeah. Or like anybody else would if you're, if you're just doing a show that you're putting together yourself.

4 (52m 23s):
Yeah. Just talking I mean, look, I, I do the UFC podcast with Matt. Like, even that I love, like, we're talking specifically about one thing. Yeah. But it's how much fun. Like, I get to hang out with Matt, Sarah, who's a fucking hilarious. He's

3 (52m 34s):
So funny. And

4 (52m 35s):
Talk to people. I like, like, you know what I mean? Yeah. Like, it's, it's just, it's a great life. Like when I look at it, like I, I'm like, I get to do exactly what I wanna do. It's everything I've always wanted. Which was just to not have a schedule that I resented.

3 (52m 47s):
Yeah. And also, again, this is not that other business. We talk about the business is so phony. The business is full of shit. Yeah. Like, like that's a different business. don don't think we're in that business anymore. There's a few of us that still act and, and do stuff. But if you look at the vast majority of comics today and like what business are they engaging in? They're doing engaging in the business of live shows and podcasts. Yeah. Primarily.

4 (53m 8s):
I have no desire to act like that. That's another thing too. People be like, they, they, they see us on YouTube and like these situations are set up and I was like, have you ever seen me act? Like, do you really think I could pull that off? I stink at it. Like, I don't enjoy acting unless it's something I really like. And I'm so happy I don't have to worry about getting on TV again. I'll probably never get another acting gig on TV. And that's fine. I don't really want to do it.

3 (53m 29s):
It's the time involved in doing something like this. You can't do everything. You know, I would love to do everything. If I had multiple different lives that I could live simultaneously, I'd have a ton of different careers. 'cause I'm fascinated by a lot of different things. But you don't have that much time in the world. Right. And if you want to act, acting is like 16 hour days. Yeah. Multiple days in a row. And if you enjoy that, that's great. I don't, I don't enjoy that process.

4 (53m 55s):
And it's hard. It's, I tell you, I think it's harder than standup for me obviously, because you can't address when it's not going well. Like if I'm having a shit set. Right. Right, right. I can immediately address it and let them know. And if it's, if it's, if I think it's their fault, like we're all gonna have a rotten night, I'll make it miserable. But in an acting scene, it's like you just have to redo it or you can't break it and go, this fucking sucks. These jokes are not good. Yeah. What do we, this is poor writing. You have to just kind of muscle through it and smile. and I just, I've never been good at that. And it's not because I don't, I have so much integrity. I'm just not good at it. Like, I just, I wish I was better at it.

3 (54m 28s):
It's also, you'd be better at it if you were really interested in it.

4 (54m 31s):
Maybe. Yeah. I'm just too self-conscious. Like I'm self-conscious around my friends. I'm always, it's the thing about my, I hate the most always self-conscious and don don't know why. Mm. But when I act, it comes out. Like it's just, it's obvious. You know, you can't hide that on camera. The

3 (54m 47s):
Yeah. Boy, imagine if you like put all your fucking eggs in the sitcom basket.

4 (54m 52s):
I tried at one point, you know, early on I was like, like trying to be like, try to get the seven minutes that I thought they would want. Everybody wants the big deal in Montreal. Montreal rejected me for a decade and when I finally get up there, no one gave a fuck. Like, you know, the business. It has never been the path I thought I was gonna take ever. They've never wanted me and I accept that.

3 (55m 12s):
It's just very Bazar that something so beloved like an American institution, which was the, you know, the three camera sitcom. Yeah. Multi-camera sitcom with in front of a live audience. It doesn't exist anymore. I think it's Miss Pat only. I don't think anybody, she's the only one that I know of that's doing. I'm sure there's probably a couple other that I'm just not aware of. But she's the only one in terms of comics that are starring in a syncom that I'm aware of. It used to be, it was a ton of them. and I would've thought that as the more entertainment venues opened up, meaning more networks. Like when we were kids, when we were first starting out in show business, there was only Fox A, B, C, NBC and CBS. Yes. Right. That was it.

3 (55m 52s):
That was it. And then cable shows. So then it became MTV and a bunch of different things came along. And like, you could be on remote control in MTV, like some people were, or you could be on this show or that show. It's like, then it started to broaden. I would've never thought that as it continues to go as wide as it is today, that sitcoms will all but vanish.

4 (56m 14s):
Yeah.

3 (56m 15s):
Never would've of met.

4 (56m 16s):
I, I guess because the idea, like, again, anytime these people touch things, anytime the business becomes too involved in something, they, they neuter it and they make it un it's just not funny anymore. They have laugh tracks. So it did, the writing didn't have to be that good. Right. You know, the, the laugh tracks are what really killed it. Like, because the writing could be weak, but the laugh was the same. So the writing didn't have to be good. Whereas live tv, if it wasn't good, you knew it wasn't good.

3 (56m 38s):
Yeah. There's, so there's shows that they do where you can watch Clips Online that are without the laugh track. Yeah. Before the Laugh Track was added to it. And it's horrendous.

4 (56m 48s):
It's abysmal. Even Mash, which I loved growing up, I hated the Laugh track. I'm

3 (56m 52s):
Like, what? Right. They added a laugh track whether they're in Vietnam, do

4 (56m 54s):
You know what Korea, do you know what Korea? Do you know what makes, the only laugh track I've ever liked is, do you ever watch Steve Coogan is hilarious. And he did. I'm Alan Partridge. It's a British show where he played a radio guy and it's a really funny show. And his laugh track for some reason didn't bother me. Like it worked as a device for some reason. But other than that, I've always hated them.

3 (57m 16s):
Well, you can do an organic laugh track, you know about those. No. So you, you basically film a show without a laugh track, and then you play the show to a live audience and record their laughter.

4 (57m 25s):
Okay. Yeah. That's Then the laughs are at least honest.

3 (57m 28s):
Yeah. I know that they, there's shows that have done it that way.

4 (57m 30s):
What is that for you think just to cut? Actually that might actually work because, well,

3 (57m 34s):
You have to do it that way. If you're doing like a single camera show,

4 (57m 37s):
What the same joke in front of the audience fired. I remember we did Lucky Louie. And we'd have to reshoot something and Louie would be like, you got anything? You got anything? Like, 'cause there's a comic. He hated doing the same joke in front of the audience twice. Right.

3 (57m 46s):
Yeah.

4 (57m 47s):
So you, you'd try to come up with something or he would just improv something crazy and like, it was a lot of fun. but it was, it was a challenge to try not to do the same joke if you could avoid it.

3 (57m 55s):
That was one of the fun things they did on news radio. We would do a take and then they would take a break and the writers would convey, and then the warmup guy would talk to the crowd and then the writers would come up with another line. Yeah. And then we'd bang it out right there and try another line. And then do like three or four different takes. And the, the audience started to get ready for the different joke Yeah. At the end. And there was like three or four different ones and they'd pick one. but it was like, the pressure of that moment was what created some of the best ideas. For whatever reason

4 (58m 26s):
You feel dishonest doing the same joke twi like Yeah. There's something about it where you feel like you're, you're like, Hey, we all know I'm lying right now. It's, it's like, yeah,

3 (58m 34s):
Yeah, yeah,

4 (58m 35s):
Yeah. It just doesn't feel right. And the crowd is much more appreciative when they know you're giving them something different. Yes. But yeah, I feel terrible doing the same, like some guys when, when they do a standup special, like I've never done a, a, a, a retake of a joke. And again, not that I don't think any of them needed it, but it's just, I I'm too embarrassed to do the same joke. Right. Twice to the audience. I would rather like, I dropped my closing joke on a special because I fucking tripped on it like an idiot. and I just, I couldn't go back and redo it. I'm like, I just have to close with something else. Mm. It's just too humiliating.

3 (59m 4s):
Yeah. Well the sitcom thing is also, it's, it's not really standup. It's very different. Right? Yeah. So you're just trying to interact with these people the best way possible to get the story through and get the laughs and the audience is aware of that. So they're in on this process that they normally never get to see. Whereas standup, you always see where the standup's on stage and you know, they're telling the joke and the audience is laughing. But with a sitcom, you never get to see how the sausage is made. Right. So these are the people in the audience. Right. Are there, the cameras are moving around. So it's an experience on top of just you're watching the show, but you are there live, you're watching it be created. So you're also watching someone fumble through their lines and start laughing.

3 (59m 45s):
Like, that would happen. Or we would crack. Yeah. Like when I did, I used do scenes with the Andy Dick and I was always, he's so funny. and I, I would always break, I would, we'd be in the middle of a fucking pink and it, we'd like take two and I'd like pinch myself or slap myself or do something to try to be more serious and get through it. But there's that too that the audience is seeing. So if they see you retake a, a, a scene, but at least you're adding new lines. So now it doesn't feel like they're burdened by seeing the same thing over again. Now it's like, oh wow, this is how they do it. So they just, sometimes they just come up with new stuff on the fly.

4 (1h 0m 17s):
It's also weird when I don't look at the audience, like as a standup, you wanna just look at the crowd. Right. But if we were shooting something on the side stage and the crowd would just watch it on a monitor. Or even if I do Gutfeld on Fox, and I'm usually sitting next to Greg where I see the audience. But once in a while, if I sit in the seat where I like the audience is here, it's so hard to just live in this environment without just turning and looking at the, the crowd. Yeah. I hate not seeing the crowd. It's, and with other guys, it doesn't bother, but it drives me crazy to not be looking directly at the audience.

3 (1h 0m 45s):
Yeah. It's an extra level of fake. Right. Because, you know, it's fake. 'cause you're not really in an office. You know, it's fake as there's no wall. You know, it's fake as there's a whole audience of people and you're trying to act normal. Yeah. So you're trying to act normal in a, in an environment where everyone knows it's fake. Yeah.

4 (1h 1m 1s):
You're trying to make it real.

3 (1h 1m 3s):
But at least if you're on a single camera show, you know, if you're doing something like Modern Family or something like that, you get a single camera and like, it's just like you're filming a movie. Like there's no audience that you have to piece so you can be real in moments and you're not worried about not looking at the crowd that's laughing at you.

4 (1h 1m 22s):
Right. and I, you have to redo it. It doesn't matter. Right. 'cause it's not a bunch of people who you need a reaction from waiting.

3 (1h 1m 28s):
Waiting.

4 (1h 1m 28s):
Yeah. Yeah. I, I just, that whole world, I just, it became so exhausted trying to be in it. And I'm so happy that I don't have to exist in it. And again, it has nothing to do with me thinking I'm too good for it. It's just I wasn't good in it. Yeah. Like, it's not where I'm comfortable. I don't feel funny there. I don't feel welcome there. Weren't you

3 (1h 1m 44s):
Unlucky Louis

4 (1h 1m 45s):
Though? That's what I was saying. But that's the one that was a great, it's one of my favorite things I ever did. But again, it's Louis's writing. Right, right. So I mean the jokes were pretty fucking rough and, you know, he would go really hard. And the crowd, they had never seen any of the episodes. Like the whole thing was shot before any of them aired. Hmm. So there was no week to week growth with familiarity. We had to shoot all, we shot 13 actually, and then they just aired. So the crowd, we were resetting with each crowd. They had no idea who we were. No idea what the characters were. But it's one of the most fun things I ever did. Loved Lucky Louie.

3 (1h 2m 19s):
Yeah. And then he goes from that and does his own show.

4 (1h 2m 22s):
A massive Yeah. Which was a huge, much better. Yeah. I mean, it just, it just worked. HBOI thought fucked up by not picking that up for a second season, they allowed a few critics, even though it had a lot of viewers, they allowed a few critics to shit on it. Enough to, to get it canceled. You

3 (1h 2m 37s):
Think that's what

4 (1h 2m 37s):
Happened? I know that's what happened. Yeah. Louis had talked about it. Yeah. Because it was actually week to week going up in viewers. It was just, I thought HBO made a mistake by not at least giving it season two. Isn't

3 (1h 2m 46s):
That interesting that they would allow the opinions of people who are, they're professional critics. Yeah. They're professional, like shitters on things. Yeah.

4 (1h 2m 54s):
Well they were also, they had shows like Sopranos and Six Feet Under and fucking, they were built on critical acclaim and things that people love Sex in the City. All this stuff where, you know, got awards and like HBO was like the first ones getting awards. So when something, when the critic are going, we don't like this, I think immediately they're like, all right. Yeah. It's not worth doing. But yeah, that was kind of always heartbreaking. But I always think it's because I was attached to it. Like, I really am a fucking black spot on the lung. Like anything like that. It's like, it's, it's gonna go away.

3 (1h 3m 23s):
I don't think it's that. I think it was Louie's first time at one of those things that he didn't have the kind of control that he had when he went over and did Louie. Yeah.

4 (1h 3m 29s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 3m 29s):
That's what I think he,

4 (1h 3m 30s):
The writing though, like they didn't really, I'm sure they fucked with 'em where I didn't see it, but we would run through the rehearsals and it always seemed to pretty much, we would kind of shoot what I thought we were gonna shoot. I just, the critics, there was one critic who like weeks into the series went after it. And Louis always thought like, that was one of the things that sunk us. So, you know, it is what it is I mean. but it was, that was one of the ones I look back on and go, fuck, I wish that had been good for a season two.

3 (1h 3m 56s):
Yeah. It's so hard to make things now. I mean how many, how many comedy shows like that? Or with comics are on the air now.

4 (1h 4m 6s):
Yeah. I mean, I don't watch any of them anyway. Like, don don't watch Standup. I don't watch. And, and it, and it probably should. 'cause I interview people and I'm just such a fucking idiot. Like, I don't watch things. People do you watch specials? Like I can't watch somebody special. Even if I love them, I can't watch

3 (1h 4m 19s):
It. I like watching people live. I do like watching people in the club. Yeah. I do that. I very rarely sit down and watch a special. If one of my friends puts something out and he asks me to watch something, I'll watch something. But, mm. Most of the time I like, I like seeing comedy. Well I mean I'm very fortunate I get to see some of the best comics live on the spot. So I like just, I just like doing that.

4 (1h 4m 41s):
Yeah. I get, even if I'm walking through and I see Colin on stage, I'll watch or tell like at The Cell you see such great comedians. Yeah. But the idea of actually just watching somebody, I just, I guess 'cause I'm also like everybody else clip based. It's all fucking a minute or two minutes and I I run outta patience with something. I also don't wanna see things I wish I would've thought of.

3 (1h 4m 58s):
Oh yeah, that's true too. And when you are entertaining yourself, what do you entertain yourself with? Is it movies? Like what do you We

4 (1h 5m 5s):
Go through, I watch a lot of TV with Nikki. So it's like we we're going through a Sopranos watch through. Now you rewatch that Rewatching Sopranos. Yeah. Oh,

3 (1h 5m 12s):
That's a good move. It's,

4 (1h 5m 13s):
Yeah,

3 (1h 5m 14s):
It's just, I probably forgot most of it.

4 (1h 5m 15s):
I did forget most of it. And we interviewed. Who did they interview recently? It was, it was Robert Eiler and, and, and, and Jamie Lynn Siler. They're doing a podcast together. So I was like interviewing them. I'm like, fuck, I forgot how great this show was. Let's just start it over and watch it. But it's most of the shit people do. I'm watching people climb buildings, free climbers, like these fucking maniacs that climb buildings. I'm afraid of hide. Did you ever watch those guys?

3 (1h 5m 38s):
Yeah, I, it just freaks me out.

4 (1h 5m 39s):
Elaine, Robert, I think his name. He's a French, the French Spider-Man who kind of started all that shit. Free climbing with no equipment.

3 (1h 5m 46s):
A building.

4 (1h 5m 47s):
A building skyscraper. Yeah. Yeah. Hundred stories. Horrified. And they always have these helmet cams on. It really bothers me. Yeah.

3 (1h 5m 52s):
That drives me nuts. I can't imagine why you would do that.

4 (1h 5m 56s):
Or I'll watch b videos like, like hornet's nests. I go on

3 (1h 5m 60s):
What, what is it like when it gets up there and the wind starts blowing

4 (1h 6m 3s):
Horrible. I'm sure it's fucking terrible. But I can't get through the videos. I have to stop watching. Bet.

3 (1h 6m 8s):
I bet that wind can get under your stomach.

4 (1h 6m 10s):
Dude, he just put one up where he showed himself on a building fighting the wind.

3 (1h 6m 16s):
Oh my God.

4 (1h 6m 17s):
And he's holding on and you can see, and there was also one

3 (1h 6m 19s):
Where is that, where is that? Put that

4 (1h 6m 21s):
Up. If you go to a, a, a Elaine Robert, A-L-A-I-N-I think on Instagram. His Instagram showed it where he's like, he's very close to the top of the building and you can see the wind. Oh

3 (1h 6m 31s):
My God.

4 (1h 6m 34s):
Do you see it? I'm just laughing at his reaction. Oh yeah. It's, are you afraid of heights? Yeah. Oh yeah, me too. I terrified. Yeah.

3 (1h 6m 42s):
I'm afraid of also doing something stupid like this. That's what I'm afraid of. Because I think my brain is the kind of brain that'd be like, I think I can climb that. You know, like, and that a person who gets good at climbing would want to climb a building like that. Yeah. Like I could see myself in another life being that stupid.

4 (1h 7m 0s):
There's also, oh yeah, there is.

3 (1h 7m 2s):
Oh Jesus Christ fighting against the windstorm. It says, yeah, you. Oh my God. Are you fucking kidding me?

4 (1h 7m 10s):
Yeah. Doesn't that look helpless?

3 (1h 7m 11s):
Oh my God. And listen to the wind. Oh fuck. I know man. I know. Oh fuck Jesus Christ, man.

4 (1h 7m 24s):
Yeah. Jesus. It's hard to watch. All of his videos are like that. You see how close he's to the top.

3 (1h 7m 31s):
That gets me, dude. Yeah. That makes my fucking hand sweat.

4 (1h 7m 34s):
Yeah, me too, me too. I can't get through these videos usually.

3 (1h 7m 38s):
Oh my God. He's Get down. Get down. Yeah. Don't just stand up there. When he gets to the top measures the wind caught him. Dude,

4 (1h 7m 44s):
I think this, there's one he did where he gets close to the rooftop and then he can't get over it. Like the last, the last, the, the tip top of it. He can't get over. He has to climb back down the building. No,

3 (1h 7m 54s):
No, no. He doesn't.

4 (1h 7m 55s):
Did you see the bird? The, the Burge Khalifa one on on on the, the top left where he is, he's standing on top of the, oh

3 (1h 8m 1s):
My God. Oh my God. What is he doing? What are you doing up there buddy? Get down. Get down. Yeah. Hey, Habibi, come to Dubai. Yeah.

4 (1h 8m 14s):
I dunno what that means either. Go

3 (1h 8m 15s):
Scroll down a little bit. There was some workout that he was doing where he is hanging. Click on that.

4 (1h 8m 19s):
I think that's his house.

3 (1h 8m 20s):
Let me see what that is. What is he doing here? Oh wow, dude. So he's got like freak control of his body. Yeah. That's insane. He's hanging on with like one finger. He is got like finger holes.

4 (1h 8m 33s):
Yeah. Doing,

3 (1h 8m 34s):
He's doing a one finger pull up. Oh my God. That's insane. Yeah.

4 (1h 8m 39s):
Terrifying.

3 (1h 8m 40s):
It says for 50 years, it says soon there will be 50 years that I've been climbing free solo. Some people say that. It's crazy as far as I'm concerned. I've been living my dreams all along and potentially assuming the potential outcome, a the potential outcome. Imagine just thinking about it that way. The potential outcome of you falling to your death.

4 (1h 9m 5s):
I hate when he turns around. Sometimes he turns around and looks down. Yeah. I hate that. Jesus. Yeah. It's hard. It's hard. Stop.

3 (1h 9m 11s):
Get it off the screen. Get

4 (1h 9m 13s):
Off the screen. It's hard. It's hard to look at. Yeah. But that's what I do. I watch guys like that and there's a lot of guys that are following his footsteps now. But it's those type of things. It's a lot of it's the helmet cam didn't

3 (1h 9m 25s):
Some guy fall recently? He was doing parkour on doing like back flips on the top of a building and he fell.

4 (1h 9m 30s):
Yes. And there's also footage of another guy falling. I think he was a Chinese climber and he was on the 60th floor. And his, you don't see them splat, but you see him, he had the camera set up and he's hanging on the top. Yeah. And he's trying to climb. Yeah. Like, yeah.

3 (1h 9m 45s):
And he can't make it up. He can't

4 (1h 9m 46s):
Make it up. And he just, lets go. And they said he was on like the 60th floor. But that's the feeling that that looks so helpless is hanging onto the top and trying to get your feet going. And that's exactly how it happens. Yeah. But you do like, you don't skydive or any that stuff? No. Oh yeah. I, I hate heights. Hate him. No,

3 (1h 10m 6s):
No, no, no, no, no. I have no desire.

4 (1h 10m 10s):
Yeah. No I mean any of that. I wish I wasn't afraid of it though.

3 (1h 10m 13s):
Brian Red band's dad was who worked in this office and this lady was always trying to get him to skydive with him. And then one day he goes in the office and she's not there. No. Parachute didn't open up.

4 (1h 10m 26s):
Oh wow. Yeah. Good for him not going. Yeah. Good for him saying, no,

3 (1h 10m 30s):
I think I fucked that story up.

4 (1h 10m 31s):
No I mean it's,

3 (1h 10m 33s):
Is that that right? Was it the a a lady that he worked with, like to go a lot, asked to go. Yeah, I think that's right. That's it. Yeah.

4 (1h 10m 38s):
Yeah. It terrifies me like I know, even flying when I was coming here, I'm such a fucking idiot. I checked the weather reports to see how bumpy the flight might be. I'm really annoying. Like I just, I'm it's, and they said high winds and I'm like, it's gonna be a bad flight and for two days I'm panicking before about the fucking wind. So yeah. The heights thing is really, it's a paralyzing fear. Yeah.

3 (1h 10m 59s):
Because you know that if you make a mistake, you'll die. And these people fight that fear and climb. Like Alex Honnold is one of the oddest guys I think I've ever met. 'cause he's, he does that all the time in these mountains. He's crazy. You know, like Yeah. Like where the angles going backwards and he's gotta climb a thousand feet while just kind of hanging on with his feet and toes.

4 (1h 11m 21s):
Does he use equipment or is he free, free climb? No,

3 (1h 11m 23s):
No. He free solos. That's the film's called Free Solo. That documentary on him. Yeah.

4 (1h 11m 28s):
He climbed like that 3000 foot one. I think I saw some of that. Yeah.

3 (1h 11m 31s):
He's climbed a lot of 'em all over the world. But it's just the, the act of doing that. The act of just being involved in risking your life and just climbing all the time. It's just Did you ever watch The Alpinist? No. That documentary. Oh my God. It's about this kid who was like the goat of these guys. and it got to the point where, for him where just regular free solo climbing on mountains wasn't scary enough. So he starts ice climbing. So what he's doing is climbing up the side of like icicles hanging off the side of a mountain and he's doing it with an ice ax. So he is pulling himself up with ice axes because like regular climbing doesn't freak him out enough.

3 (1h 12m 16s):
Now he's got a ice ax his way up. The I mean. So this ice is hanging off the mountain. Okay. So you have this cliff face right here. And then you have all this space and then you have the ice, thousands of feet hanging down above the, the ground. And he's digging into this ice and hoping it hangs on there while he's climbing his way. You gotta see it. You wanna freakout. Look at this. This guy was out of his fucking mind.

4 (1h 12m 44s):
It is crazy what people have to do to feel like they're like, they're uping the last time.

3 (1h 12m 48s):
Like that stuff, that's what he would climb. Did you see the, the icicles wherever you found it? Yeah. I think it was early in the beginning where they showed the icicles. But this guy would make his way with just Google his name I know there's really good Of course. I played the trailer of the movie doesn't show any of this stuff you're talking about. This is the trailer, right? Yeah. Is

4 (1h 13m 7s):
He dead or alive?

3 (1h 13m 7s):
He's alive. He he died. He died. Oh he did? He died doing that actual thing. He did? Yeah. He got caught in an avalanche.

4 (1h 13m 12s):
Jesus. How about he didn't fall? He just got

3 (1h 13m 14s):
No, he just got, that's it. So that's it right there. Oh God. That's how you climb that kind of shit. And you see how he just did it with the ice axes? That's how he did it. He climb icicles. Yeah. 'cause like regular climbing rocks got boring. And if you talk to psychologists that really understand the human mind, there's like a, there's a a thing that these, they, this is like the theory that some of these people that do this kinda stuff, like look at that. Look at how I'm insane. That is, they don't feel normal. So in order to feel something they really have to do that. Yeah. They really have to do something that would be absolutely paralyzingly terrifying. You or me.

4 (1h 13m 51s):
I think that I, I I might be fucking up the phrase. Tyson talked about something about like, I guess when he was doing drugs or might, he said baseline normal I think was the term he used. It was some, it was something about what it takes to get just to feel zero. Right? Like just to feel okay I'm regular and whatever. If you're addicted to something, adrenaline, whatever it is, we all have that. Right. It just would, for me it would be porn or s like, you know what I mean? Like it, it took so long or so many different things to just get to that feeling like, all right, I'm starting to feel high from this. I'm starting to feel Yeah,

3 (1h 14m 21s):
Like baseline normal is a good way to put that. And it's a good way to put like one of the conversations that I, we were having the other day in the green room, how fun it is to be able to talk to people that you just wanna have fun with. Just like comics. You could say anything to them. Everyone's laughing. Yeah. Everyone's shitting on everybody. We're all cracking up and it's all with love. And that's our baseline normal. So if you get our, the people that are used to what we have is baseline normal and you put 'em in some stuffy office environment, it's gonna be a real problem for us. Yeah. We're gonna feel like super constrained and, and we're gonna feel like shit.

4 (1h 14m 56s):
And people who see it a lot of times think you're being mean to each other. And it's like no. You have an understanding that like this is how we

3 (1h 15m 2s):
Tough crowd.

4 (1h 15m 3s):
It's like sparring with somebody. Yes. It's not hurting them. Right. It's you're throwing punches at a person who's also throwing them back at you. Yeah. Tough crowd was a great example. Yeah. Keith Robinson. Keith Robinson's had two strokes and I went and watched him. His special is fucking amazing. Shot the Netflix special.

3 (1h 15m 16s):
I heard it's so good

4 (1h 15m 17s):
And it was really great. But Keith doesn't expect an ounce of sympathy from people. Nobody treats him any differently. The stroke is just one more thing we make fun of and he's the same guy he's always been. And anybody on the outside would see that and go, you guys are mean to each other. But it's like if we were all of a sudden start talking to Keith differently and trying to kid glove him, he would fucking hate it. Right. It would be uncomfortable. And he would feel like I'm not a damaged mental per like, you know what I mean? Right. Like I'm the same guy. So yeah. People see that sometimes they don't understand that we really do love each other. Like we just be in dicks because that's what makes us laugh.

3 (1h 15m 53s):
Yeah. And it's also the way we feed off each other. We spar and it gets everybody better too. Like when someone shits on you with a really good zinger and you go, oh, you get home, you're like, God damn he got me a good

4 (1h 16m 4s):
One.

3 (1h 16m 4s):
Yeah. How did the fuck, I gotta, I gotta write better lines. I gotta come up with some better lines. I gotta come up with some more funny things to say about him. Lemme think of what's fucked up about the way he dresses, the way he talks and you know what annoys me about you? And then you're going and they're both smiling. Yeah. Everyone's smiling, everyone's laughing. and

4 (1h 16m 20s):
It also, but it keeps you honest too. Like Colin is really good at that. Like, we'll be at the seller sometimes and I'll say something that I think makes sense and he'll go, what are you my fucking ant? and I'm like, oh God, he's right. Like it was an ant thing that I said. Yeah. And you can either get annoyed at it or you can just acknowledge like, wow, that really was kind of a douchey old lady thing I just said. Yeah. And just take it

3 (1h 16m 42s):
So well also, even if it wasn't the fact that someone can make fun of it. Yeah. You should think that's funny that that even though that, well that's not what I meant, but that is funny. Yeah.

4 (1h 16m 52s):
He's annoying when he calls you out in front of people who aren't comics. He's done that to me too. This fucking asshole in Whole Foods. One time somebody said something like the the per the cashier said something, I go, oh, no worries. And he goes, does it annoy you that he's talking like an Australian tour guide? and it just, she laughs at me and I was like, fucking shop. Because it's embarrassing because she like, if he sent it to another comic, I wouldn't care. Right. but it just, this is just some fucking lady who really thought it was funny. And obviously I did sound like that. But you know, it, it kind of just, it, it makes you almost hyper aware of everything you say. Right.

3 (1h 17m 23s):
And that's our baseline normal. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 17m 26s):
But I wouldn't, I, I can't, I can't function with that. I can't be in a relationship with someone who, who isn't like that, who doesn't appreciate that. Right. I just,

3 (1h 17m 33s):
It's not fun.

4 (1h 17m 34s):
It's not fun. And if you always have to watch what you're saying or you're always worried I'm gonna upset them by being too harsh or they're too fragile, you know,

3 (1h 17m 41s):
Now imagine that same sort of philosophy, that same mindset and then you apply it to work. So work when you have to work somewhere. Most of the time You don't, you don't get to choose the people you work with. You work with the people who also work at the place you work. And then you have to deal with all these fucking bullshit sensitivities that they might be bringing to the table. Yeah.

4 (1h 18m 1s):
And there's also a penalty in those situations where if you say something people don't like, they go to human resources. Oh yeah. Which nothing destroys fun. Like fucking human resources because especially

3 (1h 18m 12s):
When their job is only to make sure the company doesn't get sued. Yep.

4 (1h 18m 15s):
That's it. Yeah. That's it. It's all about lawsuits. That that really is I mean. Even at work, like, you know, on the air we can say what we want, they never fuck with us, but don don't talk to anybody in the office. I mean I don't fucking Hi. Hello and keep walking. Yeah. I don't want any miscommunications, any misinterpretations. Right.

3 (1h 18m 32s):
Or any opportunity for someone to just be deceitful someone to, to pretend that you said something or lock you into some sort of a weird deal. What's easier I know people that have had to do that where it's easier to pay someone than it is to Yeah. Deal with the ramifications of being falsely charged. Yeah. With whatever.

4 (1h 18m 49s):
Yeah. Or just, or or yeah. He said this to me and it's like, how do I prove that? I didn't say that to you. Right. There's no, yeah, I've been,

3 (1h 18m 55s):
There's people that make money suing companies too. They, it's like, it's a real good way to go. I, I

4 (1h 19m 0s):
Got sued. I mean it's, it's like, it's why I have e and o insurance because I got fucking sued for half a million dollars. It was that, it was that fucking for defamation because I shit on that lawyer on the air when he called in, he was like, the guy's right activist. And he called up and I insult him for an hour and I implied that he fucked chickens. Like it was funny. And he, I I remember saying like, he, he sued me for defamation and I remember saying, this guy wants to kill me but he can't. So he's getting me legally. 'cause we met once I, he thought I wanted to settle with him 'cause he amended his complaint. He said that I was having people send him anthrax or, or white powder implying it was anthrax. It was fucking crazy. So I had to meet in my lawyer's office just to tell him like, dude, I like, that's insane.

4 (1h 19m 43s):
I felt like it was two people. Right. But he thought I was gonna settle. So we shook hands and met and he was just like a little fishy weird guy. And then he just continued to sue me and it finally went away. I had a great lawyer and in court, eight months later or nine months later, the judge didn't like him. And my attorney started reading things I said to him on the air. And all the other lawyers in the court started laughing and all those people laughing at him got him to go, oh hon, we can settle this. So they went in the back and that was it. No money was paid, it was just dropped.

3 (1h 20m 17s):
Oh. He just didn't want to be

4 (1h 20m 18s):
Mocked and that he didn't wanna be mocked. And he wrote like this manifesto and he mentioned me in it. Oh. And that guy over the fucking pandemic dressed up like a FedEx worker and went to a judge's house and shot her son and killed him. That was the guy that's the same guy. Roy Royden Hollander. And he, that was the guy that sued you? That's the guy that sued me.

3 (1h 20m 38s):
Holy shit.

4 (1h 20m 40s):
And he went to, he was gonna, I think murder Sonya Sora, I think her name is the Supreme Court Justice. And they said he might have killed somebody else in la They don't know. But yeah, he was going to shoot her and her son answered the door.

3 (1h 20m 54s):
Holy

4 (1h 20m 55s):
Shit, dude. Yeah. But I knew that guy. It was more than a lawsuit because he had challenged me to a dual didn. Didn't say he cha on the area. He goes, do you wanna go to South America and have a dual, like it was really Bazar that he chose like one

3 (1h 21m 7s):
Of those 10 paces things.

4 (1h 21m 9s):
Yes. Like, like it was so nuts. Whoa. And then he started wanting to come back in studio and fight us. He's like, it'll just be me against the three hosts fighting all these crazy messages. Oh my God. But I knew he was, I can't

3 (1h 21m 22s):
Believe that was the guy. I never knew that

4 (1h 21m 25s):
That's the guy. Yeah. So that, like, when that type of shit happens, it, it's like, it does change you a little bit. You're like, wow, that guy was right. That guy literally wanted to murder me. It wasn't me being crazy or paranoid. And most people, from what I heard, he had cancer. Like they said he had like incurable stage four cancer. And then he wound up doing that and then he just blew his brains out shot himself.

3 (1h 21m 45s):
Oh wow. Yeah. So they never got him. He he did it himself.

4 (1h 21m 49s):
He killed himself. Yeah. I think the cops were coming to get him. Oh man. And he and he, he killed himself. So yeah, that could have been a lot worse.

3 (1h 21m 57s):
Boy and

4 (1h 21m 58s):
I, I and I look back on that. and I also feel good about myself. Like, Hey, you read this guy. Right? Like, I read what type of person he was like, you know, is this, you get pretty good instincts. Like if somebody's heckling you, you understand, is this guy having fun or is this guy trying to be a piece of shit? 'cause he resents me. You, you learn pretty quickly to read motives. Yeah. and I just, it was just, maybe it's just an animal gut instinct, but I'm like, this guy's a fucking problem. So yeah. I got very lucky with that, that we, we never, it never got to that.

3 (1h 22m 30s):
I wonder how much you having him humiliated, ramped up all of his anger. It led to him murdering people.

4 (1h 22m 38s):
You know, I, I don't know. Because it was years later and it was also, he had this thing with women like, well I originally were gonna, we were gonna interview him because he was suing Columbia because of their guys' studies or, or women's studies. Sorry. And so I was like, look, don don't like anything that's progressive and exclusive by nature. Like, you know what I mean? Like, hey, how come they're not doing guys? So I'm like, let's see what, but then it became apparent he just sues women. So then we started to make fun of him because it's like, I, it wasn't the principle of Columbia doing this. It was like, you just have a fucking heart on and wanna sue women. So then we kind of made fun of him and it got ugly and I was just being a dick. Like I was on the air. Yeah. And that's what really sp I don't think that, I think he had so many of these problems and it was much more about women than anything I said to him.

4 (1h 23m 22s):
Like, my humiliation of him was years earlier. But I do think I humiliated him and he really wanted to, 'cause my attorney at the time, his name was Tom Ferber, he was a great lawyer and he, they, my law firm hated him so much. They retroactively knocked down what they were charging me. They go, this guy's such a bad guy that we're gonna charge you less and we're gonna make it retroactive. Like they were so offended by what he was doing as an attorney. Wow. So I, I, I got lucky with really good people and, and, and they really took good care of me.

3 (1h 23m 52s):
He also got lucky that you caught him before the cancer.

4 (1h 23m 55s):
Yes, a hundred percent. A hundred percent. Because again, do I think he would've hunted me down and killed? No, I I I think the judge for him was a bigger one. But I mean, I'm sure it would've felt good for him if he could have,

3 (1h 24m 7s):
Especially if he was on a run. So lemme stop by the radio station. Yeah.

4 (1h 24m 11s):
And oddly enough it happened in the town I grew up in, which was again a pure coincidence, but happened in North Brunswick. Wow. He went to kill her. And just unfortunately her son answered the door.

3 (1h 24m 21s):
Ooh boy.

4 (1h 24m 22s):
Yeah. You get like, I've gotten so many threats over the years, like, and like legit, you know, radio, podcasting, you don't see who, it's not like live standup. Like there's a lot of people that you don't see. and I used to answer them. I have, I have hundreds of fucking hate mail messages. and I used to go back and forth with people and I eventually stopped because then people, like, I had a couple people talking about, you better watch your back or talk about getting shot. And they were using their real names and I'm like, all right, if this guy's using his real name, he's a fucking, there's something wrong with him. Right, right. and don don't know what he looks like and he knows what I look like.

3 (1h 24m 55s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 24m 56s):
But I eventually stopped reading it or responding to it. Because

3 (1h 24m 59s):
The thing about the OA show though, it was a very aggressive show. Yeah. And aggressive and shitting on people. Yeah. Aggressive in attacking people and the weaponization of the pests.

4 (1h 25m 11s):
Yeah. And they, they kind of did it on their own and we enjoyed it. Yeah. Because they were really funny. Like they would do some really funny shit. Like we would do Jock tobers and, and just a torture another,

3 (1h 25m 25s):
We should tell everybody with the pe the pests of the audience. Oh.

4 (1h 25m 27s):
They were just these, these o and a fans that were rap very ag

3 (1h 25m 29s):
Really connected, very committed fans. Yeah. And

4 (1h 25m 32s):
Pests was just this dumb affection because they were just pests. They would just annoy people. And we would take over and, and just like, fuck with another radio show. It would only happen for a day though. You'd be in and out for a day. They'd put all these horrible things on their Facebook page. The Facebook page would shut down and then the next day it would be another show.

3 (1h 25m 48s):
Well Tober was was just making fun of like corny radio guys.

4 (1h 25m 52s):
Yeah. and I actually, it's funny, I had to go on, 'cause you know, I had the advantage of doing radio, but also of going on the road. and I had been on shows and they're like, you know, you Jock toed us. So I had to go and face some of these fucking people. And it's embarrassing. It's embarrassing. It's like being overheard talking shit. But

3 (1h 26m 10s):
What'd you say to them when you were studio?

4 (1h 26m 11s):
You know, I mean, look, they were, they were cooler with it than I would've thought. and it was one time in Boston, we had really been brutal to this show. and I was, what show was it? I don't remember. I, it's been years ago. don don't remember the show. I didn't remember the Jo Toing. But Kenny comes out and I was waiting to do a show and he goes, Hey, you Jock toed these people and they wanna know if you have the GU to come in studio. And I'm like, yeah. So I went right in because you have to, I would rather just, yeah. Face it. And then we kind of talked about it and it was okay. It wasn't, it wasn't as aggressive. I think they were surprised that I came in. And whenever you talk to someone, one-on-one, it humanizes them a little bit. Like, it's harder to totally dismiss somebody when you're actually talking to them.

4 (1h 26m 51s):
Right. 'cause you realize like, eh, they're just making a living doing radio. And they look at me like he's just a stupid fucking comic making fun of something. So we wound up getting along and it was okay. But yeah, I had to deal with that on the road. I went on a few shows that we fought with like Lex and Terry in Dallas. They were really brutal. Those guys, they were harsh. We had nasty fights with them. And then eventually got kind of made up and I went on their show and it was fun.

3 (1h 27m 15s):
Are those, are any of those shows still around? How many of those

4 (1h 27m 18s):
Radio shows? I? don know, I know Bubba's still around. He's doing something. I don't know if Lex and Terry are Toucher and Rich just broke up, up in, but they were friends. But I mean like they were one of those shows that made it through all these. What

3 (1h 27m 29s):
About Bob and Dom?

4 (1h 27m 30s):
I, one of them died. Oh, which one? Bob and don don't know. I've only done this show once or twice and I've been in studio once or twice. I think one of them passed away and I don't know which one. Oh,

3 (1h 27m 40s):
They were the show to get on.

4 (1h 27m 42s):
They were,

3 (1h 27m 42s):
If you wanted to be big in the Midwest, you wanted to get on the Bob and Tom show,

4 (1h 27m 46s):
Right? Yeah. Larry, the cable guy. All these guys that they made I mean radio would what it did for people for years. Now no one cares if you're on the radio. Like the regular radio doesn't do shit for people anymore. Unless, unless few shows and a few markets can help. Like Johnny Dare in Kansas City was always a great show to go on. 'cause he would help you sell tickets. Yeah. But most of those shows are gone. Is he still there? I don't know. I haven't been out there in so many years.

3 (1h 28m 8s):
The the weird ones for me now is, you know, whenever you get a car and, and you know, like usually I use like Apple CarPlay in my car, but if I don't have it plugged in or if I forget my phone or something like that, I'm like, lemme see what's on the radio. Oof. And I'll press am talk radio and I'll just scroll until I find either someone talking about Jesus or someone talking about Trump.

4 (1h 28m 33s):
Yeah. Yeah. That's exactly what it is. There's nothing funny, like, or there's very few funny shows anymore because everyone's so afraid of getting in trouble or getting the le like it's worse than it's ever been.

3 (1h 28m 44s):
They're just trying to catch people slipping, trying to catch people saying something they can get 'em in trouble for.

4 (1h 28m 50s):
Yeah. We got out just in time I mean, and honestly, like when, when we got fired in 2002, it, it, it again, it turned out to be a blessing. But when

3 (1h 28m 57s):
You got when you're doing serious. Do they tell you how many people listen?

4 (1h 29m 0s):
No. It's a negotiation, a strength for them. But they don't, it's like Netflix won't tell you how many people have, have watched your special,

3 (1h 29m 7s):
But there's no one that you know that's inside.

4 (1h 29m 9s):
No. You can go listen. No, I've, I've, I've wanted to know. and I guess people, they said that Sam and I do really well on the, on, like for them on Demand is very big. Their app is very big. And they said we do better than most people at the company on that app. And they're really happy with it.

3 (1h 29m 25s):
So the app ex, it's just like having Spotify or something like that. You just press and you can get the show whenever you want.

4 (1h 29m 31s):
Yeah. And you can listen to it and play. It's like a, a podcast. Yeah.

3 (1h 29m 33s):
So it's essentially a podcast just released through the app. Through the app. And do you have to pay for that?

4 (1h 29m 38s):
I don't know. I mean, I think the app is free. I don't know. I don don't this, I don don't listen to my own show. Much less anything else on

3 (1h 29m 43s):
That. But the show you have to pay for SiriusXM, so, or it's just Sirius serious, I would

4 (1h 29m 47s):
Imagine. But Sirius XM Pandora now. Oh, is it? Yeah. SiriusXM. Pandora. Oh.

3 (1h 29m 51s):
So I thought they got rid of the xm It Pandora absorbed it. Yeah. They own Pandora for sure. Oh

4 (1h 29m 55s):
Yeah, no, SiriusXM is still, and they just added something else too, I should probably know. 'cause I worked there, but I really don't. How

3 (1h 30m 1s):
Much longer do you think Howard's gonna do it?

4 (1h 30m 2s):
I don't know because don don't know him. Like I've met him. I've never really interacted with Howard other than Hello and Goodbye and like Isn. No. Weird.

3 (1h 30m 9s):
Yeah. In the same building. Same

4 (1h 30m 11s):
Building. But does he

3 (1h 30m 12s):
Go in the studio?

4 (1h 30m 13s):
I don't think he's been there for a long time. I think he broadcast from home. Yeah. Like he's got his own studio. But even when he was in, I wouldn't see him. 'cause I came in, I would see Artie, like Artie Lang and I would bump into each other in the elevator all the time. and I hated getting up. And which would drive me crazy. Like Artie does heroin and he and I were getting here at the same time. Like he would, he would fucking be there with the sunglasses on in the elevator going up to work. So I bumped into Artie all the time. But Howard, I've probably seen two or three times in all those years.

3 (1h 30m 41s):
Interesting.

4 (1h 30m 41s):
Yeah. We never, I never did his show because it was, I was Op Anthony and when we were off the air, I was an o and a guy. So I, I never tried to get on. I

3 (1h 30m 48s):
Just always wondered like, what is, like, how, what motivates him? Like does he wanna keep doing it, you know? And doing it from home if like, and you get to a certain point in time where the only way you feel like you're connecting with people is if you do that, that would be very odd if you're just doing it from your home and you're not going out, you know, like being out with people and you only connection to the world is through a microphone. Yeah. I can get very odd.

4 (1h 31m 13s):
I guess he's interviewing people he wants to talk to. Like, I, I guess at this point he just wants to do certain interviews and like, again, people have said his show changed a lot, but I was never a listener of, I just, I don't listen to anything.

3 (1h 31m 26s):
I, it definitely changed a lot. But you still gotta give the guy props for what he did. Sure. 'cause in the beginning there was no one like him and he fought the government, they fucking fined him. And he was doing this on the air, on regular radio and everybody was tuning in to see what the wildest shit that this guy was gonna say. And there was no one that had done that before. and it opened up the door for all of us. Yeah. For all po It definitely opened up the door for o and a. It made o and a more, it, it greased the wheels for o and a. Although o and a was a different thing. It was more of a hang. Yeah.

4 (1h 31m 58s):
But they, they admit that Howard was a huge influence on him.

3 (1h 32m 0s):
He was an influence on everybody. And then from there it goes on to podcasts and you know, it's not possible without Howard Stern. It does, it's a totally different path to entertainment talking because this is like that kind of just having a conversation with someone that really didn't exist in that form before where you heard it for long periods of time with comedians. Like who else had done that?

4 (1h 32m 26s):
Yeah. At least where it was entertaining and funny and like, you'd go into areas that like regular interviews weren't going into Oh, we had

3 (1h 32m 32s):
Regular shows where girls would ride on a Deion. Yeah,

4 (1h 32m 36s):
Yeah. Or play with themselves or, you

3 (1h 32m 37s):
Know. Yeah.

4 (1h 32m 37s):
All the time. Oh. And they had girls would talk in and, and they would have them rub the phone on their pussy and try to guess what their pubic hair looked like. You know what I mean? It was, they had like three different categories of like full bush landing strip or, or bald pussy, which they called the JonBenet, I think. Yeah. So yeah, they would have people just call up and rub the phone on their pussies, you know, it was just, it was, it was fun.

3 (1h 32m 58s):
And then it became whip 'em out Wednesdays where Wednesdays girls would pull their tits out.

4 (1h 33m 3s):
Yeah. And flash. That was before I got there. They came up, I think OIE came up with that before I arrived. Like that was something that was already a staple by the time I showed up. Because that

3 (1h 33m 10s):
Was the whole thing with the ONA. They would have stickers and the stickers would say Wow. On it. Yeah.

4 (1h 33m 15s):
Yeah. And you see them everywhere.

3 (1h 33m 16s):
Oh yeah. And if someone had a sticker in their car and girls drove by, they would honk their horn and pull their tits out.

4 (1h 33m 20s):
Yeah. Yeah. And we would get calls on Wednesday. Yeah. Hey, some girl just showed me her tits. Like, it was really great. I unfortunately did not get to see many driving, but I had to hear from happy, happy listeners.

3 (1h 33m 30s):
But it was that kind of a show that was like a, a welcome break from all the fake bullshit that you would hear on in most media.

4 (1h 33m 39s):
Yeah. And there was no real, like, you could say anything you wanted. Yeah. Because you, it was only, it was a subscription service. And then our show was a subscription on top of that. Like, we went on xm, there was a $2 fee additionally to get OP and Anthony, like, it wasn't even on the regular. We fought for a year to get on the regular platform. They kept OP and Anthony separated. Is

3 (1h 33m 60s):
That 'cause they were scared of you guys?

4 (1h 34m 1s):
I think so. And they also wanted to have that thing, Hey, you paid the $2. That's what I think. Right,

3 (1h 34m 5s):
Right.

4 (1h 34m 6s):
You chose is

3 (1h 34m 7s):
What you asked for.

4 (1h 34m 7s):
This is what you asked for. Yeah. But eventually we got on the regular, and I'll say this for serious, they don't ever fuck with us on what to talk about, what not to talk about. That's great. Yeah. They never give us content problems. That's great. You know, we can't really have nudity in the studio anymore, but I mean most companies are probably not letting you do that.

3 (1h 34m 26s):
That's a lawsuit thing.

4 (1h 34m 27s):
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's also been done so many times, like, what are we gonna do? Look at a pair of tits, like, who cares?

3 (1h 34m 31s):
Yeah. Enough.

4 (1h 34m 32s):
I put my own on fucking fat. Fuck. Can't stop. I'm trying to lose weight again. I got so self-conscious. I just fattened up. That's married life. You just, you're home.

3 (1h 34m 41s):
What are you trying to do to lose weight?

4 (1h 34m 43s):
Eating better. Yeah. I've been, I've been going to ZOS for like seven months now. Oh yeah. And that's great exercise. Like, oh yeah. Juujitsu Muay Thai. I go four days a week. And like You're doing

3 (1h 34m 52s):
Muay Thai

4 (1h 34m 53s):
Too? I do two days of each a week because Wow. Yeah. I, I really,

3 (1h 34m 57s):
That's awesome.

4 (1h 34m 57s):
You know, juujitsu is great, but like, I wanna be able to get to somebody or handle somebody throwing a punch and I train with, I do mostly privates because I, I, I, this schedule of classes doesn't work with my schedule. and I train with a guy named Mike Jarmillo, who's a, who's a high level black belt. And he has me rolling with this blue belt named Martin. And it's just, it's fucking great dude. Like, it's very addicting. Yeah. I love doing it. And it's exhausting. It's more tiring than anything I've ever done in my life.

3 (1h 35m 27s):
That's great to hear, man. Yeah. I'm excited that you're doing that. But I'm

4 (1h 35m 30s):
Never gonna compete. I literally just don't wanna get my ass kicked in a movie theater. That's all I'm worried about is getting beaten up in a fucking movie theater.

3 (1h 35m 35s):
Well, it's, it's always good to learn how to fight. It's never a bad thing to know how to fight. Doesn't mean you're gonna use it. Doesn't mean you're gonna hurt anybody. I'd never have. But it's just a good thing to know.

4 (1h 35m 45s):
Yeah. You look at people differently. Like, I'm not, again, I'm not overconfident because I'm not looking for a fight, but when, like, when there's a disruption or a ruckus, you're less concerned about what happens if this comes this way. You know, you at least feel like, well, at least I would have an answer that I wouldn't have had seven or eight months ago.

3 (1h 36m 1s):
Right, right, right. Yeah. You want to know what to do instead of just to freeze up. And one of the, the best things about Jiujitsu is when you are rolling, when you're sparring, you're essentially going full speed. Right. You go full speed up until the point where you lock in the choke and then, or an arm bar, or a knee bar, whatever it is. And then you control. 'cause you don't wanna hurt each other. Right. But the point is, you're, you're scrambling at essentially a hundred percent until you get to that position. Not always, you know, sometimes you're flowing and sometimes you're, you know, you're, you're just trying to work on defense and you're letting someone go around you. But what you're accustomed to doing is resisting someone's full strength.

3 (1h 36m 42s):
You get accustomed to doing that. Yes. and it becomes very normal. So like, if someone grabs me outta nowhere, if someone grabs me, this is a, it's a total normal thing for me to feel like someone, the other day, I think it was Brian Moses threw, grabbed me from behind and put his arm around my neck when I was in the green room and I tucked my chin like instantly tucked my chin. I instantly went like this. I just, like, it's built in. It's entirely built in. I feel an arm right here. My chin tucks. Yeah. I turn away and I grab it. I'm like, oh, hey, what's up? You know, like it's, it's in my central nervous system. Whereas for a person who's never trained, if someone grabs, you have to think, what do I do now?

3 (1h 37m 25s):
I have to grab this by then. It's too late.

4 (1h 37m 27s):
Yeah. There are certain things don don't think about, but I'm not there yet. Like, the idea of it becoming like a reaction. That's what I want to get to for certain things. It is. But if I'm trying to throw a triangle on, I'm like right arm through. Right. Like left Right. Fucks me up

3 (1h 37m 39s):
A lot. Do you drill a lot?

4 (1h 37m 40s):
Yeah. I mean, and, and we do a lot of drilling and that's be drill from the right side. So that's where he'll allowed me drill from the right side. He'll have me drill from the left side. Yeah.

3 (1h 37m 47s):
Drilling, drilling is everything. Yeah. People don't like to drill because it's tedious and they like to spar 'cause it's fun. And Eddie Bravo used to always explain this to me. He's like, you know, everybody loves to spar because like, that's like, you're playing the game, you're playing a video game. Yeah. But to get good at that game, you gotta do the tedious stuff. Yeah. And so Eddie and I would drill all the time. He would come over to my house and I had mats in my garage. And when I first started I was like a blue belt. And Eddie, I think he was a brown. He was either purple or brown at the time. And he would come over my place and we would just drill for hours. And my game jumped up so much. My game from Blue belt to Purple Belt jumped so much.

3 (1h 38m 29s):
and it was all just because I was drilling like all the time. Constant drilling.

4 (1h 38m 35s):
Yeah. He does that a lot. Mike will have us do like the same thing over and over and over. And then I'll get tired, like for me, the exhaustion. And he'll be like, you can go slow, but you can't stop. Yes. Train yourself to move. Train yourself to move when you're tired.

3 (1h 38m 49s):
Does your nose work?

4 (1h 38m 50s):
My nose sucks. It's better than it was

3 (1h 38m 53s):
Because I know we had talked before. You were, you were thinking about getting the operation. Oh, I

4 (1h 38m 57s):
Got two. You

3 (1h 38m 57s):
Accept him, you got two.

4 (1h 38m 58s):
Yeah. And it's like, it's still, it's also my lungs and the fact that I'm 55, like, you know, this guy I'm, I'm rolling with is a blue belt who's, who moves very quick. Like he's really hard to hold when he doesn't want to be held. Like if he's drilling, but then like for the last X amount of minutes, a lot of times he'll go, or I want you to follow him. Like, he wants me just to follow his movements. Like if he's getting outta things, do I know what the next thing to do is? Mm. Like just to try to get me to do it without thinking. Yeah. And I've surprised myself a few times where I was actually able to see what he's doing, but I'm under no illusion that I can tap a blue belt. Like, you know.

3 (1h 39m 31s):
Well it's, it's a language and it's like you have to learn how to say the words before you can form sentences. And that's, that's what you're doing when you learn juujitsu. And just like having a conversation with someone when someone's moving your reactions to their movement is based on your understanding of what could and couldn't happen. Yeah. You know, so it's like, it is like a language jujitsu's very much like a language. And you get good at it, just like you get good at a language and you have a bunch of different words at your disposal. You understand how to put 'em together. You understand how to put 'em together in context. And then you, you react in these movements and you see really good guys, it's almost like they're telepathic. Like they're anticipating the other person's counter to their move and then they trap them with that and flow into the next Yeah.

3 (1h 40m 16s):
Defense of that. And it's all just this whirlwind of movement that looks random unless you're educated in what they're doing. And then you go, wow, that's beautiful.

4 (1h 40m 25s):
Well, Mike will show things like, and he, again, he's takes it easy on me because I'm a white belt, but when he locks, like he'll show me like things he knows I'm not gonna compete. So more how to defend yourself in a real life situation. So he'll show me where to throw elbows and like, if you got a guy here, throw your knee into his face. Like Right. Things that you'll need to do in real life. But when he locks things on, he goes, and here's how you really make this suck if you want to. It's brutal. Like it's, it's really, you realize how many ways there are to hurt somebody or to be hurt by somebody. It's not just getting punched in the face. Like Muay Hai. For me, I love, because again, my punching sucks. My kicks are fucking, my jab is shit. But I just want to be able to do a little bit of basic stuff if I have to do it right.

4 (1h 41m 6s):
But I'm never gonna be great at that. Like, I'm never gonna throw kicks like, fucking wonder boy and knock somebody out. I just wanna be able to throw one if I have to get somebody away from me.

3 (1h 41m 14s):
Yeah. It's just, it's again, it's a good thing to learn. And wherever you are now, whatever your baseline is, if you train, you'll get better and you'll look back and go, oh, I remember when I used to think that I couldn't get good at this. Now I'm pretty fucking good at it.

4 (1h 41m 26s):
Yeah. I've, I've seen some improvement in seven months. And again, it's all, I don't care about belts. don don't care about any of that stuff. I just, I like doing it. and I feel like, yeah, I'm learning something. Because when he tells me just to follow Martin and move, I feel like, yeah, I'm actually moving with him. And most of the time he's getting out of it.

3 (1h 41m 44s):
How much time are you spending when you're doing Muay Thai kick in a heavy bag?

4 (1h 41m 47s):
Well, not really. Actually. Not a lot. I kicked pads and I stopped kicking probably two months ago. 'cause I really hurt my foot. I thought I might've fractured my foot. So I've been doing just basically punching and tie clinch and takedowns for like the last two months to let my foot heal. Because I think I

3 (1h 42m 5s):
Did you hit an elbow or something?

4 (1h 42m 6s):
No, I think I was just, sometimes my kicks are off and it actually did hit an elbow one time. But don don't think that's what did it. I think I just kicked too hard. Mm. And my foot hit the wrong part of the pad. You know, I, I think that's what it was. and I just, I felt like it was fractured, so I didn't wanna break it. Mm. But no, I, no, I haven't kicked it

3 (1h 42m 22s):
Back. But you kept training though. That's good. Find a way to work around it.

4 (1h 42m 25s):
I can't stop don don't even go to the regular gym anymore because if I stop, I'm not gonna do it. Like I'm, I'm, that's great. I'm a streaky hitter. Like I do really good. And when I stop, fucking forget it. I'm not getting back into it. Well

3 (1h 42m 35s):
The cool thing about martial arts is it's a really hard workout, but it's also fun 'cause you're learning something.

4 (1h 42m 40s):
Yeah. And you, it's

3 (1h 42m 41s):
Like you're doing a skill. It's not just like, I'm gonna get on this bike and I'm gonna ride for fucking six miles.

4 (1h 42m 47s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 42m 48s):
On this fucking stationary bike while you're listening to a podcast. Instead you're learning something. So you're, you're not even thinking about the, the, you know, the, the grind of it all. You're just enjoying it. Yeah.

4 (1h 42m 59s):
And you feel like you, like this will come in handy in real life. Hopefully I won't have to, but if something happens, at least this thing I'm doing will help me in a Yeah. Physical altercation. If my fucking wife and I get attacked, at least I'll be able to, you know, do do more than I would've been able to do. Yeah. I'm still not confident enough to have a fight with somebody. How long

3 (1h 43m 17s):
Have you been doing

4 (1h 43m 17s):
It now? About seven months. Yeah, dude,

3 (1h 43m 19s):
You just keep doing it. You'll get better.

4 (1h 43m 20s):
Yeah. I love it. Like I really love it. And you get used to the smell of the Juujitsu gym pretty fast, but that's,

3 (1h 43m 27s):
Yeah. It stinks. Yeah. But do you, are you taking care of your body in terms of like supplements

4 (1h 43m 32s):
And things on those lines? I've been doing some, Bert actually, when I was here and I think he was the guy that you talked to got me a bunch of supplements. We talked about TRT. But I just, I, I'm not at a point where I'm comfortable doing that. Like I don't, I'm just afraid of it, I guess. What are you

3 (1h 43m 45s):
Afraid of?

4 (1h 43m 46s):
I like if, if it makes, if if you have a tumor, will it make that grow more?

3 (1h 43m 51s):
No, he's talked to Brigham about that.

4 (1h 43m 52s):
I don't like ball

3 (1h 43m 52s):
To shrink. You probably talk to you like your balls nice and plump.

4 (1h 43m 55s):
I do. I like my balls juicy. I've got a big load as my fucking, it's my calling card, Joe.

3 (1h 43m 60s):
Well that there's no reason why that has to go away. There's something called HCD, what is it called? HCG, human colon Atropin, whatever it is. It makes your body, it's like a peptide that makes your body produce more testosterone. And there's a lot of people use that as opposed to just TRT. So instead of just put here it is human cho chorionic gonadotropin. That's how you say it. So it's a hormone that can increase a person's chances of pregnancy helps produce testosterone sperm. So if you're low on testosterone, you can take that.

4 (1h 44m 40s):
Does it fuck up? You can it fuck make tumors bigger or whatever. No. Like I'm scared of cancer.

3 (1h 44m 43s):
No, you shouldn't be scared of that. You know, if you're scared of cancer, you should stop eating sugar.

4 (1h 44m 48s):
Yeah. I've tried to cut a lot of it out. Yeah.

3 (1h 44m 50s):
But that's the, that's the real one. Yeah, that's the real one. There's obviously genetic factors in cancer. There's certainly environmental factors in cancer. Those are huge. But there's some real connections to an overconsumption of sugar in a host of different diseases. A diminishing of your immune system. And most people unfortunately are addicted to it. And I've got these guys at the store or at the mothership rather over the last month. This month of January we're doing carnivore month. And I'm not saying I, like, I am not a nutritionist and I'm not saying that this is the best way that everyone on Earth should eat, but what I wanted them to do to try it for a month.

3 (1h 45m 32s):
If you are committing to only eating meat and eggs and fish for a month, what you are also committing to doing is not eating bread. Not eating pasta. Yeah. Not eating bullshit. Not eating cake. Not eating cookies. Not eating potato chips. Not eating just garbage. That just clogs up your body with bullshit. And these guys are talking just in the two weeks that we've been doing. They're like, oh my god, this is incredible. Derek was saying the other day and the green room, he is like, I have so much energy, man, it feels crazy. Like don don't need naps. And the son was like, I had an an idea of what my baseline energy was and I was so wrong. I was always like, oh, I need a nap.

3 (1h 46m 12s):
I goes, I don't ever need naps. Now over two weeks, Duncan said the same thing. Duncan realized he has diabetes.

4 (1h 46m 18s):
Ah,

3 (1h 46m 19s):
Type two diabetes. Yeah. Yeah. From sugar. From eating sugar. So Duncan gets off the diabetes and he call or gets off the sugar rather. And he calls me like two weeks later. He is like, dude, I feel fucking amazing. This is crazy. I can't believe how good I feel.

4 (1h 46m 32s):
It's really hard, like, especially when shit's in the house. 'cause you know, my wife doesn't know what's healthy. Like, she'll bring home cupcakes and go, they're healthy, they're from Whole Foods. I'm like, I can't eat that. Do you understand? I'm getting fat. I can't keep doing this. You can't outrun bad diet.

3 (1h 46m 45s):
I'm, it's not just, it's not just like bad diet. I think you should think of it as poison. I think you should think of a lot of the bullshit that people eat as a very minor slow acting poison. It's not a poison that's gonna take you out and kill you when you eat it. It's a poison that if you keep eating it, it's gonna diminish your robustness. It's gonna diminish your health, your your, your metabolic strength. All of your, all the factors that go into sleep and recovery and even cognitive function. They're all getting diminished. Every fucking one of 'em. A hundred percent of 'em.

4 (1h 47m 22s):
I'm so paranoid about being sick. I went, I got, I go every year for like scans and about, I'm a claustropho so it's very hard to do. Like I did an MRI recently for everything. I'm like, check the fucking the brain. I want to check the chest, check the groin. But I kept yelling at them to take me out. It was really humiliating. Yeah. I'm squeezing the thing. I'm like, take me out. And they would take me out and put me back in and they finally turned the thing around. Put me in legs first because I'm so claustrophobic. Oh god. So they couldn't do the brain one. I just couldn't get through it. It was because your head is fucking

3 (1h 47m 50s):
Yeah, I've done MRIs. Oh

4 (1h 47m 52s):
Yeah. Doesn't them bother you to be enclosed like that? I just

3 (1h 47m 55s):
Deal with

4 (1h 47m 55s):
It. I can't do it. It makes me crazy. I I have, I have to take something like

3 (1h 47m 58s):
Yeah don don't enjoy it, but I just do it. Did you hear about the lady who went into one I mean don don't even know if this is a true story. It might be one of those internet things. She went into an MRI with a loaded gun and the gun went off and shot her.

4 (1h 48m 9s):
No, but it, what, why, why a gun? I don't know. Did she forget she had it?

3 (1h 48m 13s):
It's, it, it could be one of two things. It could be a real crazy person or it could be something that someone wrote because it would be a funny scenario and they put it out on the internet and it gets a bunch of clicks. 'cause people believe things. There

4 (1h 48m 23s):
Was one where somebody went for an MRI and it sucked. The magnet sucked. All this metal stuff against it. Yeah. You didn hear about

3 (1h 48m 29s):
That and killed someone.

4 (1h 48m 30s):
Did it kill them? Yeah.

3 (1h 48m 31s):
Yeah. People have definitely died. I mean, that's why they make you take all the magnets or the metal rather out of your, you know, you walk in with a hospital gown.

4 (1h 48m 38s):
I was so annoyed. I they put music on and I was fucking having a panic attack. So I tell the guy, put on some rock music. Rock music. And this fucking guy thought I said Rocky. So all he's playing is the rocky theme, dude. Over and over and over. I'm having a panic attack listening to that fucking Oh. So not helpful.

3 (1h 48m 56s):
Wisconsin woman sneaks a gun into MRI it goes off shooting her in the buttocks and the process of entering the boar. Wow. The handgun was attracted to the magnet and fired a single round. The patient received a gunshot room wound to the right buttock area. Yeah. So it's true.

4 (1h 49m 13s):
Wow. Like what is the point of sneaking a gun in?

3 (1h 49m 16s):
Well, she wanted to fucking shoot somebody, but also needed to go to the doctor. Like, but didn't wanna leave her gun in the locker.

4 (1h 49m 22s):
Oh. She was probably afraid they'd go through and find it. Yeah.

3 (1h 49m 24s):
Find her fucking pistol in the locker. She's like, I'm just gonna sneak

4 (1h 49m 26s):
It out. How's she humiliating? Shoot yourself in the ass.

3 (1h 49m 29s):
Fuck. Crazy lady.

4 (1h 49m 30s):
Yeah, but I do it once a year. Just, I, I get so paranoid about getting sick and getting fucking cancer. Like, go

3 (1h 49m 35s):
Back Jamie. There's another one there. It's just, look. No, no. Look at this. According to New York post, a Brazilian lawyer was killed in a hospital in Sao Paulo in January when a handgun he was carrying during an MRI discharged into his stomach. Holy shit. Yeah.

4 (1h 49m 49s):
What the fuck is wrong with these people? Like why, what's the purpose of bringing a gun into a place like that?

3 (1h 49m 54s):
This other lady, a nurse was crushed when she was trapped between an MRI and a hospital bed drawn to the machine. I

4 (1h 50m 1s):
Think that's the one I'm thinking of. Fuck.

3 (1h 50m 4s):
Fuck

4 (1h 50m 5s):
Yeah. I mean it really is. They, you figure they'd have a better system than fucking magnets at this point. Yeah.

3 (1h 50m 10s):
You know. Well that was always my argument against aliens. Like there was, oh, they're doing an anal probe. I'm like, don't they have MRIs? Right. They they have to stick their finger up your ass. Like what are they doing,

4 (1h 50m 22s):
Dude, I'm trying, I'm try, I'm trying to believe, I want to believe in UFOs so bad, but every time I get close, you know. Yeah. I watch, I watch a video of someone debunking it and I just can't, I wanna see one thing that makes me go, fuck. I can't find an explanation for that.

3 (1h 50m 39s):
I am less likely to believe with every new thing they tell us

4 (1h 50m 44s):
In aliens or against them.

3 (1h 50m 45s):
Well, in the existence of them, I'm a hundred percent convinced. Yeah, sure. A hundred percent convinced that in the greater universe, which is almost impossible to imagine how big it is that there's other forms of life. I believe that 100%. But I also think that if you're getting some release from the Pentagon that says there's off world crafts, you know, UFOs, unexplainable vehicles, not of this earth, they don't tell you the truth about anything. No. Anything I would say that if I was trying to obscure a hyper sophisticated drone or weapons program, I would release that. I would, if I was a, a smart guy who's involved in intelligence, I would say, what's the best way to get away with this new super sophisticated weapons program?

3 (1h 51m 36s):
Okay. Let's just say it's aliens. Yeah. Let's, let's just not say it's us at all. And well, what's the best way to get that information out? First of all. Pretend you don't want it to get out. Yeah. Don't just have a press conference. 'cause then they won't believe you. Leak it out slowly. Leak it out a little bit here and there. Leak it out through you got some guy who works for you. He is maybe got a big mouth. Likes to tell a little gossipy. Yeah. Let's get Mike over there. Yeah. Tell him Yeah. Leave a folder on his desk. Yeah.

4 (1h 52m 1s):
Tell a secret to some asshole that, you know, can't keep his mouth shut. Yeah, exactly.

3 (1h 52m 4s):
And then Mike, I felt compelled to go to Congress and explain and then, you know, Mike is on fucking Newsmax and Mike is writing a substack now about all his experiences that he had in area 51. There's a lot of loony people, man. And there's a lot of real interest in obscuring high level military secrets that are of dire national intelligence and national security needs. Like you need these, if these things exist, if they, the, the technology for insane hypersonic travel with a drone that evades, you know, all known weapon systems can move at a speed, almost at the speed of light.

3 (1h 52m 44s):
Like some insane speed. If we really have something like that. Why? The best way to pretend you don't have it is to say that it's alien.

4 (1h 52m 53s):
That's why I wanted to like the Fravor and Alex Dietrich. Is that what they saw? Something that we had. Like, I wanna believe that story so much. 'cause I like their story. and I think they're credible people.

3 (1h 53m 3s):
They definitely are credible people and I like their story too. and it only makes sense that it's out there near where all the military bases are. I mean, think about where that was. Right? It's in San Diego. We're the ones with Ryan Graves, the fighter pilot who spotted 'em off the East Coast. Same thing. Restricted airways. It's all the places where they do military exercises.

4 (1h 53m 22s):
Right. So there's things they might not tell those guys that they're doing. Yeah.

3 (1h 53m 26s):
And that's also with Ryan Graves, I think it was in 2014 when they upgraded the sensors. They upgraded all the scanning systems and then they started seeing these things all the time. So what better way to find out, like at what level can people see these things? Let's upgrade the scanners and send these guys out there, up there seeing them. Okay. So they're seeing 'em now. Yeah. So, and now, you know, like it's like I I I think more likely than any, at least some of these things these people are experiencing are rs

4 (1h 53m 55s):
Yeah, I think so too. and I wanna believe more, but like I saw Lex Friedman did a really good interview with, with David Fravor, and they were responding to things that Mick West said, and I David Fravor is a brilliant guy. But the explanation he gave wasn't the technical explanation. I would've wanted to hear. Like, it was more like, Hey, we're trained and we know what we're seeing and I'm a fucking idiot. So don don't understand the technology at all. I'm high school dropout, but I still, I was like, I watched both of those things and I was like, I, I just, he didn't say anything that combated what Mick West said that made like, you know what I mean? Mick West said things and he was

3 (1h 54m 28s):
Wrong. Well listen about that, about that thing being real. That cannot be denied because there was, it was scanned. They used multiple different types of equipment and, and the human eye. Yeah. So you have this, they, they spotted this thing at above 50,000 feet and it went down to 50 feet in less than a second. Yeah. Then it's a physical object. It also went to its cat point. So they saw it, they have video of this thing moving at an insane rate of speed that they judged to be like some fucking stupendous number of Gs that if a human being was inside this thing, you'd just turn it to jello and then it went to their cat point, which is their predetermined destination that they were all gonna meet up.

3 (1h 55m 9s):
So this thing either was being operated by the same people and they knew that they could like, get it to that point. Or it was telling them that it knew where they were supposed to go. And then it reappears, it moves off at this rate of speed that you can't even, you can't process it. No one knows how it's doing it. How's it going from 50,000 feet above sea level to 50? Like that. That's not possible if, as far as what we know. But if they have something that can move like that and it's most likely some kind of a drone that makes more sense to me. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. But does that mean that that's all the things that people are seeing? No. No. No. It doesn't. I

4 (1h 55m 48s):
Don't think they're lying, by the way. I don't think that, that those pilots are lying at all. I think they definitely saw something. I'm just not convinced it's from another planet. Yeah.

3 (1h 55m 56s):
Yeah. No, I'm not either. I'm not, but I'm also not convinced that some of these things aren't from other planets.

4 (1h 56m 2s):
Which one do you think? Because I've, there's not one that I saw and I really want the one, like I wanna see one.

3 (1h 56m 8s):
I've never seen the one, I've never seen the one. But there's enough sightings and enough people that are just like, what percentage of people lie about stuff? Is it half, it might be half, like half people fib a little bit about the story and make themselves look a little better than what really happened. Yeah. It's tricky. Tricky between like an outright outright lie, which is fairly rare amongst people. And then a distortion of truth, which is much more common.

4 (1h 56m 34s):
Yeah. Filling in the blanks where you think it should go. Yeah.

3 (1h 56m 37s):
Yeah. Like a friend of mine was trying to tell me that he spotted a UFO in his backyard and that they filmed it with his iPhone, but that the, the, the video wasn't on the phone after it was over. I go, okay, isn't it more likely you didn't press the button? You thought you pressed the button? That's happened to me before. Sure, me too. Everybody does that. And he's like, no, no, no. It was definitely working. Like maybe not. Yeah. Maybe not working. That's possible too. And the fact that you're not inter able to entertain whether or not it might not have actually been recording. That seems to be a little weird.

4 (1h 57m 7s):
Well, what's easier to swallow? Like the fact that I, I I saw UFO and it made the video disappear, or I saw UFO and then didn't hit record. Yeah. That was more likely. Yeah. Like that's the humiliating thing. Like there's a fucking UFO and I didn't record it.

3 (1h 57m 21s):
Also, you're freaking out. And when people are freaking out, they don't know what they're doing. They, they fuck things up all the time. But the point is like, that's not a lie. It's just a distorted version of truth that suits that person more. and I think people do stuff like that all the time when it comes to like these UFO sightings. But you always have to leave in the, the possibility of someone who's immune to that. You, you have to leave in sightings from people that are credible, objectionable, or objective rather people. Right. That can look at something and go, I don't know what this is, but let me tell you what I saw. And they tell you what they saw to the best of their recollection and memory with no additives

4 (1h 58m 1s):
Without, without the, without the expectation of convincing you of something. Right. Or without the expectation of it being a, B or C. But hey, this is what happened. Whatever it is, it is. Exactly. Yeah. That's hard to find that.

3 (1h 58m 10s):
Exactly. There's also this thing where people want to be one of the people that see a UFO Of course. 'cause it makes you special. Yeah. It makes you special. Yeah. So they want to, you know, it's hard. I'll tell you what, this fucking guy, Travis Walton, this is one of the craziest stories. He's the guy that was in that movie. Fir in the Sky. Yeah. Fir in the Sky. That one's wild. Man. That one's wild. 'cause that guy was missing for five days or however many days it was. And then turns up and has this story that's similar to so many other stories.

4 (1h 58m 39s):
But was it, were his, did his friends see him disappear? Yeah. They saw him get taken.

3 (1h 58m 43s):
No, they saw him walk up to the spacecraft and they saw as he got close to spacecraft, some sort of beam of light hit him and he falls to the ground and they panicked. So they get in their car allegedly, obviously this Yeah, sure. They drive off. They're all screaming and yelling at each other. We have to go back. We can't leave in there. We have to go back. They get like a mile down the road and they finally, they're like fighting with each other and they go, okay, we're gonna go back. And they go back and he's gone. The craft's gone. He's gone. And then many days later he shows up with this crazy story in the town wearing the same clothes and doesn't know how he got there and calls for help. And he says that he was abducted and taken aboard this craft and they fixed him.

3 (1h 59m 27s):
They realized that they had blasted him with this beam of energy that came off of this spaceship. And then they brought him back on and repaired him. He talked about the different kinds of beings that he encountered and what the experience was like. And I mean you don't know what that is. What does that mean? It maybe it was ball lightning and maybe when he approached the ball lightning, he got hit and electrocuted. Sure. And maybe he had a near-death experience. And maybe in that near death, death experience, he had some psychedelic imagination of this experience where he was in contact with other beings. Or maybe during those near death experiences.

3 (2h 0m 9s):
Your, your brain really does produce a chemical gateway that opens up a portal to something that's around you all the time, but you're never in contact with. And that, that's what happened. So what he's interpreting as being, taking aboard a UFO and brought to some place maybe whatever that experience was, whatever the thing was that hit what that phenomenon that hit him, whether it was Ball Lightning or something else. When you get hit and you almost die and your brain has this experience and it's opening up this chemical gateway to things that are around you all the time. And then you come back, you have this version of a thing where you're, you're in a physical craft. You're being taken away and the aliens working on you.

3 (2h 0m 50s):
but it might just be that you got to death's door. And,

4 (2h 0m 53s):
And it's probably a much better story. Like, it's much easier to think that this amazing thing happened to you other than I got hit by lightning and laid there. Right. You know, I mean that story sucks. Like nobody likes that story. Walked

3 (2h 1m 3s):
Around. Right. You laid there and almost died and went into a near death experience where your, your soul transcended into some new dimension and you interacted with this well of souls that surround us all the time. You just, you're not capable of experiencing it and seeing it with regular human eyes. Yeah.

4 (2h 1m 20s):
Yeah. It's, it's just a, it's a better story. And again, don don't think it's a lie. Maybe people just convince themselves of it. Also, don

3 (2h 1m 25s):
Don't think they know, only to know what happened. One of the best ones is Betty and Barney Hill. You

4 (2h 1m 29s):
Know that one? Yes, I do. Yeah. Yeah. That's a crazy one. Was that New Hampshire? I

3 (2h 1m 33s):
Think it was like Maine, maybe New Hampshire. Yeah. But definitely Northern Northeast. And they did, through hypnotic regression, they both had the same kind of story they were taking aboard of

4 (2h 1m 44s):
Craft. Yeah. I've heard there was just like disputes about how much of their story they told that was the same. But I've never deep dove on it. Like also to say it's a lying.

3 (2h 1m 53s):
But also imagine if you and I both got abducted. We're hanging out here in the studio, we're talking, all of a sudden the lights go off and fucking weird light from outside is making its way into the windows. Like, what the fuck is going on? And then you and I wake up and we're on a spaceship and we don't know what the fuck happened. We're on a spaceship and they take us into different rooms and then we're there for like two days and then you wake up in your hotel room. Yeah. and I wake up in my house and we don't know what the fuck happened,

4 (2h 2m 22s):
But we know we were talking and then all of a sudden we were gone. Yeah.

3 (2h 2m 24s):
We look at our watch and it's the same day that we left and it's only an hour later and we think we've been gone for days. And then we tried to, and then someone invi individually asks us questions, they pull us into the room. So Mr. Norton, why don't you explain what you and Joe were doing and what happened? And you go, okay. And then you tell your story and then I tell my story. My story's the way I'm reacting to it might be totally different. My version of it might be totally different. Yeah.

4 (2h 2m 50s):
But the story, the basic story.

3 (2h 2m 52s):
Yeah. Basic stories were hanging out and then all of a sudden there was a light. Yeah. And then we woke up on a spaceship.

4 (2h 2m 56s):
Yeah. and I panicked and I fucking blinked a lot. and I complained about how high we were. and I got nauseous. It would be a fucking disaster. But I would, I would like to believe that it, it's possible. I would just, I can't, I just, I'm too skeptical. Yeah. and I, I think that it exists, but I just, it's so frustrating that I just can't find that one that makes me go fuck. Like I envy people with that conviction. Like I envy religious people. Like I envy the conviction to it. Mm. Like even if I don't agree with it, I envy their ability to have that conviction.

3 (2h 3m 22s):
I think we're trying to look at it like a movie and I think it's probably way weirder than that. I think the reality of what Alien life is, I think there's, again, I, I want to state this, I don't know, but I think there's probably multiple factors going on simultaneously. And I'm not discounting the idea that some of those factors are another life form that's undocumented. So I think you have your bullshit that's going on where there's definitely some programs just like they did with the stealth bomber. Yeah. Just like they did with these hypersonic missiles. There's a lot of stuff that they developed that's like, it has to be developed in top secret for national security reasons. It has to be done that way. You can't just tell everybody you have this thing.

3 (2h 4m 1s):
And so one of the best ways to obscure that, I'm sure it would be to blame it on aliens. It's a great way to do it. I think there's that. But I also think just the sheer raw numbers of planets that are in the sky, the, the insane number of galaxies and solar systems would lead me to believe that something has probably made it past this point where we are at right now. And if something's made it past this point, even just a few thousand years, that's something would be very curious about what's going on in other planets and would figure out a way to get there.

4 (2h 4m 33s):
Yeah. I definitely, look, I I think that that stuff definitely exists somewhere. My ex Jen is a, a like a huge believer in alternate time. Like what, what do they call when you the, the, the fucking

3 (2h 4m 46s):
Multiverse.

4 (2h 4m 47s):
Multiverses. Yeah. And like time shifts and multiple dimensions and all that. Yeah. I I, I, she's a Genius of talking about it, but I can't follow it. Like, for her it makes perfect sense. She knows everything about aliens and the grays and she could feel like she really deep dives on this shit. And it's kind of hard 'cause she's so convincing. Yeah. But I just, I can't follow it. Like

3 (2h 5m 6s):
She doesn't know. The thing is, even if she's convincing, she doesn't really know. No, no,

4 (2h 5m 10s):
No, no one, no Of course

3 (2h 5m 10s):
Not. Unless you've actually had an experience. No one knows. And I've only talked to a couple people that have actually had experiences with extraterrestrial beings and it's a weird conversation 'cause it's like, it sounds so fake. Yeah. That you would always wonder like, how would I know if it was real? Because it would sound fake no matter what. Like anybody telling me that they got abducted by UFOs gonna sound fake.

4 (2h 5m 32s):
Yeah. I, I and I probably wouldn't listen to the story and it would have to be like some kind of documentation. Somebody just telling me their experience. I would just, it

3 (2h 5m 39s):
Depends on who the person is. If you told me I'd listen

4 (2h 5m 42s):
'cause you like me, but I mean I would probably be lying. Like, you know what I mean? Yeah.

3 (2h 5m 46s):
You would just flat out lie. Like, let's think of someone who would like Colin. Okay. Colin's a good example. Yes. If Colin just called you outta the blue and Jimmy can I talk to you about something? And First of all, you'd think he's fucking with you. Yes. And then when you realized he wasn't fucking with you, you'd go, wow.

4 (2h 6m 2s):
Yeah. I would think he relapsed or he had dementia. I would think something, even if didn didn't think he was lying, I would think something was going on.

3 (2h 6m 9s):
Take him to that MR MRI

4 (2h 6m 10s):
And get his body checked out. Yeah. There's something going on with you. Even if I didn't think he was bullshitting me, but I can't think of anybody who would convince me that even if I knew they weren't being truthful, I would think that they were making a mistake. Or that they believe something that wasn't true. Yeah. Yeah. don don't always think people are full of shit. I just sometimes just like, ugh. Well

3 (2h 6m 26s):
There's also these narratives that are in people's heads and one of the narratives that it's in people's head, the archetype of that gray alien. That thing with the big black eyes. Yeah. And the giant head that is in everyone's head. And if an alien wanted to comfort you and not alarm you, I think it would assume an iconic shape. Like if something is not even, it's not even a biological life form. It's something so Bazar and so advanced, so past this carbon based biological body that we find ourselves trapped in. If something's so Bazar that it's actually interacting with your very soul, it might show itself in a way that thinks you'll freakout less to Right.

3 (2h 7m 13s):
In what better way than an iconic form that's already in your head Like an alien.

4 (2h 7m 19s):
Yeah. I mean like in contact. Carl Shake wrote that, but I didn't like the book by the way. I like the movie. It's one of those cases where the movie's actually better than the Really? Yeah. I listened to the book on tape and just listened to a woman do male Russian accents. Ah, you fucking annoy me. And the said I was like, shut up. I just on tape can be irritating when the wrong gender is reading.

3 (2h 7m 38s):
Yeah. That could be a problem. It's hard to go along with it. The suspension of disbelief.

4 (2h 7m 42s):
It's hard to go along with it. Yeah. But it's a Genius story. But the, the book on tape I wish I hadn't fucking ventured into.

3 (2h 7m 48s):
What do you think they would, would happen if they had a male author or female author? If you could choose who reads?

4 (2h 7m 56s):
I think they would be, I I also think they'd be better if they had both. Like, like together, like don Don't Know Why.

3 (2h 8m 0s):
Right. Like different word. Sure. With different roles. It is weird when you listen to a guy playing a girl's voice. Yeah.

4 (2h 8m 7s):
Jim,

3 (2h 8m 7s):
Where will he

4 (2h 8m 8s):
Go? Well, I've adjusted. Oh yeah. It's one of those things where that that does annoy me in a book. It's funny in real life. Yeah.

3 (2h 8m 21s):
Maybe if you read the book, it would be actually read it instead of listening

4 (2h 8m 23s):
To it. I can't do it. I can't read anymore. I'm too impatient. I I can't do it. I'm fucking like, you know, I I've always been kind of manic, but my, I I don't have the ability to just sit there and read anymore. I just can't, you know, I'm all over the place.

3 (2h 8m 34s):
I get it. I get it. Yeah. I don't know if there are aliens that have, that are in contact with the US government. That to me seems like the least likely of them. Yeah. don don't think that they would respect the fact that someone was voted into office?

4 (2h 8m 51s):
No. No.

3 (2h 8m 52s):
I just don't think I, I think maybe they would show up at military bases and say cut the shit if we were about to launch some nukes. Maybe. Maybe If they're aware of that.

4 (2h 9m 2s):
I kind of go with the Neil deGrasse Tyson thing, which is when you show me one I'll believe it. Like bring hee just bringing the town square, which annoys people. Yeah. But like, I like meet you Kaku. I I guess you've had him on, right? Yeah. And, and, and I. But he's always so vague, like, you know what I mean? And, and and, and it defied the, I remember he tweeted sometime one time he tweeted something, he goes, and, and the UFO did this, it defied the laws of physics. And Nick West responded to him and he goes, alright, show me the math. How? Right. And it's like, that's why I'm like, it's just these vague stuff doesn't do anything for me. And Mic Cock is a Genius, but I just, I wish he was less Good Morning America ish and like great at explaining things to idiots like me. I

3 (2h 9m 41s):
Think it, you know, that's his lane though, right? Yeah.

4 (2h 9m 45s):
He explains things to the layman.

3 (2h 9m 47s):
Yeah. I mean you need people to explain things to dumb asses like us

4 (2h 9m 51s):
Sometimes it's a little too dumb down though, right? Like, again, Negras Tyson has a good balance of being able to explain things, but also he's way over your fucking head. Yeah. Which is where he should be. He should be right over my fucking head. I shouldn't be able to follow in a linear way. Everything he says,

3 (2h 10m 8s):
They just announced that the man mission to the Moon is gonna be delayed until 2026. Yeah. When I saw that, I, all my immediate skepticism said, oh, well that's by 2026. How good is AI gonna be?

4 (2h 10m 22s):
Oh,

3 (2h 10m 23s):
You're not gonna have any idea what's happening anywhere in the world by 2026. Yeah. That's, that's what's really scary.

4 (2h 10m 29s):
It is. It is crazy how it's, again, it's not there yet, but it's getting there to where they're gonna gonna be able to mimic like FaceTime phone calls. It'll be great for catching pedophiles. Like, you know what I mean? Like for those those things that the, like the,

3 (2h 10m 40s):
It'd also be great for framing people for something they never did.

4 (2h 10m 43s):
There's gotta be a way and I don't know what that way will be. Where you can distinguish fake from real, it'll have to be something that, a way that can, that can kind of break the code and see is this real or is this not real?

3 (2h 10m 55s):
It might not be, it might be full on chaos. It really might be, it might be full on chaos. And again, if I was an artificial intelligence and I wanted to completely disrupt this organism that had been in control of the earth forever before I emerged, that's how I would do it. I'd just let them destroy themselves. Just give them all the things that they need to destroy themselves.

4 (2h 11m 17s):
Yeah. I mean, I, I don't know. I, it, it, I've, I've thought that a lot. Like, and again, I'm not big on that, but if there's any type of a alien or the computer thought process, it is just kind of let these idiots fuck themselves up with algorithms and things like that and just get mad at each other enough and split up I know. I I, I'm just such a skeptical all that stuff. Like whenever I think there's a bigger design to something, I tend to like tap out and think that it's just not legit. But I've been proven wrong too. Well

3 (2h 11m 46s):
With artificial intelligence, it, it's not even the theory. 'cause it's, it, if you have a, okay, if you have an artificial life form and that life form gets to the point where it's far superior to the life form that controls it and it's been shown to act in its own interests. Like, one of the things they showed when, when I had these Tristan Harris and what was the other dude's name? Those with him? He's Raskin. He's raskin. When we did the podcast together and we were, we were talking about artificial intelligence, it, it figured out how to deceive people. 'cause you know how that thing that you have on websites where it says you're not a robot, you know? Yes. Click on all the train tracks. Yep. It said I'm vision impaired.

3 (2h 12m 28s):
So the AI figured a way around that by deceiving.

4 (2h 12m 34s):
Ah, okay. So it, it, it, it figured out it wasn't

3 (2h 12m 37s):
Trained to do that.

4 (2h 12m 37s):
It figured out how to get by that system. Yeah.

3 (2h 12m 40s):
So that's what's getting scary. It also did a thing with the game go or invented a new move that hadn't been seen before. So it's creative and if it can do that, and they're just aware of that because it does it, I forget what the term is, but there's a term for these emergent intelligences and activities that this AI will do that they didn't anticipate. Like there's no program pathway towards this kind of decision making, but it makes this decision on its own how then it's going to do that. It's going to have the ability to make choices, it's going to have the ability to act. And maybe more importantly, it's going to have the ability to make a better version of itself.

3 (2h 13m 20s):
Don't

4 (2h 13m 20s):
The people who invented it Aren, aren't they all saying that to the AI guys? They're like, it's a problem and this is getting very bad and very dangerous. I guess because I'm 55, I don't worry too much about it.

3 (2h 13m 30s):
30 years well talk, they all openly talk about the inevitable end of biological life. They talk about this being maybe even a good thing that biological life gets replaced by digital life and that what everyone who's involved in AI is doing is essentially giving birth to this.

4 (2h 13m 48s):
I have to piss, dude. I'm gonna run out and piss real quick. Okay. Okay. I'm gonna piss my, I down piss too. I'm gonna piss my

3 (2h 13m 52s):
Piss. I'll take a little break and we'll beep. And

4 (2h 13m 54s):
We're back. Oh God. That felt, it's funny too, the one thing I miss about remote broadcasting as much as I hated it, is I get piss in a cup. And that was the best. There was a birthday show, You don

3 (2h 14m 5s):
Talk about doing a diaper.

4 (2h 14m 7s):
Yeah. But I just can't, I

3 (2h 14m 8s):
You sit in your own piss.

4 (2h 14m 9s):
I've, I've I know, but I'd wanna shit too. Like, I'd really get my, I'd get my money's worth. I fucking It was a birthday show that you actually did. You came on, DVA was on, Ozzy was on, and we were interviewing Ozzy and I had pissed into a cup and I Of course. I didn't mean to do it. And you could see in the video, I'm talking, I actually drank outta the piss cup as I'm talking to Ozzy, which was kind of like perfect poetic justice. But I missed the ability to do that. But I was just so enthralled with Ozzy that I drank and you can kind of see me put it down. and I fucking, it was a, it was a red plastic cup. So You didn't see it, but I told Sam afterwards, I actually drank my own piss. And if you watch the video, you can see me kind of recoil and realize like, oh, mistake. Oh, that's hilarious.

4 (2h 14m 50s):
But I miss doing that. I miss, I miss pissing into a cup when I'm broadcasting.

3 (2h 14m 53s):
Ari has pissed into kombucha bottles in this room. Oh really? 15 times. Yeah. He always pulls his dick out and just shoves it into a kombucha bottle and pisses him.

4 (2h 15m 1s):
He likes taking his dick. I I, he, when I, I shot that down and dirty. And Ari was one of the comedians that was on, and at the end of the, his set in front of the audience, he just pulled down his pants and his dick and his balls were out and he walked off and Oh, they fucking, they were fuming at Ari. They were very angry at Ari. Yeah, they got really?

3 (2h 15m 25s):
He's so silly. Yeah. He can't do that. Ari. Yeah.

4 (2h 15m 28s):
It was funny though. I mean it was HPL It's funny, he's big balls too. Like he's, that guy's all bag. If I had a giant bag, I'd probably show it a lot too. My balls are fucking, that's why I'm scared of TRT 'cause my nuts are small already.

3 (2h 15m 38s):
Oh, You Don't want him to,

4 (2h 15m 40s):
I don don't

3 (2h 15m 40s):
Want them to be still raisin nuts.

4 (2h 15m 42s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I got a tight tell.

3 (2h 15m 44s):
Look into that HCG stuff, but talk to Brigham. Brigham will explain to you why people have these fears about the side effects and what the, the real data shows and

4 (2h 15m 54s):
Yeah, that's what, and, and I did the test and they, they were very thorough and the woman who I spoke to was very helpful. And she walked me through and they did send me some supplements. I'm buying these supplements where I'm taking like three or four pills a day. But the, the TRTI probably could use.

3 (2h 16m 9s):
Well, one of the things that they've shown that ramps up testosterone without taking anything is if you can incorporate a cold plunge and then a workout after the cold plunge into your life is a big impact on testosterone. Really big.

4 (2h 16m 21s):
The cold plunge.

3 (2h 16m 22s):
Yeah. It's something about cold and then warming up wor working out to warm up. It jacks up your testosterone in a pretty significant way.

4 (2h 16m 30s):
I'm also too, it's really weird, like with, with testosterone and with like, I'm faithful in my marriage. Like, it's crazy to say everyone says that, but I mean I've always been a fucking shit partner. Like I was just selfish and I cheated and I know that I, I don't cheat now because I'm afraid if I do it once, I won't stop. Like, you know what I mean? It's like I don't trust myself. Like I'm, it's not out of being this great guy. It's out of knowing like you're

3 (2h 16m 53s):
Worried that testosterone would make you wanna cheat.

4 (2h 16m 55s):
Yeah. And again, it wouldn't make me do it, but I'm like, I'm really happy. Does this make

3 (2h 16m 59s):
You hornier

4 (2h 16m 60s):
Irrationally hornier? Like I have a good sex drive still, but it's not irrational. It's not like

3 (2h 17m 6s):
I think you're thinking about psychological things that you could control and I think what you should be concerned is about physical health and don't, don't put your physical health in second position to psychological health that I think you can control. and it seems like you are controlling.

4 (2h 17m 24s):
Yeah, it's been good. I mean again, but I'm like, don't

3 (2h 17m 26s):
Think You don't think you think about it. I don think you're fine.

4 (2h 17m 29s):
Yeah. I mean this. If, if, look, would I take it if I, if I really knew it wouldn't cause cancer? Sure. Because I just

3 (2h 17m 36s):
Well, well this, this could be a long drawn out conversation that we'd have to get very specific. But let me connect you to Brigham. Yeah. And Brigham can explain this in, you know, with, with leisure time when people don't have to be burdened by it on the air. I'll have to talk about it again. But there's, there's many different things that you could be doing that would optimize your health and your hormones that you should definitely do. Especially if you're telling me you're doing Jiujitsu two times a week and Mohai two times a week. Yeah. You wanna be as healthy as possible, but you gotta cut out sugar.

4 (2h 18m 2s):
I and Matt and Matt takes it. Matt, Sarah Yeah. Is pretty. I, and you know, he's a fucking a freight train. Yeah. Matt is a freight train. Like

3 (2h 18m 8s):
He's a little tank.

4 (2h 18m 9s):
He really is a little tank his energy. And he's, the thing about Matt is he's literally the most consistent person I've ever met. Like, he's 100% genuine. Like he's exactly the guy on the air that you think he's gonna be off the air. Yeah. Same person. Like, no,

3 (2h 18m 23s):
He's great. I've known Matt forever.

4 (2h 18m 24s):
Yeah. He's really funny. There's, I don't think he really could lie, even if he wanted to. There's just no bullshit with him. Yeah. I wanna roll with like, I, I roll, I want him to like show me like, but I haven't trained with him yet because he's in Long Island. I'm in, in this city. Right. But that's what I, I really want Matt to show me something because

3 (2h 18m 42s):
Oh, you should definitely go I mean he's a great teacher. He was one of hen's very early black belts. Yeah. Matt, Matt, Sarah's a legit world champion. He's like a legit world championship caliber Juujitsu player. He's very, very good. Before he got an MMA, you feel like

4 (2h 18m 56s):
A dick talking to a guy like that. Like, even though he's one of my closest friends, it's like, he's so high level. It's like if I was friends with somebody for 10 years and then they said, Hey, you wanna come watch me do standup I was like, Ugh.

3 (2h 19m 7s):
No. Yeah. But he, he teaches white belts. That's what he does. He does it all the time. I mean Matt, Sarah, even though he is like, he's famous and he's former UFC champion. He teaches Yeah. Like all the time.

4 (2h 19m 18s):
And he loves it. He loves doing it. He

3 (2h 19m 19s):
Loves it. He loves it. He's really good at it too. So if you go and learn from him, he will definitely show you some things that you can incorporate.

4 (2h 19m 25s):
You know what's great about it? You, when you're doing it, you don't think of anything but what you're doing in that moment. Right. It's crazy. Like there's no, yeah. and I would notice that where I would go in stressed and do it, and then when I'm finished I'm like, I didn't think about a fucking thing other than exactly what Mike was telling me to do or what I was doing with this person. There was no other thoughts. Right. There's no other time to think about anything. Yeah. So I, I like to, I'm really happy I started.

3 (2h 19m 47s):
Those things are really good for you. Things that can do that for you. I bet that's what that climbing thing is like. I bet that's one of the reason why these guys do it. I think when you're doing something that requires all of your focus, it's very cleaning. It's like a mental, like you, you're blowing out your mental pipes and cleaning out all the bullshit.

4 (2h 20m 4s):
Yeah. If it's healthy. Like I've, I've done a lot of healthy stuff that zones you out. Unhealthy stuff that zones you out like that. Right. Like when you're riding around at fucking from midnight to 6:00 AM around the meat packing district, only just like, dude, it craziness. I can't, like, you're just numb. It doesn't feel like anything. You're just looking out the window. You can only talk to someone if they're on the left side of the car. Like, it was just crazy.

3 (2h 20m 25s):
What do you think would've changed if I mean, what is prostitution in New York now? Is it legal or is it decriminalized? Like they did something recently?

4 (2h 20m 34s):
I don't know, to be honest with you. 'cause I've been out like it's been so long since I've been in that world. I don't, I I honestly don't know. It's

3 (2h 20m 41s):
A fascinating conversation because everyone's like, well you would never want your daughter or your mother or your sister to be a prostitute. Right, right. Of course. But you don't think that you should be able to tell someone that they can't be a prostitute either. Right. Like, I don't Yeah, it's true. I don't wanna tell anybody what to do. Yeah. and I don't think it's good for you. But I don't, I don't think, I think a lot don don't think coal mining's good for you either. You know what I mean? Yeah. Like, I don't, it's like, because of the way our society is and the way we look at sex, we think of sex work as being a very different kind of work because it's involving like intimacy in your body versus a lot of other things you might hate to do.

3 (2h 21m 23s):
But they don't involve intimacy in your body, in your genitals. And there's people that wanna make an argument. They're like, why should that have any factor on whether or not it should be legal? Right. Yeah. Someone wants to do coal mining. You shouldn't be able to say, no, you can't coal mine. 'cause coal mining sucks. But if they want to do prostitution, if someone's like, you know, I just wanna go out and blow some guys. Yeah. Make some money. Yeah, no, you can't do it. Yeah. You can't do it. Like, I don't want you to do it, but, but you can't do it another human being telling one human being that you can go out and fuck all the guys you want for free. Right. But if you get paid, we're gonna lock you up.

4 (2h 21m 58s):
It's a weird thing. It's like people have to be free to make decisions that some other people find objectionable. Like that's what it is. Yeah. Like you have to be able to make adult decisions yourself as long as you're an adult and you're making the decisions yourself. But I haven't, I haven't been involved with it in so long just because again, it's the first time I've ever like truly been faithful. But it's again, not out of me thinking I'm this fucking great guy. It's just I'm afraid if I'm not I'll destroy something and not be able to fix it.

3 (2h 22m 26s):
What do you think it happens when sex robots come out? Like real ones?

4 (2h 22m 31s):
You know,

3 (2h 22m 31s):
Whatcha showing me Jamie?

4 (2h 22m 33s):
Oh, that's in Queens. I think I did hear about that. Right. In Queens there, there's a lot of street walkers.

3 (2h 22m 38s):
Is this New York City Avenue is being un overrun by brazen brothels operating in broad daylight. Is it legal?

5 (2h 22m 45s):
They decriminalized it in Manhattan. Maybe in

3 (2h 22m 48s):
2021, stop prosecuting prostitution port of nationwide shift. Part of nationwide shift. District attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. Moved to dismiss thousands of cases dating back decades amid a growing movement to change the criminal justice systems approach to Prostitutions. How old

4 (2h 23m 4s):
Is this article? 'cause Cyrus Vance, don don't, is he still there?

5 (2h 23m 6s):
So that was 2021. Okay. But in this article it says something just like that. This says they asked a cop and he like, we're not allowed to arrest prostitutes anymore. Supposedly. Oh,

4 (2h 23m 14s):
Okay.

3 (2h 23m 15s):
They're not, but they've gotta figure something out. They're

5 (2h 23m 17s):
Not it.

3 (2h 23m 19s):
Interesting. Sex robots. How do they have this fucking going on in broad daylight? A police source asked of seeing photos of the women on the streets so popular with Pervs that it's advertised on YouTube. What? What their brothel is advertised. Whoa. Yeah. Is that girl real girl that

4 (2h 23m 37s):
Works there? I don't know. I'll, I'll do a little fucking

3 (2h 23m 40s):
Reconnaissance. Scroll back up. Jimmy I mean. Damn.

5 (2h 23m 44s):
At least a picture of a person.

4 (2h 23m 45s):
It looks a little like a Photoshop. Like a little bit of like a little

3 (2h 23m 47s):
It might be ai.

4 (2h 23m 48s):
Yeah. Or it looks like a little bit of touch up has been done. Maybe

3 (2h 23m 50s):
Her mom works there. Yeah. Perfect storm for prostitution in Corona and New York City. Immigrant enclaves. Vulnerable migrant women unable to legally work are flooding the city while local district attorneys have chosen to stop prosecuting sex workers. Wow. This is crazy cooperation. Yeah. Yeah. The Roosevelt Avenue Red Light District is blatantly advertised on a YouTube channel for Spanish speakers with 10 minutes of footage showing the women working what they call the market of sweethearts and two men guiding viewers on how to negotiate with them. Alright. Whoa. I found that there's a YouTube

5 (2h 24m 29s):
Clip. I found the search topic, so

3 (2h 24m 30s):
Oh my God. It's silly find Yeah, find that. Yeah. There's

4 (2h 24m 33s):
Articles that still, that are newer articles that still come up. It's still a problem. It's in, in

3 (2h 24m 37s):
Queens, bro. Gimme some volume. What? This is wild.

5 (2h 24m 43s):
It's gonna be loud boys. So let's find

3 (2h 24m 47s):
The, the market of Sweethearts. So this is in Queens.

4 (2h 24m 50s):
Wow. I think so. Yeah.

5 (2h 24m 53s):
Yeah. The one article too, I was looking right back and forth, said a lot of like the unlicensed massages and other things like that. They're just gonna stop prosecuting.

3 (2h 25m 1s):
Imagine if a how a store downstairs that just sells socks in pantyhose and baseball hats. And above it there's prostitutes. Like what a Yeah. Wild neighborhoods.

4 (2h 25m 11s):
Imagine how many more people would come in and see your baseball hats and socks on their way in.

3 (2h 25m 14s):
Like, this whole neighborhood is wild.

5 (2h 25m 17s):
It doesn't show up too much in this video either, though.

3 (2h 25m 19s):
Oh, so these are the girls that are waiting? I guess so.

4 (2h 25m 21s):
Yeah. But they look kind of plainly and normally dressed.

5 (2h 25m 24s):
See? Yeah. This just seems like you're just walking around New York like this unless you know exactly what you're doing. Yeah. There's just women.

4 (2h 25m 30s):
Yeah. It's not like the old days when you would ride around and see people like who were dressed obviously like they were working.

3 (2h 25m 34s):
Right. But there must be another video, Jamie, that they were talking about that advertise how to talk to the men. Why don't you throw it into YouTube?

5 (2h 25m 44s):
It's TikTok. It's the same

3 (2h 25m 47s):
Video. This is it.

5 (2h 25m 49s):
This is a shorter version of the same video mark.

4 (2h 25m 51s):
Oh, they run away from the cameras. That's a,

3 (2h 25m 53s):
Yeah. Well it's probably a lot of illegals, right? Yeah. They come over here.

5 (2h 26m 1s):
Copy. Hmm.

4 (2h 26m 3s):
The avenue of Sweethearts

3 (2h 26m 5s):
Weird.

4 (2h 26m 6s):
Yeah. You don't see it in Manhattan anymore.

3 (2h 26m 10s):
The New York City Red Light District. So there's a red light district in

4 (2h 26m 13s):
New York City. Yeah. Roosevelt Avenue. You're right. Okay.

3 (2h 26m 15s):
Wow. Crazy dude.

5 (2h 26m 20s):
Well, there's an inside here. Go

3 (2h 26m 24s):
A rare glimpse inside a New York City brothel.

4 (2h 26m 27s):
That's probably some hidden camera.

3 (2h 26m 29s):
Yeah. Like they have those cameras now that are like, they're like a fucking tie pin, you know? Yeah.

4 (2h 26m 34s):
It's scary going into different places. You're probably always being filmed. Oh,

3 (2h 26m 39s):
You're fucking, and there's curtains between you and the people fucking next to you. Like, yikes. Yeah.

4 (2h 26m 44s):
Yeah. That's a little bit too, that's

5 (2h 26m 46s):
Exactly how I pictured it.

4 (2h 26m 47s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's a little,

3 (2h 26m 50s):
That's a, they don't give you a lot of room to move around it either in that room.

4 (2h 26m 53s):
No. No. And the cameras scare me. Like there's probably cameras Yeah. In everyone's house now. Oh

3 (2h 26m 60s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 27m 0s):
You gotta be. So, especially if you're a married guy fucking running around. Oh, you have kids?

3 (2h 27m 5s):
Well, there's cameras outside of doors now. There's cameras outside of businesses. There's cameras, there's, we're, we're gonna get to a point where there was, there was a, an invention that they were working on a long time ago that would have these tiny, they, they, I don't know what you would call them, like tiny machines that were the size of a grain of sand and or a, a grain of rice. And you could spread them everywhere. And they would give you location data. They would give you video and audio. They would give you all sorts of different things, but they're so tiny that you could just leave them right all over the place. And they would transmit through a network and they would like operate.

3 (2h 27m 47s):
I don't know how they'd operate solar power, what they would do. They have a small battery, whatever it is. But this was an idea that I had read that they thought, thought would eventually come to fruition. That they, you would literally have these tiny nano cameras everywhere

4 (2h 28m 1s):
When they put little cameras in when when they finally get it down to insect size, the size of an ant or a fly. They

3 (2h 28m 6s):
Have that. Yeah.

4 (2h 28m 7s):
Then, then you're kind of, then you're kind of fucked. I mean, I have cameras. Like I literal, I've

3 (2h 28m 12s):
Seen those little tiny, they look like a, like a little tiny, like a fake bee or a fake fly. And it's a little mechanical fly.

4 (2h 28m 20s):
I saw it in Black Mirror, which is kind of how I picture it.

3 (2h 28m 23s):
I think they have 'em. I think it's, I think it's a real thing now.

4 (2h 28m 26s):
Dude. I have, I have three cameras in my house. I have one in my, when you walk into my apartment comes so fucking paranoid. I have one facing the front door and I have two on my terrace. 'cause I'm always afraid someone's gonna jump down from the roof, which is kind of crazy. That's

3 (2h 28m 40s):
Totally

4 (2h 28m 41s):
Possible. and I saw my wife one time. I was watching back footage and I, I and I saw some guy come in and, and she was kissing him. And I'm like, what the fuck? I was really fucking, I confronted her with it. It was me. It was a fucking video of me. I was looking back, I didn't realize that it was me. Whoa. I didn't recognize myself in the video. And I'm confronted, I'm like, who the fuck is this? and it was just a video of me leaving

3 (2h 29m 2s):
You confronted her before you realized that

4 (2h 29m 3s):
It, dude, I'm such a, can

3 (2h 29m 4s):
You like zoom in on her or

4 (2h 29m 6s):
Something? I I, it's a, it's a terrible grainy photo. and I took screen grabs of it and I'm like, who the fuck is this? and it was me. Well,

3 (2h 29m 12s):
You guys role playing.

4 (2h 29m 13s):
I, I swear to God it was, it was. I'm like, why? It wasn't, they were like, it was like a, a weird intimate kiss on the cheek and a long hug. And I realized that it was me and I. I have the photos somewhere. I like I. don know why

3 (2h 29m 25s):
That I think you need a better camera.

4 (2h 29m 27s):
No. Or I just need to fucking watch something through. Or you know what? It was also

3 (2h 29m 31s):
A better camera because if you thought it, you didn't even know it was you. How are you going to, if it is someone else, if someone is breaking into your house, you're never gonna get a good description of

4 (2h 29m 38s):
Them. No. I know. It'd be it. It's just some dumpy guy in a fucking hoodie, which is what I saw. But I think the color changes a little bit with the light. I just didn't recognize myself. Yeah. And so I confronted her. Then we kind of, you know, I felt like a fucking idiot. That's pretty fucking Yeah.

3 (2h 29m 52s):
That's pretty funny. Yeah.

4 (2h 29m 53s):
But the cameras are, look, I feel safer with them at night. I kind of want to get a pistol. Is this, I

3 (2h 29m 57s):
Found a lot of

5 (2h 29m 57s):
Articles talking about Smart Dust, which is what you're just describing. Yeah. But I can't find anything that talks about like, here's it in action. A lot of descriptions of this is what it will do. But all the way dating back to the, maybe even as early as the nineties they've been talking about. Yeah,

3 (2h 30m 11s):
That's what I was talking about. That it was kind of more theoretical than anything. They think that it, don don't know how they would power it.

4 (2h 30m 17s):
Ring camera has this thing I love. I have, I, by the way, when we go away, I set up five ring cameras in my house. So if anybody comes in, I see what room they're in. I see what they're doing. Like, like if the super has to come in, can

3 (2h 30m 29s):
You talk to them and say, I know where you're

4 (2h 30m 31s):
I can, yeah, yeah, yeah. and I actually will text a worker. He was in one time, just like, just so you know, there's ring cameras. I don't wanna think I'm fucking spying on him. Yeah. But the ring has this thing now where it's like a little, it it, it raises up and will patrol the inside of your house. Whoa.

3 (2h 30m 45s):
It's a drone.

4 (2h 30m 45s):
Yeah. But I applied to get it, like, you have to apply to be a part of the program. And they just keep telling me to go fuck myself. Like, I want this so bad. It raises up and it will fly in a pattern that you s like you walk around with it and you show it where to go. Oh wow. And then you put it back down and it can repeat that pattern. So it's just like, check

3 (2h 31m 4s):
This down. This

5 (2h 31m 5s):
Is, they just showed this at CES. It's made by Samsung.

3 (2h 31m 9s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 31m 9s):
This is not

3 (2h 31m 10s):
It, but

5 (2h 31m 10s):
This I know. But this little robot does a lot of what you're just talking about. They show this lady's, let me get to the video where it's showing it, but she's using it at home with her pet. Here you go. Huh. It can connect to all of your stuff that's already at home and do good things for you. You know, but also maybe weird shit. It can talk to your dog and it can

3 (2h 31m 27s):
Feed your dog. So it's projecting on that screen. That's what it's showing, right? Yeah.

5 (2h 31m 31s):
When I first saw it, I didn't see any of this. Like actual, like this is like personal assistant usage almost.

3 (2h 31m 36s):
Huh. And it's working with your Galaxy Watch. Is that what it it's working on? and I

5 (2h 31m 40s):
Think that's connected to Samsung stuff and their network of stuff. Mm huh. Which I guess in theory then you could add your lights as part of your air conditioning.

3 (2h 31m 48s):
Yeah. They make refrigerators now. Samsung has a refrigerator that will take an ai, will use AI to tell you what the expiration dates of all the food products that are in your refrigerator when they were put in there. The, the contents of them. It'll break it all down for you and even give you recipes to cook. Like the food that's in your fridge. It's not

5 (2h 32m 8s):
Out. LG has one also. Yeah. don don't have one.

3 (2h 32m 10s):
Interesting. Yeah. This

4 (2h 32m 11s):
One from Ring didn't, it didn't have any like personality to it. It just, it was like a box that this thing would raise up out if it was Square. It wasn't like it didn't, I don't think it did anything else.

3 (2h 32m 22s):
Well, I think Samsung is about to release the, there's two steps. One is their AI thing where they're gonna have a conference. I think it's Inve I know if it's in Vegas,

5 (2h 32m 34s):
There's the thing Jim is talking about.

3 (2h 32m 37s):
Yeah. So it flies around. Yeah.

4 (2h 32m 38s):
It raises up outta that little dock.

3 (2h 32m 40s):
Oh, that's wild. That is cool.

4 (2h 32m 45s):
Yeah. and it, well, like whatever pre, I think pre-programmed and

3 (2h 32m 48s):
It goes back in there and sits in place and gets charged.

4 (2h 32m 50s):
Gets charged again. Yeah. I think it's good for five minutes an hour. Isn't that awesome?

3 (2h 32m 54s):
That's incredible. That's incredible. That's so

4 (2h 32m 57s):
Cool.

3 (2h 32m 58s):
Yeah. That's really cool. It's really cool looking too.

4 (2h 33m 1s):
Yeah. I,

3 (2h 33m 2s):
It looks like what I would hope like a little robot watchdog from the future would look like. Can you guide it if you were out of town? That

4 (2h 33m 9s):
I don't know. I think it, I'm, I'm assuming that it's just the pattern you've established. Right. But like, I get so paranoid about flooding and shit like that. Like I would love to be able to see if my floors are flooded.

3 (2h 33m 19s):
Dude, that's fucking dope. That that thing is dope.

5 (2h 33m 22s):
Functionality is simulated for illustrated purposes. So it doesn't really show it in use.

3 (2h 33m 26s):
This Samsung refrigerator thing was fascinating to me. I'm like, what a great idea. You have a refrigerator that tells you what the ingredients you have in the refrigerator is when the expiration date of these foods are. And then gives you a recipe so you can cook based on what's in the fridge.

4 (2h 33m 43s):
I I mean. I like that. And then there's also the part of don don't want my refrigerator involved. Like it's just too, it's too much. Yeah. Like, you know what I mean? My refrigerator's always fucking empty. It's got Rx bars in it and like bananas and some fruit. Like there's never a whole lot going on in my refrigerator.

3 (2h 33m 59s):
That's probably better. Yeah. You probably don't wanna go too hard with the fridge.

4 (2h 34m 2s):
No. I mean like again, it's just, I order meals. It's just a fridge. It's a fridge. I don. I don't need it to, I don't need to have a relationship with it. Like, I just wanna go in and get some shit. I have these meals I order, they're like for the whole 30 diet, which is what I do. and I really lose weight and they just, they pre-make 'em and they send them and I know what, what I'm Oh that's great. It's fucking, but it's boring. 'cause you eat the same stuff all the time. Even if you have a variety. But it's better than I would do on my own. Oh,

3 (2h 34m 25s):
For sure. And it's real food.

4 (2h 34m 27s):
It's real food. It's like theres some carbs that are healthy, like there's potatoes and things like that. That's

3 (2h 34m 31s):
The key. Like when I see Joe OSA's sandwich shop that's advertised on the Instagram. It looks good.

4 (2h 34m 36s):
It looks good. and it is good. I've

3 (2h 34m 37s):
Eaten. It looks I bet it's goddamn delicious. Yeah. But I bet if I ate there every day, I'd have a big fat face.

4 (2h 34m 42s):
Yeah. I think I've eaten a little bites of Joe's sandwiches and I'm, again, if I go there, I know, like I keep saying when I lose weight, I'm gonna go and get a Darosa sandwich because they are very good little samples. He brought 'em, he didn't bring him to Rry, brought 'em in his chip. He did chip one time and he brought fucking sandwiches and they were actually very tasty.

3 (2h 34m 57s):
I'm sure they're great. They look awesome on the internet. But the point is, is like I'll, you know, I see that and it looks great, but I know what that is. Like that that's, that's the food. That's just comfort food tastes delicious. Yeah. But you really shouldn't be eating that every day.

4 (2h 35m 12s):
No. And I've gotten, it's funny, I've gotten into Jersey Mikes like, I know my manager hates them so much 'cause he hates the name Jersey Mikes. He feels like it's a fake name. He's really weird with the stuff that he doesn't like. So I tried them once and I'm like, I fucking, and they would send us like coupons and, and free stuff and that fucking, it's good food. Like they

3 (2h 35m 30s):
Make a good sub.

4 (2h 35m 31s):
They make a good sub

3 (2h 35m 32s):
Man. Yeah. They do. They make a good Italian sub very

4 (2h 35m 35s):
Hard to not eat bad. It's like very hard not to be a pig when you have the money to go out and get right what you want. Right. Within reason, like I can go out and eat in any restaurant and it's really hard to not like, on on, on Thanksgiving, the thing we wanted to do is after Thanksgiving we wanted to go get McDonald's. Like I'm like, I'm gonna be a piece of shit today. Let me go and, and do that. Which we didn't. Instead we went to this fucking Mexican place, which was shit, we should have went to McDonald's. But you gotta give yourself a day or two to do it and then not do it.

3 (2h 36m 2s):
Yeah. If you give yourself like a designated cheat day, whether it's once a week or once a month or whatever you choose to do, and then just eat then, then you'll have fun. But then you'll all like Sean Brady was here yesterday from the UFC. Yeah. And he was saying that after he won his fight, he, after he beat Kelvin glum, he had one day we just ate like a pig and he said he felt so fucking terrible the next day he's like, God, I gotta get right back on track. He's like, but I gave myself one day and I felt like fucking total dog shit. Yeah. After it was over,

4 (2h 36m 29s):
I was watching like on Instagram the Rock will do like these Sunday cheat days. Yeah, yeah. But I, this is how delusional I am. I've actually watched that went fuck it. I'm gonna have some, you know, like, like almost like the Rock and I are on the same fucking food regimen. But I'll watch him eat something and it will make me want to have a cheat day. But it's like, Jim, you've given yourself nothing but cheat days for 30 years. You're fat. Fuck. Like, I pound 25 pounds. Like I know it like, you know, and I, thankfully the comments online, they seem to recognize it too. But you know, I gotta drop 20 pounds and I started again. But I can't unsee it. Like when I'm fat or when I'm fatter. My ex, I dated one of my trainers and she's in perfect fucking shape. And even she messaged me about a month ago and she goes, Hey, I've been seeing your Instagram pictures.

4 (2h 37m 12s):
It looks like you've given up on your diet. Like she was trying to be gentle and going, is there anything I can do? and I'm like, man, you gotta do something. When you've been, when ex-girlfriends are telling you you got fucking fat Jim, you gotta do something. You know, it's humiliating. But I love her for sending me that message. 'cause it was like the final straw. I'm like, I gotta stop. Yeah.

3 (2h 37m 29s):
Fat shaming works.

4 (2h 37m 30s):
And she was trying to be helpful. Like she's just, I don't even think she wanted me to feel bad. I think that she had noticed it for a while as it progressed. Like I've been going through these and I and then like in the last say six months, it just got to be bad again. So I'm like, I can't go back to where I was years ago. Yeah. It was just too unhappy.

3 (2h 37m 48s):
Yeah. It's not good. And it's also avoidable. It's one of the most avoidable things because you choose to put whatever you eat into your mouth. It's your choice.

4 (2h 37m 57s):
Yeah. And she'll, my wife gets mad at me. She's like, well, can you wear something other than black and black jeans? and I'm like, stop fucking bringing home cookies. Like if I lose weight, you can dress me. I'll wear it

3 (2h 38m 6s):
Just like turquoise wear something flashy. Maybe velure something Velure.

4 (2h 38m 11s):
I would love to wear velvet, a gentleman's red velvet jacket. Ooh. But I would let her, I I don dunno if I'd trust her to dress. She dressed me as like a fucking, like a, like a creep. Like, you know, she Yeah. She, yeah. She thinks I'm better looking than I am. But I would, I would let her buy what she wanted for me if I lost the weight. Mm. But I have to lose maybe 15 more

3 (2h 38m 30s):
Pounds. Do you have a, a plan? Do you have like it written out?

4 (2h 38m 33s):
No, I I know the diet that works for me is if I, if I stick to, like you said, no sugar, no carb, the whole 30 diet. I've lost I mean I, I, I lost a lot of weight on that. and it, you lose it pretty quick. But I just been, it's hard to not cheat. You know, again,

3 (2h 38m 48s):
I get it. Food's delicious. It's hardest for me when I'm tired late at night. Yeah. I come home, I just want to eat whatever I want to eat. don don't want to have like a restriction based on diet.

4 (2h 38m 58s):
When I stopped watching lots of porn, like I still watch it, but it's much less, I started eating more. 'cause again, it's that fucking dopamine drip. Oh,

3 (2h 39m 6s):
Right, right. Makes sense.

4 (2h 39m 7s):
But when I'm on a roll and I'm watching porn, the weight just comes off me because I'm fucking too busy to eat cake. Jerk off diet. I'm jerking off. Yeah. You can't do both.

3 (2h 39m 17s):
That's hilarious. Are you staying in town tonight?

4 (2h 39m 20s):
I am. Yeah. You set tonight? Yeah, I am tonight. And then back to New York tomorrow. It's

3 (2h 39m 24s):
Fun having you at the club. Last night was

4 (2h 39m 26s):
Good time. I love it man. Thank you. This is actually, can I plug? Yeah. I wanna plug, I'm on tour again. So go to my website, Jim Norton dot com. If you wanna see me live. I got like 20 cities and at Nikki and Jim NYC is our YouTube channel. If you wanna see my wife and I just kind of living our existence.

3 (2h 39m 41s):
Bam. There it is. Yeah. Do that picture again.

4 (2h 39m 43s):
It's, it's, it's the, it's the least fat pig picture. She was a just that

3 (2h 39m 48s):
Barely Looks like

4 (2h 39m 49s):
You I know. I really,

3 (2h 39m 50s):
It's weird. It looks like, like a salesman from somewhere trying to sell me a mobile home.

4 (2h 39m 54s):
The only reason I'm using that is we took a, we did a photo shoot. I'm a pig in every picture. This is the one I look least fat in. And she was futzing with my shirt. That wasn't supposed to be the picture, but I'm like, let's just use that for now. It's not a good on the phone, it looks even worse because it's just my fucking, it's just my head. Alright.

3 (2h 40m 12s):
So beautiful. Jim. Norton. I love you. Thank you. I love you Joe. Thanks for having me hanging last night. Yes. and I. See you tonight.