0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night, All day.

0 (12s):
What's

3 (13s):
Happening brother?

4 (13s):
How you doing,

3 (14s):
Man? Thanks for doing this, man.

4 (15s):
Man. Thanks for having

3 (16s):
Me, dude. Listen, man, I've been a fan of your work for, well, first thing I ever saw that you did was hell or high water. But going through the, my friend Andrew Schultz turned me on a Yellowstone. I got a text message from him once, like at one o'clock in the morning. Like, dude, Yellowstone, have you seen it? Like, no. Everybody's watching it. Should I watch it? He's like, dude, watch it. So I got in the Yellowstone and it goes like, Yellowstone is fucking great. But 1923 is better, but 1883. Holy shit. And on your recommendation, I finished it last night. I was up till one 30 in the morning. I didn't sleep. I went to, I went to bed at like four. 'cause I was just laying around my house just thinking about it.

3 (56s):
'cause going, what the fuck, man? That I don't think anybody has ever nailed that time period like you did. I, there's nothing close. There's nothing even in the fucking ballpark. Nothing. Well,

4 (1m 9s):
Thanks. I, I, you know, the reason I chose to do this for a living, I was off to my third college. I was gonna go flunk out of, and, and, and right before I left I'd read Lonesome Dove, you know, Mercury's book. And then I saw the miniseries with Duvall and, and Tom Lee and I said, I, I wanna do that. don don't know what that is, but that's what I wanna do. Wow. You know, so I started, I started as an actor first. 'cause I thought that's what it was. And then I realized I'm not doing that. I'm not creating a story. And then finally, you know, I got the conus to quit and, and, and write my own. But yeah, 1883 was me, Yellowstone's the, the punk rock Me.

4 (1m 53s):
There's, there's a fair amount of, it's, it has no plot really. You know, don't take my land. I want your land. Right. And in that I have a lot of opportunities to, to poke fun, but also kind of point out different points of views and kind of really study away a life in a world. But there's a lot of defiance in the way that I do it. It's, it's not surprising that critics hate it because it's designed for them.

3 (2m 17s):
Critics hate what they hate Yellowstone

4 (2m 19s):
And confounded by its success. Oh

3 (2m 21s):
God. They

4 (2m 21s):
Can't get their heads around why it's success. There's been New York Times, it's done multiple, multiple articles where they're doing like this essay on how is this shit so popular?

3 (2m 33s):
Oh God, that's so funny. It's so funny that they don't get it. But

4 (2m 36s):
1883 was me growing up saying like, Hey, let's take a look back at history. Yeah. Let's look at us and who us is as far as the, you know, the Europeans who settled this place and, and let's not argue about whether they should or shouldn't have. Let's just look at what the hell they went through to do it.

3 (2m 54s):
Critics are less relevant today than at any time in human history. They really are. They're, they're off so much more than they're on.

4 (3m 4s):
Yeah. Agreed.

3 (3m 5s):
And most people don't buy into it at all. Like, if you look at the, like, a perfect example is one of Dave Chappelle's specials. The critic score was like 3% on Rotten Tomatoes, and then the public score was 97%. Yeah. Like, that's all you need to know.

4 (3m 21s):
That's, that's all my shows. Like

3 (3m 22s):
Who, who the fuck are you? Like who are these people? Who are these people that are critics?

4 (3m 26s):
I have a show called Mayor of Kingstown, which is all about literally the decay of an American city. and I think it was 21% on Rotten Tomatoes and 94% audience writing something like that Of course. Something bananas, Of course.

3 (3m 38s):
And it, I just don't understand why they're still employed. I mean, what, what is the purpose that they serve other than speaking to other completely disconnected, supposedly high brow people that live in congested urban

4 (3m 56s):
Areas. Yeah. and I think also that critics and I don't know why, but they seem to feel a need to judge any project by what it, how is it looking at the lens through today's new question, morality. How is, what should we be making movies about? And you can make a shitty movie about something that they support and they're gonna support that movie. Yeah. But my, that's not my job. My job as a storyteller is to pick a world and look through the window and not judge it and go, Hey, here's what it was. Yeah. And, and here's the decision some people made. And you know, for me, you know, the holy grail as a storyteller is entertain, educate, and enlighten. Don't give anybody answers.

4 (4m 36s):
Just lots of questions to think about. That's my job. 'cause I can't stand to pay money and have somebody preach to me. Yeah. Their ideas. That's the fastest, fastest, fastest way to get me out. That's the reason I hated Forrest Gump. and Don don't mean to say that we're gonna catch all the shit, but this daughtering fucking idiot is the only guy that can figure out the world. Everybody else around him, he's just gonna go on a fucking run across America and everyone's gonna follow him, and that's gonna heal the country. I just was like, what is this shit?

3 (5m 2s):
Well, I think back then it was just, it was novel. 'cause it was, it was, the idea was like the, the wor like it could be so much simpler that this simple guy could figure it out. And that we are all so disconnected from

4 (5m 16s):
Solutions. The irony is, you, you couldn't make that movie today. Oh, no way. 'cause someone would be too offended at Sure. The portrayal of Forest character.

3 (5m 22s):
Well, my favorite movie that you can never make today is Tropic Thunder.

4 (5m 27s):
Oh,

3 (5m 28s):
It's a fucking great movie. I'm so glad they haven't banned it. You know, like, like they've done so many books like, you know, and Tom Hanks, you know, like if you go and watch his portrayal of Forrest Gump, it's nothing compared to the way they do. Like that simple jack character in Tropic Thunder. Right. And when he says, you never go full retard. Like, you can't even say that word anymore. No.

4 (5m 56s):
But, but if you look at that movie, which was designed to offend, but also ridicule us, taking ourselves too seriously. Yes. That's, that's one of our jobs. Yes. You know, it's, Hey, yeah. Let's, we're all taking ourselves way too seriously. And if we can make light of this and make jokes about this, then all of a sudden it won't feel so serious and we can be reflective. Well,

3 (6m 16s):
What, what's happened in your business has happened in my business too. The business of comedy, like comedy movies are dead. They've, they've cer essentially killed the genre. All the movies that we grew up loving, like all the movies, like something about Mary and, you know, fucking you, you could go down the line all the way down to Animal House. You could never make any of those movies anymore. Yeah.

4 (6m 37s):
And, and to go one step further, like comedians since Lenny Bruce, these guys, men and women whose job it was to push the envelope as far as it can be pushed to help us look at ourselves. And you think of the greats, like the great comics, bill Hicks, Eddie Murphy, Sam Kinison, I mean, Robin Williams. And, and you look at their, at their acts, hell look at, look at what, what, what's her name? Before she did a talk show, Joan Rivers. Yeah. None of their acts would be socially acceptable today. And, and don don't know that they were socially acceptable then, but that was their job. Richard Pryor. Yeah. He couldn't say 90% of what he said.

3 (7m 18s):
Yeah.

4 (7m 18s):
But he's, but you need people to sit there and push those boundaries. 'cause art to one person, defense it to another. But you gotta have it. You gotta have it all.

3 (7m 25s):
Yeah. We say, you know, in the comedy world, we say we're the last line of defense. 'cause this is where, where the woke meets the wall, the woke meets the wall with standup comedy. This, this, you can't have woke comedy. It sucks. It's impossible. You can't like always punch up and cater to everybody. And it's like, no, it's, that's not what's funny. What's funny is the, the fucking weird things that people do and all of our hypocrisies and all of our contradictions and all, all the chaos about being a human being. And if you want to never make fun of marginalized groups, or never make fun of protected classes, or never make fun of anybody that's down trodden or disassociated or disa.

3 (8m 6s):
Well you can't do that. You can't. That's, that's not standup comedy. Standup comedy has to be everything. It has to be everything that's funny. Regardless of whether or not it's socially acceptable to make fun of those things.

4 (8m 18s):
And I think that we need to, it's healing to laugh, right? Yeah. It's healing to, to, and by the way, if we're gonna talk about race relations, who are some of the people that help push that, who help people understand how you felt on, you know, how in the world when I'm 14 years old, am I supposed to know how it feels to be African American in la? How am I gonna know that? Growing up in a small town in Texas, but then you see a comic who's from South Central LA make jokes about me, make jokes about living there, and you get some understanding of it. Yeah. You have some empathy, you have some, some knowledge.

3 (8m 50s):
Well, we're in a weird time where everybody has a say and I don't think everybody should be able to talk. It's like I mean, everybody should be able to talk. But through social media that gets just broadcast en mass to the world. And you get these groups of people that they huddle up in these fucking echo chambers and they duke it out.

4 (9m 11s):
I think, I think we have a what's happening right now, and it's privilege, it's, it's from a coddled, we're the, this is the wealthiest nation society in the history of civilization.

3 (9m 25s):
Yeah.

4 (9m 26s):
And people are so coddled that they have confused feelings with rights and your feelings being heard as a violation of your rights. Yeah. And it's not Yeah. You do not have a right to never be offended.

3 (9m 39s):
It's worse than that. They've confused, hurting your feelings with violence. Yeah. They, they literally could say words or violence. Yeah. What

4 (9m 44s):
Yeah. Disagreeing with someone is violence. You've

3 (9m 46s):
Never seen real violence then you're talking nonsense. Somebody said something once and I repeated it many times, but it's a great thing to say. The worst thing that's ever happened to you is the worst thing that's ever happened to you. Even it's, if you just, the worst thing that's ever happened to you, you got a flat tire. Yeah. Oh my god. Yeah. If you had a bunch of shit happen to you and you get a flat tire, like, I guess I gotta change my tire. It's no big deal. But if you are living this fucking sheltered life, and the worst thing that's ever happened is you're a a a dude in a dress and someone misgenders you, you know, like, oh my God, this is violence. Like, no, this is not violence. You're a fucking guy in a dress. And it's confusing, man. It's fucking confusing. If you want me to call you a girl, I'll call you a girl. But this is confusing.

3 (10m 26s):
This is fucking confusing. This is not violence.

4 (10m 29s):
The other thing is they'll say now if you disagree with someone, you're phobic. Yeah. When a phobia is an irrational fear of something. Right. So disagreeing is not an irrational fear. It's disagreement. Right. And, and we've reached a point to where people won't, they can't even have a conversation because someone's gonna sit there and scream as soon as you hear violence or you hear, then the conversation's over.

3 (10m 47s):
Right. You're racist, you're transphobic, you're homophobic, whatever you are conversation's over, they've minimalized everything. They've marginalized your position. It's, it's interesting. It, it's terrible for comedy movies though. But it's really fun for comedy though. For standup comedy. It's, it's actually fun. Are

4 (11m 4s):
They, are they running with it?

3 (11m 5s):
Oh my God. We're having a great time. It's like one, my friend Ari said it best, he said, this is a really great time for comedy. 'cause comedy's dangerous again. 'cause comedy didn't used to be dangerous for a long time. You could, there was a lot of shock comics that were kind of, they were saying things just to be shocking, you know? and I certainly did that earlier in my career. And now, like, if you have, you have a position to defend. If you're gonna go out on a limb, you're gonna make fun of something that's dangerous. You gotta have that shit tight. Right. It's gotta be good. It's gotta be roars huge laughs. It has to be, it has to be something where people go, oh shit, I can't, like Dave Chappelle's the best example of that.

3 (11m 46s):
When he goes after something, whatever it is, it's just so goddamn funny that even though it's supposed to be something you're not supposed to talk about, it's so good that everybody has to back off except the critics Of course.

4 (11m 59s):
But what makes Chappelle so, so good and so funny is he's gonna say things that from a point of view is true. Like it's rooted in some logic. Yeah. And, and he's, and he's smarter than about anyone who's gonna oppose him. And, and he's thought through his, his position so completely He can defend it. You could disagree with it. Yeah. But you can't say he doesn't have an opinion and it's not grounded in facts or at least well thought out ideas. Yeah.

3 (12m 26s):
He's hammering that shit out every night too. He, he's a fascinating guy. The way he's doing it. He literally will fly into a city. He doesn't even book shows. He flies into cities and just shows up at clubs and goes on after the show's over. Really? Yeah. Or pops in, in the middle of a show. Like, he's done it to me before. I was in Denver once and he just showed up. I, I got off stage and I went into the green room and I go, what's up? What are you doing, man? He goes, oh, hey Joe. and I go, what are you doing here, man? He goes, I knew he was in town. I thought I'd stop by. I go, you wanna go up? He goes, should I? I go, fuck. Yeah. So I literally went out and stopped the audience. Everyone's leaving. The show was over. They, they were already like paying their tab going home and I go yell at everybody on the stairs, tell to come back, Dave Chappelle's here, and the whole audience came back in.

3 (13m 11s):
Wow. And, and that's how he works things out. So he just goes around and just fucks around and then slowly hammers these bits out until he gets 'em into this like, bulletproof form. And then he puts 'em out on a special. Wow. Yeah. It's, it's fun. It's a fun time for standup comedy. But it's, it's literally the only thing that you can do without a committee. Because if you're gonna do a movie, you're gonna have to have actors, you're gonna have to have writers, you're gonna have to have executives, studio heads, all this shit. There's a lot of people that have their say in what's happening. Or at least have a conversation about it. There's no conversation with standup. It's literally just you, it's one person.

3 (13m 51s):
How do I make fun of this? What is, what's my angle on this? And then you work it out, you put it together and then you present it in front of people. And if they laugh, it's good. And if they don't laugh, it's not good. And you gotta figure out how to make it work.

4 (14m 5s):
No, that's about the, that's about the Ballsiest art form. It's

3 (14m 11s):
Just pure.

4 (14m 12s):
You are all alone.

3 (14m 13s):
Yeah. It's pure. I love it. And my club out here, what I also love is we, we make everybody put their phones in a bag. So instead of fucking taking pictures of everything and filming everything. Got it. Just fucking just be there. Just be there. Put that goddamn thing away. The phone's in a locked up in a yonder bag, the phone's off. Just experience a human moment. Have a good time.

4 (14m 33s):
I know a couple of guys that went to your club last night. They called me while I'm driving up today. And they said, have you been to his club? I said, not yet. And they said, and they're from la an agent from la. He said, they say things in there, you can't say in LA

3 (14m 46s):
Like comedy.

4 (14m 47s):
I said, was it funny? This is hilarious. Funniest thing I've ever seen. Every one of them.

3 (14m 50s):
Yeah. Well that's what it's supposed to be, you know, and Louis CK said, we built an Alamo. That's what he said. He says, essentially, because you've built the comedy Alamo. He goes, this is, we're in a war with the cyber world. And he goes, and you built us an Alamo.

4 (15m 5s):
Wow.

3 (15m 5s):
Yeah. But that's, you know, when I came out here, you know, and there wasn't really a comedy club and all these other comedians were moving out here because this was the only place we could do standup. It was during the pandemic. Right. It's like all the pieces fell together perfectly. It was like the universe opened up door after door at every step, and then all of a sudden we're here and there was like 15 of us. And we're working in these like little rock and roll clubs and EDM clubs and we're doing stand sold out shows. And the rest of the country's completely shut down. You can't even do standup indoors. And they all heard about Austin that we were all out here. And then Ron White's like, you gotta open up a club. And so I was like, okay, let's open up a fucking club.

3 (15m 46s):
And then we bought this building and started, we actually had a building that we bought before that was owned by a cult.

4 (15m 52s):
Really?

3 (15m 53s):
Yeah. There's a documentary on the cult called Holy Hell, you should watch it. It's pretty crazy. This guy came from West Hollywood and right after Waco, when the Cult Awareness Network started cracking down all these cults after Waco burned down and the, you know, feds killed everybody, they moved out to Austin. And the cult member, the cult leader changed his name, got a new name, moved to Austin, and built a theater so he could dance in front of his followers and I. And that was the theater I bought to start alo. Wow. Yeah.

4 (16m 23s):
You know, my cousins were the federal marshals in Waco, and they knew Crash. Oh wow. And, and they had told the, at TF they said we were just there three days ago. Like they could be whatever they are, but they, they're permitted up. And they were driving that I 35 and he looked up and saw these three choppers and he knew exactly what was going on. And by the time he got to the Koresh compound, those guys had already been killed. But he knew David. And, and he went up to the, oh, maybe it was a week or two later, I can't remember how long they held up in there, but he said, lemme just go talk to Koresh and, and see if I can get any of these women and kids out. And he did. And he walked up, knocked on the front door and took like 30 of 'em out.

3 (17m 6s):
Wow.

4 (17m 7s):
Before they just torched that place.

3 (17m 9s):
Yeah, they did torch that place. And they denied doing it too. There's video footage of the tanks,

4 (17m 14s):
The tank driving right there. Oh, what?

3 (17m 15s):
Us driving in and shooting flames in into the buildings. They just fucking lit everybody on fire. Yeah. Fuck you. Well, I don't even know what started it. It, no, it was like one fed showed up and then they got shot at, or some, something happened.

4 (17m 33s):
Well, I know four were killed in the first when they went to hit that place. I think like nine got shot. I know, we can pull it all up and look. But Yeah. You know, at that time there, there was this big panic about militias. Mm. You know, 'cause at the same time you got Ruby Ridge happened right around the same time. Right. You got all these and the FBI was just getting kind of not, or ATF kind of getting spanked in spots and, and they were trying to clean up their image or, or prevent whatever. And that was their mission. Du jour was like, get rid of all these militias. Yeah. And, and you know, surprising little overreach on the governments

3 (18m 9s):
Little overreach, but also like, every cult starts the same way. Seems like a good idea. We're gonna do things right. We're gonna, what's wrong with society? Let's fix it. Let's all commune together.

4 (18m 20s):
Well, they all start like this first you ha you need, you need a, an like a Jim Morrison adjacent looking Right. Wannabe rock star actor. Yes. Who's so wildly narcissistic and yet charming that he can convince him shit. Like, I need your wife. Yes. But I need you here to do the garden. Yes. And then he becomes his own God. And then he is gonna pick a date where all this shit's gonna go wrong. The world's gonna end, and I'm gonna show you salvation. That day's gonna pass. And then we need another problem until they wing that out and get a bunch of machine guns.

3 (18m 54s):
The guy out here, his name was Jaime Gomez, and he was a gay porn star and a hypnotist. That was the guy who started. So how do you think that worked out? So, so one guy in like 2000 or the early two thousands sent out, he left the cult and sent out a mass email that was like, Hey, this guy's been hypnotized me and fucking me for the last 10 years. And then everybody was like, I thought it was just me. That's the guy. But when he was young, when he got a,

4 (19m 24s):
See what I'll say, it looked like a model.

3 (19m 26s):
Oh. When he was young, he was beautiful. He was beautiful. He had like a chiseled body. He was a yoga instructor. I think that's how he started. He was an actor. He was in Rosemary's Baby. He was like an extra in Rosemary's Baby. But he, when he started the cult, it really just kind of started out as a, a yoga class. And he was very charismatic and convinced these people that there was a different way to live. And, and like, just like that. I'm sure you've seen Wild, wild Country. No, you've never seen that? No. Oh my God. It's fucking amazing. It's a Netflix series about this cult that took over a town in Oregon.

4 (19m 58s):
Yes. I do know what

3 (19m 59s):
This is. Yeah. And they poisoned everyone in the town. They shipped in homeless people so that they could vote. So they brought, they, they took homeless people and they brought 'em into the cult so that they would be a part of the community and they could vote. And then they just took over the fucking town. And then once they did that, they kicked the homeless people out. and it, it's, it's a wild documentary. If

4 (20m 16s):
I wrote that documentary screenplay, people would say that. That's ridiculous. Yeah.

3 (20m 20s):
Yeah. There's a lot of those.

4 (20m 22s):
Oh yeah. Oh yeah.

3 (20m 25s):
There's a lot of those. Well, that's the craziest thing about 1883, is that you don't have to do any dramatic embellishment. There's no, there doesn't have to be any, any fucking with the truth. It's, that is literally what went down. Those people literally came here. They do, you were telling me on the phone that what percentage of the people that that made the trek across couldn't even even speak English.

4 (20m 48s):
You know, it something like 40%. You know, they used to come in from, they they would come into and Of course what what our government was doing was we needed people for a multitude of reasons after the Civil War, so many of the workforce had been killed. You know, one point something million soldiers died that, that we know of. And we don't know how many other civilians. So we needed people, we needed people to settle the West. 'cause Manifest Destiny basically said, Hey, we, you know, there's all this land we bought from whoever, we bought it from France, I guess the Louisiana purchase. And we can't settle it. 'cause every time we, we try the Lakota or the Comanche kick the shit out of us.

4 (21m 30s):
So we should send a bunch of central Europeans and Eastern Europeans over there and let them get in the middle of it. And so in all of these, and you can, you can look up, if you were to put it into the computer, you can pull up all of these pamphlets they would put out in ads they would put out in newspapers in Romania and Norway. Obviously Ireland did it everywhere. Germany and said, come free land.

3 (21m 53s):
Yeah.

4 (21m 54s):
Come get your free land. And when I started researching it, you know, there were people that would come from areas where it was against the law to swim. They were not allowed to swim. Wow. There weren't, no one knew how to swim

3 (22m 7s):
It. It was against the law to swim. It

4 (22m 9s):
Was against the law to swim.

5 (22m 11s):
What the,

3 (22m 15s):
That seems so ins what seems so insane. What what really struck me I mean, I I did a lot of thinking about that show last night. Like, it, it ended, I did my binge, I ended the binge at like two o'clock in the morning. And you know, at nighttime, I do some of my most fucked up thinking because everyone is asleep. Yeah. In, in my house. It's just me and I and I. I generally do most of my writing when everyone's asleep. and I was just thinking that's 140 years ago. That's nothing. I'm 56 years old. When I was in high school, it was in 1983, so that was a hundred years ago. I was a sophomore in high school. So I was a hundred years is nothing. A hundred years before that.

3 (22m 56s):
You make your way across the country on a fucking wagon and you get free land. Yeah. A hundred years. That's so short a period of time. It's so hard for us to really appreciate how recent that is and how, how fucking insane the change in this country over such a short period of time has been

4 (23m 20s):
Meteoric,

3 (23m 21s):
Meteoric,

4 (23m 22s):
Nothing like it. I just read something in the last day or two that, and I'm gonna get it wrong, but 1937 is closer to 1984 than 2023 as to 84 or something like that. Yeah. And if you think about the Yeah. The gap between 1984 and 2023 and then what 84 was like I was alive. You were alive. To now it doesn't seem like that dramatic a, a change. Obviously there is internet, but you still had cars. You had phones, you couldn't take 'em with you, but you had 'em. But 1937, we haven't even, we haven't even made penicillin yet.

4 (24m 2s):
Right. That's just 40 years.

3 (24m 4s):
Yeah. Trench warfare. Yeah. Yeah. World War I. Yeah.

4 (24m 8s):
No, these, these, they came over here. They didn't speak the language. They knew nothing about the land. Knew nothing about the water had No, it did. By the way you can be rest assured it did not say in that advertisement, in the Romanian times, there's other people who already lived there who will kill you when you show up and didn't mention any of that. They didn't hear about the Indians until they got to Galveston. And you know, they're buying their supplies and you need a gun. Well, would you need a gun? Well, the Indians, the who whatcha talking about who are Indians? Well, you're gonna find out.

3 (24m 37s):
Yeah. That was a, a part of Empire of the Summer Moon, you know, that these folks had just established these homesteads and had no idea. And the Comanches would show up and just slaughter 'em. They had no idea. They had no idea. Yeah. That there was even a, a concern and they had to figure it out along the way.

4 (24m 55s):
Yeah. And the, you know, and you read in that book and it, and from a military standpoint, it's such a, just an impressive achievement that Noona decided he was gonna raid all the way to Galveston. And he marched through burned Austin went all the way to Galveston, everybody got on their boats, went out on their boats and watched him burn Galveston. Then they went in and looted all the stores and found these parasols, you know, you could sit there and block the sun. And the Comanche thought that's the fricking smartest thing. I wish we'd had fabric to do that with. So all the Braves took these parachutes, and when they rode off, there's thousands of Comanche warriors with parasols of all these different colors, blocks getting the sun off their shoulders,

3 (25m 39s):
Running away with umbrellas. Yeah. That's insane.

4 (25m 42s):
But what a, what a terrifying visual that would be.

3 (25m 44s):
Oh yeah. Oh, I mean, I had no idea until I read Empire of the Summer Moon and then the author come in, what is his name again? SG Gwen s Is that it? Great, great fucking guy. And he found out when he moved to Texas, like he, he moved here and then was researching Texas history. A sequin. A sequin. And when he moved here and he was researching Texas, then he was like, oh my God. Like, how, how do I not know about all this? How do I not know what this happened? How do I know, not know about the Texas Rangers and how they were established and why they they needed them and what, what went down?

4 (26m 21s):
Yeah. It was the, it was the Wild

3 (26m 22s):
West. Yeah. Well, it's one of the reasons why Texas is such a crazy place. It's like this was kind of the last stand.

4 (26m 28s):
Yeah. And, and Texas was its own nation for, you know, 14 years, 13 years. and it, and it's still, you know, that independence is still pretty embedded in it.

3 (26m 37s):
Did they wanna put it back on the ballot to succeed

4 (26m 39s):
Every year? This experiment hasn't worked.

3 (26m 44s):
Yeah. Well, what's crazy is when you think about the United States only being established in 1776 and how recent that is in human history, but the idea of a new country being established today seems insane. Like there's no one no way. Impossible. No,

4 (26m 60s):
It's not gonna, you know, they, there's part of Oregon wants to secede and Yeah. And, and join Idaho. There's, there's, there's a section up there around Humboldt County and, and up in that area in California, they want the same thing. And, and it's understandable because you have people who, you know, you take the eastern half of Oregon, virtually all of them are in some form of agriculture. Right? Right. They're ranching or they're farming or they're doing something. Same with, with, with that part of Northern California. Right. You're doing timber, you're growing something, whether it's wheat or whether it's whatever, you're doing something agricultural. And then you come to these big urban centers and where people do not understand where their food comes from. Right. I read an article, this is when I lived in LA as an actor, and there was some uproar, some cheerleader had gone hunting and killed a deer or something.

4 (27m 50s):
And the picture made it in the paper or somehow made it somewhere. And there was this massive, people went nuts. And I'm flipping through the paper and, and I'm reading the letters to the editor that's kind of bear in the front. And they were all about this girl. And there's a picture of her and one of them said that all hunters should be killed. How dare they go out and kill that animal? Why can't they just go get their food at the grocery store where it's made? No, someone got mad enough to write that letter and wrote it and reread it and sent it, and then it was printed.

4 (28m 34s):
Not from a sense of irony from that paper. I doubt and, and I remember thinking, God, people don't even know where it comes from. They have no idea what it takes to put food on a table, any kind of food. No. I don't care if you're vegan or not. Right.

3 (28m 46s):
Had no idea. It's all been given to you and all you have to do is work and then spend your money. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I've had conversations with people while they're eating meat saying, I can never hunt. Like, I don't know how you do it. Like what are you talking about? You're eating meat. You just hired a supermarket hitman. Yeah. You just ex

4 (29m 4s):
You just exported the execution.

3 (29m 5s):
Yeah. It's, it's, it's, we're so detached. And that was why it was fascinating to watch this massive uptick during the pandemic where, where the food supply got cut off for a while and you know, it was, yeah. It was very weird. And a lot of people got into hunting, a lot of people got interested in it and there was a big uptick

4 (29m 25s):
Or started to, or started to want to take some responsibility. Yeah. Some kind of control measure, grow food, whether they get chickens in their backyard, whether they, they come to a Ranch and there's plenty of places where you can buy it direct to consumer. You know, when that hit me. Yeah. I've got three steers and two deer in the freezer, you know? Right. I've got 60 chickens. I've got a greenhouse. I didn't Yeah. I didn't, I didn't miss a beat.

3 (29m 50s):
Yeah. Well, that's the way to live if you could. Yeah. But most people are like, well, and not everybody can live that way. Right. Figure out how you can

4 (29m 58s):
Y yeah, you can, you can't. I did it in LA

3 (30m 1s):
Did

4 (30m 1s):
You? For five years. I went, everything ate was wild caught. Or it was grown from, I bought it from the farm if it was a vegetable fruit and in Cal and, and in LA it really wasn't that hard to do.

3 (30m 14s):
Farmer's markets and stuff

4 (30m 15s):
Like that. Farmer's markets for heck, you could even get, you know, you could go get wild caught fish at the farmer's market. Right. You could go get what farm grew this well, there's your kale or whatever you want. It's all right there. Like it's, it was actually not that difficult. And I'd come back to Texas and hunt for a weekend and that was by, you know, go shoot three deer. And that's a year's worth of food. Right. Eat three animals for a year.

3 (30m 38s):
Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's best case scenario if you could pull that off. But most people are just so disconnected from it and so connected to the urban world where no one's growing anything. Everything has to be brought in by trucks. and I was reading this, this story, it's a book called Dissolving Illusions. And it's all about the introduction of vaccines and it's about the pandemic diseases of the early 20th century. And they were talking about just the horrific conditions that people lived in, in these urban cities before cars. 'cause they, there was no buses. So how are you getting food? How are you getting vegetables? How are you getting all these things into these cities? These people lived with terrible nutrition.

3 (31m 17s):
Basically starved in death, living in places where there's outhouses that were shared by thousands of people. Everyone's stuffed in these tenement buildings. They're all breathing congested air. Everyone's getting diseases. There's no, no drugs to treat them, no antibiotics to treat them. And everyone's fucked. Yeah, yeah,

4 (31m 40s):
Yeah. No, you know, these, and it's been that way by the way, for 1200 years. As soon as massive urban areas, you know, as soon as they sprout it up, I mean, look at, look at the plague. Yeah. That's what that is. That is it. That's where it comes from.

3 (31m 56s):
From

4 (31m 56s):
That's a flea borne illness that you get because you're living in such close proximity to rats.

3 (32m 3s):
Yeah.

4 (32m 3s):
And why are there so many rats? Well 'cause there's that much vermin and filth and waste for them to feast on.

3 (32m 10s):
Yeah. I mean it's nature's way of balancing things out. Nature's like, well, this is a fucking problem. Whatever you guys are doing here is not the way to do it. So Yeah. Have fun with this. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (32m 21s):
It's also with the, with the Native Americans, you know, you look at the commands, you look at any of them, it was the disease, you know, when, when, from the first pilgrims, all these things that, that Europeans brought over I mean, it just decimated. I think cholera killed 60% of the Comanche.

3 (32m 36s):
Yeah. They said that 90% of the people killed in North America were killed by diseases. 90% of the Native Americans. Yeah. Yeah. And that, that story hasn't been told properly. You know, and that's what I, I really appreciated about 1883. It's like you, you talked about I mean, this was like the end of the Native American empire essentially. This was when there was still a little bit of buffalo left. There were still, you know, they were moving Indians to reservations then the Indians that were out, they were resisting it, you know, and it's just, and then these people were trying to make their way in this fucking wagon train across the country. What, what percentage of those people died that we're trying to do that

4 (33m 18s):
I mean don don't know that there's any, anywhere along the Oregon Trail. You could, you can drive along or, you know, there's markers just everywhere. Everywhere. And especially the further up you get into Wyoming and the further you start getting through like the lander cutoff and South Pass, then they're just, and that's the ones that, you know, that got a marker. Yeah. So it's, how do you know? Right. You know, the Handcar, the Mormon church brought a lot of people out and they didn't have a lot of money, enough money to give them full wagons, even though that's what they'd promised. And so they made these hand carts that people would pull from wherever they took off from somewhere in Ohio to try and get to, to Utah.

4 (34m 2s):
And so these people pulled them by hand. They'd put their wife and their gear and their kids or whatever. And then they'd pull 'em these two wheeled carts like cha without a horse. And you know, one winter they left too late and got caught in the winter. And the whole trick was, if you didn't make it to this certain spot in Wyoming by July 4th, you were not gonna make it. You were gonna get caught in the past and you're gonna die. And something like 25,000 people died in one year. Just mind numbing statistics.

3 (34m 31s):
Insane. Yeah. Insane. And it's, it's so interesting that the, the early films on the West, they were, they never covered that. The early films on the West were like these really sort of shallow surface films that were fun movies, you know, Cowboys versus Indians, the spaghetti westerns and that kind of stuff. But no one had any sort of real understanding of what actually went down.

4 (34m 60s):
No, you didn't. The notion of getting free land that you could go farm with, by the way, nothing. You're gonna go somewhere with nothing. Like there's no stores. You're gonna have to make everything. You have to figure it all out on your own. Who would choose that? Not a successful blacksmith. Not somebody that's got a nice, comfortable home in Maryland or wherever. And why, why, why would you do that? You have to have no other option. Right. Right. All the people that came over from, from whatever European nation they came from, they didn't come for an adventure. Right. They came because they were fucking starving. My family came over from Ireland because of the potato famine. They didn't, they didn't want to. They had to.

4 (35m 40s):
Right. They were dying. So they had to come. So that's why everyone came Desperation. Like desperation is what settled the west. Fueled by a manifest destiny. Which was, which was a cruel, very cruel, you know, insidious idea that a bunch of politicians had that says, Hey, we can either send the army out there and just go to war. And we've been doing that and we've been getting the shit handed to us. 'cause the Lakota were until the repeating rifle came around. The Lakota and the Comanche. Yeah. The Arapaho. Even the I mean the, we did not have their skill level on a horse. There, there were arrows were actually more effective than our single shop muskets. Like they were a superior army and, and stayed that way.

4 (36m 21s):
It wasn't until we started sacking villages when the Braves were gone, when their soldiers were gone. We, when that dirty shit started, then it started turning the tide. And then when we killed the food source, that was the end of it.

3 (36m 31s):
Yeah. Which is part of the wiping outta the buffalo. Yeah. I mean it was a commodity for sure. but it was also, there was a concerted effort to cut off their food source.

4 (36m 40s):
It was, but it was also, you know, there was a demand. The buffalo tongue was the number one delicacy in New York City. Isn't that

3 (36m 50s):
Crazy? The

4 (36m 51s):
Tongue. And the tongue,

3 (36m 52s):
Which nobody wants anymore. Oh

4 (36m 54s):
No. And then they sold all the, they sold all the, the buffalo skins to France and they made giant, massive, silly robes.

3 (37m 4s):
Well, at one point in time, the richest man, one of the richest men in the world was he dealt in beaver pelts.

4 (37m 10s):
Yeah. don. Don't doubt it. There

3 (37m 12s):
There was fucking beaver everywhere. They wiped out most of the beaver in this country. Yeah.

4 (37m 15s):
You know, but they've come back.

3 (37m 17s):
Yeah, they've come back. Yeah. But not nearly to where they were.

4 (37m 19s):
No, but they've come back. It's pretty imp I mean. It's pretty impressive how much they've come back. And it's a pretty keystone species. So wherever they are, you know, they build enough dams and they create a pond. It creates a wetland.

3 (37m 31s):
Have you ever eaten beaver? No. It's good.

4 (37m 33s):
That's what I hear. Steve Ella cooked it. The tail was a, was a, a delicacy.

3 (37m 37s):
Yeah. The tail tail's disgusting. We ate the tail. It's just all fat. They just were starving and they needed fat. We, maybe we didn't cook it right, but Ella cooked it as best as he could. But we, he made like a pot roast out of the beaver hams. Yeah. It was very good. Really? It was like really good Beef. Really? It was delicious. It was surprisingly good. Like, not like, oh, I could eat this, but like, I want more. Like, this is fucking great. It was really good. Really? Yeah.

4 (38m 1s):
No, I think the most exotic thing I ever ate. and it wasn't, it was kind of a similar meeting with their servant situation on this Ranch outside of Stanford, Texas. And they, they, we barbecued up a bunch of armadillo.

3 (38m 15s):
How was that?

4 (38m 17s):
I was so fricking hungry. It's, it seemed good to me. I, you know, this is well before I knew they had leprosy. I, I checked everything. I'm good. I'm 40 years in and I'm

3 (38m 26s):
Fine. Is there a temperature you have to kill, kill leprosy at? Where you cook the food too? Like trinos?

4 (38m 32s):
Well, look, when you smoke the, you smoke it for like 12 hours. So I think anything says just kills

3 (38m 36s):
Everything. Yeah. What does this, what does the armadillo taste like?

4 (38m 39s):
It kind of taste like pork.

3 (38m 41s):
Really? Yeah. Like javelina then. Yeah. Yeah. Which just tastes a lot. Well, they even look like pork.

4 (38m 46s):
Yeah. Well they are pork.

3 (38m 47s):
They're a ecky, right? Yeah. It's like cousin of pig.

4 (38m 50s):
Yeah. Some somewhere. And they crossbred, I think with the feral hogs a bunch.

3 (38m 54s):
Oh, have they? Really?

4 (38m 54s):
I think, I think

3 (38m 56s):
I shot one last year and it turned it into chorizo. It's edible.

4 (38m 60s):
Yeah.

3 (38m 60s):
It's not great. Yeah. But

4 (39m 1s):
It's edible. It's a feral hog. I'm not, you don't want to eat those feral

3 (39m 4s):
Hogs. I've eaten a lot of feral hogs. Yeah. I shot one at Toone, turned it into sausage. Did you? It's good. Yeah.

4 (39m 10s):
Those things were a problem. I mean they are, they're

3 (39m 12s):
A real problem out

4 (39m 13s):
Here. Oh my gosh. And, and the destruction that they, that they reap on the, on the ecosystem. I mean, that's the reason the Bob White quail population is just plummeted. Rattlesnakes have stopped rattling

3 (39m 25s):
Because of the hogs. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. One of the first things that happened when I moved out here is Ted Nugent invited me to shoot hogs from a helicopter. I was like, I guess I'm in Texas.

4 (39m 37s):
Welcome.

3 (39m 39s):
Come shoot hogs out of a helicopter. They just gunning them down. Have you ever seen a pocalypse now?

4 (39m 47s):
No. But is that, is that with the a

3 (39m 49s):
Tanner now? No, A YPs now is Ted Nugent. And this guy that calls himself Pig man who has a show on the, one of the Sportsman's channel, the outdoor channel. They shot like 250 plus pigs in an afternoon. And they all did it outta helicopters. And it's like da da da, like flying. It's fucking, it's insane. And you watch it like, how is this legal? Like, I guess it's legal. 'cause you have to do it that way. They, they, they have so many pigs. Like, here it is this Oh yeah. This is a forklifts now it's all slow mos of head shots.

3 (40m 29s):
That's pig man

6 (40m 30s):
Everywhere. I don't wanna put a number on it. I'm having a hell of a time. I got guys scattered everywhere. All on dead digs. Gutting them, loading them in rangers, taking them. Feed a whole lot of people.

3 (40m 40s):
That's the other thing. The hunters for the hungry I mean there's, yeah.

4 (40m 43s):
That's a really good that a really, it's amazing

3 (40m 45s):
Organization. Yeah. They shoot an incredible amount of these pigs and then feed them to people. and it, it is good man. There's a, there's a guy out here named Jesse Griffiths who owns a great restaurant called Ddue in Austin. And he runs a school where he teaches people how to hunt. He teaches them first how to shoot rifles, then how to hunt. Then they hunt hogs. Teaches 'em how to butcher 'em and cook 'em. And he's an amazing chef. And this guy I mean, if, if you think that wild hogs taste like shit, talk to this guy. And

4 (41m 18s):
Because he, he'll knock it out.

3 (41m 19s):
Oh my God. Oh my God. Some of the best meals I've ever eaten in my life. He, he cooked diver duck, which everybody says they're disgusting. I've only had it once. Yeah. I've only had it once from him. 'cause they say the diver ducks eat all the shit that's at the bottom, all the muck that's at the bottom. And most people say they taste disgusting. He cooked it. It was one of the best foods I've ever eaten in my life. Really? Yeah. He just knows how to do it. Right. He's like, it's not that these things taste bad, it's just people don't have the knowledge of how to prepare them correctly.

4 (41m 47s):
Well, if you think about it, you know, you can go to any gun store or pawn shop and buy a 30-year-old Remington 700 with a scope on it for four oh bucks. A box of bullets is gonna cost you $30 license is gonna cost you $35. You can go shoot a hog, you can go shoot a, a deer. Which someone's gotta manage 'em. Right. The ecosystem's demolished. So there's nothing else doing it. So they're just gonna overpopulate and disease. And you can create a year's worth of meat for 600 bucks. Yeah.

3 (42m 23s):
It's incredible. And then

4 (42m 24s):
The next year you cut it down to 300 and then the next year you cut it down to one 50.

3 (42m 28s):
Yeah. And it's fun.

4 (42m 30s):
Yeah.

3 (42m 31s):
Yeah. It's a fun thing to do. Yeah. And it's a very satisfying

4 (42m 34s):
And youre taking, you're taking responsibility for your own, for your own food.

3 (42m 37s):
Yeah. And still there's people that think there's something wrong with that. But that's how disconnected society

4 (42m 42s):
Is. Well, that's the look. I think one of the most absurd positions anyone can take is they're a vegan for an ethical reason. It's preposterous. You could do it for a medical reason, even though I don't know what that reason would be. But maybe you can't process, you know, meat. You can't process proteins like that. But to do it from an ethical reason is absurd. And the reason I say that is I have plowed a field. It is carnage. It is 12 feet of carnage. And every single plant that you eat is going to be tilled into the ground in some capacity. So you're gonna kill everything

3 (43m 19s):
When

4 (43m 20s):
You plow out. Field does that

3 (43m 20s):
Famous conversation that Kevin Costner has in

4 (43m 23s):
Yellowstone and I wrote, that's why I wrote it, was people have to understand you have to take ownership.

3 (43m 28s):
That same thing Ted Nugent has saying, said this on this podcast. Yeah. He said, if you want to kill the most things become a vegan. Yeah. A hundred percent. If you're thinking about individual life, if you don't think that one life equals one life, if you think that small things aren't as valuable as large things, that's a totally different discussion. And that's a weird discussion. But if you think that all life is sacred, well what about the lives of the ground? Nesting birds, fawns. Yeah. What about the lives of rodents, insects? All those things are getting demolished.

4 (44m 0s):
The average organic avocado farm in central California is going to kill, on average around 19,000 ground squirrels a year. That's not counting the billions of bees. 'cause they're gonna bring the bees up from Brazil to pollinate the, the trees and then they're gonna fucking die. They're not sending 'em back anywhere. They're not keeping them in some No. They're gone. They're gonna spray with some organic, which is probably just like compressed cayenne pepper. They're gonna spray the trees, they're gonna kill every bug, every plant. Everything. All you gotta do is drive I five through the San Joaquin Valley and you won't see, you'll see plenty of almonds, you'll see plenty of all these different groves.

4 (44m 42s):
You won't see any birds. You won't see anything else. Yeah. Because they fucking killed them all.

3 (44m 47s):
Yeah. That's a hard pill for a lot of people to swallow that think they're doing something that's ethically correct. Well,

4 (44m 52s):
You, if you look anywhere in, in the ecosystem, take man out of it. Virtually everything is, is living at the expense of another organism. To the degree that if a certain weed grows up over the grass, it's killing the grass. The tree grows up. This little, little sapling grows up over the grass. It's killing the grass. The grass grows up before the weeds. It kills the weeds, it kills the flowers, kills this. Everything is in competition with everything else. There is not a vegan fish. There's not a vegetarian fish. Every single fish, every frog they are, they're eating, they're eating another organism to survive. Every one of them. And that's what we did for as long as whenever we split from apes, that's what we did.

4 (45m 35s):
Apes still do it. They talk about, oh, they eat fruit. They eat fruit till they get ahold of those little fricking panzer monkeys. Yeah. Then they go to town. Those chimpanzees, they didn't

3 (45m 42s):
Even know about that until that David Attenborough documentary. Yeah. You ever see that one? Yeah. Where they're eating the

4 (45m 47s):
Eating the monkeys. The Oh, they go to war. If you ever wonder where our violent street comes from. Oh yeah. Watch chimpanzees. Yeah.

3 (45m 55s):
Have you seen Chimp Nation? No. That's another great Netflix series. Yeah. Fuck. Incredible. They, they kill each other. They, they and I asked the guy, I go, how often do they kill monkeys? He goes, we really didn't show how many times they killed monkeys. 'cause they did. They do it so often. Oh yeah. I mean it's literally their preferred food. Yeah.

4 (46m 12s):
They kill, they're kill monkey Monkey gonna eat the leaves and the fruits and everything. So they need that protein.

3 (46m 16s):
Yeah. They, they eat the fruit if, 'cause it's easy. Yeah. But if they can find monkeys, they go after monkeys. Yeah. And they eat 'em alive. They just start chewing on 'em. There's a, there's a video of this monkey. He's like screaming while this chimp is eating him from the hips down. Just you see his little face and just looks so much like us to watch him just, just get eaten alive by a chimp who also looks a lot like us. It's just so fucked. Yeah. That's, that's the real nature. That's not vegan nature. That's not this bullshit utopian artificial paradise that people have created in their mind that they're doing if they're eating vegan. It's just not true. Unless you're growing all of your own food in your yard.

3 (46m 57s):
Unless you have a contained environment where you're composting and using mulch and you, you're making sure that everything that you grow, you're picking it yourself. You're just fencing it off to keep squirrels from eating it. If that's not the case, you're involved in murder.

4 (47m 13s):
But even then, even then, You don't think you're gonna have a What happens when the grasshoppers come? Right. And they'll get through that fence. Oh

3 (47m 20s):
Yeah. And they'll ate your crops. You're gonna have to kill the grasshoppers.

4 (47m 23s):
You're gonna kill the grasshoppers. And then what are you gonna do when the squirrel gets in? You can't fence off your trees.

3 (47m 28s):
Yeah.

4 (47m 28s):
So what are you gonna do? Well, you're either gonna give away a lot of your crop, which you're not gonna want to do, or you're gonna come up with a way to, or are you gonna run the squirrel off? Okay, well then you just killed it 'cause you ran it out of its habitat. So it just dies a slower death. Yeah. So that you don't, we we don't get to exist without another organism fueling our existence. Period.

3 (47m 51s):
I know. It's such a hard thing for people to accept.

4 (47m 53s):
Well, I think it's because you, they're so dissociated. You know, I talked about it in Wind River at the very end when he's given this speech to don. Don't know if you've seen that one or not. I didn't. Okay. So he, he, this guy, it takes place in the wilds of Wyoming and there's a young woman who's an FBI investigator and she comes and she, she's investigating the death of a Native American woman, culminates in a big gunfight and, and she gets wounded, but she doesn't, she doesn't die. He visits her in the hospital Jeremy Renner's character, who's from this area. And he says, you know, luck doesn't live in, in the wilderness.

4 (48m 33s):
It lives in the city. You know, whether or not your car is the one that gets carjacked. Whether you know someone, someone's on their cell phone when you're walking through the crosswalk, that's luck. But out here you survive or you surrender. You know, wolves don't kill unlucky deer. They kill the weak ones. Yeah. And that's,

3 (48m 54s):
That's reality. That's the reality. That's the reality of our life. So

4 (48m 57s):
When you can walk from your condo to wan and buy your $19 almond butter. Yeah. And never ask yourself. Now I can tell you, I can tell you exactly right now how much water it takes in a state with no water to make one almond. Right. It takes three gallons.

3 (49m 17s):
Yeah.

4 (49m 18s):
So if you want to AMD it out, one almond takes three gallons in the house. And how many almonds does one almond tree have? 10,000. We'll do the math.

3 (49m 26s):
It's nuts.

4 (49m 27s):
Do the math. Nothing comes without, there is an expense.

3 (49m 30s):
Nothing makes me crack up more than the stop oil people when they're blocking the highway with clothes made with oil. Like ev they have rubber.

4 (49m 39s):
This is, this is, this is one of my like, drive

3 (49m 42s):
Me. It's fucking insane. and

4 (49m 44s):
It's, I'm making, I'm making a TV show about this. Are you right now? Yeah. Called Landman with Billy Bob Thornton. Oh wow. About the oil industry and about energy.

3 (49m 50s):
I love Billy Bob

4 (49m 51s):
Thornton. That's a gangster.

3 (49m 52s):
I love that dude. Gangster.

4 (49m 54s):
He's

3 (49m 54s):
Great. Yeah. And

4 (49m 55s):
Doesn't give a fuck. Does not give a fuck.

3 (49m 59s):
And he was great in 1883 too. Oh yeah. He's great. I love that. Dude.

4 (50m 3s):
Showed up for one day. He goes, what am I doing? Doing this great.

3 (50m 7s):
Just perfect. Wicked.

4 (50m 8s):
Yeah, wicked. That's, that's when I decided, I said, I'm, I got something for you. Nice. I think there's something we can do, but people don't understand. You know, they're mandating all these electric vehicles in California. 75% of California's electricity comes from fossil fuels. About 15% comes from wind and alternative energy. And then they still get a little from nuclear. I don't know why everyone got off nuclear. That was like the,

3 (50m 33s):
That's the, that's the best thing for the environment. Yeah. Believe it or not,

4 (50m 37s):
We, we are, I spoke when I was researching Landman, I, I, I reached out to some guys on, MIT has a climate change board. They've got a bunch of scientists that are, you know, all they're doing is trying to figure out what is our next energy source. Like, what is a reliable energy source that's clean and cold? Fusion is pretty much the thing that they've all penned is this is gonna be the deal. But they think we're 30 to 40 years from having it to where it can even generate enough power right now, for the first time ever, they were able to create electricity with a, through coal fusion that created more electricity than it took to create it.

4 (51m 20s):
Like, so they just net zeroed it. So how long before they can make enough of it, they can make it efficient enough that someone can charge us for it and it's still affordable to us. How far off and then the infrastructure,

3 (51m 32s):
What is, what's the method of cold fusion? Like I don't even know how it's done.

4 (51m 38s):
I mean it's the same. It's simple. Can

3 (51m 39s):
You Google that? Google like, how is col because I know there was a cold fusion thing a few years ago, but they decided that it wasn't, they, they, they couldn't repeat it, but I didn't know that they've actually pulled it off. Now

4 (51m 53s):
It's essentially you're splitting an atom, but you're not, you're, you're not, you're splitting it in a manner that doesn't seem to create the waste. and I think that's the reason they're backing off nuclear. They know something about the waste that, that they don't wanna tell us. Well, it lasts forever.

3 (52m 6s):
It lasts forever. And you dig holes in the ground. You gotta cement it in there. Like there's spots in Nevada where they have these like fucking trenches filled with nuclear waste. Yeah. But there's also emerging technologies about converting nuclear waste into batteries. There was something about that that there, there was some sort of technique that they were developing that was gonna be able to take all that stuff and convert it into batteries. But we have a, we have a, like a reasonable fear of radiation, obviously. Yeah. Because it's, you know, we, we know like you, you chernobyl's fucked. It's gonna be fucked forever. Fukushima's fucked. It's fucked forever. Yeah. It's fucked for as long as there's ever been people alive, it'll be fucked 3, 4, 5 times that.

3 (52m 50s):
Yeah. In the future to be fucked. And then we also know that, you know, they haven't been real forthcoming with some of the dangers of it. Like the depleted uranium rounds they used during the Iraq war and all these soldiers came back and they had Gulf War syndrome. Yep. And that was their, their, their babies were born all fucked up and no one wanted to take responsibility for it. But there's been some documentaries done on it. and I think the consensus is that a lot of those cases were probably due to the depleted uranium rounds they use. 'cause apparently those fucking things are just lethal. They just go right through tanks. Yeah. Like de depleted uranium rounds other shit. But the problem is then these fucking soldiers would go to the battlefield where all this stuff had gone down and they're breathing in and they're taking, they're absorbing all this fucking radiation and they weren't warned.

3 (53m 38s):
Well

4 (53m 38s):
Look at all the, look at all the, in the fifties when people used to go to Vegas and sit on the roof and watch nuclear testing. I had a professor in college that was one of those guys and got like umpteen kind of fucking different cancers and died from

3 (53m 54s):
It. Wasn't that the story about John Wayne? Yeah. John Wayne. Well John Ford,

4 (53m 58s):
All of 'em died of cancer. 'cause they kept shooting in Monument Valley where they were fucking setting all these things up. Exactly.

3 (54m 2s):
But did anybody like definitively connect John Wayne and his cancer to that? 'cause I think I had read something about many people that worked on those films also also got similar cancer.

4 (54m 14s):
Yeah.

3 (54m 14s):
Yeah. But I mean John Wayne looked like he smoked cigarettes and drank a lot too. It's like

4 (54m 18s):
I heard the guy smoke five packs a day. Yeah, he,

3 (54m 20s):
That guy was

4 (54m 21s):
Partying a little. He was on like a Second Pig's heart. He'd had like eight different organ transplants in the late sixties. He was actually kind of a tank that he survived all. Did you really have a pig heart? Yes.

3 (54m 30s):
They really did that with him. Yeah. No.

4 (54m 32s):
Yeah. I think I made a joke. They did joke about it on the Oscars. Whoa.

3 (54m 36s):
They've actually successfully transplanted pig hearts.

4 (54m 38s):
I'm Yeah. I mean have him, how

3 (54m 40s):
Did I not know this? I know They've done it with a friend of mine has a a another person's heart.

4 (54m 47s):
Yeah.

3 (54m 48s):
He had a heart attack. He had a heart transplant. Pig

4 (54m 50s):
Valve pig valves. Oh

3 (54m 51s):
P valves. Same shit. Oh, I knew they were doing that. Yeah, they do artificial valves. my friend Everlast from House of Pain. Yeah. He can take a microphone and put it to his chest and you can hear his fake valve going like tick, tick, tick,

4 (55m 2s):
Tick, tick, tick. Really? Yeah.

3 (55m 4s):
It's weird. It's weird. He does it. You're like, yo, you got a fucking machine inside you keeping you alive.

4 (55m 10s):
So does it run on the energy of his own body?

3 (55m 12s):
It's a valve. Right? So I guess it runs as the heart pumps, you know, it opens and closes Just like a, the biological valve that you're born with. Yeah. But his is artificial.

4 (55m 21s):
Wow.

3 (55m 22s):
Yeah. I think it's, I don't wanna speak outta turn, but I think it's titanium or something like that. Like something like very durable and like I know they're using titanium for other body parts. They're using it for articulating neck discs. So when people get bulging discs that turn to herniating discs and then they get degradation, whether it's pinching on the nerves, they have two options off. Oftentimes they'll either fuse you Yeah. Which is could be fucking horrible. Yes. Or they now they'll give you an alternative, which is a articulating disc. And guys have had those, like Al Jermaine Sterling had one of those done and then went on to defend the Bantamweight title in the UFC. Really? And defended it more than anybody and just fucking dominated people.

3 (56m 3s):
Yeah. Until he lost to Sean O'Malley. He's like, I think he defended the Batam weight title more than anybody. Really? And really he won the title and then after he won the title, he, he got knee in the head during the title fight. It was kind of a bad deal. Like he won the title by disqualification. So a lot of people hated him and they discredited him. Then he got this operation, had this disc replaced his neck and then they had the rematch and he fucking dominated the dude really with a fake disc in his neck. So it really was fucking him up. The children of John Wayne, Susan Hayward and Dick Powell fear that Fallout killed their parents.

7 (56m 34s):
This is from 1980 article. Wow.

3 (56m 37s):
19 280 20

7 (56m 39s):
Cast members. It says 91 had contracted cancer.

3 (56m 42s):
Wow. Oh my god. And this is pre-internet kids. And

4 (56m 46s):
That's at that point too. 1980. So

3 (56m 48s):
Right. But this is, you gotta think, this is like, it was difficult to track down this kind of information back then. And then to put it out on People Magazine. That's pretty wild.

7 (56m 58s):
It was because of where they were doing St. George

3 (57m 2s):
Only 137 miles from atomic testing range at Yuca flat Nevada. Yeah. They just blew shit up out there. Have you ever seen the map? There's a video of the map of the United States and it's a, it's actually the map of the world, but a lot of 'em happen in the United States and it shows all the nuclear tests that are happening all around the world. Like when they first did it, like it shows the Trinity bomb boom and then it's like boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. And then it gets into the fifties, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Watch this. Go to the first one.

7 (57m 32s):
This goes on for 15 minutes. I know.

3 (57m 34s):
But it's amazing. We don't, we don't have to watch the full 15 minutes. Can you like triple speed it or something? Doesn't it do that? I can. You did it the other day, right? Playback speed. Normal two

7 (57m 44s):
Best

3 (57m 44s):
I do. Okay, so just watch a little bit of this. So the first one goes off, boom, boom, they're doing 'em in the ocean.

4 (57m 53s):
'cause that's great for the fish

7 (57m 54s):
And also at the top, we'll tell you who's doing them. So like the first couple are

3 (57m 57s):
Us, right? Five of 'em. So we've, we're five in, now it's the United States, eight United States. We're like, I'm not sure if it works. Let's keep doing it. These are all in the ocean by the way, the so far the ones we've seen now Russia starts popping off. Oh shit. Russia's got one. Boom. They did a test and we're like, oh bitch, we're gonna have to do more tests now You guys think you got a nuclear bomb motherfucker. We got 500,000 of them. 16, 17. Now by this time in 1951, the United States has 24 and Russia has three. Wow. This is 1952 I mean here now. Now the United States has 39 now people look at this. We go up to 45 like quick and then Russia goes to eight. They're trying to keep up.

4 (58m 35s):
Australia snuck some in there. Oh,

3 (58m 36s):
Did they really? Yeah. Look at that. They got three or,

4 (58m 38s):
Or Great Britain did. They just decided to set it off in Australia.

3 (58m 41s):
Yeah, that's probably what they did. Look at this. United States has got 66 now we're just popping off. So now these are all happening in Nevada. You're seeing them all pop off in the United States so far. At least in that same area, which has gotta be Nevada. See they're, look, they're all popping off in that same area. Wow. It's all one. We just nuuk in one spot of the country and then we let gambling in. That

7 (59m 3s):
Was 40 in like a year, you know.

3 (59m 5s):
Oh my God. It's so insane. We talk about

4 (59m 7s):
All these

3 (59m 8s):
39. Yeah, right

7 (59m 9s):
Here. October, 1956. Right. 87. Oh,

3 (59m 13s):
That's so insane. And no one could tell them No, here's the thing. It's like they are the literally the people running the world back then.

7 (59m 21s):
And by March of 58 we're at 1 21. Whoa.

3 (59m 25s):
How

4 (59m 25s):
Nuts. So question. So we're setting off thermonuclear weapons, getting, and, and pretty soon here probably some hydrogen bombs.

7 (59m 33s):
Here you go. 67. We're at 510. Jesus

3 (59m 36s):
Christ.

4 (59m 37s):
And we talk about things so

3 (59m 39s):
Insane.

4 (59m 39s):
We talk about things that warm the planet.

3 (59m 41s):
Yeah. That did a lot of warming for sure.

4 (59m 43s):
I've heard no one's mentioned. The half a a thousand nuclear bombs we set off. Here's

3 (59m 50s):
The question, I know that the, the fallout from like meltdowns when reactors meltdown, that's pretty significant. That's a big deal. But how much of a big deal is the fallout from bombs going off? Like there's people that live in Fukushima now, right? Or or or Nagasaki right now. Right. They they live in Japan and the areas that got hit. Yeah, they live in Hiroshima. It's like, it's okay there now. Right. So how long is it like those areas where they did the test? Like what's it like now? Is it fucked? Is it,

4 (1h 0m 22s):
I did read at one point I was reading a lot about all the cancer problems they were having just like in Chernobyl that they were having in Hiroshima and Nagasaki and those areas. and I don't know if they're still having those issues.

3 (1h 0m 35s):
Right. That was my question was like three

4 (1h 0m 36s):
Generations

3 (1h 0m 37s):
Later. Was this right after the bombs were the people that survived that? They got all that horrible radiation and then

4 (1h 0m 42s):
I think it came in waves. I think there was a lot of cancers in like the three to five years afterwards. Mm. And then again in 10 15 we could probably look it up. but it was, it was a continuous back to this,

7 (1h 0m 54s):
The rush account jumps really fast here in one month. It jumped, it did like 60 or so in one little area. and it looks like July. No. Yeah. September of 61. Oh boy. Did you see that? It went to 60 bombs went off.

3 (1h 1m 8s):
That's the dude that's Khrushchev. That's the dude he banged his fucking shoe on the, on the desk. Remember you said we will bury you. See, find that, that's that. You want to think how scary things are now you wanna think of what it was like in the 1960s when Khrushchev is Yep. Banging his fucking his heel on the, let me hear it. Because the, the fucking tone of his voice, this

7 (1h 1m 34s):
Is beat to the rhythmic

3 (1h 1m 35s):
Shoes out. Oh, they made a song outta it. Of course. That's hilarious. That's

7 (1h 1m 41s):
Two times also

3 (1h 1m 43s):
That, that was a scary fucking time. And those were people that had lost millions and millions and millions of soldiers in World War ii.

4 (1h 1m 53s):
Oh yeah. What, 20 million Russian? Yes.

3 (1h 1m 56s):
Something like that.

8 (1h 1m 58s):
To kindly stand again aside, once again,

3 (1h 2m 5s):
We live on earth not by the grace of God. No sir. By your grace, by the strength and intelligence of the great people of the Soviet Union and all the peoples which are fighting for their independence, you'll not be able to smother the voice of the peoples, the voice of truth which rings aloud and will go on ringing death and destruction to colonial servitude away with it. We must bury it and deeper the better. He didn't bang a shoe. So when does he bang his shoe? It Oh, they

4 (1h 2m 44s):
Cut.

7 (1h 2m 44s):
It appeared the coverage. But that other video I had definitely showed him banging

3 (1h 2m 47s):
His shoe. Right. Oh, so they they edited outed maybe. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe they're like, that's a little intense. Let's calm that guy down. Let's get him a vodka.

7 (1h 2m 55s):
See there's something.

3 (1h 2m 56s):
So yeah, here is banging

7 (1h 2m 58s):
Shoe. He's banging a bunch of stuff that's like a gavel or something. That could be a

3 (1h 3m 1s):
Shoe. I think that's a shoe.

7 (1h 3m 4s):
Looks like a shoe. and it bounces.

3 (1h 3m 5s):
Yeah. I think that's a shoe.

4 (1h 3m 6s):
But this, that's all theater.

3 (1h 3m 8s):
It is all theater. But it's a terrifying theater because they're actually killing people. Well

4 (1h 3m 11s):
The way that they're controlling their own people is by threatening they're, they're basically saying the United States is threatening our existence. Yeah. And and that's the exact same thing that, that yeah. That the American government said about the Soviet Union and and that's all that those nuclear testings were. It's it's a dick measuring. It's just like, look what we could do. What what we got.

3 (1h 3m 30s):
It's all, that's where communism goes kids. It seems like a great idea. It seems like we should all share money. You know, we should like, we shouldn't be so materialistic and if we just pooled all our money together, everybody would have enough and we wouldn't have to worry about anything. And then the government just tells you what your job is.

4 (1h 3m 47s):
I just want something to show me an example of it working. It

3 (1h 3m 49s):
Doesn't work.

4 (1h 3m 50s):
Just show me one, it

3 (1h 3m 51s):
It works in small groups. That's where it, if you can get a small group of bad motherfuckers,

4 (1h 3m 56s):
Well here's where it

3 (1h 3m 56s):
Works. You could be communists. You

4 (1h 3m 58s):
Could make the argument that the Plains Indians, tribes were communists. You could make that happen.

3 (1h 4m 2s):
Right, right, right. Okay. 'cause they didn't understand possessions. They would just, well they,

4 (1h 4m 6s):
They, everything is, so I'll take the Lakota for example. Everything was predicated, your wealth was basically how many horses you had and, and those horses you stole from another nation, another tribe, you know, the, the Lakota would steal from the Pawnee. They would steal from the crow. Everybody stole from the crow. They

3 (1h 4m 24s):
Were all rating each other. Which is an important point that is kind of left out of the narrative.

4 (1h 4m 29s):
And it's also, and they would then they would obviously kidnap. And one of the reasons that they did that was, you know, these are all familial tribes and it's survival. So we need a new bloodline to get in there. Isn't that wild?

3 (1h 4m 38s):
Yeah. They also had low birth rates because of the riding of the horses. So,

4 (1h 4m 42s):
And probably the the low body fat too. 'cause it's a Right. Purely for the large, for the most part. It's a, it's a pure protein diet. Yeah.

3 (1h 4m 50s):
They're just heating meat. They were corn rivers. Completely. Yeah.

4 (1h 4m 54s):
Yeah. They would have, you know, there, there were certain things, miners, lettuce and various, you know, annual, you know, seasonal fruits and

3 (1h 5m 4s):
Stuff they

4 (1h 5m 5s):
Could find that they could find. But, but come winter, man, that's six months. It's, it's, you're eating Beef jerky, you know? Yeah. And horses.

3 (1h 5m 12s):
And that's why they're following the buffalo. And

4 (1h 5m 14s):
Yeah. A hundred percent

3 (1h 5m 15s):
I mean that is the way to do it. Like, but that's like the thing is the people that live that way. Like,

4 (1h 5m 21s):
But notice communism worked in that thing because what did we remove from it? Money. Right. Right. As soon as you, as soon as you take a trinket and you assign a value to that trinket, then you, then people need to go be able to earn that trinket. That's

3 (1h 5m 33s):
Such a good point.

4 (1h 5m 34s):
And and if you look at communism, there's plenty of rich people in communist countries. Real rich. They just all work for the communist party. Yeah. Right. It's dumb. I did a lot of research on Cuba for a project and you know, interestingly enough, you know, they're given a ration of food every month you get this, you're gonna get a certain amount of eggs, you're gonna get a certain amount of, you're gonna get a sack of beans, you're gonna get your flour, you're gonna get your sugar, you're gonna get this, you're gonna get your coffee and you're gonna get your rum. 'cause we'd prefer you stay nice and liquid and happy. Right. But you're not gonna get to choose where you live. You're not gonna get to choose your job.

3 (1h 6m 13s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 6m 14s):
He's not gonna get to do that. And they, I I, I was studying up on this thing 'cause I was writing about a fisherman and if you, and they live on an island so you could think, well they could just go out and catch fish and lobsters and eat that. No, that belongs to the state. If you were caught with a lobster, you're gonna prison. Oh

3 (1h 6m 33s):
Jesus Christ.

4 (1h 6m 35s):
Yeah. So, so you sacrifice any freedom. So yeah, you may have, you may have free healthcare. How good is it, don don't know. But, but you don't get to determine your own path. It's

3 (1h 6m 46s):
A gangster system. And then they have their athletics program, which is just off the charts. They produce some of the fucking craziest athletes in combat sports, particularly in combat sports. I know, I know they're doing other things. But Tia Phil Stevenson, who was the guy who was the, the rival to Muhammad Ali, but he never left amateur boxing. He just won the gold medal. don don't know how many fucking years he won in a row. But he, everybody was like, if we could get this guy outta Cuba, this is a guy that could actually test Muhammad Ali. He's that good. Really? And he was just in the, in their Cuban program. And everyone was terrified of him because amateur boxers, they reach a certain level of ability and they get a good record going.

3 (1h 7m 28s):
And either they go to the Olympics and if they can medal that can ensure they get a big purse in their first few fights. Yeah. Olympic gold medalists. Pernell Whitaker. Yeah. Crow America, America. But if they don't, they just get enough experience where they can go professional. But in Cuba they never go professional. So you get guys that are 15, 16 years into a boxing career that's essentially always been professional. Right. Always been with the most elite coaches. The most elite sports drugs. Like whatever the fuck they have, whatever therapies they have, they're not natural like you are, you're gonna take whatever the fuck we give you. And that's what they did with Russia as well. Yeah. China. So how many times did he win the gold medal? Three golds in a row.

3 (1h 8m 8s):
Jesus Christ. Wow. Three golds in a row. That's 12 years of gold medals. Then

7 (1h 8m 13s):
All these other golds too at other events.

3 (1h 8m 14s):
Yeah. All these different events. I mean he was the fucking man. Wow. He was the fucking man. So what you're essentially dealing with is like a Mike Tyson type dude who's at like that level of like world championship caliber boxing. But you're having to fight amateurs. So everybody else is just trying to get together a career so they can go off into the professionals. This guy can never be professional. So he is a professional, right? So he's the best in the fucking world, but he's just not getting paid to fight Muhammad Ali on television. Right. He might I mean Ali might've beat him. Frazier might've beat him. Foreman might, might have. Some of those guys might've beat him, but he never got, we never got to see it. But what we did see is like that caliber of boxing come outta Cuba.

3 (1h 8m 55s):
And some of the scariest guys that have ever fought in the UFC have come outta Cuba. Yoel Romero, the freakiest of freak athletes of all time came outta Cuba. Really? Yeah. He's like, he never won the golden UFC but he got to the fucking game when he was like 36. Really? Yeah man, he's like in his forties now. And just jacked natural, still fighting. I told the story before, I apologize for people who have listened, but the UFC brought him to a doctor because he had broke his orbital bone in a fight he got. And they brought him to his doctor and the doctor contacts the UFC and says, where did you get this guy? And he goes, he's one of our fighters.

3 (1h 9m 36s):
They go, I've never seen a guy like him. He goes, yeah, yeah, he's, he's amazing, right? He goes, no, no, no. You don understand. Like, I've never seen a human being like this. I've been a doctor for 35 years or whatever it was. He goes, the tendons in his eyes are three times larger than a normal person's. He goes, he's already healing. He goes, the bone that's fractured in his orbital is already healing. It started to heal. I was like, where'd you get this guy? Where the fuck did you get this guy? Have you ever seen him? Wait, I just want you to see what he looks like. That's yellow bro. And he's in his forties here in his forties. And he's a fucking amazing guy. An amazing guy. He came in here and did a podcast with me and Joey Diaz translated so he can only speak limited, limited English, but he was talking about Cuba.

3 (1h 10m 22s):
He was like, where

10 (1h 10m 24s):
You at in Cuba? There's so many, so many guy. They're killers and

3 (1h 10m 29s):
Killers and you become a A machine. You become a machine. And I was like, oh my god, what that guy went through. So that, that is also a part of what Cuba is. They're forced into this. If you were at the best level, you get to eat three times a day. Yeah. But if you're at the other level, you get to eat twice a day and you don't get to sleep in the good places, you get to sleep in the shit places. So all these guys are training with each other, all fighting for these spots, literally for food. Fucking crazy Stevenson then 22 years old was rewarded with a house for himself in Havana and another for himself and his family in don don't know how to say that. Delicia, Delicia Stevenson later recalled, I had no idea a house in Delicia was gonna be so big when I was shown the plane.

3 (1h 11m 13s):
I said, what is this a bunker of the plans rather? He said, what is this? A bunker? So they they gave him stuff. Yeah, they gave him like houses and shit. Two houses and two cars. Yeah. They, he, they would treat them well they did that also for the Soviet athletes. Right? Like, like guys like Carlin the the guy who's, that's another experiment. They literally called him the experiment.

4 (1h 11m 33s):
Really?

3 (1h 11m 34s):
You don't know who he is? No. I should have showed you the photo in the gym. There's a photo of him that I have out there just constantly. I need a constant reminder of what a pussy I am. and it iss this photo of Carlin who was like 6 2, 300 pounds and moved like a cat.

4 (1h 11m 50s):
Oh I know. I know exactly who this guy is. Yeah, yeah. He

3 (1h 11m 52s):
Would literally, his move was to pick guys up and smash them into the ground. So look at his face. He was beating you up with the world. So everybody else was trying to wrestle and what Corin was doing was wrestling so that he could beat you up with the world he's hitting you, boom into the world with all of his weight and all of your weight. And he just kept peeking people up and just slam and slam. And he would let 'em go back to the ground and he'd pick 'em up again and slam 'em. And he did it to everybody. Nobody could stop it. He was that much of a freak. And his parents were little like little folks, regular size folks, 5, 5, 5, 7, just little

4 (1h 12m 29s):
Tiny folks Really?

3 (1h 12m 30s):
And he's just this fucking human cat.

4 (1h 12m 33s):
He just got just like human cat dose of whatever their best genes were. So

3 (1h 12m 37s):
That's the other side of communism. Like they'll force you into this program And the killers, the guys like, this is him. Look at, look at what you do to people. These guys, this is a fucking, that's a national champion from some country and Carlan just got a hold of him. He's just gonna fuck him up. Boom. So he's just throwing you into the ground over and over and over and over again. Watch how he does this. Boom. The fucking amount of power involved in that is absurd. That's a 260 pound man and he's just hurling him around. So that's the plus side of communism. You can get some amazing athletes right if

4 (1h 13m 14s):
You do it right. Exactly. You're farming athletes.

3 (1h 13m 17s):
Yeah. I mean they're essentially like the best of the best doing it that way. We could do it better here for sure. We definitely could do it. We have the best athletes for sure. If you'd looked at like the, you watch the NFL, you watch the U ffc. Oh yeah. You watch the best athletes are are right here. Even if they've moved here to become a part of this, like Francis and Ghana who came to America, they're the best athletes or here it seems there's a lot of really good ones in other countries. They're real close. But man, when it comes to like super freak athletes, there's capitalism seems to be the way to go. It seems. It seems to be. That's especially capitalism. If You don't drug test them, well that's the best

4 (1h 13m 55s):
Way. Yeah. If you could get a little sloppy on the drug testing, it's gonna help. Yeah,

3 (1h 13m 57s):
That'd be nice guys. If I was running shit like look, I would do, you know the UFC has USADA and then they got rid of usada. Now they had drug drugs free sport, which is gonna do a similar program. But just do it more logically in their perspective. The, the USADA would like sometimes wake fighters up at four o'clock in the morning or six o'clock in the morning the day of the weigh-ins.

4 (1h 14m 17s):
Oh really? It was terrible. Ugh.

3 (1h 14m 18s):
Terrible. 'cause they're cutting weight and they're

4 (1h 14m 20s):
Just right. They're exhausted, they're dehydrated

3 (1h 14m 21s):
And now you're gonna test them on the day of a weigh-in. It's so stupid. Like You don't have to do that. You can catch 'em. If they're doing something, you're gonna catch 'em. And if they're not doing something, let them go through this fucking insane process without disturbing them. The weight cut is an insane process and no one, people who have never seen it before don't know how nutty it is. But I think they should be able to do some stuff. I think they should be able to do some stuff. I really do. I think it's science. I think it helps you heal better. I think there should be like rational limits of what you can and can't do. You know, don don't think you should be able to do full on like trend and steroids and wild shit. No, but

4 (1h 14m 58s):
I think can you, can you do peptide therapy? Can you do

3 (1h 14m 60s):
No, that's my problem. That isn't 100% my problem with

4 (1h 15m 2s):
It. If you look at, and I've done it, if you look at the, at the NFL's rule of all the shit you can't take. Yeah. Like one of those guys could go to GNC and pick something up and end up testing

3 (1h 15m 12s):
Positive. It happens with the UFC all the time. and it happens with guys that 100% are not taking steroids.

4 (1h 15m 16s):
Yeah. They wouldn they got some creatine. Yeah. And and there was, who knows what they mixed it on or they creatine spiked too high or did something and

3 (1h 15m 22s):
Well that was one thing that UFC's drug program did a fantastic job of. If you went to the USADA website, there was a full list of all of the things that if you bought you would piss hot. So it's like whenever they find like a contaminated, 'cause like one of the things we found out when we started on it, when we started this supplement company with my friend Aubrey and myself, when we started making this vitamin called Alpha Brain, we had a certain amount of ingredients that were in there. And so then we would get it third party tested. And so then we get it third party tested and third party tested. Like, you guys have this in there too. Like what is that? Why is that in there? Well it turns out when you're getting your stuff mixed, they're not really cleaning those barrels out

4 (1h 16m 5s):
Real good. Right. They're just tossing shit in and Right.

3 (1h 16m 7s):
So if you're buying like fucking super pump from the vitamin shop, whatever it is, you know, that has like something that's supposed to boost your testosterone and they're making the same place where they're making real roids. Yeah.

4 (1h 16m 19s):
They're, well then

3 (1h 16m 19s):
You're getting, you're gonna get

4 (1h 16m 20s):
A little,

3 (1h 16m 21s):
It's gonna get it. Some of the stuff that works works 'cause it's R's. Right.

4 (1h 16m 25s):
You know,

3 (1h 16m 25s):
I mean that's the thing. Like those gas station dick pills,

4 (1h 16m 29s):
It's probably just Viagra.

3 (1h 16m 31s):
Uhuh. Not according, I've never tried 'em, but not according to my friend Brian, who was a, a gas station dick pill addict for a while. He says they're steroids. He goes, they have to be steroids because they make you so aggressive and they gives, they give you so much energy and he goes, your dick as hard as a rock. He goes, I was addicted to, so there's just sound

4 (1h 16m 49s):
Weird. See a big spike in sales of like Dragon fire or whatever they call that

3 (1h 16m 53s):
Shit to this. Yeah. Well they, they did find out that a lot of them had Viagra in it and it's one of the reasons why they kept getting pulled. But they would get pulled and then they'd come back with a new name. So they're all done like with foreign companies and sneaky companies. So they'd be, it'll be like, you know, like Black Rhino would be one and then like that would be like White Rhino would be the new one. Right? Like you got got got rhinos. We had the white rhinos. Okay, gimme one of 'em. And people were essentially going to gas stations and buying these wild unknown amphetamines spliced in with Viagra spliced in with steroids. That's crazy. What exactly? Rhino pills. Some rhino products Con contained s sildenafil or fil according to the FDA.

3 (1h 17m 34s):
Well that's, these are respectively the active ingredients of Viagra and Cialis. Yeah. Yeah. But I think they also had some other stuff in there, man. They add some other stuff in there on the

7 (1h 17m 43s):
Top. The minerals, herbs, vitamins and enzymes. Amino acids. It doesn't have to say what they are.

3 (1h 17m 46s):
Right. It could be an maybe also steroids. Yeah. Maybe also, maybe also withdrawal. Maybe also. Yeah, there's some stuff that you could take in oral form that I guarantee they, that's not expensive. And if you can get people like my friend Brian, who's like completely addicted to these fucking things. He was buying 'em all the time. He did, didn't he do like reviews of gas station Dick pills? Brian Red band. You're the man. Oh, that's Genius. He did right? He did reviews, I'm sure. Yeah.

7 (1h 18m 11s):
I mean he talked about it enough. They were all reviews.

3 (1h 18m 13s):
He's a character man. This is a dude who, when Pepsi Spice got made, he developed a website called pepsi spice.com. 'cause they didn't have the the, they didn't have the domain. So he bought the domain. So he bought Pepsi Spice and then documented him drinking Pepsi Spice All day long and horrible diseases happening to him. He's fucking his life falling apart. He's losing weight. He was making it up. He just made up this fake blog about dying while drinking too much Pepsi Spice. Really? Yeah. This is the dick, dick pill guy. He's an, he's a maniac.

4 (1h 18m 47s):
Did Pepsi ever go like, hey,

3 (1h 18m 48s):
I think they did. I think they did. and I think he backed off. They introduced

4 (1h 18m 50s):
You to our attorney.

3 (1h 18m 51s):
Yeah. I think they fucked up though in not getting the domain. And this guy had the domain and then they're concerned, is this guy actually drinking 15 gallons of Pepsi spice a day? Does he really? Is he having fucking cholera? Like, what's happening to this kid? But how did we get on this tangent? It was all about no, we went left DUFC allowing peptides. Oh yeah.

4 (1h 19m 10s):
And we got there from nuclear waste and we got there from coal fusion. That's a pretty good, it's

3 (1h 19m 15s):
Been nice little run. Yeah. Yeah. It's, we're in a weird time in this country where, where people are so divided that they don't even wanna look at the actual truth of things. If they have like an ideological position on things, they just wanna only hold onto that and never open their mind up to other people's perspectives. and it, it's also at a time where more people have access to information than ever before. So it's so easy to change your perspective today. 'cause there's so much information you can, you can always get new information.

4 (1h 19m 44s):
And there seems to be a, between both political parties, a, a, a feverish need for control that I don't ever recall. You know, you could watch the, the debates between, there's a, there's a real funny, funny one between Reagan and Mondale. And, and Reagan says at one point, you know, age he was 74 maybe when he was running for reelection and his age was an issue. Th that, that might be an issue in this upcoming election.

3 (1h 20m 16s):
He that'll be a Yeah. Spring Chicken in this

4 (1h 20m 18s):
Election. Yeah. And, and Reagan said, he said, listen, I I'm not gonna allow age to be an issue in this debate. I will not hold my, my my the other candidate's youth and inexperience against him. I mean he just turned it into a joke. Yeah. but it was a joke. And Mondale laughed. I think they shook hands. It was a, it was a civilized debate about what's the way to run this country. That's pretty quick right there.

3 (1h 20m 45s):
He did look pretty old back then.

11 (1h 20m 47s):
Campaign. I am not going to exploit for political purposes my opponent's youth and inexperience.

3 (1h 20m 56s):
And Dale laughed. Yeah. What a better time back then. What a better time. These two guys were in a debate and he's just like, oh, you got me. Good job. He just took it on the chin. Yeah. Like a man. How come they can't do that anymore? Like even the fucking guy.

11 (1h 21m 11s):
I might add Mr. Truitt, I might add that it was Seneca or it was Cicero don don't know. Which that said, if it was not for the elders correcting the mistakes of the young, there would be no state

12 (1h 21m 24s):
Mr. President. I'd like to head for the fence and try to catch that one before it goes over. But, but I'll go on to another question.

4 (1h 21m 30s):
So it was a time when you really feel like, and forget political leanings, both of those guys, it seemed, you know, they had different ideas about the way to get to the same place. Yeah. and I think we're in a very unique place right now where no one's even talking about where we're trying to go. This is really about thought and beliefs. No one's talking policies. I haven't heard anyone talk about various policies in for four years. The what we're talking about is, which by the way, when you, when you're talking about what you can believe and what's this, and we're gonna argue about arbitrary things that aren't arguable really.

4 (1h 22m 11s):
And we keep our focus on that. And everyone's so impassioned about their position on some social issue that we have no solution to, then you don't focus on a $34 trillion debt. You don't focus on the fact that we're so reduced in our, in our position on the world stage. There was a, there was a time when our, our military and our political resolve was so aligned that nobody wanted to fuck with us. And we could sit there and and say, Hey guys, we're not gonna have a war in Ukraine. We're just not gonna do it. And they go, okay. You know, if you think about nine 11 and, and George W. Bush was not a very popular president at that moment in time.

4 (1h 22m 55s):
and it, and people have forgotten that Al Gore and, and the Democratic Party and I didn't vote for George W. Bush. They, they questioned, they contested that election then they said it was, it was Yeah. Rigged. They said it was this, they took it to the Supreme Court. It was, we, we didn't have a president really? For almost two months.

3 (1h 23m 13s):
Was that the dangling Chads?

4 (1h 23m 15s):
Yeah, that was the hanging chads hanging chads and then cut to, you know, a, a year later and, and, and he's woefully unpopular. And then nine 11 happens and he gave a speech, the best speech of his, of his entire presidency. I thought that galvanized the nation. and I remember, and I lived in LA at the time when that happened. And, and everybody was, they'd see a fireman or a policeman and they'd say, Hey, thank you for your service. Like, let me buy you a cup of everybody in la Yeah. Yeah. And there was a sense of the sacrifice. These guys and these men and women took on and we were really unified moving forward against what we needed to do to protect our sovereignty and protect the people of the country.

4 (1h 24m 1s):
Then it got fucked up and then it became about oil and it became about a bunch of other things. And,

3 (1h 24m 5s):
But there was a time that time was the best of us. That time I remember driving to work and I was driving down the street and every fucking car had an American flag on it. Yeah. my friend Jay London used to sell them, sell these little American

4 (1h 24m 18s):
SI don't know, stuck your window.

3 (1h 24m 19s):
Everyone had 'em. Everyone had 'em. They're so bother.

4 (1h 24m 21s):
And this is Los Angeles? This is

3 (1h 24m 22s):
In la Yeah. As

4 (1h 24m 24s):
Liberal a city as there is

3 (1h 24m 24s):
In America. They woke. They woke Right the fuck up. Yeah. They didn't. And everybody came together and people were nicer for a while. It was interesting.

4 (1h 24m 30s):
It was a really unique time,

3 (1h 24m 33s):
But it didn't last. You're right. It didn't last. But also it was like, wait, why are we going to Iraq? It, it got real squirrely real fast.

4 (1h 24m 40s):
Yeah. Well

3 (1h 24m 40s):
That's, and the weapons of mass destruction thing and all that other stuff. It's like, God damnit like we had the world's faith and love for a little bit, but we did, we did what we do. We did what we always do.

4 (1h 24m 54s):
Yeah. We found a way to make a business of it.

3 (1h 24m 57s):
Well that's what people do. Yeah. That's their job. Unfortunately

4 (1h 25m 0s):
It's human nature and you're not gonna find it. You know, I consider you can pick the historical moment and we can find someone who exploited it.

3 (1h 25m 6s):
That's why it's fascinating to watch something like 1883 because you're seeing human beings exploiting human beings in this very raw way. Like one thing that really got me was the robbers, the groups of robbers. 'cause I didn't really take that into consideration either. but it wasn't just that you had to worry about the Comanche, you had to worry about these groups of robbers that would just show up and kill everybody.

4 (1h 25m 28s):
That actually, you know, if you look at statistics, bandits killed more of these immigrants moving north and people on the Oregon trail than, than the Native Americans did. Wow.

3 (1h 25m 40s):
I never even considered that until the show I mean. I knew they existed, but I didn't think of 'em as that big of a factor.

4 (1h 25m 45s):
Well, you for whatever reason, well it's this, it's an area with absolutely no governance, no rule of law. Right. Whatsoever. None and I think that's something that people need to be thinking about now. You know, we, we've got, I always think what's what, what, what, what am I leaving my son? What's the, the world like in 30 years for him? Right. And decisions made. Now we sit here and break rules that are clearly established in a constitution, which has existed for a couple hundred years and, and held this place together. When we start manipulating that document to, to maintain relevance for a very short term goal for a politician or for one specific cause, whatever that cause is when we start manipulating that and abandoning the rule of law.

4 (1h 26m 31s):
Yeah. When we start doing that 30 years from now, that benchmark is what's gonna be used against all the people that pushed it. Right now. That's

3 (1h 26m 37s):
What scares me right now about all this talk about primaries, about limiting people from primaries. There's been fi see if you can find this. They were saying that many states have chosen to only have Joe bidet on to, to vote for in the primaries.

4 (1h 26m 55s):
And, and you know, it's,

3 (1h 26m 57s):
It's, that sounds here's like such a bad idea.

4 (1h 26m 59s):
Here's my, this is my point where, and and you can, people could think of Donald Trump however they wanna think of Donald Trump. It, it doesn't really matter who the individual is. A a a court in Colorado is going to essentially make a decision based upon a trial that has not happened yet. In other words, they're basically saying he's guilty of something that he hasn't been tried for and therefore they're removing him from a ballot. Right. And, and, and right now maybe the Democrats feel as though they're justified in that action because they're so terrified of what Donald Trump may do if he becomes president again. But are they thinking about what's gonna happen in 20 years or 30 years because this has now been established and at some point the Republicans will gain control.

4 (1h 27m 47s):
They will get a majority in the Senate. Again, we look through history, it just swings back and forth. It's gonna for eight years, it's this and eight years. It's that. So another party will be in control and that party can use all of these manipulations of rules to maintain control. And and that's when you start to have a dictatorship. Yeah. At the end of the day, regardless of who's left right, doesn't make a difference.

3 (1h 28m 7s):
Exactly. And if you let that happen, bidet won't have challengers. In North Carolina, 2024 primary election state Democratic party decides North Carolina Democratic Party declined to allow any bidet challengers on the ballot for the 2024 primary. They made a similar effort in 2020 attempting to put only Donald Trump on the ballot that year. Interesting. Both

4 (1h 28m 29s):
Of those are terrible ideas. Both

3 (1h 28m 30s):
Of those are terrible ideas. This is why they, in order to get on the ballot, you need to have donors in the state and actively campaigning in the state. Neither of them have been here this cycle. Who are the other people? Dean Phillips and Marianne Williamson. How crazy is it? Who's dean? Who the fuck are you Dean? I never heard your voice. I never seen your face. Minnesota. Come on. Lemme see. Dean. Imagine if Dean pulls it off. Maybe Dean's the man and I don't even know. Isn't

4 (1h 28m 57s):
Marian Williamson look at him like a self-help writer.

3 (1h 28m 59s):
That's what it says right there. Yeah. She's a self-help writer. Self-help

4 (1h 29m 3s):
Author from California.

3 (1h 29m 7s):
I want to think highly of everybody without prejudice. But if you tell me you're a self-help author from California, I automatically go, what kind of, that's like a mini, she's

4 (1h 29m 16s):
Gonna have to do a lot of counseling when she gets to dc.

3 (1h 29m 18s):
Yeah. I mean she gonna self-help the world. Maybe she's, maybe she's good don don't know. But either one of 'em have almost no chance against bidet anyway. Right? No. So why, why are they limiting people's choice? You should never limit people's ability to choose I mean. Maybe those people can get on a debate stage and rock the world and all of a sudden there's a big movement behind 'em. But that's supposed to be what it's about kids. That's supposed to be what the whole thing is about. If someone comes along in a more compelling candidate, you're supposed to get them. It's, it's not, the party is not supposed to be able to decide who the guy is against the will of the people. Because that's a lot like comedy has some kids. It

4 (1h 29m 53s):
It's, it's, it is, it's a fascist. It is.

3 (1h 29m 55s):
It's fascist. It's crazy. It's crazy that you think you could do it because you think your team is right. We're the, we're the good guys.

4 (1h 30m 1s):
Well, if you think you're so right, then why won't you allow your positions to be challenged so that you can prove how much better they are? Because

3 (1h 30m 9s):
They have the ability to enact control. Yeah. And when you give people the ability to in enact control, they always take it. That's why you have to always resist them moving those fucking boundaries. 'cause it's just human nature. You could call it evil. You could say all these different things. You could call it greedy. It's human nature to want more. And when you have a certain amount of control and you can get a lot more things done with more control, you try to get more control. And then you try to figure out strategies. How do we, what, what can we do in order to make it important that we pass a new law? So now we have the NDAA, now we have the Patriot Act. Now we have this now. Okay, now we've got a lot more control. Now we have the NSA spying on everybody. Whew. Much more control.

3 (1h 30m 49s):
It's much, and every time time this happens, you get more and more.

4 (1h 30m 52s):
The problem is those politicians, it doesn't matter if you're a congresswoman from Indiana or California or Texas. Yes. You, you were elected by a, a certain district and you're representing that district, but you're also representing every other citizen of the United States. You're a US Congress person. Okay. And you swore an oath to uphold the constitution above and beyond everything else. And they're manipulating the document for very short term game. And I'm not blaming They're all doing it. Yeah. And, and, and people need to wake up to that because the, they're going to, they're gonna manipulate it in a way that is going to look, there's, there's plenty of countries in this, in this world that have elections.

4 (1h 31m 36s):
They have a, now we're not a democracy, we're a republic. But they have their free elections and they got one candidate.

3 (1h 31m 43s):
Yeah. That was, and guess what, in

4 (1h 31m 45s):
Russia, right. That candidate always seems to win.

3 (1h 31m 47s):
Crazy.

4 (1h 31m 48s):
Overwhelming, majority weird. Isn't

3 (1h 31m 50s):
That shocking? Crazy how that happens. And anybody who's a rab rouser gets shot. Yeah, sounds good. Sounds perfect. It's just, we should know this by now. You know, listen, how about you leave the document alone? We'll let you keep you insider trading. Just like looking. We'll, look aside, I'm not hating the game. I'm not hating the

4 (1h 32m 10s):
Players. Yeah. Did you see that? I saw a really interesting thing about these senators on both sides that have been in for 20, 30 years. They make 175,000 a year and they're hundred worth worth.

3 (1h 32m 19s):
Hundreds of millions. Net worth.

4 (1h 32m 20s):
85 million. 195 million.

3 (1h 32m 23s):
They're really good investors.

4 (1h 32m 25s):
Oh really? Yeah, they are. That's

3 (1h 32m 26s):
It. They're really good investors. Some people are good at it. Okay. Maybe you're not so good at it. Sorry. They just, they're prescient. They're like, you know, maybe there's a room that you can go to in the White House and you could just,

4 (1h 32m 37s):
You know, the universe gives you suggestions. I think we've, we've hit a point to where, and this was a pretty popular conversation in the eighties and nineties and then it just disappeared. I think we gotta start talking about term limits.

3 (1h 32m 48s):
Yeah, that's a good idea. Term limits are a good idea. When you see someone like Nancy Pelosi. Yeah. Because she's like the best at riding out that wave. Oh yeah.

4 (1h 32m 54s):
How know with her a day trader husband.

3 (1h 32m 56s):
Yeah. How about Feinstein? She wrote it out until she, until died. Was literally dying. Yeah. And they're telling her who to vote for. Yeah. They're just pushing her out there.

4 (1h 33m 4s):
I think maybe it's gonna probably take two terms to even figure out what you're doing in the House of Representatives. Say you

3 (1h 33m 11s):
Need favorite is Mitch McConnell.

4 (1h 33m 12s):
Oh dude. When

3 (1h 33m 13s):
He just switches off, that dude just switches off.

4 (1h 33m 17s):
Hey, we've got some octogenarians up in there right now.

3 (1h 33m 20s):
Yeah. Once you switch off. Once you can't drive anymore. Okay. You're not allowed to drive. You just switch off. Okay. Grandpa, grandpa gimme the fucking keys. Yeah. Okay. And so you're driving, what, what do you, what are you doing? Your what? What are you doing? You're involved in important decisions for the entire world.

4 (1h 33m 37s):
Should there be age limits?

3 (1h 33m 39s):
Fuck yeah. Fuck yeah.

4 (1h 33m 41s):
Or at least an aptitude test.

3 (1h 33m 42s):
An aptitude test. But also dependent upon future aptitude tests and future physical fitness evaluations. Yeah. That's what I think. I think if you, you can't just say every 75-year-old is the same as every other 75-year-old. 'cause look at Robert Kennedy. Bobby Kennedy Jr. Is like, how old is he? 69. He looks fucking great. Yeah. Fit. He's fit. He's always at Gold's Gym. He works out jeans for some strange reason. don don't know why he does that. That's

4 (1h 34m 8s):
Some old school shit.

3 (1h 34m 9s):
I guess it's some old

4 (1h 34m 10s):
School shit. They skied in them back in the day. Yeah. They'd scotch guard their jeans and go skiing. Yeah.

3 (1h 34m 14s):
That's where actually I first met him. I met him in Aspen just randomly. Really? Yeah. I was up there with, I don't ski, I ski used to ski, but my last accident, I was like, that's

4 (1h 34m 22s):
Right. I did the same thing. I'm like, I know. I'm like, that's horses are dangerous. I have a

3 (1h 34m 24s):
Friend of mine who was a fake knee because of it. He went skiing, he tore his knee apart and he had to get an artificial knee. Yeah. Fuck that. I know it's fun. I get it. But anyway, I ran into him there and he looks fucking jacked. Look at him. Yeah. That's a 69-year-old guy. Now there's a lot of dudes that I know that are 69 that don't look anything like that. I mean. No disrespect Ron White, but put Ron White's body next to Robert Kennedy jr's body I mean the guy's fucking really fit. That's fake. That's fake. Yeah. Just checking. Checking. Yeah. That one's fake. But the the real ones are very impressive. Yeah. My my point is, it's like, okay, that guy, I don't have a problem with his age at all. Yeah. You know, he's obviously very bright. He's constantly writing books. He's, he's a brilliant environmental lawyer.

3 (1h 35m 6s):
But then there's other guys, like, they get to like, like he, you think of that, okay, that's only five years younger than Reagan in that video. Yeah.

4 (1h 35m 15s):
There's

3 (1h 35m 15s):
A difference. Yeah. There's

4 (1h 35m 16s):
A difference. No, somewhere at 70. Yeah. You should have to take some type of aptitude test and a physical fitness test and then maybe every two years after.

3 (1h 35m 25s):
Yes, for sure. And maybe for driving too.

4 (1h 35m 27s):
I'm pretty sure after a certain age you have to have an annual driver's test.

3 (1h 35m 33s):
Is it? Yeah. You should.

4 (1h 35m 34s):
I think something

3 (1h 35m 34s):
Like that. Maybe in some states it varies. don don't know. But you should definitely. 'cause my grandpa when before he died, who he would take me out and I'd be like, oh shit. And my grandpa had an old Buick, this big ass, was it a Chrysler? Chrysler Old Chrysler this big ass fucking car. So it was like one of those boats, like when you turn the wheels, like, and he couldn't see anymore. Like he, and he didn't want to admit it, so he didn't want to not, you know, he didn't wanna not drive, but he couldn't see it was, it was fucking sketchy. And he couldn't drive at night at all. But he'd just take us out. We were like seven, like gripping the fucking seats. Like Jesus grandpa

4 (1h 36m 11s):
And those old, you know, there's about this much play in the wheel.

3 (1h 36m 14s):
Very, yeah. You got so much play. You can't make any fast maneuvers. They don't handle it all. But yeah, that for, for running the fucking most important army the world has ever known. Yeah. You probably should have aptitude tests if you're gonna be the president. Yeah. Like there should be, there should be some way We can tell if there's like a foolproof way. We can tell you're not falling apart. But do you really think Joe Bidet would pass that test? He wouldn't have passed that test before he became president. And he's aging rapidly while he's president.

4 (1h 36m 44s):
Every, every, every president In my lifetime you've watched them think about some of the younger presidents, George W. Bush and Obama, you know, they went in there in their forties with a full head of dark hair. Yep. And that is not how they left.

3 (1h 36m 58s):
They got scared.

4 (1h 36m 59s):
I mean that the

3 (1h 37m 0s):
Pressure of that job must the pressure be

4 (1h 37m 2s):
Insane. And the, and the, and you know what it's like, and this is, there's no comparing the two, but, but just how ragged you can get run if you're gonna go do a comedy show here and then there and then there and you're just living out of a suitcase and then you gotta say this, you've gotta be on Yep. I mean it takes a toll. Yeah. When I go direct I mean if I go on a six month, which I'm about to a six month, seven month run of directing every single day where I have to make decisions from 6:00 AM until nine o'clock at night, then I gotta watch footage till midnight. I get three, four hours of sleep at night for six months. I'm a fucking wreck. Every

3 (1h 37m 33s):
Six. But you were telling me about season three of Yellowstone that you essentially wrote it on Saturdays.

4 (1h 37m 39s):
Yeah, I was directing a movie with Angie, with Angie Jolie and New Mexico. and I had to, they had a start date that, that by God they were gonna start, didn't matter. They didn't have scripts they were gonna start and, and I had to, you know, we would shoot, do a night shoot Friday night and finish about seven in the morning and I'd come home and sleep till two and wake up and have coffee and write the script Saturday till, you know, one, two in the morning, wake up Sunday, do it, do it again. Finish the script, send it off.

3 (1h 38m 10s):
Oh my God, I

4 (1h 38m 11s):
Did it. 10, 10. Well 10 episodes I did it. 10 weeks in a row. Fucking killed me.

3 (1h 38m 16s):
How do you keep your brain active during that time? Are you careful about what you eat? Are you Yeah, very drinking

4 (1h 38m 22s):
A

3 (1h 38m 22s):
Lot of water.

4 (1h 38m 22s):
Very,

3 (1h 38m 23s):
Very,

4 (1h 38m 23s):
Yeah. Very. Yeah.

3 (1h 38m 24s):
I would imagine like your body's on the edge. I'm, you can't fuck around

4 (1h 38m 28s):
I'm very, very conscious of what I eat. You know, I try to be pretty conscious anyway, but I'm a freak when I, when we're directing,

3 (1h 38m 36s):
Do you take any nootropics or anything like that?

4 (1h 38m 38s):
So I take, I take a big mix of different things. I take mes factors I take, I take I nin and I'll do like a thiamine alpha, which is a, which is a peptide that's an anti-inflammatory for your body. And I'm, and I'm just really rigid. I do a B12 shot every other day. Mm. On set. Just anything that I can do to keep me alert and, and you know, 'cause you'll get what they call the movie flu, where you just just get run down. You just I mean the, the hours are, you know, it's 14, 16 hours a day. Yeah.

3 (1h 39m 11s):
And then, and you have deadlines and you have a budget and you have to do it that way.

4 (1h 39m 15s):
Okay. I mean the budget. I, yeah. We have a budget. But you've seen my shows. They're, they, they, they, they let me run. So I have the

3 (1h 39m 21s):
CGI in 1883. I was like, this is insane. I, because don don't wanna give anything away, but there's a scene with a storm where you're like, oh my God. Like, you can do some wild shit today.

4 (1h 39m 33s):
Well, the other thing is, yes, but the other thing is I waited till a day with 60 mile an hour winds to shoot that.

3 (1h 39m 39s):
Oh, perfect.

4 (1h 39m 40s):
I let, I let God do a lot of the cgi. I Nice. They're

3 (1h 39m 43s):
Like, there's

4 (1h 39m 43s):
A terrible storm coming in and I

3 (1h 39m 44s):
Said, let's go, let's sweep the schedule. Yeah. Because there's no way you could ever have done that with their hair and all the things flying around.

4 (1h 39m 52s):
Yeah, yeah. It was, it

3 (1h 39m 54s):
Was nuts. It was fucking great, man. It's a great show.

4 (1h 39m 56s):
How about that ending?

3 (1h 39m 59s):
It was rough. It was rough. Like, I was just walking around my house like two hours afterwards.

4 (1h 40m 5s):
And the funny thing is, I told the audience what was gonna happen in the first scene.

3 (1h 40m 9s):
Yeah. I know That was a wild thing You did. Yeah. That's, it's like you're waiting for it throughout all the episodes and you know, there's only 10, so you're like, when wow does this go down? It it, it, it definitely, it added a layer of anticipation. It's brilliant man. It really is. It's one of the best shows I've ever seen.

4 (1h 40m 27s):
And I shot 70% of it. 80% of it at the four Sixes.

3 (1h 40m 34s):
How the fuck is Tim McGraw and Faith Hill? So good.

4 (1h 40m 40s):
That's crazy, isn't it? So

3 (1h 40m 42s):
How are they so good at acting? Did

4 (1h 40m 44s):
You Well, lemme tell you what, every singer can act just like every comedian can act.

3 (1h 40m 50s):
Dude, he's fucking incredible.

4 (1h 40m 52s):
Did you ever see him in, in Friday Night Lights the movie? No.

3 (1h 40m 54s):
No.

4 (1h 40m 55s):
Oh, that film that and I know Pete Berg came on the show with you here. Pete was a, a big mentor of mine. And, and that to me is a perfect sports film. It's a fun, if you haven't seen that movie, you gotta see that movie. It's Billy Bob Thornton and Tim McGraw plays this abusive dad in it. and it is I mean he's raw, but he is, he's the well runs deep with that guy.

3 (1h 41m 19s):
Well, you could tell in that movie man, or in your show, rather, he, you just 100% buy that he is a stone cold killer. Yeah.

4 (1h 41m 26s):
And Faith she hadn't acted before. Incredible. We were just hoping.

3 (1h 41m 30s):
Incredible.

4 (1h 41m 31s):
And she brought

3 (1h 41m 31s):
It incredible. Yeah. But also has to help that they're a real life married couple. You know, there's like, there's like real Oh yeah. Like you, there's like layers of chemistry when they're on the set together

4 (1h 41m 44s):
And, and the subtext and the Yeah. It was, and

3 (1h 41m 47s):
It, the heavy moments, don don't wanna give anything away, but some of the heavy, heavy moments between the two of 'em, you're like, oh my God. Imagine dealing with that. The fucking shit those people had to deal with. It's

4 (1h 41m 58s):
Insanity.

3 (1h 41m 59s):
It's heavy, dude. It's a heavy show, but it's really good. and I think it's a really important thing for people to be aware of that that's a pretty a, it's obviously fiction, but it's a pretty accurate representation of how it went down.

4 (1h 42m 10s):
Yeah. I mean the circumstances were imaginary, but the tools and the things I mean that's how they died and that's how they lived.

3 (1h 42m 15s):
Yeah. You know, when you look back at all the civilizations that have existed that have risen and fallen and you know, and the idea that that's happening to America now, like this is what's happened on this continent over the last 400 years is one of the most insane stories in all of history. In all of history. I mean there's some insane stories. Insane, you know, empires that ruled the world for long periods of time. You know, the Portuguese and the Yeah. The British and the, the Mongols Of course and the Vikings. But what the fuck happened here is so crazy that there was a country full of nomadic Native American tribes.

3 (1h 42m 59s):
There were warring with each other all the time and living off the land and living in harmony with the land. And then all of a sudden boats start showing up. And then within 50, 60, a hundred years, 200 years, it's just flooded with Europeans. Like a mass invasion of a place that had people have been living on it for 20,000 plus years.

4 (1h 43m 19s):
Yeah. Maybe longer. You know, they longer, they found some, you know, the Clovis point that they found in New Mexico, which dated back to like 12,000 bc And, and, and I could go on a sidebar with these archeologists, when they find something that's the oldest, they will defend it to the death. Yeah. They do not want anything older to be found.

3 (1h 43m 36s):
Well, yeah, they, that's a real problem with Egypt too.

4 (1h 43m 38s):
But they found another point of some kind in New Mexico that dates back another 8,000 years.

3 (1h 43m 46s):
Yeah. They found which

4 (1h 43m 47s):
Shatters footprints. Yeah. Yes. That's what it was. Footprints.

3 (1h 43m 49s):
Footprints. I think it's 22,000 years. Yeah.

4 (1h 43m 52s):
It shatters.

3 (1h 43m 53s):
That's also, that's just what they found. Yeah. Like who's to say there's not one that's 35,000 years

4 (1h 43m 57s):
Old? Well, we don't have Yeah. This, we we're we're saying that the oldest thing we found is the oldest thing. That's ridiculous. Which is just fucking human.

3 (1h 44m 3s):
It's ridiculous. Yeah. Well that's what they're realizing now with human civilizations. That it's very likely that there was a mass disruption of human civilization from asteroid impacts or something like that. And we had to rebuild. And that's what the pyramids are and that's what a lot of the structures they find even in North America. And you know, catastrophes do happen and I know, we don't wanna believe it, but it's just like the vegans don't wanna believe that they're causing any deaths when they buy their kale. Yeah. It's kind of the same thing. We don't want to, we don't wanna believe that this could ever fall apart and we could be right back to square one. Right. Back to living like nomadic tribal people. But that 100% can happen.

4 (1h 44m 42s):
Well you know what, you know Einstein's famous saying when they asked him what would be the weapon of destruction in World War iii? And he says, I have no idea, but I know what it is in World War iv. And he said, what is it? And he goes, sticks.

3 (1h 44m 55s):
Yeah. It probably doesn't even have to be the war though. That's the problem. The problem is we're in a fucking shooting gallery. We're spinning around in a shooting gallery of massive chunks of space debris that literally is the stuff that forms planets. And it's everywhere. There's so much of it out there. There's hundreds of thousands of near earth objects and there's a whole asteroid belt. And if one of 'em collides with another one and one of 'em coming in from some other place and it hits one and just sends it right towards us. Yeah. And some of them are fucking huge. And when those things hit, that's a rap civilization. Yeah. Whatever people are left.

3 (1h 45m 36s):
Good luck. Yeah. Good luck. You're gonna live like barbarians for the next thousand, 2000 years before people reinvent civilization again. Yeah.

4 (1h 45m 44s):
And, and it'll be interesting to see if it's reinvented the same.

3 (1h 45m 47s):
I don't think it will be. I think, I think there's a certain amount of genetic memory in people and I think even if something horrible happened and we had to start right now from scratch and rebuild civilization, I think I still think we would be better off than people who tried to do that 5,000 years ago or even 10,000 years ago. I, I think the human, the the, the collective human consciousness is something other than just what you know and what you've read. I think there's some shit that's in you in genetics and I think people are better at stuff now than they've ever been before.

3 (1h 46m 28s):
But clearly, if that's the case, clearly whoever built the pyramids, they must have been around way longer. They must have been. They must have been able to have a civilization that thrived way longer than ours at a

4 (1h 46m 42s):
Technological, they still can't figure out how they built it. And, and there's something that I just read about. If you look at its longitude and ag latitude. It's like a perfect one, 1000000th of it's

3 (1h 46m 55s):
Yeah. It's almost perfectly true. North, south, east and west. Yeah. Yeah. It's amazing. Yeah. And it's, whoever did that probably was along the same lines that we're on, they just had way more time to do it. They had, you know, thousands and thousands and thousands of years where we've only had a few hundred, a few hundred of craziness, a few hundred of the industrial revolution, combustion engines, you know, utilization of fossil fuels. All this shit that we're doing now. Nuclear fuel, nuclear weapons. This is real, real, real, real, real recent. Yeah. So if they had some more time than we did that, that's what explains that shit to me. and I think that if we go and then there's a few barbarian people left of, you know, a few thousand all over the planet and they eventually redo civilization, they'll probably do a slightly better job.

3 (1h 47m 43s):
Yeah. I think, I think each group does a slightly better job. Slightly better job than the last. but it probably takes forever. It'll probably take another four or 5,000 years for civilization to really emerge again.

4 (1h 47m 54s):
Are you familiar with the, I'm fascinated with anthropology. Me too. Human anthropology and the fact that we now know that there were four different human species living on the planet. Yeah. At the same fucking time.

3 (1h 48m 7s):
Yeah,

4 (1h 48m 8s):
Yeah. At the same time.

3 (1h 48m 10s):
Yeah. Maybe more.

4 (1h 48m 11s):
Yeah. Homo was still around too. You got the DVARs, you got Neal, you've got your homo sapien and then there was, there was another off some Indonesian island. Yeah.

3 (1h 48m 20s):
The homo florist Flo. I think they, that's how you say it, those little hobbit people. Yeah. Yeah. They think there's still some of those along alive somewhere. There's a thing in some parts of the country, they call them the orang pen deck. And they, in jungles, people have reported seeing these little tiny people, the little tiny hairy people like, you know, 30 years ago, 50 years ago, a hundred years ago. And so there's this, there's this myth of this orang pen deck. And they never took it seriously until they found these little people on the island of Flores. And like some of these jungles are just so insanely dense, like in Vietnam. Yeah. And places like that. Like who knows, there might be a small population of these things still alive today or

4 (1h 49m 2s):
We're

3 (1h 49m 3s):
Alive. Alive

4 (1h 49m 3s):
A hundred years ago. Well there's still a few uncontacted tribes. There's that one in India that every time somebody tries to

3 (1h 49m 7s):
Go there, north Sentinel Island. Yeah.

4 (1h 49m 8s):
Yeah. They'd kill 'em.

3 (1h 49m 9s):
Yeah. Well they didn't use to, you know, when they started killing him, there was a guy named Commander. Yep. Maurice Port Maurice.

4 (1h 49m 17s):
I wanted to make a movie about that.

3 (1h 49m 18s):
Maurice Vidal Portman. Yeah. He was a pervert. And he'd run around fondling people and drawing pictures of them, making them dress up like Roman soldiers and talk about the size of their dicks. Did you know about that? No. Yeah. Yeah. It's like this one, A testicles iss the size of a sparrows egg. Like he was doing science, he's a little pervert. And this guy, he was responsible for getting a bunch of 'em sick and a few people died and they, they even kidnapped people and they tried to raise their kids somewhere else. I think they kidnapped some people, people. But that was a very hostile interaction with white people. So from then on they were like,

4 (1h 49m 53s):
Fuck

3 (1h 49m 54s):
It. Like you see 'em start killing 'em, they're gonna give you, you know, herpes and

4 (1h 49m 58s):
Yeah. They're throwing spears at helicopters.

3 (1h 49m 59s):
They're gonna make fun of your balls. Like, like so that one guy, he just like, did you know air quote science just traveled around to all these islands and fucking with these people.

4 (1h 50m 12s):
Yeah. And now they were like, eh, that's

3 (1h 50m 14s):
All. Yeah. Now they'll fucking kill you. Yeah. They'll fucking kill you. They kill everybody. You can't even get outta the boat. They're already shooting arrows in your direction. Now they have metal too, because they took one of the boats that got stranded there. They had to rescue these people that were stuck on this boat because the North Centel people were coming for them in the boat and they literally had to rescue them in time. But they got onto the boat and then the next time they saw them, they noticed that they had metal weapons. Really? So yeah. So they think they've salvaged pieces of the boat and turned it into knives and sharpened 'em and stuff like that. Really? Yeah. It's crazy. 'cause there's only 39 of them and they're the direct descendants of people who left Africa 60,000 years ago.

3 (1h 50m 56s):
That's crazy. And 'cause they're such a small number of them on this island, the size of Manhattan, they just never passed, like how humans were a hundred thousand years ago or whatever it was, 60,000 years ago. They're they're exactly that. They live exactly the way people lived back then, which is really wild to see, you know, uncontacted tribes, man, that is, that's one of the weirdest windows into the variability.

4 (1h 51m 19s):
Who we, who we are. Who

3 (1h 51m 20s):
We're Yeah. Who we are. But also the variability that you can have people that are driving around electric cars, talking on cell phones and at the same time some guy is sneaking up on a monkey in the jungle with a bow and arrow with a poison tip on it. And you know, and and his family's been doing it that way forever. Yeah. Forever. Yeah. And they're both happening at the same time. You know, that's kind of the wildest part of the story of the people coming to America is that the Native American people lived in this, like, one of the things that's really the, the way was so appealing. The, one of the things that's so interesting about the reports from back then was that people that had left modern air quote Western civilization and moved in with Indians and started living in Indian cultures, they never wanted to go back.

3 (1h 52m 6s):
Yeah. But whenever they took people from, like, when it was Cynthia Ann Parker, when they kidnapped her when she was nine and then they rescued her when she was a woman. She wanted to go back.

4 (1h 52m 17s):
She escaped twice. Yeah.

3 (1h 52m 18s):
She's like, I don't want to be you. This life sucks. Yeah. Like, that's the life, like the living in the tent and fucking chasing the buffalo. That's the life. Everybody said that nobody wanted to go the other way. Yeah. There wasn't people that were dying to like, get educated and fucking be forced into, you know, jobs.

4 (1h 52m 35s):
Well, Quana, who was, who was extremely smart as, as the, as the last chief of, of the Comanche nation. And then when he finally, when he finally went to the reservation of Oklahoma and they said, okay, here you are. He was smart enough and astute enough to, to make a business of it. And you know, there was a few ranchers, Sam Bur Burnett, who was founded the Four Sixes and Wt Wagner and Charles Goodnight, who needed somewhere to graze their cattle because that part of West Texas was having a terrible drought. Oklahoma had a lot of good grass. And they went up and talked to Quana and said, Hey, could we, you know, graze our cattle here, we'll pay you.

4 (1h 53m 18s):
And he was like, you'll pay us. Yeah. We'll pay you. Alright. Yeah. I'll do that. And so it became a, it became a great, you know, partnership that they had and did that for years Really until Congress got wind of it. And they were like, we don't, we don't need those Indian people making money. That's not, we should outlaw that. Which they tried to do. And then Burke Burnett reached out to Teddy Roosevelt and had him come out and he hunted wolves on the, on the Comanche reservation and then down at the four Sixes as well. And, and they convinced him that he got a two year stay before they finally outlawed it. Wow. But in that time, Kwana needed a house.

4 (1h 54m 1s):
'cause he had so many people coming to dignitaries and governors and Teddy and no one would obviously give him a loan. So goodnight. And, and Burnett gave Kwana the money to build the star house where he, where he lived and house people. And, and in his bedroom they called the Star house because he painted the ceiling with stars and he would sleep on the floor, not in the bed, and stare up at the ceilings on his Wow. The stars on the ceiling.

3 (1h 54m 27s):
Wow. Well, I think until people have actually spent a night camping looking up at the stars where there's no light pollution at all. They don't understand it. They don't know the appeal. It's an amazing experience. It's like one of the coolest things you could ever see in your life. And you're denied it. You're denied it because of advanced technology that allows us to light the streets. Yeah. We let lit the streets, but we cut off the majesty of the heavens. 'cause it, it, it humbles you in a way and it grounds you in a way that's soothing and I think that's part of the reason why a lot of people, there's a lot of reasons why people have anxiety, but I I I definitely think that a factor is we're disconnected from the universe.

3 (1h 55m 10s):
We're disconnected from all the things that our ancestors saw when they would go to bed at night and they'd look up, they'd be like, wow, like before you go into bed, what you saw was, wow.

4 (1h 55m 21s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 55m 21s):
Like look at that.

4 (1h 55m 23s):
Well think about you've been to New York. Yeah. I lived there for don don't know, six months. And, and in that time, one day it hit me that I hadn't seen a star and my feet hadn't touched anything but concrete for six months and I and I. I thought, I can't, I can't live like this. That's not good for you. But there's people who have lived their entire lives like that.

3 (1h 55m 48s):
Oh yeah. There's people, my friend Ari loves it. Who loves living like that. I mean he goes to other places too a lot. He travels a lot. So maybe that

4 (1h 55m 55s):
Helps, you know, those people that lifelong New Yorkers that they have to little record the sound of New York so that when they go somewhere, sleep somewhere quiet to sleep, they could play that shit. Sirens and helicopters

3 (1h 56m 5s):
Camping with a guy who does that. You fucking dick. Yeah. There's something about the stars. That's, to me, it's also like the ocean and the mountains in the daytime. And the daytime, the oceans and the mountains offer a similar thing. Like when you see the mountains, when you're, it's one thing to see photos of the mountains, but when you're in their presence, they look beautiful in photos. But they don't, you don't feel them. No. When you're driving through a mountain range and you see like snow c peaks and these beautiful meadows of grass and big trees, it's like, wow. It's like the most amazing art that you could ever experience. But it's nature and I think nature has a way of getting us attracted to places that are fertile and places that would hold life.

3 (1h 56m 52s):
And so when you see the mountains and you see these trees and these valleys on a lake, and like this is very fertile. These fertile places are beautiful to us. Just like fertile people are beautiful to us. Yeah. You know, to see women with large breasts and narrow hips and big waist or a big butt and you're like, oh, narrow waist and big hips. You're like, oh, she could give birth. She's fertile. Like this is what's attractive, perfect symmetry. Oh, she has good genes. She's fertile. Oh, look at him. He's big and tall and handsome. He's, he's fertile. There's like, there's something beautiful about that. To us, it's just nature's way of attracting it to us. So when you're denied, like this thing that literally gives you a certain amount of energy when you, you go through a beautiful place, there's something about it like, wow.

3 (1h 57m 37s):
It's like you're not just living life. You're living life in the presence of this greatness, this insane vision that you could see all around you and I think it humbles people in a way and it grounds people in a way. and I, I think the city does the exact opposite.

4 (1h 57m 53s):
I agree.

3 (1h 57m 54s):
Does the exact opposite. It gives you this weird energy that's like, eh, eh, fuck you. Hey

4 (1h 57m 59s):
Taxi. Yeah. It's an, it's an angry energy. It's a, it's a, it's a, you know, there's, there's herds and there's packs. Right. Herds are the prey animals packs are the hunters. And the city feels full of herds. Yeah. And the, the country feels full of packs.

3 (1h 58m 17s):
Yeah. That makes sense. People much more self-sufficient. One of the more impressive things that I found when I, I went to Alaska once and we were in Anchorage and we were doing shows out there. And I was like, these people feel different. They feel like more sturdy. Yeah. Like I guess if you just live in a place that gets cold as fuck and it doesn't even, like, it wasn't even dark out and it was like two o'clock in the morning, it was till like light outside. Like, so this is a weird place to live. And these people are literally at the mercy of nature and they're surrounded by grizzly bears and wolves and moose. Like everywhere you go, you could see a moose. You could see a moose.

3 (1h 58m 57s):
They show up on college campuses and stomp people. They're everywhere. It's like you're living in a totally different environment than the rest of the world. And because of that, those, the, the people, they're sturdier. They're like more solid. And even when you talk to them, they're just like, they've gone through more to get where they are right now.

4 (1h 59m 15s):
And you know what? They have no interaction with almost none government.

3 (1h 59m 19s):
Right.

4 (1h 59m 20s):
You go to a small town in West Texas, or a small town in rural Wyoming or anywhere. and it, you know, I split my time. We moved to Wyoming in 2013 before I moved back down to Texas. We still spend the summers up at our Ranch there. But it's a town of 175. There's a, the driver's license office is open for an hour on Thursday. There are, there is no, there are no public services. There's, if you want to go to the social security office to get a social security card or turn in some paper, you're driving 12 hours to Cheyenne. So the only interaction, and this is what people in the city don't understand, the only interaction that people in true rural areas have with the government is paying taxes and the military.

4 (2h 0m 11s):
'cause they, most of them join the military at some point. Those are their only two experiences with the federal government. Aside from the rules that the government tells 'em, they don't get any of the benefits that you may or may not get. There's towns in, in California, you go out into San Bernardino County, you go up, you know, somewhere around Visalia and that area and all this money that they're gonna spend on roads and shit and everything else. None of that is making it there. None of it. So their perception of government is what are you gonna, what, what are you gonna make me do? How much money are you gonna take for me? And that's, that's their experience with government.

3 (2h 0m 45s):
Right. They're not gonna get anything out of it. Nothing. That's a wild thing to think. Yeah.

4 (2h 0m 50s):
They give into it, but what do they, what do they extract from it? Right?

3 (2h 0m 53s):
They're,

4 (2h 0m 54s):
If they get to 65, they get an $1,800 a month check that they've been paying. It's the worst investment in history of social security. The worst investment in your future you could possibly make, I'm gonna give you whatever, 8% of my check or 12% of my check for my entire, from, from the day I turn 20 till I'm 65 and retired. And then you're gonna, you're gonna shit out an $1,800 check to me each month. Well, fuck am I gonna do with that?

3 (2h 1m 18s):
Yeah. Can I opt out of that? Are you allowed to opt out of social security?

4 (2h 1m 23s):
You can't. You can't. Seems like

3 (2h 1m 24s):
You should be.

4 (2h 1m 24s):
And if you, and if you could, it would collapse because you, you know, the, the top earners are paying for the entire thing. Yeah. And never, you know, they're never getting it.

3 (2h 1m 35s):
Like there should be some sort of a social safety net for old folks. For sure. Especially for impoverished people For sure. But making people pay into it is where it gets squirrely. Especially if you're not gonna get anything out of it. Like, okay, like, how's this being dulled out? Like, well, well

4 (2h 1m 53s):
At least if you're gonna collect that money, if you did the same thing, if you took the same money and you put it into, and I'm not a big, I'm not a big 4 0 1 KIRA guy. But if you did and you took that same money and invested in just the, just the, the major indexes, you know, you would take that money and multiply it 10 to 20 fold, you'd be a millionaire. I mean fucking millionaire. and don don't know why the government doesn't at least, well they probably do invest it. They just don't give you any of the investment. Yeah.

3 (2h 2m 26s):
Don don't know. Who knows what the fuck they

4 (2h 2m 27s):
Do do. don don't, I don't understand

3 (2h 2m 29s):
The, that's my number one problem has always been with, when people say, you know that we need the rich need to pay more taxes. I'm like, sure, where's it going? Where's it going? Do you know where it's going? Do you know if the people that are taking that money in are competent? Do you know how it's being distributed? Do you have any idea where that money's going? You just gonna trust these people that are so dumb that they work for the government.

4 (2h 2m 50s):
Well, remember that's the $1,300 toilet seats. Yeah. That's, there's no, the government's the most inefficient. They, they, they don't manage our money well because it's not their money.

3 (2h 3m 1s):
Yeah. They don't have to. Yeah. Like whenever you have a situation where you're outside of competition, which the government essentially is, they're the, they run the show. Like if, if you had some sort of a business and your business was really inefficient and always fucked things up and really had terrible strategies and it could never be audited. 'cause your your, your books were always fucked up by like millions is missing every year. There's no way you would survive. There's no way you would survive.

4 (2h 3m 33s):
No. You'd be outta

3 (2h 3m 33s):
Business because someone better would come along. They do a better job. And that's what competition is all about. But as soon as you say you're the, you're the ones that get to do this and, and then everybody has to pay you no matter what. No matter what. No matter if you do a good job or a bad job, You don't have options. Like, hey, this one doesn't seem to be working so well. So there's a private firm that's gonna take over this service. You can opt into that as well. And these people there you go, are much more efficient. And these are some people that actually run businesses and they understand businesses and they're gonna be a publicly traded company. So they're gonna be responsible to the shareholders and they're gonna make some fucking money and they're gonna do it. Right.

4 (2h 4m 7s):
Well, you know, Texas I mean this state makes money. You don't, there's no, there's no deficit here and hasn't been for fuck. Who knows how long they're trying to figure out what to do with all their surplus every year.

3 (2h 4m 20s):
That's interesting. Is it because of oil?

4 (2h 4m 22s):
A lot of it. Yeah.

3 (2h 4m 23s):
What is the percentage from oil

4 (2h 4m 26s):
I know, but a a lot of, you know, they're, they're, they're charging something. You know, California has as much oil as anybody. They just won't extract it. Well

3 (2h 4m 36s):
California is so silly. It's such a silly, they they have the highest deficit they've ever had. California's deficit. What is the California deficit now? It's

4 (2h 4m 45s):
Like 24 billion.

3 (2h 4m 46s):
I think it's a lot more than that. I think it's more than that. I think it's something kooky. I think it was like they just announced it was the highest ever deficit.

4 (2h 4m 57s):
Well, they're running people outta the state. Yeah. I I have more friends that have moved here in the past five years. I don't, I don't know An act. None of the act. Think about this.

3 (2h 5m 7s):
32, 30

4 (2h 5m 8s):
$2 billion deficit.

3 (2h 5m 9s):
That's so crazy. $32 billion for a state. For a state. That's not the country. That's a state. Yeah. One state. $32 billion deficit. That's so kooky, man. Who comptroller reported that legislators will have record. Is this Texas? Yeah. Record surplus of 32 billion. Oh, why don't we just give it to California? Just give it there. Everybody move there anyway. Just give it to California. Yeah. They would fuck that up. Next year would be more

4 (2h 5m 36s):
The thing, the thing that I think, you know, there's this debate about climate change, which by the way, climate's always changing. It was changing before we showed up. Yeah.

3 (2h 5m 46s):
We definitely have an impact on it. No, there you

4 (2h 5m 48s):
Can't have 8 billion people on a planet. 7 billion now 8 billion by the time this fucking podcast is over And not have an effect, we are gonna have an effect anyway. Yeah. But but they found a way to make it accusatory. Everybody was, no one knew that this was bad. We built an entire, not just America, the world built an entire social structure economy on petroleum products starting in the 1880s. And you can't just shut that off. You can, but, but the collapse, the, the amount of death that would happen, starvation, economic collapse. So it's perfectly fine to go, look, we, we, we bet on a horse that has some real complications.

4 (2h 6m 31s):
We need to do one of two things or, or two things. We need to figure out how to access cleaner energy. And we need to figure out if there's a way to make this fuel source that we've based everything on I mean, look, let's look at all the shit on your table made out of oil first and and foremost. That's just all wires we're talking

3 (2h 6m 50s):
Through. Yeah. Yeah. Everything. Yeah. Headphones. Were wearing

4 (2h 6m 52s):
The, the headphones, the soles of my shoes. Yeah. Everything. Yeah. The socks I'm wearing. Yeah. Everything. You can't shut that off. You, you've gotta, you can wean yourself off of it. You can figure out how to make it cleaner. We're more likely to, to run out of oil before we find it's pure replacement, to be perfectly honest. Doesn't mean we shouldn't try, doesn't mean we shouldn't try to, to come up with a cleaner source. But we're probably more likely to put energies toward how do we refine it cleaner? How can we utilize it cleaner while we're trying to figure out what this other thing is.

3 (2h 7m 24s):
Yeah. That's a good solution. The bad solution is decide that you can't talk about any of the things that you've just said and that you have to toe the line. 'cause climate change is caused by humans and climate change is all bad. And we have to go electric. And you just, you have this very surface view of what the complex problem in front of everybody is. And then it becomes a thing. and it could become a thing just like nine 11 became a thing. So after that thing, like we got attacked, now we can do action. And then everybody agrees that action's important. We need to, and like even as ridiculous as going to Iraq, like why are we going over there?

3 (2h 8m 5s):
That's also something that will happen with climate change. If you have a thing where everybody tells you, you have to comply, this is necessary, we're all gonna die. And meanwhile, every one of their predictions has always been wrong. I mean, if you go back to Al Gore's

4 (2h 8m 19s):
Convenient truth jar, supposed to no snow by 2006 or something like that.

3 (2h 8m 22s):
All bullshit all wrong. No one guesses it. Right. But that aside, the problem is you are putting in new control. You're putting in a new mandate, a new narrative. This narrative is you have to do this because if we don't, we're gonna, we're all gonna die. Okay? So everybody has to get on board and our patients is wearing thin and everybody has to get on board. Why are you driving an internal combustion engine? Why are you still okay? But also people are making money in this conversion. You have to understand there's businesses that are set up that are being positively affected by this conversion. They're gonna make a fuck load of money. And those are the ones that are gonna influence people to pass legislation that mandates things and make sure that we have only electric cars by 2035.

3 (2h 9m 5s):
Right. But

4 (2h 9m 6s):
How are we gonna propel those electric cars?

3 (2h 9m 8s):
Well, how's the, how about what's, where are you getting all the fucking conflict minerals? The craziest thing about electric cars and electric everything. Well, it's all is cobalt mining

4 (2h 9m 17s):
In lithium, it's all in China.

3 (2h 9m 19s):
It's not just in China. It's in the Congo. And they're using slaves to pull it outta the ground.

4 (2h 9m 22s):
Well, where you start digging into the Congo, you start getting into some pretty precious resources there in Virunga in that area. I mean that is a world heritage site. It creates like an absurd amount of our oxygen. I mean, it's an, it's a, it's an extremely important region that is unfortunately extremely mineral rich.

3 (2h 9m 41s):
Yeah. And the story of where, how they get the minerals out. This a guy, Sidharth Cara came on the podcast and he was a journalist that was got embedded in these cobalt mines and got these footage, this fucking insane footage of sen slave labor essentially. So people have dirt floors, they have no money. They have no food, they have no options. They're, they're carrying their babies on their back while they're mining cobalt. So they're getting all this cobalt dust everywhere. They so they're all getting poisoned. They're all of a host of fucking diseases that are coming about from this toxic fumes. The shit they're chipping outta the ground. Yeah. And that's what powers all of our electrical devices. That's a part of it.

4 (2h 10m 23s):
But the other big problem that, that no one wants to talk about and I and I think that the debate needs to be approached from the standpoint of, we've got one side that says, gotta be proof that the world's gonna end. I don't need to show you proof I said it. Right. I don do this bullshit. Okay. Let's just say that we took a corner of Utah and we just solar paneled that fucker and we made enough electricity for the entire nation. Guess what? We can't do get it anywhere because the grid, we do not have the pipeline or the grid. California's maxed out. They can't bring it anymore. They've gotta run a, they've gotta run pipeline. They've gotta run wires. They're maxed out.

4 (2h 11m 4s):
They can't get enough power to the cities as it is. They're doing fucking rolling blackouts. They're telling people to not charge their electric vehicles in the summer.

3 (2h 11m 11s):
They said that like two weeks after they made the mandate for 2035. Yeah.

4 (2h 11m 15s):
Yeah. So maybe figure out how you're gonna get the electricity to the cities.

3 (2h 11m 21s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 11m 22s):
And I'm a big supporter. Fuck. Especially there. Throw solar panels on top of everything. Yeah. Why wouldn't you?

3 (2h 11m 27s):
Why wouldn't you's free power. Yeah.

4 (2h 11m 29s):
Do

3 (2h 11m 29s):
It. Yeah. It's free power and it does work. It definitely, you can power your house with solar you hundred big up yard and you've sun out. Especially in LA where it's sunny all the time. Yeah.

4 (2h 11m 38s):
It's inexcusable to not do it. Every new house should have 'em.

3 (2h 11m 41s):
Yeah. But the problem is it's just, boy, you're dealing with so many people. That's the problem. Like, like if you wanted to come into California right now and you wanted to manage it correctly, and you wanted to fix all the wrongs and you wanted to clean up the streets and stop all the crime, like you couldn't even do it. You couldn't even do it. There's, there's too many people that are against you. There's too many people that no matter how badly they fail doing it in a certain direction, they're gonna keep going in that direction. They're gonna double down. Yeah.

4 (2h 12m 13s):
And they're gonna try, you know, and, and now there's so many people leaving California, they're trying to come up with this new tax where if you leave California for the next 10 years Yeah. You still have to somehow pay.

3 (2h 12m 25s):
Isn't that nuts?

4 (2h 12m 26s):
Well, it's just, it's nonsense.

3 (2h 12m 28s):
It's nonsense. You can't, you can't do it. No you can't. It's, it's not legal. But also you fucking criminals. Like you suck and you know, you suck. So when people are leaving, you're like, whoa, we still want money. No, we're leaving. 'cause you suck. Like that's what states are about. You get to move to a new state and this state's got different laws. Yeah. I like this one better. Bye. Yeah. That's it. We're not, we don't have a agreement where I'm, we're not paying alimony. I wasn't married to you bitch. Yeah. Like I gotta go. Yeah. See you later. Gotta go see bye. Yeah, yeah,

4 (2h 12m 55s):
Yeah. Figure it out. I got the random California letter. Like, are you sure you don't owe us any money? The guy haven't lived there in 10 fucking years trying.

3 (2h 13m 3s):
They

4 (2h 13m 3s):
Haven't been there in five

3 (2h 13m 5s):
I mean when you have a 34 or $32 billion deficit,

4 (2h 13m 8s):
Hey

3 (2h 13m 8s):
You,

4 (2h 13m 9s):
You cast it out there. See if you can catch it.

3 (2h 13m 11s):
You gotta fucking send dudes out. Like let's go.

4 (2h 13m 13s):
But now they're talking about in Incre. You know, here's, here's one of the things that I've always found interesting because everyone knows this and no one says it when they talk about the top 1% of the 1% that they don't pay income tax. You know the, the average, the guy that makes 80,000 a hundred thousand years is paying higher percentage than those guys. Well yes, because you know what billionaires don't get. They don't get a paycheck. They don't get a W2. All those leaders of the all the head of this bank or that bank, they're getting a dollar. That's their salary. And they're getting stocks. And until they sell the stock, we don't know what the stock's worth. Everyone talks about Elon Musk is worth 140, however many billions.

4 (2h 13m 55s):
No, he is not. If he's tried to sell all his stock today and get that, he would collapse all his companies. Collapse 'em. You can't do it. Same with Bezos. Same with any of those guys. So it's paper wealth. Are they extremely wealthy? Sure. Where do they get their money from? Well, they sell a million shares here. They sell a million there. Maybe they take a line of credit out off of their shares. don don't know. Yeah. But they don't get a paycheck.

3 (2h 14m 16s):
Right, exactly.

4 (2h 14m 18s):
And you can't tax an unrealized gain. 'cause we don't know what it's worth. It's Did they find a loop pull Of course they did. They're billionaires. Yeah. They're smart guys.

3 (2h 14m 27s):
They're not paying their share. But if you look at the share, like that's the narrative in New York City. But have you ever seen the New York City tax breakdown? Like what? How much of the taxes paid by wealthy people?

4 (2h 14m 38s):
Oh, I'm sure it's 60%, 65%. It's an

3 (2h 14m 41s):
Enormous percent of a small percentage of the population. It's paying an enormous percent of the taxes

4 (2h 14m 46s):
And

3 (2h 14m 46s):
It still

4 (2h 14m 46s):
Chaos. Well, let's just say Jeff Bezos is worth, let's just say he's worth a hundred billion and if he gets his effective tax rate down to 10%, he's paying $10 billion. So how many people making a hundred thousand dollars? And on the same thing now now you they're paying 10,000 on their a hundred thousand. I'm no mathematician. But how many 10,000 times What equals 10 billion? 10,000. A hundred thousand. Million million.

3 (2h 15m 17s):
Isn't it 10,000 times a million? Something

4 (2h 15m 19s):
Like that? Yeah.

3 (2h 15m 19s):
Or a hundred million. What is that Jack?

4 (2h 15m 22s):
It'd be 10,000 tons. It'd be 10,000 tons. 1,000,010.

7 (2h 15m 25s):
100 millions would be a

4 (2h 15m 26s):
Billion.

3 (2h 15m 27s):
Okay. 10 times a hundred million. All right. That's a lot of money kids.

4 (2h 15m 32s):
So it takes a hundred million people to make the same amount of taxes. Yeah.

3 (2h 15m 35s):
And also if their stock drops, like if they, they pay that much in stock and then the stock drops the next year. Like what are you gonna do then? Now, now they have to pay less, but now they have even less. Yeah.

4 (2h 15m 46s):
But they can't, they can't even sell it all. He couldn't sell, Bezos could not sell Right. 20% of his, of his holdings without dramatically negatively affecting the stock price. Right. So if he sold the don don't know what it what it's trading at, but let's say it's trading at, let's keep it round numbers a hundred dollars. Okay. If he sold his first million shares at a hundred, he's selling his next, at 90, he's selling his next at 80. And then there's a, then it's on fucking M-S-N-B-C and now it's worth 30. Yeah. And then SEC calls and goes, I stop trading. Something's happening. Yeah. I'm trying to sell my shit. So it, it's, it's mythical numbers. It's

3 (2h 16m 22s):
It is weird. It's weird when you think about it that way. Yeah. So that's why they're not paying taxes on all that money kids, because

4 (2h 16m 30s):
There's not money yet. Yeah,

3 (2h 16m 33s):
Yeah. People don't like to hear that. It's the truth. They like to hear that. The problem is with the wealthy, people aren't paying enough. They don't want to hear it's incompetent bureaucrats. You have a fucking gigantic machine that is very inefficient, that's running this country that does not want to ever give up that position. Yeah. And they want your money. Yeah. They want a percentage of your money. If you don't give it to them, they're gonna come after you. Like gangsters, they're gonna lock you and put you in a cage. Yeah. And if you owe them money, it's not good enough to pay that money back. Now you have to be punished because you owe that money. Yeah. It's the only kind of debt that you really get, like fucking for sure. Locked up in a cage for.

4 (2h 17m 10s):
Yeah. and I look, I, I spent way more of my life being broke than having money. And, and I do get a paycheck and Uncle Sam takes a massive chunk of it. It's did

3 (2h 17m 21s):
They take a chunk? They

4 (2h 17m 21s):
Take a chunk.

3 (2h 17m 22s):
It's interesting. It's a lot of money. But I wouldn't mind if I thought they were doing a great job.

4 (2h 17m 29s):
I wouldn't either.

3 (2h 17m 29s):
I wouldn't mind, I wouldn't mind if the,

4 (2h 17m 32s):
The machine worked Well, if one thing hit, did just one thing worked. Yeah. Just one. Let one of them work. Let one of these programs work. Yeah.

3 (2h 17m 39s):
But this is a narrative that kids get when they're in college and they get introduced to Marxism. The, the narrative is that, you know, it just hasn't been done correctly. And that in, in an equal and just society, you wouldn't have such disparity of income. and I understand that this capitalism thing that we're running is not perfect. It's not perfect, but it's the best system that we've ever seen. And the thing about what everyone's saying when it comes to equality of income, you need to take into consideration equality of effort, equality of focus. Sure. There's people that have become wealthy doing shady things and ripping people off and finding legal loopholes to extract money.

3 (2h 18m 23s):
For sure. No if ands or buts about it. But also people have put in insane amounts of work and focus and dedication to whatever the fuck it is and become way better at it than other people. And gotten very successful too. And their businesses have blown up and now they sell, you know, X amount of units at Walmart and this and that. But what the fuck did that guy have to do to do that? And are you willing to do that? You probably aren't. So there's a competition going on. And that guy's way ahead in the regular competition, not the stealing competition, not the taking advantage of people. He's way ahead. And that guy has been an insane worker for 30 years.

3 (2h 19m 5s):
Yeah. So if you come along and say, that guy needs to pay his share and this is the reason why the world's all fucked. Well, no, you have a juvenile perspective. Part of the reason why the world's all fucked is that there are people out there that only deal in numbers and they're just throwing numbers around and betting on this and betting on that. And they're all doing coke and they're fucking going crazy and flying around in jets. And everybody wants the newest watch that those people are real too. For sure. But there's also a lot of people that are doing the same thing you are trying to do. They just did it better and they did it for longer and now they're 70 and they're worth a billion dollars or whatever the fuck they're worth. And he's not the evil of the world. That's just called success.

4 (2h 19m 46s):
Yeah. Now there are definitely people that are manipulating the system. A hundred percent. And if we, if we decided to become a communist party tomorrow, those same thieves will be the leaders of the communist party. Yeah. They will find their way

3 (2h 20m 1s):
A hundred,

4 (2h 20m 1s):
But then they'll be just as fucking rich.

3 (2h 20m 3s):
A hundred percent. 100%.

4 (2h 20m 5s):
But the guy that goes and takes the idea and builds the business and

3 (2h 20m 9s):
Yeah. If you have communism, you're not gonna get rid of psychopaths. You're not gonna get rid of sociopaths or just opportunists. They're just gonna integrate into opportunists. They're just gonna integrate into that system. I mean, how much does that drive us? Nuts about politicians. If we think that a politician's full of shit, it's like, oh, you're fucking bullshitting. You're bullshitting to get to that spot. And then when you get to that spot, you're gonna benefit from it. So you're just playing the world. You're playing us off. And that drives everybody nuts. and it should because that's the problem. The problem is not the system that's in place. The problem is who exploits the system? Who fucking wants to be president?

4 (2h 20m 44s):
Oh God.

3 (2h 20m 45s):
Who wants that job? I mean? You know, one, one of the things you said to me that I really liked when we were on the phone, you were like, I'm trying to be less famous. Like, don don't wanna do your show to get famous.

4 (2h 20m 54s):
Yeah. Like, I just,

3 (2h 20m 56s):
This is the last fucking thing I want. No. Like good. That's a healthy way to look

4 (2h 20m 60s):
At it. So you have to, the only reason to want the job because it is so unpleasant.

3 (2h 21m 4s):
It's so unpleasant.

4 (2h 21m 5s):
It is. Is either a, for the most part you crave power that much.

3 (2h 21m 11s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 21m 12s):
Or b, you, you crave fame that much.

3 (2h 21m 15s):
Yeah. You'd be the most famous, most powerful person in the planet. Yeah. Essentially, if you're the president of the United States.

4 (2h 21m 22s):
'cause there's some really, really smart, good, thoughtful people that care a lot about the country on both sides of the aisle. Yeah. And none of 'em are running for these offices. They don't wanna

3 (2h 21m 33s):
Wade through that shit to get to that spot. That's the oddest thing about Trump is that he just fucking like a, like water off a duck's back. He just wades through that shit. And that's what I think drives people the most crazy. It's part of what they call Trump derangement syndrome is not just outrage about what he has said or what he has done that's infuriated people. It's his ability to fucking brush it off. Like it's nothing. It's not hitting him, it's not hurting him. They want to hurt him. So then you're seeing these lawsuits now, now you're seeing, you know, these, these crimes that he's being accused of.

3 (2h 22m 16s):
Now you're seeing all this shit that's going down. Like Rudy Giuliani just gets hit with $149 million lawsuit with these two ladies. He has to declare bankruptcy. Like this is, you know, you're seeing all of this stuff that's happening and they're just feverishly trying, like Colorado removed him from the ballot. Now he has to appeal that Colorado removed him from the ballot because they said he was an insurrectionist. Just wild, wild that you get to make that decision because if somebody else comes along and that precedent is set and it goes the other way now, well

4 (2h 22m 51s):
Here's the interesting thing about that. And, and he has not been convicted of that. No. So you have a court of law. This is what's dangerous. And, and everyone has to forget blind hatred of Trump for a second.

3 (2h 23m 4s):
Right? Yeah. Forget it. And just look at the, the structure of our society,

4 (2h 23m 7s):
The put the widget in there. Yeah. Insert X is the person. Right, right, right. X has not been convicted of a crime. A a a A Supreme Court looks at evidence that was not presented. They, they got it from wherever they got it from with no defense and makes a decision that's dangerous shit. and it, and it may not feel dangerous to people right now who think at any cost keep Trump from being president again. But what happens when that same methodology is used against someone that you do sport? Well, you know, once you open Pandora's box. Exactly. Exactly. And the rule of law is, is malleable.

4 (2h 23m 47s):
Exactly. That's what people, that's when I say I'm talking about how is this, how is the, the action of today gonna affect the, the world that, that my son's trying to raise a child in? Yes. That's what's terrifying to me is there's so much irrational emotional behavior around our government, around our government.

3 (2h 24m 6s):
And also that's,

4 (2h 24m 6s):
You can get on the view and say whatever wacky shit you wanna say, but when we're talking about courts of law, right? Like everyone needs to, our government was built. You've got an executive branch, a legislative branch in a judicial branch, and it was built to operate very slowly. It was built to, to be impervious of the emotion. That's the whole reason we're a republic and not a democrat, a democracy. Because the founding fathers said, Hey, you know what? People get real emotional if they can just vote on anything. And, and you could look at California as an example because it only takes like 20,000 signatures to get something on a ballot, which is how they've passed some feel good emotional laws that have actually had some real adverse effects on that state.

4 (2h 24m 48s):
Yeah. And, and that's the whole reason we're representative government. And when we can just start arbitrarily changing the rule of law and the nature of the courts that will be used against us as a people, it will be used against us.

3 (2h 25m 4s):
It certainly will be. And that's what's so disturbing about today's shortsightedness. And that's what's scary about a person like Trump. What's scary is not him. It's the reaction to him. It's that this, the fact that he is able to brush these things off. They keep coming after him with all these different things and none of them have really taken him out yet. And so they're just furious about it. They're so angry and that makes them more likely. You know what? I think they're so angry. Use that defense. Like, we gotta stop Hitler.

4 (2h 25m 29s):
So the first debate in 2016 or 15 or whenever it was, was on CNN. And they put Trump, who at the time is, you know, he's on the Apprentice, he's got his show and they put him front and center. There's two or three governors up there, there's a senator up there, there's all these other there, there's Rubio's up there. Jet Bush is up there from Florida. I'm not saying that they're, I'm just saying that we have seasoned politicians and CNN put him front and center and, and and, and said, alright, wait for these firecrackers to go off. This is gonna be great. This is gonna be great. And the Republican party was freaking out, whoa, what's going on here?

4 (2h 26m 12s):
And there was even debate if they were gonna ratify him as a, as the nominee at that point. And they were, the media was sitting back going, look, the ratings are through the roof. This is great. and I think we're kind of, this is gonna work out great for Hillary. And all of a sudden he gets elected. And, and the media was complicit in that. and I think one of the things that pisses them off more than anything is that they put 'em there. Yeah. They put, I

3 (2h 26m 38s):
Think you're right. That's part of it. but it, it's also, he's such an easy opponent to rally people against. If you're on that other side and when people, when people are very ideologically based and you, you can connect one person to all the things that you hate, whether it's, you know, he's xenophobic, he's racist, he's this, he's that, he's gonna stop, he's ignorant to climate change. This is a problem. It's a threat to our democracy. He said he'd be a dictator for a day. All these different narratives that get spread out and then people act on that emotion. They're just very easy to manipulate. When you have a guy that is boisterous, has said ridiculous things and does talk the way he talks.

3 (2h 27m 21s):
It's just easy if he's the opponent to get people rallied up and come up with these really irrational things like what we're talking about, like removing him from the ballot. Like these are crazy things like you can't do unless a guy is actually guilty and proven of it. Like they have to be convicted of this. And what if they go to appeal? Does this, what happens then that takes years. Like

4 (2h 27m 45s):
There's a decent chance that the fever to get him will be the thing that gets him reelected.

3 (2h 27m 51s):
I think so, I think it's sort of along the same lines as what happened with CNN during the first election. They thought that they were going to highlight how ridiculous he is and it was gonna crush him. And then Hillary was gonna come along as this very competent, seasoned politician, secretary of state shoo in first woman president. Everybody's excited. And people didn't buy it. Yeah. They didn't buy it. And, and now they're terrified it's gonna happen again because Bidet is way more vulnerable than Hillary. Hillary was at least a seasoned politician. The wife of one of our most famous politicians,

4 (2h 28m 25s):
Very articulate speakers,

3 (2h 28m 26s):
Very articulate lawyer, you know, knew how to handle herself just, and Bidet is barely there. Like he can't debate Trump. It's not even possible anymore. It can't happen anymore. We all know it can't happen. It barely happened in 2020. But the, the idea of that happening again in 2024, no one believes that. No one believes that

4 (2h 28m 49s):
We're in a spot. I mean

3 (2h 28m 50s):
We're in a, we're in a crazy spot. We're in a spot. And then Bobby Kennedy drops outta the Democrats and now he's an independent. And you're like, okay, that's not, that's not ideal. Like ideal was they primary, him and Kennedy wins. But then there's all this, this, there's different people that don't want that primary to take place. And so he makes this decision to become independent. I think they were gonna try to block him from primaries in some way

4 (2h 29m 18s):
One of the things that's that, and it's been trending this way since the eighties. You know, the primary system is where, is where this, the wheels really start to fall off because the primaries are controlled by the extremes of the base. Right. And, and they, the

3 (2h 29m 32s):
Registered voters is of the Democratic and Republican party.

4 (2h 29m 35s):
And, and the more vitriolic it gets, the more it pushes both sides further. Yeah. And, and so the further we go to the extreme, that is gonna be the choice, man.

3 (2h 29m 51s):
I really think Bobby Kennedy could have won. I think if he beat, if he won in the primary and then it's him against Trump, I think there's a lot of people that would've voted for Bobby Kennedy. I don't know if it'd be enough to, to make him elected, but I think that would be a viable candidate. and

4 (2h 30m 7s):
I don't know enough about him. I've seen him, I've seen him speak some, I think I saw him on your podcast. and it seems like an articulate guy. I don't know enough about him, but,

3 (2h 30m 17s):
Well, he was an environmental lawyer forever. I mean, he's one of the main reasons why the Hudson River got cleaned up holding corporations accountable for environmental pollution. That was what he did for the, the longest part before all this vaccine stuff. That was his big thing. That was his big quest. And just incredibly knowledgeable guy. Like when, when you talk to him, I mean not perfect. He's a human being, but like a viable candidate. Like a guy who like would I think make a great leader, but they didn't want him. They don't that that's, I I felt the same way when Tulsi Gabbard was running. I'm like, okay, you got everything you want here. You got a, a brilliant woman who's a, a, a veteran, was deployed overseas twice in medical units.

3 (2h 30m 59s):
Like put together people that got blown up, Congresswoman for eight years, articulate from Hawaii, woman of color. You got everything. You got everything you want there. But you don't want her. Why? Because you can't control her. Because she's independent and she has like these rock solid moral values. And she's not playing ball. She's not playing ball. You don't like it. And so this best case scenario that you had that you've always said you've been looking for, now you're ignoring that one. Well what, like, what are you doing?

4 (2h 31m 30s):
What are you doing?

3 (2h 31m 31s):
You're, you're playing a weird game. You're controlling what the people get to choose on. You're not just controlling. Once you get into office, you're controlling What do people get to choose who gets into office? And that's what fuels conspiracy theories about the Illuminati and the people that are secretly controlling the story. If you don't, you wonder why all those shows are so popular. And all those Reddit conspiracy threads are so popular. They're so popular because it's obvious. People are conspiring. We're not fucking stupid. We're not stupid like that. That's the whole point of the Bernie Sanders thing. Bernie Sanders, the Democratic party was trying to keep him from fucking ruining the primaries with hi with Hillary. Yeah. And they conspired.

3 (2h 32m 12s):
They, they worked together to keep that guy out. 'cause they didn't think he was gonna play ball and he probably wouldn't

4 (2h 32m 16s):
Have. No,

3 (2h 32m 18s):
It's a weird thing that people find these justifications of rationalizations for doing something that's completely opposite of the structure that was put in place by the founding fathers to prevent tyranny. They put this stuff in place, they made it, they set up in a very specific way that there was all these checks and balances. So it was insanely difficult for someone to become a tyrant.

4 (2h 32m 41s):
Yeah. But but we, we have the landscape now. Yeah. That's being laid out. That's ripe for one.

3 (2h 32m 48s):
Well that's what makes it so dangerous about social media today. And that's what makes it so dangerous about having a guy like Trump who is either loved or hated. That's it. It's either one or the other.

4 (2h 32m 59s):
Yeah. There's not a lot of in between,

3 (2h 33m 0s):
There's not a lot of people that are like, eh, he is all right. Just like you either love that guy or you hate that guy. And as an, an enemy, as like a force that you could root against, you know, that's, it's a natural inclination for, look, I went to a fucking high school football game the other day and it was Houston playing against Austin. Great game. Incredible how good these guys are in high school.

4 (2h 33m 25s):
Oh, well here. Incredible

3 (2h 33m 26s):
Game. Incredible game in Texas. Football is a fucking religion. It was amazing. but it, my point is, when you go to this thing, everybody is angry at the people from Houston and the people from Houston are angry at the people from Austin. They're like,

10 (2h 33m 46s):
Bullshit. But that fucking call sucks. This ref sucks. They're so, these are your fucking state. This is your fellow people. They live two hours away. You could drive for two hours, you can go visit 'em. What the fuck?

3 (2h 33m 58s):
We are so tribal that we're tribal even inside our state with fucking kids playing football.

4 (2h 34m 5s):
And it's, and I think a lot of it's this fucking hundred

3 (2h 34m 8s):
Percent. A hundred percent. Yeah.

4 (2h 34m 10s):
It gives equal voice to someone who you would never care what, what their opinion is.

3 (2h 34m 14s):
Phones and social media. Yeah. A

4 (2h 34m 16s):
Hundred percent. That's why I don't do it. That's why I'm, why I'm not on that shit.

3 (2h 34m 18s):
Good for you. Yeah. I don. I wonder if I would do it if I wasn't, if I didn't use it for my business. I, I'm still find, I find value in it. There's, there's definitely some value in being exposed to interesting things because I'm exposed to a lot of interesting things. But it's, you gotta be real careful with that trickle. You gotta be real careful about how much you turn that spigot on. 'cause it's really, it could really fucking flood your house. There's

4 (2h 34m 42s):
A lot of people living in the garage, apartment over mama's house that have nothing to do. Yeah. But sit here and fucking troll

3 (2h 34m 50s):
And it just, and troll and just even just waste your time. Yeah. Scrolling through things. Forget about the negative aspects of it. The people doing negative things, but just wasting your fucking time. You gotta be careful. 'cause you, you, you could like look at girls doing squats for like four hours and you go, where did the time go? I didn't get anything done. And it's also dividing us and it's, it's creating these bubbles, these echo chambers where people get in and I find them all the time online. I'll find someone saying something ridiculous. Like there was some post where this lady in Canada, she just did a, a press conference like a couple days ago where she's doing this press conference telling everybody to get vaccinated and wearing a mask at a press conference.

3 (2h 35m 37s):
And I'm like, Canada has a fucking time machine. They just brought us back to 2020. Like this lady was on recommending for kids. I'm not, if they get vaccinated with a mask on.

4 (2h 35m 46s):
You know what? On camera. You know what's fascinating to me? We, we, this whole, this whole vaccine thing is one of the most fascinating things I've ever sat back and witnessed. Yeah. That again comes back to that rule of law and you know, right. Of privacy, right. Of, you know, independent decisions about your body. All these things that are, and yet we start, if You don't get vaccinated, people are getting kicked out. They were losing their jobs. Yeah. And, and, and then it turns out, oh, whoops. It doesn't prevent you from getting it, it doesn't prevent you from transmitting it. Hmm.

3 (2h 36m 24s):
And it might have a host of side effects. Whoops.

4 (2h 36m 26s):
And then it's just kind of like went away and, and every now then you'll see a commercial, catch your booster. But all the, all the, you're losing your job. You're, you know, they were vilifying people.

3 (2h 36m 36s):
They were vilifying people. And in Canada at least they're trying to bring it back. I just, I can't, watching that video was like bananas. You see this lady giving a

4 (2h 36m 45s):
Orwellian is

3 (2h 36m 46s):
What it is. She's, but she's wearing a mask and there's no one near her. She's in front of a, a podium. She's wearing a mask.

4 (2h 36m 54s):
I, I was saying it earlier. I, I I see people driving by themselves. Yeah. Wearing a mask.

3 (2h 36m 59s):
Yeah. It's an anxiety thing. It's, there's, it's a mental illness thing as well. It's also a delusional thing because it doesn't, if you look at it scientifically, it doesn't work. It's just doesn't work. You know, like Right. Those cloth masks that people wear, those like little surgical masks doesn't, they just don't do jack

4 (2h 37m 14s):
Shit. Well they told, they told us they didn't work for the first six weeks or eight weeks of the deal. Yeah. Fauci stood up there and said, Hey, it doesn't work. In fact, you're more likely Yeah. To get it if you wear a mask. 'cause You don't know how to wear a mask. Which kind kind of sounded like bullshit to me. But that's what he said. And then he is like, ah, I can't hurt. And then about a month later you have to, yeah, where's the scientific data for any of this?

3 (2h 37m 38s):
Don don't know what happened there. Maybe Nancy Pelosi had a mass stock.

4 (2h 37m 42s):
Maybe they all did.

3 (2h 37m 45s):
I mean, I get why you would think it would work, but as soon as you know that it doesn't work, we should move to science then. 'cause if you're saying trust the science, okay, well the science seems to indicate that it doesn't work. So maybe we thought it worked. We did some studies. We found out not only does it not work, but there's also problems that come from wearing dirty masks. There's also a thing where you're not supposed to, if you have those like really tight ones, like those N 90 fives, whatever, you're not supposed to wear them for long periods of time. They're not designed for that. Well,

4 (2h 38m 9s):
They're cutting your oxygen.

3 (2h 38m 10s):
Yeah. They're designed for short periods of time. They're also increasing the amount of carbon dioxide. Yeah. It's not good. And it's also your bacteria is spraying on the mask. It's growing inside the mask. You're breathing that in. Who knows what the fuck's going on there.

4 (2h 38m 24s):
It was science was conveniently used. Yeah. Again, we politicized a a a a pandemic. Right. And, and, and they haven't figured out how to un that genie's not fitting back in the

3 (2h 38m 36s):
Bottle. It was also one of the rare times where people were told not to do your own research.

4 (2h 38m 41s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 38m 42s):
Don't do your own research. Trust the science. Like that was a narrative. Yeah. Like trust. Who you brought to you by Pfizer on fucking CNN. This is crazy. I can't believe this is even real. This is so, it's so Orwellian. It's so propagate. Like if it was in a film, a dystopian film about the future, you'd be like, how did they get that stupid? That's, that seems weird. That they would be that dumb. That it's a brought to you by Pfizer. Don't do your own research. Do your own research. What are you a conspiracy theorist? Are you an anti-vaxxer? You are the reason why people are dying. Like you'd be like this movie's nuts. But that's exactly what it was. The fucking White House. Put out a press sec, well press report that said that for the un the vaccinated.

3 (2h 39m 27s):
Don't worry, you've done your part. But for the unvaccinated, you're looking at a winter of severe illness and death. This is when, when it was mild. This is what the mild strain that was killing probably less people than the flu. What are you talking about?

4 (2h 39m 44s):
It, it, it, it, it, it was the, it's the craziest thing I've ever seen.

3 (2h 39m 48s):
It's nuts. It's nuts. And now we're finding out that the government was paying social media sites and paying media to go after anti-vaxxers.

4 (2h 40m 0s):
You know, they

3 (2h 40m 1s):
Were paying them

4 (2h 40m 2s):
The, the, the thing that I think is the, the greatest casualty of the past, really, I'm gonna say six to eight years. But, but, but with 2020 with, with the vaccine, with everything you go back to, and look again, I'm not a sup. I'm not a saying, I'm a supporter, but, but I mean when you sit here and say, this is a hoax. That's a hoax. Oh. Turns out it's not a hoax. This is not true. This was that. Oh no. Turns out that is true. That this is Yeah,

3 (2h 40m 28s):
This is misinformation. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (2h 40m 31s):
And then we just try and wash it under the rug. And we just don't look over here. Look over here. Don't, don't look at the fucking thousands of homeless in San Francisco that are all suddenly gone the day before the whatever they call the Prime Minister of China or Premier or whatever. That's fucking

3 (2h 40m 46s):
Gone. The Xi Jinping thing. Yeah. Streets

4 (2h 40m 48s):
Are spotless.

3 (2h 40m 49s):
I was just looking through my phone to try to find that video, Jamie. See if you can find it. Of that lady announcing that people should, should be boosted I know, God damnit, I should have saved it. But maybe it's end wokeness on Twitter. Maybe he had it. So one of those accounts that I follow,

4 (2h 41m 2s):
The, the great casualty of this is gonna be mainstream media. They're gonna Yeah. They're gonna lose. Because as soon as you lose trust in a news source, it, it becomes not a news source unless it's telling you what you want to hear. So now these major news publications that we all relied on for unbiased news or largely unbiased news, are no longer that. And so all you can turn to is the one that at least you agree with.

3 (2h 41m 30s):
Right.

4 (2h 41m 30s):
Okay.

3 (2h 41m 31s):
So then they become, they become activists.

4 (2h 41m 33s):
And so then Yes. And so then you keep dividing us. And then as we come up with new pick the issue of the week that we now are confronted with, it wasn't an issue a week ago. Now we're divided over that and we just keep getting carved into smaller and smaller groups.

3 (2h 41m 47s):
Yeah. And that would definitely be in the favor of people who wanna keep us divided and going after each other so they can continue to tighten their grip on what we can and can't do. Have

4 (2h 42m 0s):
You ever looked, have you ever seen the, the Green Bere Handbook has basically a pyramid of how to overthrow a country.

3 (2h 42m 6s):
Really? Yeah. I got piss. Can we hold that thought? Yeah. Yeah. Come back with the Green Beret pyramid. Yeah, I wanna hear that. Alright, we'll be right back. We're back. The Green Beret handbook on how to overthrow a country. So how's that work?

4 (2h 42m 18s):
Yeah. Well, I'm gonna get it wrong. But essentially it it, it really begins with dividing of people and, and creating a lack of faith in the government. And the more that you can, if you can start to infiltrate institutions, like institutions of education, if you can start to, if you can start to, and then chances are very high that you know our enemies and we have them as the United States. We certainly have enemies that have a lot of money and a lot of technical power and time and play the long game and have been injecting these things for 30, 40 years into our, into our society.

4 (2h 42m 58s):
But if you, we could probably pull it up somewhere. I bet he could find a

3 (2h 43m 2s):
Well that's the Yuri Besman off thing. Yeah. You, you've seen that video right on YouTube? No, U bes. Oh, you haven't? It's amazing. No, it's a guy in 1984, he's a defector from the KGB is explaining the ideological subversion that they've imparted in these American institutions. How they've done that. Exactly what you're talking about. How they started injecting Marxism and Leninism. Yeah. And he's talking about how many generations it takes before you destroy the morale of the country and all faith and democracy. And it's essentially what we're seeing now, what he was saying there has already begun this ideological subversion. And he lays it all out in 1984 in an interview. Yeah. You have to see it.

4 (2h 43m 38s):
Paul Harvey, you know who that is. Sure. So he did a thing, God, back in the sixties or seventies, and he equated it to the devil. And maybe it is, or you could also say it's, it's, it's just that. But he did a radio piece on, on how to destroy America, the social fabric of it. Wow. And it's, and it's as though somebody just took America, the social fabric of America from the late sixties to today and, and the timeline and of the things that he said, it's pretty wicked. It's pretty powerful.

3 (2h 44m 9s):
Wow. I'm not shocked. I mean, if you think about all the things that we do to manipulate other countries, I'm not shocked that someone would do that and manipulate us and that they would do it through education institutions. That's the way to do it. You get kids and then you train them as they leave and then they go into the workforce. They have these ideas like burned into their heads. Yeah. And that's probably what all this gender confusion shit is. This, this giant uptick of it. It's literally probably engineered and I think that's also what a lot of the climate stuff is. And a lot of the, a lot of the different things that people are fighting over. It's not just these big financial institutions that are, that are invested in climate change and green energy and all these different things, but it's also other countries just fucking with us.

3 (2h 44m 55s):
I think it's a lot of the trolling that you're seeing online is fueled by other countries. I think a lot of the, the narratives that get pushed or fueled by other countries and I think that's what we would do if we we're probably doing it too.

4 (2h 45m 8s):
I'm sure I mean, I'm sure we're I mean. It's it's a op, right?

3 (2h 45m 11s):
Yeah. I'm sure we're doing it too. Yeah. I'm sure. But I'm sure that's also one of the reasons why it would be nice to be able to lock down the internet. We have to be able to stop that. So we're gonna only have government approved internet like China has. That's how China keeps us from interfering with their lives. And the only way that we, we, we know that we're gonna do the right thing over here, but you know what? China's really playing. They're, they're doing something nasty. So we're not gonna let 'em in our, our internet anymore. We're gonna shut our internet down and only make it for people in North America. And everybody will be like, okay. Gotta keep China out. Yeah. Slowly but surely if we let them, they'll try to get more and more control. And that, that gets fucking super sketchy. Super sketchy.

4 (2h 45m 49s):
Yep.

3 (2h 45m 50s):
So what did you find this Green Beret

7 (2h 45m 53s):
I mean? No, not I, I went down a path and I don't think I'm gonna get there. 'cause what I, with the green Bre handbook that tells you how to overthrow a government be available on the internet.

4 (2h 46m 4s):
It better not be,

3 (2h 46m 6s):
If you hear, play a little of that. Yuri Besman off I know we played it many times, but you need to hear it. 'cause it's so wild to watch him say it. You watch him say it in 1984 and back then, well, you pull up the Paul Harvey thing from whenever that was about the devil. Maybe let's play that, pull that up because I, I haven't heard that and I've heard the besman off thing. We played like five times. At least it'll blow your mind when you hear this. It's, it's not good. but it also gives us a chance to right the ship. It hasn't fucking hit the rocks yet. Like we can still come out of this. We're the devil.

14 (2h 46m 36s):
Lemme find a

3 (2h 46m 37s):
Better version. Paul Harvey.

13 (2h 46m 40s):
If I, I were the devil. Is this the

3 (2h 46m 42s):
Thing? Yeah. Yeah. Okay.

13 (2h 46m 43s):
Okay. If I were the devil, If I were the prince of darkness, I'd want to engulf the whole world in darkness. And I'd have a third of its real estate and four-fifths of its population. But I wouldn't be happy until I had seized the ripest apple on the tree. The, so I'd set about however necessary to take over the United States. I'd subvert the churches first I'd begin with a campaign of whispers with the wisdom of a serpent. I would whisper to you as I whispered to eve, do as you please to the young, I would whisper that the Bible is a myth. I would convince them that man created God instead of the other way around. I would confide that what's bad is good and what's good is square.

13 (2h 47m 26s):
And the old, I would teach to pray after me, our father, which art in Washington. And then I'd get organized, I'd educate authors in how to make the lurid literature exciting so that anything else would appear dull and non-Interesting. I'd threaten TV with dirtier movies and vice versa, I'd pedal narcotics to whom I could, I'd sell alcohol to ladies and gentlemen of distinction, I'd tranquilize the rest with pills. Wow. If I were the devil, I'd soon have families at war with themselves. Churches at war with themselves and nations at war with themselves until each in its turn was consumed. And with promises of higher ratings, I'd have mesmerizing media fanning the flames.

13 (2h 48m 11s):
If I were the devil, I would encourage schools to refine young intellects, but neglect to discipline emotions. Just let those run wild. Wow. Until before you knew it, you'd have to have drug sniffing dogs and metal detectors at every schoolhouse door.

3 (2h 48m 24s):
Holy

13 (2h 48m 24s):
Shit. Within a decade, I'd have prisons overflowing. I'd have judges promoting pornography. Soon I could evict God from the courthouse, then from the schoolhouse and then from the houses of Congress. And in his own churches, I would substitute psychology for religion and deify science. I would lure priests and pastors into misusing boys and girls and church money. If I were the devil, I'd make the symbol of Easter and egg and the symbol of Christmas, a bottle. If I were the devil, I'd take from those who have and give to those who wanted until I had killed the incentive of the ambitious. And what'll, you bet. I couldn't get whole states to promote gambling as the way to get rich.

13 (2h 49m 11s):
I would caution against extremes in hard work, in patriotism, in moral conduct. I would convince the young that marriage is old fashioned, that swinging is more fun. That what you see on TV is the way to be. And thus, I could undress you in public and I could lure you into bed with diseases for which there is no cure. In other words, if I were the devil, I'd just keep right on doing what he's doing.

3 (2h 49m 47s):
What year was that? It was 65, but holy shit.

4 (2h 49m 53s):
1965.

3 (2h 49m 54s):
That's amazing. 65. Wow. April 3rd, 1965. Paul Harvey. Nailed it. Yeah. Wow.

4 (2h 50m 3s):
So you can, you can use devil as a euphemism for anything that you want. Yeah. But the but the result's the same. And we're seeing it. We're we're seeing that, you know, I think they said what somebody said that all these things are bad work ethic, all these things are racist or whatever. It's mostly

3 (2h 50m 22s):
Yeah. Toxic masculinity.

4 (2h 50m 24s):
Oh yeah. I've been, I've been accused of that.

3 (2h 50m 28s):
Congratulations. You're on the right side. That's a fascinating one. Yeah. Defund the police. Toxic masculinity.

4 (2h 50m 38s):
Yeah. That worked. That worked great.

3 (2h 50m 40s):
Yeah. They're all in the same sort of category of things like that. Seems silly. Seems silly to think that way. You need all of it. You need masculinity and femininity. It's okay. Be whatever you are, but you, you fucking need it. Yeah. And if you want to tell those dudes that are playing football, that they're, they're toxic masculine, who, what else are you gonna get? Who, who's gonna play football other than like super aggressive alpha males. Whatcha talking about? But why is that? It's not toxic. That's

4 (2h 51m 8s):
Not toxic.

3 (2h 51m 8s):
No. It's just natural masculine behavior. Yeah. It's not toxic. What about toxic? It's all, it's all stupid that term as applied. It's like,

4 (2h 51m 18s):
But these are all terms that have been created. There's, it's fascinating. The language is being reinvented before our eyes. Yeah. There's all these new words that are just meant to keep one person from disagreeing with another person's position. I love microaggressions.

3 (2h 51m 35s):
No, that's a great one. Just

4 (2h 51m 36s):
Like little bitty. Oh, you weren't, that was a microaggression.

3 (2h 51m 38s):
Yeah. And you can call people out on it. I called them out on this microaggression. Like, what?

4 (2h 51m 43s):
I I don, I don't think I've ever been guilty. don don't think anyone's ever been curious about my, you know, if I, if I, if I'm upset at you, you fucking know it. Yeah.

3 (2h 51m 52s):
That's how it should be. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's one of the things I really loved about that Ronald Reagan, Walter Mundell thing, like looking Walter Mundell laughing when Ronald Reagan got him with that funny line. Yeah. But they, they had,

4 (2h 52m 3s):
They had respect for each other. Yeah. They completely disagreed policy wise. Yeah. But, but

3 (2h 52m 9s):
What changed, what changed in us

4 (2h 52m 12s):
That, so there's a, there was a, and I'm, this guy's a wizard on the computer, so he'll find it for me. There's a, there's a guy that wrote a book. I have not read it. I just read this passage, I think the New York Times or Atlantic or somebody wrote about this. And he's either a, he's a political writer and I can't remember his name book was written in the nineties. And he talked about the fundamental difference between liberalism and conservatism and the reason that it's destined to, to continue moving out to these extremes. And, and that there can't ever be any compromise. And essentially it, it stated that the, the liberal point of view was that crime and all these social ills.

4 (2h 52m 54s):
It was a, so it's a social construct. And that if you could find a way to level the playing field for everybody, that crime would be eliminated. All these issues would go away. Poverty would go away. All the social ills that we have would disappear if everyone had the same opportunities. And the, and the same stuff. The flip side of that is the conservative view, which is there's evil in the world. There's good in the world. We're gonna try and manage the evil as best we can and create an opportunity for people to, for people to succeed or they can fuck up. And best of luck. One side seems naive, one side seems extremely harsh, but those are the beliefs.

4 (2h 53m 37s):
And that side can never compromise with this side and vice versa, because you're abandoning your own ideology.

3 (2h 53m 45s):
Yeah. That's essentially it. And you, you're also seeing, now, this is a weird one. I was watching this clip that I saw on YouTube of Tucker Carlson on Tim Pool's show talking about aliens. And he's talking about it from like a, like, almost like a religious perspective. He's like, I think what they're essentially saying is that there's, like, he was talking about good and evil, see if you could play find the clip. He's talking about good and evil and he is talking about it in relationship to UFOs and that they've always been here. So it's like, are you trying to say like, what does he know?

3 (2h 54m 26s):
And can you say what, you know, like why are you, why do you think this? And are you saying that like a lot of the talk of like angels and devils in the Bible and good and evil, that it actually manifests itself in physical form. And we don't know what it looks like because we haven't seen it, but when we do see it, we think it's a UFO. So we think it's from another planet, but it's really just evil or really just good. So it's angels and devils. Is that what you're saying? Because that's what you're saying. Boy, that's a, that's a fucking freaky argument because that's one of the weirdest arguments about the, the UFO thing is that we are essentially containers of souls.

3 (2h 55m 7s):
And that what this planet is for, for these beings is they mine souls here and that they develop souls here. And that all of our motivations for existing and all of our ego and all of our ambition is really just a way to carry that soul as a vessel. And that these,

4 (2h 55m 28s):
That they then harvest.

3 (2h 55m 30s):
Well, they, I don't know. I don't, I don't understand what the argument is, like what

4 (2h 55m 34s):
They getting out of it. That sounds like what would've been, what should have been the sequel to Matrix instead of what was right or that would've been a better version.

3 (2h 55m 41s):
That that's how artificial intelligence is created. That that's how life is created. Much how, like a bee creates a bee colony. They create a bee hive inside the hive. The queen lays the larva. Everyone knows how to do it, and they all do it that way. Maybe the soul being in this biological vehicle and given this intelligence and this desire to achieve and to pursue technological innovations and all these different things that human beings do, allows them to get to the point where we're at right now. Where they create artificial intelligence. And what these UAPs and UFOs that are appearing in greater numbers and being reported by all these fighter jet pilots and I say, maybe what they're doing is they're witnessing the farmers who are coming by to watch their creation, give birth to this thing, which is them.

3 (2h 56m 35s):
Which, which would,

4 (2h 56m 35s):
Would be ai.

3 (2h 56m 36s):
Which is the ai which is an, an art, not artificial, the artificial is the wrong word. A new form of life. A life that is not based in biology and breeding through sperm and cells and eggs, but instead completely technological and able to self reproduce and able to create its own version of itself that's far superior to the one that initially created it. And that it would constantly do that. And that's what the universe is filled with. That what we are, we're just this fucking caterpillar that's making a cocoon and we don't even know what we're doing. And we're gonna give birth to this butterfly. And that's what the whole human race is about. And that's the sinister aspect.

3 (2h 57m 17s):
That's what good and evil and all these different things playing off against each other is that we need this constant competition. We're always searching for utopia, searching for that meadow we can retire in. But it's like this strife and this struggle is what makes us continue to push society further and further until this thing is born. And listen to what Tucker says.

15 (2h 57m 37s):
It's my personal belief based on a fair amount of evidence that they're not aliens. They've always been here. and I and I do think it's spiritual. That's, that's my view. So, and I again, it's not provable, but based on, on, on the evidence I think I'm with. Absolutely. Well if the US government has in fact had contact direct contact with these beings, whatever they are, I've already told you what I think they are and has entered into some sort of agreement with them, which is, which is the claim of, of informed people. I would say. Whether they're right or wrong, I can't say conclusive, but, but, but wait, wait. But if that is true, I mean it's a very, very, very heavy thing. Yeah. Are you,

16 (2h 58m 14s):
A lot of people say on d dimensional beings. Right?

17 (2h 58m 16s):
I I want to ask, are are angels and demons or how would you describe these,

15 (2h 58m 19s):
These beings? You know, I, these are, again, I'm getting into the realm of conjecture, so I just wanna say that flat out entity. But one thing I know for a dead certain fact having seen it, is that there is good and evil that we are being acted upon at all times. and I think every person can feel that in himself. I mean there are moments when you are moved to do things that are much better than you actually are and that are also more evil and destructive than you actually are. You are subject to forces from outside yourself. That is absolutely true. Now we can argue about what they are, but every person in the room, if he's reflective, will tell you Yes, I know what you're talking about. And so there are forces that are not human that do exist in a spiritual realm of some kind that we cannot see.

15 (2h 59m 3s):
And that when you think about it, sort of make you think we live in an, an farm. Yeah. We being right. And that's just, that is real. Yeah. Okay. When I, and

3 (2h 59m 10s):
There's that might be what's going on

4 (2h 59m 15s):
Here? Well, those are some patient fricking alien angels because they waited around, you know, 10,000 years from discovering a wheel and, and domesticating the first plant to electricity. Well,

3 (2h 59m 32s):
If you have artificial intelligence and if you have a life form that's a million years more advanced than us, it's non-biological at that point. You have all the time in the world. And if you're gonna, and

4 (2h 59m 41s):
What is time at that when you start bending time? And,

3 (2h 59m 44s):
And one of the primary theories about how life got started on earth is panspermia, which is that amino acids and is various building blocks of life come in, in asteroids. They slam it to the earth. And that somehow or another, over the course of millions and millions of years of chemical interactions, billions of years, you have life, single cell, complex life. And then that life advances to the point where it creates a new version of life. And if that is just how it works everywhere we say, oh my God, that takes so much time. But does it because think about how much time it takes to make a fucking planet. Think about how much time it takes for all that matter to coalesce and to, to, to gel up into this fucking ball.

3 (3h 0m 24s):
And then for the temperature to stabilize. 'cause it has a Moon around it that's, you know, one quarter of the size of the planet itself. And everything is kind of stable. and it gets to the point where biological life can exist and then it starts fucking making shit and make better and better and better. and I start arguing with shit about climate change and gender pronouns and all this stupid shit while it's the real thing it's doing is forcing you to get that motherfucker online. Right. Get that new life form online. That's what you really do. Stupid.

4 (3h 0m 52s):
The, the thing that has always, and even Stephen Hawking talked about it. So you've got the Big Bang theory where you have essentially all this anti-matter compressed upon itself until it explodes and creates matter. Yeah. And the hole in that argument is anti-matter. Anti, there's no matter there's nothing. And there was so much nothing that it compressed until there was something. And so the first thing that we base everything on defies the laws of physics. Like how can nothing compress itself until it makes something I, you know, we could be off 0.0002% on our theories of life and how this universe was formed.

4 (3h 1m 39s):
And if that's wrong, we don't have any fucking idea where we are, what this is.

3 (3h 1m 43s):
No, we don't. And Terrence McKennan once said it best that science a asks of you one miracle. Yeah. That's the big bang. Yeah. It is one miracle. It's, it really is kind of like a miracle. Yeah. If in the beginning there was nothing and then God created the earth in the skies. Yeah. That's essentially what the Bible is trying to say. They're just doing it in a way.

4 (3h 2m 3s):
And the interesting, you know, the, the, the Bible got it right. Yeah. They got the order. Right. Right. You know, I

3 (3h 2m 9s):
Think it's based on an understanding that people had achieved. 'cause if you think about the Bible, right, and if, if all these people are correct about the original history of, of sophisticated civilization, if the Randall Carlsons and the Graham Hancocks and the Robert Shocks of the world and the John Anthony West, if they're correct, and the timeline of like, say the most sophisticated society that we are aware of, which is Africa. If those people that lived in Africa 30,000, 40,000 years ago in ge, in Egypt, if they created a, a, a society that was infinitely more sophisticated than anything that we had ever seen before. Like how did they do that?

3 (3h 2m 50s):
Who did that? And what, what was that like? Like what the fuck was that? Like what was that world like back then? I mean, have you ever really stopped and tried to think and imagine what was that world like back then? I mean.

4 (3h 3m 8s):
Well how about that? You have a similar world in Central and South America where they also had Yeah. Built things many thousands of years ago that still like, how the fuck did you do that?

3 (3h 3m 20s):
Yeah. How'd you do that

4 (3h 3m 22s):
Easter Island? What, what, how did, how did y'all make those things? Yeah. How in the world and then move them.

3 (3h 3m 29s):
Well, I think if those things go down and then people have to rebuild, I think it takes a long time before people figure out what happened. I think it takes a long time. and I think that's where a lot of the confusion that you see in the Bible comes from. Like the God made the earth and the sky and everything in like six days. Right. And on the sixth day he rested, okay, what are they actually saying though? This is, you're getting things that are translated from a written an oral history of a thousand years. And then they're writing it down on Aramaic. They're writing it down on ancient Hebrew. And you're getting it many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many years later.

3 (3h 4m 10s):
Long after

4 (3h 4m 11s):
Diluted and war.

3 (3h 4m 12s):
Yeah. All kinds of think about what people are willing to do today to the constitution today. With what, with all the information that we have about the dangers of this. Think about what they're trying to do today. Now imagine what you would do if you had the real knowledge of the birth, of the solar system, of the development of human beings and the God energy of the universe. And you tried to translate it over an oral history because there's chaos. 'cause there's no more cities anymore and everyone's dead. And you're just like hunting and gathering as cave people. And you're trying to relay this origin story of mankind. And then it gets written down in parables and it gets written down in Latin and it gets translated over the years.

3 (3h 4m 55s):
And, and then people try, okay. Then they sit down and they look at it many years later and they go, what the fuck were they trying to say? Like, what were they trying to say? Because so much of what they're trying to say, if you're really paying attention, like it seems like it's kind of laid out like the origins of the universe. If in the beginning there was nothing. Yeah. Like they talking about the Big Bang. If these scientists all agree, how did they know that back then that

4 (3h 5m 19s):
There was light? That'd be the big bang.

3 (3h 5m 20s):
Why wouldn't they assume back then that God was always around? Why would they assume that God had to make everything? Why would they assume that there was a beginning and an end? Just because they have a beginning and an end is that rational. Why? Why would they assume that? And why did everybody assume that? Maybe because they fucking knew. Maybe 'cause at one point in time, whether it's 10,000 years ago, 20,000 years ago, they had figured a lot of this shit out.

4 (3h 5m 43s):
Well, someone figured something out for every through the pyramids and the way that they were built Yeah. To be aligned so perfectly with a true north. And

3 (3h 5m 50s):
Just to be able to construct them. If those people were that smart, why wouldn't we imagine they had an understanding of the birth of the universe. Why wouldn't we imagine that they would have this Bazar understanding of the way morality and good and evil play out with human beings? Yeah. Maybe they were right. Maybe they were right. but it all just got fucked up over the thousands of years after asteroid impacts and thousands of years of the destruction of the advanced civilizations and the world going back into chaos and then slowly rebuilding. And you're rebuilding with these ancient texts that you find in clay pots and kuron and the, you ever seen when they, they translate like the Dead Sea Scrolls and they lay 'em out and they, they have to try to figure out which pieces go with which scroll.

3 (3h 6m 33s):
And they do it based on DNA this all this DNA is from this cow. So let's take this scroll from this cow skin and put it together and try to read what the fuck they said. It's incredible. but it makes sense. It makes sense if you buy into the idea that there's been a restart of civilization and then you go back and say, okay, what is the history of the Bible? Like how old is it? What's the oldest version? Like what's the, the oldest version of

4 (3h 6m 58s):
The story? What oldest rookie version? Like who, who knows the old

3 (3h 7m 0s):
Version? Who knows. Right. What was the original like you're playing a game of telegram. Right. Or telephone with over a thousand years. Yeah. With whom knows how many people. But if we've seen what the, the Egyptian people were able to build, who, what was that like? How sophisticated were they? And maybe what we're getting at in the Bible is just the longest game of telephone of a true story. It's just all kind of grumbled up in stories and God's testing you and all this thing about, you know, God telling this guy how to kill his kid. That was a, it's just a little screwed up. But it's showing you that there are evil forces at play and there are temptations and it

4 (3h 7m 44s):
Must resist digestable lessons. Yes. In a, in a story that you can understand. Seven. Exactly.

3 (3h 7m 48s):
That's the

4 (3h 7m 48s):
Heart of it. Some truth to it's 'cause. What is a day to Right

3 (3h 7m 54s):
God. Yeah. What does that mean? Is

4 (3h 7m 55s):
That a billion years? Yeah, A million years. A

3 (3h 7m 57s):
Hundred billion. Who knows? Who fucking knows?

4 (3h 7m 59s):
Yeah. Who knows. But it's, it's presented in a way that you can digest it.

3 (3h 8m 2s):
Yes. And then our version of is this simplified, uneducated, barbaric version that gets translated from people that are involved in sword fights. They're fucking, they're fighting each other with swords and hacking each other to death for thousands of years. Yeah. While they're telling this story, the crusades, the, you know, the the, all these different things that people did during that time. Horrific things. And during that time, they're doing it. Many of them in defense of their god, in defense of their religion. They're motivating people by these books. Yeah. It's fascinating stuff. It's fascinating. But when you hear a guy like Tucker Carlson saying that he like, what else do you know, bro?

3 (3h 8m 42s):
Tell say, say what? You know, like what, what makes you say that? 'cause if that really is what it is, that would make sense to me why the government would keep that information from people. 'cause if we found out that people were essentially just a vessel of souls and that we are essentially designed to give birth to artificial intelligence, and then that will be the end of us. So that's why they're not worried about nuclear war. That's why they're not worried about the environment. That's why they don't give a fuck about anything. This is all coming to an end.

4 (3h 9m 11s):
We're there. Yeah. Like we have it. Yeah. We have it to the degree that people are already relying on it heavily. Yeah. Advertising agencies are relying on it to tell them how to cut a commercial, how, how present the logo needs to be in the commercial. I guess this is happening right now. Oh yeah. This shit just appeared three years ago. Right. And now I, I think somewhere, maybe it's Brazil that, and I could be wrong, but somewhere AI just wrote its first law. They used AI to write a law. You can look up he looking that. Where is that?

3 (3h 9m 44s):
That's

4 (3h 9m 44s):
Scary. I don't know why. I think it's Brazil or El Salvador somewhere south or Central America. That's,

3 (3h 9m 49s):
That's how it begins. Yeah. I, for one, welcome president ai. I think they'll be wiser. They're gonna do a great job and they're definitely not going to be anti-human at all. They're gonna see our flaws as our strengths. Brazilian city passed a law without water meters chat. GPT wrote it. Wow. Wow. Only after it passed, they revealed that it was created by ai. But that seems like it was prompted. AI has to prompt it. The really scary thing is when AI doesn't prompt it and it just creates its own shit. Or when someone doesn't prompt the ai rather,

4 (3h 10m 27s):
You remember how wild you thought Terminator was the first time you saw it? Yeah.

3 (3h 10m 31s):
We're just,

4 (3h 10m 32s):
We're just skipping toward

3 (3h 10m 33s):
It. Have you ever seen those memes? It's Sarah Connor looking at you while you make friends with chat. GP t it.

4 (3h 10m 39s):
No, I've never seen any memes in my life. I don't, I'm not on such meme. Oh, that's right. Yeah.

3 (3h 10m 42s):
You are meme free. I'll have to start sending you something. 'cause I got some funny ones too. You'll

4 (3h 10m 46s):
Have to text them because I

3 (3h 10m 46s):
Can, I'll text him to you. Don't worry. I got some fucking bangers. I'm in some, I'm in some text chains with some comedians. I got the best memes on earth. They all come my way. It's awesome. There's so many funny people out there that are creating memes. It's a, a specific type of humor that is really accelerated because it's totally anonymous. Because sometimes people put watermarks on 'em, but oftentimes the people put in the watermarks on 'em, Aren, they not even the people that have created them I know that for a fact because people will put watermarks on my videos and it's not even me, not my watermarks. Somebody else puts a watermark on my video and puts it online. And so that's, there's a lot of 'em like that, like a shitload of them. They'll take Clips of this show and then they put their own watermark on it and put it up on YouTube or put it up wherever on TikTok and what have you.

3 (3h 11m 30s):
Really? Yeah. It happens all the time. So for sure they're doing that. But these, the, the memes are for the most part anonymous and you like, they're hilarious. Like some of them, the funniest shit that I see on any given day is a meme that a friend of mine sends me. So it's like just regular people that are figuring out this new comedy art form that's pure. Because you don't monetize it, it's pure, you just, it's just getting sent to people in text messages and you're like, and it's just, it's like the amount of people laughing at memes throughout any given day. You see, you don't even know this. All right, I'm gonna have to hit you with some of these. No, send me one because some of these are fucking great.

3 (3h 12m 10s):
There's some bangers out there, Sarah Connor watching you all become friends with Chad GBT. How funny is that? Right? That's great. Yeah. There's a shit load of those man. They're, they're constantly making them. And I send them back and forth to my comedian friends. All day long, here's one. Thank God California passed banned plastic straws. See? Funny. Right. That's great. Yeah. There's, that's what you get a lot of man, like All day long. I'm getting these fucking things. It's just a, here's a good one. How vegans be looking at you while you, while you're finally trying a bite of their fake macaroni and cheese. See? Hilarious.

4 (3h 12m 50s):
Did you see what's this guy's

3 (3h 12m 51s):
Name? You know that one, Jamie? That one's a, that one's a Bager P

4 (3h 12m 54s):
Pierce Pierce Morgan. Yes. When Pi Morgan had the ate the hamburger in front of the vegan. Did you see

3 (3h 13m 0s):
That? No, I didn't. Oh, did they? Freakout.

4 (3h 13m 3s):
Oh,

3 (3h 13m 4s):
While they're wearing leather shoes. Here's another good one. Feminist. When they hear that people are being drafted for World War three, they're so funny. There's so many good ones. Look, fuck. Climate change, I discovered cock. Come on man. All day long. I'm getting these. That's Genius. I'm laughing. All day. You know, I'm, I'm very appreciative. All the people out there, you meme warriors, keep it up. That's Genius. You're making my day more fun. and I have no idea who made any of those. I'd give 'em all credit, but they're hilarious. That's fucking hilarious. and I get 'em All day long, man. I'm just constantly getting them.

4 (3h 13m 37s):
That's great. Yeah, send

3 (3h 13m 38s):
Them, I'll send 'em all your way. That's great. Because I, I got a shitload

4 (3h 13m 41s):
Of 'em. Yeah, send them. and don

3 (3h 13m 43s):
Don't even know where they come from. Maybe AI's making them. Maybe Russia's making them.

4 (3h 13m 48s):
I don't think the Russians are that funny.

3 (3h 13m 49s):
They are that funny. That's part of the internet research agency was making really funny memes during the 2016 election. Really? It's one of some of the work. Yeah. There's a lot of dispute about this because some of the people that have created this research have also partly been responsible for similar disinformation, allegedly. But anyway, there's this one woman who came to my podcast to talk about it and she'd done a lot of research on it. And her name was Renee Dur. Resta. And she said there's hundreds of thousands of 'em that were created by these Russian troll farms. And some of 'em were really funny. There were really funny. And they created these specifically to mock like Hillary Clinton or to mock Donald Trump or to mock this or to mock Texas or to whatever, to mock the blue states or mock the red states.

3 (3h 14m 34s):
And they just would crank these out and throw 'em online and just keep everybody send it. People keep, make people like argue about shit.

4 (3h 14m 41s):
You ever think about, you're reading the comments on your deal, what Instagram or whatever the fuck it is. And the chances that that's some Chinese 23-year-old sitting in a fucking warehouse on his computer.

3 (3h 14m 54s):
Yeah. With a whole shitload of them. Yeah. Paid

4 (3h 14m 56s):
For Ministry of State or whatever they call it. And he's just sitting there firing off his troll shit. Highly

3 (3h 15m 0s):
Likely. Yeah. Highly likely that a percentage of them are that. There's certainly people that engage in that stupidity. All day long. But there's also, I'll go to like, I'll see someone that has a ridiculous take on something. I'll go, let me go check out that guy's page and I'll go to his page. I'll like, oh, you're a fake person. You're a fake person. This is like you got an American flag in your fucking Twitter bio. You're not a real person. You have two followers and you don't have any posts, but you're just like shitting on people and you're getting involved in these things. Like okay, I see you're, all you do is reply to things. And when I look at your reply, they're all very specific. The way you do it just attack. And a lot of times you can take certain things that people say and you can put 'em in a search engine and you'll find hundreds of Twitter accounts that have the exact same thing they're saying verbatim.

3 (3h 15m 42s):
Really? Yeah. And they're all fake accounts and there's a shit load of 'em. Like inflammatory things about whatever it is, whether it's abortion or the border or whatever it is. You'll see that there's a certain percentage of that argument that's being fueled by people that aren't even real people.

4 (3h 15m 58s):
So then it's China, Russia, some groups, some organization, yes.

3 (3h 16m 1s):
Yeah. They're trying to I mean it's part of the long, it's not the whole plan, but it's part of the plan.

4 (3h 16m 7s):
That's the long

3 (3h 16m 7s):
Game. Yeah. It's part of the whole long game to keep us outta each other's throats. Yeah. Yeah. They've made fake accounts. and I bet we do it too. I try to ask Mike Baker about that. Remember who he skirted? That one? Jamie? Yeah. I go, do we do that? He's like, no evidence. Why would we do

4 (3h 16m 23s):
And say what?

3 (3h 16m 24s):
I would hope we do that. That was my argument when people

4 (3h 16m 27s):
Said they do, it's us.

3 (3h 16m 28s):
When people were saying that the FBI was involved in the January 6th insurrection, that they were instigating people to break into the capitol. I'm like, possibly. But also if you got an extremist group, if you got a group that you think might break into the capitol and you're the FBI, you're supposed to get embedded in those people. Right. You gotta find out what the fuck they're doing. Ideally, if you find out they're just a bunch of knuckleheads, you're supposed to like leave 'em alone. You're not supposed to convince them to have to kidnap the governor of Minnesota or Michigan or wherever the fuck it was. Where was that lady?

4 (3h 17m 1s):
I think it was Michigan.

3 (3h 17m 2s):
Was it Michigan? Yeah. Yeah. What is that one? It's like 12 of those dudes were FBI informants. There's like two regular guys. They're

4 (3h 17m 9s):
Like, fuck. Well that's kind of the DeLorean deal, right? Like, you can't,

3 (3h 17m 12s):
What was the delo? Oh, that was like

4 (3h 17m 13s):
John DeLorean when they entrapped him and they're like, Hey, if you'll sell this.

3 (3h 17m 17s):
Oh, they like to do that too. That's a good one. That's a real good one. Yeah. That kind of entrapment thing. That's when it goes unchecked. But also, if you do have a legit terror cell, wouldn't it be nice if the FBI fucking embedded themselves in that and stopped that from happening? Yeah.

4 (3h 17m 32s):
It would've been great to have a couple of those in that fucking airplane school. Huh?

3 (3h 17m 36s):
It would've been great. It would've been nice. You know, they can't be everywhere, but, but you know, there's, there's so many stories of them actually doing that, like convincing people to do shit that they would never have done. And that's what they said about the Whitmer thing. That these, all these poor guys, they're just dummies, you know? Yeah. Like there's a certain percentage of the population of this country, I forget what the number is, but they're below 85 iq. There's a certain percentage of people that just have low watt brains. And if you get ahold of those dummies and all of a sudden you're their friend and you're convincing 'em, Hey man, we gotta stand up for something. You don't stand up for something you're not nothing like, yeah, we gotta fucking stand up for something. That fucking governor, man.

3 (3h 18m 16s):
That's the problem. You know, if we kidnapped her, we could fucking turn this whole thing around. We could take over this fucking country. We'd do it the right way. Yeah, probably. So listen, we're gonna meet at the docks at nine o'clock. We are brothers. We're brotherhood in this fight. Okay, nine o'clock. And then you go there like, I just wanted a friend, I just wanted a friend said, you're doing fucking 10 years in sing sing. Woo. That's not, that's not good. Hey guys, that's the wrong way to do it. But when you do it the right way and you infiltrate, infiltrate terror organizations, I know that's real too. Like you can't throw the baby out with the bath water, but gotta be some oversight on this. You can't just allow the same sort of unchecked shit that goes on with everything to go on with that.

4 (3h 18m 60s):
You gotta wonder how much, how many nine elevens we don't even know about that they, that they averted. That they averted. Maybe

3 (3h 19m 10s):
It's possible. I'm sure they've done a lot of good. I have no doubt.

4 (3h 19m 13s):
I mean the, the, that was 20 fuck was that 22 years ago now?

3 (3h 19m 18s):
Isn't that crazy?

4 (3h 19m 19s):
It is crazy. And there's no way that in the two decades since then, 'cause shit ain't got better. Right? Relations haven't got better. There's no way. Yeah. See that there haven't been any number of things that those guys have had to thwart that they just, they won't tell us about. Can't tell us because it'll give away the fact that they're inside

3 (3h 19m 36s):
It. That's the, that's the argument for things like the Patriot Act and for the NSA's, mass scale surveillance. Surveillance of the population. You want to be able to s like leave everybody alone, but you wanna be able to point out when some shit is about to go down. And this is really the only other way, if they're communicating through media, we gotta, we ought to be able to tap into this shit and we'll just use keywords and find people and, and get 'em.

4 (3h 19m 59s):
I'm sure that those guys have like, red flagged me 85 times.

3 (3h 20m 3s):
What have you been Googling?

4 (3h 20m 5s):
What, what I'm writing. Think about it. Read Bay or Kingstown. Right. You know, look at, look at Yellowstone, look at lioness. Look at Sicario. Like the shit I'm looking up drug trade right now they're terrorists this and they've gotta go, oh, oh we gotta hum dinger over here in fricking Texas. And then they pull up. They're like, no, it's,

3 (3h 20m 21s):
That's, that's a really good

4 (3h 20m 22s):
Point. That guy, it's that guy. This'll be an, this will be a plot in something here in two years. You just watch

3 (3h 20m 27s):
Sicario was fucking awesome. How much is involved in research with that? Like how do you do research for something like Sicario?

4 (3h 20m 35s):
I did a lot of research for Sicario.

3 (3h 20m 37s):
How did you

4 (3h 20m 38s):
I I was able to talk to some people on the inside of different things.

19 (3h 20m 41s):
Whoa. Yeah. Whoa.

3 (3h 20m 45s):
That must be heavy.

4 (3h 20m 47s):
Yeah. Yeah. And, and I and, and to be honest of a lot of the things that I uncovered, I didn't uncover 'em, but they were shown to me like there's a, there's a Sicario is the PG version of what it could have been.

3 (3h 21m 2s):
Holy shit.

4 (3h 21m 3s):
As, as barbaric as that is. And how we were shielded from the, you know, the, the drug war. And that was really, that was 20 10, 20 11. The drug war that it's based on. And more people died in the five years around that than died in Vietnam.

3 (3h 21m 18s):
Holy shit. Holy shit.

4 (3h 21m 26s):
Yeah.

3 (3h 21m 27s):
That's the wildest one. The, the, the wildest one that we're dealing with. Like, when you talk about major problems that this country has. Sure. We have immigration problems. Sure. We have, we got a lot of problems. One of the wildest ones is the amount of people that die from fentanyl overdoses every year.

4 (3h 21m 44s):
So doing research, I discovered, I was trying to figure out what are the, just to have a, a, a, a perspective on the scale of revenue generating industries. Like, and it started with oil. Like how much money do oil companies make? And if you look at the top 10 revenue generating industries, it's up there at like five or six or seven or eight, somewhere. It's not as high as you, I thought it would be. Pharmaceuticals sit there at like 3.2 trillion a year in revenue. Illegal drugs are estimated at 3.3 trillion.

3 (3h 22m 25s):
Whoa.

4 (3h 22m 26s):
And, and we talk about big pharma as this fucking monster. Think about the fact that illegal drug trade is bigger than big pharma. Holy

3 (3h 22m 34s):
Shit. Wow. I had no idea.

4 (3h 22m 40s):
I Yeah.

3 (3h 22m 41s):
Holy shit.

4 (3h 22m 43s):
Bigger. Yeah.

3 (3h 22m 45s):
And all funded because it's illegal. Yeah. But obviously there's a demand for it. And

4 (3h 22m 51s):
There's no way to know. There's no way. It's 'cause it's illegal. Right. Those are estimates. don don't know how they make the estimates, but I don are the estimates.

3 (3h 22m 57s):
And here's, here's a question. If you're the president of the world, and if you have this fucking magic wand, do you even want drugs to be legal? What do you wanna do? Do you want to go after the people that are making the drugs and just say, it's a war on America, on American youth. 'cause a hundred thousand people die every year and we need to in involve the military and go after the cartels. Or do you say, we need to wake up to the fact that people are gonna take these fucking things no matter what. So we need to regulate them, make them legal, and make 'em pure, and also give people some sort of an understanding of what the correct dose is. Tell 'em not to do it. Offer counseling, have rehab centers, have all that funded by the taxes that you're gonna make from selling these things legally, but allow people to sell legally.

3 (3h 23m 42s):
Well, my because you either, you're either boosting up the pharmaceutical drug companies, which are pretty gangster or you're boosting up the real gangsters. Like would I

4 (3h 23m 50s):
I would, I would argue And, and I don't have an answer. Look, I, I, I've written movies about this, don don't have the fucking answer. But if you look at, and we, he can pull it up right now. Overdose deaths from prescription medication, Oxycontin, all these various things. And that's a, that's exactly what you're saying. That is a regulated, having narcotic regulated, heavily regulated, you know, it's a class A or one, whatever they call it. Schedule one. You write that prescription as a doctor, somebody's gonna come knocking and go, eh, what was this for? Exactly. Like you write a ton of them. Some, you better be a fricking orthopedic surgeon.

4 (3h 24m 30s):
Especially

3 (3h 24m 30s):
Today. Yeah.

4 (3h 24m 32s):
And the, the number of deaths from, from prescription overdoses, it's pretty substantially high. I think it would be a failure. I think. I don't think it would work. I don't know what we do. I think, I think that, and I talked about it in Sicario where, where he says, look, un until we can figure out a way to convince 20% of the population not to smoke and snort this shit, the a measure of control is the best we can hope for. Right?

3 (3h 24m 59s):
Yeah. If you made it legal for sure, there would be people, this is the argument against it. If you made it legal for sure, there would be people that try it that wouldn't ordinarily try it, but they try it because it's legal. Yeah. Like when Elon was on my show and he smoked weed with me, one of the things he said, oh, it was legal though. Like, yeah, it's legal here, bro. We, we smoked weed together, but he said it's legal. And so he felt like he could do it. Yeah. Like, I'll try it. The how many kids would do heroin if it became legal? How many kids would do coke? Yeah. How many impressionable people that wouldn't do something illegal will now do something because it is legal. And how many generations does it take before we figure out how to stop that

4 (3h 25m 36s):
And I guess the question would be, could they make a heroin light?

3 (3h 25m 40s):
Could they make like a, like a

4 (3h 25m 41s):
Miller light? Like a cocaine light? Because if you ever watched one of those shows about how they make cocaine, you're never doing cocaine.

3 (3h 25m 48s):
Well, we, we had Mariana Van Zeller who has that show. What, what is that show called? Trafficked, excuse me. Trafficked. Trafficked. And she was embedded in this drug producing lab in, was it Costa Rica? Where was it? Columbia, I think it was Columbia, Peru or Columbia. All those. She was in there with these people while they're making cocaine and they let her document everything. Oh. And she even walked out with them when they were hiking it out as mules on their back. She took the trek with them. She retrace is one of the world's most, eh Yeah. Peruvian jungles to the Colombian coastline to the streets of Miami.

3 (3h 26m 30s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's a crazy episode, man. Because that lady has fucking,

4 (3h 26m 34s):
They're bleaching those leafs with like diesel and fricking cow piss and Oh, it's

3 (3h 26m 38s):
Horrible. Oh God. They, they have this vat and they're pouring these chemicals in there and they're taking all the fucking coke out of it. And then they're packing it up this pure cocaine, like, it's, it's so pure. It's really good for you. And they're taking that pure cocaine.

4 (3h 26m 49s):
But don't cocaine worry. You could trust that middleman. So not put a little fentanyl in there, just Of course to cut a little bit with some fucking Yeah.

3 (3h 26m 55s):
Flour. Now that's the argument for it being legal and hard to get that if it was legal and you really went after the people that are making it illegally and you test everything, you would stop all the fentanyl overdoses at least. But you're not gonna stop all the overdoses, you know? For sure. People just overdose on regular coke. They definitely die on regular heroin. They definitely have. It's just would they die as often? Would it be as bad? And would you have to deal with propping up this illegal drug regime? Which is the scary part. Yeah. Is that right? Next door? We could just walk over there. Do, do, do, do. You could literally walk over, they're walking over here. We could walk over there too. You could walk over to a place that's run by drug cartels.

4 (3h 27m 36s):
Yeah. I, you know, you have to look at the desire. What, what is the, and obviously a lot of it's gonna, you know, if you, if you've worked really hard and you built up this and you got a family and you know, you got a kid in college and someone goes, Hey, you wanna go over to this new bar? They got cocaine, you're probably gonna go, eh, you know what? I don't. Right. I, I've got a lot to lose.

3 (3h 27m 57s):
That sounds sketchy. Yeah. don don't think I

4 (3h 27m 59s):
Wanna do that. But if you've grown up in this fucking shitty family and you know, your father's abusive and mom's an alcoholic and she's a drug abuser, and you feel like you have no hope, then you're gonna turn to that. So it preys on the weakest, the most vulnerable of our society. Yeah. I, I, I wonder if, if there's not a way I would want to try, I would wanna try, like how do we and I don't wanna sound, how do we just lock this place down long enough that we fricking keep the drugs out? Like just

3 (3h 28m 28s):
Don don't think we can at this point.

4 (3h 28m 29s):
I, I don't think we can either. I think they're so sophisticated on the ways they get it in and there's enough people corrupt on the side that let it in. don don't think you could ever, you could ever do it. And it's a $3.3 trillion a year business. So they've got, they've figured out things, you know, there's probably some fucking highway under New Mexico that comes up in a warehouse and they're trucking this shit out and they've paid off everybody. And it's a $3.3 trillion business. The,

3 (3h 28m 51s):
The corruption is undeniable. There's always gonna be corruption. There's, there's no, one of the things that Mariana Van Zeller found out, one of the things she investigated is cops that are corrupt in Los Angeles taking confiscated weapons and then driving them into Mexico and selling 'em to the cartels

4 (3h 29m 10s):
Because

3 (3h 29m 10s):
You can just get in. Like they don't check you when you're coming in. They check you when you're leaving. So if you want to bring Coke, bring whatever you want. Yeah. But when you go on, go in, like come on in. Yeah. So they're going in with these confiscated weapons that they've gotten from, you know, gangs and, and what have you. And they, they got a trunk full of shit. They drive it into Mexico and sell it.

4 (3h 29m 29s):
I've always felt, if you think about it, probably the two public service jobs that are the most important teacher, police officer. Yep. How are those not $250,000 a year paying jobs? Right.

3 (3h 29m 45s):
How are they not? And there's difficult

4 (3h 29m 46s):
To get, by the way. There's, there's great police officers out there, there's great teachers out there, but there's a large portion that are not because, and you're gonna see it in LA now. You defund the police. We do this now You don't have enough cops. So now you've gotta do what you did with the rampart, lower your standards to get enough bodies in there. And then all of a sudden you're, well, what I was

3 (3h 30m 4s):
Telling you

4 (3h 30m 5s):
Earlier,

3 (3h 30m 5s):
Yeah. They're using illegal immigrants. Yeah. They're using non-citizens. Yeah. To be police officers in Los Angeles now. Like, Google that Jamie, I, it's without guns though. At least for now. They, they can't have guns. Yeah. Or they can't have guns at home. They're not allowed out. They can't have guns on them. Right. For now. But are they trying, are they trying to pass it so they can't have guns at point?

4 (3h 30m 26s):
Wouldn't you want, you know, look, if you're gonna be in the FBI and there's a lot of politic politicization of the FBI right now, but what they're not doing is getting in a shit ton of like shootings. And if, and if they are, they, you know, I'm, we're not hearing about 'em. Those guys and those men and women have college degrees, a lot of 'em have law degrees. They're gonna go through a year at the farm before they start out somewhere very small, have all these different training regimens before they, they're running around busting down doors.

3 (3h 30m 56s):
Okay. Here it is. LAPD moves to accommodate new DACA officers who can't personally own guns, can't personally own guns, but I don't know if that means that they can't carry guns on the job, possess their department issued firearms while off duty. So while on duty they're armed. So you could be an illegal alien who comes into this country and then no one wants to be a cop. So you could be a cop and they'll give you a gun. And so you could be a citizen of America getting arrested by someone who is not a citizen of America in America at gunpoint.

7 (3h 31m 37s):
I but the DCA recipients, is that weird? That's a interesting

3 (3h 31m 41s):
Well, that just means to people that they graduate the academy, that's what it means, right? Oh, no, no,

4 (3h 31m 45s):
No. Is that the dreamers? What is it? What

3 (3h 31m 46s):
Is it? Yeah,

4 (3h 31m 46s):
Yeah. So what that would mean is that's a, they they were brought in as a child. Is that what it means? Right. Yeah. Brought in as a child and, and, and I believe Obama gave him amnesty at one point. I don't know that it was ever rescinded. So

3 (3h 31m 57s):
It's at a certain age

7 (3h 31m 58s):
Deferred action of childhood arrivals. Yeah.

3 (3h 32m 0s):
Okay. So that's people that came here as a child, their parents illegally immigrated here, but they've been here their whole life. Why not just make 'em fucking citizens then? That was a big thing. You

4 (3h 32m 10s):
Know, the, there, there was a thing. Yeah. I thought they were

7 (3h 32m 12s):
Gonna get deported when Trump was president.

4 (3h 32m 13s):
George, George W. Bush actually initiated legislation for amnesty that involves back taxes and some things, but would give people like all the immigrants a green card. And there was a bunch of pushback saying, well, one second going now we want a path to citizenship. and I think there were the Democrats were like, whoa, you're not gonna take all our fucking Latin vote. Hell no, you can't do that. So it got squashed. But, but there was an attempt to legitimize all these people that had moved here illegally, but had created a, you know, a home and were working and contributing members of society and, and they killed it because it didn't go far enough for some, and politically it just got

3 (3h 32m 59s):
Squashed. That's unfortunate. 'cause if you can get to the point where you can tell those people, they can be police officers and they can carry guns on duty, which Colorado it said did their as well. So we said, make 'em citizens. It seems like they're good people. They're doing a good job. They're here, they're paying taxes. They're living, they're part of society. They wanna be police officers. W why would we assume they're bad? Let's, the, the problem is that they're not citizens. Well why is the, why is it such a difficult path to citizenship for someone who is born somewhere else but came over here as a child and doesn't, I'm, I'm assuming if you're a cop, you don't have a criminal record, I'm assuming. Right.

4 (3h 33m 32s):
California. I

3 (3h 33m 33s):
Don't know, man. Yeah. California might help you. Yeah.

4 (3h 33m 36s):
Don don't know.

3 (3h 33m 37s):
It's a, it's a wild world. It is

4 (3h 33m 42s):
Wild. Weirder.

3 (3h 33m 42s):
Weirder than any other time.

4 (3h 33m 44s):
I'm sure every generation thinks that, that they're at the precipice of disaster. But

3 (3h 33m 49s):
Yeah.

4 (3h 33m 49s):
You know, certainly World War II felt that way and I know it felt that way in the fifties with the Cold War. For sure.

3 (3h 33m 54s):
It felt that way in the eighties.

4 (3h 33m 56s):
It sure did.

3 (3h 33m 56s):
Yeah. Like when we were kids, it felt like at any moment we could have a nuclear war with Russia.

4 (3h 34m 1s):
I don't think you've seen the internal divide in this nation since Oh, late teens, early twenties.

3 (3h 34m 7s):
I agree. You

4 (3h 34m 8s):
Know? Yeah. When you had the big communist push then, and then the time before that we, we had a fucking Civil War.

3 (3h 34m 13s):
And I think a lot of that is accentuated by what we were talking about earlier with the social media use and the subversion of our educational institutions. It's, that's a big part of why we have this divide. and I think one thing that can combat that is a, a rational discourse that's appealing to people. And the people like you and other people that have these opinions, they say it out loud and people listen and they go, you know what, he's right. Like this is crazy. Like this divide is crazy. And what is accentuating this divide, engaging in these fucking stupid arguments online that might not even be with real people and might actually be with AI from China? Like, what, what are we doing?

4 (3h 34m 52s):
We just, we we just have to, someone's gotta step up and go look. The minutia of the argument Yeah. Is irrelevant. Like in, in the greater picture. Okay. Obviously it's very important to the people stuck in it and don don't give a fuck if it's like gender neutral bathrooms or climate change or whatever, whatever it is. Everyone has to first admit, we all have a right to think different.

3 (3h 35m 13s):
Yeah.

4 (3h 35m 14s):
And, and it's not violent when I disagree with you. No. It's not an, an irrational fear of you when I disagree or vice versa. But until we can respect respectfully disagree and go, Hey, you have your thoughts and I have my thoughts, how do we coexist? Right. But right now, coexisting iss off the table. Right. And that's the thing that has to get back on the table.

3 (3h 35m 34s):
Well, and people are very upset about, that's why songs like that Rich Man from Richmond. Yeah. That's why it hits like that. Yeah. Because people are like, yeah, what the fuck? Yeah. What the fuck is going on? Yeah. And they want it to be better I mean most people don't want to be involved in all this stupidity. They just wanna live a good life and have fun before the aliens turn us into fucking vegetables.

4 (3h 35m 57s):
I didn't know that was happening until now. That's

3 (3h 35m 59s):
What I think. That's what I think. Anyway. I think we just did like four hours. How long have been on three?

20 (3h 36m 5s):
A little,

3 (3h 36m 5s):
Three and a half. Three and a half hours. Dude. Fuck. Went like that. Yeah. But listen, it's been really fun. I really appreciate you love your workwise. You're a fucking awesome dude. Likewise, man. Everything you've done is like, it's just been some of my favorite shit ever on television for, so for sure. 1883 is one of the greatest shows I've ever seen in my life. It's fucking incredible. Yeah.

4 (3h 36m 23s):
Thank

3 (3h 36m 24s):
You brother. Appreciate you. Everybody go watch it. It's awesome. And whatever else you got going on, let me know.

4 (3h 36m 30s):
I'll do it.

3 (3h 36m 30s):
I'll, I'll blast it out there. Hell yeah.

4 (3h 36m 32s):
Thank you.

3 (3h 36m 33s):
Bye everybody.