0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast. by night, All day,

3 (12s):
Ron White has brought a wandering puppy into this studio and she's tangled in the wires now. Yeah,

4 (19s):
You know what? We can just put her out there. There's a, they got new puppies out there. Let's just put her outside. She doesn't need to be around these wires.

3 (26s):
Let's, let's have her do that and play with the puppy. Yeah,

4 (28s):
She'll do that.

3 (30s):
How old is she? Six months.

4 (31s):
Six months.

3 (32s):
She's adorable. What's her name again?

4 (34s):
Maddie. She is like a rug. That shits She's, that's what she is, man. She's

3 (40s):
A little adorable little.

4 (42s):
She's a

3 (43s):
Cutie

4 (43s):
Pie. A golden doodle Micro golden doodles. What they're calling 'em

3 (47s):
Micro golden doodle.

4 (48s):
Yeah. So that's about how big she's supposed to be.

3 (51s):
That's, it's as big as they get

4 (53s):
That one's supposed to. I hope so, because I isn't weird. I still got a cram in one planes and shit when I would travel.

3 (58s):
Did they, those things all came from wolves.

4 (1m 1s):
Did they really? Yeah. I don't know anything about where she came from. I, I got her from a breeder.

3 (1m 7s):
All dogs came from wolves.

4 (1m 9s):
They

3 (1m 9s):
Did. It is just incredible that they can get a dog down to that, that they can I mean. Even a German shepherd. Imagine turn a German shepherd into Chihuahua. How, how'd they do that?

4 (1m 19s):
I'm glad I'm not, not the one they're asking how to do it. Because I would've to say, I have no idea, dude. I

3 (1m 24s):
Don't even think they know how people did it. You get way because it happened

4 (1m 27s):
So long. Two chihuahuas and let 'em bang. That's the only, you get the

3 (1m 30s):
Boston Chihuahua. I wonder if you can go back up to a wolf when you can take chihuahuas and,

4 (1m 35s):
And get 10,000 years and get reverse DNA those things back into a creature.

3 (1m 39s):
Yeah. Make it harder for them to live.

4 (1m 42s):
Is it hot in here? No, it's not. No. Oh no. Oh

3 (1m 45s):
No.

4 (1m 46s):
Oh no. Then I miscalculated something. I got a miscalculation going on in my head.

3 (1m 51s):
No, we're good. It's like, what is in here? 70. It's cold as shit outside.

4 (1m 58s):
Yeah, it is. I'm, I'm up in the air on the 22nd floor. I'm still living in the condo. It is breezy up there. Yeah.

3 (2m 4s):
Boy, you open up that sliding glass door. You had a taste of reality. Oh,

4 (2m 10s):
When? A couple days ago we could barely shut it, you know, or, or open it. and it was just so much pressure against it. We were in Midland on Wednesday or Thursday night. Do a show thanks to you. If you'd have just let me retire. I wouldn't have been in Midland in a, but I'm sitting on my bus, my 60,000 pound tour bus and it is shaking in the wind. It is blowing so hard. And I've owned that bus 17 years. I've never felt anything like this. and it just shaken. And that the bus driver had to drive it from there to Houston for the next night show. And he got up at 10 hours later of just wrestling that steering wheel, trying to keep that thing on the road. Oh my God. His shoulders were killing him. His back was sore.

4 (2m 50s):
I mean it looked like he'd been in a fight all night long. 10 hours.

3 (2m 53s):
Yeah. I think what a, a bus is such a big target for wind too. There's so much surface area.

4 (2m 58s):
It's like a big old sail. Yeah. And, but luckily they weigh a lot so they're 60,000 pounds and, and you know, so it's pretty stable compared to a trailer, right. That, that somebody's pulling. Right. There's no weight in that. All that weight's right here. That stuff really blows around worse than we do. Yeah. I would imagine. We have got weight distribution,

3 (3m 20s):
Just the whole trailer thing being

4 (3m 21s):
Connected. I know all about this shit. If you wanna know any of 'em, just ask me questions.

3 (3m 24s):
Okay. Alright.

4 (3m 26s):
The hinge. Think of something

3 (3m 27s):
Between the two trailers. If something goes sideways, I would imagine that would be a lot harder to get back on track.

4 (3m 32s):
I don't know Jack shit about that. In fact,

3 (3m 34s):
I don't,

4 (3m 35s):
I don't, in fact, I've owned my bus for 17 years. I've never driven it one foot. And if you held a gun to my head and said, I'm gonna kill you if you don't move this bus, I'd say, you're gonna have to kill me, dude. 'cause I don't even know how to start it. I've never been curious. I'm not that kind of person. I know. I own a jet for years. I never went in the cockpit. I couldn't tell you what goes on up there. I didn't. I'm sure there people up there knew how to flew a plane, fly a plane. But I've never started it. I've never moved it. I've had cops bang on You gotta move it. You're blocking an alley. I'm sorry dude. You got the wrong guy. And the guy that says the driver's asleep right now. 'cause you gotta drive tomorrow night. So it's kind of sitting where it's sitting unless you guys wanna tow it or

3 (4m 15s):
You've had that happen. Yeah. Oh

4 (4m 17s):
Yeah. I had. Yeah.

3 (4m 19s):
'cause drivers can only drive so long.

4 (4m 21s):
Yeah, they, well, you drive five, 500 miles and then you're, then they go on overdrive. So they make the same for the next couple hours that they made for the whole day. So they like that. But you, but there are laws against how much that they can run without, without needing some rest. And we run that bus at night, so, you know, they gotta sleep during the day.

3 (4m 40s):
You're banking on people being able to stay awake. People fall asleep at the wheel sometimes.

4 (4m 44s):
Yeah. You gotta go, you gotta go with super pros and pay 'em. Well, you know, because those guys understand the, the how important it is, you know, that you got everything on this thing. Yeah. You know, my life, my friend lives, you know. Yeah. And my family, you know, that's who I've spent the most time with in the last whatever, 30 years. And you know, they, so you get a pro that knows how to sleep, knows how to do it, knows how to work it, knows how to work those hours. And, you know, I got a great guy now that I just picked up named Steve, who used to work for Privos fixing them. And Fred Pat's who used to, who built the bus. So I got the bus covered. Man,

3 (5m 23s):
That's nice because you got like a little traveling apartment.

4 (5m 27s):
Yeah. It's your spot. It's the greatest. You ought get one. I, in fact, I was looking at 'em the other day for you. Duh.

3 (5m 33s):
I'm not getting one of those.

4 (5m 35s):
You're not to. No. You got a place to store it. No. Park it in one of your gyms.

3 (5m 40s):
No, just the thought of traveling around on highways while you're just kind of No. You are hoping all these other people around you can keep their shit together. Right. You have regular people, not pilots, regular people. Right. Driving multi-thousand pound machines on rubber tires, weaving in and outta lanes.

4 (6m 6s):
Yeah. You, you can't ever come on my bus with thoughts like that. Spewing 'em out there. I'll never sleep again. Some guys, you're

3 (6m 12s):
Root

4 (6m 12s):
For everybody.

3 (6m 13s):
Guy in front of me the other day didn't see me on the highway, don don't think, I think he just cut right in front of me. And I was like, wow.

4 (6m 20s):
Never saw you. We

3 (6m 21s):
Were on, I don't think he saw me. I think he just turned in my lane. I think, you know, it was a left lane thing. He was going into the left lane. I just don't think he saw me.

4 (6m 27s):
I, you know, the, the problem with that, with that bus is that you get so used to it and you so used to living on it when it's moving and you kind of forget that you're standing there, but you're really going 70 miles an hour. So if something happens, and this happened one time, we were in Orlando and it was actually a cop that did it cut in front of the bus. I'm standing there washing dishes or whatever I was doing. And then Pat gotta hit the brakes and turn to the left from going, for now I'm going 70 miles an hour. I'm still going 70 miles an hour, but he's going 52 and going that way. And I'm going 70 miles an hour this way. And I landed on this chair, which looks padded, but it doesn't feel padded when you hit it.

4 (7m 8s):
And I thought I would never walk again or breathe again. When after I just walked away from it, I wouldn't even hurt. But you gotta sit down and remember, hey, this thing's moving, right? Yeah. So if something happens, you gotta be ready for it to happen.

3 (7m 21s):
Yeah.

4 (7m 21s):
And I sleep like a baby on it, so.

3 (7m 23s):
Ooh, that's crazy.

4 (7m 25s):
In fact, I, I spend too much time on it. I gotta hire somebody to shake my bed when I'm at home just a little bit. So I feel like I'm moving down the road.

3 (7m 32s):
If we wanted to look at the bright side of human beings, highways are a pretty good indicator that people for the most part keep it together for the most part.

4 (7m 44s):
I think that's really how you can really tell when you're back in America and how good we are at, at putting a country together, you know, is how good our roads are compared to, you know, you, it's really funny, if you cross a bridge from Renos of Mexico to Macau in Texas, which I used to do all the time, it was a joint project. So the US built half the bridge, Mexico built half the bridge. And I'm not being a racist and I love Mexican people. I just got back from Mexico City. But our side of the bridge is smooth as silk. And as soon as you hit that river, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. But that just goes to what you just said. It's a, it's a mark of what you've achieved as a, as a, as a civilization, the kind of road work that you've got.

4 (8m 24s):
And you get back to Texas where we got those u-turn lanes on the freeway. Yeah. We got it figured out here in Texas. Man, we got the best roads ever. Best roads ever.

3 (8m 37s):
It's just, just counting on all those people to keep their shit together all the time while you're driving on the highway. And most people do it. Most people, the vast majority of us keep our shit together.

4 (8m 48s):
That's why I think bus drivers should make more than pilots because there's way more shit to run into. Oh

3 (8m 54s):
Yeah. Way more. And

4 (8m 55s):
There is

3 (8m 56s):
Up there, there more things that can make mistakes that are all around you.

4 (8m 58s):
Right. You're right. The things that are completely outta your control. Yeah. That ain't going on up in the sky there.

3 (9m 2s):
There's also, people play stupid road games. I'm sure you've seen those people get aggressive with each other on the road when, when you're in a car, and this was explained to me, I forget who told us, who told us this with, with the, the reason why road rage really exists at such a hyper level is because you're really tuned in because you're driving the car. It's an extraordinary thing. You're, you're really, you know, you know things are happening fast, your mind's tuned in. So any little thing like, what the fuck?

4 (9m 31s):
Yeah. Right.

3 (9m 31s):
You're already at like seven. Right. And so when you are already at seven and something happens, it just, it freaks you out.

4 (9m 38s):
It's ama you know, it's amazing how, how even headed I think I am, but what really little it takes to set me off, you know, I like to think I'm a step above all that stuff. But I wasn in Mexico City the other day and this guy, I needed to find something, a, a pharmacy and, and then, so this guy was a bus. It's in the nicest Beverly Hills part of Mexico City. And this guy's walking, he's got a business suit on and I, literally, I don't look that great. My hair is all over the place. And, and I said, can you tell me where a pharmacy? And the guy didn't even look at me. He just kept on, I said, please, could you just tell me where a pharmacy is? And the guy didn't even look at me. The fuck, you know, I went off on the fucking guy. You know, he was just trying to get where he was going and didn't want to be stopped by some big hairy drug addicted looking thing, you know, that was coming at him for some

3 (10m 24s):
Questions. You do look a little sketchy. Like if you're asking for where the pharmacy is and Don don't know who you are.

4 (10m 29s):
Right. and it, and I can see some and I and I'm basically wearing, wearing pajamas and you know, the wind's blowing and, but, but that's how far I am away from really snapping. I I'm not, I'm not way, I'm not hovering above every anything. don don't think there

3 (10m 44s):
Was always the joke that you'd go to pharmacies in Mexico and just buy anything. Is that true? 'cause people would always say that. They would call 'em like Mexican. I was always calling 'em Mexican supplements. Yeah. Like steroids and things that people could buy

4 (10m 57s):
Over. I think they, you know, there, there are some things that you can get like Valium and stuff like that, but you can't go down there and get like opioids or Oh no. You know, I don't think so. You know, don don't know

3 (11m 7s):
Don don't know. I'm just

5 (11m 9s):
I mean according to a few TikTok videos I've seen, you can walk in and get lots of like steroid type stuff. For sure. I'm looking on like for some

4 (11m 15s):
Google. Yeah. You can get HGH and stuff like that. But that's not what you're talking about.

3 (11m 20s):
I'm talking about everything. Like what can you

4 (11m 22s):
Yeah, yeah. No don don't think think it's really that open a book. I know you can get cheap dental care down

3 (11m 27s):
There, but I think they decriminalized a lot of things in Mexico fairly recently.

5 (11m 31s):
This isn't anything that crazy. You can get that stuff here

3 (11m 33s):
Lexapro. So you can just go in with no prescription and buy Viagra. But, but the weird ones like Lexapro isnt that, that's like an antidepressant, right?

4 (11m 42s):
I have no idea what that is.

3 (11m 43s):
You can just go buy an penicillin. Yeah.

4 (11m 46s):
And why not I mean, why should you have to go through it if, you know, if you need penicillin, you're dicks dripping, you know, get some, get something for it, you know, go down there and patch it up. You don't wanna, you don't wanna admit it to anybody.

5 (11m 57s):
The thing is a Viagra, it's a blue pill itself.

3 (11m 59s):
Ah, that's

4 (11m 59s):
Hilarious. Look at the dick

3 (12m 0s):
On that. What does it say? Macho?

4 (12m 3s):
Very hot. That's what that means. Very hot.

3 (12m 6s):
It's a pharmacy. Well, the dude with a boner, he's got,

4 (12m 9s):
He he's got abs too. He, he's got a little gut, but he is got, it's like a mix between me and Rogan. He's got a big old fucking upper body and a gut hanging down there.

3 (12m 18s):
It's a human Viagra pill with a boner at a pharmacy

4 (12m 22s):
And a soro That's

3 (12m 24s):
And

4 (12m 24s):
A sore. Yeah. I don't, it's too bad you can't see this. Oh, I guess some people watch this on television, right? What's

3 (12m 30s):
Some of them too? Yeah.

5 (12m 31s):
Isn't that that thing from like the ancient

3 (12m 33s):
Times? Yes, it is, but it's also, I think it's a sleeping pill. Okay. Right.

4 (12m 36s):
But it iss right next to a bottle of shampoo. Right. Or that's this lotion, body lotion.

3 (12m 41s):
Right. Is it kind of ironic that, so is Soma, is it sleeping medication fun of what it is? Because the, the original Soma was like muscle relaxer. Muscle relaxer. So the original Soma, they don't even know what it was. They're just, there's all sorts of questions as to what it was. They think it had something to do with mushrooms perhaps. but it might've been a bunch of other psychedelics too. They don't know what it was.

4 (13m 6s):
I still don't know what it is.

3 (13m 7s):
Have you heard the term? No. You never heard the term Soma Uhuh. It's like an ancient term for like some sort of a magical elixir. Am I saying that right?

5 (13m 16s):
Yeah. I mean this, when I Google it, it says it itself is also a God. So I don't even,

3 (13m 21s):
Some drink is most

4 (13m 22s):
Famous. I want some,

3 (13m 23s):
Yeah. Ancient Indian drug, Soma.

4 (13m 25s):
Oh, this is right down my alley.

3 (13m 27s):
Made from a plant called Soma is a God and a drink that was used as an offering to the gods in some Vedic rituals. Soma was celebrated at an early period as shown in the hymns of the Rigveda. Wow.

4 (13m 44s):
From when they

3 (13m 45s):
Don't really Oh, fucking thousands years ago. When was that?

4 (13m 48s):
And they still use this today?

3 (13m 50s):
No, it's just, it, you know, it's, it's

4 (13m 52s):
Now it's more of a

3 (13m 53s):
Term. It's used as like a term as like a soma as like a thing that cures all a soma is a thing that clears minds.

5 (14m 0s):
This doesn't say it's just a,

3 (14m 3s):
Some, you know, there's various interpretations of what it does, but it's kind of crazy that they, they named a muscle relaxant that like how brazen how brazen.

4 (14m 14s):
I bet you do feel better though overall. I bet you feel great. Yeah. My muscles are pretty relaxed all the time. Yours aren't you? You need to muscle relaxer.

3 (14m 21s):
What do those do to you? They just con you out?

4 (14m 24s):
They make me play better golf. 'cause it takes the attention outta my shoulders and my swing. Really? Yeah. A lot of, a lot of golfers use all kinds of meds to get loose or, or they actually go down to stretch lab and, and get those muscles all stretched out. So you can play. I've,

3 (14m 39s):
I've heard with pool players, Percocets is a big one.

4 (14m 43s):
Well, that's all nerves, right? I mean if you can't

3 (14m 46s):
Is that what Percocet's doing?

4 (14m 48s):
I, well, yeah, I think so. You know, calm 'em your nerves or deaden them or whatever, you know,

3 (14m 54s):
I've never, I've never taken it.

4 (14m 56s):
I've been watching this, this, there's a pool player that comes up on my feed now and he's like an old kind of chubby, fat Mexican looking guy, and he's like the greatest pool player that ever lived. You know,

3 (15m 5s):
Efron Reyes?

4 (15m 6s):
Is that who it is?

3 (15m 6s):
From the Philippines? Fuck

4 (15m 8s):
Man. Yeah. I've been watching that guy play a little bit. Once I, once it gets on my TikTok it starts feeding to me. If I know I eat it, you know, they'll, oh, here have another one. Have another one. But I like watching this guy play fucking pool. Yeah. I'm just like, God, he's the guy, he's fearless. He's got ice water just pumping through his veins, you know,

3 (15m 25s):
He's a wizard man. Like a real wizard. He does things on a pool table. There he is.

4 (15m 30s):
Yeah, that guy right there. That, that guy's all over my TikTok feed now. I can't get him off.

3 (15m 35s):
He does things on a pool table that are like magical.

4 (15m 38s):
How old is

3 (15m 39s):
He? Well, he's older now. You know, he's probably in his late. Yeah. Like 69 says.

4 (15m 45s):
And he still, that's old for pool. He still play,

3 (15m 48s):
He still plays all the time. There's they live stream videos of him playing people down the Philippines.

4 (15m 52s):
Yeah, that's what I'm, that's what I'm getting, I think.

3 (15m 54s):
Yeah. So they have these setups, like Effin Reyes is, you know, really arguably the greatest pool player in the history of pool players. And he's now still playing all the time online and he plays online and he's not as good as he was when he was in his prime because he is, you know, he's 69 years old. He's a young man's game. Look

4 (16m 14s):
At that, that I know. I played pool my whole life. We had a pool table at my house when I was a kid. And so, so I, I always liked watching, you know, trick players and people that could, you know, run, run the table and do weird shots and stuff like that.

3 (16m 29s):
This guy changed the way people stroke the ball. He came along and he had this very loose and relaxed hand grip on the queue. Right. Whereas some of the American players, they were a little too tight with their, their hand on the cue and effort came along and it was like this flowing sort of like, almost like he was playing a musical instrument. Right. and it, the way he did it is so relaxed that his stroke, like the way the cue ball would dance around the table was wild to watch, man. Right.

4 (17m 0s):
Well that maybe that's what I'm so intrigued about because I, I don't know exactly what I'm seeing, but it, but I was watching it on that and you can see he does have a, a, a different motion into the ball. It even looks like, you know, with that,

3 (17m 12s):
Well you've played pool before. Yeah. Right. So if you played pool before, you know, like when someone looks like they're good. Yeah. Like, oh, that guy looks like he could play pool. You watch that guy and you're like, oh, this is like a completely different kind of thing.

4 (17m 24s):
And then you would guess that, that I, I would guess if I saw him on the street that I could beat him at pool and, and then he would have all my money and I would go, what the fuck happened to me just now. They

3 (17m 33s):
Brought him over to America under a fake name to hustle with him. They brought him over as Caesar Morales. So these backers, they came from the Philippines and these dudes of big money and they came to America and they brought that dude

4 (17m 48s):
No shit.

3 (17m 48s):
Yeah. That's their killer. And they brought him the, the, the, the pool world is so sneaky that they brought him in under a fake name because they didn't want people to ask around back to the Philippines. Like, people to make calls to the Philippines, Hey, who's this Reyes guy? And then everybody would just say, oh, he's the best. He's the best. So instead they just came up with a name. He a morales and he won this giant tournament as Caesar Morales. It's like a famous no shit. Yeah. I have a, I have it on a T-shirt that morales stuns field at reds. So they just bring him in God to like the biggest pool tournament in the country. And this guy's just robbing everybody, just robbing everybody. Just, just getting out in ways that people are like, oh my God.

3 (18m 30s):
Like his stroke, his knowledge of where the ball's going, the creativity.

4 (18m 35s):
Just a Genius

3 (18m 36s):
Genius. Genius a virtuoso. Yeah. When

4 (18m 40s):
You watching? Well, I actually knew nothing about him because I, but you could still tell my phone figured out that I liked watching him. Right.

3 (18m 46s):
But you could still tell. Yeah, you could still, even though you don't play a lot of pool, you look at that, you could tell you're like, wow. That's wild.

4 (18m 54s):
Yeah. I never played a lot of pool. I was never good. I never had a good eye for the, for the game. I played a lot so I could play, you know, I could beat my friends. Yeah. But if somebody came in, it was like ping pong. I could beat, I beat the guys on my block pretty bad. But if somebody came in that was a player, they could just push me around and shove me out of the door. I've

3 (19m 10s):
Had a couple fun opportunities to play, like real pros here. Like this guy Federer Gost, he's the probably number two or number three in the world. Incredible player. And me and him played for hours here and we're playing. It's just, it's wild just to watch him in up close do things. You go, what the fuck? Like, how are you doing that so effortlessly?

4 (19m 33s):
Yeah. Just like watching a professional golfer when you play golf, you know, just

3 (19m 37s):
Smoothness and the precision. It's just like, fuck

4 (19m 41s):
Man. Yeah. That's, that's why I watch the pro golfers and I get to play with 'em every once in a while and it, and it's actually kinda like that guy's loose thing, you know? That's how that golf swing is. It's really loose and it's, and it's, and nothing's really connected hard to anything. and it just, the way it comes through the ball, it just, something magic happens.

3 (19m 59s):
Yeah. It's a, when

4 (19m 60s):
I'm trying to strangle the club and beat it to death and it doesn't work at all. and I have a good try write a book right now, 50 years of bad golf, how I did it and like, I had a plan to do it this bad for so long.

3 (20m 15s):
Tony says, you play good. No,

4 (20m 16s):
I I, you know what? That I'm back like, I, I'm, I'm like, I was at anything I can, I can beat guys my age. If you don't know me and we're playing golf together, I'll kick your ass. But, but am I a player? No. There are guys 10 years older than me that can beat me to death on a golf course. You know, any of those old pro guys that I've hook up with every once in a while, daily can still beat me like a drum. But

3 (20m 39s):
Isn't it interesting, it's like there's a control of a game like that. What an extraordinary talent because it's all, it's so variable. There's so many things going on. You, you,

4 (20m 51s):
You, you literally do never do the same thing twice the whole time you play golf your whole life. Because something's gonna be different about the wind and the way and the where you went, the kinda lie you got on the ground, what club you need to get to that. and it, it's all a game of questions and you, and you rarely have the answer. Even Ben Hogan, who was arguably the best ball striker ever said that in an average day of golf, he hits two shots the way he wanted to. Exactly. Wow. And the rest of 'em are close to that, you know, so his Mrs. Are really good. So if I hit one shot a month that I about that, I'll go, that was perfect. And, and that's, that's about how often I can do it.

4 (21m 32s):
Everything else is pretty good.

3 (21m 33s):
It's such a fascinating game.

4 (21m 37s):
Yeah. You don't have the time. Nope. You don't have the time.

3 (21m 42s):
Nope. Nope. I don't.

4 (21m 43s):
No.

3 (21m 44s):
I'm scared of it. I'm scared. I love it.

4 (21m 47s):
You would and but you've always had that position, right? You've always kinda looked at golf. That's a, because that's what people I that want to get into golf, they think about starting that it is a waste of time and money. You need to understand that going into it more time than you can ever imagine. And you have to settle with how good you want to be because to be better than that, you gotta spend hours and hours. But you can just, if you can wanna just rake it around and gamble with your friends, you know, you don't have to practice all that much.

3 (22m 14s):
I can do quite a few comic buddies that I think lost a little inspiration in their career because they were spending so much time playing golf. Yeah.

4 (22m 23s):
Well, that's how I killed my days. and I, I still do to this day. You know, when, when I was on the road, like you were, I don't know what you were doing during the day, but I was, I was trading tickets for, for free golf, schmo it wherever I could. And so you

3 (22m 37s):
Just played everywhere you go.

4 (22m 38s):
Yeah, we still do. You know, that's, that's nice. We travel at night, wake up at a golf course, crawl out. You're in the parking lot, you know, it's like you were FedExed over there. That's great. Crawl out of the box and play some golf, you know, kill another day. I'm killing another day. You're over here building an empire and I'm killing another day.

3 (22m 58s):
Yeah. But killing another day is sweet. Yeah. To be able to do it that way. I mean what is life? What is life if not enjoyment?

4 (23m 6s):
It's all about love. Yeah. It's all about love. How much do you love how much care you loved, you know, outside of that, nothing really means much, but Yeah. But that's, you know, I, it's a waste of time or whatever. I could do charity events with golf. People like to see me, you know, shake hands and I like doing that kind of stuff. So, you know.

3 (23m 26s):
Well, you just love the game.

4 (23m 28s):
I do love the game. You love

3 (23m 29s):
Talking about the game

4 (23m 29s):
Game. I watch it. I, you know, it's because I play it, you know, it's like, like you in fighting, you know? Exactly. Because you know exactly what that is that they're doing. You can't even hardly explain it to me. Even when you're trying to, to make me really understand what's going on. Exactly. When two guys are on the ground and it looks like nothing's happening and then you're losing your mind because there's so many things happening.

3 (23m 51s):
That's a hard one to explain too, because I'm trying to explain it while it's actually happening. So I have to have the path carved out in my head. Like, especially on like, some transitions that guys do when they're going mount to rear naked choke. And I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm trying to like, set up what he's gonna do while not stepping on what they're doing. You know? And then it's like this weird dance with the description of what's happening in real time. Right.

4 (24m 15s):
That's why nobody can ever take your job. God,

3 (24m 17s):
A lot of guys could do that. No, that's

4 (24m 19s):
Not

3 (24m 19s):
True.

4 (24m 20s):
A lot of guys could do that. Not, that's not true. No. Those guys

3 (24m 22s):
Are awesome at

4 (24m 23s):
It. If Rogan doesn't say it, it doesn't get said Nah. And that's true. No, that's how people feel. You know, they sit around waiting for you to tell 'em what to think and do. And that's as far as bidet goes,

3 (24m 33s):
That's ridiculous. No. There's there's guys that are better at it than me. Unlike, Dominic Cruz is better at it from a technical standpoint than me. You know, he's, he's had, he was a UFC champion, he's had a shit ton of fights. He knows a lot about the technical details.

4 (24m 47s):
Yeah. But he, but he's not, but he's not Joe Rogan. So it I mean it's not as fun to hear.

3 (24m 53s):
Yeah. For me, the fun. I get it. But for me, the fun is the fight. The fun is the, you know, the who the fuck knows what's gonna happen. You

4 (25m 1s):
Can, you can tell that you can see the joy in your face that it brings you with the, you know, with all these, these fucking events.

3 (25m 7s):
Well, you're getting to see the literally the greatest fist fighters of all time. The greatest standup ground fighting MMA fighting warriors of all time. They exist right now. Now I, it's

4 (25m 21s):
Pretty

3 (25m 22s):
Exciting.

4 (25m 22s):
And I get that and I get that. It's the ultimate sport. Okay. I'll fight you. You know, that's how war should be decided. One guy and one guy, instead of we're gonna take our lower middle class, put 'em in a field with your lower middle class, they're gonna kill each other. Yeah. You ought to just fight me in the fucking alley.

3 (25m 41s):
That's too difficult. Ron wife. So they'd rather just fight you with narratives.

4 (25m 45s):
Right.

3 (25m 46s):
Fight you with mandates.

4 (25m 47s):
Fight with laws. But you know, me, I I won't listen to their narratives. Yeah. That's how I defend myself, don. Don't I I'm really careful about what information I let in my head because don don't know what's gonna stew around in there.

3 (25m 58s):
I hear you man. I hear you. Especially in this day and age. And also there's like, there's so much to worry about every fucking time I get on the news and I start reading what's happening in the world every day. It's something new that's insane. That you have to worry about

4 (26m 12s):
I know. And that's why I'm just real careful about what news I let in my head, you know? and I, I don't let it in. And I've got, you know, I've got news feeds on my phone that are, these are, these are news organizations that I trust that if something wacko in the world's gonna happen. It's news and they're gonna pick it up and, but if it's something completely unverifiable that I don't even need to fucking know, they're not gonna pick it up. And so, but if I know when people go down that fucking dark road in the web, they come out on the other side and sometimes they're, you can't get 'em back. You know, they're full blown. I got friends that went out, came back full blown Q anon. They believed it.

4 (26m 53s):
Satan, there's Satan worshiping cabal of Democrats that eat babies. I'm like, where are all the missing babies? You know, you, how many babies does it take to feed all the Democrats? If they're all drinking the blood of the babies, there's gonna be some missing babies, right. Somewhere. No, no. Yeah, they're, they're from overseas. I don't, they they'll they got some answer to anything you throw at 'em. Tom Hanks like, that's not true. Tom Hanks still making movies. Tom Hanks didn't eat a baby. Yeah, he did. And they believe it.

3 (27m 22s):
Where'd the Tom one

4 (27m 24s):
Come from? Believe it,

3 (27m 24s):
Don Don't know. Where did that one come from?

4 (27m 25s):
It just straight outta Q anon. It was, it was their basic doctrine in the beginning was all this Bazar claims and I. I, I got a friend that that's, well, you met her. I, and I'm not gonna say her name, but it's I mean she believes this with all of her heart. Right. All of her heart. Yeah. And there's nothing I can do to, to, to say, you know, I, nothing I can do, nothing I can do to change her mind. Ron,

3 (27m 51s):
I think at least a certain portion of that is other governments fucking with people in these.

4 (28m 1s):
Absolutely. It's

3 (28m 2s):
These chat rooms

4 (28m 3s):
And

3 (28m 3s):
Message

4 (28m 4s):
Board. Absolutely. It is.

3 (28m 5s):
Yeah.

4 (28m 6s):
And you can sway the uninformed. They're not uninformed. Yeah. They're misinformed. Yeah. They're informed, you know, they're taking in information, but, but, but it's just the wrong information in, so you can be easily manipulated by that kind of stuff. Yeah. I mean the human nature wants to go where it finds comfort, you know? Yeah. And if somebody's feeding you what you eat, you, you'll go that way. You know, even if it's not good for you.

3 (28m 28s):
And people have a very strong desire to like uncover mysteries. Right. You know, very strong desire to get to the truth. Yeah. Because in a, in important situations, like if there's something real going on that's a, that's a good quality. It's a good quality to have. But if it's, you know, they're eating babies, it's like, okay. Right. What, what's the benefit? Eating babies? Like why are they doing this?

4 (28m 53s):
Oh yeah. It gives a, gives 'em some kind of superpower, you know, and it, it's so Bazar and so off of any, what I would consider realm of possibility of the ev even part of it being true ev But, you know, people go down there and they'll see just a path of things that lead them. You know, some of it true, some of it not true, not true, not true, not true. And they'll head off down that direction. They don't come back, you know, they're, you know, it can separate families, man, that, you know, don't talk to grandpa anymore. He is gone off the fucking deep

3 (29m 22s):
End. And you know, what's really insidious about that is that the more crazy ones that are out there, and the more people start linking them all together, the more real conspiracies sneak through. Because if you're, if you wanted to hide a real conspiracy, I, I would hide it in a bunch of other bullshit conspiracies. I'd put a bunch of bullshit ones out there. Sure. And I'd make it so that morons believe that Michelle Obama has a dick. I would just pump it out everywhere. I'd make fake

4 (29m 54s):
Videos. And that's what, that's exactly what's going on.

3 (29m 57s):
That's what's going on. And, but if you did that though, then you could sneak in some real conspiracies and that otherwise people would think, well that's outrageous. That kind of corruption would be uncovered. Right. That kind of corruption would be prosecuted. And you're like, wait, no one's going to, anybody's getting busted for this. This is right. What?

4 (30m 15s):
Right. Nobody

3 (30m 16s):
Getting

4 (30m 16s):
Investigated. Right. So it's not really happening, you know,

3 (30m 19s):
It's bananas.

4 (30m 20s):
But, and, and also people want to, you know, I and I know because somebody that has no formal education, right. I don't have any formal education. I didn't make it through high school. My, my favorite joke that I ever wrote was, I do have a GED and if You don't know what GED stands for, you've probably got one too. And that's one of my favorite jokes. But you know, they, they, they would love to have the answer to a question. You know, they would love to be able to make a point of some kind. You know, they would love to, but they can't 'cause they're, you know, they're just sitting around watching other people do it. and I wish, I wish I could think of something to say. and I, I can't think of anything. Well, if there's somebody feeding them something to say, now they get real loud about it. Right.

4 (30m 60s):
Because they have a point to make, even though they don't understand it at all. They just know how to sound like they're making a point. Like Lauren Bobert or you know, or Marjorie Taylor Green or whoever, they, that's who they were. And now they feel like they can make a point. So they'll be real fucking loud about it. And, and, but if you've actually been around a while, you just sit around and shake your head and go, you're a goddamn idiot. But all you gotta do is be the smartest person in your region and boom, you're in Congress. You know, they think she's smart as fuck down there. And that one little section of Georgia where my Taylor's outta

3 (31m 35s):
It, the problem with it is like, how many people that you know want to run the government? How many people do you know how many I mean? How many people that you know, that are like really healthy, clear thinking business-minded people that have been successful, that wanna run the government? Nobody fucking, nobody. Nobody. So you're not getting any of those folks?

4 (31m 59s):
No, you're not. And what you're gonna get is you're gonna get their money to influence things in the direction they'd like to see it go without them having to be there doing day-to-Day stuff on it. So they can have influence on it. But they don't want to, they don't, do they want to be the president of the United States? Do

3 (32m 15s):
They have it set up like a minor league? Like they groom politicians, they get into a position and like, I like how you stand on this, right. But maybe if you stood a little bit further on this line, we could support you. Oh, this. Absolutely.

4 (32m 27s):
And then they start grooming them.

3 (32m 29s):
Absolutely. Grooming 'em for the big stage. Just like you would do with like regional plays. And then all of a sudden you're on Broadway. Right?

4 (32m 35s):
Well that's, you know, that's the religious right. You know, they're, you know, they wanted, they wanted somebody, they wanted to get rid of abortion. So what are they gonna do? They gotta stack those courts. What are you gonna do? You're gonna, okay, we got, there's a trillion of us and we'll put you in office and we'll just be, but you gotta, you gotta put this judge here and this judge there. So what our thing GOs to pass. So that's just the way it works.

3 (32m 57s):
I'm even more cynical. I, I just can't believe that human beings as a whole haven't resolved a bunch of different things. There's a few, there's a bunch I don I don't believe are really coming back around. I think people are making this argument that they're coming back around and they're highlighting moments where it's coming back around,

4 (33m 19s):
Coming back around to what?

3 (33m 22s):
I just don't, I just I mean. I think this is one of the weirdest times ever for human beings to communicate and I think because there's so many of us and there's so many people that are talking and there's so many voices and it's happening on everyone's phone and it's happening all over the fucking world. All at once.

4 (33m 45s):
Never been like this. Ever, ever in the history. and it makes you wonder where it's going. I

3 (33m 50s):
Think it's short circuiting everything I do too. It's short circuiting our government. It's short circuiting.

4 (33m 55s):
It makes me nervous. And one of the things that makes me nervous, this government that we have, it's complicated. Complicated.

3 (34m 0s):
Complicated.

4 (34m 1s):
It is complicated. So you just can't be some douche bag on the side going, I want him outta there. Well, you gotta have a plan. 'cause this thing's gotta work. You, you want You don't want chef separation of church and state. Well why don't you just move to Iran then? Because that's what happened over there. The religious right. Took over. Now our laws are your laws. That used to be a pretty normal place. People don't believe that. But Iran used to be fucking strawberry rivers and shit. And normal people with jobs and

3 (34m 29s):
Run. There were people that were willing to laugh at people's deaths because they didn't want to get vaccinated for Covid. There were, there were people like that at the same time thinking they're good people. Yeah. All on the internet.

4 (34m 46s):
I know. I know. You know, and when it came to all that stuff, you know, me don don't talk about politics on stage and I never, I never knew and I never will. And there and, and it is not, oh, you just wanna be able to sell tickets to both people. But no, I want standup comedy to be a place where we can laugh and I'm gonna do what I, you know, I, so I'm not gonna take a pos I never did if I was a political commentator before. Okay, that's fine. If I'm not Bill Maher. So I don't bring it into my show because I want us all to come in and just be able to fucking laugh together and find out how much that matters. And at the end of my shows now, I'm reminding people that no matter what our differences are, we just still came to this room and we all laughed at the same thing and we laughed hard and we loved each other and we had a great experience.

4 (35m 28s):
Let's remember that. Let's try to get back to that. Right. You know, instead of all this, all these stupid little things that makes it look like we have, it's like fake rivalries. Exactly. Almost. It's like, it's not like, you know, Texas and Oklahoma. They're, you look, you they're the same place. Exactly. There's no difference between those two places. And they act like, well, we're Oklahoma, you're we're, and somebody put that in their head, you know? And what

3 (35m 52s):
I was getting at was that if they're willing to do that over just some issue of whether you want to or don't want to get a vaccine, what would they do if they really believed that God was on their side? What would they do in a really bad

4 (36m 6s):
Anything? They

3 (36m 7s):
Could Yeah. A really, when things go really bad,

4 (36m 9s):
Anything they could,

3 (36m 10s):
When the power goes out for a while,

4 (36m 13s):
Anything they could

3 (36m 14s):
Yeah. You know, and justify it. And,

4 (36m 16s):
And I And that's what's dangerous is they genuinely do believe that it's a law. Yes. That, that we, we would be better off if we did things like this for sure. Under these laws of God and this book, that by when Jesus would get back to his basic teachings that I'd really dug, you know, which is love each other. Love, love, love. And wait a minute, that was linen. But still Jesus was singing a similar song about, you know, and, and with a good positive message. And that message was always of love, you know? Yeah. Back when I went to church and, you know, my uncle still a preacher to this day, Dr. Charles Pollard, still preaching to the American Indians out in Farmington, New Mexico for no money, you know, wow.

4 (36m 58s):
Has 23 people about at every service. Then he goes to jails and, and he's 90 years old, you know, still working to this day still. Wow. Knocking it out for the Lord. And, and he used to be the president of the Southern Baptist Convention. My, my uncle did. So that was a very powerful position. And then he fell out of favor with 'em. 'cause he just didn't believe in some of the doctorate. And, and then he started, he showed up at my grandmother's birthday party on a Harley with no shirt on. I'm like, oh, no, tropical Charlie's gone nuts. And So he went down to Corpus, I think it was, and he started this kind of the gospel according to Charlie thing.

4 (37m 41s):
And, and then he has just a kind of a phase he went through. And then he, you know, but now he, he he's still believes in in that basic doctrine. And, and I love him to death. He's one of my favorite people. I'll talk to him All day long. You know, I just, he's a treasure really is, and just a sweetheart of a guy about all, about, you know, love and sweetness. That's awesome. His wife died and, and I asked him, I said, did your knowledge of of God and Jesus and did that help you with her death? And he goes, Nope. Not a bit. It hurt. and it hurt. and I hated and I didn't understand it.

4 (38m 22s):
I was like everybody else, you know? Yeah. Didn't even help. So now, but that's just how honest he is. So, wow. Uncle Charlie help you

3 (38m 33s):
Do this. Isn't it fascinating how much religion's practiced by so many different people in so many different ways? And yet if someone tried to start a new one right now, good fucking luck. Good luck. The, the, the Feds would investigate you right? Immediately if you start, if you start your own religion, if you bought some land out in Bastrop, right. And the, the Ron White church.

4 (38m 54s):
No. And you're already thinking about doing this. No. Aren No, no. You're just putting my name on it. No, no, no. I know what

3 (38m 58s):
You're doing. I'm not interested in any of those activities. I'm

4 (39m 1s):
Not either.

3 (39m 2s):
But if you

4 (39m 2s):
Did, I would get my uncle to come run it. They

3 (39m 4s):
Would, but you would 100% get investigated.

4 (39m 7s):
Oh yeah, I would.

3 (39m 8s):
But if you wanted to open up a Catholic church, if you said you converted to Catholicism and you wanted her to open up Ron White's Catholic church. Right. They'd be

4 (39m 15s):
Like, oh, with a mission and I

3 (39m 17s):
Respectable position to take Ron. Right. Good. Good for you. Congratulations on converting.

4 (39m 22s):
It's hard to get new money. It

3 (39m 23s):
Is. Yeah. You can't start, you can't have it be a startup in the religion world. It's, I think

4 (39m 27s):
That's discouraging. Charlie found out he's gotta be a hook to a brand of some sort.

3 (39m 32s):
You have to be in business with the big guys. You can't, you could I mean like Scientology, that's, you could, you could, you can get wild and go with them or you know, Mormons, you can get wild go with them. But if you just wanna like, go like straight Christian, you're like a very acceptable pathway.

4 (39m 49s):
You Yeah. You, you and, and you and I can get along with you if, if you're Scientology, that one's really hard for me to swallow. But it's hard. but it, it's just difficult.

3 (39m 59s):
Let me ask you this, like what are the standards? Like say if you wanted to start a church, like if you were legitimately committed to the Bible and you became like a Bible scholar,

4 (40m 8s):
But all you've really done is write science fiction novels. No,

3 (40m 11s):
No, no, no. That's, that's, that's that guy. That's the Scientology guy. But I'm saying if you wanted to start a church, like a church, a a Christian Church, what would be the requirements if you just say, you know, I've been studying the Bible for 10 years, I want to teach at a church. Could you just open up a church? How does that work, don?

4 (40m 30s):
Don't you? You're you're asking me this, like, I've done it, but it

3 (40m 34s):
I haven't, I'm trying to get you to do it. That's the next thing I'm trying

4 (40m 36s):
Do. Yeah. I know what you're up to. That's how you manipulate people, Joe. Do you, that's that's how they built this empire, by the way. You look like a

3 (40m 42s):
Jesus type figure. What are the requirements? Jamie, if I, if you wanted to start the church of Jamie. This is a perfect

5 (40m 48s):
Question for Che. GPTF. Yeah. So I asked Che GPT and there are 12

3 (40m 51s):
Steps. It gave me 12 steps. Determine your purpose and beliefs clearly define the purpose and beliefs of your church. This includes your mission, vision, and core doctrines. Okay.

4 (40m 60s):
Two

3 (41m 0s):
Legal structure. Choose a legal structure for your church. Options may include becoming a non-profit organ organization establishing a religious corporation or forming a religious association. Consult legal experts to determine the best structure for your situation. Name it. Okay. So it seems like you just have to like get a legal thing, you know, like you would like some sort of an LLC or something. Yeah. Or

4 (41m 21s):
Whatever. What do you want? What you want is the tax exempt status and then the rest of it doesn't really matter. Yeah. You get that tax exempt status, then you can start hoarding wealth. Yes. On the name of Jesus Christ, of the Latter Day Saints or whatever. And you can hold all these billions of dollars in real estate holdings all under that tax exempt status. If they start, you know, the, this is the only thing that gets me going is big church. Big church. We need to tax big church. And, and, and, and, and, and those pastors, those megachurches, they need to be looked at under the biggest, brightest light You can look at Joel Osteen. Fuck you Osteen. I tried. He said it right here first.

4 (42m 3s):
You know the mattress Max makes a much better to me. If you want an example of how Christ wanted us to live, it would be Mattress Max and not Joel Olsteen. I

3 (42m 15s):
Don't know who. Max. Max.

4 (42m 16s):
Well he's the guy that bets him 10 million bucks on the, on the Astros every year and wins. He, this is how he got famous. That's Mattress Max right there. He, during the big floods in Houston just a few years ago when, here's two things that happened. Mattress Max people were literally dying in the street. Mattress. Max owned these huge furniture stores come up here, you opened them up, sleep on them couches. don don't care. and I'll find a way to make food for you guys. Wow. And I mean people bringing hot dogs and shit down there. Making everybody food slept. Just make sure you're comfortable. Make sure you're safe. And, and look at that.

4 (42m 57s):
This is it. All these people over at Mattress Max's furniture store, he brought in everybody he could, but Joel Osteen wouldn't even let 'em in the door because they just had the carpets redone at his cathedral church and he didn't want people tracking shit in there.

3 (43m 12s):
Didn't he eventually give in though and let people stay there?

4 (43m 15s):
I don't think so. I thought he did. Well if he did it did it for the wrong reason. Right. Mattress Max did that for the right reason. These people needed to get in out of the cold and go out and whatever. There he is. There he is.

3 (43m 29s):
Def he defended not opening Lakewood church in Houston to Harvey victims. He defended it.

4 (43m 35s):
Yeah. Yeah. Because of that carpet was just cleaned. And look at him, bro. That's

3 (43m 39s):
So crazy. Yeah. First of

4 (43m 41s):
All, look at him.

3 (43m 42s):
You, you, it's, it's so obvious. Like doing something like that is so obvious. You have a private jet that's, it's so obvious you have a mansion. It's so obvious. How much does that watch? This is so obvious. Yeah. What you're doing is so obvious. This this is not

5 (44m 0s):
It did eventually or correct way. Just see if even weeks after that post,

3 (44m 7s):
The super duper rich church guy is a fucking crazy thing,

4 (44m 11s):
You know, and I humble bull eyes of Jesus, you know that I could do it. I I could totally do it. That would be my calling. And that's what

3 (44m 18s):
Im saying. You should do it.

4 (44m 19s):
And that doesn't mean I should do it.

3 (44m 21s):
Yes. Listen, if you do it, we'll all join. We all get like tax free something. We'll work something out.

4 (44m 25s):
Right. and it will just be us. And

3 (44m 27s):
That's

4 (44m 28s):
Great shooting people. Can we bring the 11 million people that listen to your show under

3 (44m 33s):
Yeah. Everybody under one umbrella.

4 (44m 34s):
Come on guys, come on. Get behind this. We don't even know what it is yet, but we're gonna let you know.

3 (44m 39s):
That's the thing you could never do today. Like imagine trying to start a new country today. Fuck you. We would never let you No

4 (44m 47s):
Uhuh

3 (44m 47s):
Never.

4 (44m 48s):
No. We'd thumb you. Yeah.

3 (44m 49s):
Get the fuck outta here. Yeah. It's like, just like you trying to start a new religion, Uhuh. Nope, nope. No new countries, no new religions. We're not hearing it. Religions have to be old as fuck. So they might be true.

4 (45m 4s):
Right. Or at least have some kind of connection to some really ancient text.

3 (45m 8s):
Yeah. Or, or this, you know, the Scientology one, they just threatened to sue, that was a Genius move. What they did was amazing. They, they threatened thousands of lawsuits. Everyone was gonna file a lawsuit. They're

4 (45m 21s):
All lawyers. The same with those fucking Latter Day Saints guys. Those are, you got a bunch of lawyers, you gotta

3 (45m 27s):
Give it up to 'em, man. That's pretty ball. Yeah. Pretty ballsy.

4 (45m 31s):
And it worked and, and you're selling a something that's not easy to sell. You know, they gotta, that story I mean none of it's, you know, the, the, the stories I believed, well that's why I wrote that beautiful joke that didn't work the other day. And about the Christians and the Lions. Oh yeah, yeah. And the, and oh, let me break that down for your listeners. The, because I'm writing, apparently I'm writing my worst stuff right now. 'cause I now I can write stuff that nobody will laugh at outta 250 people. 250 people don't laugh. And, but when I was a kid, I was raised in the Baptist Church, uncle Charlie, my preacher when I was little. And so, but there was a storybook. It wasn't the Bible, but it was just something we got in Sunday school and it depicted Christians being fed to the lions, which always stuck in my craw.

4 (46m 17s):
That that was a big story, a big deal. I mean, you know, don don't I know we've all been oppressed. But feeding them to the, that's a pretty big deal. and I really thought it was universal knowledge. So when they were looking for a new name for the Washington Commanders, I suggested the Christians because when, and, and, and I thought about this joke for three days and I thought about the buildup of laughter it was gonna get and it was gonna work so well. And they were gonna end up changing the name of the comedy club to Ron White's mothership because of this one joke and how well it worked. But the way that it was gonna start, the Rumble was gonna start is, I was gonna say when, when Detroit comes to town, they're gonna make the connections of Detroit Lions, lions Christians, my storybook from my childhood. And that's, that's the rumble of the really hip laughter.

4 (46m 59s):
And because when the lions get back to the, that's the next laugh was gonna be when the lions meet the Christians on a pleaing playing field we're, you know, so none of it got a laugh and none of it, none of it worked. And they stared at me and there was a good crowd too. They were waiting for the next funny thing that I said and, and that was it. and I really was expecting it. and it just, I was never been so wrong about it. Do

3 (47m 22s):
You think you are just old enough to where you're like over that curve where the Christians and the Lions were more recent than they were?

4 (47m 32s):
Yeah, I just don't think everybody got that storybook. Nobody

3 (47m 34s):
Gets that anymore.

4 (47m 35s):
No, I didn't. Well obviously we

3 (47m 37s):
Used to get I got it. Yeah. I got Christians and Lions. Yeah, I got that connection. don don't think kids get that connection.

4 (47m 42s):
But you said you would've told me not to do it, which was a lie. Yeah. Because you would've told me to do it. 'cause you, you want me to try new shit.

3 (47m 47s):
Always wanted, but I just, I was joking around. I said, don't I would've told you not to do it. I was

4 (47m 51s):
Joking. No, you would've told me to do it. That's you told Bomb and you would've been wrong.

3 (47m 54s):
But you told me a bomb before. You've been wrong. Before I ever found out about it. I did. Bomb. and I said, I would told you not

4 (47m 58s):
Not to do that. Pat, it's so laughably. I laugh so hard at how wrong I was. That's how little, but that's how you fuck

3 (48m 3s):
Around and find

4 (48m 4s):
Out. Isn't that the truth? That's

3 (48m 6s):
How you I mean. Bits are fascinating. They changed, they changed their structure. Like on stage.

4 (48m 11s):
I could do five minutes now on why that joke didn't work. Yep. And but that would be way more entertaining than the joke ever was. You know, show up Tuesday.

3 (48m 21s):
Dude, I was watching a video today of this lion gone wrong situation in a circus. Whew. Oh my God. These people, this lion attacked this dude and they're hitting it with a hose I mean this guy's getting fucked up by this lion and they're spraying it with a hose to get it off. That's how they get it off of the water hose. And he gets away and then the lion gets 'em again and the lion gets 'em again and they're water hosed it. And they're beating

4 (48m 47s):
It. You got footage of this?

3 (48m 48s):
Yeah. There's footage of it. It looks like it's Russian. If you don't find it, Jamie, I, I'm 99% sure I saved it on my phone 'cause it's so fucked up. But I'd have to go through it. That would be some dead air

4 (49m 2s):
Russian ho.

3 (49m 3s):
I forget who sent it to me.

4 (49m 5s):
You don't edit these things, do you? No,

3 (49m 7s):
I got it. the podcast? Yeah. No, I want it to be like this. Right,

4 (49m 11s):
Right,

3 (49m 11s):
Right. Yeah. I want, I like a little dead air. This is it. So something happens.

4 (49m 15s):
Oh, it's a circus thing. Yeah.

3 (49m 16s):
Something happens. This line just decides e fucking enough. Ooh. I mean this thing. Just Jacksons dude.

4 (49m 23s):
Yeah. Well that's what happened to, you

3 (49m 25s):
Know, and you see they're spraying them with a hose to try to get 'em off. I mean this guy got fucked up. I mean he got fucked up by those lions. That's, that is so scary. Yeah. To have a thing like that bite you fuck. Right.

4 (49m 37s):
That well what you doing in there? Crazy.

3 (49m 40s):
Are you fucking

4 (49m 40s):
Crazy? That's crazy. Zigfield and Zig and Roy. Siegfried and Roy, I can't even think of them. Siegfried and Roy. That happened in that room that I played at The Mirage. That was that, that was their room, man. That's where that whole thing went down.

3 (49m 52s):
Yeah. It dragged him off. Bit bit him by the neck and dragged him off

4 (49m 57s):
In front of a live audience.

3 (49m 59s):
There's all the speculation to why it did it. All the spec no one knows. Right. No one knows. It just decided, I'm gonna bite this guy's neck and drag him off. There was a thought that it was afraid of some woman had feathers on her hat and the audience and that it threw him off. And I'm like, you really think that fucking tigers are scared of a lady with feathers on her head? Right. That doesn't make any sense. Yeah. I think he just decided to bite that guy's neck. But I'm not a tiger.

4 (50m 26s):
Maybe that guy would've been a, was being a prick, you know, under the guise of being an animal lover. But at night he was like going, don't give him the expensive food. And you know, that

3 (50m 36s):
Cheap. Well, maybe it was that cheap. It was probably punishment. It's probably what they do to the tigers to get them to listen. Right. You know, like, what did they do when you were training them? You know, did they ever cross a line where the tiger always remember the time you heard it. Right. and it lashes out at you.

4 (50m 50s):
Yeah. I'm gonna find a fucking opportunity. Yeah. I'm gonna sit here.

3 (50m 54s):
Yeah. You'd think the tigers won't have its good

4 (50m 56s):
Memories. It's gonna be served cold baby. It's gonna be served cold.

3 (50m 58s):
It seemed like for the most part, they got along with those tigers for a long time though. That's what's weird. They

4 (51m 3s):
Lived at their house. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Siegfried and Roy, they lived at their house. They were at one with 'em. They fucking cuddled them and you know, loved on 'em.

3 (51m 10s):
And they do say that Tigers, when they protect their cubs, that's, that's how they do it. They grab 'em by the neck and they drag 'em off. But he's just too frail for it to do that too. It just fucked him up.

4 (51m 20s):
Yeah. Right. No, and and they, that those were big men. Big strong men. Yeah. I mean he, he was a, you know, these guys were weightlifters and circus.

3 (51m 27s):
Right. But I'm

4 (51m 28s):
Circus people, but nothing compared to that fucking lion.

3 (51m 31s):
You're not a cub, a lion cub. Oh, no, no. Like the way a lion picks up the cub, it has all this skin. So it grabs all that extra skin. You don't have any skin, so it just grabs

4 (51m 38s):
Your fucking neck. Yeah. It's all vital organ. Right. Christ. Oh my God. It was a shame that he, you know, he, he lived a long time as a, as a crippled person.

3 (51m 50s):
Well, he did, he lived several years. Right. So it was just a horrible story, man. And that the, the show was shut down. 'cause like, that's the reality of having tigers on a stage in front of a bunch of people. Like you just don't know it. Just for one reason or another, some crazy person could stand up and freakout and yell. Right. And the thing could just launch itself out. The the, is this it,

4 (52m 13s):
The question is,

3 (52m 14s):
Oh, don't you show it to me, son. I've

5 (52m 15s):
Been trying to find it. I don't, that's

4 (52m 16s):
Not what could go wrong. Everything. You gotta ask yourself that question. What could go wrong? 'cause that might

3 (52m 23s):
Oh, he, wait. He was saying something about his diminishing relationship with that lion. This is

5 (52m 27s):
Or tiger from four or five years ago. I was trying to see if it had an answer to all the questions you guys are asking.

3 (52m 34s):
But it said something about his diminishing relationship with it. Oh my God. He rode it like

5 (52m 37s):
A horse. There's speculation on from someone they asked on this.

4 (52m 41s):
Yeah. Like an ex-employer or something. I think I saw that. Oh,

3 (52m 43s):
So

4 (52m 44s):
He was going,

3 (52m 45s):
The tiger and him were not getting along.

5 (52m 46s):
They don't, that's again, it's his speculation. This says new allegations about the attack, which is, this would've been like 15 years after the attack even happened.

3 (52m 54s):
Dude. Almost nothing scares me more than animals.

4 (52m 57s):
Right. I'm so

3 (52m 58s):
Scared of them.

4 (52m 59s):
That's why, you know, that's why you go outta your way to, to kill 'em when you can. And,

3 (53m 3s):
Well, those aren't, I'm not scared of those. Although I'm

4 (53m 6s):
You should be boars. Don't you hunt boar.

3 (53m 9s):
Yeah, I do.

4 (53m 10s):
Yeah. Those things can kill you, Joe. They

3 (53m 12s):
Definitely can. Yeah, they can. Yeah. I'm thinking elk more the, the the board thing in Texas is fucking bananas.

4 (53m 20s):
I just love it when they catch 'em all in them cages. That's, and and then what do they do with it? They can You eat 'em. And is is it just pig meat, right?

3 (53m 26s):
Yeah, it's pig meat. It's just pork. It's really good. You make

4 (53m 29s):
Really good bacon and shit out of it.

3 (53m 30s):
Well, it's, why,

4 (53m 31s):
Why are there any homeless, hungry people? It's a good question. We got those wild bora all over the place.

3 (53m 36s):
Wild Bora. Very good. Very good. There's a guy in town, Jesse Griffiths. He owns Ddue Restaurant and he's like a real wild game cooking expert and amazing chef. Yeah. And he has wild boar dishes at his place. Even teaches people how to hunt wild boars, cook them and, and how to hunt them down. How to fire rifle the whole deal. Takes 'em to the whole thing. Butcher 'em skin 'em,

4 (53m 60s):
Eat 'em shit. 'em into their commode. Fuck with

3 (54m 3s):
Me. He's like, they're delicious.

4 (54m 4s):
Fuck with me.

3 (54m 5s):
But it's also poor. But also it's, it's a not just a renewable resource, but you really, we have an obligation to kill them. There's too many. Yeah.

4 (54m 13s):
They're, they're fucking up land and

3 (54m 15s):
Oh, there's an insane, there's millions and millions of 'em in Texas. Yeah. And they keep, they have babies three times a year. Sometimes they can have babies when they're six months old.

4 (54m 24s):
Can I tell you a story about a frog? Yeah. I lived on a lake, lake LBJ in his house. And there was a frog, big bull frog. And he was lived by my pier. and I would go out there and I would see him and he'd always jump in the water. And, and, but he was, that's where he lived. He was always a big old fat thing to that this big biggest bullfrog I'd seen. And I'd go down there and fish and then I'd come back there. And then one night he didn't jump. He stayed there and I'm like, oh, he is not afraid of me anymore. The next night I brought in Ned down and I caught him and I killed him and ate him and I shit him into my toilet. And, and the other frogs went out and told other frogs, don't go near there because that's what's going on.

4 (55m 5s):
He's, he's just waiting for you to be still and he's gonna kill you and eat you and shit you into his toilet. You think they figured

3 (55m 11s):
That

4 (55m 11s):
Part out? and I think they did? I didn't see any more frogs after that, after the missing of that one frog.

3 (55m 17s):
Yeah, I bet if you started feeding them, they'd be hanging around. But if you start killing them

4 (55m 22s):
Yeah. Right.

3 (55m 23s):
They

4 (55m 24s):
Probably Right. They're they're gonna, they're, it's not gonna catch on.

3 (55m 26s):
Do you think they do a roll call to try to figure out where everybody is? 'cause some animals do that. Do they really? Yeah. Maybe that's what frogs are doing when they're great, great, great

4 (55m 35s):
Great creek. Oh, where's Toby? Yeah.

3 (55m 37s):
What are they doing when they're doing those noises? Those noises are cool as fuck. By the way, if you ever buy a lake at night and you hear frogs making noises, oh, it's so cool.

4 (55m 46s):
I hate 'em. Really? We had those little frogs, that noise when I lived in Atlanta, you know what we did? We would go, they bark with a mouth that big on a little frog, barely that big. Making this big old loud noise that bugged the shit outta me. And you could, they were easy to catch because you, there was a flashlight. 'cause they don't know that you can see 'em, you know, and they're making all that racket and you can just pick 'em up, put 'em in a can, and then we would take 'em. This guy didn't like, had a pond right behind it, the house. And we'd go dump 'em all over there. And he is like, I know frogs around here. Just fucking all over making all this rack. Yeah. I don't know. Not over at my house. They're not. Yeah. That's that one of those little,

3 (56m 20s):
This is night music. Ron.

4 (56m 23s):
These is not the ones we had, we had ones where

3 (56m 26s):
We just needed to put together a better band.

4 (56m 28s):
Yeah. Well they're gonna put that band together over at that pond, behind that guy's house. Because you know, the thing about, that's where they all live now. The

3 (56m 35s):
Thing about frogs, like, they're very predatory like frogs. You ever seen frogs in like a cage with mice? It's one of the most disturbing things you've ever seen in your life. No,

4 (56m 45s):
I've never seen

3 (56m 46s):
That. This is giant Asian frog. I had it on my Instagram. It's on YouTube. It's this giant, some kind of Asian frog. That one. The second one down one. This, the, the yellow where he is yellow. Watch this one. This one is fucking insane. This frog's insane. So they put these little rats. I can't tell if they're mice or rats. Those are mice, right? Yeah. Yeah, mice.

4 (57m 8s):
They look like mice.

3 (57m 9s):
Okay, so they put these mice in this fucking No, those are rats, man. Those are little rats. Yeah, those are rats. Yeah. Okay. And then they put this giant frog in there with them. and I don't know why they all, they're trying to jump and get out and all of a sudden the frog just decided to start eating them.

4 (57m 26s):
I think.

3 (57m 28s):
I think they're trying, just trying to get out. But look what he does. It's, he's a monster. This is like a Star Wars monster. Oh

4 (57m 34s):
My God.

3 (57m 36s):
Oh dude. Hess them

4 (57m 38s):
All too. He's a good job of the

3 (57m 39s):
Hut. Yeah, exactly. He,

4 (57m 40s):
He eats 'em all.

3 (57m 41s):
This one's not effective. I've seen, I think he's probably already full. They probably look how fat he is. They probably filmed these All day long. God,

4 (57m 48s):
How cruel.

3 (57m 49s):
But he is anybody, the one that I saw, he ate.

4 (57m 52s):
Anybody trying to put a stop to this?

3 (57m 54s):
Nobody's putting a stop to nobody. Nobody

4 (57m 56s):
Cares about

3 (57m 56s):
The rats or frogs. Rats or frogs get no respect.

4 (58m 2s):
We'll make that part of our religion.

3 (58m 3s):
Isn't it funny though? Can't, like if the the rat was eating the frog, I'd be more disturbed.

4 (58m 9s):
Oh my God.

3 (58m 10s):
Look at how gross that thing is. Yeah.

4 (58m 13s):
Look

3 (58m 13s):
At it. Look at how big

4 (58m 15s):
It is. I've never even probably seen a frog shaped like that. Oh,

3 (58m 19s):
Look at it.

4 (58m 20s):
Slow motion. Yeah. Come on over here. Yeah. Let me tell you something. We got a little story for you.

3 (58m 26s):
It seemed like the rat rant right in there. Like, fuck it. Let's just get this over with. Oh my God. What a way to die. Ah, with your, your balls hanging on the chin. Oh man. Of a thing that's swallowing. You look at those little balls.

4 (58m 40s):
Oh, the last dying quiver.

3 (58m 42s):
Oh bro. He's gonna stay alive inside the thing's gut for

4 (58m 45s):
Quite a while. Let your children watch this. This is really, really gross. So disturbing. Gross. Yeah. I've I'm trying to unsee it and I can't do it. I can't do it. That's what happens.

3 (58m 55s):
That's nature,

4 (58m 56s):
Man. That's part of The Joe. Rogan Experience right there. That's

3 (58m 59s):
Nature. That's why you shouldn't have crocodiles in the street. That's why you shouldn't import wolves into your neighborhood. That's right. That's why you shouldn't bring grizzly bears back to California. My mother slow down everybody.

4 (59m 11s):
My mother wants a, you know, and you know how low things got with mom Now I want a cat. And I'm like, no mother. You can't have a cat. Jeanie's allergic to cats. Now I want one of those bal cats. They're hypoallergenic. Oh my God. For my mother, my nine 90-year-old mother and I, yeah, I think they're pretty good sized cats. Like 15, 20 pounds. And I'm like, no. She's said, I want you to get me a bingle cat for my 90th birthday. and I said mother number one, I'm not advancing you anymore. Birthdays. You gotta show me the number. You gotta get to the number before you get your 90th. I'm not fronting you any 90th birthday. I'm gonna, you have to get to that number to get that present.

4 (59m 51s):
'cause you already got 'em. You know, you're already advanced. All you can. So, so if she the one, she lives to be 90, she might get a Wow. It's just a few months away.

3 (1h 0m 0s):
No, aren't am I thinking of the same kind of cat? Like which ones are the one, which ones are Bengals?

4 (1h 0m 5s):
It's a horrible idea. It's,

3 (1h 0m 6s):
There's some of 'em that are, they're basically like a wild cat. Like

4 (1h 0m 9s):
Yeah, well they're not very many generations removed, I think is the problem. and I think they're perfectly good cats, but they're really big and they're really a lot of energy. I

3 (1h 0m 18s):
Think

4 (1h 0m 19s):
They're kind of different. 'cause you can take 'em out on a leash and stuff. My mother doesn't want to do that. She, I'm like, take your York a leash. What? Or something. A little laptop. She wants a

3 (1h 0m 26s):
Big Am I, am I fucking this up? Is it like, is it the same thing? Is it Bengal the same thing as those other ones that like No,

4 (1h 0m 33s):
I think they're called Bal Kittens. You know, they, yeah, they're not, yeah, that's it right there.

5 (1h 0m 36s):
Yeah. It's just a regular Beed

3 (1h 0m 39s):
Cat. Okay. Yeah. So they're, so that's a regular cat. So I'm thinking of that. I'm thinking of the serval.

4 (1h 0m 44s):
Oh yeah. No.

3 (1h 0m 45s):
Okay. So what is a Bengal Cat's just a cat, right? Is that just a

4 (1h 0m 49s):
Cat? Yeah. Yeah. but it comes from the Bengal tiger. And you know, they're just a handful, you know, it's not like a big old floppy lap cat. These cats, you know, they kill, they're big time killers. They gotta be involved in stuff. They've got a lot of energy. They're big and strong. So they're up to like, you know, 15, 20 pounds, I think. Look at the

3 (1h 1m 9s):
Description. The Bengal cat is domesticated cat breed created from a hybrid of the Asian leopard cat with domestic cats. Especially the spotted Egyptian Mao. So that, yeah, there you go. I was in my head, I was like, I think I fucked up. And it's the wrong one. That one is crazy. I've seen people have that one as a pet. There's you have. Yeah. Yeah. Did John Jones have one of those as a pet?

4 (1h 1m 35s):
That's a, just a lion.

3 (1h 1m 36s):
Didn't he have a crazy cat? I think

5 (1h 1m 38s):
He's got one of these.

3 (1h 1m 39s):
What does he have? Oh

4 (1h 1m 40s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 1m 40s):
What, what kind, what kind is that?

4 (1h 1m 42s):
That looks like that bingle cat.

5 (1h 1m 44s):
Yeah, it does look more like that than the serv cat.

3 (1h 1m 45s):
It's says serv though, doesn't it? I typed

5 (1h 1m 47s):
That in don Don't. I was.

3 (1h 1m 50s):
Oh, what kind of fucking cat is that? Man?

4 (1h 1m 52s):
I don't know. Does it have a jacket on?

3 (1h 1m 54s):
Yeah. It's kinda like a fucking leash. That's a big ass cat. A big cat. Yeah, bro. I would not Donald careful Donald

4 (1h 2m 2s):
Mother's. Mother's 90. That's not what she wants. And she's, because she get so stubborn, it

3 (1h 2m 8s):
Could be awesome. I want a cat. It could be awesome. It could be the greatest cat of all time. Or it could be, it decides to fuck you up and

4 (1h 2m 14s):
It could eat her. Yeah. You know, she couldn't defend herself if it went nuts on her. That's what our story was earlier today in the episode. Yeah. People getting eaten by tiger

3 (1h 2m 25s):
First responders when they find bodies after people have died in a house with cats, it doesn't take long before the cats start eating.

4 (1h 2m 34s):
Right.

3 (1h 2m 35s):
They don't give you a whole lot of time before they start

4 (1h 2m 37s):
Eating. Oh, mama.

3 (1h 2m 39s):
Dogs will wait.

4 (1h 2m 41s):
They will. Yeah.

3 (1h 2m 42s):
Dogs will wait until they're starving to death. They're dying. They don't even associate you with the you anymore. You just meat. And they have to stay alive. Right. Cats are like, I'm hungry. Yeah. I'm going to eat Ron's lips.

4 (1h 2m 53s):
Right. Get an eyeball nostril.

3 (1h 2m 57s):
It's a fascinating relationship that we have to these small animals. Like I was saying about your beautiful dog that you, you, if you Trace the lineage back of that thing that used to be a wolf, somehow or another, they went from wolves to like more of a floppy eared animal to more of an animal that was like smaller that hung. And then they figured out how to breed it

4 (1h 3m 19s):
All the way to a rug. That shits, that's what I own. That's a rug. That shits

3 (1h 3m 23s):
Like, how the fuck did they do that? So if you die in a home that's locked with animals, those animals will eat you really fast. Especially a cat. Dogs will hold out until they have nothing left to eat. But a cat will remove your head in 24 hours.

4 (1h 3m 35s):
Wow. Oh

3 (1h 3m 35s):
My God. Oh my God.

4 (1h 3m 37s):
What kinda loyalty they got over all that love quick. That cat never loved you. Oh my God. If it can eat your head in 24 hours, that cat never loved you. Oh God. It was just a I need food. I'm gonna be nice.

5 (1h 3m 48s):
Had a coroner

4 (1h 3m 48s):
On his podcast waiting for you to fucking die. I think I

3 (1h 3m 51s):
Explained it to him. Oh, the coroner was telling him? Yeah.

5 (1h 3m 54s):
Yeah. I think he asked him like, what kind of fucked up shit have you seen?

3 (1h 3m 56s):
He's like, animals. Well, you play that. Okay, play that right where you're saying that it'll remove your head within 24 hours. It was right before that.

6 (1h 4m 2s):
Your head and

3 (1h 4m 4s):
Checks. But back it up before that. Back it up for that.

6 (1h 4m 6s):
Well, well, so if you die in a home that's locked with animals, those animals will eat you really fast. Especially a cat. Dogs will hold out until they have nothing left to eat. But a cat will remove your head in 24 hours. And I'm not talking, I'm talking literally hair on the floor. No head and nibbling into their chest. Even cats that were loved by their owners. Or is it just cats that No, you think were had something with the owner and they're, and they're gonna say, this is my time. Yeah. No, they're, they're absolutely feeding on you. You know, I don't care how much you love that cat and that cat loved you, he's gonna eat you. and I just never, never imagined that they could do that much damage.

6 (1h 4m 48s):
You know, smaller dogs now, a lab, a lab won't a labs for some reason don't eat their owners. Wow. You know, unless they're locked in for months. I guess they would, but I find it more weenie Dogs, small dogs and cats. Cats. Cats don't, they don't. Wait. And how, how too,

4 (1h 5m 4s):
Now don don't know. don don't know if I believed the guy now.

3 (1h 5m 8s):
Why?

4 (1h 5m 8s):
Well, because I bet he has a lab. So he had to say, labs wouldn't eat you. I mean what? What makes a lab different than my sweet little Maddie? He's saying Madie would go after you after a little while, but, but the lab, come on.

3 (1h 5m 22s):
Yeah. Why would they think that the, maybe he means like chihuahuas or something like that. Like, or a little Jack Russell Terriers, they'll fuck you up quick. But like, what is, what's the the data on that? The lab's really, I, when you done,

5 (1h 5m 35s):
I think he's just going off of his experience. I don't know. I was trying to,

4 (1h 5m 37s):
I don't know where he gets his expertise. Yeah. I'm not, I'm not seeing this on NPR, this one coming on on my newsfeed. That's

5 (1h 5m 44s):
Why I was also kind of making that point. When I googled that and typed it in, it gives me like a TikTok fun fact. Like that's the fact that Google gave me, which was a fact from Theo's podcast. Oh yeah. That's like the top result.

4 (1h 5m 53s):
And and they're calling it a fact.

5 (1h 5m 55s):
I I mean.

3 (1h 5m 56s):
Well, I do know for a fact that cats eat people. Yeah.

4 (1h 5m 58s):
Yeah. That's fact. Well, it makes sense. I mean

3 (1h 5m 60s):
That's happened

4 (1h 6m 0s):
A bunch. People eat

3 (1h 6m 1s):
People that are you times I know people who have found people that where they got, you know, where their cops, where they found people that were partially eaten by their cats. That's a hundred percent real.

4 (1h 6m 11s):
That was a fun show that did that show for the cops. That was awesome, man. That was so much fun. That was awesome. Three cops got thrown out. I was like, that's right. They came to party folks, they came to have a good

3 (1h 6m 22s):
Time. They they didn't come to party. That was a lot of fun. That was a good fucking time. Those people don't get appreciated enough. No.

4 (1h 6m 28s):
And that's the truth. They

3 (1h 6m 30s):
Don't get appreciated enough. And if things go south, they're gonna be the first people you call. And you, you've been disrespecting 'em for so long and not appreciating how hard it is what they do for so fucking long. And that doesn't, that doesn't excuse the bad ones. That's not No, it doesn't, it's just you can't lump everybody in with that same group you got, because most of them are great.

4 (1h 6m 51s):
You gotta have these guys, you have to have 'em, you have this team man.

3 (1h 6m 54s):
You have to have

4 (1h 6m 55s):
'em. and it ain't the greatest job in the goddamn world. and it sure is dangerous. And some of 'em thrive on that kind of environment and that's great. I don't, and so I need, you know, and it was, it was just, it was so cool to be able to make 'em laugh that hard. 'cause you know, we had the death of that cop not too long ago, you know? Yeah. That, that, that's been a pretty dour place to work. That's what the guy was telling me, the chief of police was. They, you know, they hadn't been laughing. You know, they haven't been that really got everybody down and kept 'em down until Of course. So that was cool. That was so much fun.

3 (1h 7m 27s):
Yeah, it was fun. It was real fun to do. Yeah. It's, it's, you know,

4 (1h 7m 32s):
We should have started a church that night. We could have started, we'd have police force.

3 (1h 7m 35s):
We gotta plant these seeds carefully. That's right. And this is what we're doing today on the podcast. Yeah. Right. We're planting seeds. You can't just go out there and just dig a trench. Then the government starts getting involved quickly. We gotta like slowly plant seeds

4 (1h 7m 48s):
Based on a, a story of love. Yeah. And mutual respect.

3 (1h 7m 53s):
It would be great if we could buy into a franchise like Chick-fil-A, you know, or something. You know what I mean?

4 (1h 7m 58s):
Closed on Sunday. Now burgers

3 (1h 7m 60s):
Just buy into something. It's preexisting. You know,

4 (1h 8m 5s):
That way our challenge is gonna be started from scratch.

3 (1h 8m 8s):
Yeah. Just the church of Ron White just from scratch is going to, it's gonna be under a lot of scrutiny.

4 (1h 8m 12s):
No, dude. It's a Jo Joe Rogan. Ron White church. I ain't doing this by myself, man.

3 (1h 8m 18s):
But it's kind of funny. It really is kind of funny that if we did just both of us become Christian and then open up a Christian Church, no problems at all.

4 (1h 8m 25s):
You know, I got like 3 million followers. I wonder how far they would actually follow if I started leading You.

3 (1h 8m 31s):
Don't even want 3 million. If you get 300,000 to move into a, a, a town that you've created in the middle of the desert. Right.

4 (1h 8m 39s):
Rights I mean,

3 (1h 8m 39s):
That's that Portland movie. The, the, the Netflix series. Wild, wild Country. They, they literally bought into a town and

4 (1h 8m 47s):
It wasn't that bad. You know, that's what in beginning seemed like. I think it was you that said that. They always sound pretty good. You know, you're like, I can do this. And then Yeah. You know, then it gets soared. You, I nobody can handle that kind of power. Yeah. That's what it's, and that kind of focus of energy and we Yeah. You're the guy. You're the guy without, and it, it corrupts well, it just corrupts,

3 (1h 9m 7s):
They're, they're best literally bestowing the word of God and the, the meaning of life and the meaning of the universe in front of their loyal following. Right.

4 (1h 9m 17s):
This guy's got 31 Rolls Royces, by the way. Yeah. And, and they're just happy when he gets another one.

3 (1h 9m 23s):
He was funny though. He was the funny Oh yeah. Funny

4 (1h 9m 25s):
Dude. He was, he was, you know, I, I would've listened for a while. You know,

3 (1h 9m 30s):
You ever hear that thing, that famous thing that he said about democracy? You remember it is by people, but the people are retarded. So it is so you get this fucking

4 (1h 9m 44s):
Guru,

3 (1h 9m 45s):
You get this guru

4 (1h 9m 47s):
Tell

3 (1h 9m 47s):
Saying that everyone's retarded. Right. You gotta see this. This was the dude. This was the fucking dude. Because

7 (1h 9m 53s):
Democracy basically means government by the people of the people.

4 (1h 10m 14s):
And he works slower than I do of the people.

3 (1h 10m 17s):
He does. He does. But it's good. I'm

4 (1h 10m 20s):
Listening.

7 (1h 10m 20s):
People are retarded.

3 (1h 10m 23s):
Yes. They're

4 (1h 10m 24s):
Yes, they're

3 (1h 10m 25s):
No, he goes on even further. That is a small version of it. He continues on, he's the government of the ARD for the Oh really? Yeah. He goes into this whole thing and this is the guru that was running that town up there. That was the guy. And

4 (1h 10m 40s):
He was the guy with 31 Rolls Royce. Right? Yeah. He was

3 (1h 10m 42s):
Balling outta control. Yeah. He was

4 (1h 10m 44s):
Outta control going nuts.

3 (1h 10m 45s):
He probably would've pulled it off if it wasn't for Sheila. Yeah. Sheila was so ruthless. Right. She's terrified.

4 (1h 10m 51s):
She was the one that got the guns out. Right. She

3 (1h 10m 53s):
Was the one that poisoned the whole town.

4 (1h 10m 54s):
Oh, I didn't know the town. Oh, the, the city. Yeah. Not them. Yeah.

3 (1h 10m 58s):
No, they poisoned. They poisoned like a salad bar or something. Didn't they? I don, didn't she do something like that?

4 (1h 11m 3s):
Oh yeah. They blew something up.

3 (1h 11m 5s):
They did a bunch of shit. They brought in homeless people for votes. I mean they, they went wild. They went wild in the end. They brought in homeless people in buses so the homeless people would become part of their community and they'd have more votes. And then they took over the fucking town and then they're like, adios. Homeless fucks.

4 (1h 11m 22s):
Yeah. And

3 (1h 11m 22s):
They kicked the homeless people out

7 (1h 11m 25s):
Government by the retarded, the retard of the retard.

3 (1h 11m 46s):
I mean that dude believes what he's saying.

7 (1h 11m 48s):
Democracy cannot be,

4 (1h 11m 52s):
I believe what he's saying,

7 (1h 11m 58s):
The highest possibility man can attain.

3 (1h 12m 4s):
He just

4 (1h 12m 5s):
Blinked for the first time. I was asking if he hasn't blinked. Wow.

3 (1h 12m 10s):
Yeah, he's probably the real deal. He's probably the real deal. But he had Sheila behind him and she just got crazy and started killing folks

4 (1h 12m 18s):
In too many Rolls Royces to keep it out of the news. You know, you got, get a couple of 'em, man, you know, 31. But if you're

3 (1h 12m 25s):
The real deal, if you really are a super guru and you want 30 Rolls Royces, I think you can do it in that space. Yeah. In that space. In the Christian space. don Don't think so.

4 (1h 12m 34s):
They're doing it. They got, you know, Gulfstream

11 (1h 12m 36s):
Six fifties, you know, you, you can buy 30 Rolls

4 (1h 12m 38s):
Royces.

3 (1h 12m 39s):
I'm just saying it's very, it's harder to connect with the message cheaper.

4 (1h 12m 42s):
Right.

3 (1h 12m 42s):
There's something about that dude. The way he is willing to talk, like that guy, OSHA, his book is really brilliant. He, there's a, an audio version of one of his books that I got into. It's interesting, man. His thoughts are very interesting.

10 (1h 12m 57s):
93 cars.

3 (1h 12m 59s):
He had 93 cars. It's only 93. Ron.

4 (1h 13m 1s):
93. He only had

3 (1h 13m 2s):
93 cars. So he had a nice fleet. He

4 (1h 13m 5s):
Loved his Rolls Royces. He did. Yeah. But Right.

11 (1h 13m 8s):
You know, if he's the guy, you want him to have everything, you know, I know if you believe he is the guy. And

3 (1h 13m 13s):
You could be, this is what I believe. I think you can be both. I think you can be this crazy 93 Rolls Royce having fucking lunatic who lives in a castle that's made out of diamonds in the sky. Okay. That you got money from your followers. And also to be tuned into the real thing to re the real energy of the universe.

4 (1h 13m 34s):
I don't think you can,

3 (1h 13m 35s):
I think you can. I think you can

4 (1h 13m 37s):
Dance. I think that power corrupts absolutely

3 (1h 13m 39s):
For most people, for most people. But if you're a real super guru, like a hedonist super guru. Right. Because one of the things about a lot of those, like, like crazy super guru type characters, like there's always some sexual aspect to it. It's always some sexual freedom and sexual expressing and, and they fucking hook, line and sink or believe in shit.

4 (1h 13m 58s):
Right. Like that guy that owned that building that you almost bought for no reason.

3 (1h 14m 1s):
Exactly. Exactly.

4 (1h 14m 4s):
The

3 (1h 14m 4s):
Ron White recommendation. Ron White recommended that I buy a cult building and I listened to him. Yeah.

4 (1h 14m 10s):
See, see, it would've worked. It would've worked. It it would've worked. That was a cool building. Yeah. and it would've worked. You would've made it work. That's for Sureand. And we'd all supported it and it would've been fine. It

3 (1h 14m 20s):
Wouldn't have been as good though location wise wouldn't have been as good. This

4 (1h 14m 23s):
Turned, this is, this turned out to be heaven. That's perfect. So we can't second guess anything that went down before it or after it or whatever.

3 (1h 14m 31s):
I feel like it lined up in the exact correct order. Like the universe opened up all the doors in the exact correct order. And like, I feel like the failed experiment with that other place or the, you know, the frustration in having it not come together was a good catalyst. Like a lesson, a good lesson in like how like real estate deals can go and how, you know, all the issues with property.

4 (1h 14m 57s):
Right. How careful you need to be. Yeah.

3 (1h 14m 59s):
It's a lot of stuff going on when you're buying stuff. Right? Yeah. And sometimes you gotta experience a, a failed deal and go, okay, that didn't work. Maybe this, maybe this is

4 (1h 15m 8s):
Better. And you were kind of impetuous, so you needed something to slow you down a little bit because you were going, you were going pretty nuts with make, with decisions. I mean, I talked to you one day, you were thinking about moving to Austin and the next day you lived there. You had a house on the lake, you moved your studios. I'm like, God damn, this guy moves.

3 (1h 15m 26s):
I'm not, I'm not interested in half-assing things.

4 (1h 15m 28s):
No, no, no, no. If I have to do it, move right along with it.

3 (1h 15m 31s):
It's, that's what's the fun part about it is like a change. Like that is a big deal.

4 (1h 15m 36s):
Well if you, if really if you look at the, and I'm pretty emotional about the mothership, but if you look at it, it was, it was the only thing that could have got me where I am today. Nothing, no other vehicle would've worked because I wouldn't have been interested in it. I would've been interested in me being alone and, and isolating myself and all those things. But the mothership was that thing that was so delicious and so perfect for what I needed at that point in my life. I think that the universe used you just to get me back outta this fucking hole that I was in. You know?

4 (1h 16m 15s):
You know where I was at. Yeah. You know, I was in a shitty fucking place and I needed, I didn't know what to do. I didn't know where to go. I didn't, I didn't know what to do with my emotions. I didn't know what to do with my, you know, doubting everything about my talent and all this stuff and, you know, so nothing else would've got me where I am today. No other combination of things. There wouldn't have been an open mic night and Webster, wherever that I would've gone to and with any interest at all. And really started to fall back in love with the art of doing standup and be able to do all those reps. You know, that doesn't exist anywhere else. You know, that that's what happens at the mothership. That you can go in there and sharpen the fucking blade.

4 (1h 16m 58s):
You ought to see what I'm doing to these crowds on the road. I'm beating the fuck outta them. I'm having a blast. Except just, I still hate to travel. But you know, we're

3 (1h 17m 6s):
Real lucky. We're real lucky. And like I said, I feel like the universe opened up all the right doors at all the right time. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And, and put it all together in this perfect way. And we all benefit from having all of us here together for sure. It's 100% benefits. Your act, 100% benefits. Your joke writing and the amount of fun that you have in life

4 (1h 17m 28s):
And how hard we laugh in that green room and

3 (1h 17m 31s):
You know, that's what I'm saying, the amount of fun you have in life, it's the most fun.

4 (1h 17m 35s):
And the, and and the best thing about the Green Room is how restrictive it is. You know, that you just can't go in there. You know, you're just not, you gotta earn that spot in the tree house, you know? And so anytime you open the door, you'll see, you know, some of the best comics alive sitting there talking about standup comedy. Yeah. And, you know, writing jokes and laughing and having a good time. But, you know, that's our fucking little space man. and it is the greatest thing on earth.

3 (1h 18m 0s):
The one of the worst things that happens in green rooms, what Ron's talking about is like, you'll be in a green room and a bunch of agents will walk in and start talking. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Especially in LA it used to happen all the time. They all wanted to go in the green room. Yeah. So they'd go in the green room and I, I've done shows before, like at these big theaters and there's people, I don't even know who they are. They're all hanging around the green room. I'm like, okay. I don't even, who, who are you guys? Like it doesn't happen so much anymore, but in the past,

4 (1h 18m 28s):
Oh. When I've played big venues annoying out near California. Yeah. The guys I didn't even know from a PA and Yeah. You know, CAA or whoever the fuck I was with. Yeah. And then people from my office that I didn't even know, they were all back there in the green room get, you know, trying to get a little by trying to prove to me that they're earning some kind of fucking money I'm sending them. Yeah. Or whatever. But that doesn't happen at the, at the comedy mothership. It is just us talking about we really, nobody knows much more about the business of this than we do. You know, that collective group that gets

3 (1h 18m 59s):
We feed off each other. Yeah. Yeah. It's like we a hundred percent feed off each other.

4 (1h 19m 6s):
And this wasn't designed to be a commercial for the mothership, but it sounds like one.

3 (1h 19m 10s):
Yeah. But we're, we're, we're both super lucky. All of us are not, not just us in this room and all of us together, that we're all in on this together. 'cause that's what it is. It's like we, we got a spot where we can all fuck around. And we have a lot of other spots in Austin now because of that. And, and along with that Right. You

4 (1h 19m 26s):
Know, there's a,

3 (1h 19m 27s):
A lot

4 (1h 19m 27s):
Of spots basically that meant it makes the mothership of the a very proper name for that place, for that club. Yeah. Because everything else kind of feeds off of it, you know, of, of

3 (1h 19m 37s):
That was the, that was the idea. Well, there was a bunch of other names that I had for it, but that was the idea. What, what, what I liked about that one is that we all do travel and we're all stuck, you know, in this thing. If you're, if you're a standup and you, you know, you wanna go on the road, you gotta go places. But

4 (1h 19m 52s):
To have a place to go back to where you can keep your skills without traveling, that's what doesn't exist anywhere else.

3 (1h 19m 59s):
You know? Well, that's what made me realize what we were missing when we came here. When we first came here, we were at the Vulcan. It was great, but it was, it was a great place and love Nick and everybody that worked there, but it wasn't set up perfect. Right. Right. It was hard to get around. You had to go downstairs to get on stage. It was like, there was a lot of annoying shit about it that was like, kind of goofy the way it was set up. And it's a great room to perform in. Like, the acoustics are fun. It's,

4 (1h 20m 22s):
But it rattles, you know. But

3 (1h 20m 24s):
I was like, we but it, we need the setup to be correct. And if we can get the setup like completely correct, just do it Absolutely. The way a comic would want it to be done. Just do everything the way the comic make, make it everything. So it's the like, the fucking easiest ride ever for the comics. They come in, we go to back, Hey, up to the stairs. That's right. Yeah. It's just easy fun. Everybody's gonna have a good time. Let's go have fun. Let's have fun. And that's what we needed. 'cause we were on the road all the time. And when you're on the road all the time, it's like you are in these places. You're only gonna be there for a couple of nights. You're doing your standup with a couple friends you came with, and then you go back home and then you wait till you go somewhere else again. Do You don't have a home base Yeah. To touch in like, Ron White and I was Cincinnati.

3 (1h 21m 5s):
Right. You know, like those No, no, no. Those, those Tuesdays and Wednesdays are the shit man. They are, they're the shit.

4 (1h 21m 11s):
They are. and it, you know, and it was kinda like it was at at this store for a while. Yeah. You know, when we were all supporting it at the same time and you know, the crowds were the, you know, it was always packed. 'cause they knew they were gonna get a show. They couldn't get any other time for any price that, that show doesn't exist anywhere else. And the other night we did a show, and it was me and you and Shane Gillis and I, Jim Norton, who's, yeah. That guy makes me laugh harder than anybody. He's hilarious. And Theo Vaughn came in. Yeah. It was all in one night. Yeah. At, at the, at the comedy mothership. Crowd doesn't know. We don't even know, you know, you don't even know who's all gonna show up on the night. And, but there's always room.

4 (1h 21m 53s):
You know, if you're, you know, if you're one of the big Kamaya Mays, you know, room, just

3 (1h 21m 57s):
Always someone coming

4 (1h 21m 58s):
By room, there's, we'll always make room for you.

3 (1h 21m 60s):
And it's just fun. It's just a real fun environment. It's just a real fun place to fuck around, you know? And now that we have that, it makes it easier for us. It makes it easy to you, for you to do this tour you're doing makes it for all of us. It's

4 (1h 22m 14s):
Just a place to keep your chops. Yeah. You know, and, and it's all, and I don't care if you're doing short sets or long sets. You need to be doing sets. Yeah. Because it keeps that familiarity with you and that audience. and it keeps, it keeps that all secondary. Yeah. It's something that you don't even think about. It's what you do it every goddamn day and that's what you should do. And then it doesn't matter if you're on the stage for for 15 minutes or an hour and 15 minutes. It's just that you gotta get on stage and talk to those people and just so it's second nature to you. Yeah. And 'cause if you don't do it for a while, it's not, you think about it. Right. You know, we don't think about sets before we walk on stage at the mothership. You know, it's just what we do all the time. So, but you

3 (1h 22m 52s):
Remember what it was like when we took all those months off for Covid then You didn stand up again.

4 (1h 22m 55s):
Fuck. I was horrible. I couldn't believe how bad I was. and I didn't even know. That was the big question is for me was I didn't know what I was so good at that made it special to watch. You know, I didn't because I was just doing an impression of myself in that I didn't have that confidence in all those things that I, that come from knowing what's gonna happen when

3 (1h 23m 17s):
You walk on stage. I saw you first set back at the vault and you fucking killed. Fuck.

4 (1h 23m 21s):
It was awful. You

3 (1h 23m 22s):
Fucking killed. You're outta your mind, you're outta your mind. You got big laughs. I think it just didn't feel comfortable for you. I think you didn't feel like you were killing because it didn't feel comfortable because you just haven't done it in so long. I think that's all it's, but for the audience member, if

4 (1h 23m 38s):
You look at, at that set versus my Yeah, yeah, yeah. Listen, 15 minutes that I'm doing now, it's, it Well you were talking about it the other night. Yes. That, that timing and it, that all that stuff is back to sharp, you know, how I got here stuff, you know, and that's all growth that comes from fucking doing reps. You know, it's definitely a, it's, it's a gem that's for sure. And if you work out, you see the results and if you don't, you don't, you know,

3 (1h 24m 4s):
I think it's just like golf, it's just like everything. Yeah. Well

4 (1h 24m 7s):
It's something, something I understand and I love, you know, and so I, you know, appreciate And

3 (1h 24m 12s):
If you only played golf with idiots

4 (1h 24m 14s):
Right.

3 (1h 24m 14s):
You know, like you never fucking really learned to play golf.

4 (1h 24m 17s):
You'd just Yeah. And then you'd be going, I'm so great. You know, it's, it's better for you to hang out with guys that can hit the ball further than you. Yes. You know? That's fine. That's fine. Because you can still beat those guys. You know, if you're lucky if you're smart.

3 (1h 24m 30s):
Yeah. Well that'd be, there's always in groups of guys, there's always the one guy's the dominant golf player, right?

4 (1h 24m 35s):
Yeah. Yeah. And that's, that used to be me all the time. But now when I play it now I've got these friends that, you know, that are fucking pros

3 (1h 24m 44s):
Or used to be pro. Is that a, is that just a reps thing or is there a certain characteristic that some people have that makes 'em like really good at golf?

4 (1h 24m 51s):
I think that some people are, are born with a, with a innate ability for athletics, you know, and some people aren't. And you can, you can try to get to that place all as hard as you want to. Like John Daley, you know? Yeah. He's a gifted athlete, you know, and he would've, no matter what he had done, he would've been great at it. Yeah. But he chose to do it with golf and, and his situation at home was real fucked up, abusive father. Horrible shit. Just horrible shit. And I know a lot about him. I've spent a lot of nights drinking with him. And, but he had these hands, man, and this, this ability to turn his back to his target and just keep going. and it generated, literally no one had ever seen anybody do what John Dailey did when he first started hitting, when he first came on the scene.

4 (1h 25m 36s):
They, the other pros were going out to the driving ranges going watch this. And he's hitting the ball 75 yards past everybody and hitting the middle of the fairway with it. And they're like, and but he was so self-destructive that he, he, he, he couldn't, he he could manage it to some point. You know, I don't know. And John doesn't know either, I'm sure. But you know, he won two majors, which, you know, most people that play professional golfer never win one and or never win a tournament that most people didn't have a card to play on the PGA tour, never win on the PGA tour. So he didn't do earth shattering stuff like Tiger did as far as the numbers go. But you know, he, he just had that natural ability and, and, and his son is just like him, which is kind of a weird thing 'cause that father son thing doesn't mesh up.

4 (1h 26m 26s):
And then who knows if it ultimately will. But his son's got a pocket full of money bets with everybody there. He is about 16. No, he is in college now. So he's quite a player and he's got his dad's back swing and you know, it's

3 (1h 26m 39s):
Damn. So it's genetic.

4 (1h 26m 41s):
Well, some of least a piece of it at some of it's gotta be, you know? Yeah. And then you

3 (1h 26m 45s):
Man, I would imagine, yeah,

4 (1h 26m 46s):
There he is right

3 (1h 26m 47s):
There. I would imagine.

4 (1h 26m 48s):
And that's who I played golf with,

3 (1h 26m 49s):
With their fucking belts. Yeah.

4 (1h 26m 51s):
That they won the father tongue son tournament. They beat Tiger and his kid, bro.

3 (1h 26m 55s):
How great did John Dailey's pants? Yeah.

4 (1h 26m 57s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 26m 57s):
Three those pants. Those are so classic.

4 (1h 26m 60s):
Yep. And you can

3 (1h 27m 0s):
Little skulls all over 'em and

4 (1h 27m 3s):
Those green alligator shoes. He's awesome. He's one of a kind that's for sure. One of

3 (1h 27m 8s):
A kind, one of a kind one of a kind. How many diet cokes did you say he drinks a day?

4 (1h 27m 11s):
He, well he drinks, oh boy, he just drinks so much. But he drinks Diet Cokes and chocolate milk and he doesn't really eat. And then he drinks vodka by the galas, you know,

3 (1h 27m 24s):
Diet

4 (1h 27m 24s):
Coke and chocolate milk, chocolate milk if you go. 'cause we, the look at him, we, I've stayed in the same house with him before and he's also, oddly enough, he's a neat freak. He gets up in the morning and he'll make breakfast for everybody that's in the, you know, the golf fucking complex there like four, four rooms or whatever. He's up in the morning, vacuuming, shining stuff it up. It's not even his job to do it. And, but he's a neat freak and he loves to cook for people. And, and at night he'll sing songs and play guitar until you're so bored with it, you can't stand yourself. And, you know, but it's a hoot. It's a show, but in the refrigerator, gallons of milk and a chocolate, a Hershey's chocolate squirt bottle. He makes it up himself, you know, and, and then so

3 (1h 28m 7s):
He makes his own chocolate milk. He stirs it and then

4 (1h 28m 8s):
Diet Cokes and then, oh

3 (1h 28m 10s):
My god.

4 (1h 28m 10s):
Cigarettes, you know, one after another

3 (1h 28m 13s):
With that. Pull that back up, Jamie, with the, the statistics that you were showing the statistics, he was just showing about how many cigarettes and diet cokes he drank in one game of this. This says this is a daily diet. I don't know point Yeah. But that one image that you had on the other page, there was, you had, there it is John Daly smoke 21 1 cigarettes and drank 12 cans of coke and no water at a PGA tour event. John Dailey once smoked 21 cigarettes and drank 12 cans of coke at a tour event with no water. The controversial golfer is known among fans for a somewhat different style to, to today's fitness obsessed stars.

3 (1h 28m 53s):
So if he drank 12 Coca-Colas though Yeah. You do have to think like that is a lot of energy and a lot of sugar. Yeah.

4 (1h 28m 59s):
And this, and this guy doesn't practice ever at golf. He doesn't really, no. He'll go out there and he'll hit sand wedges and he'll hit maybe four of them and, and go straight to the tee box. Whether he is playing a professional tour event or playing with a he's, and he tells me, just hit some sand wedge. You gotta hit that side. If you can hit that solid, you can hit 'em all solid. Just do that. There's no sense working your way through a bag and spending all goddamn day, you know, just because that you're trying to get loose. Not better. We're playing. Right. You don't have time to get better. You just got time to get loose, get loose with one club. So, but it, it, he, but that's just how much ability he's got.

4 (1h 29m 39s):
Most of these guys, you know, they, they take this shit serious every goddamn day of their life. Hours and hours and hours a day go into nothing but preparing. He spends no time at all. And, and he, he and he doesn't win very much, but, you know, he makes a lot of noise and he, he lives life the way he wants to and he's so unapologetic and you

3 (1h 29m 60s):
Know, and he is kind of a hero because of

4 (1h 30m 1s):
It. He is, yeah. Yeah. He, he is totally a hero and he should be. He, he is a living legend of, of athletic fucking superiority. And there he is, Hooters, there's his endorsement right there. He loves Hooters.

3 (1h 30m 15s):
That's hilarious.

4 (1h 30m 17s):
Yeah. After years and years, I'd go to the masters and I'd park my bus right next to his bus at the Hooters in in hilarious. And, and go down to watch the game. And, and he would make a fortune because people go to that tournament to see golf. Right. And, but those golf, those guys aren't available. You know, they don't come, they don't stick around signing autographs and do shit like that. John does. So he's got a merch tent set up at the Hooters and he'll do $400,000 worth of business in a week. Geez. Just sitting there signing stuff, flags whatever, taking pictures. He hustles that parking lot and does it every year. He is always out there. He'll, you know, he's nice anyway and he likes fans and he'll talk to you about anything, anybody.

4 (1h 31m 3s):
Wow. And you know, if he's in a good mood, if he's in a shitty mood, maybe not, but he still gets it, you know, and because he didn't, he gambles a lot, so he never has, don don't think he ever had a big surplus of money. He had some big deals from Callaway and, but I think he, you know, he's playing slot machines a thousand bucks a pull all the time. And so he's always had the hustle on the side, you know, so, but he, but he gets it done, you know, now he's got a vodka drink kinda like the Arnold Palmer, except it's got booze in it. It's called the John Daley selling shit out of it. So

3 (1h 31m 35s):
Yeah. What is the, John Daley, what's the mixture? Arnold Palmer is lemonade and iced tea. Right. I think then you had some vodka. Yeah, I would imagine. Is that what it's John Daley? Yeah,

4 (1h 31m 42s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Vodka.

3 (1h 31m 45s):
Fuck yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 31m 46s):
Him and, you know, I and I quit drinking, you know, that about three years ago. And, and, but, and Kid Rock hangs out there all the time and they're really good buddies. And he plays golf too. It's just not a great golf course either. It's just as one we all go to and you know, it's got good greens and we have fun time out there and they'll be banging on the door of my bus. We're going to the teddy bar come going. I'm like, dude, what, what part of if I don't drink anymore, do you not understand I'm no, I'm not going to the teddy bar with you and Kid Rock and what you got Jack with Strippers till Dawn and

3 (1h 32m 22s):
Hilarious.

4 (1h 32m 23s):
So now they don't talk to me much. And they,

3 (1h 32m 26s):
Those fucking guys when they sober up, the party's all gone. Right?

4 (1h 32m 30s):
That's right. Yeah. I read something the other day that said, if you quit drinking, that doesn't auto automatically make you no fun. That's a separate decision you have to make.

3 (1h 32m 41s):
That's very well put. Yeah. Right. Very well put. I know a lot of comics that stopped drinking. Like Dave Atel, I think is the best example of a guy who stopped drinking and just got way better. Like, he was always hilarious. He was always an amazing comic. He's always been fun, but I think it was just taking a toll on his body. Yeah. He, and then when he quit, it's like all of a sudden he had energy again and he's writing a shit ton of great material. I think he's at like his highest level ever now. And he hasn't drank in a long time. Yeah. Long just keeps getting better. Yeah.

4 (1h 33m 14s):
Years and years. And, but you know, he was outta control though. I mean he was

3 (1h 33m 20s):
For a little bit. Yeah. Well he had that show

4 (1h 33m 23s):
Insomniacs, right? Yeah, that was true. Yeah. I mean that's what he would do every night. I worked with him. I, I ended up doing a bunch of, I went to the Montreal Comedy Festival and he and I, we didn't know each other and we were doing a bunch of shows at the, at the Dirty show or whatever it was.

3 (1h 33m 37s):
Oh yeah,

4 (1h 33m 37s):
Yeah. And there's like 12 shows in a week. And so we met, that's back when he drank and I drank and, and so we were fast friends and I thought he was funny as fuck. I, you know, I had never seen any of it. and I just fucking loved to tell and he's so much fun to hang out

3 (1h 33m 52s):
With. He's one of the best of

4 (1h 33m 53s):
All time. But he would come through town and, and boy, after the show he's gone, you know, he goes into a dark nother world of, you know, whatever's going on down there. He finds it and Yeah. You know, so, but he didn't do anything. I mean he quit all, he quit everything. He got sober when, when Yeah. When people go. I heard you quit getting fucked up. I'm like, yeah, you heard it wrong. You know, you heard it,

3 (1h 34m 15s):
You just quit drinking.

4 (1h 34m 16s):
There's, there's more than one way to skin a cat is the way I, the way I look

3 (1h 34m 19s):
At it. I think the way you're skinning it right now is the best way. Fuck

4 (1h 34m 22s):
Yeah. I think so.

3 (1h 34m 22s):
It's the best way. It makes for the most fun. don.

4 (1h 34m 24s):
Don't, you know, I, i I, I feel pretty good about all the decisions I made that got me to where I'm right this minute. You know, as far as liquor goes, I didn't, you know,

3 (1h 34m 34s):
It makes for the most fun. The situation we're in right now is makes for the most fun if they would just hurry up and decriminalize mushrooms and things along those lines.

4 (1h 34m 45s):
Yeah. Because then we'd start doing mushrooms. Yes. But as long as they're against the law, we don't do 'em. Exactly. We're against it.

3 (1h 34m 50s):
That's what I'm saying.

4 (1h 34m 51s):
We put a, we put a stop to it. We're, in fact, we're part of the mechanism. Imagine

3 (1h 34m 55s):
If it's the only thing that can really get us out of this, but we're all so dismissive of it. It sounds like loony tunes. Right. But if you could give mushrooms to every living human being on this planet all in one day, right. We could sort a lot of shit out.

4 (1h 35m 9s):
That's, that's what Hicks said. It was our accelerator pad to our evolution. Yeah. You know. Well,

3 (1h 35m 14s):
He was a big Terrence McKenna fan, and he quoted Terrence McKenna in his act. And Terrence McKenna was the guy who came up with that theory that the reason why human beings evolved is from mushrooms. Oh, okay. It's called the stoned. A theory. It's a crazy theory. What is feral scientists recommending easing restrictions on marijuana? Oh, I did see that. Yeah. They wanna make it schedule three. So it has some medicinal uses.

4 (1h 35m 38s):
Shrooms or weed?

3 (1h 35m 40s):
Weed first. That's just weed. That's weed first. Oh, it'll, they're never gonna give it to y'all at once. It's just too revolutionary.

4 (1h 35m 45s):
Well, Texas, you know, we, we still don't even have mercy weed. You know, you can't,

3 (1h 35m 50s):
You cant give weed if you have cancer. If you're dying of cancer. don

4 (1h 35m 52s):
Don't think so. Not in Texas.

3 (1h 35m 53s):
There's no medical weed in Texas at all. They

5 (1h 35m 55s):
Have a very, it's like 0.3% you could get if you have, like, if you're dying next week or something.

4 (1h 35m 60s):
Right. Which is kinda weird because, you know, not that I, you know, I mean you would buy the edibles that you can buy or THC edibles and, and they, they, but they got it that that law passed because they didn't understand the law. Because they were going by weight of something and, but they didn't realize that they're saying, okay, these gummies are 14%. Yeah. You know, so they're trying to fight it now, but right now it's legal to buy that. But, and then something that's just light pot, like one milligram or whatever off, you know, they sell that

3 (1h 36m 29s):
Delta

4 (1h 36m 30s):
Nine. Delta nine. Yeah. I don't smoke it because, you know, it's classified as marijuana and I would never do anything. and I thought good for you. The illegal. Yeah.

3 (1h 36m 38s):
Well, I witnessed Brian Simpson take a few of those gummies. Yeah.

4 (1h 36m 41s):
And

3 (1h 36m 42s):
Right. And they were supposed to be very mild and he was very upset at how fucked up he was.

4 (1h 36m 47s):
He

3 (1h 36m 47s):
Was very upset. He was like, this is outrageous.

4 (1h 36m 49s):
He was, he was shocked. Does that he couldn't believe was

3 (1h 36m 52s):
Going smell salts. Wake anybody up out of that. I've never tried. Ooh, that's a good question. That's a solid question, Jamie. What green question? He said it smelling salts. Wake someone up out of like a weed stu

4 (1h 37m 2s):
Of stupor. Yeah, it will. Because I've used those ones that are on the table in the green room to Yeah. You ever get too stoned to do a set and then you just pick up one of those salts and just jerk you right out of it for a minute.

3 (1h 37m 13s):
You probably, you've only taken the ones that we have at the, the mothership then

4 (1h 37m 17s):
The Yeah.

3 (1h 37m 18s):
Right. The the what? You've never had the smelling salt here?

4 (1h 37m 21s):
No.

3 (1h 37m 22s):
Oh, this is significantly stronger here

4 (1h 37m 24s):
At the

3 (1h 37m 25s):
Right. The stuff that we have here in the studio versus the stuff that we have in the green room. The stuff we have in the green room is kind of old. So when you open it, you really gotta get your nose in there. Oh, that feels really dig in. This motherfucker will knock your dick into the dirt. This is

4 (1h 37m 39s):
What makes you think I want my,

3 (1h 37m 40s):
No, I wouldn't say you do what

4 (1h 37m 42s):
I mean. Knocked into the dirt.

3 (1h 37m 43s):
It's, it's worth experiencing. All right. 'cause it's so potent. Well, it's shocking.

4 (1h 37m 47s):
Wait a minute. Lemme get ready. We get a

3 (1h 37m 49s):
Fresh one or Yeah. You got any freshies? There's still

5 (1h 37m 51s):
Four, I think

3 (1h 37m 52s):
Fresh ones here. Well, let me see how bad, what's, do we have these in any chronological order? I

5 (1h 37m 56s):
Don I

3 (1h 37m 57s):
Don. All right, let me grab one. I'll see what we got.

5 (1h 37m 60s):
I'd say probably that one. Maybe I prob I'm sure that's definitely gonna do the job. Alright,

3 (1h 38m 6s):
We'll see what's up.

4 (1h 38m 8s):
He's got frogs in here. Let's

3 (1h 38m 10s):
See what's up. Here we go.

5 (1h 38m 13s):
Y'all know which one's stronger right away. Oh, that's probably pretty good then. That works. Wow. Wow.

3 (1h 38m 24s):
This one's very legit.

4 (1h 38m 25s):
Okay. Yeah. I'm not gonna do it. No, no,

3 (1h 38m 27s):
No, no, no. You need to,

4 (1h 38m 28s):
You need to I know don don't want whatever it caused you to look like. You just look like you're, I feel great about to. I feel great. Now gimme lemme All right. Fuck. Let right now I feel great thing. Whew.

3 (1h 38m 41s):
I don't know if that would Yeah, I think it would help. That's what I'm talking about.

4 (1h 38m 44s):
Hey Don You. don have any of this at the club

3 (1h 38m 46s):
I'm talking about? Oh,

4 (1h 38m 48s):
That's God.

3 (1h 38m 49s):
That's what talking about. I don't like when people talk shit about how easy smelling salts are. Oh. Like you've never had real smelling salts.

4 (1h 38m 58s):
I've never been this awake in my

3 (1h 38m 59s):
Life. That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm talking about.

4 (1h 39m 2s):
Oh man. I'm gonna do one up on the other side. Shout

3 (1h 39m 4s):
Out to that dude. Juju fu, right? Am I saying it right? Yep. Shout out to him for creating the greatest smelling salt in the history of the world. Did you go in for a second? Yeah. Yeah. Oh my God. You fucking animal. You only

5 (1h 39m 14s):
Got it in one side. He, he's

3 (1h 39m 15s):
Animal.

4 (1h 39m 16s):
He only went up one side. If I had to get that under the, I

3 (1h 39m 18s):
Thought he was gonna leave the show,

4 (1h 39m 19s):
Man. I were was

3 (1h 39m 21s):
I was worried you were gonna get mad and leave

4 (1h 39m 23s):
The show. That was like meth.

3 (1h 39m 24s):
That's very potent.

4 (1h 39m 25s):
That's what it feels like going down. Well

3 (1h 39m 28s):
This guy who created this is like this crazy power lifter dude. But

4 (1h 39m 31s):
There's no after effect of it, is there?

3 (1h 39m 34s):
No, I don't think you should do it too often.

4 (1h 39m 37s):
I just did it once every 10 seconds.

3 (1h 39m 40s):
It's not making me any smarter.

4 (1h 39m 41s):
Yeah, okay. Alright. Well don don't have any, don don't have anywhere to go but fucking up.

3 (1h 39m 47s):
All of us have nowhere to go but up. That's what AI's all about. But I think it's probably not good to, that's that guy. He created it. Look at the body on that son of a bitch. Look at the crazy shit he can do. Oh, that looks good. Full splits in between chairs while holding up. It looks

4 (1h 40m 2s):
Like Josh Blue. Yeah. No, not in that picture.

3 (1h 40m 6s):
I mean dude's a crazy athlete like that is, that is absolutely ridiculous strength to be able to do that. And that's preposterous. So, so they, a lot of those powerlifter dudes, they take a big blast to this ship before they lift.

4 (1h 40m 21s):
Okay. I, I'll say I wanna look like that, but I'm 67, right? Yeah. How many hours a day would I have to dedicate of my life?

3 (1h 40m 32s):
No bullshit

4 (1h 40m 33s):
I mean Of course. I could never get to that.

3 (1h 40m 35s):
No, you couldn't get to that Of course, but no bullshit. You could change your entire body with weightlifting and steroids in a year. We would get you to a Russian scientist and they'd hook you up with the latest fucking greatest top shelf. Like if we got a project like, did you ever see that documentary Icarus? It's a great Icarus.

4 (1h 40m 60s):
Icarus. Yeah, I think so.

3 (1h 41m 1s):
Yeah. It's Brian Fogels, it's his right. Brian Fogels. Why did I freeze there for minute? Brian, who also did the dissident, which is another amazing documentary. But Brian did this race, he did it completely clean and then he was gonna get this Russian doping guy to tell him what to take. And then he was gonna do the same race the next year juiced up and he was doing it for a documentary to show what the difference is. Alright. He's, he's not competitive like he could win. Right. He's a very good cyclist though. So in the middle of this process of going through this thing with this Russian guy, right, it comes out that the Russians cheated in the Sochi Olympics.

3 (1h 41m 41s):
And so when they cheated in the Olympics, they used piss that was like fake piss. They like smuggled pistol a hole in the wall. And this guy was a part of the whole program and he's in this documentary and these were, while this is all happening, these

4 (1h 41m 55s):
Are cyclists?

3 (1h 41m 57s):
No, he's a cyclist. He gets doped up for this documentary. Oh, okay. This is what he's doing. And so in getting doped up with steroids and EPO, he's talking to this guy who's the head of this Russian anti-doping agency who's really just, they're just Russian doping. So they just, everyone's doped. Right? And this guy tells him everything. He spills the beans on the whole program and now the guy's in like the fucking witness protection plan. They've got him like shuttle all around the country to keep him alive. They want Russian wants him dead. This fucking guy spilled the, they, they juiced the whole Olympic team. And this guy, I guess they did, this guy Brian got very lucky and caught it in the middle of it happening. So it was just dumb luck that the Russians get busted for, for doping while he's doing a documentary on doping with the guy who did the fucking doping.

4 (1h 42m 45s):
And he didn't have anything to do with the them getting exposed?

3 (1h 42m 49s):
No, not at all. It was, what happened was they used these jars that were supposed to be impregnable, right? So there's these jars you would urinate into the jar, and then once they had your sample, it would be sealed in a way that no one could open. Well they found these micro scratches that are all over the inside of these supposedly sealed jars that led them to believe that someone had figured out a way to hack into that and open these things. And they realized that the Russians had figured out a way with a new piece of equipment. They engineered, they got their own bottles and they got a a, they engineered a tool that would allow them to open it up and then they would put it back on. So they would go and they would take the piss out and they would bring it in with a new bottle. And the new bottle was filled with clean piss.

3 (1h 43m 30s):
And so there's literally, they had a hole in the wall, literally had a hole in the wall where they were swapping out the clean piss for the dirty piss. Look at this. The official urine sample room hole in storage, storage

4 (1h 43m 42s):
Space,

3 (1h 43m 42s):
Storage space. And in the storage space is where they had all the clean urine and they got busted while this guy was doing it. So if we got that guy, that Russian group right. To turn you into a fucking

4 (1h 43m 53s):
Stud. Yeah.

3 (1h 43m 53s):
Just we need about 16 months. We need about 16 months. But

4 (1h 43m 56s):
Do we really need a Ron White that's all amped up on that?

3 (1h 43m 59s):
We don't that We don't need that. No. Yeah, we don't need that. But if you ever wanna go that way, no, You don, you don't need that. But just like, you know, You don't need to play golf. Yeah.

4 (1h 44m 8s):
Well I'm the one that asked the question, right?

3 (1h 44m 10s):
No, no, no. It's a fair question. It's like, how long would it take I mean you're not obese. You're fit because you walk around a lot, you're doing a lot of golf. You, you're playing a sport all the time. So you're active.

4 (1h 44m 22s):
I stretch for that, for that game. So I'm pretty, I'm pretty limber for a, you know, that 67-year-old,

3 (1h 44m 28s):
That game looks like it would really benefit from like rotational work. Yeah.

4 (1h 44m 33s):
Do

3 (1h 44m 34s):
You do like a, you ever do with a trainer or whether you do like cables

4 (1h 44m 37s):
Stuff? No, I, you know what I, everything I do in my golf swing right now, I do to avoid two tears I've got in my shoulders. And, but for the most part, it doesn't hurt to, to make that as long. 'cause everything stays connected. It's be, it's when I do like this, that, that, that they really hurt.

3 (1h 44m 52s):
Have you ever done stem cells? Yeah.

4 (1h 44m 54s):
Well, with the same guys that, with the waist to Well, folks. Yeah. And, and it's better than it was because I, before I couldn't do that at all. And now I can. And that, and it doesn't, it doesn't really hurt that bad. But before, if I got it to there and just pushed it back a little bit, it not only hurt, it hurt when I quit doing it and still it, you know, it's not, it's not exactly right, but

3 (1h 45m 16s):
I'm there. It's not exactly right. Yeah. I I have a plan that can help you tremendously that I use for my shoulders. I have no affiliation with this company. It's called Crossover Symmetry. I bought it, I bought it online. I think I bought it on Amazon. I had, I had one at home and one at the gym. It's a bunch of different chords. They attach to posts and they have these cables and some of 'em are like 10 pounds, some of 'em are 15 pounds, some are 25 pounds. And they give you a plaque. And the plaque has a series of different exercises for your shoulders. All for shoulder strength. It makes a giant difference. A giant difference. So you use these cables and it's not hard work. You're not like lifting heavy weight or anything like this. This is like rehabilitation and strength work.

3 (1h 45m 57s):
Correct. So you're on the last ones, you are getting like a good pump, but it's very controlled. It's very controllable. And in the process you're strengthening your shoulders. You're strengthening all the things that are not that strong, which is why you're probably getting injured in the first place. Unless it's some sort of a catastrophic situation. For the most part, people get injured because there's shoulders just aren't in good condition.

4 (1h 46m 21s):
No, I fell when I was young, off a cliff into a pool. It was 78 feet Hamilton's pool right over here in Austin, Texas. and I landed not like you should land. Okay. So it was catastrophic and it, it ripped everything. Sprained both wrists and, and my shoulders. But I never had it looked at. It was just bad for a long time. Then I had it just a few years ago in Beverly Hills. I had 'em do a CAT scan or whatever the fuck are M

3 (1h 46m 46s):
Mri. Probably mri. What'd they say?

4 (1h 46m 47s):
They said they got tears in both of them there. That's where I fell right here. Jesus. It was 78 feet. Oh my God. and it was, I was standing at the top where people were jumping off and I was really drunk and Oh no. and I didn't really jump off. I kind of tripped and stumbled and then just went, oh well I'm going with it. And fell off. Oh shit. And, and I just landed like, I was sitting down with my arms kind of back and it was just a, oh God,

3 (1h 47m 10s):
How deep is the

4 (1h 47m 10s):
Water? Well, it turned out I wasn't very deep into it. It's a pretty deep pool, but I don't even know. But I was this far underwater 'cause that's how flat I landed. I didn't even go underwater. Oh. And so,

3 (1h 47m 22s):
Oh no, that must have sucked.

4 (1h 47m 24s):
I went, knocked the breath out of me. And people were like, are you okay? And I'm like, which they, I, they took that to me and I'm fine. Yeah. Don't do a thing.

3 (1h 47m 33s):
Even if you have damage to your shoulders, that shoulder strengthening program will help you if you, it'll help you re retain range of motion because you're doing a kind of slowly and if you just stay persistent with it and consistent and just do it every day. And if you're doing it every day, you're not even doing it like that hard. It's not like a thing where you're like killing yourself, but you're doing like eyes wise and tees with like little dumbbells. Do things like that and do just do like easy things that strengthen your shoulder. You'd be amazed at how much more shoulder mobility and strength you'd have if you just strengthen all the connective stuff. Yeah,

4 (1h 48m 9s):
I'm sure. Yeah. I'm sure that doing anything would be more than I'm doing now, which is absolutely nothing. Yeah.

3 (1h 48m 16s):
Get outta fucking trainer, Ron. Get some,

4 (1h 48m 18s):
You know what I tried to get, I used to have

3 (1h 48m 21s):
Sassy young lady that's gonna crack you into shape.

4 (1h 48m 23s):
I, I used to have my yoga instructor would come over to my house every day or five days a week. And she was beautiful and smart and funny and she was great. and I would, it was basically a yoga nap. It was so easy breathing and then, you know, with smells and she was all mystical and shit. Oh right. and

3 (1h 48m 40s):
I like

4 (1h 48m 40s):
It. And, but my girlfriend was like, eh. Yeah. Yeah. I think you good

3 (1h 48m 46s):
Calling her part. Right,

4 (1h 48m 47s):
Right. Yeah. She was all over me. She's never wrong. She's got this intuition and she's never been wrong. Yeah, but

3 (1h 48m 53s):
You don't want that around your man. That's them yoga freaks. Yeah. They're a little bit more in tune to sexuality in a room. It's 94 degrees and they're all sweating on top of each other. Yeah.

4 (1h 49m 5s):
Yeah. It, it has a lasting impression.

3 (1h 49m 7s):
Sticking their crosses up in the air. I mean everybody's a little bit more free after a yoga class.

4 (1h 49m 12s):
But it was still good for me. It was a good way to start the day. Oh no,

3 (1h 49m 16s):
Just kidding. That's a great way to start that. I used to love doing it that way. When I lived in California, I used to do the Akram style. They changed the name after he got busted a bunch of times. but it was, it was Bikram's when I first started and it was that series of poses, which I, I think he just popularized. I don't, I don't believe any of them. I don don't even know if he put them in that order, if they were already in that order that people do 'em. But whatever it is that order, forget what you think about him as gross as that guy is that that guy is, he's very funny.

4 (1h 49m 48s):
He, he wasn't, he wasn't all that gross.

3 (1h 49m 50s):
$1 million for one drop of my sperm. You ever see him say that? Yeah. Yeah. You ever see him say that? Yeah. Yeah. A million dollars for, eh, I earned that I mean he's a a psychopath. Yeah. Wild man. But that guy, that's

4 (1h 50m 5s):
Why you really can't start fucking your followers. Yeah. Because it's just gonna, he seemed to be, even though it seems like a good idea at the time, but Yeah, he was getting a lot of, he's

3 (1h 50m 15s):
A cult leader. I mean. I mean, I think it's just like any other cult even though it does provide the benefit of the yoga. So the thing is like, whatever it is like is you take him outta the equation. 'cause it's not, they're not his exercises and I don don't think they're his order. Can you find out if that's the true, if you put it in that order, if he invented the order. But whatever it is, if you just follow those exercises in that order, it's awesome. And you do it every day and there's no variation. I love variation in your yoga class. I love to be able to go into a yoga class. They're doing different stuff. It's fun. But I also love going to this class where it's a 90 minute class and there's a specific number of movements and you know what they are. 'cause you've done this over and over and over and over again.

3 (1h 50m 56s):
Right. It's a fucking challenge. And you're all in there gutting it out together. Like that's a real human struggle. I know it sounds

4 (1h 51m 4s):
Ridiculous. My experie my experience was nothing like that. This was Kai. I'm on a a little thing stretching my back while I'm laying there breathing in some incense. That's

3 (1h 51m 14s):
Good too

4 (1h 51m 14s):
Though. And, but, and yeah. Doing some breath work. Listen,

3 (1h 51m 17s):
That's good too.

4 (1h 51m 18s):
And just breathing and Yeah. No grunting

3 (1h 51m 22s):
Well with the, the 90 minute one. You gotta be hydrated. You gotta be prepared for that. You gotta get some electrolytes in your system. Yeah.

4 (1h 51m 28s):
I went to a hot yoga one time and, and I literally threw up in the parking lot. Yeah. I, I was in there. It made me sick and I'd eaten, you know, whatever. I guess you shouldn't eat. and

3 (1h 51m 36s):
I think they do it at 1 0 4. I think it's 104 degrees. Amiga also falls a sequence of 26 postures. Students improve flexibility and circulation through this sequence with the high temperatures. Allow them to enter each pose more posture, more easily. The poses were chosen from Chd Hurry from classic ha poses designed to systematically move fresh oxygenated blood to a hundred percent of your body to each organ and fiber. So, so it was him, he came up with this sequence.

4 (1h 52m 6s):
I I think he hacked it, right? I think, I think he hacked it. I'm not finding

3 (1h 52m 10s):
Anything that says he didn

4 (1h 52m 10s):
Because he made a bunch of claims about winning yoga tournaments in this country. And they're like, we don't have yoga tournaments in this country. So it's

3 (1h 52m 18s):
A yoga ate they meet in the woods. The yoga to death. Okay. H the yoga studio practice different types of yoga. Most studios try to keep their hot yoga classes anywhere from a balmy 75 degrees to a steamy 95 degrees. The elevated temperature help. I think they do. 1 0 4. Yeah. Okay. Let's just explain. This place here goes, since we practice Beacon Yoga, our goal is to replicate the environment found in southern India. Our yoga teacher set the thermostats from 103 to 108 degrees. Let's go Now that's hot yoga. That's

4 (1h 52m 46s):
What Tony does, right? He does that every week. Yeah. So Pink Floyd music. Yeah,

3 (1h 52m 50s):
They have, yeah. That's, he says it's a really good class, but he loves doing that hot yoga. It keeps Tony normal. It helps him with his little evil brain. Yeah. His

4 (1h 52m 59s):
Evil brain.

3 (1h 52m 60s):
He needs a touch of the divine. Yeah.

4 (1h 53m 2s):
He needs to

3 (1h 53m 2s):
Be connected

4 (1h 53m 3s):
Little. I love him to death.

3 (1h 53m 4s):
Oh, he's the best.

4 (1h 53m 6s):
He sold out the fucking Madison Square Garden. So true. Three hours,

3 (1h 53m 10s):
Two Madison Square gardens. They're killing the game. They deserve everything they're getting.

4 (1h 53m 15s):
It's a fantastic show. You know what? And that just, when he came up with that idea, that didn't sound like a good idea to anybody. I don't think you know, that We're gonna get guys that suck for sure. And they're gonna do a minute and we're gonna make fun of 'em or whatever. Try to help 'em or, you know, but, but it's such an engaging, amazingly great idea. And

3 (1h 53m 35s):
Well, you know what it is, it's an idea that was developed entirely by Tony and Red Band together over years. So Tony comes up with the idea, he partners together with Red band. They figure out how to do this slowly over years. So they're doing it in the belly room of the comedy store in front of like 50 fucking people. There's no one there in the beginning. They're doing from that to selling out Madison Square Garden in three hours in like 10 years. Right.

4 (1h 54m 3s):
Which

3 (1h 54m 4s):
Is, but

4 (1h 54m 4s):
Yeah, you can question it all you want to. But

3 (1h 54m 7s):
If you leave a great comic alone and let him come up with his own thing. Right. And then figure out, no one's better at hosting a show than that guy.

4 (1h 54m 15s):
Oh, nobody. He's the best because, you know, he, because he's into wrestling so everything he announces it's hard to follow the fucking credits that he gives you when he brings you on stage in that thing. You know, if you're one of his regulars. Yeah. You know, you're gonna think this guy sold out three nights at fucking Madison Square Garden. Yeah. You gotta go follow that intro. Right. But you know, yeah. Nobody could do it and nobody else could do it but him.

3 (1h 54m 38s):
He's so quick. He's so quick with like roast lines. Like when him and David Lucas go at it, I swear I don't think I ever laugh harder in life when him and David, there's, there's some videos of him and David Lucas going at it where I'm red like a grape and I can't breathe. 'cause I haven't, I haven't taken in a breath in 30 seconds. I'm just laughing. I'm just dying. They're so good at going back and forth with each other. They're so good. There's a shit ton of videos. We don't have to play any of them, but there's, if people are interested, there's a shit ton of videos online of Tony and David Lucas. They're like, I've been telling these fucking dudes since the beginning of time. Not like Tony needs anything else now. Right. But if you wanted to do another podcast, the podcast is him and David Lucas just talking shit and reading the news.

3 (1h 55m 24s):
I'm like, you two get together and just talk shit about the news and start ragging on each other. It would be immensely popular. Right. Immensely popular. Those two dudes have magic together. There's something about those two characters when they get together and start talking shit to each other. And they're both laughing when they get each other. There's no hard feelings at all.

4 (1h 55m 42s):
Right. None. None at all. Not at all.

3 (1h 55m 44s):
When Tony gets David hard, David is the hardest laugher in the room. He's laughing harder than anybody and he's enjoying it. He doesn't feel bad at all. Not even a smidgen. And neither does Tony. When Tony, when David gets Tony and Tony goes, you son of a bitch. Yeah,

4 (1h 56m 0s):
You son of a bitch. You got me this son of a bitch. He starts talking about his bald spots.

3 (1h 56m 7s):
He son

4 (1h 56m 7s):
Of a bitch. Son of a bitch.

3 (1h 56m 9s):
He just would, it's, they have so much fun. It's amazing because it's just such a well-oiled machine. It's just been running so smooth for so long. And then the new year shows just took him to a, to totally different level. You know, having Jelly Roll come out there and sing to open up the show shit. What the fuck man? Yeah. What the fuck?

4 (1h 56m 28s):
Everybody wants to participate, you know?

3 (1h 56m 30s):
Oh my God. It's so special. It's fucking awesome. And it's, I tell everybody it's the cornerstone of standup comedy in Austin. It's the cornerstone because it's a place where people can get their first time ever on stage. And you could do it in front of a million fucking people.

4 (1h 56m 46s):
Yeah. I don't know. I, I was pretty nervous and it was like, like 85 people and Yeah.

3 (1h 56m 53s):
But it, it's okay. Like, do you want to do this or not? Right.

4 (1h 56m 56s):
You know what, see that's and I not you,

3 (1h 56m 58s):
But it, it's, but

4 (1h 56m 59s):
You know what I'm saying, it's the most amazing thing

3 (1h 57m 0s):
People coming up

4 (1h 57m 1s):
Because it, it does send a net out there to find talented people that they might not have seen that avenue to get to where we are another way. You know, but they're fans of that. They're like, I could do that. And then they Yeah. Do what it takes to get in it.

3 (1h 57m 16s):
And also it encourages the spread of other rooms around town. You've got enough talent that they get together and then a guy says, Hey, I have a room. Do you guys wanna book a room? Do you want, and then you always get that from the more industrious of the comics. They'll like figure, yeah. Oh we got a bar over here. Oh yeah. Tuesday night comedy night. And so the amount of work that folks can get around here is crazy right

4 (1h 57m 40s):
Now. You know what I used to do? I used to go to hotels that, that had a, a restaurant in them and I'd have set up a comedy competition where you won $25 and a meal for two people. And then I would only invite comics. I knew I could beat because I wanted that money. I needed that 25 bucks and that free dinner for two. Me and Lori Marshall's mom would go down there just happy as we could be eating our free food. I won another one, you know. Ah, that's hilarious. John McDonald. Well, yeah. I couldn't get all of'em.

3 (1h 58m 11s):
That's smart. Oh yeah. What a great way to

4 (1h 58m 14s):
Little stage time.

3 (1h 58m 15s):
Nice. That's a good scam.

4 (1h 58m 17s):
Free food. That's

3 (1h 58m 18s):
A solid scam. Yeah. Yeah. When I lived in Boston, we were real lucky. There were so many road gigs. There were so many gigs you could do on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. You could almost work seven days a week if you knew enough booking agents and you were willing to drive. Right. You had a reliable car. You go to New Hampshire one night, next night you're in Bill Ricka. Next night you're in Rhode Island. Like you're moving around.

4 (1h 58m 39s):
Well, you know what I did was, which was pretty smart and I never accused myself of being smart very often. But, but I noticed that that really, you're a master of ceremonies. You're not the opening act. You know, the, your biggest job as the opener was to be the mc. Yeah. You know, and so if you did a written, I noticed everybody was doing a really shitty job. They had a crinkled up notes in their pocket next week at the thing. Yeah. And I was like, and I, I'm like, I'm gonna get good at that, you know, and my act too. But I'm gonna do a really good, I'm gonna study the notes. I'm gonna know 'em, I'm gonna make it look like a show. You know, I'm gonna do a better job at being a host than those guys are. And then I had, I, there were four clubs in the Dallas area.

4 (1h 59m 21s):
I worked one of 'em once a month as the opening act. So I worked every goddamn night, nine shows a week. And, but you know why? 'cause I was a better fucking host. Not 'cause I was funnier. I was just, I made it look like show biz. That's nice. Like, it look like a slick fucking deal, you know? Yeah. That's what Tony does. He makes it look like a, look like a fucking, the right kind of package. You know? It's done the right way.

3 (1h 59m 42s):
It's also wild too. That show's wild. Some of the shit they say is so wild. It's so they so go for it.

4 (1h 59m 49s):
Well that's why, you know, that's what I love about it. 'cause you don't know, you don't know that deck ain't stacked folks. No. and I, let me tell you something. I tried to stack it one time 'cause my banker wanted to do standup and I thought I could just slide him in. And they were like, no fucking way. They dude, those come out of a hat. Yeah. We don't know who they are. It's the only way to do, and, and, and, and you guys explained to me and I'm like, Of course. That's right. of course, that's

3 (2h 0m 10s):
Right. Be like biblical law. Yeah. You know, like you, you, you have to just really reach in there and really get a piece. Otherwise you're lying about the whole thing.

4 (2h 0m 18s):
Right. Right. And I'm telling you folks, I tried. Yeah. And, and I was shot down.

3 (2h 0m 23s):
No, it's it's, the show crackles. It crackles.

4 (2h 0m 26s):
I had to go back to my banker and go, yeah. I can't do anything really to help you.

3 (2h 0m 30s):
That's hilarious. Your banker.

4 (2h 0m 31s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 0m 32s):
It's gonna give you an interest rate.

4 (2h 0m 34s):
Decrease. I'm sure he is hilarious. Where the world's missing out on something big. It'd, it'd be fun to watch a bomb. But you know what he, the thing is, you can come up there and with a recommendation from me, you can do three minutes on Monday night. Sure. You know?

3 (2h 0m 45s):
Yeah. You do. Double mike night, open

4 (2h 0m 47s):
Mike night. So that's, and that's what he did. Well that's

3 (2h 0m 49s):
A great way to start. That's how you wanna start. You don't wanna start on kill Tony, but a lot of people have. Well,

4 (2h 0m 54s):
Yeah. Right. That's what I mean. People that would be a hard place to start. Insane. And especially if, you know it's a million fucking people.

3 (2h 1m 1s):
But also like amazing thing to document. If that really was the first time and you actually wound up going on from there and having a career. Yeah.

4 (2h 1m 7s):
And you have, you'd have good footage of it, you know.

3 (2h 1m 10s):
Yeah. I mean, look, it can be done. It can be done if you're funny. There's, there's people out there that are you, we all know people that are so funny that for whatever reason never decided to stand up. Yeah. For me it was my boss. I was working for a private investigator at one point in time and he lost his license drinking, driving. And he put in an ad for a private investigator's assistant. It was really just someone to drive him around because he didn't have a license. And so I was looking for like, unconventional ways to make money while I was doing martial arts. So that was what I decided to do. I started working for this guy when I was doing standup comedy. When I just started, I was just like one open mic, two open mics in. Like I had just started. And I met this dude and he was absolutely the funniest dude I had ever met in my life. I couldn't believe how funny he was.

3 (2h 1m 50s):
Right. Funnier than any of the comedian the fuck up at the clubs. Yep. Totally natural. Laughing about everything. And the guy fucking went cold Turkey, no aa, no programs, no nothing. Crashed his car ran from the cops, got busted. And he is like, you know what, I'm fucking done. I'm fucking done. This guy was a character man. He was a fucking character. His name is Dave Dolan. He used to call himself Dynamite Dickless Dave Dolan. He's one of the funniest fucking human beings you

4 (2h 2m 19s):
Remember. and I just drove him around. He

3 (2h 2m 20s):
Drove him around for months. 'cause I, I forget how long he lost his license for, I don't know what it is. You know, when your license gets suspended for DUI. But he lost it for quite a amount of time. And during that time I was making my transition from stand up, from fighting to standup. 'cause I was, I was in the middle of both worlds and it was while I was working for him, but I had

4 (2h 2m 42s):
The last fight. Were you playing pool at the time? Were you

3 (2h 2m 43s):
Playing competitive pool? No, I wasn't playing pool at all. No, I wasn't playing pool at all. I didn't start playing pool until I hurt my knee. I mean I played a couple of times here and there with friends, but I wasn't like really into it until I tore my ACL You know, if you have an ACL injury, it has to be diagnosed, then you have to schedule an appointment, you have to get surgery. It took, so it was a long time where I couldn't, I couldn't do any martial arts. It was just too unstable and it was really fucked up. I, I badly tore my ACL and tore my meniscus. It was like real wobbly. So I really couldn't do martial arts. So it was only just like lifting weights. and I was looking for something challenging to do. And me and my friend would go, he got a job. My friend John got a job working at this pool hall. And he and I would just go there and just knock balls around for free during the day because he was working there.

3 (2h 3m 26s):
Right. So he'd be like working behind the counter. And we, and I just got obsessed with it, man. and I just happened to be around all these people that were like really good players. Like high level professionals would come in from the road because it was a gambling pool hall. It's called Executive billiards in White Plains. This Boston? No, this was New York. Oh, okay. So I was, I didn't really get into pool until I was like 23, 24, 23 or 24. That's when I really started getting into pool.

4 (2h 3m 53s):
And that's before standup or?

3 (2h 3m 55s):
No, I was in the middle of standup in the middle. Okay. It was a problem where like my manager said to me, he goes, I think you care more about pool than you do your career. I was

4 (2h 4m 2s):
Like, oh shit. I was like golf. It was play your golf. You I

3 (2h 4m 5s):
Was playing every day. 8, 8, 10 hours a day. No shit. Every day. Every day I was traveling to go play in tournaments. I was gonna tournaments many nights of the week that I could have easily been doing standup. I was gonna play in tournaments. I'd go to Connecticut to play, I'd go to Jersey to play, I'd go to West End billiards and watch the Killers play.

4 (2h 4m 23s):
Wow.

3 (2h 4m 23s):
West End billiards was this place in a real

4 (2h 4m 27s):
Sketchy

3 (2h 4m 27s):
Part of New Jersey. Woo. It was sketchy. And it was this place where it was world renowned as being like a player's pool hall like Hawaiian. Rodney Morris was there and fucking Mike Segal played there. Like the, the greats of all time. Did

4 (2h 4m 44s):
They ever played, did they even have places like that around here where

3 (2h 4m 47s):
It's not that many of 'em. There's hard times in Sacramento. That's still a big one. That's a big one. They streamed big tournaments from there. Yeah. That's, that one's legit. That's a legit like real players pool hall. But there's a, there's not a lot of them left in the country unfortunately. 'cause the game, it's not very publicized except it's got more of a following now because of the internet. 'cause people are watching those Clips. Right.

4 (2h 5m 12s):
Watching

3 (2h 5m 12s):
And they realize real high level pool, you know, like Joshua Filler. Watch that guy play. My favorite is this guy from Taiwan. His name is ING Chung. He's my favorite. He's so smooth. When you watch that guy move the ball around the table, it's so effortless and precise. And his q ball control is just magical. Magical. He played in the US open and won 11 games in a row on a four inch pocketed table. If you, if you knew how crazy that is to run those kind of racks on a four inch pocketed table, it's like almost

4 (2h 5m 52s):
Unheard of. So what, what, what is a four? I don't even know. That's how, I don't even know

3 (2h 5m 55s):
The, okay, so if you buy a, a Brunswick Gold Crown stock from the factory. Yeah. It probably has five inch pockets. If you buy a diamond, it has four and a half, but you can get it all the way down to four. And they got it all the way down to four full four inch pockets are fucking small. Yeah. They're small. And this fucking dude ran 11 games with four inch pockets.

4 (2h 6m 17s):
With four inch pockets.

3 (2h 6m 18s):
He, he went through the entire,

4 (2h 6m 20s):
So he, he ran 11 games. I mean, like the other guy didn't get a shot for 11 games.

3 (2h 6m 25s):
The guy, either the guy had a shot and mist and then he ran out or he had a safety, he made a safety and the guy had a kick and then he got the ball back. But whatever he did, he just played like perfect pool for a number of games. See, if you watch the guy play, man, if you really know how to play, like it's just effortless. There's something about the, and he, he just keeps getting better too. Like every time you see him in each tournament, he just gets a little bit better. These guys all stopped playing because of the pandemic. So for, for a couple of years they couldn't play internationally. Right. They, so they kind of fell off a little bit. And only the guys who were in certain tours where you were allowed to still play.

3 (2h 7m 7s):
Guys were playing with masks on. It got like real weird for a while. And some of the guys since international travel was limited. They didn't get that high pressure, you know, going to the US Open in Atlantic City. That was the big one where he was at. That's like a big,

4 (2h 7m 20s):
That's where he was in while that was being shot. That's, that's

3 (2h 7m 22s):
All the killers from all around the world gather up in Atlantic City. And

4 (2h 7m 25s):
Did they know who's gonna win? No, before they go into it,

3 (2h 7m 28s):
You can't know who's gonna win. They're too good.

4 (2h 7m 30s):
I mean, did they, so there's not a number one that's significantly better than everybody else. Like there wasn't golf for years with Tiger Woods,

3 (2h 7m 37s):
There's a guy named Shane Vanoni and he's won more than anyone and he's won the US Open. He, he's tied with Earl Strickland who's another one of the all time greats. I think maybe Strickland has more Strickland, might have more. Who won, who won the most US opens Shane Vanoni or Strickland. Either way, this guy wins everything. He's won World Nine Ball, he's won. So if he there multiple times, he's favored to beat most people. But that doesn't mean he's gonna win because a guy like Coing Chunk could just run out and you and You don

4 (2h 8m 7s):
Might never get a chance. You don get a shot at it. Right.

3 (2h 8m 9s):
Okay. Earl Strickland and Shane Bamb both from the US share the record for winning the US Open nine ball championship the most time five Strickland in 84. 87 93. 97 in 2000. And then Vanoni in 2007, 12, 13, 14 and 16. He's evil. He's evil on the table. And when he plays, he shuts his hearing aids off. He's got hearing aids, he shuts those bitches off. And he's in a world of his own man. He doesn't hear any

4 (2h 8m 33s):
Jeering fucking pinball wizard.

3 (2h 8m 35s):
He's the pinball wizard. Yeah, he's the pinball wizard. Yeah. He's a monster man. He's a monster. But one of the greatest players of all time. Like if you have a list of the top five greatest players of all time and you have Shane Vanoni on that list, we're, we're not having a conversation. This is, you're

4 (2h 8m 51s):
A silly person. And what's his mothership? Where does he go to hang out and he's play pool?

3 (2h 8m 55s):
Well, South Dakota is where he started out. They call him a South Dakota kid. He had a table in the basement that had really tight pockets and he would practice his break on it so much that the center of the table was just white from being compressed from the Q ball, smashing into the rack and then slapping down the same spot over and over. He broke so much that he created like a white cloud around where you rack the balls. Wow. Because he is just obsessed and like universally regarded as the one of the greatest breakers of all time, if not the greatest.

4 (2h 9m 22s):
Some these guys are on some spectrum a

3 (2h 9m 24s):
Hundred.

4 (2h 9m 25s):
Yeah. Per slammed. Yeah. Right. Because it's kind of matter. You

3 (2h 9m 29s):
Have to be.

4 (2h 9m 30s):
Yeah. You got,

3 (2h 9m 31s):
You have to be.

4 (2h 9m 33s):
You wanna compete. Yeah.

3 (2h 9m 34s):
You go get vaccinated. You

4 (2h 9m 36s):
We

3 (2h 9m 37s):
Need you. We, we need you in a fucking different realm. No, there's a lot of guys that are like super normal, that are high level competitors that are like normal guys. Like you could hang out with them. They're cool as fuck. It's just an obsession that they could have been doing that with anything else. Could have been disc golf, it could have been Frisbee,

4 (2h 9m 56s):
Carpentry.

3 (2h 9m 57s):
It could, whatever it is. These are just obsessive people that are ed by the game. It's a crazy

4 (2h 10m 2s):
Tiger stat I just saw

3 (2h 10m 3s):
Over the weekend, over a 10 year stretch from 99 to 2009, tiger was more likely to win 34% than finish ninth or worse 32% for 10 years. That's insane. Yeah. Yeah. It's a monster.

4 (2h 10m 14s):
Yeah. Nobody ever racks up those kinds of numbers. Oh,

3 (2h 10m 18s):
She's a monster.

4 (2h 10m 18s):
You got 150 people every week. So you should win one, one out of 152. You know, and instead of 25% of the ones that you fucking enter, it's just crazy. Yeah. You have to be, I'd never be done again. I, I'd like to think

3 (2h 10m 34s):
A mad Genius to pull that off and a mad Genius raised by his dad to be that from the time he was really young, you know?

4 (2h 10m 42s):
Yeah. You'd have to have a springboard. Right.

3 (2h 10m 44s):
Yeah. I mean that's what he was. Right. And also like if your dad plays golf, man, if, if someone in your family plays, I really, really wonder this, if you, are you transferring some of your comedy into your kids? Are you transferring some of your They've said that even bad ideas, like even racism can be inherited. This, this is like a speculation. I forget how they ran that study. But they think that there's some aspect of thinking and of life and of experiences that somehow or another gets transferred to your kid. Which makes sense because the, the big ones do like fear of spiders, fear of, right. Like monsters under the base in the, in the basement.

3 (2h 11m 26s):
Those fears that kids have.

4 (2h 11m 28s):
You think they come, they

3 (2h 11m 29s):
Come from memories of being eaten by cats almost entirely. It's thousands of years of proto hominids being slaughtered by cats.

4 (2h 11m 38s):
Oh wow.

3 (2h 11m 39s):
Yeah. That's why we're scared of

4 (2h 11m 40s):
Monsters. and it just doesn't bother me, I guess. Well it would if

3 (2h 11m 43s):
We were outside Ron while you heard

4 (2h 11m 45s):
Something. I feel safe in here. I I feel safe in here with your big frog burps.

3 (2h 11m 50s):
Yeah. Big frog burps. We have to have protection from the animals. Folks don't get cocky. People are getting cocky right now. They're getting cocky. Talking about bringing grizzly bears back. Shut your fucking dirty mouth. Yeah. Do you want grizzly bears in Beverly Hills? What you gonna, what if they're gonna be fully protected and you can't do anything about it, are you gonna count on the wildlife people to be able to get the grizzly bear

4 (2h 12m 14s):
And you Yeah. And you gotta, before it eats you, I'm gonna tell you right now, if that grizzly wants to fuck you, just let 'em fuck you. Let him

3 (2h 12m 20s):
Fuck you ahead. That's the best case scenario.

4 (2h 12m 22s):
Don't don't, don't fight back. Don't argue. Push

3 (2h 12m 24s):
Back. Push back. Yeah. Pushback. Right. Make, make all the right noises. Do whatever it takes.

4 (2h 12m 28s):
Pretend like you

3 (2h 12m 29s):
Love it. You love it. Yeah. Fucking love it. That's what I would do. If you love living, let that bear fuck you. Yeah. Imagine the kind of vd you get from a grizzly bear. Oh my God.

4 (2h 12m 38s):
You think that's what's going on out there? Yeah,

3 (2h 12m 39s):
I think so. Well that, I think we tried to make that connection with syphilis. I don't think we did, but there was, I was, I think someone had told me that there was two, it was like a fucking really smart guy. I forget who it was, but it was, someone told me that there was two different strains of syphilis and one of 'em seems to have definitely come from North America. So like sailors came over in the 14 hundreds with like the Pinta and the Santa Maria and shit. When they went back they brought syphilis with 'em. 'cause it seems like there's a different strain of syphilis that ran through Europe during that time period. The same place where these people had just got back from

4 (2h 13m 15s):
North. So they picked it from our locals. Yeah. And took it back with 'em. Well that's

3 (2h 13m 18s):
What we did. We gave them horrible diseases. They gave us a few to make fucking holes in your face. The syphilis one was a wild one. That's a wild

4 (2h 13m 28s):
One. I've got a lot of guys, man. Ooh. Killed

3 (2h 13m 30s):
A lot of people. A lot of guys killed Al Capone.

4 (2h 13m 32s):
That slow brain rotting. Horrible fucking nothing you can do about it.

3 (2h 13m 37s):
Isn't it scary that the diseases like that come from sex? So weird. So weird that nature is like so concerned that we're gonna overpopulate. Yeah. That

4 (2h 13m 47s):
It

3 (2h 13m 47s):
Gives you diseases that you only get from sex.

4 (2h 13m 50s):
You, you have to live in fear.

3 (2h 13m 51s):
This's the scariest one. Syphilis and aids. What scares you more than syphilis and aids? Nothing. If you get a doc, I'm not feeling so good. Syphilis

4 (2h 13m 58s):
Or aids.

3 (2h 13m 59s):
Either one. They like, oh

4 (2h 14m 0s):
Shit. S syphilis, I guess. I don't know.

3 (2h 14m 3s):
This is no fucking problem.

4 (2h 14m 4s):
Magic Johnson's doing okay man.

3 (2h 14m 7s):
As much shit as people talk about like pharmaceutical drug companies or drug or medical science in general. I am so thankful they exist because if it wasn't for them, if there was no penicillin, do you know how fucked we'd be? And I know people are saying, oh, people are abusing antibiotics. They are. They are. That's true. But isn't it great that we have antibiotics? Yep. Because if it wasn't sure

4 (2h 14m 31s):
The fuck. Yeah. Half

3 (2h 14m 32s):
The fucking people would be dead. Right. Not half. But you know what it's like back in the day, if you got a, a staph infection, that was a wrap. That was it buddy.

4 (2h 14m 41s):
That's right.

3 (2h 14m 41s):
It's going systemic. It's taken over your blood. Yeah.

4 (2h 14m 44s):
And if you had breast cancer, you were done. That's just pure death cells

3 (2h 14m 47s):
Own breaks.

4 (2h 14m 48s):
Yep.

3 (2h 14m 48s):
Done. That's a wrap. You're losing that leg.

4 (2h 14m 50s):
Yeah. Teeths gone.

3 (2h 14m 52s):
Done. You don't eat, you starve. You can't keep up. There was this tribe that I was reading about, I forget whose book was it, but it was about what happens with the older women in this tribe. It's horrible that the younger males, when they realize the older women aren't keeping up anymore, they'll sneak behind them and bludgeon them over the head and

4 (2h 15m 14s):
What's not keeping up.

3 (2h 15m 15s):
They don't keep up because they're, they're nomadic tribal people and it's, you know. Oh, you mean

4 (2h 15m 19s):
They're like lagging behind the group as it moves.

3 (2h 15m 21s):
Exactly.

4 (2h 15m 22s):
Exactly. And then what happens to 'em? They

3 (2h 15m 24s):
Get killed by the younger males. So they have a fear of the young males and they have a fear. A natural, A natural of 'em. Yeah. Fear. Well it's, it's supposedly accepted in the tribe because it's understood that at a certain time you're not, you're you're putting them in danger. You're putting 'em in danger by slowing them down. Right. It's really dark. It's really dark. I think, was it Malcolm Gladwell? I don't remember who, who? Killers

5 (2h 15m 48s):
Of the flower. Moon. I think

3 (2h 15m 49s):
No Killers of the flower. Moon was the I. know

5 (2h 15m 52s):
It's I I Googled tribe, young males kill it or Women book. And that's what's popping up.

3 (2h 15m 57s):
They did that as well. It's

5 (2h 15m 58s):
Just that book is popping up. They might have talked about

3 (2h 15m 60s):
It. They might've talked about it. They might've. I didn't see that movie yet. I heard It's awesome though. Have you seen it? Killers of Flower

4 (2h 16m 5s):
Movie? No, I haven't seen it.

3 (2h 16m 6s):
You see it Jamie? I was gonna

5 (2h 16m 7s):
Watch it last night. Just

3 (2h 16m 7s):
Didn't. Well Jamie, where's your report? Please

4 (2h 16m 9s):
Watch it on. It's

3 (2h 16m 11s):
Pretty good.

5 (2h 16m 11s):
It's still available for rent. It'll be on something Apple or something next month. don don't know.

3 (2h 16m 16s):
I think it's on, it's on iMovie right now. Yeah, it's

5 (2h 16m 19s):
On everything to by. Like it's just not available for free streaming. I should

3 (2h 16m 22s):
Oh, I see. Specify.

4 (2h 16m 23s):
I got money.

3 (2h 16m 24s):
He's got money. Why trying to save wrong like

4 (2h 16m 26s):
3 99. Didn't,

5 (2h 16m 27s):
How much does it come on? 3 99. Do you wanna buy it? Do you wanna rent it?

4 (2h 16m 30s):
Rent it? I don't have that kind of money. I'm not gonna, isn't weird. I'm gonna

3 (2h 16m 33s):
Buy. It isn't weird. They give you an option to watch it over for the rest of your life. Right?

5 (2h 16m 36s):
Well sometimes they take that shit away. Do you? It's happened

3 (2h 16m 40s):
Even if you buy it, do they refund your money?

5 (2h 16m 42s):
No. No. I mean like if you don't buy it,

3 (2h 16m 43s):
Oh then you can't get it again. You

5 (2h 16m 45s):
Can't get it when you want it.

3 (2h 16m 46s):
Oh that's interesting. Oh, so is that like they have long-term deals, like Apple would have a deal,

4 (2h 16m 50s):
But I thought I was buying stuff on iTunes and it just disappeared. I mean things I bought, you know, are just gone on iTunes now it says they're not available in the country that you're in. I'm like, this is the country I bought 'em in.

3 (2h 17m 0s):
Yeah. That's weird. That might be a glitch. don don't know how that works. don don't know.

4 (2h 17m 4s):
But

3 (2h 17m 4s):
I was reading something very Bazar about Google and their terms of service and what they're gonna do to adjust something for a sensitive event. Did you see that? I could send you the article, but it was one of those ones where I, I read it and I was like, I read like one paragraph into it and I was like, Jesus Christ is starting to make me angry. I don't wanna read into this.

4 (2h 17m 28s):
Well don don't know where my phone is. But I wanted to ask because it is something literally if I go to Allman Brothers, there's an article from 40 and, and go to, I wanna listen to a song. It says no longer available in the country you're in and that's iTunes. And then I can, but I can push the button and say, play the Allman Brothers band and it'll play it. It'll play it. but it, but I don't have it at my command on iTunes. Like I did. don don't know where it went. I thought I was buying that stuff. That's what I meant. But I apparently I wasn't buying it. Right. I just thought I was buying it 'cause it didn't there anymore.

3 (2h 18m 2s):
Yeah, I don't know how that works. They must have some different licensing deals with certain songs. Jamie, that's not it. It's something that was real recent and they were talking about what they would do for significant, significant cultural event. I say, lemme see if I can,

5 (2h 18m 17s):
This is yeah, a new policy going effect February, 2024. It clearly defines what constitutes a sensitive event for purposes of prohibiting certain exploitative or insensitive ads and content.

3 (2h 18m 28s):
Yeah, that's it.

5 (2h 18m 29s):
While Google already had policies in place for ads and YouTube monetization, this expands the restrictions to Google's publisher network as well.

3 (2h 18m 37s):
And so there was, it was defined in a certain way. See if you could pull up what it actually says. 'cause the way it was defined, what disturbed me was that it's very blanket, a sensitive event is defined rather as an unforeseen or unexpected situation that poses a significant risk to Google's ability to provide high quality, relevant information while reducing insensitive, insensitive content. Is that, I have a concern with that. Well, insensitive content in prominent and monetized features, insensitive content.

4 (2h 19m 9s):
Insensitive to who?

3 (2h 19m 10s):
Exactly. So open and subjective. Now listen to this though. Sensitive events include those with major social, cultural, or political impact, such as civil emergencies, natural disasters, public health, crisises, terrorism conflict or mass violence. So what they're saying is you must, must be sensitive if you're gonna discuss civil emergencies, natural disasters, public health crisis, any thing with a major social, cultural or political impact, terrorism, mass violence, you must now be sensitive. The thing is like whatever they're trying to say and whatever they're trying to do to make the the, the online world a nicer place. Right? It's, you gotta be really careful with saying things like that.

3 (2h 19m 53s):
'cause sensitive is a weird term if someone is violently s opposed

4 (2h 19m 57s):
To who,

3 (2h 19m 58s):
Right? It also with someone is violently opposed, is something that's happening, like think about one, one or many of the military conflicts around the world. Don't pick aside. What if someone is violently opposed to these people dying and losing their lives and they're talking about it. Is that an insensitive piece of content that can now be censored by a new policy? Is that what it is? Or is it just gonna demonetize it? Which they've kind of always done.

5 (2h 20m 21s):
I think this was talking about people who are making ads using their platform, not people who are hosting content on their platforms.

4 (2h 20m 27s):
I I I get it. So say

3 (2h 20m 28s):
It again. What is,

4 (2h 20m 29s):
I gotta admit I'm a little lost on this one

3 (2h 20m 32s):
I think. I think I

4 (2h 20m 32s):
Were saying, so if any of the listeners out there are also a little confused as the No,

3 (2h 20m 36s):
It's about them having the ability to censor you. Right? So if you do the Ron White show on YouTube, right, which is owned by Google. If they decide that this something of whatever you're doing is in somehow or another offensive, they

4 (2h 20m 49s):
Would want to edit it.

3 (2h 20m 50s):
I don't know what they're saying they can and can't do.

5 (2h 20m 52s):
I think it's making ads. I don't know if it has to do with the content that, again, that's on YouTube. I think this, that policy content change is for people who use the Google Ads platform and create ads like this one I'm showing you right here. So that you can't abuse

3 (2h 21m 4s):
It, you can't monetize it. But look how it's phrased. Please go. Go back to the top sentence. So look, which one it says the updated policy provides practicing, including price gouging, misdirected traffic, and victim blaming during sensitive events. I'm with the first ones price gouging misdirected traffic. I'm with those. But victim blaming during sensitive events, that one gets tushy. 'cause like what do we,

5 (2h 21m 29s):
It's just using the ad. So it's like making some weird ad to pop up to get you to click on something that's gonna pop up on content that might be about that event or anything like that.

3 (2h 21m 35s):
I understand. But victim blaming, the thing about victim blaming is you can do it both ways, right? Like victim blaming, like with Hamas and Palestine and, and Israel, you could go, you could victim blame on both sides. You could say the Israelis were doing this and that's why Hamas had to attack. And you say Hamas attacked and that's why the Israelis are doing this. And you fucking people should have known better and you fucking people should have known better. That's victim blaming.

4 (2h 21m 58s):
Sure.

3 (2h 21m 59s):
You gotta let people talk. Yeah. And if talking looks like victim blaming until people work it out,

4 (2h 22m 5s):
Then why not let out?

3 (2h 22m 7s):
You can't just stop people from talking. So what are we saying? Are we saying that it's just they can't monetize that? Well then what happens is, if you're not monetizing stuff, you let people know that unless they self-censor, it's gonna cost them financially. Even if the ads like, like say, if the represents a company that is actually interested in this discussion and wants to know like, what is the right, what's the right perspective on this? Who's most informed? Who's looking at this the most correctly? If you're a company and you're, why wouldn't you want to advertise on something where people are just talking about what may or may not be happening in the world? And if you're gonna do that on YouTube, then you have to worry about you're losing your ability to make a living.

3 (2h 22m 49s):
Now. It's like, ooh. Is that what happens?

4 (2h 22m 52s):
I don't know. I don't know.

3 (2h 22m 54s):
I mean is this, this is just a blanket policy in, in case of the most egregious offenses that all people agree are terrible and should probably not be Okay. But then who gets to decide that?

4 (2h 23m 7s):
What happens to the frogs eating the mouths and shit like that?

3 (2h 23m 11s):
Ron White. This is the future of people being able to talk shit. All right. All right. That's what it is.

4 (2h 23m 14s):
No, I believe that. You know,

3 (2h 23m 16s):
It's kind of the future of people being able to talk shit. 'cause this is how it goes away, right? It goes away through stuff like that. Sure. It goes away through people deciding that something's insensitive, which is like 98% of all jokes,

4 (2h 23m 27s):
Right? Yeah. You don't want to come to my You, don wanna come to my show. That's what

3 (2h 23m 32s):
I'm saying.

5 (2h 23m 32s):
Here's their examples they give.

3 (2h 23m 34s):
Okay. Here's some examples. Alright. Violations this. Okay, what is examples and exhaustive ads that claim victims of, oh, ads that claim victims of sensitive event responsible for their own tragedy or similar instances of victim. Okay. Ads. Yes. So it's just about ads. Yeah. As

5 (2h 23m 51s):
At least for now it is. You know, maybe they could switch it and be like, now all content, but

3 (2h 23m 55s):
Well, that's completely reasonable, right? If it's just about ads, that's completely reasonable, right? Yeah. I guess you should want to be able to control how fucked up the ads are. 'cause that's kind of Well, is it?

5 (2h 24m 8s):
It's just ads. They're just like you, you can still use other parts of the internet that can still,

3 (2h 24m 12s):
But you can't use propaganda though. You can't lie. Yeah. You can't use Google Ads.

5 (2h 24m 15s):
Ads, which is the biggest part of the internet advertising world.

3 (2h 24m 18s):
Right? They shut you out.

5 (2h 24m 19s):
Do it somewhere else, is all they're saying. Right? But

4 (2h 24m 21s):
That's

3 (2h 24m 21s):
Seems

4 (2h 24m 22s):
Reasonable. Yeah. That's pretty reasonable. You

3 (2h 24m 24s):
Know, as long as they're not doing that with the actual content of the, the, the, the podcast. 'cause I do know that they demonetize they demonetize people all the time. If you talk about certain subjects, it's, it's always been a problem.

4 (2h 24m 35s):
This is, yeah, this is, and they, they don't do that to use they

3 (2h 24m 37s):
They used to do it. Yeah. They used to do it up until the time when we switched over to Spotify and it

5 (2h 24m 42s):
On their website. This is specifically on our advertising policies.

3 (2h 24m 44s):
So Yeah, I think

4 (2h 24m 45s):
So. Now they don't do it to anybody or they

3 (2h 24m 47s):
No, no. They do it to other people. They do it to other people all the time. But they stopped doing it to us for like three months. Like where they didn't give us any dings. We're doing the same show. Right. I don't know any other way to do this. Right. You gotta sit down and talk shit. Right. It's the only way to do it. Right? If I change that for somebody that's gonna censor something or I'm gonna lose money, like what are you talking about? Like, I can't change what I do. No, no. If there's zero interest in doing that. Yeah. You know, and if don don't think it's offensive, then that's it. That's the end of the

4 (2h 25m 14s):
Conversation. and I think you're pretty sensitive. Yeah, I'm

3 (2h 25m 17s):
Sensitive. I try to be sensitive about these kind of things. It's just, you gotta let people talk and just because people disagree with you, it doesn't mean there's something wrong with them. Did you see that clip? He was the, the way he was phrasing it was actually kind of funny. He was talking about white frailty or white anxiety. That it's a public health crisis. That white people who vote Republican. It's just like an opioid epidemic. This guy was comparing the two. Eric, I'm gonna play. You wanna send this to you? Jamie? don don't know where this is. I don't know where he said this. I just saw it on Twitter and I'm like, man, you gotta get out of the house. You gotta go hang out with some different folks.

3 (2h 25m 58s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 25m 59s):
'cause they

3 (2h 25m 59s):
Don't have an opioid epidemic. There's a lot of people that are the conservative people that are like really clear thinking people like this. Absolutely. Yeah. They just, they don't, they think there's a, this is a mess and they want things to change. Right. And they want the rule of law put back into place. Doesn't mean they're on opiates.

4 (2h 26m 15s):
Opioids. Right. No, this

3 (2h 26m 16s):
Is so crazy to say that everybody who doesn't agree with you, he's a lot

4 (2h 26m 19s):
Of drugs. It's, well, you know, and that, that gets fired back both on, on both sides. Just of

3 (2h 26m 26s):
It's because you're now, you're in a stupid war where you're like, you're stupid. No, you're stupid.

4 (2h 26m 29s):
Right? It is.

3 (2h 26m 30s):
You people are on drugs

4 (2h 26m 32s):
Who brought back name calling. Yeah. Was that I

3 (2h 26m 34s):
Know

12 (2h 26m 34s):
If you had been taught equality from the beginning, you wouldn't be flipping out. But that's how hegemonic dominance works. And so I think that's why it happens. And we have to be willing to talk about that because it's really unhealthy. This white anxiety is a public health crisis in that regard. And that's why, you know, not only we were talking in the other room a minute ago before we came in here, you know, that, that it's not just the opioid crisis that we think about with folks killing themselves disproportionately, increasingly white working class folks who are, you know, using heroin or using over the counter opioids. But they're political opioids turning to a candidate who says, you vote for me and I will take away your pain. I will bring back those jobs. I will make your life better. That's a form of an opiate as well.

12 (2h 27m 15s):
So we gotta be honest about, about the dysfunctionality of, and the real danger of the front lash backlash, whatever we want to call it. Even for the people who are, you know, thinking they're gonna benefit from it.

3 (2h 27m 26s):
Yeah. What you see, right? There is a wild instance of someone that's used to being around like a certain type of people that think a certain type of way. Right?

4 (2h 27m 34s):
And think it's okay to say out loud. I think everyone

3 (2h 27m 36s):
Is gonna, everyone is gonna go along with this

4 (2h 27m 38s):
On a bigger

3 (2h 27m 38s):
Forum. And you put that out there to the world and the whole world is like, what the fuck are you talking about? What are you talking about? They're not on opioids. What are you saying someone is gonna

4 (2h 27m 49s):
Make and why are you dressed like that? You shouldn't, that You didn have an opinion.

3 (2h 27m 53s):
That doesn't bother me at all. It does.

4 (2h 27m 54s):
He's, he's dressed like Edie I mean would dress in a casual setting.

3 (2h 28m 0s):
Lemme say it again. I didn't even think about how he is dressed. I just thought about what he was saying that he, he just dressed like a regular guy.

4 (2h 28m 7s):
It's paramilitary. No, it's,

3 (2h 28m 8s):
Yeah, it is. It is. That's a carhart shirt. That's no, that guy, that guy doesn't look paramilitary at all. Ron White. Maybe

4 (2h 28m 17s):
I saw it in his eyes. don don't know.

3 (2h 28m 18s):
No. Well, it's kind of, yeah, it's kind of a

4 (2h 28m 22s):
Very fast fascist perspective per Castro. Come on. No,

3 (2h 28m 25s):
It's just a shirt with two buttons. Beard. It's just a shirt with

4 (2h 28m 28s):
Two pockets. It's up to no good. Looks like the guy.

5 (2h 28m 30s):
Some don have suits on, so why not wear a suit?

3 (2h 28m 32s):
He's probably casual guy. Casual guy. Tuned into the younger people. Casual Friday. You just like that. That's a crazy thing to say. And it's, it's also, it's not a nuanced perspective on the whole race issue in this country, in this world. It's a silly thing to do to say that all people that are Republicans that are these white people are like on opioids and they want someone to rescue them. It's so silly. It's so stupid to lump them all into white people. First of all, because there's a lot of people that are Republican that aren't white. There's a shit ton of them. Man, go down to Miami. Those Cubans are all Republican, right? They're all Republican. There's so many Republicans down there. It's a silly thing to say.

3 (2h 29m 12s):
and it's also a silly thing to say that the people that oppose you politically just wrong, so wrong that they're looking for a drug to rescue them. That like someone who comes along and says that they can do a better job is offering you heroin.

4 (2h 29m 26s):
I think both, both sides have a really difficult time understanding the percept perspective of the other. Yep. You know, there's just a big swing and a miss and you could butt heads All day and nothing budges. Yep. And you know, I know some real smart wealthy guys that disagree with me. A hundred percent. And so when we're around each other, guess what we don't do? Talk about it. Because there's so much more that there's so many connections that we do have. Yeah. You know, why let that political thing get in the way of friendship? 'cause it sure can if you let it, you know it. But

3 (2h 30m 2s):
Here's the problem. This is the number one problem. People attach themselves to their ideas and they attach themselves to a party that their ideas most likely have been adopted from. Most people's opinions politically are a conglomeration of a group of people's opinions they've adopted. Whether it's right wing people, extreme rightwing, I mean, I'm saying most, what is it, 60%? How many independent

4 (2h 30m 24s):
Environmental productivity? There's

3 (2h 30m 26s):
A lot of people that are not independent thinkers is my point.

4 (2h 30m 29s):
Everybody, almost

3 (2h 30m 31s):
Most people, right? So when you get connected ideologically very personally to a group of opinions, and then someone opposes that group of opinions, they're attacking you. They're attacking you. You take it very personally. And people are receptive about the way they phrase things in order to try to win. And it's entirely because their self-worth is connected to this verbal jousting that they're doing, which is both productive and unproductive at the same time. Because once you find out things are

4 (2h 30m 60s):
Bullshit, it's fruitless. I think it's

3 (2h 31m 1s):
Fruitless. but it does allow you sometimes to find out if things are bullshit. But on the other hand, it's not smart, it's not a smart way to communicate because most people are in the middle on everything. Most people just want the world to be a safer place. You want your kids to go to nice schools, right? You want your neighborhood to be safe. You want people to make money. You want the a economy to do well. You don't want any war. Yay. Yeah. That's, that's the most important shit most people.

4 (2h 31m 23s):
And we want it to be balanced and we want it to work right. You know, people, for as many people as possible,

3 (2h 31m 27s):
Leave me the fuck alone. Don't tell me what to do. You know, have laws in place to keep people from getting fucked over, but taking a fucking hands off approach. But as soon as what people don't understand, it's as soon as you start developing all these different areas of business and of life that have to be adjusted, you have to be adjusted. And that's like, you know, putting like DEI initiatives and doing these different things where you're not gonna hire the most qualified people. You're gonna hire people. You wanna hire a certain percentage of people from this part of the world, a certain percentage of people from that. It's like what you're, even if you think you are doing better for the world, what you don't recognize is that this is a pattern of control and this pattern of control that can be used to manipulate people to thinking they're doing something good socially, which they may very well be.

3 (2h 32m 14s):
What it really does is allows control of businesses in a new way. and it allows control of public perception in a new way that can be manipulated to get you to do certain things and get you to allow certain legislation to get passed that has the government have much more control over what you do or what you say and how much money they get. And money for programs. And it's, you're locked into a system now. And if you wanna be a good person, you have to follow this pattern. Sure. That's where things get squirrely. And so as soon as people start telling people how they can and can't talk, this book's gotta be gone. You can't say that you can't teach this. As soon as that happens and the government steps in, we're fucked.

3 (2h 32m 55s):
We're fucked. 'cause if they step in, they're not gonna do it for what's in your best interest. They're gonna do it in whatever way makes them the most money or cost them the least.

4 (2h 33m 4s):
Well, you know, something's gotta keep this herd going in the right direction. You know, I think it's mushrooms. And that's what I think. Let's just go back to that answer. One

3 (2h 33m 16s):
Day. One day,

4 (2h 33m 17s):
One day.

3 (2h 33m 18s):
Mushroom off for the whole world.

4 (2h 33m 19s):
Oh yeah. Well eventually that organism will just take over everything. It's really grows well. and it, it'll, it'll just get in your shoes and, and it will balance everything out. Everything will make sense.

3 (2h 33m 29s):
Yeah. You know what'll happen? It'll get airborne. The spores will get airborne. Start

4 (2h 33m 35s):
Getting people high and it, and it pick every problem we've ever had. That's

3 (2h 33m 37s):
What we need. That's what we need. Ari Shafi created Shroom Fest and if he was more ambitious, that would be the number one festival in the world.

4 (2h 33m 44s):
He was more ambitious. I would've heard of it for sure.

3 (2h 33m 48s):
It's just an unofficial

4 (2h 33m 49s):
Thing. I'm, I'm joking around. I'm, I'm all for it.

3 (2h 33m 51s):
July of every year. There's places now where you can go. It's actually legal. Especially if you go

4 (2h 33m 57s):
Colorado. Right? Is

3 (2h 33m 57s):
It? I believe Colorado decriminalized it and I think Portland essentially decriminalized almost everything. Yeah. I think, or is it Oregon in total decriminalized almost everything? Or is it just Portland? There's

4 (2h 34m 11s):
Some, I think the gloves are off in Portland. You can do whatever you want to. Whatever you want up there. Yeah.

3 (2h 34m 15s):
Some lady,

4 (2h 34m 16s):
Beautiful

3 (2h 34m 16s):
Town, some lady who was no sales tax. She's either running for office or she's Oregon's first in nation law, decriminalized possession of small amounts of heroin, cocaine, and other illicit drugs in favor of an emphasis on addiction treatment is facing strong headwinds. Yeah. In the progressive state. After an explosion of public drug use fueled by the proliferation of fentanyl. Oh my God. They flooded the streets.

4 (2h 34m 43s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's gotta be, it's, it's gotta be legal and free. That's, that's the only answer. It's gotta be completely legal and it's gotta be no cost to you. And that's the only thing that's gonna make it less profitable. Which is what drives the whole thing. Anyway. You gotta give it away. You gotta do what the Japanese did to us with television sets. Flood the fucking market. Choke 'em out. That's what you gotta do. You want to die over to heroin over to fucking go. You go buddy. We're we got too many of us. Anyway. Fucking take you, make the decision. Not a lot of people make the decision to fucking do it. You gonna

3 (2h 35m 17s):
Run for

4 (2h 35m 18s):
President? I'm not. I'm not. And

3 (2h 35m 20s):
Listen, once you become a pastor, people believe you more. Right.

4 (2h 35m 23s):
I know. I know it. I know I'd be good at at it's the I know I could do it. I know. That's what what I'm

3 (2h 35m 26s):
Saying. Ron start Pastor. When you got pastor,

4 (2h 35m 28s):
Pastor

3 (2h 35m 28s):
Hair Damn Spring Chicken compared to Bidet. We can trot you out in a couple years of like fine polishing. Right. So we start, we start the Christian con, no compound church. Start the church, get it all sorted

4 (2h 35m 40s):
Out. Well we haven't decided Christian. We just said we're gonna hook you big. I think Scientology. That's

3 (2h 35m 44s):
What I was gonna say.

4 (2h 35m 45s):
Ron, get

3 (2h 35m 46s):
Him involved. You look, I'm down with your craziness. Just let's be friends. I

4 (2h 35m 50s):
Could be

3 (2h 35m 50s):
You. Grab my back, I'll rock yours.

4 (2h 35m 51s):
Right. That's come on. I can be your And that's the way it really works.

3 (2h 35m 54s):
Comedic Tom Cruise. Right? I can hang in there for you. I can say, listen,

4 (2h 35m 58s):
We're gonna need celebrities. That's for sure.

3 (2h 36m 0s):
I know it sounds crazy on paper

4 (2h 36m 1s):
Because everybody believes it.

3 (2h 36m 3s):
But once you experience it and you realize the fess are real. Have you ever seen the South Park animation of what Scientologists believe?

4 (2h 36m 10s):
Yeah. I think I have. I the, you know, those guys just crack me up. They're amazing. Nobody laughs me, makes me laugh. Like those guys, they're

3 (2h 36m 16s):
The tip of the spear in the culture War. South Park is the tip of the spear in the culture war. They go after everybody forever and they get away with it. 'cause it's a cartoon. Right. And it's a super unrealistic looking cartoon and grandfathered in.

4 (2h 36m 28s):
There's no, yeah. There's no way you could ever think it was real. And

3 (2h 36m 31s):
They're Genius and the characters never get old. That's the most amazing thing.

4 (2h 36m 35s):
The best. I watch it all the time. You,

3 (2h 36m 37s):
When you have a cartoon that doesn't even look remotely real. That character could be that forever. There's no timeline. They're in, they're in school for the rest of their fucking lives.

4 (2h 36m 46s):
That's the only constant in my life is South Park. I can get 24 hours a day and Fear Factor, ah, fear Factor comes on my television. Every time I turn it on, it automatically goes straight to Fear Factor. And, and you have to turn it off before something happens that you go, oh God,

3 (2h 37m 6s):
That's hilarious.

4 (2h 37m 7s):
But it and I don't know why it's a deal they made with Samsung on these TVs. but it, that's what it goes to. And no matter what you were watching before, whenever you turn it off, turn it back on. Fear Factor.

3 (2h 37m 18s):
Yeah. I got a Samsung TV in the gym and when I turn it on, it goes right to Hell's Kitchen every time. It's always Hell's Kitchen. I wonder

4 (2h 37m 23s):
Why Mine's

3 (2h 37m 24s):
Fucking don Don't know. Maybe it's like if you set it on a channel at one point in time, it just goes back to that channel. Maybe

4 (2h 37m 30s):
That's what don don't

3 (2h 37m 31s):
Know. But I'm on the Hell's Kitchen channel where Hell's Kitchen plays 24 hours a day on my Samsung tv. As soon as I turn it on before I go to ESPN Plus. Right. It goes right

4 (2h 37m 40s):
To right. No, that's what mine does. but it does it with fucking Fear Factor.

3 (2h 37m 44s):
I would have like such a, a terrible opinion.

4 (2h 37m 47s):
I'd just sit around thinking all those girls were pretty hot. But I mean the fear factor. Like, everyone look good.

3 (2h 37m 53s):
Do you jerk off when you're

4 (2h 37m 54s):
Watching Fear Factor? don? Don't, I don't, don't

3 (2h 37m 56s):
Be, I don't

4 (2h 37m 56s):
Wanna get involved. Not every, not every time.

3 (2h 37m 58s):
Don don't wanna be involved.

4 (2h 37m 59s):
Not every time I gotta be in something else had to have happened. And then, you know, fear Factor just got in the way. Gordon

3 (2h 38m 5s):
Ramsey. If I didn't know any better, I think he's the meanest guy on earth. 'cause every time I turn on the tv, he's yelling at somebody. Right. Like every time, every time he's fucking screaming and yelling at people. 'cause that's the shtick. Like you could develop a very bad perception.

4 (2h 38m 16s):
But he, but he's not like that in real life. Do you know him in real life? don? Don't

3 (2h 38m 19s):
Know. Can't be. Someone would beat the fuck outta him by now.

4 (2h 38m 22s):
Right? I think people have, I think he's a prick. I think, you know, that's, I think that's the word on the street. What's the word on the street? He, he's a prick. Kind of a prick,

3 (2h 38m 32s):
I think to

4 (2h 38m 32s):
Be great. I've never met him either. The guy could be the nicest guy. Like guy plate of butter.

3 (2h 38m 37s):
I bet he is a nice guy. Yeah, he's a great chef. Great chefs are wild people. Yeah. They're like people that create great food or they're, they're like great musicians. They great comics. They're wild artists. Right. They're different kind of PE person. It is an art. I didn't really appreciate that until I met Bourdain when I, when I started talking to him. Especially when after I watched his show. I think that's when I first realized I was like, oh, this is an art form. I always used to think of it as just good food

4 (2h 39m 1s):
That, you know, that was a guy. I just, I always thought I would be his friend someday. You

3 (2h 39m 7s):
Would've been his friend.

4 (2h 39m 8s):
You know, I just always thought the guy that, you know, I could watch that guy. He just seemed so, so honest and genuine. He awesome. You into his life, you know? And you following around. Awesome guy. That was great. I didn't,

3 (2h 39m 20s):
I wish I could have set that up. I wish I could have got you guys together. He's a great guy.

4 (2h 39m 26s):
Well, it's too late now, Joe. Thanks.

3 (2h 39m 28s):
Yeah. Man. Man. Do you know how I found out Maynard from Tool Text me and he goes, I guess the celebrity Juujitsu match is off. And I was like, what? Because he used to joke around about like having a celebrity Ji Maynard's really good by the, by. Excuse me, by the way. Maynard just got his black belt. Congratulations. Maynard Keenan from Tool. He's a legitimate black belt. Oh yeah. Like really good at Juujitsu. I watched him train in here with Ron, with John Donaher before we did a podcast. He trained right next door at the gym. But you know, he's like, like a really legitimate jujitsu guy there. It's that's him.

4 (2h 40m 6s):
Oh wow.

3 (2h 40m 7s):
So Ron White. That's your next move.

4 (2h 40m 9s):
Jiujitsu

3 (2h 40m 10s):
Jujitsu. Ron White Or you Ron White.

4 (2h 40m 12s):
Juujitsu. I want a band.

3 (2h 40m 14s):
You want a band,

4 (2h 40m 15s):
Do you? No, I don't want a band. No. You know what I want to do? I, I want to, besides the religion,

3 (2h 40m 21s):
Can I ask you, did you ever do the, the show in la The Grand Ba, comedy Jam, whatever it is. Yeah. What is it? How goddamn God Comedy Jam. Yeah. Josh Adam Meyer show. Yeah. What'd you sing?

4 (2h 40m 32s):
Gimme Three Steps. It was great. You know, that had that electric violinist. Yeah. Doing lead guitar stuff. Oh, nice. and it was fun as shit. And, and I think Bill Burr was that night playing drums.

3 (2h 40m 44s):
Bill is a really good drummer.

4 (2h 40m 45s):
Yeah, he was. I was fucking shocked.

3 (2h 40m 47s):
Bill Burr is a really dedicated drummer.

4 (2h 40m 49s):
And, and I and I gotta tell you, I killed it. Nice. I, I practiced it. You know, at the time I was with a, with a, I was with a singer, so she helped me get the beats on it with the thing. Now don't get outside of that. 'cause you can't get outside of that. You gotta sing it under this and I gotta, so I thought, you know,

3 (2h 41m 5s):
Nice, nice.

4 (2h 41m 8s):
I pressed the chicks, I think that night.

3 (2h 41m 10s):
Fuck. Yeah, he did. That's a great song too. Any Skynyrd song. That's a wild band too. Right? Think about those dirty white dudes from Florida,

4 (2h 41m 18s):
Man. Yeah, I saw him on the concert when I was a kid. You know, at the, in fact, I think it's the same place that Olsteen preaches at now. Really? It was the, it was, what was it? The Houston, I can't even

3 (2h 41m 33s):
Remember the name of it. Something Dome or something.

4 (2h 41m 35s):
Coum.

3 (2h 41m 36s):
Where's

4 (2h 41m 36s):
He at? I can't think of the name of it.

3 (2h 41m 38s):
Isn't that wild? You bought that for Jesus bought a Chi. How many seats?

4 (2h 41m 42s):
Where I saw Skynyrd? It's like 16,000.

3 (2h 41m 45s):
16,000 for Jesus.

4 (2h 41m 47s):
But I don don't know. That's

3 (2h 41m 48s):
12 million. Joel Olsteen Houston's Compact Center.

4 (2h 41m 52s):
Yeah. Wow. No, this was another step. Whoa. The

3 (2h 41m 56s):
Church spent, this was before this 90 million to renovate it. They spent 90 on it. They got it for 12 and they spent 90. How dope is it? No wonder why they didn't want fucking refugees, Nick.

4 (2h 42m 10s):
God, they didn't let him in $90 million. There's no way. And, and he literally said something about they had just wow that look at this and these people, that's why. And you know, he basically preach, preaches, it's okay to be, it's okay to be rich. And these people in that thing, they're like, oh, that's what I want to hear. I want to hear, it's okay for me to have my hunk of the pie and I don't have to feel guilty for it. And by God I'm white and I don't, you know, not that they're all white, but

3 (2h 42m 35s):
What are you saying Ron

4 (2h 42m 36s):
Don don't I'm just saying that that that my, my religion's gonna be different. What

3 (2h 42m 40s):
Are you gonna do? You gonna be poor?

4 (2h 42m 43s):
No, I'm not.

3 (2h 42m 43s):
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. No,

4 (2h 42m 44s):
No, no, no, no, no. If you

3 (2h 42m 46s):
Be the guy with 90 cars, but still be delivering the real shit. Right. That's the thing.

4 (2h 42m 52s):
Yeah. I don't have 90 cars. You

3 (2h 42m 54s):
Don't need 90

4 (2h 42m 54s):
Cars. Three. I got three cars. 90

3 (2h 42m 56s):
Cars is like 90 cars. You have to keep like fixed. If we keep changing oil and

4 (2h 43m 2s):
Pay the insurance on 'em, what

3 (2h 43m 3s):
Are you doing? That's too many. It's too many Rolls Royces. But if you're just gonna be some high baller guru type character that really is connected to the God force of the universe. That guy used to,

4 (2h 43m 16s):
You should have it

3 (2h 43m 16s):
All. He used to give people orgasms, touching their foreheads. Look at there. Didn't he give people orgasms by like touching their temples and shit? He could do some

4 (2h 43m 25s):
Wilds. If somebody could do that to me, I would follow 'em anywhere. I think

3 (2h 43m 28s):
He could

4 (2h 43m 28s):
Do it. If you could fucking, I, I don't care who it was. Well, that was the guy. They could do that. If that frog could do it, I would follow that frog

3 (2h 43m 36s):
That the, the cult that you made me buy the building. That guy did that to people. He gave him orgasms.

4 (2h 43m 43s):
He did? Yeah.

3 (2h 43m 44s):
Yeah. The guy was, he was a hypnotist. It's a great documentary. It's called Holy Hell Hypnotized

4 (2h 43m 52s):
People.

3 (2h 43m 53s):
Yeah. He hypnotized them and then

4 (2h 43m 55s):
He

3 (2h 43m 55s):
Changed his name. His name was Jaime Gomez. But that was like,

4 (2h 43m 60s):
Nobody's gonna go for that.

3 (2h 44m 1s):
That sounds like a boxer under an undercard of a Canelo fight. Right. So he changed his name to Michelle and then he changed it again. When he moved to Texas. He moved to Texas because the cult awareness network was, they

4 (2h 44m 12s):
Were already on his ass

3 (2h 44m 13s):
Locking on them. They were on his ass. And after Waco, they were cracking down like e fucking enough of this shit After Waco. They were like, oh, this is crazy. These people have guns. There's fucking everybody's wives and they're stockpiling food and preparing for a war, a Christian war and shooting at cops.

4 (2h 44m 28s):
Yeah. Nothing scarier than that crowd. Ooh,

3 (2h 44m 30s):
That's scary. Yeah. When you get that apocalyptic preacher guy is willing lying there with a bullet singing a song for everybody. Yeah. He really believes. And that, that's a death cult. That's the, he wants to go down in a blaze of glory. He wants to be martyred.

4 (2h 44m 42s):
That's the scariest there.

3 (2h 44m 44s):
There's a scariness to that for sure. That's a weird thing. Huh? So many people go down that road of either starting one or believing in one. It's like a natural inclination that people have to just follow people.

4 (2h 44m 57s):
You know? All you have to do is look at what Jim Jones was able to pull off and, and people, a hundred people, complete, complete, complete control of thought. All those people to the point where they killed themselves.

3 (2h 45m 8s):
I thought that was the case. I think some of the people were forced into it. Now, now, now that I read into it more, it seems like some of the people, they

4 (2h 45m 15s):
Were forced, they weren't forced to go to Jonestown. No,

3 (2h 45m 17s):
But they didn't die. They may

4 (2h 45m 17s):
Have been forced

3 (2h 45m 18s):
To die. I used to think they all just died on purpose. But now I think a bunch of 'em were forced into doing it. You know, there's probably when when there's a mass death, there's probably gonna be a few reluctant people. Yeah.

4 (2h 45m 29s):
Right At the end going, yeah, I didn't know you were serious, but this serious,

3 (2h 45m 33s):
This dude, this dude. When the cult awareness network was after him, he moves to Austin and then has his followers build him that theater so he could dance in front of him. The videos online. Right. I

4 (2h 45m 42s):
Know that I,

3 (2h 45m 43s):
The videos are incredible. Yeah. I mean he is a really good dancer.

4 (2h 45m 46s):
Better, better than me. You know,

3 (2h 45m 48s):
He was really good. He's

4 (2h 45m 49s):
Beautiful too. Best one in his road. Yeah. Good looking guy. Until later when he had all the surgeries done. That's got

3 (2h 45m 54s):
Weird. He started getting old.

4 (2h 45m 55s):
Couldn't, couldn't

3 (2h 45m 56s):
Deal with it. You gotta

4 (2h 45m 57s):
Let H come man.

3 (2h 45m 58s):
Well, are you a guru or are you a dude who's hypnotizing people and butt fucking them? Right. Well this is how we find out what happens when you age.

4 (2h 46m 6s):
Right. Which is legal.

3 (2h 46m 8s):
He was doing everything above ground. don don't know if he had to pay taxes. Like, that's the question. Were they an established religion? Because the only person that I know of that it's actually, I I know people have done it, but the only person I personally know of is Alex Gray, the visionary artist from New York. Do you know who he is? No. He actually put together a real church. It's a church of his art. Is it the, was he called the Chapel of Sacred Mirrors? What does he call it again? Is that it? So he has this insane art structure that's in the woods in upstate New York. And Alex I know you've seen Alex Gray's work before. I'm sure I have. It's I'm sure it's all visionary psychedelic DMT type.

3 (2h 46m 49s):
Oh yeah. Things like that. Like this is his work show his building, Jamie. Because the build No, no, I'm saying the outside of the building because the outside of the building, like the front doors are all 3D printed works of his art. That's the inside. It's fucking incredible looking. That's what it looks like. Wow. That's what it looks like on the outside of it. I mean. And this is also 3D. This is, this is the, yeah, this is the CCGI. but it does look like that now, right? That's right. This is a picture of that with that thing on top. Right. You see, I would, I think there's some other perspectives. Maybe there's some other photos that'll show different ver there it is. Like this is, oh no, this is the bullshit version too. This is just what the front of their website. I think there is some imagery somewhere of the front, but whatever it is.

3 (2h 47m 34s):
Wow. Like this guy has a legit church. So he has actually gone through all the steps to create a church

4 (2h 47m 40s):
And they worship him.

3 (2h 47m 42s):
No,

4 (2h 47m 42s):
No. Well then

3 (2h 47m 44s):
No, no, no, no. I think they

4 (2h 47m 45s):
Just worship his art. I,

3 (2h 47m 47s):
I would be speaking outta turn if I said what they worship. I think it's more of the psychedelic experience in its most pure and loving form. If I had to, if I had to like boil it down to what they believe in, that's what Alex Gray believes in and all of his art. This is all like these sacred tryptamine type images. I mean it. He's like the only guy that I've ever seen that captures like certain aspects.

4 (2h 48m 12s):
You know this guy?

3 (2h 48m 13s):
Yeah. Yeah. He's been on the podcast before. He's really cool. No

4 (2h 48m 16s):
Shit.

3 (2h 48m 16s):
Yeah. Really cool guy. And his wife is really cool too. She's been on here as well. And like, look at all of his work. It's like, it's amazing stuff. God. But he's got a real church. This is the only guy that I know that's actually made a real church. But I'm like, oh, I believe him. I believe him. That's not a guy who's trying to, Joel Olsteen in. He is not trying to buy 98 Bentleys. Right. That's really who he is. He's just a real fascinating artist. There's a bunch of people that have Alex Gray tattoos. It's probably like one of the most common common. The gray-haired guy. Yeah. The gray-haired guy with the ponytail. Yeah. Yeah. Sweetheart of a guy.

4 (2h 48m 48s):
Wow.

3 (2h 48m 50s):
So that's an example of like what

4 (2h 48m 51s):
His, what's his tax status down there at the church of,

3 (2h 48m 53s):
That's a good question. Art. I think he got it through. I think it's a legitimate church, a nonprofit organization formed in 1996 to create a permanent public exhibition of the sacred mirrors. But I think they got like a tax exempt status. Yeah. File no. Established in 2008 as an interfaith church.

4 (2h 49m 14s):
Wow.

3 (2h 49m 15s):
Yeah. So from 2008, I guess they established it as national church.

4 (2h 49m 18s):
Don't you have to have a doctrine that,

3 (2h 49m 20s):
Well here it is. It says, I'm sure they do. I just don't know what it is. I provides unique creative events and workshops in a spiritual context. Like what is their, what is the, do they, they say what they believe this is, I'm on their vision page and we're just scrolling. Right. What is it? Okay, scroll down. What are we scroll above that. So I could read the text about

4 (2h 49m 37s):
That. I mean I would join just so I could hang out there. You know,

3 (2h 49m 40s):
It's a place of contemplation, worship for community, honoring the practice of art as a spiritual path. Wow. Cosm site and structure provides a living model of the ideals expressed through the inspiring artwork of the collection and the exhibitions, the writings of the founders and invited contributors. So they just take cool artists and their art and they show it to people and they're, their spirituality is based on creativity. Ah. And it's amazing art Man. His stuff is fantastic. Where is it? New York? Somewhere in New York. Like New York State. Oh, Wappinger Wappinger New York. Oh yeah.

4 (2h 50m 18s):
I think I'm in Syracuse. I, whenever it's anywhere near that,

3 (2h 50m 20s):
Just go there. Maybe he's got a course, how to start a

4 (2h 50m 22s):
Cult. I got, I got a bus.

3 (2h 50m 23s):
I, yeah. Just go down there and go look, I wanna start my own thing. The, you know, chapel of Sacred Heats and Hahas. What you,

4 (2h 50m 30s):
He may have classes

3 (2h 50m 31s):
Isn't isn't like comedy kind of a form of religion in some way.

4 (2h 50m 36s):
It is for us, Joe. It is, it is. You know, it's you, you, you, you, you find I mean, just making people laugh is a good thing to do. It's

3 (2h 50m 45s):
A great thing to

4 (2h 50m 46s):
Do. It is. It's fun. and I can't tell you how, how grateful people are. You know, that just how hard we make 'em laugh, you know, that they, it's just so much fun to do. If you can even remember, yeah. To be somebody that wasn't a comedian, watching a comedy show and how hard you can laugh at, you know, at that experience when, you know, just Jar. I remember I saw Seinfeld one time and in a comedy club, you know, and it, he had full blown chops and it was all, never heard it before. He beat me to death. I mean to death at the, whatever, the improv in Dallas, Texas. And I had this table right off the, it was my birthday and I'd only been doing standup for about six months.

4 (2h 51m 28s):
I wasn't in the show. Oh. That. They just gave me the chair that's, he was making 25,000 for the week. And we were like, no fucking way. Isn't that crazy? Nobody makes that much money in the world.

3 (2h 51m 39s):
Yeah. Doing standup at a club. And this is the nineties, right?

4 (2h 51m 44s):
What year is that? 80? It would've been 86.

3 (2h 51m 45s):
86. I saw Seinfeld for the first time in 88 before I did standup. Like right before I did standup, I was probably maybe 80, 87. I, it was at The Paradise, which was a comedy club in, it was like a, it was a big place that was connected to Stitches. So Stitches was the comedy club and that was small. I think it's Seat, it would seat about one 50 or so. And then The Paradise, which next door was bigger, but it only sat like maybe 500 people. I'm just guessing four or 500 people. And so Seinfeld was there and I took him with this girl that I was dating and just fucking cried. Couldn't believe how smooth he was. Yeah. Oh,

4 (2h 52m 24s):
So smooth. It was so smooth. Yeah.

3 (2h 52m 25s):
He was so fun to see

4 (2h 52m 27s):
Back then. You know, he was doing

3 (2h 52m 29s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 52m 30s):
All those sets, you know, all those sets every night. He's the one that said, you know, comic should be on stage. I heard him say it. Yeah. Every single day. And, and that, you know, yeah. He

3 (2h 52m 40s):
Is got a crazy workout.

4 (2h 52m 41s):
That's the reason I tried to stay on stage every single day was because what Seinfeld said.

3 (2h 52m 46s):
Yeah. There's something to that for sure. But I remember back then like thinking about doing Standable, like, oh my God, I could never do this. And then going to an open mic and going, oh, I can do this. Like, the difference between like watching crazy People Bomb, you're like, oh, oh yeah, Richard Jen said it best. He said terrible comedy gives people in inspiration to try comedy. That's what this, the purpose it serves.

4 (2h 53m 8s):
Right. I can for sure do that. He

3 (2h 53m 10s):
Was the guy I got to see live quite a few times. Yeah. But I got to see him before I, maybe I had just done an open mic or two, but I was sitting front row at Catch Rising Star in Cambridge. Yeah. And he was doing the weekend there. God damnit. It was

4 (2h 53m 22s):
Good. There was nobody better than him, I don't think, at his, at his peak. It was just so much power,

3 (2h 53m 28s):
So much writing. Yeah. So smooth and so many tags. And it's just like, just a consummate professional. Consummate professional. Like, he was a just a joke writing machine. And he could take any premise, any premise and turn into a closing bit. Right.

4 (2h 53m 43s):
It's crazy. and it was, that's what it was like, it was like watching somebody that had nothing but closing bits. You know? That's crazy how hard you laughed at this show.

3 (2h 53m 49s):
I've told this before, but I'll tell it again just 'cause it's so crazy. East Side Comedy Club in Long Island. I had, I went there at the don don't know if I was there on Sunday or I was there after Jenny's shows were done. So when I got there, the fucking host was depressed and I'm, we were all talking about like, what's the matter? He goes, Jenny did a different hour every show. Jesus. He goes, he did two different hours on Friday and then two different hours on Saturday and he fucking killed. And the guy was like, I wanna quit comedy. Like, what am I doing? What the fuck am I doing? This guy just did four different hours and murdered.

4 (2h 54m 21s):
That's crazy.

3 (2h 54m 22s):
Crazy.

4 (2h 54m 23s):
I should quit.

3 (2h 54m 25s):
You watch something like that, like I mean, he was like, he just, people just forgot. That's one of those ones. Like I know Chris Rock gets up

4 (2h 54m 32s):
To him. Some, some people, you know, they inspire people to quit. Well

3 (2h 54m 37s):
He, he definitely would raise the bar. He definitely would raise the bar. His, I, I saw him kill at the Comedy Works in Montreal. Remember that little room? That little tiny room upstairs? Yeah. Oh yeah. I saw him kill up there talking about buying a Corvette. How do you make that funny? How do you make buying a Corvette funny?

4 (2h 54m 56s):
I have no idea.

3 (2h 54m 57s):
It was hilarious. He was murdering, he was a murderer. He could anything, any subject he could find, find it. He'd find the angle.

4 (2h 55m 4s):
Yeah. I remember the one thing he did that it was just about a look in his eye that whenever he, all he did was move his eyeball and he, and he would show you how far he moved his eyeball and that's how the fight started with his wife. And, but it was just, it real insightful and it was so subtle that it, you know, it was just so expertly fucking done that it just killed me.

3 (2h 55m 26s):
Yeah. He's one of

4 (2h 55m 27s):
The greats. He killed me.

3 (2h 55m 28s):
Yeah. He was one of the greats. I gotta write something down before I forget. Yeah. It's, it's just so interesting to think about the guys that inspired you when you first started doing standup. You know, when you first started, like what that was like to see someone who was really good at this thing that was just like, it was just a weird foggy dream. And the first couple times you go on stage, like, how does anyone ever really become a professional and then you watch a master go up and murder. Right. And you're like, holy shit.

4 (2h 56m 0s):
And then you realize he's nobody. Yeah.

3 (2h 56m 2s):
You

4 (2h 56m 2s):
Know that there Yeah. There are guys that make him look like a, you know, like he doesn't know what he's doing. Yeah. But you know, I, there you kinda have a realm of comedy of what you can see and, and, and, and in Boston that would've been a much bigger glimpse than you would get in Arlington, Texas. Oh yeah. You know, you, you got whatever Head Ladders came through the funny bone chain and they were all great. You know, they all killed everybody. And, and nobody really went on to do her tremendous businesses like Foxworthy and me and Dan and

3 (2h 56m 36s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 56m 38s):
The, the blue collar boys. There wasn't a lot of guys

3 (2h 56m 41s):
That Well, you guys opened the door for a lot of new guys that came after you though. A lot of guys were inspired by that for sure.

4 (2h 56m 46s):
I hope

3 (2h 56m 47s):
So. But it's like, you need a community, you know, and Boston had a crazy community. They had a community of assassins that were local guys and then new people were coming in every week that were like big national headliners. So you would have all these murderous local guys and then do Marrero would fly in for a weekend. You know, bill Hicks would fly in for a weekend. They had all the like road killers. Like whenever a big national act was killing it on the road, they would stop at Nick's comedy stop and we'd all watch 'em. So they had the whole thing. It was like a, a perfect training ground for learning how to do standup.

4 (2h 57m 19s):
Yeah. They never gave a fuck about me in Boston until I, until I got bigger, you know, than

3 (2h 57m 24s):
Yeah. But that's always how it is. There was too many people there.

4 (2h 57m 27s):
Yeah. They, that's what they had guys. It was like Denver, you know, Denver never gave a fuck about me, but I would look at their list of headliners and go, you know, we got Louis Anderson, they got all these, you know, big name fucking comics and I wasn't a big name fucking comic. and I didn't, and I didn't belong on that list. So

3 (2h 57m 42s):
Yeah. It's just, it is what it is. But you have to have a scene like that, you know, that's where, that's where like talent emerges from. And that's what's been really fucking cool about being able to do that here is that, to take this place that had a scene, there was an Austin comedy scene. The reason why I came here is there was already a club here. It went under during the pandemic. Right. but it, it still existed. Sure. and it was always a fun place to work. And then to have all of us, you were here first, so you were the one before I The pandemic even hit You were already here. Yeah. And you were telling me, I fucking love it. I was like, damnit Ron. White loves it. It's gotta be something to it. Right. And you were like, it shit, I'm reasonable. I fucking love it. I fucking love it. It's not too big, not too small.

3 (2h 58m 22s):
Everybody's cool. My God, damnit and I had already thought about it before because of on it, you know, because the, the business is here and I'd have to come down to do stuff occasionally anyway. and I was always coming down to do standup anyway. and I always loved being down here. but it wasn't until the pandemic and it wasn't until you getting on stage that one time when you get on stage and you haven't, you hadn't got on stage in fucking forever. And you grabbed me by the shoulder. You grabbed me. Yeah. You go, we are gonna fucking do this. Whatever it takes. Yeah. You open up that class. Right.

4 (2h 58m 52s):
I meant it too. You know,

3 (2h 58m 53s):
I know. You did.

4 (2h 58m 54s):
I met and still do to this fucking day. I'm behind that a hundred percent. You know, my effort and I talk about that club on the, you know, on the road and my shows and just how much it, you know, how much it means to me and how cool it is.

3 (2h 59m 6s):
It means it to me too. Yeah. and it means to me because you're there too. It's, it's everybody together in this is a, a really exciting comradery.

4 (2h 59m 12s):
It's a, it's a great tribe. And and it's fun. And we're, that's, we're blessed to have it. Yeah. It's very cool. Yeah.

3 (2h 59m 18s):
Very cool. But you saying that to me that day, I mean I was gonna do it anyway For sure, but that was an extra fucking turbo gear. That was an extra kick in the pants. I was like, let's go. I made some extra phone calls, try to close it up, figure out what the problem was. It was just, we had a big adjustment from moving from the old place to the new place. That was a big pain in the ass because we had spent a considerable amount of time and effort, you know, architects were involved Right. And drawing up plans and people had gone to look at it and then, and when it all fell through, they're like, fuck, we gotta start from scratch. Yeah. But, and

4 (2h 59m 51s):
Everybody blamed me.

3 (2h 59m 53s):
Ah, well people didn't believe it. That's what was funny. But that's also, it makes it more fun when it does open. 'cause people are like, he's never gonna do it. Like, okay, just sit back. Yeah.

4 (3h 0m 2s):
Right.

3 (3h 0m 3s):
I've got some crazy plans.

4 (3h 0m 4s):
If I, if I hear you say you're gonna do something, I just, how long is that gonna be? It's gonna happen quick. Yeah. He just,

3 (3h 0m 11s):
I would've hap it would've happened quick. We would've had this place open probably inside of a year.

4 (3h 0m 17s):
It, it was perfect the way, way it did happen. A lot of anticipation from all of us and it made us all nervous.

3 (3h 0m 24s):
Know the fact that even with all that anticipation, it's still gets an A. Right? It still gets in there. Sure. Does I know it's my place, but shut the fuck up. Yeah. That place is perfect. Yeah, it's

4 (3h 0m 34s):
Perfect.

3 (3h 0m 34s):
The place is perfect. We made it perfect and we got lucky that we got the right people and the right architect. Shout out to Richard, the people that put it together did an amazing job. And it's also like the vibe there. It's so strong. It's very fun. It's real positive.

4 (3h 0m 49s):
Well, you know, we all feel like it's ours. And even though you, you pay all the bills and shit,

3 (3h 0m 54s):
You know, well it, it pays the bills now.

4 (3h 0m 56s):
They, so, and you know, people don't, don't know know that 80% of the door from the goes to goes to the comics. And so there's also no opportunity for a comic to make money. That kind of money in a local gig at home, anywhere on the fucking planet earth. That opportunity does not exist. Well

3 (3h 1m 13s):
And it's not, I would never do it. If I was gonna do it for money, I would never do it that way. That's crazy. Right.

4 (3h 1m 17s):
No, it wouldn't make any sense. You're

3 (3h 1m 19s):
Making less money.

4 (3h 1m 20s):
Yeah. I decided to hit in the comedy club business. Oh wow.

3 (3h 1m 24s):
I didn't get in the comedy club business. I got in no You didn't the business of making comedy and, and having a place for comedians that was the business was Right. My idea was set up the ideal spot. And what's the ideal spot? Well, the ideal spot was that the comedians would get the bulk of the money because the comedians doing all of the work. They're the ones that have to come up with the jokes. They're the, if we don't have the comedians, we're just selling drinks. Right. Like, this is nonsense. Right. So like, it's obvious like what people are there for. I knew that when I started getting a percentage of the door. Right. I knew how it works. But like, that should be that way regardless. Like that's the real relationship. You're selling what we do. Right. You shouldn't be getting 80% of the money, 80% of the money should be going to the comedians.

3 (3h 2m 7s):
That's crazy. There's so much money from booze. You sell money and alcohol. You sell money and there's still money.

4 (3h 2m 13s):
You can tell the guy that owns the place doesn't give a shit about it. Turning a profit.

3 (3h 2m 17s):
My idea is just don't, don't lose money. Speak

4 (3h 2m 20s):
Even. You know, I'm a, I'm a hundred percent on a board. Yeah. You know, it's great's

3 (3h 2m 25s):
That's greatest. And it's, and if you do it that way, then it's really like deeply in, there's a commitment to this idea. Like, we're all committed to this idea. Just making the most fun possible, the most comedy possible. Do our best. Have a great community. Yeah. Have a great tribe. Have a great vibe. We're all feeding off each other and talking shit to each other and having a good old time in the back. And then it fuels us to go on stage. We're watching each other from the balcony. It's exciting. Yeah, it is. It's very exciting. It's fun.

4 (3h 2m 51s):
It's very exciting. It's the funnest thing ever.

3 (3h 2m 53s):
I'm very happy You're a part of

4 (3h 2m 54s):
It, my brother. Thank Hey brother. Thank you. Thank you. It's, it's great. I love being part of the fucking team, you know,

3 (3h 2m 60s):
I love you having you here man. I love everybody. I'm gonna,

4 (3h 3m 3s):
In fact, I'm gonna headline the room Tuesday night, I think the 10 o'clock show. Beautiful. Are you doing the seven o'clock show? Yeah,

3 (3h 3m 8s):
I'm doing a seven o'clock show. I'll

4 (3h 3m 10s):
Come

3 (3h 3m 10s):
Do it. Okay. Alright. Beautiful. Alright. Alright man. I'll see you Tuesday. Alright, love you man. Love to. Bye everybody. Bye.