0 (2s):
Joe

1 (2s):
Rogan podcast. Check out.

2 (4s):
The. Joe Rogan. Experience

3 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night. All day.

0 (13s):
Yannis Pappas.

1 (14s):
Joe Rogan. Yannis. Pappas. Can you Papa? How are you my brother? I'm good. How you doing? What's

4 (19s):
The fuck's cracking?

1 (20s):
I'm doing good, man. Just enjoying Austin.

4 (23s):
Are you enjoying at Freedom?

1 (25s):
I'm enjoying at Freedom, yes. This

4 (27s):
Is the freedom. Yes, there's freedom here. This is the Wild West.

1 (30s):
Yes. I'm enjoying it. I'm enjoying it. I'm eating. I went to Swear Day. Oh, that's a good spot. It was incredible.

4 (36s):
Yeah, that's a good spot.

1 (37s):
I think it's the best Mexican I ever had.

4 (39s):
It's very good. Yeah. There's a lot of good Mexican out here.

1 (42s):
Yeah. But that

4 (42s):
That's, that's a good spot

1 (43s):
Though. That was good. Yeah. Yeah. And Of course hit the Terry Bees on Martin Luther King Day, so it was empty. It was nice.

4 (49s):
Swart day. You have the added benefit of being around people with masks. That's like a east, east Austin.

1 (55s):
I didn't, I haven't seen any masks. You haven't seen any? No. I think, well, I did in Vancouver. I was in Vancouver before this. Oh, they're wearing,

4 (1m 2s):
Yeah, they Were they still going? They never, never

1 (1m 4s):
Stopped. No, they're still going. Yeah.

4 (1m 5s):
Yeah. It's wild. There's a San Francisco like town hall meeting and they, they passed a vote. They stop for a ceasefire and Palestine. I saw it. Yeah. Yeah. And so they're all masked up and they're dancing around and they got blue hair and somebody made a caption that this is literally South Park. This is literally an episode of South Park. Yeah. and it, they look like fucking complete maniacs left in this worn, torn, shattered hull of a city. Yeah. Whatever's left. It's filled with human shit. Yeah. And tents everywhere. And they're dancing around that they've stopped the ceasefire and Palestine. Yeah. We voted for it.

4 (1m 45s):
Yeah. Stop. Stopped it.

1 (1m 47s):
They solved it in Oakland.

4 (1m 49s):
Like as if Benjamin Netanyahu's paying attention. Right.

1 (1m 53s):
Like, that's gonna work. It's gonna,

4 (1m 54s):
Oh, I guess I'll stop now.

1 (1m 55s):
Yeah. You stop traffic on the way to the airport in New York. And that'll do it.

4 (1m 59s):
Yeah, that does it. That generally does it.

1 (2m 1s):
That's what, that's, that's what Netanyahu was waiting for. He is like, all right, now I've, now I've, I've seen the air in my ways now. Now I gotta pull back. Now I gotta pull back. I

4 (2m 10s):
Did go a little too far. Lemme

1 (2m 11s):
Back up. Yeah. Lemme back it up right

4 (2m 12s):
Now, dude. They're stopping traffic. Yeah. This is serious.

1 (2m 14s):
I saw in Austin, I saw three people on the overpass just holding up a free Palestine thing. And I'm going like, I

4 (2m 22s):
Bet those people have amazing productive lives. And they're not crazy at all.

1 (2m 26s):
Yeah, not at all. No, they got nothing. They got, they got a full schedule of things to do and they took a lot of time outta their schedule to stand on top of the highway.

4 (2m 33s):
They're super healthy. They're really into mindfulness. They're, they're on the, the ball every day. They get everything done.

1 (2m 40s):
Every one of them, every one of them has an alert for what they have to do next on their very busy schedule.

4 (2m 47s):
Free pals done. I wasn't gonna

1 (2m 49s):
Those people just until

4 (2m 50s):
I saw your, your

1 (2m 51s):
Banner. Yeah. Until the banner came up. Yeah. Those people are just perpetuating the situation over there. It's like the whole, is it right or wrong thing? It's like, it's obviously wrong. Humans have always been wrong when it comes to that. It's always been about power. Who's got more power and who has less? It's,

4 (3m 8s):
It's all, it's very multi-layered. That's the thing about any international conflict. You can look at the mainstream media narrative. You know, they did this, then they did that. But then it's like Ukraine and Russia. Like you say, oh my god, Russia invaded Ukraine. This is horrible. And that's most people's natural reaction to it. And then when you go, wait a minute, was there a rule? Did they make an agreement to not push arms closer to Russia? Did they consistently violate that agreement? Did they, were they trying to move Ukraine and I was reading about them trying to move Ukraine into nato? Like, what, what, what are you, what are you a Putin supporter? Right. Are you a Putin supporter? Like, no, wait a minute. Isn't this a very multifaceted, super complex international conflict that really is about a, a lot of things.

4 (3m 58s):
It's, it's not just about Russia and Ukraine. It's about nato. It's about nuclear arms being pushed closer to a superpower. It's like,

1 (4m 7s):
Yeah, there's

4 (4m 8s):
More to it.

1 (4m 9s):
There's more to it. There's more to

4 (4m 10s):
All of

1 (4m 10s):
It. And usually that's why war breaks out, is because there's so, it's so multilayered. And then it gets to that breaking point. And

4 (4m 17s):
It's just wild that they could still pull off war today War, which essentially like hijacking resources or controlling parcels of land. It's weird that they could still talk people into that today. 'cause it's kind of an old hustle. It's almost like old radio. Yeah. Like it's, you know, it's such an old hustle that you can get people to believe these people hate you for your freedom or whatever it is. And then you go over, oh, let's fucking shuttle up and go kick their ass. Yeah. It's kind of amazing, given what we know about the true nature of conflicts and how so many things are manipulated behind the scenes to force people into actual physical conflict.

4 (4m 59s):
And then there's generals that sit in air conditioned offices and they move their pieces around the board. Like chess pieces and human lives. Yeah.

1 (5m 8s):
Yeah. And they don't fight. They're never in the front. Never. I don't even think Alexander the Great was in the front. I don't buy it.

4 (5m 15s):
Well, he didn't live long. You know, he didn't live like great Alexander the Great, he died like, he's like 40.

1 (5m 19s):
Yeah. Didn't they die young back then? Oh yeah. And he died of like, some sickness. He didn't die from like a battle wound. I

4 (5m 25s):
Think probably all died of sickness.

1 (5m 27s):
Can you? But can you survive if you're in the front? Back then, was it like a human meat factory?

4 (5m 32s):
No. You're not gonna survive. It was in the back. Most likely. You're not gonna survive. I, I feel like back then, like sickness probably really kicked in when we started gathering together and throwing our shit out the window. Or actual shit. Like human shit. Like if you think about the, the cities of ancient times before there was plumbing. Do you know how horrific? Oh, history must have been.

1 (5m 54s):
History smelled. Yeah.

4 (5m 56s):
We don't remember. No, we were there. We assume every place is like target. Yeah. We assume every place is like a a, you know, a fucking rest stop on the highway. You can go in and take a shit. No. Yeah. No. People were shitting out windows. They were throwing their shit in buckets. According

5 (6m 13s):
To Wikipedia, he was a very productive 20-year-old. 20 something.

4 (6m 18s):
He was 20

5 (6m 19s):
When he took over as king.

4 (6m 21s):
Whoa.

1 (6m 22s):
Yeah. He conquered the world. He was in his early twenties.

4 (6m 24s):
What a gangster. Look at this. By the age of 20, okay. He succeeded his father Philip II to the throne and threw 3, 3, 6 BC at the age of 20. And spent most of his ruling years conducting a lengthy military campaign through Western Asia and Egypt. By the time, by the age of 30, he had created one of the largest empires in history. Holy shit. Stretching from Greece to Northwestern India. He was undefeated in battle and widely considered. He won of history's greatest and most successful military commanders. And wasn't he also gay?

5 (6m 57s):
Well then there's the, he's

4 (6m 58s):
Bi. Was he bi? That

1 (6m 59s):
Was the way back then. Yeah.

5 (7m 1s):
He's a,

4 (7m 2s):
Is that what he was? Yeah.

5 (7m 3s):
Student of Aristotle. And there was, we've read that question about how those relationships

4 (7m 8s):
Tutored by Yeah. Those questions, those relationships were uncomfortable.

1 (7m 14s):
Those guys

4 (7m 15s):
All fucked Those kids.

1 (7m 16s):
They had eunuchs.

4 (7m 18s):
There was those Yeah. Yeah. They had eunuchs and then they just had young boys. Yeah. What did it say about the Aristotle thing though? Sorry, Adam, can you go back to that quote where it was, I actually looked, clicked something in. Oh, it's okay. The bottom of the page. What a huge page. That guy did a lot of shit. It says, by the age of 16 until the age of 16, rather, Alexander was two By 16 he was too old. AOL was like, get outta here. Oh fuck Yeah. Bring me a young boy. In 3, 3, 3, 3 35 bc Shortly after his assumption of kingship over Macedon, he campaigned in the Balkans and reasserted to control over the, how do you say that? Thra. Thrace. Yeah. Thra. And parts of Ria.

1 (7m 53s):
Iria.

4 (7m 54s):
Iria Iria. You should be saying this. Yeah. This is your native tongue. This is basically, I went to Greece this summer. How'd you like it? Amazing. Yeah. Your people did some wild shit, dude. Yeah,

1 (8m 4s):
We did.

4 (8m 4s):
Your people did some wild

1 (8m 6s):
Shit. We did.

4 (8m 7s):
When you, you're in a place

1 (8m 7s):
Where, but like Doug Stanhope said, I didn't do anything. I Right. I was on

4 (8m 11s):
The couch. You're people, I'm saying you're people, your team. Yeah. You know, if the Lakers win, you didn't throw a ball. My tribe, we won. You know?

1 (8m 16s):
Yeah. But the only thing we didn't do is create an empire. 'cause we're too busy in fighting. Which is H. Which is typically Greek.

4 (8m 22s):
Well, you know, you can't do everything. Can't do everything. Did a lot more than a lot of other cultures. 2,500 years ago.

1 (8m 29s):
Did a lot with mathematics, philosophy.

4 (8m 32s):
Democracy.

1 (8m 33s):
Democracy. Yeah. We did a lot.

4 (8m 35s):
Yeah. A lot with drugs too.

1 (8m 36s):
A lot with drugs. A lot with pedophilia. Have

4 (8m 39s):
You ever read that book? The Immortality Key? No. It, it's about the Illucian mysteries. It's this guy Brian Murrow rescue. And Brian's been a guest on the podcast before. And he's a scholar who is like a straight laced guy. He is never, doesn't do drugs, nothing. And he, through all of his course of study, they were trying to figure out like what they were doing in these illian mysteries. Like why were people going from all over the world to have these experiences? And what were these experiences? So they recently discovered that inside these pottery vessels that they used to contain wine and beer in, they found ergot. And ergot is a very potent psychedelic.

4 (9m 21s):
It's a, it's like a fungus. It's a, I think it's akin to LSD. And so they're very, at the very least, we're taking that in this one spot. And what they believe is that all of these like transcendent experiences, they had these, the Ellucian mysteries, they get together and figure out how to solve the world and let people vote and all, all that wacky, that's all. I'm tripping balls. This is my idea. Shit. And it's literally the birthplace of democracy. It's literally how the world changed for the better. And your people were doing it 2,500 years ago. And you can walk in the same spots where they walked. You could see the buildings that they built.

4 (10m 1s):
It's weird. It's weird when shit is that old. Yeah. And you can just walk on it. Yeah. Like the Parthenon, you just walk around.

1 (10m 7s):
Yeah. And you can, you, you can marvel at how durable, what they built this.

4 (10m 13s):
Yes. 2000 years is

1 (10m 15s):
So long. There'll be no. Yeah. In 2000 years from now, you're not gonna see any strip malls still standing there

4 (10m 20s):
Built like shit. They'll literally be dust. Yeah. They'll be dust. They

1 (10m 24s):
Built things really well back then. I, I think a hundred a great effort too. Yeah.

4 (10m 29s):
To do that. Like the kind of precision that's involved in the, in the Parthenon when you're walking around it and you see how all the stone is cut and how it lines up and how massive the columns are and how beautifully symmetric it is. It's so smooth and clean. And these people didn't have

6 (10m 48s):
Engines. No, it's crazy. There was no engine. This was all done by hand.

4 (10m 54s):
Yeah.

6 (10m 55s):
It was all dink dink dink slavery.

1 (10m 58s):
Dink

4 (10m 58s):
Dink dink. Oh, craftsmanship. Yeah. I mean you could, you weren't just getting the cruise of people, you're getting artisans. Yeah. You probably worked against your will. Yeah.

1 (11m 6s):
But you know, to move those big rocks and stuff. Yeah. It's

4 (11m 9s):
A hundred percent. Who the fuck knows how they did that? What the hell were they doing back then? They did some wild shit back then. When we think about like human ingenuity. Oh God. We're missing so much of like, they didn't leave. Like, here's a book on how we did it. This is where we got the rocks. This is how we cut 'em. You know, this is the best way to move 'em. If you move 'em this way, they'll fall on you and you kill a few guys. You know? This is what we figured out over time. Yeah.

1 (11m 35s):
Yeah. It's crazy to think about. and I agree with you. I think it was drugs that opened people's minds up to like think about.

4 (11m 43s):
Yeah. It gave them a completely different perspective. Like Carl Sagan once said that about marijuana. I'm paraphrasing him, but essentially he was saying that it offers you a perspective that's not available without the drug. Yeah.

1 (11m 58s):
That's why I think mushrooms are getting popular for depression. Right. It sort of takes you off those grooves that are created by the neuro connections. Yeah. Just gives you a new perspective.

4 (12m 7s):
I wonder how much I mean. There's certainly different kinds of depression. There's depression that's clearly is something wrong chemically with some people. But how much of it is just from not being healthy? How much of it not being healthy with your body and not being healthy with where your life is going? Like where your, what kind of job you have, what you want to do with your life.

1 (12m 29s):
That's gotta be some of it.

4 (12m 31s):
The friendships you have. What does you have? All your friends suck. Yeah.

1 (12m 34s):
That's gotta be a big part of it. and I think trauma. I think childhood trauma. I think childhood trauma kind of can can make you depressed. Yeah. For sure.

4 (12m 43s):
Yeah, for sure.

1 (12m 44s):
I think that

4 (12m 44s):
Especially abuse. Yeah. Abuse seems like the one that people have the hardest time shaking was 'cause it's not that they weren't even, it wasn't even that they were ignored. That someone preyed on them. Yeah. And they gave, they have no self-worth. They're beaten you. They have no self-worth.

1 (13m 1s):
And they know that the younger, the abuse or the neglect happened, the more of an imprint. Yeah. It leaves. 'cause your brain is forming and

4 (13m 10s):
It's fascinating stuff, man.

1 (13m 12s):
But we have neuroplasticity and you can go to therapy and EDMR is something I'm doing and it's incredible. It's the only thing I've ever done that sort of works.

4 (13m 23s):
What is that?

1 (13m 24s):
EDMR was invented by Francine Shapiro, like in the eighties accidentally. She's a psychologist and now it's become sort of the gold standard for trauma treatment and PTSD and like vet hospitals and stuff. And what it is, is it's eye ed, it's eye movement. Desensitization. Desensitization and reprocessing. And so they move

4 (13m 50s):
Your eyes. So it involves moving your eyes in a very specific way while you process traumatic memories. Yeah,

1 (13m 55s):
I'm doing it now. Whoa. It's crazy.

4 (13m 58s):
Oh my God. You're hacking your brain.

1 (13m 59s):
You hack your brain and you get into your subconscious, like your REM sleep state, and then you reprocess the memories. And when you're there, you start having vivid memories. And then when you're done, memories start flying in outta nowhere. Whoa.

4 (14m 13s):
Yeah. How did you find out about this? This is

1 (14m 15s):
Wild. It was sort of, it was interesting. I was in la right? So I, you know, I have early childhood trauma and then I've had some traumatic things happen to me later in life. And then the panic attacks started after I got shot when I was in my early twenties. I didn't know what they were back then. Like I just didn't know what they were. So I'd just be having these panic attacks in the train, just going like, what is happening to me? So I've been dealing with it for like 20 years and it would go away for periods. I'd have great periods and then it would come back and, and after I had kids, I think I called you. I did, I spoke to you once and you were very helpful. But after I had kids, it sort of triggered a lot of these feelings that would come up outta nowhere and sadness.

1 (14m 57s):
I'd be looking at my kids and I'd get sad, I'd be playing with them. I'd get sad and I didn't understand it. And then I'd be in a hotel room and I on the road and I'd just start like panicking. And I'd be like, what is this? And so I was talking to my friend Tracy Zo, she's, she's a comic in New York. She's funny. And she's one of these Italian girls who's just got a guy for everything. She's just, you ask auntie, she's like, I I know somebody. So she asked, she was like, how are you? and I just answered honestly. I was like, ah, I'm, I did. and I gave her like a paragraph and she sounds, she was like, it sounds like you didn't feel safe as a kid. She was like, let me get you in touch with this person who I'm friends with, who does EDMR.

1 (15m 38s):
And then I got in touch with this therapist and she's incredible. And I started the EDMR journey and it's been, it's the only thing I've done. And EDMR has a beginning, middle, and end. It's not like, you know, it, it's not like Adam finite. It just goes on forever. It's like you're there to reprocess this trauma. And

4 (15m 56s):
So do you do it at a specific place?

1 (15m 58s):
I do it, I do it Zoom. I love to zoom. You Zoom.

4 (15m 60s):
Yeah. So you zoom with someone who guides you through it. Is that how it works?

1 (16m 3s):
Yeah.

4 (16m 4s):
And you do it how often?

1 (16m 6s):
I'm doing it now twice a week. But you can do it once a

4 (16m 8s):
Week. And how long is each session?

1 (16m 10s):
Hour? She'll go longer sometimes though. Wild.

4 (16m 13s):
So what is, what do you, do you feel like the chemicals moving around in your brain while you're doing this? Yeah. Like

1 (16m 20s):
Yeah. You do. and it, that's a big part of it is identifying the, the trauma in the body and how it affects the body. There's a book called The Body Keeps the Score by, I think his name is Bessel. He's a psychiatrist and he's, he's responsible for all these trauma centers all over the country. And so this,

4 (16m 39s):
This guy is doing it to this lady right now. Yeah. He's going back and forth with his fingers and she's following his fingers. And so she's supposed to be thinking about traumatic memories. So then

1 (16m 48s):
He'll bring up, he'll take her back through the fir The first phase is like identifying the trauma. So it's a lot of talk therapy. So you kind of, you know, talk a lot, talk a lot, talk a lot. And then the therapist gets the idea of what you need to go back and reprocess and new things will come up when you go back and, and, and then you'll reprocess it. It's not just hands. You can do, you can follow a ball, you can hold the buzzers in each hand. It's about stimulating both sides of your brain.

4 (17m 15s):
Yeah. What's

1 (17m 16s):
Happening in mental health now is so fascinating because when you parallel it with like, what happened in medicine, right? Like, we used to treat the symptom, right? So if someone had a fever, they treated the fever, but they didn't know what the cause was. So they put you in cold water or boiling water, whatever they did. And then they found out about viruses and bacteria. So they started treating the cause. Now in mental health, you're, you're starting to see that revolution because of, you know, the advances in neuroscience where they can look at the brain and they can actually see, you know, what parts are responsible for what, where trauma shows up in the brain. They just did ano a recent study, it was a big study about how trauma is doesn't, traumatic memories don't come back as memories.

1 (17m 59s):
They come back, they light up in the part of your brain as if it's happening now, which makes sense. We knew that because you know, when Vietnam vets start bugging out and they're in the supermarket or whatever, but it, they can actually see it now in the brain that the, the brain is processing it as it's happening now. So, you know, converging neuroscience and psychology and all the things that they've known from all these different advances, and it's, it seems to be in a place now where trauma is becoming one of the things that they focus on the most. Like early childhood trauma or traumatic events in war. Obviously we know that that's, you know, a big, that's the, the specific cause of what is bothering those people, you know, is what they've experienced.

1 (18m 46s):
And so now they're targeting the trauma, but they have ways to treat the trauma with EDMR, with brain spotting. It's called, you know, a whole bunch of these

4 (18m 57s):
Tactics. That's really fascinating. Yeah. It's really fascinating when you think of, like, I had this guy on the podcast yesterday, Joe Piper, he's a MMA fighter for the UFC. And he had a terrible childhood. Terrible fucking horrible beatings. Just constant beat. It was just like heartbreaking to hear the story. But you gotta, it's just fascinating, like, as a human being, like whoever you are, when you listening to this right now, you are the accumulation of your processing of every experience you've ever had. As much as we like to claim autonomy and we think on our own, and we kind of do, and there's de like, again, there's definitely chemical problems. There's definitely people that just have a genetic defect.

4 (19m 37s):
Something just like some people have diseases of all sorts of other parts of their body. They get diseases in the brain that's fucking for real. A hundred percent. But you are basically just an end product of experiences and your interpretation of those experiences and the legend, the lessons and the, the, the way you've contextualized all those experiences and they're all in your head. And that's your map of the world. That's your map of the world. So if you're in San Francisco, yay. We freed past, like their map of the world is fucked. Like their experiences, like what, what's got them to 20, 24, January 18th, whatever it is, is this result sucks.

4 (20m 19s):
Like this result sucks. Like this is terrible. Like, you guys are outta your fucking mind. You're wasting your time. You're, there's needles on your street. You guys are outta your fucking mind. What did you, what do you do? This, this result sucks. But you, those people are, they could have been in fucking Wyoming, like hardworking ranchers. The same human could have been like a, a salt of the earth, fucking Kevin Costner, Yellowstone looking motherfucker. It could have been the same. It's just your experiences. Yeah, yeah. It's just, just what do you, what shapes you? What directions do you go in? What, when do you get pushed down? When do you get lifted up? Who gives you a hug? Who pushes you away? Yeah. And how does this, how does this play out?

1 (20m 58s):
Yeah. don don't think a lot of people know themselves because you gotta do all this work to know yourself because your brain protects you in so many ways that you're unaware of like, yeah, your brain will fuck. They know in neuroscience, like your brain, usually when it's healthy, works in concert and sends information to different parts of your brain to process it. But when you have trauma or a chemical problem or whatever it is, it doesn't work well. And in traumatic experiences, your li your, your neocortex shuts off and your limbic turns on. And that's a, there's a survival reason for that, right? So if you're in a moment of fight or flight, you don't wanna start reasoning, right? You don't wanna go, like you start philosophizing, you're just emotional.

1 (21m 40s):
You're dealing with your survival reptile brain. And so it actually shuts off. So people who have like panic and anxiety, it's hard to reason your way out of it because that part of your brain is shut down.

4 (21m 52s):
Now imagine you have panic and anxiety already and you're already experiencing depression and then they prescribe two medication and one of the side effects of that medication is suicide. Suicidal ideation, ideations. Yeah. Yeah. That's, imagine being that person and forced with that choice like this may help you or you might just,

1 (22m 19s):
Yeah.

4 (22m 20s):
Yeah. Well,

1 (22m 21s):
Medication. Yeah. It just,

4 (22m 22s):
That's a wild one, man. Yeah.

1 (22m 24s):
Medication is,

4 (22m 25s):
It can help you.

1 (22m 26s):
It can help you,

4 (22m 26s):
But it can, you could also, it can hurt you. You could go sliding down a hill and there's no trees to grab.

1 (22m 32s):
But every study they do still, till now, medication is not the end all cure. Like, it just doesn't, it can numb it, it can help you. It's definitely good if you're in like a jam. Like if you're really in a bad spot, it can, but when you do the medication, that's when you gotta start doing the work. You can't just do the medication as an end to fix it.

4 (22m 53s):
But the medication is interfering with the natural system. You know what, I think it's, I think it's gonna be in the future, medication is gonna be like, for mental illness, it's gonna be like leeches. Like, oh, they used to use leeches. They didn't know any better. Oh. They used to just put medicine into people just to give 'em chemicals. Oh, they didn't fix the brain? No, they just did chemicals. Right. Why didn't they do the rewiring? All they had to figured it out yet. Yeah. But that, that the, the fucked up thing is that trauma that you experience as a child or those bad? Well the trauma's a, a very overused word. Some people experience real trauma. So lemme say this, the, the negative experiences that you've had, both as a, an adult and as a child, those also made you who you are if you're happy with the result.

4 (23m 39s):
Like if you're happy with how you're living, you're happy with what you're doing. Those things were important to go through. Unfortunately. It's

1 (23m 46s):
Just, well, it's nothing you could do about 'em. It happened. Right. You gotta make the best outta 'em. And a lot, you know, a lot of people do make the best out of 'em and turn them into something a lot of

4 (23m 54s):
People do. Yeah, it is possible.

1 (23m 55s):
And trauma's not necessarily the thing that happened to you, it's how you react to the thing that happened to you. I think. And everyone's different. Everyone has a different level of sensitivity and circumstance and genetic code and Yeah. So I can't really judge anyone's drama. You

4 (24m 9s):
Know? It's so you, you could never know how another person feels. Yeah. You just can't know. You just can't know. Unless you're on TikTok, then you could know.

1 (24m 19s):
But yeah, I mean if the human race has a chance, I think people need to start looking inward. Why am I really doing what I'm doing? Who am who am I really? What is this really about?

4 (24m 28s):
Also, this is so temporary. We're treating it like it's permanent.

1 (24m 31s):
It's so

4 (24m 32s):
Temporary. We're treating, you're treating your, your own life. Like it's permanent and it's so temporary.

1 (24m 37s):
I've noticed a lot of successful friends I have and a lot of successful people are so scared to just be happy because I think there's like this deep fear of losing it.

4 (24m 46s):
Yeah. That's real.

1 (24m 47s):
That's like, so it's like if I stay miserable, I don't gotta focus on the fear of losing it. Yeah. That's

4 (24m 51s):
Real.

1 (24m 52s):
'cause we all lose it at the end.

4 (24m 53s):
It's that. And it's also you fee, you have a, a real fear of not being able to keep doing what you do. Like whatever it is that you've done that's successful, you just lose the magic. You lose the thing. What is it now? I suck. You know, like whatever it is now, I'm not interested. Now I'm not interesting now. I can't talk now, now I can't do this anymore. I can't do that anymore. Nobody likes my music. You know, my movies suck. Like Yeah. That fear, it's crippling. It's crippling fear. Well, it's such a crazy fear.

1 (25m 21s):
Yeah. It's a, it's funny the way things are set up here. It's just funny. It's like, Hey, enjoy yourself, accumulate all this stuff and then, but you have to have this, you have this knowledge. 'cause we have these big brains of like, I you lose it all. It's all going away. It's

4 (25m 34s):
All gone. So not just said that about everything he has, you know, like they, they were giving him a hard time for giving away so much money and giving people things. Yeah. And he's like, there's, this is not mine. I'm renting this. Yeah. And

1 (25m 45s):
It's,

4 (25m 46s):
It's gonna be gone.

1 (25m 46s):
And it com funny ma comedy makes it everything. Okay. Yeah. That's why I think

4 (25m 52s):
It makes it more fun.

1 (25m 53s):
It makes everything okay. It just, it it conquers everything. Yeah. It just, it means you're, when you have a good sense of humor and when you're laughing in the right way, not just cackling by yourself in a room, but it just means you're mentally healthy. It's a sign of mental health and strength. When you can laugh at horrible things, that's the way you conquer them.

4 (26m 10s):
Yeah. It's also a sign that you're recognizing nuance and you're playing with it. Yeah. Like, it doesn't mean that you really think that this tragedy is great. Right. You just find something horrible to say that's hilarious. Right. About the tragedy. And sometimes you can only do that with your friends. You only do that at a deli. Yeah. You can only do that having dinner at one o'clock in the morning just talking shit. Yeah. Making each other laugh. Yeah. That, but that's also a thing that I think we have really, that we're really lucky about. That's our big gift. Our big di gift is each other. Like as comedians, you know, I, I spend time with a lot of different people and a lot of, you know, DD different occupations and I always can't wait to get back to comedians.

4 (26m 52s):
I always can't wait to get back to the green room with the mothership. Can't, can't wait to do sets on the road. It's just, the conversations are so much more fun. They're so fun.

1 (27m 3s):
Yeah. You can say anything and,

4 (27m 4s):
And it's just fun. Everyone's just being funny and smiling and, and realizing, wow, we're so lucky. We used to be open mic night comedians. And, and now here we are about to go do a sold out show. We're having dinner together at a restaurant and laughing and then you go have fun. Yay. And then the people have thought, yay.

1 (27m 21s):
Yeah.

4 (27m 21s):
Yeah. It's beautiful.

1 (27m 22s):
It's the ultimate connection

4 (27m 23s):
And the amount of love that you get back and forth. Like the amount of love a comic gets, the amount of love they give the, the the the positive energy both for and back. That's like, very few people get to experience that in life. Yeah. Yeah. You know,

1 (27m 39s):
And it's the only place that comedians can get it. Yeah. Is from other comedians. Yes. 'cause we're jaded and Yeah. You can't, it's harder

4 (27m 46s):
For also we know we can speak so freely. Yeah. You know, you can, you can go, there's this fucking bid. It's just dead. I, I it's got a thing and it goes somewhere and then it drops off and don don't know what the fuck to do with it. I've been trying to monkey around with different ways to say it and switch and they're like, Hmm. And then everybody will sit around and analyze it and we'll like analyze each other's bits and like, you know, you don't have to say that part. Everybody already knows that if you cut that out, it's short. You're right. Why did I say that part? And then, you know, everybody just starts tinkering with stuff and you can just like openly tinker. Yeah. With like phrases and ideas and setups.

1 (28m 20s):
Yeah. It's like a, it's like

4 (28m 22s):
So much fun.

1 (28m 24s):
It's like architects sitting with their contractors figuring it out.

4 (28m 29s):
Yeah. If you got a good relationship with the contractor. Yeah. I would imagine the architects and the contractor squabble.

1 (28m 34s):
They do. I'm going through that right now. Oh you, oh we're putting an addition on our house and yeah, they squabble and I'm like, who do I trust? The architect or the contractor.

4 (28m 41s):
Oh no. It's a power struggle for Giannis. Papa's love.

1 (28m 46s):
You get in the middle and it's funny 'cause you don don't know anything so you just got, you're at the mercy. You're just so vulnerable. Yeah. I don't know anything about what they're talking about. And I'm like just trying to look in their eyes and figure out which one's more honest and I have no clue. It's just a guess. Ugh. Yeah.

4 (29m 2s):
That was someone who was telling me that about the World Trade Center. They were saying, you know, the World Trade Center was designed to be hit by a jet plane and Don don't know if they're right, but what they were saying is, do you know how much corruption there is in construction? Yeah. and I was like, no, how much they go, oh. Say if it's supposed to get five bolts, if you only use four, do you know how much money you save over a whole building? If you make the steel that thick instead of that thick, do you know which money you save? If it calls for like half inch this but you use quarter inch that you know how much money you save.

1 (29m 36s):
You gotta pay off the inspectors and all that I guess. I guess. Yeah.

4 (29m 40s):
Are they really inspecting everything?

1 (29m 42s):
Yeah.

4 (29m 43s):
How does that work?

1 (29m 44s):
You just, yeah. You cross your fingers.

4 (29m 46s):
I don't know if that's the case, but my point was always like, how the fuck do you know what's gonna happen to a building until a plane slams into it and you get to watch. Right.

1 (29m 57s):
Because

4 (29m 58s):
There's never been a skyscraper that got hit by a plane before. Which

1 (30m 1s):
Makes

4 (30m 1s):
It interesting. You can't say this is not how it should have happened. Yeah. Like we have zero idea. Well the what it looks like other than nine 11 when

1 (30m 9s):
Jet A plane

4 (30m 10s):
Jet slamming the skyscrapers,

1 (30m 11s):
A plane hit the Empire State Building Big one.

4 (30m 15s):
When was that? The

1 (30m 16s):
40?

4 (30m 18s):
Was it a propeller

1 (30m 19s):
Plane? No, it was a big plane. Like a jet. Yeah. Really? Yeah.

4 (30m 23s):
How bad did it fuck it up?

1 (30m 24s):
It slammed right into it.

4 (30m 26s):
Didn't do shit to it. No. B 25 in 1945. Can you, wow. That's crazy. Yeah.

1 (30m 31s):
Yeah. It's a listen to it's pictures I guess would be Whoa. With And the buildings fell not because of the plane hitting.

4 (30m 37s):
Yeah. Oh shit. Yeah.

1 (30m 38s):
Yeah.

4 (30m 39s):
So that's a big ass old school plane. Yeah. Hitting a, yeah. So it's a propeller plane. Wow. Where did it hit?

1 (30m 49s):
Bang Right there.

4 (30m 51s):
Wow. 79th floor. and it didn't take it out. No,

1 (30m 56s):
They're built not to.

4 (30m 57s):
Is that commensurate though? Like how did it hit? Did it hit just the wing? Was the guy trying to pull out?

1 (31m 2s):
No, he,

4 (31m 3s):
But look at that stuff. No jet fuel in there. What's that? Yeah. No jet fuel Jet. Yeah. No jet fuel because the jet

1 (31m 8s):
Fuel, the heat from the jet fuel is what took down the trade center, not the plane impact. So they say that's what they say. So they say, but

4 (31m 15s):
So they say Yeah, but you know what they are right

1 (31m 18s):
I mean. Well they, you know, they

4 (31m 20s):
Did don don't know who they are. I was, I was hoping I could just sneak that in some time. I wanted to get into that real soon with some Mike. Alex will tell you who is they, depending on what you're talking about. Let's, let's go dinner it with Alex. Let's go dinner it with Alex. He's been freaking me out lately. The nine

1 (31m 31s):
11 is, that's, it's interesting to me, people ruin it by coming up with what they think happened instead of just stopping at, hey it's fishy. It's a little weird just stopping there. 'cause you can't know, you can't know what cons, what the actual conspiracy was. But there's a lot of stuff that doesn't make sense on nine

4 (31m 51s):
11. Well, whenever you run into a situation where there's a, a gigantic worldwide disastrous event, like that's, that's an event that the whole world knew about. But you lie about some aspects of it. Like one of the things was what are the United States get caught lying about Saudi Arabia, about their involvement early on with, with funding.

1 (32m 15s):
Yeah. They ignored it. I mean the bin. Lain pa family was flown out before. Yeah. Weird stuff. Yeah.

4 (32m 20s):
Weird stuff. Weird stuff. Weird stuff. It's like, what if I wanted to do that? Would you be mad? What if, what if I had some fucking dudes from Afghanistan staying in my house and right after some shit went down, I illegally flew them outta the country. They're they're listen, it's cool. Yeah, it's cool. That sounds like what a criminal would do.

1 (32m 36s):
That's right. That's right. Yeah. It

4 (32m 38s):
Just sounds like what a criminal criminal would do. Yeah. Look, if I, if I was running cocaine with the Colombians and right before the FBI came, I fucking shot some planes illegally filled with Coke back to Columbia. I'm like, listen Don, it's time. Don't worry about it. Yeah. It's too good. Its guy's good. But you, you're not allowed to fly right now. It's okay. Yeah, it's okay. It's just,

1 (32m 59s):
Yeah. It's criminal.

4 (32m 60s):
It's just criminal enterprise. Yeah.

1 (33m 2s):
Yeah.

4 (33m 2s):
It's okay. It's okay. We we're just gonna fly. We're not gonna tell you. Yeah. We're gonna take the family of the dude who set this up and we're gonna just fly.

1 (33m 9s):
Okay. Get 'em all out and shut

4 (33m 10s):
The fuck up. Yeah. Shut the fuck up. Hey, shouldn't we keep them here and investigate? Yeah. It seems like there was some sort of a connection with Saudi Arabia. Shut the fuck up.

1 (33m 19s):
What about

4 (33m 20s):
Iraq? That weapons' of war. They're gonna kill us all. We're gonna all be dead unless we get in there right now. Let's

1 (33m 25s):
Go. Yeah. It's sort of like with the Epstein thing, it's like, isn't gas I just call her gasoline 'cause I hate pronouncing her first name. Jaline. Ghislaine. Yeah. Why not Huck them they's? No, they're not interrogating her. How come they're not? She's just sitting there and they're like leaking these slow leaks about

4 (33m 41s):
Well it's even crazy than that. It's

1 (33m 42s):
Like, talk to her. They have her, is nobody asking her any questions? Like she knows everything. Torture her. We

4 (33m 50s):
Can't ask

1 (33m 51s):
Until she

4 (33m 51s):
Says everything, any questions. It's not, it's not proper.

1 (33m 54s):
And how is she just sitting in her mansion? Like while this was all going down? She's just sitting there. They can't find her. She hasn't been arrested.

4 (34m 0s):
She was in a cabin in New Hampshire. Yeah.

1 (34m 2s):
She's, you can't, you can find Bin Laden but you can't find Ghislaine Maxwell.

4 (34m 6s):
Well they found her. Yeah. They found

1 (34m 7s):
Wasn it for

4 (34m 8s):
A while. Well she's, so, you know, bin Laden had a whole network of people protecting him.

1 (34m 13s):
Yeah, I guess.

4 (34m 15s):
Yeah. Well there's a, the craziest theory is that they didn't shoot Bin Laden. They shot Bin Laden's double that. That's why they got rid of it. Like there's so many wacko fucking flat earth conspiracy theories out there about everything. Yeah.

1 (34m 27s):
But some of them are not. Yeah. Some of the bgi because people have access to information now and they go Wait a second. I know what? I also think

4 (34m 34s):
The nine cynically. Yeah. I think there's a lot of really dumb ones and there's a lot of ones that are like a little smarter than dumb. And then there's a lot of ones that are really smart and there's a lot of ones that like, oh my God, if this is true, this changes everything. And they all lump 'em in together. Yeah. And it's Genius. It's Genius. 'cause if you only look at the ones that like the Federal Reserve isn't federal. Wait, wait a minute. Where is it? Right. It's what the fuck's going on. Yeah. You know like when you just look at one or two of those, it's so confounding that that's actually taking place right now that you need like a little flat earth thrown in there. A little fucking Pizzagate, a little Hillary Clinton's laptop.

4 (35m 15s):
They're eating babies a little. You know, so you can sneak in Epstein's Island. Like that was a real place man. Yeah. That was a real place. Yeah. And the way a place like that can kind of flying under the radar as if there's a bunch of fake stuff.

1 (35m 30s):
So you

4 (35m 31s):
Think don't go to Antarctica. There's an alien base. You know? Yeah. There's like the more nutty shit they can get you to think about the more real things you should be really concerned about sneak through.

1 (35m 41s):
Yeah. Do you think that's intentional? Or you think

4 (35m 43s):
Percent hundred percent

1 (35m 45s):
Spiral with other stuff? Both. Yeah. Both. I think it's both.

4 (35m 48s):
Probably. Yeah. It's both. Yeah. But it's, they're playing on the fact, even if the government wasn't encouraging people to go insane, they would still go insane. They would still have conspiracy theories, but without a doubt foreign governments are on TikTok and on Instagram and on Facebook. And they are influencing people to go in a very specific direction. And how much of a percentage is it if their algorithm encourages like trans positive content? How, how much does that move the public narrative? It's not zero. It's not zero. No. So if you got two ships and they're both going in the same direction, parallel lines and I could turn this one ship just like that.

4 (36m 28s):
Just a little bit. I just need like a couple degrees of turn over time. That motherfucker's gonna be way off course. Yeah. Way off course. Yeah. I think that's happening.

1 (36m 38s):
Oh that's

4 (36m 39s):
For fucking

1 (36m 40s):
Sure. That's the way war is waged now. Yeah. And

4 (36m 43s):
It's also being, it's also happening with people that think they're doing the right thing. Like we were talking about Google the other day and like how YouTube censors things like what they think they're doing it right. They think they're doing the right thing. Right. I was reading Did, is this true that Gas digitals, all their stuff got taken off the air.

1 (37m 2s):
I think they got taken down again on YouTube, I think. Yeah. don don't know if you mean like their website and everything. No,

4 (37m 7s):
The con their YouTube page.

1 (37m 8s):
Yeah. They got taken down again. Yeah.

4 (37m 11s):
There's one video where this comic that works at Lewis was saying that all they were doing in this podcast is talking about how big a guy's Dick was. This guy had a giant hog. They were talking about this guy and they got, they got their shit removed for that. Oh,

5 (37m 26s):
It's up now.

4 (37m 27s):
It's

5 (37m 27s):
Back. This is a different page

4 (37m 29s):
To

5 (37m 29s):
It's back. It's like the specials and stuff.

4 (37m 31s):
Yeah. So what were they saying? Oh is it, maybe I'm looking at something. Maybe it was a clip of something that happened in the past.

1 (37m 37s):
Yeah. I don't know the specifics of it at all.

4 (37m 40s):
It was one of those, it was either an Instagram reel or one of 'em YouTube shorts. You know, one of those things like that. Yeah. He was talking about how they, they took it down 'cause he was talking about how big a dude's hog was.

1 (37m 50s):
Yeah. That doesn't seem, oh it's bullying. Yeah.

4 (37m 54s):
It was his big dick. When you're

5 (37m 55s):
Looking at the, are you talking about Jeffrey Epstein's Island? A lot of people don't talk about his ranch in New Mexico.

1 (37m 59s):
Yeah. And his mansion I mean it was, it was popping off at all his spots.

4 (38m 4s):
He built a 26,700 square foot mansion with a sprawling courtyard in the living room. Roughly the size of the American home nearby was a private airstrip with a hanger and helipad. The property also included a ranch office, a firehouse, and a seven bay heated garage. Yeah, that sounds like an intelligence agent right out of a fucking movie. Yeah.

1 (38m 26s):
And we're

4 (38m 26s):
Lowering all the politicians into the honeypot. Yeah. And how many people died because of that?

1 (38m 32s):
I he we're never gonna know. They're never gonna let us. We'll never know. What

4 (38m 35s):
A fucking Genius con. Yeah, what a Genius con. You get some guy, you say he's a billionaire, you just give him like a fucking blank checkbook, which when you're spending 170 billion on Ukraine and 136 billion here and 46 billion there. And we gotta upgrade that and just let these people in. And that costs 30 trillion. Like fucking what's

1 (38m 57s):
A billion? That's right. Yeah. What's

4 (38m 59s):
A billion? To control literally the greatest scientists and entertainers and politicians and just get 'em all convinced. Yeah. Look, Bill's here. Look. Look who's here, Steven Hawkings here. Look, this guy's here. Look at this Nobel Laureates here. Look at all these brilliant esteemed scientists. Look at these amazing conversations. Look how beautiful these women are. It's like everybody says that. You know, if you went there, you'd be a real piece of shit. If you're going to a place where I mean, what is the actual list? Who's on the actual list? You know, there's, there's some pretty fascinating people. If you got invited to that party, you didn't know what the fuck was going on.

4 (39m 40s):
Magician David Copperfield reappears Jeffrey Epstein Court, poof. With lawyers suggesting he traded tickets for girls tickets for his shows. Is the show that hot

1 (39m 53s):
Jesus Christ.

4 (39m 55s):
How cheap are these girls? Because like what, how much does these tickets to his show cost

1 (39m 59s):
I don? I don't know. I don don't know the magic I. know the magic hierarchy.

4 (40m 2s):
Talk about overvaluing what you're worth. Yeah.

1 (40m 5s):
If you

4 (40m 5s):
Give me a sex slave, I'll give you tickets to my show.

1 (40m 8s):
I get tickets to my magic show. Not even a Chris Angel show either.

4 (40m 12s):
But what a brilliant move. If you can I mean here's, okay, question one. Number one, were they all underage? Were some of them of age? Like, do we know how that worked? Because even if they weren't under underage is the best. If you wanna get some black brown, that's the best. But we can still bust quite a few guys with of age. Oh yeah. Especially if you're giving them a little Yay yo.

1 (40m 36s):
Yeah,

4 (40m 37s):
We're on an island. You ain't gonna do, there's

1 (40m 38s):
No rules. Yeah, yeah,

4 (40m 41s):
Yeah. We're the elite. We're the fucking Illuminati. PI.

1 (40m 46s):
Yeah, just cheating on your wife is enough. Yeah.

4 (40m 48s):
Enough. That's enough. Yeah. It just, we're publicly having it so that they can like trot it out there. Anytime there's an election, anytime there's a this or there's a vote, they want you to vote in one way or another way. They always have that. Always have that.

1 (41m 2s):
Just a little reminder out there.

4 (41m 3s):
So do you just keep that fucking thing in the back of your head? Like, I gotta shut the fuck up and tow the line. It's probably, I gotta shut the fuck up and

1 (41m 9s):
Tow the line. There's no better way to control someone.

4 (41m 11s):
No better way. No. And it's, it's so brilliant and ancient. It's like an ancient strategy, you know? and it, it was I First of all, is there another one going on right now that we don't know about Of course

1 (41m 25s):
Like

4 (41m 25s):
That at that level Of course. It seems like that guy was

1 (41m 27s):
Like so effective. Why would you stop? Like you, yeah.

4 (41m 30s):
I think you need a combination of things to do it at that guy's level. By all accounts, he was a brilliant guy, which is wild. Right. And you have to be also a sick fuck, which he obviously was. And also an intelligence agent. So do you just become that sick fuck over the course of like, you know, you hear about DEA agents, they start dealing drugs once they get in there. They're like, they, they're like undercover and then they fucking live the life and they start actually dealing drugs. It happens. Yeah. Do you think like maybe the guy just became a fucking sociopath psychopath. So fascinating from just dealing with the life that he was, that's his job.

4 (42m 13s):
His job is to trick politicians into fucking underage girls and get 'em coked up and bring 'em into this place that's, it's cameras everywhere. These fucking idiots don't know that there's gonna be cameras everywhere and you, and you set this up and I, this is what you do for a living for 30 years or however long he did it.

1 (42m 29s):
It's fascinating to think about. I think two things. I think everyone wants to be someone, right? Everyone wants to be someone have an exciting life. And then I think people have a myriad of, they have a, you know, just your moral compass from your family. Whatever's on a scale. So that's a factor. And then, but the more important factor is everyone has those moments in their life where things are offered to them. You know? And you know, you go this way, you're gonna get some exciting stuff, but you're gonna have to compromise your moral compass. And yeah. People make the, you know, make that decision. Fame and power.

1 (43m 9s):
It's like the ultimate elixir.

4 (43m 11s):
It's also the people that you're around. 'cause like we were talking about, like we love being around comics. It's, it's fun. It's our lifestyle. It's how we like to talk. They like being around other sociopaths. They like being around other people that are taking over businesses. Hostile takeovers. They, they like to be around the guys who influence foreign governments. The guys who fly over in private jets and sit with their legs crossed with the Italian shoes on. You know, and they have conversations about clean energy and you know what, what they really wanna do is control the fucking food, control the farmlands. You know, we have to reduce the methane from these cows.

4 (43m 53s):
And the best way to do, it's just take the cows away from the farmers. If we just control the cows, if we have a climate change mandate and we control the foams, I mean it's basically game over. That's, they're literally doing

1 (44m 5s):
That. All bad guys have a British accent.

4 (44m 7s):
There's no reason why you would say we shouldn't have cows unless you're a fucking complete. So sociopath you, you're not going after the coal plants first. No. You want people to get rid of cows. Are you sure this is a good strategy? Do you understand starvation? Do you understand how that works? You're not gonna grow cows, are you? No. You need someone to grow cows and you're gonna take their cows away the fuck out

1 (44m 35s):
Of here. Yeah. Why would they want to get rid of

4 (44m 36s):
Cows? Because they want you to be completely dependent on them. The more you're dependent on them and the more they can tell you what's good and what's bad and what you shouldn't be doing. Giannis, we looked at your carbon footprint. Your carbon footprint is very problematic. It seems like in your job of standup comedy, you travel more than the average person and you contribute more CO2 guy and they show you like a a video of all and we're gonna have to get you to stop. It's like for the greater good. For the greater good.

1 (45m 9s):
It has some benefits. Social credit scores have a benefit. Things are cleaner. They run a little more orderly.

4 (45m 15s):
Sure. You have to listen or you can't eat.

1 (45m 18s):
It's horrible. It's a nightmare. But you know, there is some,

4 (45m 21s):
It's

1 (45m 21s):
Things do run better.

4 (45m 23s):
Well, better for the government. Yeah. You have less descent 'cause you kill people. Yeah. I mean China's doing a great job of showing how you can run it. You

1 (45m 31s):
Can run it. Yeah. They're just doing it. Yeah. It's nice. Tight ship over there. That's how you make an iPhone. Nobody's jaywalking. Yeah. That's how you

4 (45m 36s):
Make an

1 (45m 36s):
IPhone. That's how you make an iPhone over there. Yeah. You get, you get, you get people to follow rules.

4 (45m 40s):
Yeah. And they,

1 (45m 41s):
You know,

4 (45m 42s):
If that comes over here, that's the end of creativity. That's the end of everything. Because you're just gonna have to shut the fuck up and you're gonna have to toe the line. And we all already know that the line is nonsense. Yeah. We know that the line is not really intelligent people that are assessing objectively what's going on in the world and giving you a reasonable version of the events. We know that's not really what we're seeing in the media. Right. We're seeing people that are deeply influenced by advertising budgets, by what kind of companies advertise on their shows by the investors who own stock in the company. It's, there's narratives and they're not necessarily even remotely honest.

4 (46m 28s):
Right. Like sometimes they're off the charts fake.

1 (46m 33s):
Right. Right.

4 (46m 34s):
They, and they get printed in like major newspapers. Like some of the propaganda in the beginning of the Israeli Hamas war was that these Israelis bombed a hospital and 500 people were killed. It was printed in the New York Times. I

1 (46m 48s):
Remember that. Yeah.

4 (46m 49s):
They didn't hit the hospital. No. They hit the parking lot next to the hospital. and

1 (46m 51s):
It seems, I think a lot of that is the rush too, to get to the story first. Like, 'cause there's so much competition. Everyone's just putting things out and nobody cares about the retraction anyway. And

4 (46m 59s):
So, well the rut also, that's a juicy story. Yeah. If Israel really did bomb a hospital, oh my god, this is genocide. Yeah. You know, it really helps that narrative. Yeah.

1 (47m 10s):
Like I was watching this documentary last night and the media did that to this couple and they, because the movie Gone Girl was out at the time, so they just started calling her Gone Girl. And she made up this whole story of being kidnapped. She did get kidnapped. She did get raped. Oh my God. But the media was just making fun of her calling her Gone Girl because oh my God, it's a juicier story. They just ran with it. The police department too was all convinced that she was a gone girl. People just marketing and and advertising and subterfuge. It works. It just works. That's why advertisers spend billions of dollars on it because

4 (47m 42s):
It works. Ever seen Nancy Pelosi talking about it openly? Just talking about the wrap up smear?

1 (47m 47s):
No,

4 (47m 48s):
You know, Nancy's been in politics for a long time. She's been a long time. And she's Genius with her money.

1 (47m 53s):
She's very good. She beats the market a lot.

4 (47m 55s):
It's amazing that someone who's never made more than $170,000 a year is worth 150 million bucks. Yeah. And she does better investing in the stock market than Warren Buffet or George Soros.

1 (48m 6s):
Yeah. She's always beating the market.

4 (48m 8s):
So don don't know what happened. Maybe she had a senior moment and she just started explaining how you lie. And she I mean this can't be ai, is it? I think it's real fine because it's from a couple of years ago. It's called the wrap up smear.

5 (48m 19s):
Yeah. There's a ap that assessment that says it's been taken out of context. I was trying to get to what the context was.

4 (48m 26s):
What, what context could it be? She's describing a wrap up smear.

5 (48m 31s):
It says she was, the assessment says she was describing a tactic she used or she accused Republicans of against Democrats and other portions of her response not showing the clip. Pelosi makes it clear she's not talking about her own party.

4 (48m 43s):
Oh, I don't think don don't necessarily think she's talking about anyone in particular. What I'm saying is that what she revealed right, is that there's a str it's a play. You know, like if you're a football player and they call a play, you know, that play, you know like, like her callback and stand up comedy. This is what she's doing. She's talking business. She's talking business. I'm not saying she's even accusing anybody of this.

5 (49m 4s):
No I know the claim was that it was, oh, the claim was saying that it's how the Democrats get the media to legitimize

4 (49m 9s):
Lies. Oh, okay. But what it, what was fascinating to me about it was just this open admittance that it's all bullshit. Just, just saying like not decrying this thing and saying it's a, it's a genuine problem with communication. That we have deception and it's tolerated and that it's not punished and that like a willful deception like this. And there's a thing called a wrap up smear. And this is a horrible thing that they do. It wasn't that. It was like, this is how it's done. Right. Watch it go play it from the beginning.

5 (49m 39s):
Video, I think

7 (49m 43s):
Stop audio clip.

8 (49m 45s):
You smear somebody with falsehoods and all the rest and then you merchandise it. And then you write it and they'll say, see, it's reported in the press that this, this, this, and this. So they have that validation. The press reported

4 (50m 2s):
What's going on.

5 (50m 3s):
The news person thought to start talking. That's why I was trying to cut it off unless wanna hear

9 (50m 6s):
The assault allegations against Brett Kavanaugh.

5 (50m 8s):
This is where I was trying to not get too confused on what,

4 (50m 11s):
Okay. So they were connecting it to the assault allegations against Brett Kavanaugh. They tried to keep him outta the Supreme Court, right? Is that what the Fox News story was trying to

5 (50m 19s):
Do? This was from five years ago when this was posted. Yeah.

4 (50m 21s):
But what I was getting at was just that she's describing a tactic. This is what we do. We, you know, we fake and then Johnny comes into the right, I pass off the football to him, he sneaks around behind me. We run through the fucking line. Let's go. Yeah. She's talking business. Yeah. Even if she's not saying that the Democrats do it, this is how we do it. She's talking business. Yes.

1 (50m 45s):
Yes. And that's how it works. And you're not, she's

4 (50m 47s):
Not horrified. Imagine if you were in that same position and you had been given information for whatever reason, the current administration thinks Giannis pop is, let's have a, a very smart, funny guy and he's gonna be be the guy that kinda explains what's going on. And you have to explain what a wrap up smear is. Would you not feel like morally obligated to say something about how atrocious activity like this is when it comes to critical decisions that people are making, people that are probably not that informed, people that are going through their day, busy. They have jobs, they have bills, they have stress, they have all kinds of stuff going on. They don't have enough time to pay attention to what's going on with the Supreme Court guy.

4 (51m 31s):
So if you're like, openly discussing strategies where you would deceive people in order to get a narrative passed, that's clearly untrue. Because you don't want that guy in office politically. And that's not horrific to people. That is anti-American. It really is. And you can think you're doing it because you're a good American. But that's how communism gets started. That's how dictators take over. They come up with justification for why they can bend the rules. The rules are the fucking rules.

1 (52m 6s):
Yeah. Once you, once you compromise the rules, that's

4 (52m 9s):
You gotta let people vote. Yeah. You gotta let people, you, there should be and I think there's gotta be a good news. What is that 1440 news? Is that what it's called? don? Don't even know what that is. There's some news site that is tr there's a, a comp, I think that's the name of it. I signed up for it. don don't even remember what it's, they're trying to just give you facts with no narrative. Like here's the events of the day.

1 (52m 33s):
Ground news. I love ground news.

4 (52m 36s):
Don don't know what the sources are like if they're on the ground, but what they're, what they're doing is they're trying to do it without a left wing or a right wing spin.

1 (52m 43s):
Well, ground news tells you it rates. That's

4 (52m 45s):
It. 1440.

5 (52m 46s):
Don don't know, is

4 (52m 47s):
It? Yeah, that's it. Do you have a sign up for it? I don't

5 (52m 50s):
Even know. I'm, I can't tell if this is just a substack

4 (52m 53s):
A hundred plus sources. So You don't have to culture, science, sports, politics, business and more. All on a five minute read. It's people are, if you're a Fox News fucking zombie, you're a Fox News zombie. You're, you're not, you're not checking what M-S-N-B-C has to say. You know, what's that? That Rachel Maddow lady, what's her take on this? Because there's some fucking, is there room in the middle here? No, you don't.

1 (53m 17s):
What's what's, you don't wanna live in that re you live in that re you live in the Fox reality don't

4 (53m 21s):
Have time. Yeah. No one has any fucking time. Gianni. Yeah. They have time to be sorting this out. So if you are fucking lying and you're doing it because you think it's a good strategy to get your politician in place, that's dirty. That's anti-American.

1 (53m 41s):
Yeah, it is. But I'm sure it's the way it's worked from the beginning. Think

4 (53m 45s):
About what they took Nixon out for. Just spying. Just a little spying. Just a little spying. Not that big a deal.

1 (53m 56s):
Yeah.

4 (53m 58s):
And they don't wanna do anything about the Epstein client list and they don't want do anything about whatever the fuck Hunter Bidet was doing with Russia and Ukraine.

1 (54m 10s):
Ukraine, yeah.

4 (54m 11s):
Ukraine and China. Yeah. Yeah. What were you doing, bro?

1 (54m 14s):
They're selective about what, what,

4 (54m 16s):
What will you doing over there? Yeah. Hey Joe, why does everybody have millions of dollars? Yeah. Where all that come from? Yeah.

1 (54m 23s):
Why are you on the board of a major energy company and you're a crack head? Why did, yeah. Is it a curry favor with the vice president?

4 (54m 31s):
Why did Joe Bidet get a million dollar a year job teaching at UPenn? Yeah. That was funded by a Chinese grant. Yeah.

1 (54m 43s):
He also, or

4 (54m 44s):
I shouldn't say it's funded by a Chinese grant. It happened right after China gave him a bunch of money. This fucking dude doesn't even have to show there. These tell everybody he's teaching there. Yeah.

1 (54m 53s):
And he also plagiarized got caught and there's no consequences.

4 (54m 58s):
Dude, we had Joe Bidet night at Stitches Comedy Club in Boston in 1988 when he was running for president. He got busted, I think it was Robert Kennedy's speech and someone else's speech. He used like big chunks of people's stuff and he got busted pre-internet. Yeah. and it was so egregious and so bad that we did Joe Bidet night at the Stitches Comedy Club, where like you would go up and do my act and I would go up and do your act. We would just go up and do acts of our friends. If you could just, you know, we'd fit Simmons and I used to go and watch it. It was hilarious. Yeah.

1 (55m 36s):
There's no consequences.

4 (55m 37s):
There's no consequences. No consequences. It's not just no consequences. But there's so many videos of him. People keep wanting to talk about Trump lying and you know, Trump being a bully. And it's like, I'm not saying he's not, I'm not saying he's not a crazy individual, a bombastic individual. But why are you ignoring the other guy's lies? Right. Because if you care about truth, we should be going, shit, look at this mess. That's what we should be doing.

1 (56m 1s):
It's the same reason why those people won't say that Trump did anything good. He did do some good things when he was in office. Some, he was right about some things and he did do some things that were effective, but they'll never admit it. 'cause it's, it's all team ball.

4 (56m 14s):
The guy who was the head of Google, how do you say his name? Chamath don. Don't wanna fuck his name up. I don wanna say last name. Brilliant guy. But his take on it was he, Trump was the wrong guy with the right strategies, wrong guy with the right message, wrong guy. Socially, politically, lightning rod for the wrong kind of people. The right guy in terms of, it seems like those policies were more effective. There's just so many things that are fucking weird right now.

1 (56m 43s):
That's a good point. Yeah. That is a good point. Yeah.

4 (56m 45s):
Well, he's brilliant. Yeah. He's a brilliant guy. And you have to be brilliant to be someone who was at Google, which is an incredibly left wing organization. Like heavy, like most super Genius tech people are very like left wing. And then to look at that in a nuanced way and and to be able to step outside of the ideology and say that, because that's the truth. Yeah. That is the truth. Yeah.

5 (57m 8s):
He was a early executive Facebook.

4 (57m 10s):
Not Google, I'm sorry, Facebook and that again, same kind of thing. Yeah, same I mean, yeah. Yeah. Super Genius tech guy. And, but the way he describes, see if you can find him saying it. 'cause the way he describes it, you're like, thank God he's saying that. And not a moron. Yeah. You know, because what he's describing is the actual points and he's, he's making very good points about it. Yeah. It's

1 (57m 31s):
Like, well, I mean we're less dependent on foreign oil. I mean he was right about the border. Look at the border now.

4 (57m 38s):
The border now seems to be on purpose. It, it seems to be on purpose. It seems to be like there's some sort of a strategy to either flood the country. Tim Dylan thinks it's cheap labor for construction. He's like, that's

1 (57m 52s):
Gotta be true.

4 (57m 53s):
It's gotta be a factor. It's gotta be a factor. Yeah. Cheap, probably a factor. And then another factor is this push to have them be able to vote. You know, it's, it's a weird one. Like they're doing that in New York City. They're, they're pushing to give illegals the right to vote. But then the wildest thing in Texas is doing just shipping all the people that show up. 'cause the, these states want, they want sanctuary cities. Like, yeah, because you're not on the border. Go, okay, we'll just ship 'em to you. Yeah. It's so Texas is just shipping busloads of illegal immigrants in New York. Like, this is your mess. It's

1 (58m 26s):
The perfect example of the difference between theory and reality. Yes. It's like everyone up there is in theory, oh, love everybody. Everyone's great. It, there's no such thing as an illegal. And then when it becomes your problem, and that's why Texas is doing it, they're going, okay, now you're gonna deal with what we're dealing with. So you're gonna feel what it's like. And now you guys gotta pay for it. And you have to figure out what to do and

4 (58m 45s):
Change your policies.

1 (58m 46s):
Yeah. Stupid. It's, yeah, it's, it, it has, there's a lot of people in the left in the center that are going just like, make it go away. They're just going, don don't know. Just throw 'em in the water. Just make it go away. But don't tell anyone I told you here

5 (58m 59s):
Is, is this it?

4 (58m 59s):
Yeah, that's it. Check

5 (59m 0s):
Talking about Trump derangement syndrome.

4 (59m 2s):
Yeah. Okay.

5 (59m 3s):
Take two minutes. Restart.

10 (59m 7s):
Pause audio.

11 (59m 10s):
Hillary Clinton. I voted for Joe Bidet, but this is the honest assessment. The guy did for the things that he was supposed to do a good job and for where every other president found a way to frankly make our situation a little bit worse, specifically around wars. He did not do that. And that is a huge accomplishment that I think needs to be acknowledged as a Democrat who has been left homeless, who is now definitely in the center, but probably leaning increasingly right. I am left yet again with an appreciation despite the messenger of the message of the Trump administration. Because what those guys did was pretty incredible.

11 (59m 52s):
In hindsight, these Abraham accords, the accords with Israel and the GCC, the almost accord between Israel and Saudi to really be able to like find a long lasting peace is just a real example for the world. And those guys did a lot of really good work. and it, it's, it's a

12 (1h 0m 14s):
Miracle actually when you, when you look at it, what they did. You know, despite the fact, listen, I'm no fan of Trump and I am too homeless, but

11 (1h 0m 22s):
This is where I say this, but if, if you

12 (1h 0m 23s):
Wanna objectively look at what they did, it was good work. You have to, it was great work. You have to,

11 (1h 0m 28s):
You have to, and in fact, this is a moment where you have to start to re-underwrite. Like, is one's Trump derangement syndrome causing more damage than anything that Trump could have actually done? and I think the answer is yes, because like, it's now causing us to not see that good work and then embrace and extend it. So much of the work that happened in that administration turns out to have been right. And that's what's so frustrating for me. The work on the border wall. We didn't like the messenger, so we killed the message. Turned out it was right issuing long-term debt to refinance when rates were at zero. We didn't like the messenger.

11 (1h 1m 8s):
So we killed the message. A structural piece in the Middle East. We didn't like the messenger, so we killed the message. When are we gonna stop shooting ourselves in the foot? And when are we gonna actually see and take the time to look past who is saying things and actually listen to them word for word.

4 (1h 1m 27s):
Boom.

1 (1h 1m 28s):
So good. Well, that's why he is gonna win this election. If they let him run, he's gonna win. Well, I think the abortion thing really shot the Republicans in the foot. Yeah. I I think a lot of women are not happy about that. Whether they publicly say it or not.

4 (1h 1m 41s):
I think it's a gamble. It's like what percentage of people are pro and what percentage of people are against and how many of the, like the people that are actually gonna vote a real hardcore, you know, red till dead. How many of those people are pro-life? Probably a good number. The majority. And the other ones are, the other ones are not gonna vote Democrat. Just for that issue. If you don't like, I, I believe with Trump with everything except killing babies, I'm not gonna vote for him in that. I just think you should be able to do that. Like Yeah. Very few people are gonna do that unless you currently need one right now. You know, and then that might sway your judgment. Right. But very few people, if like most of the, the chips are stacked in this one direction, but there's just one.

4 (1h 2m 25s):
Yeah. The thing is that, the thing about it is the control thing. The thing about it that is, it's kind of crazy, is being able to tell someone what they can and can't do. And to say there's no debate. Right. Well, it's clearly a debate 'cause people have been having abortions all over the place and we're not putting them in jail. Right. So there's clearly a debate as to what that is. Yeah.

1 (1h 2m 44s):
And it's also that it's one of those things where it's like you're morally against it. So then if you're morally against it, then you don't do it and be morally against it. But it's one of those things that's gonna happen. It's like being morally against something doesn't change anything in the real world. Say like with Israel and Palestine, like, I'm morally against it. It's like, okay, what's that gonna do? Right. But to

4 (1h 3m 4s):
Extent it's not gonna

1 (1h 3m 5s):
Stop people from

4 (1h 3m 5s):
Dying. To extent. To an extent. To an extent. Because once the baby's born, then we all agree you can't kill it. Right. So, but that's, so there's a number, but most

1 (1h 3m 12s):
Of the world does. Like what? First term after first term is not good.

4 (1h 3m 17s):
Yeah. I think there's

1 (1h 3m 18s):
Gotta be a compromise.

4 (1h 3m 19s):
It's interesting because people are talking about, because

1 (1h 3m 20s):
Abortions aren't good, even if you're on the left abortions, you can't say abortions are good.

4 (1h 3m 25s):
The when the people that want them are, you know, like there's, you see the video of that trans guy, a trans woman rather, who say he wants to be the first person to get a transplanted uterus, get pregnant and have an abortion.

1 (1h 3m 36s):
Ah, it's gotta be a joke. It's, you can't add comedy to comedy. It's,

4 (1h 3m 40s):
It's probably a dude. Yeah. It's probably just a regular dude. Just thought it would be funny. Start a TikTok page. Say the wildest shit. Yes. We're coming for your kids. I always think that about the guy with a stubble and the lipstick. I'm like, that's probably not even real. Yeah. This one.

13 (1h 3m 51s):
But because they want to get an abortion

14 (1h 3m 55s):
Trans woman to have a successful uterus transplant. Ovaries and eggs included. and I want to be the first trans woman to have an abortion.

4 (1h 4m 8s):
It's, it is,

1 (1h 4m 9s):
It is true. It's comedy. If it's not, it's also comedy.

4 (1h 4m 12s):
It's China's victory cry. Yeah. Yeah.

1 (1h 4m 15s):
We got 'em.

4 (1h 4m 16s):
That's what I think. I think China toed us into a, a fucking coma.

1 (1h 4m 21s):
They certainly have. Yeah.

4 (1h 4m 23s):
I think, I think we did it to ourselves partially. But I, I also think for sure, just like I said, like it has an effect on narratives about which way people believe what they agree with and don't agree with. Whatever they can show you on that algorithm that shapes things in a certain direction.

1 (1h 4m 41s):
Well I think they, they saw what our culture's about what our weakness was and they used it against us, you know, fame, what we worship Tom Cruise fame. And then once they democratized fame, they were like, oh, let's use this. Yeah. Let's, let's promote, let's make stupid people famous. Let's make simple things famous. Let's push these in the algorithm so people see it. Because then Americans will go, oh, I can get famous too. And then everyone started becoming their own Madison Avenue agency marketing, wacky zany versions of themselves.

4 (1h 5m 13s):
If you know actors and you know actors Yeah. And I know actors. Not all of them, but there's a percentage of them that aren't even

1 (1h 5m 21s):
People. No, they're like vessels

4 (1h 5m 23s):
Yeah. Of their fucking mind. And if you can convince that guy that wearing a dress to the Golden Globes is gonna get him more attention, he's gonna

1 (1h 5m 32s):
Do it. Oh yeah.

4 (1h 5m 34s):
He's gonna do it. Yeah. He's gonna wear high heels and you're gonna tell him he looks fabulous and this guy is straight as an arrow and it doesn't matter. He's just gaming the system. Yeah.

1 (1h 5m 43s):
The people who are really into fame, you can really convince them to do anything. Yeah. Almost. Because they want the fame, they want the attention, they want it bad. They want it so bad. That's the question. They want it so bad. That's the question. They're obsessed with being huge.

4 (1h 5m 56s):
Yeah.

1 (1h 5m 57s):
And I, you know, I've met people like that. They're just, they're obsessed with it. That's what they want. It's, it's just what they want. It's how they're built. It's what they're

4 (1h 6m 5s):
Into. And then the producer puts his hand on your leg and grabs your hog. Yeah. You're like, oh, but I want the movie. The movie do is so important. and

1 (1h 6m 12s):
It, and you do it, the movie's

4 (1h 6m 15s):
So important. He grabs you by your hand, takes you into the room. Oh, how bad do you wanna be Iron Man? Yeah.

1 (1h 6m 23s):
How

4 (1h 6m 23s):
Bad. How bad? How bad do you wanna be? Peter Parker. Yeah. It's so crazy.

1 (1h 6m 31s):
That's probably what tips the scales. Whoever's willing to do that the most.

4 (1h 6m 34s):
Well, Quentin Tarantino was telling us about this old director that literally had a bedroom built into his office where he had bed the starlets. So he had his office, they would go into his office and there was a bed in a room and he would take them in there and bang them. All of them gotta be in the movie. You gotta fuck the producer.

1 (1h 6m 51s):
Gotta fuck the producer.

4 (1h 6m 52s):
Yeah. Fuck are you talking about? Yeah. Especially once you get that system up and running and you've created a few stars and you know how to do it. And they all, it's frank. He's the guy who runs the office. He can make you famous

1 (1h 7m 4s):
And he can And he can. And he can. And he will. He

4 (1h 7m 6s):
Can. Yeah. Yeah.

1 (1h 7m 8s):
It's, it's interesting now. 'cause the world knows that that's the way it works. 'cause it does, it does work that way.

4 (1h 7m 13s):
What Harvey Weinstein thing just opened

1 (1h 7m 15s):
Up that candle arms. Yeah. Just opened up like that is how it works. Yeah. That is how it works. A lot of times people who rise up in the system are bad people.

4 (1h 7m 24s):
Especially those kinds of systems. Yeah. Systems of power and influence. But I would say that that's like, I was always talking about Hollywood in that way. That that is like, it's a perfect proving ground for like the absolute worst way to develop a human being. You take people that are already fucked up and they need extra attention and then they move to a place where they're surrounded by people who are fucked up and need extra attention. And then you make them compete to see who's worthy. And you go in there and pretend to be someone else and they decide whether or not they're like, you are someone else or his someone else. And you have to figure out what they like and try to be their friend. Maybe bring them chocolates and maybe talk to them about the, the latest Roe v Wade issue.

4 (1h 8m 7s):
I, I for 1:00 AM always been with a woman's right to choose and they'll like formulate their ideology based on whatever this group of people. So this group of people achieves ultimate power. And you know, like if you step outta line politically with any of those people, you're on that shit list and you're not gonna be in that movie a hundred percent. You either keep your fucking mouth shut or you go and you wear your fucking pink ribbon and you do all the things. You're supposed to do the black square on Tuesday. You do everything you're supposed to do or you're not getting in. And so everybody is just like this like weird shell of a person trying to figure out what's the thing they're supposed to say and what's the thing they're supposed to support.

4 (1h 8m 51s):
And

1 (1h 8m 52s):
Yeah. It's a miserable way to live. But, but it's

4 (1h 8m 55s):
A whole industry. They love it. And that's how you make fake stuff.

1 (1h 8m 57s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 8m 58s):
That's the only way to make fake stuff. Yeah. You gotta get those fucking crazy people to pretend they're a minor. Yeah.

1 (1h 9m 4s):
There's plenty of those people willing to step up and act that way. It's

4 (1h 9m 7s):
Just a terrible place to like be a human. And in that environment, it's so hard. Like, I so admire actors who are cool. I so admire them. 'cause like, oh, you're just a guy. I can just hang out Like Chris Pratt, bro. He was, if he was right here, he still like, like my friend from high school or something. Yeah. He's like a regular guy just happens to be a giant movie star. Yeah. Like how did you do it? You you got through. You're all right.

1 (1h 9m 32s):
Well, his looks didn't hurt.

4 (1h 9m 33s):
It helps. Yeah. It helps a lot bit. Yeah. But you can also be a douche with looks like

1 (1h 9m 36s):
That you can be Yeah. You know? Yeah. If you are, it's like, why?

4 (1h 9m 40s):
Right. You already won the lottery, you're

1 (1h 9m 42s):
A douche and you look like that. You're like, what dude?

4 (1h 9m 43s):
He's

1 (1h 9m 44s):
A fucking fucking easy

4 (1h 9m 44s):
Sweetheart of a guy. Yeah.

1 (1h 9m 46s):
Yeah. There's a lot of guys like that. Like, I've always loved Ethan Hawke. He says a lot of profound things. He seems like a real normal guy. He lives in Brooklyn.

4 (1h 9m 53s):
Yeah. He seems brilliant. Did you see that new movie? The I haven't

1 (1h 9m 56s):
Seen it yet.

4 (1h 9m 56s):
What is it called? The new Netflix movie. It's an apocalyptic.

1 (1h 10m 0s):
Oh, it sucked into the world when, oh, I didn't like it. Yeah. I did it. No, I did not like it. Dare. What

4 (1h 10m 4s):
Was it called? Leave the World Behind. Leave the World Behind. You thought it sucked.

1 (1h 10m 7s):
Didn. I didn't

4 (1h 10m 8s):
Like it. What did you not like about it?

1 (1h 10m 9s):
I just thought it don don't know. It just didn't. I loved it. You

4 (1h 10m 11s):
Loved it. Loved it.

1 (1h 10m 12s):
Yeah. I didn't like it.

4 (1h 10m 13s):
Yeah. The only thing I didn't love is the animals showing up in their backyard. I'm like, this

1 (1h 10m 16s):
Doesn't, that seemed a little over the top. It sense. It seemed sense a little over the top if I think what I didn't like about it, it seemed a little over the top. Well that was, I like the theme of it. I liked how they kind of turned on each other a little bit.

4 (1h 10m 26s):
Yeah. But not too much. Not

1 (1h 10m 27s):
Too much.

4 (1h 10m 28s):
But it's coming. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You

1 (1h 10m 30s):
Think they're preparing us?

4 (1h 10m 31s):
Yeah. Well for sure. They set up a get a bunker, a affair For sure. Ethan's weak and the other dude is strong and Yeah. You know, that's gonna work out well. You know, I mean there's not enough people. Yeah.

1 (1h 10m 42s):
Julia Roberts still looks great.

4 (1h 10m 44s):
Yeah. Yeah. You know, the, the, the thing that threw me off in that movie was the fake animals. The CGI animals like that. Does you, like you just took me away. You've developed this intense psychological thriller. You don't need to have this weird animal mystery thing in the middle and it

1 (1h 10m 59s):
Didn't even go anywhere. Exactly. Yeah.

4 (1h 11m 0s):
Well, there's no logic behind it. Yeah. There's no reason why the analysts would all just show up in your backyard like that.

1 (1h 11m 5s):
And they never explained it or nothing ever happened unless

4 (1h 11m 8s):
You live in Texas. They are everywhere, but they're everywhere every day. Yeah. This, this, this movie was great and not so great in the, in the same time. Like, that part was not so great. Yeah. Because it didn't make any sense. But the rest of it did make sense that people do go sideways. You know? Yeah. I thought that Who was, who played the guy that, oh, Kevin Bacon. Kevin. He played the crazy guy. Underrated

1 (1h 11m 31s):
Actor. So good. He's such a good actor.

4 (1h 11m 33s):
Very good. I would've liked to have seen him more.

1 (1h 11m 36s):
Yeah. That's the thing there was,

4 (1h 11m 37s):
Was why you have one scene.

1 (1h 11m 39s):
I agree with you.

4 (1h 11m 39s):
This fascinating guy who was already prepared.

1 (1h 11m 42s):
I agree with you. It was, it seemed like that hole in the house stuff was like a little We got it. Like Yeah, we got it. Got that part.

4 (1h 11m 48s):
Yeah. And also the tension didn't go anywhere. Yeah. They wound up being friends. Yeah. You know, like the girl and, and Julia Roberts like they, they hate each other. They bitching each other. Then they're hugging each other at one point in time. What are we doing? Yeah. What? Why'd you make them fucking cty to each other? Yeah. You know, that

1 (1h 12m 4s):
Was just that. Yeah. I didn't love, I just didn't think it was, it could have been better. Why did

4 (1h 12m 8s):
He not have his wallet on him? Like, what is all about this? Yeah. Drives there with Oh, it must have left it in my jacket and it looks fake. You're setting me up. Yeah. There's real drama. Yeah. The world is over. Yeah. There's real drama. Yeah. Why do you got this weird interpersonal drama there he is. It was good. and it, yeah, there was, and you know, it was really fascinating. There was this one weird moment where the daughter and what is the gentleman's name that the guy, same guy that's playing Bleed, right?

15 (1h 12m 35s):
Marc Ali.

4 (1h 12m 37s):
I'm not exactly sure. How do you say his name? He's awesome.

1 (1h 12m 40s):
He was great. and it, he's awesome. He was great.

4 (1h 12m 42s):
Just like when the daughter said to him, you can't trust white people. Everybody got so mad. Everybody gets so mad. Isn't this a movie? Yeah. Where two black people are in a house with white people at the end of the world. You don't think that's a reasonable thing to say? No.

1 (1h 12m 56s):
It's also part of the black psyche. They're

4 (1h 12m 59s):
Always thinking that. They're

1 (1h 13m 0s):
Always thinking like, can I trust this guy? Yeah.

4 (1h 13m 2s):
Well why wouldn't you say that? You're a young girl that's on brand. Yeah. You're a young girl with tattoos and nose rings and you say, don't trust white people. Yeah. Duh. Yeah. Duh. Why would people be upset at that? Yeah. Oh, will, could Mo Obama made this movie and this is what, this is the agenda. No, that's not, watch the movie. That's not what it's about. Or hang

1 (1h 13m 19s):
Out with black people. There's always a little something where they're, they always have it in their head a little bit. Oh, they

4 (1h 13m 24s):
Always have a story. Yeah. What did he say to you? They

1 (1h 13m 27s):
Went through some

4 (1h 13m 27s):
Trauma, like Yeah. Yeah. That's what he said to me. And you're like, whoa. That one-on-one racism when no one's around is gotta be the scariest shit. Yeah. That's gotta be the scariest shit. Yeah.

1 (1h 13m 37s):
You can't just wash away that trauma. It happened.

4 (1h 13m 39s):
Yeah. It's also, it's a movie. It's a movie about people that are experiencing heavy levels of anxiety. Yeah. Where the world is over. Yeah. There's war going on. No one knows what happened. Planes are falling from the sky. This girl's mom's dead probably. Spoiler alert.

1 (1h 13m 56s):
Well, everyone's like overreacting now to the Yeah. How, how that's been politicized. Right. Like the race stuff and the DEI. So if they see any glimpse of that, they just attach,

4 (1h 14m 5s):
They get mad. Even if it's just a reasonable part of a story. Right. I mean you gotta give people room and fiction to make realistic human beings. Yeah. If you don't think a realistic 20 something year old girl who's with her dad, where they're in a, a guest bedroom of their own fucking house because these other people Airbnb it, but the end of the world is here. You don't think you'd have some fucking shitty things to say? Yeah. Especially if there's no one's around. Especially if the

1 (1h 14m 28s):
Woman who's Julie Roberts is acting like shitty. Yeah. Yes.

4 (1h 14m 32s):
At the beginning. Yeah. Doesn't trust you. Yeah.

1 (1h 14m 34s):
Everything. Everyone's so charged now on the culture war. You can't avoid, I just posted this clip on my Instagram where I made fun of, you know, 'cause Trump came up in the releases and, and Clinton came up in the releases. Of course they say it's all been, they go, oh, that's all been debunked. It's bunked. That's what the media says. All been debunked. It's all been debunked. Even though they were, both of them were hanging out with Epstein. It's like, what? Were you hanging out with 'em? Golf? Were you guys golfing? What were you Well

4 (1h 14m 56s):
There's photos of them all together. Yeah. They

1 (1h 14m 58s):
Were at, and then Trump was at Clin Clinton's wedding was at Trump. They were, the Clinton's were at Trump's wedding. They're all like that hanging

4 (1h 15m 3s):
Out. Ghislaine was at Clinton's daughter's wedding. Exactly.

1 (1h 15m 7s):
Yeah. So, but I posted this clip and the comments are just people yelling at the other, he wasn't on it. It was, they're just, they just can't see past that.

4 (1h 15m 18s):
Also those people, a percentage of 'em are bots.

1 (1h 15m 21s):
You think so?

4 (1h 15m 22s):
A hundred percent. A hundred percent. 100%. 100%. A certain percentage of those 100%. A certain percent. There's a certain number that are not real people. It's true. Yeah. That is all what we were talking about earlier. Yeah. Foreign governance. They found so many of these sites. They found so many of these troll farms. There's videos of them. The internet research agency in Russia is completely dedicated to trolling America online and dissolving our faith in democracy.

1 (1h 15m 51s):
That must be a fun job to wake up to

4 (1h 15m 53s):
Do. Amazing. You wake

1 (1h 15m 54s):
Up, you're just like, you just

4 (1h 15m 56s):
Post. And those thoses are funny. I had Renee Dures on, she, she's one of the people that investigated it and she said there's hundreds of thousands of memes. She goes and some of 'em are really funny. Yeah. Like, I'm really laughing while I'm, while I'm like fucking documenting these things.

1 (1h 16m 8s):
It makes sense. 'cause I always felt like who's sitting around making these memes? Dude. Who? It's gotta be somebody funny's job to do

4 (1h 16m 14s):
It. There's definitely, some of 'em are just funny people. Yeah. Because my friends have made memes. Yeah. And sent me memes. 'cause it's about something that we did. Yeah. Yeah. You, it's very funny. I love memes. My favorite me are funny. My favorite kind of

1 (1h 16m 24s):
Comedy. I know You send me sometimes. Sometimes. Yeah. They're great.

4 (1h 16m 26s):
Yeah. don, don't send you enough. I get a lot of good ones here. Which one that we could never use on the air because but I'm gonna just show it to you real quick. 'cause it made me laugh so hard.

1 (1h 16m 42s):
It's horrible. It's horrible. It's horrible. It's horrible. but it gets the point across. It's horrible.

4 (1h 16m 49s):
Oh my God. There's so many of them. And you just laugh so hard. Yeah. It's no victim. No, there's no victim. No. It's just, it's just, yeah. And it's a one-on-One thing I've sent that to like my friends and they sent it to their friends we're all sent it to each other and Don don't know where it came from. Yeah. It might have come from a troll farm in Macedonia.

1 (1h 17m 6s):
No, that one seems, because it has no political implications. Right. That seems like it was, it was probably made by somebody. Well, I think with a really funny sense of

4 (1h 17m 12s):
Humor, the one of the things that they detailed is that they, they developed pages, right? So they would develop like an Instagram page or a Facebook page based on something that was popular. So maybe they would use Giannis Pop ass Clips. Right. Use a bunch of Clips of you and your characters and all your bits. And then they do it without your consent. And then, then develop a channel. They did one with a Barbie channel, like fans of Barbie dolls. They did one with like Legos. Like they'll, they'll, and then once they accumulate a following, then they'll switch it over and have it become a meme page. and I've seen this before. I went to one that I found the other day. 'cause like sometimes if a meme just stumbles across my Instagram, I, I'm very curious about this whole process.

4 (1h 17m 52s):
Like, who's making these, where are they coming from? So I clicked on the link and I went to their Instagram page and I saw a bunch of memes, but also a bunch of weird stuff and some weird political stuff. and I'm like, Hmm, what is this? So I scroll way, way, way, way, way, way, way, way back. And in the very beginning it was just like a regular page. It was like they were promoting something like some gaming thing or something like that. and it was just a regular page. and I think they'll do things like that just to try to get some traction, a following going. And then they'll start launching things. Well

1 (1h 18m 25s):
Then you can hack the algorithm. Just 'cause the algorithm picks up on the engagement. It's all computers.

5 (1h 18m 31s):
The story in the Wall Street Journal from a few years ago talks about a Los Angeles marketing company that got a bunch of smaller Instagram accounts to give them control.

4 (1h 18m 41s):
They do that and

5 (1h 18m 42s):
Then they started posting a bunch of Russian troll propaganda.

4 (1h 18m 46s):
Yeah, they'll do that. They'll trick you into like giving up your passwords. And we will handle this for you. We'll manage things and yeah. I have a friend who was, she was gonna do like a podcast with this. She's a musician, Suzanne Santo. And she was doing this interview and they were gonna do it live on like Facebook Live. So you get like a video stream. And so she's like, I'm not sure how to set it up. They're like, oh, just give us control and we'll do it and we'll do it on, on your screen. So she, you know, files all the stuff and enters in her code and her password and sends it to them and then they just shut off. Wow. And then they just took over her account and they've been doing it to a bunch of different artists.

4 (1h 19m 28s):
So if you have a hundred thousand followers or 150,000 followers now they just take over your account and then they sell Viagra or fucking, you know, Bitcoin or whatever, whatever it is. There's

1 (1h 19m 38s):
No, you can't get it back or

4 (1h 19m 39s):
Report. Well, she got it back. Yeah. She, she got it back. Luckily she, you know, protests and she knew people and she got it back. Wow. But you, you could lose it forever easily. Russian trolls made fake kid rock fan accounts and fooled Donald Trump Jr. That's what I'm saying, man. It's like, it's not a small number of people. No, I think it's a lot. Yeah. Like I think Renee dur Resta was speaking about this from the 2016 elections.

1 (1h 20m 4s):
Yeah. Well remember that whole, the, the kid, the Covington kids, it was some account in Brazil that edited the video to start it. So it looked like the, like he came up

4 (1h 20m 14s):
To them that

1 (1h 20m 15s):
The guy, the kid came up to the, is that what it was? Yeah, it was some account in Brazil. Some fake accountant Brazil. Interesting. And yeah, they, they looked for moments to try to, so discord

4 (1h 20m 25s):
100%. Yeah. That more that we can, they can get us at each other's throats. It's, it, it almost seems engineered.

1 (1h 20m 34s):
It is engineered.

4 (1h 20m 35s):
But I mean, it almost seems engineered that we fall for it.

1 (1h 20m 37s):
Well,

4 (1h 20m 38s):
I think that our government doesn't step in and say, Hey, look at what's going on here. We need to figure out a way to mitigate this. I

1 (1h 20m 43s):
Think they have been, I think they've been bringing it up. They've been trying to, what they've

4 (1h 20m 46s):
Really been doing is trying to get at people that criticize the government. That's what they really try to do. They try to ban accounts that do things that they don't like. And that's what that's been shown. The Twitter files.

1 (1h 20m 56s):
They for sure.

4 (1h 20m 56s):
But there's not the same kind of emphasis in going after Russian trolls. They're trying to sow discord and try to encourage, you know, reasonable conversations there. There's not, there's not an emphasis on that. Well I

1 (1h 21m 8s):
Think this, that's more the social media company's responsibility. and I don't think they wanted to do it because it inflated engagement. And they could go to their shareholders and say, look how popular our pages are. We got a trillion members and like half of 'em are fake and look at all this engagement and half it's fake. They don't wanna say half of it's fake 'cause it looked good for the stock.

4 (1h 21m 26s):
We've talked about this before, but there's this guy who was a former, was he an FBI security analyst? Is that what he was, Jamie, that said that 80% of the accounts on Twitter may be fake.

1 (1h 21m 35s):
That makes sense. 80.

4 (1h 21m 36s):
That's

1 (1h 21m 37s):
A lot. Because you always meet regular people and they're like, what? I'm like, did you see what happened on Twitter? They're like, what? What are you talking about man?

4 (1h 21m 43s):
But I don't know what that means. Does that mean 80% of the accounts are accounts where people have burner accounts? Or like what percentage of 'em are just burner accounts? Because there's a bunch of I know some comics that have burner accounts or say wild shit.

1 (1h 21m 55s):
Just,

4 (1h 21m 57s):
Just login through a fucking VPN and say some wild shit.

1 (1h 22m 1s):
Yeah. don don't have any burners. I don

4 (1h 22m 3s):
Don don't have any burners. I don't have any time for my own accounts. Yeah. don don't wanna do a burner account. But if I did

1 (1h 22m 7s):
You have some fun? I'd

4 (1h 22m 8s):
Have some fun. There's

5 (1h 22m 9s):
A, there's a few I follow online. Yeah. They get people like on the s pn to repost a, a fake tweet All of the, all the time.

4 (1h 22m 17s):
Yeah.

5 (1h 22m 18s):
Like daily they, they just word it or make the meme or the picture look so good or so. Right. and it just sounds outrageous enough. Like so and so was fighting about something crazy and they just repost it without checking

4 (1h 22m 28s):
Into it. Oh yeah. That sounds like me. How many, how many times have we had something that I heard and I'm like, what is this? I heard. And then Jamie has to look it up. Oh, this is what it's actually about. Oh,

5 (1h 22m 40s):
That

1 (1h 22m 40s):
Happens. Yeah. That's the world

4 (1h 22m 41s):
We live in. Listen, that's what happens when you, if you want to do the show for real like this, like if you want the show to be what it is, which is just talking shit in real time, you're gonna make some mistakes. I'm gonna say some things that I heard about, they might not be true. Yeah. But is that really my fault? Like, should we really be paying attention to that? Or should we paying attention to, how are we so fucking confused? How are there so many trolls? How, how much money is being spent to make us mad at each other? All day long,

1 (1h 23m 10s):
A lot of money. Yeah.

4 (1h 23m 12s):
From foreign. How do agents, how do you develop immunity to that? How do you develop antibodies to that? How do you develop an ability to just not be affected by that and to have some sort of a moral ethical personality comp like a compass where, you know where north is?

1 (1h 23m 28s):
Well this is all new. Never before has so much information been never available to people and so many different versions of reality presented. Yeah. So it's new. Whatever is gonna emerge, it will be like some sort of superhuman who can be able to have unbelievable intuition and just know maybe like this will force humans to evolve to a point where we can like mind read or any little face tick will be able to tell if you're lying or something like that. Right. Everyone else will get fooled. But the ones who be we're able to tell the truth will be able to just like, really like, ah, his eye moved. I know he's lying. Bullshit.

4 (1h 24m 2s):
Yeah. Like think about like voice memos. You know how you say voice memos? Like you could say into your phone call Yannis Pappas today at four o'clock and it writes it down in text. That's kind of how a computer is at picking up whether you're full of shit. But you're a lot better than that. If you're talking to someone, you're like, why didn't you meet us? There he is like, oh, there's this thing I had to do is like, I forgot to tell Mike I I I left my keys in my house. You know, like there's something about the way they're talking. You're like, oh, he seems full of shit. Like you just pick up at it. Yeah. Or like, are you mad? No, I'm not mad. Okay. And there's something you're like, no dude, you're mad.

4 (1h 24m 43s):
Tell me what's going on. Why are you mad? What's going on? Just let's talk. Why are you mad? Yeah.

1 (1h 24m 49s):
Computers are as good as that. Yeah.

4 (1h 24m 50s):
Computers are gonna say, I'm not mad. Okay, good. It's not mad. Yeah. But you're like, dude, you're upset.

1 (1h 24m 55s):
Let me ask you this. Do you think it matters? Do you think the truth matters? Does it matter

4 (1h 24m 60s):
In what way?

1 (1h 25m 1s):
Like is what do you mean? Like, is is there like massive consequences to living in a fantasy world or believing lies or making up stories or stealing stuff? Or like plagiarizing like, you know, bidet was caught doing like, you know, Claudine gay was a big story. Now they're going after Eichmann's wife. Like does it matter, does originality matter? Does being genuine matter and why and why not? Like, it's an interesting thing because I think this is definitely not the era for being genuine. This is the era of like, I wanna make you believe what I want you to believe. For my benefit,

4 (1h 25m 38s):
I, I tend to be a glass is half full guy. So I say no, this is the age of being genuine because that other stuff is everywhere. And if you wanna really just have actual connections with humans, just actually be a real human. Like be there. And the only way you could do that is if you're being truthful. Now if you're plagiarizing and you're also trying to connect with people and you're trying to pretend that you're the person that figured these things out. I don't know you, I don't know your capabilities now 'cause they've been greatly inflated by you repeating someone else's work and trying to pawn it off as your own. But that's rewarded.

1 (1h 26m 18s):
It seems to be rewarded.

4 (1h 26m 19s):
Yeah. It's also bus bus for a while. Yeah. But it's being busted now, right? People are being busted. And when you step outta line like Claudine Gay did at that, when they're speaking, was it a congresswoman? They're speaking to, they were asking her about like Yes. Is saying death to the Jews. Is that harassment? Yeah. And they're like, is it, if it's actionable, they're like,

1 (1h 26m 36s):
Well,

4 (1h 26m 37s):
It's the craziest thing I've ever

1 (1h 26m 39s):
Seen about What were they wearing when they said it? How did they say it?

4 (1h 26m 42s):
It just shows how far this mind virus is taking people in academia. They're, they're literally out of their fucking minds and they're shaping young minds and they're influenced heavily by foreign governments. That has always been the case. That is what Yuri Beov talked about in the 1980s. That's

1 (1h 27m 3s):
Right. I've seen that video. That

4 (1h 27m 5s):
Video is wild. Yeah. And he talks about introducing Marxism and Leninism into universities and education and making, changing the narrative for young people destroying their faith in democracy. And it's exactly what's happening. Yeah. And these people are a part of that system and they don't realize how fucking crazy it is. How fucking crazy it is that you're doing this. Yeah.

1 (1h 27m 30s):
They just not, they don't realize they're being manipulated. They don't know what the source is. They don't know what the intention is. They

4 (1h 27m 36s):
Those people in San Francisco with the masks on dancing around. Yeah. Because that's their world. Yeah. That's, that's their environment. Their environment is fucking crazy.

1 (1h 27m 44s):
Everyone's kind of in a bubble. It's interesting. Yeah. Yeah. And as comics we meet, we see the different bubbles by going from this city to that city. Yeah. Like, whoa. A lot of people, most people don't get the opportunity to do that. So they just think their bubble is the way it is.

4 (1h 27m 58s):
Yeah.

1 (1h 27m 59s):
And they don't see the other perspective.

4 (1h 28m 1s):
Yeah. If you don't travel a little, you don't meet different kinds of people. You don't know that different kinds of people exist. Like when I lived in Boston, like you get used to like that kind of people. You know, like, fucking, fucking hot ass, fucking just hardworking. No bullshit. I gotta shovel snow people.

1 (1h 28m 18s):
Is there a version of you that stays in Boston, meets some wrong Italian kids? You get a nickname like Joey Mule kicks.

4 (1h 28m 26s):
Yeah,

1 (1h 28m 27s):
I could've stayed. He's like, fuck you kid.

4 (1h 28m 28s):
Hey, if I didn't do standup, I would've probably still be there. Yeah. Yeah. don don't know how I would've figured out a way to travel the country without standup. Yeah. don don't know if I've, I would've gone anywhere. I probably would've just stayed in Boston. Complained about the winter every year. Yeah. Maybe a bunch of my friends, as we got older, we decided to escape to Florida.

1 (1h 28m 46s):
Yeah. You go all inclusive. Yeah. Maybe a little Cancun action.

4 (1h 28m 49s):
Nah, you're not gonna live in Cancun.

1 (1h 28m 51s):
No. Do an all vacation. Yeah, a little

4 (1h 28m 53s):
Vacation. Yeah. But I'm talking about moving.

1 (1h 28m 54s):
Oh, moving. Oh, that's the dream.

4 (1h 28m 56s):
I'm gonna stay. Oh yeah, yeah. You're gonna, but most likely I'm gonna stay in Boston.

1 (1h 28m 60s):
You're not gonna move to Florida

4 (1h 29m 1s):
Bus and I not gonna be going on the road. No. Like as a comic, you do ridiculous. You're in Ohio, then you're in Mississippi, then you're in Florida, then you're in Michigan, then you're in Nevada, then you're in Utah. Yeah. You're going all over the fucking place. Yeah. As a comedian. Yeah. That's, that's an education in humans.

1 (1h 29m 19s):
Such an education. Yeah. Such an education. I speak to my brother all the time about that. Like, he doesn't see the world. He lives in DC and sometimes I'll, I'll send him stuff like, you know, making fun of Nancy Pelosi or whatever and he like, just can't, he can't process it. And I'm like, you live in a bubble. You are just in a, and he, at one point he was, I do and I wanna stay in it. I wanna stay in that bubble.

4 (1h 29m 45s):
Well, if you're busy, I get it. Yeah. For them the answer does is truth important? No, no, no. Do can they get Uber Eats? That's, is Netflix on? Is Netflix on? Are they getting a raise at work? And

1 (1h 29m 57s):
We're not really a truth seeking animal. The truth is uncomfortable. The truth is uncomfortable. It's it, it's tedious. It can be, it can be vicious. It could be mean. We're not a depends. That's why I think we're so susceptible to marketing and advertising. Nobody wants to know the real truth. Nobody wants to know how the sausage is made. Everyone wants to just believe the image that they see on the screen. Nobody wants to know the truth. And that's why I think there's a lot, there's often not a lot of consequences when people are caught being inauthentic because people wanna believe it. Like, who do you blame? Really? I mean the, the Conner or the con I mean the con complicit. You're, you wanna believe,

4 (1h 30m 31s):
I think we're about five years away from mind reading. I think it all goes out the window

1 (1h 30m 36s):
Once we can mind read.

4 (1h 30m 38s):
God. Yeah. I think within five years it's all out the window.

1 (1h 30m 42s):
That's gonna be

4 (1h 30m 42s):
Interesting. Have you seen the new Galaxy AI phones?

1 (1h 30m 45s):
I'm not scared of it. Put

4 (1h 30m 46s):
It in. Have, have you seen these new Galaxy AI phones that translate in real time? No. They translate in real time in language audio rather. And in text. So you have a phone, you set the phone down, like we would have a phone, we'd set it down here and one half would be facing you. The other half would be facing me. Like the text is upside down so that you could read the text and I would say into it, you know, in whatever language, you know, Hey Giannis, you wanna go to lunch and it would translate into whatever language you have and then say it out in real time. So the way it's when it sets up to do it, like where you see, so you can do it a couple different ways. One, you can do it when you're calling people, it's on a call. The one on the screen.

4 (1h 31m 27s):
Yeah. So you're calling people and as they're talking back, it will translate it in real time. and it would also translate, if you're wearing, I think the Galaxy earbuds, it'll translate it in audio. So it'll give you whatever that person's saying in English.

1 (1h 31m 44s):
Wow.

4 (1h 31m 44s):
And then you say it back to them and it will translate it in Thai or whatever they're speaking.

1 (1h 31m 50s):
Wow.

4 (1h 31m 50s):
Yeah.

1 (1h 31m 51s):
We're headed, we're headed into an interesting

4 (1h 31m 53s):
Place. So Right. So once you get to that, once you get to this where there's language is no longer a barrier. So this is the beginning, right? This, this galaxy, I, this is like the best smartphone that you could buy right now. This is the beginning. And then what this is really is like Atari, right. You know, this is like some shitty pixelated version of a video game that you play within 10, 15 years. It's going to be the Unreal five engine. It's gonna be some insanely sophisticated way where the moment you and I talk, we're gonna have earbuds in and we're gonna be able to speak all languages. I'll, I'll know exactly what you're saying. You'll know exactly what I'm saying. And it'll be razor focused. It'll have it down to, there'll be a few confusions and words and stuff like that.

4 (1h 32m 36s):
But they'll iron that shit out over time. And then there'll be universal discussions, universal talk. And then we'll all be connected into some sort of a hive mind. Some sort of a matrix of frequencies that the brain is interacting with, with all the other people around us. So you're gonna be able to do all this without using words. And we're all gonna be reading each other's minds. And you're gonna know intentions, you're gonna know truth, you're gonna know deception. You're gonna know, hate, anger, lust. You're gonna know when someone wants to fuck you. You, you're gonna know when someone wants to run away from you, you're gonna know everything.

1 (1h 33m 10s):
Wow. That's gonna be, that's gonna, it's

4 (1h 33m 13s):
Gonna be a different kind of person. It's gonna

1 (1h 33m 14s):
Be a different kind of world.

4 (1h 33m 15s):
Yeah. People would say, oh my God, that I mean what, what? What would we even be then? How could I live like that? How could you live the way you live now in a metal box with rubber tires going 70 miles an hour down at a, a hardened surface. They threw over the grass. So you can get to your air conditioned house where you got a refrigerator with food in it and sit in front of a television that just like pumps in other people's artwork into your fucking brain. So you pass out and then you wake up in the morning and do it all again. You don't think that's crazy?

1 (1h 33m 46s):
That's a great description of it. That's

4 (1h 33m 48s):
Fucking insane. That's insane. And that's everyday life. Yeah. That's normal. It's normal to you to be completely connected to your phone. Un incapable of leaving it in the house and going for a walk.

1 (1h 34m 1s):
Yeah. Yeah. And we live like that now and we figured it out. So we'll figure

4 (1h 34m 5s):
It out. Mind reading things coming son. Yeah, it's coming. It's gonna be a totally different way of thinking. Just like right now with the internet and with the, the access to information that we have now, it's a completely different way of finding out what's true or what's not true.

1 (1h 34m 18s):
Yeah. Even if you think about the world, the way the world's changed, just by how criminals can't get away with doing crime. Like there's cameras everywhere. There's DNA everywhere. Everywhere. I think that's probably why serial killers have gone away is because they haven't. They haven't. Well I mean they've lessened a lot,

4 (1h 34m 32s):
Right? Yeah. But there's a lot of random, you could do random stuff. Did you see? Oh, robot Imagine Reimagines the digital experience with AI powered R one device. What is that called? A rabbit?

5 (1h 34m 42s):
What is it got shown it. CES. I'll show just the video that Lewis made for Mumbox therapy describes it pretty quickly. I was trying to find a better video, but this I think does a really good job. This kind of replaces the phone and we'll see if people really

17 (1h 34m 55s):
Tease it on their new AI powered device. It's got a grill on it. I could, it could be for the speaker, it could be for the mic. Oh, it's definitely a hardware device. Oh, there's the mics on the top. It is like voice as the primary input. It has a rotating camera and I saw a little sim door as well. So cellular, so standalone.

5 (1h 35m 16s):
Start my morning routine, order me an Uber, check the fridge,

18 (1h 35m 19s):
Order the ingredients to make that again tomorrow.

4 (1h 35m 21s):
Watch

19 (1h 35m 21s):
What I'm doing here. Process all my new photos today, just like this.

4 (1h 35m 24s):
Okay. Massage my prostate. Yeah.

5 (1h 35m 27s):
Well I mean

4 (1h 35m 28s):
Feed me cake. Massage my prostate, figure

1 (1h 35m 31s):
Out what my wife wants to eat the last bit of this and it goes, can't compute.

5 (1h 35m 33s):
It costs 200 bucks and it's coming out very soon. Mm. but it can do stuff for you. And how, I don't

4 (1h 35m 39s):
Really know. Right. But but the thing about phones is social media, it's TikTok, it's YouTube, it's Instagram. It's being able to see things over and over and over and over again if that doesn't have a screen or that little bitchy ass screen. Oh. And it's mostly just talking into it. That's,

5 (1h 35m 54s):
There's other devices that are coming out now to replacing that. There's these very simple, they're, they're cheap tooth 27 inch screens that will follow you around your house. What bear with you all the time.

4 (1h 36m 3s):
27 inches. Yeah. Touchscreen.

5 (1h 36m 4s):
It follows you. It's full of apps. I'm sure it's an Android device. So

4 (1h 36m 7s):
Wait a minute, does it float it

5 (1h 36m 9s):
Like a robot right now? It's like a little Roomba robot that can charge for seven hours.

4 (1h 36m 13s):
You imagine everywhere you walk, you a giant screen with you get nothing done. Yeah.

1 (1h 36m 17s):
Yeah. How about the, the Apple goggles are coming out that,

5 (1h 36m 20s):
That's the other part of it too, is that you're gonna decide if you wanna wear these goggles or here's the LG one.

4 (1h 36m 24s):
So what I was saying though about that Galaxy phone is AI that allows you to translate like that now allows you to do a bunch of other different things. One of the things that allows you to do, like if there's a photo, like if someone sends you something, you just circle it and it'll do immediate Google search of what that thing is. It'll tell you what that thing is. It'll either, you could buy it, it'll give you like links where it's for sale, it'll give you a history on it. It'll take you to a Wikipedia page and whatever that thing is. Yeah.

1 (1h 36m 50s):
It's like chat, chat. GBT does that pretty well

4 (1h 36m 53s):
Now. But it's in your phone. It's in your phone. Yeah. You just circle things. Yeah. and it just goes right to them. Yeah. It's crazy. And it's also able to summarize things now. Like see, like say if you sit down with your phone and you make a bunch of voice notes, like you go on a rant about something, you're like, oh I know there's something funny in this. I don't wanna work it out totally on stage. Lemme work it out in my office. And you just go on a rant about this thing. It will then transcribe it and then you could say summarize this for me. Wow. Yeah. and it will summarize it into bullet points and paragraphs. Yeah.

1 (1h 37m 24s):
Well, I know now on your phone. Yeah. I, with chat GBT you could go on there now and go give me a joke in the style of Joe Rogan. Yeah. And it'll give you a joke. And then people could probably just change a few things and Yep. It's gonna, I don't know what being genuine is gonna mean in the future.

4 (1h 37m 40s):
Well, I think it's gonna lead us to be more inclined to give into this mind reading thing, because the, the opposite is gonna be too much chaos. The, the, if it's one or the other, it's either complete chaos. You never know what's true or you know everything that's true. And we all have to agree that this is the best way. The thing about that is, if you know every, if everybody has to wear it dictators, everyone that ruins the entire hustle, it ruins everything instantaneously. You can't pull off anything anymore. Right. All the people in Congress that are committing insider trading, all the people that are in the military industrial complex that are in inflating dangers to try to get us involved in a military conflict that's gonna get them a giant fat contract, they're gonna make large dollars.

1 (1h 38m 29s):
And then if you try to, you see it all, if you try to persecute somebody for a thought that they had, then they'll find out that if you had the same thought and they're like, you're full

4 (1h 38m 38s):
Shit, man. Or they'll also give, why are they mad at you for that? Yeah. Are they really upset? Are they being charitable with their assessment of the way you think and behave? Or are they just trying to play some stupid social game and win some little conflict with you and just get,

1 (1h 38m 54s):
You think it'll get that sophisticated? Yeah. Will it understand the context of your feelings? A

4 (1h 38m 58s):
Hundred percent. Yeah. I think it'll be a new language. I think it's, I think it'll eventually evolve into a universal language. So if, if we are going to be interconnected with ai, which with this new Galaxy phone, the S 24 Ultra, you clearly are interconnected with AI in your phone. It's actually built into your phone. They've engineered the, the chip to work specifically with AI in that phone. This stuff is only gonna get better, man. Right. It's only gonna get better. and I, I see it getting better to a point where we are probably going to be integrated physically with these things.

4 (1h 39m 40s):
Whether it's something that you wear, like a little headset that you wear or something that they put in your body. And it's going to be way better with it than it is without it in the beginning. Most people aren't gonna do it. But once they get it dialed in and they've developed some sort of, whether it's Neuralink and there's a bunch of different competitors that are doing similar sorts of technology, once they've figured out a way to really enhance your brain and really enhance your ability to gather information and process information and supercharge it, everybody that has, that will have such a significant advantage over everybody that doesn't that, that

1 (1h 40m 17s):
Everyone's gonna do it.

4 (1h 40m 18s):
We have a real risk of people not doing it.

1 (1h 40m 20s):
Right. People are gonna have to do it. Right.

4 (1h 40m 22s):
Because what if Kim Jong-un does it right, and just takes over the world. Right. What if the people that do it just are the, the worst people alive? And they just use that as to we're gonna lock everything down, starve the world out. Central Bank, digital currency, fucking drones everywhere. No one gets away with anything. No one gets a chip, but me. Right.

1 (1h 40m 41s):
Right.

4 (1h 40m 42s):
Yeah. If you become a God, you

1 (1h 40m 43s):
Become a super Genius and there's way to stop. There's no way to stop the progression of te

4 (1h 40m 47s):
Yeah. Impossible. The only way is an asteroid. Yeah. Something big. We, we'd have to have like a natural disaster that sends us back into the stone age. That might be the only way to stop ai.

1 (1h 40m 58s):
Right. Well, hopefully we

4 (1h 40m 59s):
Can. Or nuclear war.

1 (1h 40m 60s):
We can divert that with nuclear weapons or something. Maybe that will come in handy. I don't think they could do that yet for something. Yeah. They probably can't. don don't think they can do that yet. But hopefully they will be able to. Maybe

4 (1h 41m 9s):
Yeah. Someday. Yeah. But right now, don don't think they could do that. I think we're pretty far out.

1 (1h 41m 13s):
Yeah. Something's gonna hit us eventually.

4 (1h 41m 16s):
A hundred percent. Yeah.

1 (1h 41m 17s):
Something was gonna hit us. Yeah. You look at the Moon, it's just been fucking hit so many times.

4 (1h 41m 22s):
Hammer. Yeah. I was like a teenage kid with terrible acne. Yeah.

1 (1h 41m 26s):
Looks like it's bad.

4 (1h 41m 28s):
Tane commercial. Yeah. Yeah. We've been hit, man. 100%. And we're gonna get hit again. We're in a shooting gallery.

1 (1h 41m 35s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 41m 36s):
Flying around through the universe, shooting gallery.

1 (1h 41m 38s):
There's things just flying out there. But

4 (1h 41m 41s):
They can, yeah. It's a mad race. It's a mad race to get to the point where you could defend it. Have the technology and the ability to manipulate, whether it's asteroids, comets, natural disasters, super volcanoes, being able to manipulate things in real time. And

1 (1h 41m 54s):
Once you have kids, you root for 'em. You're like, let's do it. Yeah. Let's keep going. Yeah. Yeah. I can understand. If people don't have kids, like what? Who cares? Let it blow up. Once you have kids, you're like, no, survive. Let's all survive. Keep it going.

4 (1h 42m 6s):
I get the, I don't want to have kids. I don't want the responsibility. I get it. But what I don't get is that, you know, we don't, the world does need more people. Do you like people? Because I like people.

1 (1h 42m 18s):
Love

4 (1h 42m 18s):
People. My favorite friends are people. Yeah.

1 (1h 42m 21s):
That's what we're doing here is making people. Yeah. Yeah. That's what we supposed to love.

4 (1h 42m 24s):
Do People, I love people. The idea that we shouldn't make more people seems fucking insane.

1 (1h 42m 29s):
It's crazy. Especially when you do it and then you feel the love that you have for your kids and you're like, this is the greatest thing. And then you just become a better person. Yeah. You just become, everything about it is positive. Everything about having kids is positive

4 (1h 42m 42s):
For most people.

1 (1h 42m 44s):
I can't see how it's negative unless, well, you're a fucked up person. You,

4 (1h 42m 47s):
You're to be a fucked up person. Yeah. Yeah.

1 (1h 42m 49s):
But if you're a little bit of a fucked up person, having kids makes you a better person.

4 (1h 42m 53s):
It's, I've definitely seen that happen before. Yeah. Where people experience the love of their child and they just straighten their life out. Yeah. But I've also seen people fall apart.

1 (1h 43m 0s):
Yeah. Well it,

4 (1h 43m 2s):
You know, some people just, they'd fall apart, man. Some people fall apart,

1 (1h 43m 6s):
But they were gonna fall apart over something else anyway. Exactly. Yeah.

4 (1h 43m 9s):
Yeah. Anything. Yeah. Some people just, they want, they, they get addicted also to being picked up. They wanna fall apart 'cause they want all the attention that comes with falling apart. Yeah. As

1 (1h 43m 18s):
You got your borderline personalities and Yeah. people like that. Yeah. It's, humans are fascinating. So fascinating. They're so, they're more fascinating than the universe. They're so complex. It's,

4 (1h 43m 30s):
That's why like one dimensional, politically minded, ideology driven people online are so insane to me. Like, so insane to have that view of humans. You have this completely binary view of humans. This the good people and the bad people. The right and the left. And like, you know, the morons and the, the smart people in the room. Like, okay,

1 (1h 43m 57s):
Well we have these loopholes in our, like the confirmation bias. We have these, just these loopholes where we can be manipulated. It's just, that's

4 (1h 44m 5s):
How cults get started.

1 (1h 44m 6s):
Yeah. It's just, it's there. It's a weakness. It's a vulnerability that people have that Yeah. They're almost defenseless to like, they're subconscious and there's, there's people can, there's manipulative People know how to hack that shit. They know how to manipulate. They do it. They do it very effectively. Marketers do it all the time. Advertisers do it all the time. and it works. There's this guy, Darren Brown, nobody explained it better than Darren Brown. Who's this medium. You know who he is.

4 (1h 44m 32s):
I've had him on.

1 (1h 44m 32s):
Oh man. He's the, he's, if everyone just watched him manipulate people and then explain how he did it, you'd be like, yeah, we we're, we're all prey to this. Nobody can see it coming. Yeah. That one episode where he convinces that, I think he's a famous comedian in England. It was the craziest thing. He brings him in, he makes him write a week ago what his ideal gift would be. And then he makes him put it in an envelope and his ideal present and, and seal it up. And then he brings it in. Then he brings it in a room. He puts him through this whole thing and he goes, okay, now what's your ideal president? And he changes it to the thing that he wanted it to be. He's like, it's a red bike.

1 (1h 45m 13s):
I want a red bike. And then he opens the box, it's a red bike. And then they opened the letter to see what he said. and it was a leather jacket. And he even, he forgot what he wanted. And he said, I walked into the room going, it's got a leather jacket. Leather jacket. But he manipulated him with suggestion and images and words that he said. And he changed what his actual ideal gift would be. Wow. And real. It's like, and you go, and then he explains to you how he did it. He shows you how he did it. You're like, none of us are, have the defenses to stop that.

4 (1h 45m 45s):
That's crazy. Yeah. Well, it's just like that thing that you were saying that you do for your mind.

1 (1h 45m 49s):
EDMR.

4 (1h 45m 50s):
Like there's a sys You can kinda like hack it. Yeah. Hack it. You hack it, you hack it, you hack the brain

1 (1h 45m 54s):
And then reprocess the memories, which essentially after you reprocess the memories, you end up remembering them that way. And the emotional charge gets removed. And that, that's how it

4 (1h 46m 3s):
Goes. Now imagine AI hacking it. Yeah. And that's what these chips are gonna be. That's what these things, whatever these things are that are gonna be in your brain, they're gonna map it out. They're gonna find out why things do this and why things do that. And then just reprogram the whole thing.

1 (1h 46m 21s):
It's gonna be crazy

4 (1h 46m 23s):
And it's gonna happen in our lifetime. It's crazy. We're we're the last of the meat humans.

1 (1h 46m 32s):
We're gonna, we're gonna have metal in us.

4 (1h 46m 34s):
Yeah. Not just metal silicone. Yeah. Technology batteries. We're the last of the meat humans. Do

1 (1h 46m 40s):
You think our body's gonna reject it at first? People will get like infections, cancers like, you can't just put something in the brain. The the body rejects foreign objects.

4 (1h 46m 49s):
Yeah, it does. but it doesn't pacemakers work. There's a lot of things work. True,

1 (1h 46m 52s):
True.

4 (1h 46m 53s):
You just have to find something that's hypoallergenic and find something that's maybe organic. Some something that the body will integrate. Just like it integrates with titanium neck discs.

1 (1h 47m 2s):
True backs and, well, you gotta take like some antibiotics. Shit.

4 (1h 47m 6s):
No, you don't have to if you get like plates in your arms and shit. No, no. Like if you get a broken arm and they put screws in there and plates. You don't have to nothing. Take antibiotics forever. You do initially. Yeah. That's just because you've been cut. It's really has nothing to, to do with the metal. Oh, okay. It's, you've just been cut open and you're, you're exposed and you know, you getting MRSA, you know, medication resistant staph infections. Oh good. Those put people in the hospital for months. They kill people. They

1 (1h 47m 31s):
Kill you too. Yeah. They kill

4 (1h 47m 32s):
People. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's some sketchy shit. Yeah. So like, if you can put like a titanium rod in your shin, they could put a little fucking thing in your spinal cord that's gonna be just a little, fucking little thing that you screw in place every day. You know, you leave it charging by the bed when you go to sleep. Yeah. And you screw it back in place. And

1 (1h 47m 52s):
It's gonna be locked into

4 (1h 47m 54s):
The insane, locked into the real matrix.

1 (1h 47m 55s):
What would a conversation be like if we knew what was going? You'd be like, Giannis, calm down I know you're nervous. Just relax. No, no, no. That's, you'd be like, no, no, no. Well,

4 (1h 48m 3s):
The argument is we're gonna create an artificial life

1 (1h 48m 5s):
And I'd be like, Joe, pay attention. I know you're thinking about Marshall. Stop it. I'm here. We'd be like, it may be weird at first it'd be weird. Yeah. At first

4 (1h 48m 13s):
It'd probably be annoying. Yeah. It'd be the end of art. Yeah.

1 (1h 48m 15s):
I'd say thank you. And be, and Jamie would be like, for what? I'd be like, well, Joe just thought that my hair looks good. He

4 (1h 48m 22s):
Would just say, thank you with your mind. Yeah. You would go

1 (1h 48m 24s):
Like that. So we just sit in silence. Yeah. Will we just sit and make facial expressions at each other?

4 (1h 48m 28s):
That was one of the first things Elon said about it. Yeah. He said, you're gonna be able to talk without words. Yeah.

1 (1h 48m 33s):
Is he, do you think he'll be more like socially good whim when you're Yeah. You think his mind version will be like really on it? Like as far as like timing and socially, because sometimes he'll pause, you know, you ever, he,

4 (1h 48m 49s):
But he pauses 'cause he actually thinks he's thinking he's not bullshitting you. Yeah. If you ask him a question. No, he goes, and it's a complex question. He'll, he'll sit there. Yeah. And he will run it through his head and really think that's, that's a, the sign of a genuine, intelligent

1 (1h 49m 2s):
Person. That's

4 (1h 49m 2s):
Shit. Yeah. That's not a person that's just bullshitting for the masses. Yeah.

1 (1h 49m 6s):
I, it's, it's understandable that he's socially a little weird because his brain is doing a lot of fucking shit. Yeah. Yeah. His brain's going through a lot of things.

4 (1h 49m 14s):
Yeah. I asked him about it. I'm like, what's it like being you? He goes, he wouldn't wanna be me

1 (1h 49m 18s):
And his brain's just going,

4 (1h 49m 19s):
He, because I, I thought everybody was like that when I was young. That everyone just had these ideas just running through their head All day long. Yeah. It took him a while to realize, yeah.

1 (1h 49m 28s):
Some people, some people don't.

4 (1h 49m 30s):
Some people don't. Most people don't. But I mean that's the kind of guy you need. If you want someone who makes extra cars and rockets and fucking satellite internet and Yeah. And buys Twitter.

1 (1h 49m 41s):
And that's why you need a system like we have that allows those people to rise.

4 (1h 49m 45s):
Yeah. Yeah. Well also you need a guy with balls. Like Elon had the balls to step in and buy Twitter.

1 (1h 49m 54s):
Yeah. And reinstate loss.

4 (1h 49m 55s):
Some fucking shaky ass people.

1 (1h 49m 57s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 49m 59s):
I mean that's a loss there because the advertisers are probably like, Hey, who are you putting back on? Yeah.

1 (1h 50m 2s):
And then he said when they were like, you're gonna blackmail me with money, fuck

4 (1h 50m 6s):
You. Yeah. Yeah. Fuck you. Go fuck

1 (1h 50m 8s):
Yourself. Go fuck yourself.

4 (1h 50m 9s):
Yeah. Yeah. I mean that's really how he feels. Yeah. When you've got that kind of scratch and he just keeps making more money, you know, how much is SpaceX gonna be worth, you know, how much is, how much is the boring company gonna work once they start actually fixing traffic with tunnels? Yeah. Shooting cars on the ground. I mean this is an insane guy.

1 (1h 50m 29s):
Well, he's essentially done what like Walmart does to small businesses. But he did it for a good reason. Yeah. To try to promote free speech. 'cause Walmart just goes in, loses money for a bit until they, they charge you cheaper, lose money for a bit until they put you outta business and then they recoup their losses. It's,

4 (1h 50m 43s):
Well, I wouldn't connect it to that. I wouldn't compare it to that. What I would say is, this is probably, from what I've read, I haven't actually discussed this with him, but what, what I've read is that this is one step in a multi-step process of turning Twitter now X into an app you use for everything. Ah, used for banking. They already have an AI that's attached to it. What was it called? Grok? Yeah. Why is it called grok? What does grok stand for? It

1 (1h 51m 7s):
Has to do gr means like, do you understands from one of the movies? Oh yeah. Because the word grok means like, do you understand? Do you fathom it? Do you, oh really? Yeah.

4 (1h 51m 15s):
In what language?

1 (1h 51m 15s):
Like do gr in English. Oh really? Yeah. Grok. GRO shit. Yeah.

4 (1h 51m 20s):
Whoa. Oh, that's a perfect name for AI then. Yeah, that's the, that's so cool. I never, I've, I've literally never heard that word. I thought it was,

1 (1h 51m 28s):
Someone's used a lot. It's word used architects

4 (1h 51m 30s):
Actually the reason it says that's why they named it that. Yeah. Ah, that makes sense. So they have the ai, right? So they have gr Now just think about how much open AI is worth the AI model called gr. No, you son of a bitch. Motherfuckers.

1 (1h 51m 43s):
Yeah. They always make you try to

4 (1h 51m 44s):
Subscribe motherfuckers and you're god damn. The AI model called grok a name that means to understand in tech circles is designed to answer questions with a bit of wit and has a rebellious streak. So please don't use it if you hate humor where reads an announcement on the company's website. Okay. But how much is open AI worth? Like how much is that company worth? How much is chat GPT worth? Just Google that. What's chat? GPT worth. So chat, GPT is the one that people have been using. Yeah. And talking about more than any of the other ones. I do know that Microsoft has one. So it's worth what, how much you have to ask the

1 (1h 52m 24s):
Right what you said

4 (1h 52m 25s):
Before. What is the value of chat? GPD? What is, how much is chat? Yeah. 29 billion. Okay.

1 (1h 52m 34s):
According to zach johnson.com,

4 (1h 52m 36s):
Open AI is an American research organization with a current net worth of approximately 29 billion. This says a hundred billion. This one says a hundred billion. This is December 23rd. So this is really recently open AI valuation of 100 billion in sight with funding round. And that's from Fortune. Okay. So it's in sight. So let's just, let's just call it 80 billion. Well he bought for Twitter for 44. So even if Twitter's only worth 19 now if this rock takes off, that has a potential to be a, a competitor to something like this and to be just as big. Yeah. If people really start using AI for everything and it seems like they're gonna start using it and they can incorporate it into devices and a bunch of different things and different ways to use it.

4 (1h 53m 16s):
So you have that. Then you have multimedia streaming. He's doing the Tucker Carlson show, which is there and I think you made a

1 (1h 53m 23s):
Deal Don Lemon. Yeah. What

4 (1h 53m 24s):
Was, who's gonna watch that? And then maybe

1 (1h 53m 27s):
It'll be a wild version of Don Lemon Le I mean it's a wild version of Tucker Carlson now

4 (1h 53m 30s):
Liquor Up. Yeah. Liquored up Don Lemon talking shit.

1 (1h 53m 33s):
Yeah. I mean Tucker's not the same. Tucker I mean he's interviewing the guy who that conman who said he fucking blew Obama or whatever.

4 (1h 53m 41s):
Yeah. That

1 (1h 53m 42s):
So he is having fun. That one's

4 (1h 53m 44s):
Wild. Yeah, that one's wild. Like what are you doing? Yeah, what are you doing, bro?

1 (1h 53m 51s):
It's a little different. Why

4 (1h 53m 52s):
Are you interviewing the guy who blew Obama? Yeah, that's crazy.

1 (1h 53m 55s):
Who had like a huge record of conning and being a liar and Yeah.

4 (1h 54m 1s):
Did he have a huge record of being

1 (1h 54m 2s):
Conman? Ah, huge. Huge. Why do I

4 (1h 54m 4s):
Wanna believe him though? Huh?

1 (1h 54m 5s):
Because it's fun. Do I believe him? Because it's fun as fuck. But when you look at the guy, he's got like charges all like his whole background is Connie. Well he's a

4 (1h 54m 14s):
Hustler. Yeah. He's a, you know, a gay hustler. I mean, that's basically what he's saying openly that he did with Obama. Yeah. Money. He got Coke and gave him sex. Yeah,

1 (1h 54m 23s):
Yeah,

4 (1h 54m 23s):
Yeah.

1 (1h 54m 24s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 54m 25s):
And Tucker's like, I

1 (1h 54m 26s):
Believe it Tucker like, I believe this guy. Yeah.

4 (1h 54m 28s):
It's so crazy to have that guy on your show.

1 (1h 54m 29s):
Especially when just Googling his background and like he, he is not a new guy. He is been around for a while. He is come up in other Yeah. Political campaigns and stuff.

4 (1h 54m 38s):
I think what Tucker's doing is brilliant First of all, I think going over to Twitter was brilliant. 'cause like so many people were paying attention to it then. And the numbers were giant, like crazy numbers for some of the episodes. Then you go to a subscription model like nine bucks a month or something like that. Whatever it is. You know how many people are gonna sign up for that. Yeah.

1 (1h 54m 55s):
The subscription model's the best way. Yeah. To stay free

4 (1h 54m 59s):
You gotta stay free. Yeah. Yeah. If you're not free, you're fucked. Yeah. The, the only way in the future is gonna be subscription models. Most of these companies, like if you are, if you're on YouTube right now, you have to watch what you're saying. I don't really want Spotify. Spotify's pretty fucking good. Yeah. But for the most part, with a lot of these social media companies and these companies that are producing these things, they have a very clear mindset as to what is acceptable and not acceptable.

1 (1h 55m 24s):
Yeah. Spotify kind of stuck by you during all these controversies. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 55m 28s):
I want you to imagine if Tucker Carlson had a YouTube show and he brought on the guy that blew Obama. It was just a YouTube show.

1 (1h 55m 35s):
I'm tuning in. Even though I know it's joke.

4 (1h 55m 37s):
Don't you think they'd pull it? Don't you think they'd matter? Well, okay, let's imagine this. Theo Vaughn has the guy on the blue Obama. Now it's over. Yeah. They're gonna yank him a hundred percent.

1 (1h 55m 49s):
Probably yank Tucker more. 'cause Tucker was, I I Theo would probably have a lot more fun with that.

4 (1h 55m 54s):
Yeah. But you can get rid of Theo. Yeah. And get rid of Tucker is more of a stink. Right. You know, like Theo Peloton contacted him when he had Robert Kennedy Jr. On, and Peloton was like, get rid of that episode.

1 (1h 56m 7s):
Right.

4 (1h 56m 8s):
And then Dana White found out about it and threw out all the PE Pelotons.

1 (1h 56m 11s):
I I heard about that. Yeah. Yeah, yeah.

4 (1h 56m 14s):
Just like companies have a very clear idea what you should be able to say and not be able to say. Yeah. And for comics in particular, that's a real problem.

1 (1h 56m 23s):
Yeah. Well you can't blame the companies. They're just thinking about their bottom line. Yeah. I mean we would do the same if we worked for those companies. Sure,

4 (1h 56m 30s):
Yeah. If you're just a numbers guy.

1 (1h 56m 31s):
Yeah. You're just a numbers guy company like, hey, we don't wanna be attached to that. Yeah. We

4 (1h 56m 34s):
Need advertiser revenue.

1 (1h 56m 35s):
Yeah. It's not even about going like, hey pro con, they're like, we, we know pe, it's a hot button topic for people or whatever and we don't want to get into it. We wanna sell bikes.

4 (1h 56m 44s):
That's why what Elon did is so wild. You know? That's really why it's so wild.

1 (1h 56m 49s):
I mean everybody's back on X

4 (1h 56m 52s):
Hollywood. Hogan should get back on it. He's

1 (1h 56m 54s):
Like Hollywood Hogan. He's switched from Hulk Hogan to Hollywood. Hogan, dun, NWOX.

4 (1h 56m 59s):
Everybody's back. Everybody.

1 (1h 57m 2s):
Everybody. You see everything up there.

4 (1h 57m 4s):
Yeah. It's pretty interesting isn't it?

1 (1h 57m 6s):
The well, yeah, there's a lot of good, but yeah, then there, you know, I do. There's a lot of not so good. I follow some people who are straight Nazis.

4 (1h 57m 13s):
Oh, there's definitely straight Nazis

1 (1h 57m 15s):
On there. There's straight Nazis.

4 (1h 57m 16s):
The Taliban's on there.

1 (1h 57m 16s):
Yeah. I mean everybody Taliban's on there. The Nazis are on there. Maybe that's good though, because then you can see them and you know what they're doing as opposed to having them hide and then you are not You don't know what they're up to.

4 (1h 57m 28s):
Well that was my argument about the Feds infiltrating these terrorist organizations. Like, especially even things like, well they couldn't even say if the feds were involved in January 6th Of course they can't say because sometimes they have to be involved. Like whether or not they did instigate getting people to go into the capitol and I don don't think they wouldn't do that. But what's more important is if you've got something that might be an insurrection, you kind of have to be there. Like you have to, you're a part of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. You have to look into that. Like, but when it gets to like the, the plot to kidnap Governor Whitmer and you find out that there's 14 people involved and 12 of are FBI informants 12.

4 (1h 58m 15s):
12 out of 14. And these two fucking dopes get railroaded for the rest of their fucking life for some cosplay scheme in their head. Their stupid 84 IQ head of going and kidnapping the governor. And you find out it's all set up by federal informants. Like, I think you're doing it Rock.

1 (1h 58m 34s):
Is that what happened? Yep. I'm not aware of that at all. Oh,

4 (1h 58m 37s):
This is the greatest story's the

1 (1h 58m 39s):
Greatest story. That's verified. Oh yeah, that's Pull

4 (1h 58m 42s):
It up. Jamie's

1 (1h 58m 43s):
Crazy.

4 (1h 58m 44s):
12 of them were informants. Well the head of the Proud Boys was an FBI informant. The head of the Proud Boys.

1 (1h 58m 51s):
That's crazy. Yeah, he was an F FBI I informant. Yes.

4 (1h 58m 54s):
Wow. And they still put him in jail.

1 (1h 58m 56s):
That's dirty

4 (1h 58m 57s):
Dude. They, that's dirty. There was a story. Oh, a h hilarious

1 (1h 59m 1s):
Story back dirty. Yeah,

4 (1h 59m 2s):
Yeah. They

1 (1h 59m 3s):
Did that. Yeah, that, that's another one was

4 (1h 59m 4s):
Dirty. Whitey Bulger was a fucking murderer. And he was working for the vets

1 (1h 59m 8s):
And he continued to murder as an FBI informant. I don't

5 (1h 59m 11s):
Think 12 of them were actually informants, but they may have actually worked with the FBI in some form. don don't know if it makes that in informant though. This says only four.

4 (1h 59m 19s):
Jamie, are you an informant apologist? That's what I'm getting outta here. No, it says only four. No, there's more than four. I I know. There's more than four. I was reading this very detailed breakdown of how many of the men had no connection to the FBI. Here

1 (1h 59m 32s):
Go to the AP news. FBI lured men. Yeah. It says four though. I

5 (1h 59m 37s):
Know. That's

4 (1h 59m 38s):
The thing I remember. Wait a minute. The four men charged with planning to kidnap. How many other people were there that weren't those men that weren't charged the

1 (1h 59m 46s):
Fbi? Oh, they're saying informants

4 (1h 59m 47s):
Weren't

1 (1h 59m 47s):
Charged. They said they were swayed by informants.

4 (1h 59m 50s):
Exactly. How many informants were there though? Why don't you write how many in inform how many FBI informants Whitmer kidnapping. How many FBI informants. What does it say here? This

5 (2h 0m 10s):
Is a total of 12 informants. Were ultimately involved in investigation.

4 (2h 0m 13s):
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. but it, that's it. That's the number that I had heard. A total of 12 informants

1 (2h 0m 18s):
According to Buzzfeed. Well, yeah. Who knows?

4 (2h 0m 21s):
I mean this is right here is the New York Times. Yeah.

1 (2h 0m 23s):
Let's see what they say.

5 (2h 0m 24s):
Sometimes we don't believe in New York Times

4 (2h 0m 25s):
Sometimes that too. Yeah. They were wrong about that fucking bombing of the hospital. Yeah,

1 (2h 0m 28s):
They were.

4 (2h 0m 31s):
I'm pretty sure that's the story. I'm pretty sure there was 12 informants.

5 (2h 0m 35s):
It, I think, call it I Well I'm not an informant defense. Here

1 (2h 0m 38s):
You go. Here you go. The FBI deployed at least 12 informants as well as

4 (2h 0m 41s):
Several undercover, as well as several undercover agents. According to the defense filings on the nighttime surveillance operation of the government's cottage. For example, the defense described Big Dan as the main organizer, Steven Robeson, with a long history of both past crimes and work as an informant was there too. The explosives expert who could topple a bridge was actually an undercover FBI agent as was the man in another vehicle. The defense lawyer is using the same trove of evidence material, have built an entirely different scenario of what happened. They depict an accused as a reluctant puppets entrapped by the FBI agents and informants, whom they say came up with a kidnapping

1 (2h 1m 20s):
Block. Oh, so it's a He said, she said about whether they, the informants were like just going along getting the information or actually pushing them to do it.

4 (2h 1m 30s):
Well they also had actual FBI agents that were pretending they were bomb experts that were gonna blow up a fucking bridge. Look, it's a scam. Yeah, it's a scam. You gotta, you know, you gotta put out fire so you start a fire. Well, you know, there's firefighters that have done that.

1 (2h 1m 45s):
It's, it's suspicious that the FBI was heavily involved the whole way through this. Weird, it's a very, it seems weird as Yeah, that's an underst understatement. Yeah, that's

4 (2h 1m 53s):
Why didn't you just arrest them? Yeah. If you thought they were planning on doing, doing that. And so

1 (2h 1m 56s):
If you see them, they're doing that, then you could easily say on January 6th, they were there also rallying up morons. Right.

4 (2h 2m 4s):
The same type people were They probably would do that. Would do

1 (2h 2m 6s):
That. Yeah. And they probably were, because there are videos of people opening doors and shit. Yeah. So those videos are not

4 (2h 2m 11s):
Also telling people, let's go, let's go in there, let's go. We're calling 'em feds people still

1 (2h 2m 16s):
In there. They still did that. So those, they don't do that. Yeah. You still have agency. You're an adult. They did it. Yes. But yeah, it doesn't seem as clean as people think.

4 (2h 2m 25s):
No. Yeah. No, no, no, no, no,

1 (2h 2m 27s):
No. Because they definitely wanted to make Trump look bad.

4 (2h 2m 30s):
Oh yeah.

1 (2h 2m 31s):
They were constantly trying to make, look, Trump look bad. They tried to do it with Russia. They've tried a lot of things to try to get that guy.

4 (2h 2m 37s):
Yeah. Yeah. And the videos that they show are like, like it's getting stormed by barbarians. But then you see that dude getting a tour. The the shaman dude with a buffalo hat on. That's right. Getting a tour. The guards are taking him around, showing him around. I thought he was violent. A

1 (2h 2m 51s):
Lot of different things happen in different places.

4 (2h 2m 53s):
I, this was an insurrection. Yeah. It seemed like a bunch of dopes just wandered into a building. Know what? Yeah. They didn't know what to do. One guy though, one guy had zip ties on. Yeah.

1 (2h 3m 1s):
I think it was different. People had different motivations. A

4 (2h 3m 4s):
Hundred percent.

1 (2h 3m 5s):
And I think there might've been, if the I mean, there's your evidence right there. They were doing that. There. They, there's a good chance they were doing that on January 6th as well.

4 (2h 3m 12s):
Kevin Bacon from the Netflix movie. He would've zip ties. Yeah. Right. Yeah. You're gonna have different fucking people. You

1 (2h 3m 18s):
Got different people.

4 (2h 3m 18s):
Yeah. And they're all going to that thing. Yeah. Because they think that the election's been stolen. Yeah. Some guys are gonna show up with zip ties. Yeah. And that's when it gets scary. Yeah. That's when it gets scary.

1 (2h 3m 27s):
That's when it's, it's been interesting. And knowing what's true and what's not true is just, it's not as easy as it used to be.

4 (2h 3m 34s):
Nope. No. And it's only gonna get worse with ai. Yeah. AI is gonna make things super confusing.

1 (2h 3m 39s):
Well, the scary thing about ai, the only, I'm more still more scared of people than ai. AI has been nothing but helpful to me.

4 (2h 3m 45s):
For

1 (2h 3m 45s):
Now. For now. Yeah. I'm scared of people. People are, do bad things. But where it can get very dangerous is if you do like an AI video of Putin saying, we're launching nukes. And then you think it's real And then we launch the nukes and

4 (2h 3m 59s):
Mm. Yeah. Yeah. Or fake. Like actual fake footage of an attack. Yeah. We gotta

1 (2h 4m 5s):
Stop war. Somehow. Somehow. Somehow. We got a fucking, how do

4 (2h 4m 9s):
We do that? Giannis Papas, you're a smart guy. God,

1 (2h 4m 13s):
I don't know. Maybe we

4 (2h 4m 14s):
Get people to do this thing with eyeballs.

1 (2h 4m 15s):
Maybe the EDMR maybe sitting Putin down and be like, what's this really? What did your, your mother did? What? Yeah, let's talk about your mom. Yeah. What's it about? And then sit down. don don't know. Because like you said, yeah, obviously nato, you know, was interested in Ukraine. NATO's was interested in the former Eastern B Block as well. But the Eastern Bloc was very interested in joining nato. Finland's interested in joining nato. Not because NATO's manipulating them. Like a lot of these theories just forget that these countries have agency and they

4 (2h 4m 48s):
Oh, for sure. But that's not the theory about the red line that

1 (2h 4m 51s):
No, no, I'm just saying Ukraine. I'm just saying Ukraine. That's

4 (2h 4m 53s):
Very specific. Ukraine

1 (2h 4m 54s):
Wants to be part of nato. They want to be a democracy. The majority of them do. That's why they're fighting I. mean they're fighting. We're not forcing them to fight. Right. I mean they are fighting and dying. They don't want to be part of Putin's world. They don't wanna be part of Russia's influence. And Ru Putin doesn't like that. And you know, he, you know all those other former Soviet republics too that are now, you know, pardon of NATO or aligned with nato. They're aligned with NATO as a precautionary measure too, against Soviet expansion or former Soviet expansion. Or the threat of it. Or doesn't

4 (2h 5m 31s):
It suck that you even have to think about this?

1 (2h 5m 33s):
It does suck, but we see it from here. Yeah. But when you go and you talk to people in Finland and places that the Soviet Union did invade and didn't conquer and did force into their republic, you know, and the USSR, they have a different view of it. I mean, you know, it's like, it depends on who you talk to. Yeah. Right. It so it's like it, to your point, it's very complicated over there. It's like Israel and Palestine, it is complicated. It, you have to go all the way back to the beginning because the Jews made that land important to them for religious reasons. 'cause they used to be there. So it's like you have to go all the way back to that in order to understand the conflict. Now isn't it

4 (2h 6m 8s):
Wild though, that from October 7th to January 18th, just a few months, it goes from horror and outrage at this terrorist attack on a, on a rave on a music festival entering these people's homes and shooting them and killing them and torture 'em. Sending them cell cell phone videos. You killing and torturing people to their families. It goes from that to death to the Jews. Just a couple of months.

1 (2h 6m 35s):
I mean the Jews. The Jews got sympathy for about a minute and 30 seconds

4 (2h 6m 39s):
For just a couple of months. Yeah. But then you, you see what they did to Gaza and you go, yeah, that seems kind of crazy. That's

1 (2h 6m 47s):
A little heavy. That's bad. That's very bad. It seems, I'm against all seems you're era

4 (2h 6m 50s):
Things and it seems like they erase the city. Yeah. Like when you, when you look at it now, like from an overhead, what it used to Bever versus what it is now. Have you seen that lately?

1 (2h 6m 59s):
It's horrific. It's crazy. It's a horrific and it's bad. And those people could never, I don't think live together. And

4 (2h 7m 9s):
You like that's a, that's a blow that you don't shake off. Yeah. You don't turn the other cheek.

1 (2h 7m 14s):
And that's what they're doing. And that's why they're doing it. They're doing that going like, but it also I think makes Israel look really bad. Look at this, at this. They leveled the whole place.

4 (2h 7m 24s):
I mean this is like,

1 (2h 7m 26s):
Remember those? Are you sure it's not a Lepo though? 'cause I know A lot of times videos say it's Gaza and then sometimes it'll be Syria.

4 (2h 7m 32s):
I think this is where

1 (2h 7m 33s):
I saw either way they're

4 (2h 7m 34s):
Bad. This is the Guardian. Yeah.

1 (2h 7m 35s):
So it, weeks

4 (2h 7m 36s):
Ago, this is the Guardian. So sometimes

1 (2h 7m 37s):
You just gotta make

4 (2h 7m 37s):
Sure I think the guardian's on it. Yeah. This is insane, dude. It's insane. No, they

1 (2h 7m 42s):
Leveled the whole place.

4 (2h 7m 44s):
It's so much. Yeah. So much damage. and it looks like apartment buildings. Yeah. I mean bro, that it's crazy. That's crazy. And if you watch the footage, have you seen some of the bombs go off? Yeah.

1 (2h 7m 56s):
It's brutal.

4 (2h 7m 57s):
It's so crazy what they can do now with these bombs. They're so powerful.

1 (2h 8m 1s):
Well that's the you from the river to the sea. You're trying to say like that Palestinians are gonna be repatriated. It's just, unfortunately it's not gonna happen like it. And when you can't pick and choose, right. You can't go. Hey, you know, we want the Palestinians to get their homes back and get rid of the OC Occupy. But then what about the Kurds? What about the Armenians? What about the Greeks and Anole? I mean? The list goes on and on and on of people who've been pushed outta their homes and, and population exchanges. And what about the Jews in Medina during the Muslim expansions? What about the Jews in all the Muslim countries that were forced to flee when Israel founded? You got, you just go on and on and on. It sucks. What about Northern? What about Cyprus?

1 (2h 8m 41s):
Northern Cyprus, that was illegally. It's still, it was illegally invaded by Turkey after the Turkey was formed. And then population exchanges there, like people hate each other. And there's a un line of a peacekeeping zone between north and South Cyprus. They hate each other. The Greeks want them out. But innocent people aren't dying anymore. So it's like you gotta find a real world solution. You can't just keep yelling about who's right and wrong and, and indicting Israel for things that other countries have done. Are we gonna give back Texas now? I mean the list can go on and on and on. It's wrong. but it was wrong when the Romans kicked him out. You're going, oh, you're going 2000 years back. Well, you're only going 400 years. I mean, so what's the difference? Right. Right. We're we're all going back.

1 (2h 9m 22s):
I mean the Jews were there. Right. I mean. Yeah. The crazy reli, religious zealots are fucking wanted because of Jerusalem. Jerusalem and all these religions want Christians. Jerusalem's important. Islam is important.

4 (2h 9m 35s):
You ever seen those radical Christians that go on that journey? Yeah. To Jerusalem?

1 (2h 9m 39s):
Yeah. and I seen the radical Jews who spit on them. Dude.

4 (2h 9m 42s):
Wild stuff. Right? Wild

1 (2h 9m 43s):
Shit.

4 (2h 9m 44s):
Yeah. but

1 (2h 9m 45s):
It, you gotta find a real world

4 (2h 9m 46s):
Solution and it just spit on 'em as they walk by.

1 (2h 9m 48s):
Yeah. They just spit on the ground. Yeah. People are fucking nuts. They're fucking outta their minds.

4 (2h 9m 55s):
Do you think that my, my thought about mind reading software, universal language fixes a lot of that

1 (2h 10m 3s):
Stuff. Yes it does.

4 (2h 10m 4s):
Fixes a lot of it.

1 (2h 10m 5s):
It does. Because I think what's happening to the Palestinians, unfortunately, is they're being used by surrounding powers as sort of like frontline marines to keep this issue going. To keep fighting against Israel and America's encroachment in the Middle East. And they just use these people. And have

4 (2h 10m 25s):
You seen the border? Terrific. The border to Egypt?

1 (2h 10m 29s):
Yeah. It's more sealed than the one in Israel.

4 (2h 10m 31s):
Show the border to Egypt. Yeah.

1 (2h 10m 32s):
They don't let 'em in there, there either.

4 (2h 10m 34s):
But it's so over the top. It's crazy. We need that in Mexico. Yeah. That is a dope ass. Get that going. Get Trump to look at that. Yeah. Because that's a real wall. Yeah. Good luck getting through that fucking wall. Yeah. Can you see if you can find that Jamie? I just saw an article about it where they were talking about how strict I know which one for, I don't know, the one I saw. Barbed wire all over it.

20 (2h 10m 59s):
This picture here.

4 (2h 11m 2s):
Yeah. They got that motherfucker locked up. But how long is how? It's a good question. Is that border?

1 (2h 11m 8s):
It's a question. It's a significant border. I mean It's

4 (2h 11m 11s):
Not. How big is ours? We got a bullshit wall.

1 (2h 11m 14s):
Ours is I mean. Our wall or our border. Our wall. don don't know. The wall is bullshit, but it's not, it's obviously

4 (2h 11m 21s):
If that many people can walk through your wall. It's I mean. Imagine those are the white walkers. Yeah.

1 (2h 11m 25s):
They would fucking,

4 (2h 11m 26s):
They'd kill everybody in Game of Thrones. The boundary between Egypt and Israel stretches 206 kilometers, 128 miles along the eastern edge of the Sinai Peninsula from the defacto trip point with Palestine, Gaza to the Gulf of, how do you say that? aba. Aba A Kaba. A-Q-A-B-A in the Red Sea. Egypt and

1 (2h 11m 47s):
Israel made peace like a long time ago. Right? Like the seventies. They like, yeah, they, I think Egypt was the first country to go like, all right, we're done close. They

4 (2h 11m 55s):
Were very close to making peace with, with Saudi Arabia. Yes.

1 (2h 11m 57s):
It was very close that was happening. Yeah. I think they have peace with Jordan too. Right. So the United States

4 (2h 12m 3s):
Border is, it's possible. And 1,954 miles, it's a lot bigger. But how much wall do we have up 20 miles? We have such a bullshit wall. The wall is such bullshit.

1 (2h 12m 15s):
Dude. The the left was so against the wall. And now I think a lot of the left is going like, yeah, just build that wall. Just don't tell anybody. I told you. Well,

4 (2h 12m 22s):
Especially the people that are living in New York. Where at Governor Abbott's busing. Yeah. Ecuadorians in by the fucking truckload. Oh

1 (2h 12m 29s):
Dude. You see them. Yeah. You see them now. I I've seen them. Yeah. I've seen migrants. Yeah.

4 (2h 12m 33s):
I mean

1 (2h 12m 33s):
Nobody's, I've seen them. Nobody's into it. Yeah. Nobody's into it. The most left people. Nobody's into it.

4 (2h 12m 39s):
Well that's reality. They're

1 (2h 12m 41s):
In Fourstar Hotels. They don't know what to do with I know a guy who works on it. I know, you know, he's, you know, he's a top level guy who is in the military and also NYPD. And he's working on that. And he, he goes, the scariest part is there's no plan. There's no plan. So they put 'em in hotels. Some of them are in the lobbies. They give him these food stipends. They go across the street to Arby's. They eat. But there's no plan. There's no, they're just holding them. There's no, and they keep coming in. They just keep coming in. Some of 'em are going back now because they're going like, we're not fucking getting, he goes,

4 (2h 13m 12s):
Also, it's cold as

1 (2h 13m 12s):
Fuck. It's cold as fuck.

4 (2h 13m 13s):
You go to Chicago. Yeah.

1 (2h 13m 15s):
And the winter. Whoops. But, and it just, and he goes, here's the taxpayers are paying for them. And he goes, oh. And the taxpayers are also paying for me doing overtime. Like I was assigned to this in addition to my usual assignments. Yeah. I was assigned to this a lot. Lot of people who are doing this on an a ad hoc basis, it's an emergency situation. And so the taxpayers are paying us all this overtime money. So the taxpayers are getting looted

4 (2h 13m 41s):
And it's happened so fast. Yeah.

1 (2h 13m 43s):
And he's not a quacky guy. I mean he's not. Oh,

4 (2h 13m 45s):
Well that's not a quacks thing to say.

1 (2h 13m 46s):
He's not a quack. He's a very reasonable smart guy. And well,

4 (2h 13m 51s):
I mean what is the solution? And it's, this is how fast it's happened. I was wa we did movie night the other night. We watched Maid in Manhattan. You ever watch that? No. This is Jennifer Lopez I know a hot maid. Yeah. And Ralph Fines is a handsome like politician. And she pretends that she's some socialite accidentally. It's like something. Anyway, it happens in the Roosevelt Hotel. The Roosevelt Hotel is where they have these immigrants. That's right. That's right. So that hotel's not a hotel anymore. No. It's a ritzy hotel in this film where like it's a nice hotel and they have all these, it's a

1 (2h 14m 24s):
Four star hotel. Yeah.

4 (2h 14m 25s):
Beautiful hotel. Yeah. Well now this hotel is flooded with immigrants. Yeah. Imagine you own that hotel. It's

1 (2h 14m 32s):
Crazy.

4 (2h 14m 33s):
I mean, how does that work? Does the government just give you a contract? You say I'll take it. No,

1 (2h 14m 36s):
This mayor

4 (2h 14m 37s):
Just, he give you money.

1 (2h 14m 38s):
Not great either.

4 (2h 14m 39s):
Oh, he's terrible. He's terrible. He's better than the last guy. Which is even Wilder. Yeah.

1 (2h 14m 42s):
I mean, who knows? That De

4 (2h 14m 44s):
Blassio was out of his fucking

1 (2h 14m 45s):
Mind. He was outta his mind. But this guy's turning I mean, talk about plagiarism. His book. He had to remove his book. So he wrote a book and I, you know, I guess people are looking for this now. So it's like half the book is plagiarized or made up. None of it's true. So he actually had to like pull his book. Oh my God. Because it's like all lies. It's just

4 (2h 15m 9s):
Happened. He was all in favor for the sanctuary in the beginning. Yeah. The rich history of the Pakistani owned Roosevelt, Pakistan owned Roosevelt Hotel in New York. Pakistan International Airlines has leased one of its most valuable assets. Roosevelt Hotel in New York, the city's administration for a period of three years in order to raise money for its struggling economy.

5 (2h 15m 28s):
This happened in 2 20 20.

4 (2h 15m 31s):
So they're, they, they're for Pakistan struggling economy. So they're leasing out the Roosevelt to the city so that they can have money.

1 (2h 15m 39s):
Yeah. 'cause the city pays them. Yeah, the

5 (2h 15m 41s):
City pays them.

4 (2h 15m 42s):
But what about just running it as a hotel? Is that less profitable?

5 (2h 15m 45s):
It closed during so that it all their problems started with Covid as

4 (2h 15m 49s):
Was

5 (2h 15m 50s):
Gonna be going to them. So they had to find a way to make some money off the

1 (2h 15m 52s):
Building. Also Airbnb. It's really hurt hotels.

4 (2h 15m 55s):
Yeah,

1 (2h 15m 55s):
Yeah. In general. I bet. Yeah.

4 (2h 15m 57s):
In general. But not in Manhattan. Manhattan. If you're in Manhattan, you get to stay in Manhattan. Yeah.

1 (2h 16m 2s):
Covid

4 (2h 16m 3s):
Probably, you know, you're gonna see guns and roses at the garden. You're not gonna fucking stay in a Airbnb on Long Island

1 (2h 16m 8s):
Or kill Tony or go see Kill

5 (2h 16m 9s):
Tony or kill Tony. A lot of my friends, they prefer Airbnbs over hotels. and I didn't find it crazy. Like almost up the majority. I'd say 95

4 (2h 16m 17s):
Tim Di until they banned them. Yeah.

1 (2h 16m 19s):
I mean I'm in one right now and Airbnb's a nice, I'm in a nice one. Oh, they're great. Some of them are great. They really have hurt the hotel business big time.

4 (2h 16m 26s):
Just like Uber hurt the taxi business.

1 (2h 16m 28s):
Huge. Yeah. Yeah. Huge

4 (2h 16m 29s):
I mean it's also, it's a very interesting way to make money off a property. Yeah. And it's significantly more. And you could just rent it out to different people on weekends. And if you have a really nice place, you can make a ton of loot. You can cover your nut. Yeah,

1 (2h 16m 42s):
That's

4 (2h 16m 42s):
Right. You know there's people that make money off Airbnb houses. Yeah. It's a side business. That's right.

1 (2h 16m 47s):
It's the only thing preventing a black rock tape go over of

4 (2h 16m 49s):
Real and it real estate and it fucking weirdos to set up cameras to watch you. Shit.

1 (2h 16m 54s):
I'm actually was thinking that when I was in the Airbnb, I was looking for cameras. I was like, where are these fucking

4 (2h 16m 58s):
Cameras? The are I know a guy who could sweep it for you.

1 (2h 17m 2s):
Well I am only there. One more night man.

4 (2h 17m 4s):
One more night is enough for you to be whacking off with your socks

1 (2h 17m 6s):
Off. I haven't checked off for five days just 'cause I'm worried about it.

4 (2h 17m 9s):
Crazy.

1 (2h 17m 11s):
I did think about that though.

4 (2h 17m 13s):
Yeah. You gotta do it in the shower. Yeah. If you got a camera in the shower, they're a real piece of shit. Yeah.

1 (2h 17m 18s):
But that's where you'd want to put it.

4 (2h 17m 20s):
Yeah. You'd wanna put it in the bathroom. Yeah. Or in the bedroom. Like overlooking the bed.

1 (2h 17m 23s):
That's right. Yeah. Yeah. There's an odd sprinkler above me that I'm like, what

4 (2h 17m 27s):
Is that? It was one of the sons of one of the owners of Bucky's, which is the, the craziest gas station ever. I know Bucky's. Yeah. They, one of the sons got busted with a camera in the women's room. Oh

1 (2h 17m 38s):
No.

4 (2h 17m 38s):
Was it the women's changing room? What was it?

5 (2h 17m 41s):
They have a changing room at Bucky's.

4 (2h 17m 43s):
I mean for employees maybe. Dude,

1 (2h 17m 45s):
What don't they have at Bucky's?

4 (2h 17m 46s):
Yeah, exactly.

1 (2h 17m 47s):
You can buy lawn furniture, brisket sandwich.

4 (2h 17m 50s):
You

1 (2h 17m 50s):
Buy everything. Anything.

4 (2h 17m 52s):
What happened? 28

5 (2h 17m 53s):
Counts of recording.

1 (2h 17m 57s):
Crazy. Just pull it up.

5 (2h 17m 60s):
Basic recording. Following disturbance at multiple residences associated with him.

4 (2h 18m 6s):
What is he following? What is he filming? A camera alleged contained memory card loaded with dozens of videos, capturing individuals in various states of undress. In bedrooms. Yeah. It wasn and bathrooms.

5 (2h 18m 15s):
It wasn't at Bucky's, it was just, that's just his link. 'cause he's the guy. Oh.

4 (2h 18m 18s):
So he did it somewhere else at

5 (2h 18m 20s):
His properties. He has all over the city

4 (2h 18m 22s):
It seems like. Oh,

5 (2h 18m 23s):
Dallas apartment. Telluride, Colorado

4 (2h 18m 25s):
Con and Austin. So Airbnb's then. Yeah. So he was doing that. Yeah. That's it. Is there other, there's other companies other than Airbnb that have that same service. Yeah.

1 (2h 18m 33s):
Yeah. Yeah. So brutal.

4 (2h 18m 34s):
Hilarious. Yeah. Creep. It

1 (2h 18m 36s):
Is creepy.

4 (2h 18m 37s):
But also, and the

1 (2h 18m 38s):
Cameras are so small,

4 (2h 18m 38s):
Man people, son of a rich man,

1 (2h 18m 40s):
You know? Yeah. How do you make someone grow up normal when they grow up Rich and privilege. It's tough. Like, good

4 (2h 18m 45s):
Luck.

1 (2h 18m 46s):
Good luck. You know, the fate is usually DJ or drug addict for rich, famous kids.

4 (2h 18m 52s):
Scary. Yeah. Well, just being a regular person's hard.

1 (2h 18m 56s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 18m 56s):
Being a person when you know, you grow up and your dad has a private jet and a yacht and owns an island, it's tough. And hangs out with Clinton.

1 (2h 19m 4s):
Yeah. You don't wanna work for anything. You don't know what the value of anything is. Yeah.

4 (2h 19m 7s):
I mean he's been given to you for free. Yeah. You don know how to work hard. Yeah. I think athletics is a, a good way to teach kids how to do things. It's do difficult things and you learn from them. Art, anything where you have to like actually work at something, you develop character from working at something. Yeah.

1 (2h 19m 22s):
You teach your kids that. Right? Yeah. You're so good with time and balance. Like, 'cause you're an involved dad.

4 (2h 19m 30s):
Yeah.

1 (2h 19m 32s):
How do you do it? Is it like,

4 (2h 19m 33s):
Like spend, well I only work out.

1 (2h 19m 35s):
You plan it that way or

4 (2h 19m 36s):
Like Yeah. Yeah. You have to work, you have to plan it. But I also only do standup for the most part three nights a week. Yeah. So four nights a week, I'm always home. Yeah. Unless I have to do road stuff. And sometimes I take them with me and we go on vacations together. We, we spend time together specifically. We have like family days specifically. It's hard, you know, and it's also they night, they want space too. They're in school All day. Yeah. When they come home, they want to decompress. And you gotta know how to not be imposing but also talk to 'em about stuff and organize stuff to do. Make it fun, you know? Yeah. We have a lot of fun together.

1 (2h 20m 10s):
Being a dad is the, it's just overwhelming. Yeah. It's overwhelming how great it is.

4 (2h 20m 17s):
It is great.

1 (2h 20m 17s):
It made me like be like, do I want to still do com? Like, I just wanna be home with my kids. And so the road got a little, like, I had this real crisis where I was like, I wanna be home. don don't wanna miss time with my kids. 'cause that's what my parents did to me. And I'm like, it's hard. The balance is hard. It's hard.

4 (2h 20m 33s):
It's hard. It's,

1 (2h 20m 33s):
And I remember I even asked you privately and you were like, no, that is hard and need to give you a solution. I was like, fuck. I was hoping for an easy answer and you were just like, no, it is hard. The,

4 (2h 20m 41s):
The, a friend of mine the other day was telling me that his son had some athletic event and he was, he got an offer to do a gig in Calgary. and I'm like, is it important to him? He goes, yeah. I go, dude, you could work anywhere. You don't have to do that weekend. I'd give

1 (2h 20m 54s):
A second. I'll give the money. I don't give a fuck about the money. But

4 (2h 20m 56s):
The thing is, is if you are barely getting by, if you're kind of like scratching and scraping and you've gotta like pick and choose. Like, is this advancing my career? Is this fucking me up? Is me not chasing my career going to be a detriment to my family? 'cause now we're gonna have a financial crisis. Yeah. So there's that. It's like, just like you were talking about, like people start making money and becoming famous. There's terrified it's all gonna go away. There's also, when you are barely getting by, you realize, or you're getting by, but just like you're above water, but you know, you realize one catastrophic thing and you're under and you're fucked. And then the, the house gets repossessed and then you're staying with your mom. Your kids are together in one room.

1 (2h 21m 38s):
That's a real fear. Yeah.

4 (2h 21m 40s):
If you got a mom, if you got a mom, right. You know what, if you're in a shelter, what if, you know what the fuck man? So it's like you have this, this intense desire to be a provider and you know that you have to put in the work. You have to, you have to be successful. Like, it may be way more successful, like being responsible for little people and a and a wife and fa just the family thing. Like being responsible for stuff. Yeah. And then now I'm responsible for like employees. You know, I can't just quit. Yeah.

1 (2h 22m 8s):
If

4 (2h 22m 8s):
I just quit. Right. You know, I have this whole club now. the podcast, what would the fuck would Jamie do if I wasn't here?

1 (2h 22m 16s):
He'd golf. So he'd

4 (2h 22m 18s):
He'd be so bored. He'd get bored. He'd miss it.

1 (2h 22m 21s):
Of. course he would,

4 (2h 22m 21s):
He'd be Googling in the air. Yeah. Outta nowhere with one hand.

1 (2h 22m 25s):
It's a real thing. It's a real transition when you have kids to, and it's a real pressure and it,

4 (2h 22m 30s):
Well, it's a real, yeah. Rec life is finite. You have a finite time. There's a, you have a finite amount of time that's available to you living as an organism on earth. That's a fact. and I am already more than halfway through that. I'm halfway towards the end. And you have to maximize your time to the benefit of both yourself and everybody else around you. That's what you gotta do. You gotta be as good a friend as you could be. You gotta be as good a, a husband and as good of a father and as good of an employer, as good of an employee, as good of a a neighbor. You gotta be the best you could be at all these different things. Just do your best to have the most positive impact on the people around you.

4 (2h 23m 13s):
You're gonna fuck up. Everybody fucks up. Yeah. We're humans. Correct that. As much as you can. Express yourself as best as you can. Yeah. Be as nice as you can. Try to try to facilitate and try to encourage fun and happiness and love. And that's possible. It's possible in the community of people that you find yourself in. And if you can't, you need to find a better community

1 (2h 23m 34s):
Or you gotta be a better person. You

4 (2h 23m 35s):
Gotta be a better person. And you gotta, that's all you have to be a better person to attract a better community. Like, whenever I see someone single and you know, they're like, oh, I can't find a person. Like, oh, what do you have to offer? Like, who are you? Like, are you a person that someone would gravitate towards? Are you particularly kind? Are you particularly friendly and generous? Like what, what is it about you that you think you should have? Someone that makes your life better? 'cause you probably ruined their life. You're fucking dour. You complain all the time. You, you, you're so lazy. It's hard

1 (2h 24m 5s):
To say that to somebody, but it get, you know, it's true. Yeah. You're like, let's go. Yeah. Look at you, dude. The reason why you're struggling is because you,

4 (2h 24m 12s):
And also you're stuck because you're struggling. You're probably tired all the time 'cause you're depressed. So it's very difficult to gather up the energy, to make change, to make like a radical change in your life. To say, today I'm gonna get up at 6:00 AM and I'm gonna go to that fucking yoga class. And I'm always saying, I'm gonna get to that six 30 yoga. And then the alarm goes off and you're like, fuck that don. Don't really have to get up till eight and I'm just going back to sleep. Or just go to that yoga class and then eight o'clock rolls around and you're leaving, you're leaving the yoga studio, you got your rolled up mat, you're with those other people. They're all fucking did it. Everybody did it. We fucking did it. We got up early, we did the 90 minute class, and now I'm gonna go to work, and now I got some momentum. But it's hard to just make that first step. And that's one tiny little step in this gigantic journey of self-improvement.

4 (2h 24m 56s):
And if you don't take those steps at all, if you're that fucking dude that just gets at home and just medicated, watching Netflix, Uber Eats, wake up, do it all over again, you're gonna feel like shit.

1 (2h 25m 7s):
Well, I think it's hard for people to take the first step. I think a, because a big part of depression is feeling like it's gonna last forever. It's kind of the delusion that, that feeling pitches you. Yeah. It's a weird mindset where you, everything is poisoned. Every thought you have is poisoned with this negativity, and you start to actually think back at your life and think that it was all that way when it wasn't. Mm. And that's,

4 (2h 25m 32s):
It's hard to remember the good times.

1 (2h 25m 33s):
And it, yeah. When you're in a dark place, I think the thing to remember is that it, it doesn't like it like the suicide, it, it suicide comes in your brain as like an escape hatch. It's like your fight or flight thing going like, this is an escape. Right. It's trying to help. Right. Right. It's like when your immune system is overactive. Yeah. It's like your fight or flight is overactive. So you have to remember that and just get, getting help. People sometimes just don't get help because of shame or whatever. but it, it always ends The bad always ends. Yeah. If you, if you put the work in and remember that it doesn't last forever and that your thoughts are not, it's, it's a delusion you're in right now. It's not real.

1 (2h 26m 14s):
Like it's, your brain is playing a trick on you. It's, it's not a real, it's not a reflection of reality. It's a reflection of the way you feel and the way you feel is fucked up right now. And that's changeable. Yeah. But it's hard to realize that when you're in it. And that's why people struggle with it. And they make, you know, unfortunate decisions. And some people take their lives and stuff like that. It's, yeah, because they mistake it for something that's, that's unchangeable, that's ever present, because that's the way it feels. But feelings are not facts. Ask Ben Shapiro.

4 (2h 26m 47s):
He seems to get in its feelings a lot. Yeah.

1 (2h 26m 50s):
Well, it depends on if Israel,

4 (2h 26m 51s):
Israel is, Israel

1 (2h 26m 52s):
Comes up, he's feelings. He's a lot of feelings.

4 (2h 26m 54s):
Oh boy. He is. He's all in.

1 (2h 26m 58s):
He's all in on Felix when it comes to

4 (2h 27m 2s):
That. What a crazy world We're living in Yannis Pappas.

1 (2h 27m 5s):
It's gotten crazy, man. It's gotten crazy. You got, you got a couple conflicts that you hope don't escalate and don't spill over. At

4 (2h 27m 11s):
Least we still got shit talking. At least we still got a little standup comedy and some cigars.

1 (2h 27m 20s):
Comedy helps people,

4 (2h 27m 22s):
Helps me. Yeah. I hang out with just hanging out with Tim Dillon for three hours, even though he, he has a doom scenario that he is painting. It's hilarious. Oh,

1 (2h 27m 31s):
He's so funny with it. and I just,

4 (2h 27m 32s):
Just, he's so good at Rant

1 (2h 27m 33s):
And I love to just listen to him and let him go. Oh yeah. He just goes, we have great times.

4 (2h 27m 37s):
He's the absolute best ranter about like, current issues, like with, with no audience, sunglasses on out of his fucking mind, making great points and also being hilarious.

1 (2h 27m 51s):
He is the best. And he's original. He's absolutely original. He's been that way since the moment I met him. I met him when he first started doing comedy. One of the first shows he did was My Room. And he's been that way. That's who he is off stage. That's who he is on all his material comes from inside. A lot of people get their material. It looks like Cool. Mo d

4 (2h 28m 12s):
Skull and Bones sucks. Now gimme some of this. They're, they're doing like diversity, equity and inclusion in the Illuminati

21 (2h 28m 21s):
Skull and Bones, which is used to be just, let's get a bunch of people that show that they can carry on the tradition of being a sociopath. That's what Skull and Bones is about. It's like finding rich people that have a skill set that makes 'em look like maybe they, maybe, hey, hey, maybe they can be sociopaths. And it's, it's in, at Yale University, the CIA started, it was taken right outta Skull and Bones. Okay. So many bones men have risen positions of prominence and power, you know, presidents, CEOs, we get it.

21 (2h 29m 3s):
A lot of white guys. Lot of white guys. They would jerk off in the coffins. It was very like Nazi. I think George W. Bush stole Geronimo's skull and it was in the tomb and there's all this secret in the tomb and he bleeped it now it's likeno. They're

4 (2h 29m 21s):
Annoying.

21 (2h 29m 22s):
Yeah, he did. Because it's a short,

1 (2h 29m 23s):
So Oh yeah.

4 (2h 29m 25s):
Oh. So if you bleep it, it like cuts through the algorithm. Is that what it is? Yeah. Yes. Oh my God. They don't want cursing

1 (2h 29m 30s):
In the first

21 (2h 29m 30s):
Like 10 or 15 minutes or something.

1 (2h 29m 31s):
Oh,

4 (2h 29m 32s):
They're fucking you. There's getting yourself sensor. Even Tim Dylan has to beep things. Yeah,

1 (2h 29m 37s):
He's the guy. He sits, he thinks it, the material comes from his perspective. It's inside. A lot of guys search around, they look outside and they go, oh, I like that idea. And then they go, right, let me change it a little bit this

4 (2h 29m 47s):
Way. He's actually got opinions perspective,

1 (2h 29m 50s):
And he can come up with material on his own. Yeah. A lot of guys who end up taking stuff, they, it's, they struggle. They're very good performers, but they struggle with coming up with material on their own.

4 (2h 29m 59s):
Well it's because the very mindset that allows you to be creative is the opposite of the mindset that would make you play drives. That's

1 (2h 30m 6s):
Right. Yeah. And some guys are really good at marketing and that's a big thing now. Yeah. And you know, I've known a lot of people in advertising, mostly advertisers. They look at creative people, get the ideas and then make a commercial about it. And a lot of it's borrowed from, you know, actual artists. So it's the same kind of mindset. Yeah. and it works. And then when you take an idea, it's easier because you can see it works. So you're,

4 (2h 30m 29s):
That works got confidence.

1 (2h 30m 29s):
You a of confidence in it when you're going in. Well

4 (2h 30m 31s):
That's why the comics that get busted, they, they're specials after that are always terrible. Right. Because they got, because the material falls off a cliff. They

1 (2h 30m 38s):
Gotta come up with their own stuff and

4 (2h 30m 39s):
They're fucked. Yeah, they're fucked.

1 (2h 30m 41s):
So what I always think, like if you make it and you're a fraud, you don't really make it 'cause it's not you. Right. And that must not feel great. It

4 (2h 30m 47s):
Sucks. They live in hell. Giannis Pop is, you're the fucking man. I love you to death. Thank

1 (2h 30m 52s):
You. Thanks for

4 (2h 30m 52s):
Having me. Tell everybody where they could find you. Social media. Yeah. All that jazz.

1 (2h 30m 57s):
Yeah, please follow me. Giannis Pappas, wherever you do. Also come see me on the road please. Do you mind if I plug a date or two?

4 (2h 31m 3s):
Plug some motherfucking dates. Yes, please. Giannis papas.com. Oh,

1 (2h 31m 7s):
I put it on the airplane mode outta respect for,

4 (2h 31m 9s):
Oh, here we go. Miami Improv. January 19th, 2021. Cobbs Comedy in San Francisco. Good luck, fucker. February 9th and 10th. Have you been there lately?

1 (2h 31m 18s):
I haven't but I'm gonna get a p I'm, I'm having the plane land in the club and then sleeping in

4 (2h 31m 23s):
The club. There's a shit load of stuff. Atlanta, San Diego, San Diego, Stanford, Connecticut Vic Theater in Chicago. Denver Improv. Toronto.

1 (2h 31m 31s):
I'm gonna shoot my special, I'm shooting my special at the Royal Theater in Toronto. March 23rd, 24th.

4 (2h 31m 36s):
Oh shit. Yeah.

1 (2h 31m 36s):
Cleveland and then the rest. That's good. Beautiful San Francisco. Come see me.

4 (2h 31m 40s):
Yeah, please. Rational people. And

1 (2h 31m 42s):
My podcast, the Yannis Pappas hour.

4 (2h 31m 44s):
Yes sir. Yeah. Thank

1 (2h 31m 45s):
You brother. Thank you.