0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast, Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night, All day.

3 (12s):
Hello. Hi Good to see you my friend. How's, thanks so Good to

4 (15s):
See you. Great. Thanks so much for having me again.

3 (17s):
I'm so happy every time I see you that you're alive and well because you do some wild stuff, lady, you get involved in some, some situations.

4 (26s):
I do this, this past year was crazy. Yeah, yeah. This, we just had season four come out and it's my favorite season for many reasons, but also because it was quite the adventure.

3 (37s):
What did you get involved with this season?

4 (39s):
Oof. Well, it ended with a military coup in Africa where my team and I got stuck. Oh, so that was sort of what part of Africa? The kickoff to all of it. It was in Niger, so it's in the Sahil region of Africa. The US has actually a military presence. Remember a few years ago when there were these four US Marines that were killed in the sa in Niger, and nobody even knew they were there. Well, there's actually over a thousand troops stationed in Niger. And we were there in a little town called Aade, which is in sort of the southern border of the Sahara Desert. And we were doing a story about gold mining. So the story itself was incredible. We had to, you know, we had con military con convoy with us because it's incredibly dangerous part of the world.

4 (1m 24s):
You've got terrorism, you've got Isis Al-Qaeda, Boko Haram, we've got kidnappers. So it's very, very dangerous. So we'd gone there with the permission of the government, but only if we, we had to have a military con convoy with us at all times. So we're talking about four armored trucks with lots of trained soldiers that every time we stopped, they'd get out of the trucks and basically point their guns all around. They were very well trained. Wow. A lot of them are actually trained by the American military. And we went out into the desert and visited these gold mines, which are crazy. It was an eight hour off-roading into the desert to arrive at these illegal unregulated mines. We're going down these tunnels and it's, you know, a hundred meters down hand dog tunnels with no nothing to buttress them, no safety precautions or anything.

4 (2m 11s):
But we filmed it all and we get to the end and there's people basically mining for gold. And, and again, constantly with the idea that the military is telling us, okay, we have to film fast, we have to do this fast, we can't be out at night. So we went to a sort of safety, more safe location to sleep that night under the stars. And then the next day it's time to come back to aga de the town, which is about a hundred miles, but takes anywhere between like three to 12 hours to get, because you can, lots of things can happen along the way. And we arrived in aga de and we got worried that there had been a military coup and the president had been deposed and he was now being kidnapped inside the presidential palace.

4 (2m 54s):
Basically, he was stuck there with his family and that we were about to lose our military compound and security. And they closed all the land borders and the airspace and we were stuck with no way out. 'cause you can't travel by road without security in that part of the world. And there were no planes leaving. So we were stuck.

3 (3m 16s):
Wow. How long were you stuck for?

4 (3m 19s):
It was about nine days. The military, my god, who happened on a Wednesday and we left on a Thursday. Sorry. So eight, eight days. but it was eight incredibly scary days. You know, I'm, I've been a journalist covering black markets and going to war zones and conflict areas all my life. But this was, I think, the most uncomfortable and scared I've ever been because First of all the uncertainty of not knowing there were all these, the West African states were threatening invasion. The Merc, the Wagner group, the Russian mercenary group were saying that they were going to come and protect the new military co leaders. And so it was a power struggle between the United States and Russia. And that's sort of the last place you want to be.

4 (3m 59s):
Right. Wow. And again, no protection. I'm there with my team. I'm sort of the, the boss in that situation because I'm the owner of the company that produces this. I'm the host of the show, I'm the executive producer, and I felt very responsible for my team as well. And, and yeah, the clock is ticking and they're telling us that in a few days we're going to invade and there's gonna be a massive poss possibility of a massive war. And we are stuck with, again, no protection and no way out. So it was really, really scary. How

3 (4m 31s):
Did it get resolved?

4 (4m 32s):
Huh? That's the interesting part. So the funny thing is that the, there was an American military base, actually one of the biggest Air Force bases ever built. Costs over a hundred million dollars to build just two miles from our little hotel in aga de We were the only foreigners there, apart from aid workers that sort of live behind barbed wire and in compounds. But we were the only foreigner staying in a hotel. This hotel, interestingly enough, was actually built when Kadafi came to visit in the nineties or late eighties. and it was a rundown hotel. We were there again, no protection, nothing. And the military base is just two miles from us. And we'd tried to get inside the base to film and we'd been denied access to the base.

4 (5m 17s):
But when the coup happened, we managed to get a contact inside and started asking them, we're here with no security. Can you guys come and help us and figure out, you know, take us into the base. Something where all American citizens, except for our fix, our local guy who was actually from Mali, but everybody else was American. And they were stuck in this situation that all the other countries had had started calling this a coup. But the US government did not. And because the moment they called it a coup, they would have to remove the military, possibly remove military, remove their aid from the country. And that's the last thing you want to do. So they couldn't ev they didn't want to evacuate us. They didn't wanna wanna call it a coup.

4 (5m 58s):
They didn't wanna take, get us out of there. Their hands were sort of tied. That's how they told us. And we started seeing slowly as the day started passing and the situation was deteriorating, we started seeing, you know, the French were taking, were sending planes to take out all the French nationals, the British, the Portuguese, which is where I'm double nationality, where I'm from. And I'm on the phone with the ambassador for Portugal telling me there's a plane for you. There's like seats for you in the capitol, but the capitol is eight hours away or 12 hours away by land. And we can't go because there's, it's too dangerous. And no airplanes would take us there. And eventually we realize that the only way that we'd be able to get out is if we took matters into our own hands.

4 (6m 38s):
So actually my team in LA found an evacuation company willing to fly a plane in the middle of the night to get us out.

3 (6m 47s):
That sounds like a Chuck Norris movie. Oh,

4 (6m 49s):
It was, it was

3 (6m 50s):
Evacuation company.

4 (6m 51s):
Oh, it was actually Argo It was, have you watched the movie Argo? No. With Ben Affleck about the guys in Iran.

3 (6m 57s):
Oh yeah, no, I didn't watch that.

4 (6m 57s):
Yeah. And how they don't know until the last minute if they're going to leave or not. It was exactly that situation. So we get to the airport in the middle of the night. So they told us that we had to be at the airport at this time, that we had to take security with us because the pilot was refusing to land unless we had security there. Police, the police was supposed to show up. They never did. We arrive at the airport, it's sunrise, and the military is there waiting for us. Yeah. It's one of those. And they start creating all sorts of problems saying, we don't have the right paperwork, they're not gonna let us leave. Meanwhile, there was this amazing man, local man who worked at the airport that I'd met a few days before when I went there to try to see if there's any plane leaving, let us know.

4 (7m 43s):
And so I stayed in touch with him and I had told him that it was my son's birthday, which was partially not true. It wasn't his birthday, but he was about to leave camp. And I've got this tradition as a working mother who travels all the time. We have this tradition that I always pick him up from camp and it's performing arts camp. And, and so I told him, sorry, this is a very long story.

3 (8m 3s):
No, no, it's good.

4 (8m 4s):
So I told him, you know, and so he was there to help us, but the military was also there and they didn't want us to leave and creating all sorts of problems. And then we see the plane land and we see the pilot come out and we see the military start walking towards the pilot to tell them that we didn't have the permission to leave. And my fear was that the pilot was immediately going to turn around. 'cause he had told us that we had 20 minutes, he was gonna spend 20 minutes on the ground. Right. And if we couldn't get into the plane, he was gonna leave without us. And they get there and he starts talking to them. And I'm on the phone with the team in LA and I'm freaking out and telling them, oh, this is horrible. This is happening. They don't want us to leave. And then my husband's on the phone with me as well. He's telling me, I see the pilot's name and I think he's Portuguese, run to him.

4 (8m 48s):
and I ran to him at the same time as the military. and I started speaking to him in Portuguese and telling him the situation and that, do whatever you can to get us out. And the military can't understand Portuguese. So there was a secret communication happening between me and him. And, and he was Portuguese, and he decided to take the risk of getting us on the plane. And we managed to get out of it. But the, the, the guy from the military was still yelling as the door closes. But so was the guy that I'd met at the airport who turns to me, yells my name and I look back and he says, Hey, Mariana, say happy birthday to your son. So in the midst of the craziness, it was also a beautiful moment of connection and humanity.

3 (9m 28s):
You've done so many of these boots on the ground, dangerous investigative journalist shows. Do you, do you, at a certain point in time, do you like say, okay, I've I've rolled the dice enough?

4 (9m 41s):
No. Wow. No, it's really, it's what I love to do. Obviously that was a moment of a lot of uncertainty. But still, when we spent a week on the ground and we still kept on reporting on the story, we were there for, we, we kept, we're stuck in this dilemma. Do we stay closed in our hotel or do we go out and continue reporting on the story? We decided to keep reporting. but it it is, it is, you know, there's a lot of sacrifice that goes into it, but I'm, it's what I love to do. It's

3 (10m 8s):
So sketchy.

4 (10m 9s):
Yeah. Sometimes it's sketchy. Not always, but

3 (10m 11s):
Sometimes. Well, the gold mine itself, just going down these hand with no buttresses, hand carved gold mines like, ugh.

4 (10m 17s):
Yeah. And these guys do it every single day for hours on end. Ugh.

3 (10m 22s):
Yeah. And who are they digging gold for?

4 (10m 24s):
They sell it to middlemen. We then went and interviewed the middleman, A guy called Ley super colorful character who basically then sells it to the Gulf. Majority of the gold goes to Dubai. Really? Yeah.

3 (10m 37s):
Dubai loves that bling.

4 (10m 38s):
Oh, they love the bling. They

3 (10m 39s):
Love the bling out there. They do. Have you ever seen the amount of gold that exists on earth?

4 (10m 45s):
No.

3 (10m 46s):
The, the finite amount of gold that exists on earth is shockingly small. Shockingly small. Jamie, see if you could find that the amount of gold that exists on earth. Yeah. I forget what the exact unit of measurement that they used, but you go, what, what? That's it. 244,000 metric tons of gold has been discovered to date. Most of that gold has come from three countries. China, Australia and South Africa. South Africa.

4 (11m 14s):
Wow.

3 (11m 15s):
So,

4 (11m 16s):
Wow. Yeah. This is why.

3 (11m 18s):
But if you like, I've seen it represented there. There it is. Yeah's it. That's the whole, no. Yep. That's it.

4 (11m 25s):
No way.

3 (11m 25s):
Yep. That's it. Oh wow. It's all the gold. So if you, what we're seeing folks is a couple of large trucks and what looks like a half a football field of gold. Is that about right? About a half football field? Yeah. Yeah. I mean this is about a half a football field full of gold and it's stacked up about, looks like it's about five feet high. Wow. Now maybe a little higher. Maybe it was six feet high, but that's it. Yeah. It's all the gold. Yeah.

4 (11m 51s):
Which is why the price fluctuates

3 (11m 53s):
Sort. But I don't get it. don don't even like it.

4 (11m 56s):
I'm not part,

3 (11m 57s):
I don't like gold jewelry. It just, I like silver. Silver looks prettier to me. Yeah. It's just like, I get it. I get it. That pe people like it, it's rare and it's, but it's, it's weird that it's rare. Not that it's rare, but it's weird that we care. Like it doesn't even do anything. It's not like you can make a weapon out of it. It's not like, like how did that stuff ever become the thing that is universally regarded as the most valuable in term and was backed our currency forever until the seventies? Yeah. What?

4 (12m 28s):
Yeah,

3 (12m 28s):
What is that? Yeah. Why are we obsessed with that stupid soft metal? Because

4 (12m 32s):
It's pretty, because there's not a lot of it.

3 (12m 34s):
There's a lot of shit. That's pretty why, you know. Absolutely. You know how come rubies aren't worth as much? You know, maybe they are don don't know, but like, there's a lot of stuff that's pretty Yeah. Why is that stuff the, the thing that everybody wants to trade. Yeah.

4 (12m 46s):
And diamonds as well is another one that I don't quite get. But

3 (12m 50s):
Yeah. Diamonds are really weird because diamonds they can make now. Yeah. But women don't want the made ones. Isn't that crazy?

4 (12m 58s):
It is. But you can barely tell apparently the difference. So

3 (13m 2s):
How can you tell Yeah. Who, what kind of psycho and, and

4 (13m 4s):
Why do you, why do you care? Yeah.

3 (13m 6s):
Are you going over your diamond with a magnifying glass before you decide whether or not it's worthy of you wearing it? Like Right. What is, what's happening here? Yeah.

4 (13m 14s):
Agreed.

3 (13m 15s):
It's a rarity thing, you know? Yeah. And it's also, it's like there's something sick about it. Like you want the ones that were created by the earth only that people had to risk their life to get not like some really fascinating piece of innovation that has allowed them to I mean they can make large diamonds now. Yeah.

4 (13m 31s):
And they look exactly like the real ones. Yeah. But

3 (13m 34s):
They're not. Yeah. I know, but they're not I know. It's fake. It's not even fake. It's a real diamond, but it's a diamond that's made by humans. But

4 (13m 41s):
Do you think women really don't, I haven't heard like people really say, I don't want this because it's not

3 (13m 46s):
Oh yeah. I've had a conversation

4 (13m 49s):
With somebody who said that. Yeah,

3 (13m 50s):
Mrs. Rogan

4 (13m 54s):
Not going to criticize your wife.

3 (13m 56s):
She, she's not. She's just like, I'd rather that real one. I'm like, that is a real one. Does this doesn't make any sense. I'm like, help me out. Just, but it wasn't an argument or anything, but I'm like, I don't get it. I know. Why is that?

4 (14m 9s):
I don't either. You know, we had, when I was, one of the first stories I did with my husband back in the day when we were still traveling and reporting together was actually in the Brazilian Amazon. and it was about this one of the biggest diamond minds they've ever found. and it was on Indian land and white miners came in and the Indians decided to revolt and killed and tortured and cut off the penises of 30 of them. And you know, we killed 30 people, massacred and tortured lots of them. and it was horrible. And we went there and started investigating this. And we weren't married. He was my boyfriend at the time. We were planning on getting married. But we had, we were in these little tiny, you know, wild west towns in the Amazon and the amount of people that we had come up to us and actually with little paper bags, like rolled paper with little diamonds on the side asking us if we wanted to buy it for nothing.

4 (14m 60s):
Like close to nothing. Wow. We thought about it, but we didn't.

3 (15m 3s):
Yeah. It doesn't seem like you should.

4 (15m 6s):
No,

3 (15m 7s):
No. Maybe if you found one, but

4 (15m 10s):
Just, well we actually went to the mines and I remember that's what happens. We went to gold mines in the Amazon as well for another story is that when you're in these places, you're, you can't stop looking at the ground if you find any chance you find anything, but obviously,

3 (15m 24s):
Yeah. How difficult is it for them to find diamonds? 'cause that's the thing about the DeBeers, they're so smart with what they've done. They basically have warehouses filled with diamonds. I know. And they've elevated the price to pretend that they're rare, but they're not really rare anymore because of their mining abilities. The the, the technology's increased the Right,

4 (15m 43s):
They control the price that way. Yeah.

3 (15m 45s):
Right. It's pretty smart.

4 (15m 47s):
Very smart. Yeah. It's difficult to find a mine diamond. It's really difficult. I mean there's a lot of backbreaking work. We went to Sierra, Leona did another story about that too. It's backbreaking work. It's not not easy. And they make nothing, you know, the miners make nothing. Yeah.

3 (16m 1s):
That's where it's really creepy. Yeah. Well that's why they revolted. Yeah. So they pay those guys better. Well, wouldn't have lost your penis

4 (16m 7s):
For sure.

3 (16m 11s):
Well that's also the story of cell phones, right? I mean. Yeah. The rare sidharth carra that was on, and he discussed his work in the Congo where they were investigating these cobal mines. And in everyone's cell phone is a piece of cobalt. Yeah. And there's a very high likelihood that was pulled outta one of these artesian mines by people who are working for basically slave wages. Women with babies on their backs while they're doing it. They're, they're hand digging this stuff. So you're, they're inhaling these toxic fumes from this cobalt. Yeah. That's, and it, it's, it's, it's so I mean I don wanna say that, look, we we're capable of better, but what we are as a species, that is like one of the best indicators of how twisted we are.

3 (16m 60s):
That the very height of technology that is carried by all these social justice warriors and all these virtue signaling people online. You're literally doing it from a device that's made by slaves. Yeah. At the root of it is slave labor. Right. and it's unavoidable.

4 (17m 18s):
Yeah. I mean. Yeah. But the same people that would probably never buy a diamond ring. Right? Yeah.

3 (17m 24s):
'cause or I guess don don't know. Yeah.

4 (17m 26s):
Yeah.

3 (17m 27s):
I mean it's just weird. It's just weird that, that we know that that is where the stuff comes from. Right. Well it's also weird that we don't even manufacture a single cell phone in America with all parts sourced and put together in America. That's totally possible. Yeah. That you could buy a phone that is completely ethical, that's pay made by people that were paid a, a fair wage and they, you know, work normal hours and they have great healthcare and all that stuff. That's, that's possible. And you would think that a, a device that is literally owned by every single human. There are more cell phones in this country than our human beings.

3 (18m 7s):
Oh

4 (18m 7s):
Wow.

3 (18m 8s):
And yet, no, we don't make a single one over here.

4 (18m 12s):
It's, it's cheaper

3 (18m 12s):
Concept. Exactly. It's cheaper. Yeah. I mean even places like China where they make the cell phones, where they have the foxcon factory that's covered with nets to keep people from jumping off the roof. 'cause so many people committing suicide 'cause their life sucks so hard that instead of fixing their life, they just put nets up.

4 (18m 31s):
That's

3 (18m 32s):
Insane. Have you ever seen that? The Foxman building? No. It's so dystopian.

4 (18m 35s):
Really? They have nets at the bottom of the building

3 (18m 38s):
All around the building, all around the outside edge of the building to keep people from jumping. That's crazy.

4 (18m 44s):
That is insane. I've tried to go to China so many times to report on It's almost impossible to get

3 (18m 48s):
In. Yeah, they know. You press that lady's not coming in.

4 (18m 51s):
She's not coming

3 (18m 52s):
In. That lady spills the beans.

4 (18m 54s):
Yeah. Congo is really interesting. We were there for an ape story and you know, one of the things that happened with the rare earth minerals and all of that is that the US used to control a lot of those mines. And then China, they sold them to China. Oops. And now a lot of the stuff we need for the future is in the hands of China. It's so stupid.

3 (19m 14s):
That's very American.

4 (19m 15s):
Yeah. Very American. Yeah. Very. Yeah.

3 (19m 19s):
Yeah. It's, it's dark. It's just crazy that it's, there's so much exploitation in that country. You know, that continent is just flooded with exploitation.

4 (19m 29s):
It's so, it's and it's stunningly beautiful. We were doing a story about ape trafficking and it really is, it's the second largest country in Africa in terms of land. and it's got the most beautiful parks and rivers. It's stunning. It could be, you know, a huge tourism destination. We had the opportunity of hiking up this Kahui Viega National Park that leads up to the gorillas where we saw gorillas in the wild. and it was beautiful. Beautiful. Stunningly beautiful.

3 (19m 59s):
Who, who's trafficking in apes?

4 (20m 0s):
Oh, well a lot of them are ending up in the Arabian Gulf in Dubai again.

3 (20m 6s):
What do they do with 'em?

4 (20m 7s):
They put them in private zoos that they've been then charge visitors to come and see. They put them in private homes, people that want to have exotic pets in their house. Someone

3 (20m 18s):
Has a gorilla in their house.

4 (20m 19s):
Oh, they do gorillas go for $500,000 or more. Wow. It's a crazy gorilla that they catch in the wild. And the scent part about it is that to be able to catch that gorilla, they then, and the same thing with chimpanzees. They have to kill the whole family because, you know, they're very social and

3 (20m 37s):
Babys being stolen for pets. Yeah. Middles being done to stop it. Yeah. $550,000 for baby

4 (20m 42s):
Gorilla

3 (20m 42s):
Trade banned for Asian, African Greek eggs in China, middle East and Pakistan.

4 (20m 47s):
Pakistan, yeah.

3 (20m 49s):
Wow. So they have to kill the whole family.

4 (20m 50s):
They kill the whole family, Joe. It's horrible. And the same

3 (20m 53s):
Thing. Why, why do they have to kill the whole family?

4 (20m 54s):
Because, for example, if baby chimps, you can't carry your life chimp, for example, because they're too dangerous. And so it's the Bota pygmies we spoke, we did the whole chain of who, who hunts them, who kills them, who transports them, and then who buys them. And we started with in the park with the Bota pygmies. You had a GA guest that I remember when I was doing research for the story. I listened to, didn't you have a guest here, Justin Ren, who talked Yeah. Who did the story about,

3 (21m 20s):
About that. Forgotten. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (21m 22s):
So the pygmies, you know, they've sort of lost their home, which is the forest. The Congolese government says they can't be there and they have no money and no schools and no education and nothing desperate situations. So these people come out and say, if you get us a baby chimp, we'll pay you $10, $10 for a baby chimp. And they go out. And the problem with baby chimps is that until they're 5-year-old, five years old, they live at the hip of the mother, like always next to the mother. It's the way they, their family is. And so unable to be able to take and kidnap the child. They have to kill the whole family because they, they estimate the average is like 10 chimps have to be killed in order to be able to take away one baby.

3 (22m 5s):
Because they'll attack.

4 (22m 6s):
Because they'll attack. Yeah. They won't, they won't let you leave with a baby. Yeah. It's very, very sad. So we're talking to these guys who have done this.

3 (22m 17s):
How much of a market is there? Like how mu how many are they trading?

4 (22m 20s):
There's a lot, lots being sold. So we then went online and did this whole investigation and found that it's actually super easy. There are people online that you can reach out to and they will get you a chimpanzee. Oh. Or, or baby gorilla. It's crazy. And then, yeah. And then they're transported and sometimes private planes to these places. And then, you know, tourists in Dubai can take photos with little baby chimps. Jesus

3 (22m 43s):
Christ.

4 (22m 44s):
Or baby gorillas. Yeah.

3 (22m 47s):
I'm sure you know about that lady in Connecticut that had a full grown chimpanzee in her home. And then her friend came over and the chimp decided didn't like her friend. So it ripped his, ripped her face off. Oh no. Just tore apart. Yeah,

4 (22m 58s):
Yeah.

3 (22m 58s):
Yeah. They, they're ruthless. They

4 (23m 0s):
Are. They're, yeah. You shouldn't have one in your homes. Yeah, that's for sure.

3 (23m 4s):
And you, you're not gonna stop them unless you shoot 'em. They're, they're so powerful. There's not a damn thing you can do to stop them from ripping your face off. Right.

4 (23m 11s):
Yeah. It's, it's the dark antle of it all. You know, remember Doc Ansel Tiger King? Do you remember that guy? Yeah. Yeah. A lot of them. It's basically people around the world wanting to be Doc Antle and having like a private safari that celebrities come to what

3 (23m 26s):
A Bazar need, what Bazar want. Have a bunch of locked up exotic primates in cages you can just stare at.

4 (23m 37s):
But also what a Bazar need it is that we want to take photos and selfies with tigers and apes. Like why?

3 (23m 43s):
I went to a tiger sanctuary in Thailand with my family a few years back. And the beginning is kind of cool. 'cause the beginning you're around the, the kittens and the cubs are like super energetic and they're jumping around and attacking things. These little tiny tigers. They're really cool. But it's just like, wow. And there's a lot of people in the, in the room with make sure that the tigers don't go crazy and they're little. Yeah. And then it gets to a slightly larger tiger and there's men with sticks. And you could sit there, there's like a picture of my daughter when she was 10. She's like sitting there smiling. She's sitting next to a tiger. A small tiger. It's like 40 pounds or something like that. Then when they get bigger, they're drugged.

3 (24m 24s):
So these people go in the cage with this massive tiger. And the tiger is just like,

4 (24m 29s):
Yeah.

3 (24m 29s):
They're just all fucking heroine out and these people take selfies. and it was so sad. And I'm like, we have to leave. I'm so depressed.

4 (24m 36s):
Do you remember the name of that place?

3 (24m 38s):
I do not because we, but it isn't, it was in Chiang Mai. Yeah.

4 (24m 42s):
Yeah. It's really sad. And the babies are also taken from their mothers. Yeah. It's, you're not supposed to be handling baby cubs that young. Yes. All of

3 (24m 50s):
It is bad. Exactly. It's all bad. And, but it's just like, I didn't realize they were drugged. Yeah. I thought they just fed them a lot. And the tigers are cool. Nope. No, no. They're drugged. They're really drugged. Like you see them, they're just like not, they don't move at all. They just lay around. So they just get these tigers hooked on heroin.

4 (25m 9s):
Is it heroin?

3 (25m 10s):
I mean, it must be, it must be some sort of an opiate, something like that. Morphine something, something that just cos 'em out. Right. Because they were just sitting there like nodding. And these is massive, gorgeous apex predator and it's all just so that people could take pictures with them.

4 (25m 26s):
Right. And so you decided to leave?

3 (25m 28s):
Yeah. I'm like, no, we're not going there. I, I got weirded out when we got to the mid-size cats. 'cause I was like, that cat is a little dangerous even though it's only like 40 pounds. They're still a little sketchy. Like this is a little weird. and I went in there and I was like, it seems like it's okay. Let's just say take a picture real quick, let's get outta here. But then when you get to the big cats, it's like massive depression sets in. You're like, oh no. Yeah.

4 (25m 50s):
So terrible. Yeah.

3 (25m 51s):
'cause I'm just enamored with cats. Especially tigers. Huh? I just think nature created like the most beautiful, terrifying thing. I mean if, if a tiger wasn't real, it's right out of avatar. I mean with their, their insane colorations and their, their fangs and their, the way they can leap their capabilities. I'm sure you've seen that video of the guy who was on the elephant and the tiger leaps through the grass and gets him while he's on the, you ever seen that? No. Oh. It's one of my favorites. 'cause this guy is in India and he's on this elephant and he's riding this elephant and you see the grass move ahead of him. And this tiger leaps like 15 feet in the air and slashes at this guy.

3 (26m 35s):
And he is just lucky he got out of it with just getting cut up. Oh, watch

4 (26m 39s):
This. My god, that is a

3 (26m 41s):
Nightmare. So the guy's on the elephant, look at this cat.

4 (26m 44s):
Oh

3 (26m 44s):
My God. Look how it leaps. I mean, look at the size of this thing, but watch out. And he's like, he's all these got like a little stick. Oh my God. He's like, stop. Don't do this to me. Don't do it. Look at that thing just, oh my god, catch air. God, look at it, catch air like, oh my God. It just flies at him. Holy shit. And swipes and just ripped his arm apart. That

4 (27m 8s):
Is insane. Yeah. Raise your shark. His arm apart. His

3 (27m 10s):
Arms. That's what happened. Like at the end of it, his arm's like half dead.

4 (27m 12s):
That is insane. Oh my god. Oh.

3 (27m 16s):
Such a terrifying creature.

4 (27m 18s):
That scares me to death when people always ask, what if I'm scared of the work that I do meeting, I'm much more scared of animals than I am of people.

3 (27m 26s):
Well, there's a place in India called the Sunderbans. And the problem with that area is that tigers have been actively targeting people there for over a hundred years. And so I think the numbers over the last a hundred years, 300,000 people there have been killed by tigers.

4 (27m 44s):
Oh my. That is insane. Yeah. The people that just live there and work, probably farmers that are working farm

3 (27m 50s):
And villages. Well, there's a bunch of things that happens. One, the typhoons come in and people die and they drown and they wind up in the river and the tigers eat them. And then two, there's an issue. 300 people and 46 tigers have been killed since two thou 2000 in human tiger conflicts in the cinder bands. They've, they've done a lot to mitigate it. That's only the last, that's since 2000. That's over the last 23 years. It used to be a lot worse. And the the also, the problem is that the water is brackish. And so the tigers are drinking salt water and apparently it irritates them. It's like very painful. So you got these angry, pissed off tigers that actively hunt humans.

3 (28m 35s):
And so these guys that go out to try to survey, they, they're always trying to figure out how many tigers are there. They have to wear these helmets that protect the back of their heads. And the helmet have a mask on the back of the head so that the tigers like to sneak up on you. And if they see your face, they're less likely to attack. They like to attack you when your back is turned. So they have these helmets with a mask on the back to confuse the tigers.

4 (29m 1s):
And what are they doing to try and protect the villagers now?

3 (29m 4s):
Guns. That's it. I mean, what are they gonna do? Right. There's so many of 'em. Right. I mean it's where they live and it's like a dense jungle. So good luck finding all of them. Oh,

4 (29m 13s):
That's so crazy. You, we, we did a story on tiger trafficking and in season one I think. And we spent the night in Thailand in one of these jungles where the last remaining tigers in Thailand are, and I I mean we were camping out with hammocks and I didn't sleep at all because we've been spending the day they're showing us videos of the camera, the little cameras that they have activated all throughout the park, the jungle, so that when they step on it, it'll activates. Right. So you see the tigers in the wild and they're beautiful, but then you have to sleep the night there. I didn't sleep at all. It was the worst night of my life. Yeah.

3 (29m 50s):
Yeah. God. Yeah. It's an amazing animal though. They're incredible. I mean. I mean, it's fascinating and incredible that they exist, but this desire that people have to kidnap them and bring them to America and put them in a cage so they could just point to 'em and stare at 'em. It's

4 (30m 6s):
Crazy weird.

3 (30m 7s):
Yeah, it's really weird.

4 (30m 9s):
Yeah, it is very strange. Yeah. Yeah. People, again, the people that go to these places as well to take photos. don don't, don don't get it.

3 (30m 16s):
What else did you cover this season?

4 (30m 19s):
This season was a good one. You know, we started the first episode, we went back to my hometown Portugal. We did an episode on hash hash trafficking. Oh, it's, most Americans don't know a lot about hash actually, but

3 (30m 31s):
Most Americans You don't know.

4 (30m 39s):
But it's the first drug that people in the in Europe usually try. Yeah. It's the marijuana of Europe we'd say, or the rest

3 (30m 46s):
Of the world actually. Well it is T

4 (30m 47s):
Hc, right? It is, yeah. Yeah. It's from the resin glands. So it's, yeah,

3 (30m 50s):
It's just super, super duper potent. Super

4 (30m 52s):
Potent. Yeah. Yeah. So it's the first drug I tried, the first drug that any of my friends Portugal tried. And you know, back then when I was a kid and trying hash for the first time, I always sort of wondered where does this come from? And we knew that it was Morocco. Everybody knows that the majority of hash in the world comes from Morocco. But now I thought, wow, I'm the unique opportunity to actually go and try to figure out, out how it gets here. And so we started in Portugal and I reached out to a bunch of my girlfriends in Portugal and said, Hey, let's meet at this time in the rocks where we used to like hang out and hide and smoke hash and, and, and we'll film a scene of us talking about while we're smoking. So I actually smoked on camera for the first time.

4 (31m 34s):
Did drugs on camera

3 (31m 36s):
In Portugal. It's all decriminalized

4 (31m 37s):
Though, correct? Yeah. It's been decriminalized since 2001. So completely legal to do.

3 (31m 40s):
And it's an amazing success story.

4 (31m 42s):
Amazing success

3 (31m 43s):
Story in terms of addiction, crime, violence, everything went down

4 (31m 47s):
HIV rates, incarceration. Amazing.

3 (31m 49s):
All

4 (31m 49s):
Of it. Yeah. So what they did is, yeah, they decriminalize it. So you can use, if you're caught using any drug, even hard drugs, nothing happens to you but you, you're not allowed to traffic or sell it. Right. But if you are caught, they basically give you the option. If you're caught smoking or doing heroin, they'll ask you, you know, instead of, they realize that they will pay much more by putting somebody in prison than they will by actually giving them treatment. So if you're, if you're, if they see that you're using heroin, they'll can go up to you and say, look, we'll give you the opportunity. You do You wanna go to prison or do you wanna go to treatment? The vast majority of people will say treatment and the government actually pays less for treatment than they do free incarcerations. So it's that wild.

4 (32m 30s):
It's wild. And you'd think that, you know, people would've used this example and it would've spread around

3 (32m 36s):
The world. Well the problem with America is the system is, it's so deeply unjust that there's privatized prisons and there's union guards. So the, the guards union, the prison guards union actively campaign to stop drugs from being decriminalized and made legal because that would take them outta work. Right.

4 (32m 59s):
And and the private prison complex too. Yeah.

3 (33m 2s):
Yeah. It's a business. It is. It's, they use human beings as batteries to generate money. Yeah. Just put them inside this box and you can generate money with human beings. So you find reasons to put them in. I'm sure you heard about that. There was a judge in Pennsylvania that got arrested because he was sending children to prison. He was sending children to juveniles detention centers that were innocent. And he just, like every ki kid that went through his court system, he just shipped away. He

4 (33m 31s):
Got a kickback or he

3 (33m 32s):
Got a kickback. Yeah.

4 (33m 34s):
Right.

3 (33m 34s):
Yeah. So this guy, how many lives did he ruin? Yeah. Who knows? And how many lives did they ruin because of the abuse that they suffered? Yeah. They wound up having this tortured existence and they went out and committed more crimes and ruined more lives. And this one fucking judge.

4 (33m 48s):
Yeah, it's sick and it's the wrong people that end up going to prison

3 (33m 52s):
That well. That guy fortunately did go to prison, the judge. But how many, how many similar situations are there out there? Yeah. How many people have not been caught? How many people are more subtle about it? Yeah,

4 (34m 2s):
Yeah,

3 (34m 3s):
Yeah. It's pretty twisted. It's

4 (34m 5s):
Horrible. It's really bad.

3 (34m 6s):
So this, this, when they go and they kidnap these chimpanzees and kill their families, is there any, anything that's being done to stop this? Is there, are there like organizations that go out and police? Is there anything?

4 (34m 25s):
Yeah, there's definitely a bunch of organizations. We spent time with one called Conserve Congo, a local Congolese man who's trying to sort of investigate and stop it. We also spent, one of the best days of filming was spent, when we went to see the gorillas, we spent time with these park rangers. This guy's incredible, who's basically devoted his life to trying to protect these gorillas. So they go out with AK 40 sevens every day up in the mountains and go up and spend time with this family or these families of gorillas to try and make sure that no one is coming and hurting them. But it's really dangerous work. It takes resources. The hope is that they can sort of turn a little bit of this area of the Congo to what has Rwanda nowadays.

4 (35m 10s):
You can go to Rwanda and you can go to Uganda and see gorillas and as tourists you pay, you can pay a lot of money, but it provides jobs and helps the local economy. So it basically, the idea is that you dissuade poachers from coming in, right. And you give op jobs to people who would otherwise perhaps become poachers. And so yeah, that's being done. And yeah, it was, it was actually incredible when you, we spent don don't know, like three hours hiking through very thick jungle. And then suddenly, and you're seeing the signs that the gorillas are there, you're seeing, they, you know, their poop is there. They nested here and he's telling us along the way, but you're still unsure if you're actually going to see a gorilla.

4 (35m 51s):
And sometimes, and suddenly they're completely nonchalant. They say, oh, it's right here. I was like, what? And there's this huge silverback gorilla just stand just sitting there. And the whole family is there. They had had a baby, the mother had had a baby just the week before. And this is, you know, animals that are being pushed the brink of extinction. So it was really special. It was a week of celebration at the park and we saw the little baby and there was a moment that we're filming and my producer and my team is like next to me. And then another huge gorilla comes jumping and brushes right by them. So

3 (36m 26s):
They don't bother people at all.

4 (36m 28s):
No. So I think that they have to be, become used to the presence of humans. So a lot of the park ranger's job is actually to get them to get used to pre presence with the hope that they can bring in tourism again. So I think that's part of what they do. So this family of gorillas was used to people and they don't bother you at all. And we were this distance from the gorilla me to you and I was just looking at

3 (36m 51s):
What country the trafficker's coming from.

4 (36m 53s):
Most of them, the hunters are from the Congo, they're the pygmies, the ba, Bazar, pygmies, the middlemen are Congolese men that see an opportunity. And then the, the buyers, which is the brawl problem, always lies on demand, right. Are are from the Gulf countries, the majority of them. But you know, it's not very different from all the other trades and the tigers that you can see at Doc Ansel's facility and all the others. Yeah. So, and we blame ourselves as well here. Yeah.

3 (37m 20s):
Yeah. I guess. Yeah.

4 (37m 21s):
People

3 (37m 22s):
Are so weird.

4 (37m 23s):
Right?

3 (37m 24s):
So weird and cruel.

4 (37m 25s):
So weird. Yeah. Wait, you talked about hash for a second. You've tried hash. Yeah. Yep. And it's great.

3 (37m 31s):
Yeah, I like it.

4 (37m 33s):
It's, it's, you think it is stronger than weed?

3 (37m 36s):
Well it's just concentrated. Yeah. You know, it's like high THC. It's

4 (37m 41s):
Resin. And if you saw how it's made, it's incredible. We went up to the, it's the key Kif mountains in, in Morocco. They basically, it's these like farmers and they beat these drums so that the, the resin and the little seeds come out. Then they mix it all into like this paste and yeah, it's actually a beautiful process. Very dangerous. Because obviously when there's a lot of money, black markets.

3 (38m 6s):
Yeah. What do they do with the rest of the plant? The leaves and all that stuff?

4 (38m 10s):
I think they don't use it. It was just there. Interesting. They dry the whole plant and the leaves and then Yeah. It's this like drum process where the stuff they want falls to the bottom. And then I

3 (38m 20s):
Wonder why some countries gravitated towards that method of using cannabis. Right. And not just smoking it like they do in most of the country. Right. Most of the world rather.

4 (38m 31s):
Yeah. and I wonder what came first. I don't know either. Yeah. But I'd probably think that hash came first and then really the Americans came up with weed. I'm not sure. I don't know.

3 (38m 40s):
I bet it was the opposite. I bet weed came first. It just, it's just, it's a strange thing that it's still illegal in so many parts of the world. And then, you know, fentanyl isn't right. Heroin isn't, or opiates aren't, right. Yeah.

4 (38m 58s):
Oxycontin. Yeah. Yep. I know it's wild. Wow.

3 (39m 2s):
Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean unfortunately because of our prison industrial complex, I don't, I just don't see a mass decriminalization akin to what's happening in Portugal, despite of what's going on on our southern border and the, the fentanyl trafficking and the fact that it's propping up these cartels and they're, they're worth billions and billions of dollars. They are

4 (39m 25s):
'cause of that. And they're mixing it and all sorts of drugs, as you know, we're working on an episode on fentanyl. We've done the whole opiate crisis and everything. But

3 (39m 33s):
I'm smoking did not become common in Old World until after the introduction of tobacco in the 15 hundreds. Hashish was consumed as an edible in the Muslim world. Interesting. Oh, the first, yeah. First attestation of the term Hashish is a pamphlet published in Cairo in 1123. Oh wow. Current era accusing nazar Muslims of being hashish eaters. The cult of nazar militants, which emerge after the fall of the fat caliphate, is commonly called the sect of the assassins. A corruption of ha hasian Persian for hashish smokers.

3 (40m 14s):
Wow. So assassins, a corruption of the order of the assassins. Simply the assassins were a nazar. Is that the original term of assassin? Is that where it came from?

5 (40m 28s):
Don don't know. Let's see. I mean this might take a little more.

3 (40m 33s):
Yeah. How weird, huh?

5 (40m 36s):
I mean that would be

3 (40m 37s):
Like a, the modern term assassination is believed to stem from the tactics used by the assassins. Oh, wow. Wow. So it's all about hash. Assassin comes from hash. That's nuts.

4 (40m 51s):
We did an episode on assassins this season as well. Oh

3 (40m 54s):
Really?

4 (40m 54s):
Yeah, that was, I was fucking wild. I was insane. It's big I mean, obviously it's subject matter that I've wanted to do for a long time. It's almost an impossible one to do for many reasons, as you could imagine. But we actually found all started with an interview that we did with an assassin in LA Yeah. About 15 minutes from my house in la and we have a contact in LA that whenever we're looking at and the black markets, we contact him and ask him, Hey, do you know anyone who's basically making meth or drugs or guns or whatnot? And you know, in the off chance that he knew an assassin, we contacted him and he said he actually did.

4 (41m 35s):
He knew a guy, he didn't think he was gonna talk to us, but maybe he did because he was close to him. And, and eventually this guy agreed to talk to us and we met him in the corner. And as we're driving there, so we're driving there with our local contact is taking us to meet this guy. And he told us, Hey, be very careful. This guy is like, the way he said it is like he's bipolar, kind of like he acts as if he's bipolar. One moment he's happy and the next he can just freakout and nobody knows why he's really hard, difficult to deal with. and I, I asked him, are you sure he's an assassin or is it possible that he's just boasting? That happens sometimes. And he said, no, no, no. I've seen this guy being offered $80,000 to go and kill someone.

4 (42m 18s):
And I know this is what he does. Everybody knows this guy in Wow. In his community, in his group.

3 (42m 23s):
So he operates in America.

4 (42m 24s):
He does, yeah. I asked him where, but he's based in LA but he says it's all over the United States mainly.

3 (42m 31s):
Wow.

4 (42m 32s):
And he, yeah, he, as soon as I met him, he took out his gun and he said, you guys, if you, if this is a fucking setup, you guys are all, it's gonna be really easy to kill you all right now. and it was me and three or four other people. And my fear, we told him we're not a, it's not a setup. So I just came here because I trust my, my buddy, but you know, you don't fuck me if the police shows up, you guys are all dead. So we're in a corner of la close to downtown, and I am constantly looking at the end of the road thinking if the police shows up by for any reason. Right. He's gonna think it's us. Yeah. And this is not good. So yeah, it, it was a quick interview, but chilling

3 (43m 13s):
One, how many people is this guy whacked?

4 (43m 15s):
He said, he said more than 10. He didn't say exactly how many I asked him. I also asked, started asking him personal questions about, do you have a family? 'cause he was saying he doesn't kill women or children. I asked him, but do you have kids? And do you realize like, what would it be like for your kids to live without you? Like you're doing the same to other kids. Right. He got really mad at my questions and said, don't fucking ask me emotional question or something like that. Personal questions. And this interview is over and left.

3 (43m 45s):
What was his background?

4 (43m 47s):
He said he came from a really tough family and that Yeah. Involved in drugs and guns and all of it. And he, I think, realized early on that he could do this and a lot of other people can't. And he was able to do it and he gets well paid and he does it.

3 (44m 3s):
How's one even apply to a job like

4 (44m 5s):
That? Yeah. And, and you I mean that was my fear when we started looking into this story because it's a little bit of a Hollywood myth, right? Yeah. Like, this doesn't really exist. And all those stories that you can go on the dark web and find an assassin, most of that is bullshit. So that was my fear. But I do trust this contact and, and we actually then ended up going to South Africa that has one of the highest assassination rates in the world and spent time with a bunch of different in Kabi, which are as they're called in South Africa. And that was fucking crazy as well. So we spent time with one, his name's jojo young guy. And his story is insane. And that, that he was a lot nicer, a lot more approachable, but has killed like over 30 people and, and gets paid $1,500 per hit.

4 (44m 49s):
And you know, thousands of people have died in just the past few years at the hands of assassins in, in South Africa. Wow. And a lot of it is happens in the taxi industry. Oh. So there's like 70% I think of commuters in South Africa, commute on these taxis, basically. It's like these vans and they're worth a lot of money and it's sort of a cash business. And the owners of these taxi companies are routinely being killed. So we spent time with the taxi owner who owns one of these companies, and he had a bullet for AK 47 on his head that he showed us. It was a $1 million prize for anyone who killed him. And this is a crazy guy.

4 (45m 30s):
And the, his rivals were just across the street with all their taxis. The other company that he says are trying to kill him. So he's surrounded by bodyguards with AK 47 at all time, AK 40 sevens at all time. And he was like, do you wanna go across the street with me and film me as I get close to the other guys and see what happens? It's like Sure. So we start walking towards the rivals and immediately there's a group of heavily armed men walking towards us immediately within like seconds. And this happens every day. Like people are killed every day. So yeah. And then back to the assassin,

3 (46m 4s):
And they don't have a hard time talking to you about this. I would, I would think that there's no upside to them discussing this with you, but potentially they could get caught.

4 (46m 13s):
Yeah. We go through a lot of, you know, to make sure that we protect their identities. But I think jojo, this assassin is a good example of why they talked to us. So we spent an hour and a half, more or less two hours talking to him. And he tells us a story of how he became an assassin. His parents were killed when he was young. He was about nine years old or something. He felt like he was left with no protection. He started carrying a knife and his parents were killed by an assassin by the way as well. And he, and then eventually he got involved in the drug business and then eventually people were paying him to go out, paying him much more money to go out and kill. And he says, yeah, at the beginning I had to get drugged and drunk to be able to do it, but now I'm used to it.

4 (46m 57s):
I'm cold-blooded and I'm, I'm used to it. And we started talking about the cycle of violence, right? Because he also said he doesn't kill women and children. and I asked him, but do you realize that you are traumatized from the experience that you had, that your parents were killed and now you're doing the same thing to other kids? He's like, I actually never thought of that. And then he started talking about, hey really wants to quit. And he's been thinking, but he doesn't have, he can't get a job and all of that. So I think people talk to us for a variety of reasons. I think there's a lot of boasting, a lot of people that want to just talk about what they do. Sometimes their families don't even know they do what they do. I think in places like Sinaloa where I've spent a lot of time with a cartel, it's impunity. They don't see a downside because the authorities aren't really going to do anything, even if they know who they are.

4 (47m 41s):
Wow. and I, how do you

3 (47m 43s):
Feel safe in a place like that?

4 (47m 45s):
Actually, I see, I, it's, I sometimes feel in certain countries safer Encina Lua, for example, if you are, if you've give, been given the green lights to go into the cartel, the territory controlled by the cartel to talk to cartel members. and it takes, you know, weeks, months, sometimes years to get that access. Once we're under their protection, we're under their protection. Like we have their protection to be there. But, you know, then certain things happen. Like we were filming Enc, Tino Loa once and we were filming these cicas and they had their walkie talkies and so they're communicating with the whole group and they know everybody that comes in and out of their territory.

4 (48m 29s):
And suddenly they started panicking because the marines had a helicopter were coming that their way. And the Marines in Mexico are known to shoot first and ask questions after. And they started freaking out and they basically jumped into the cars and left us. And we didn't know what to do. Should we go after them and they're gonna think we're part of the group and they can start shooting at us or should we stay behind? But we were in a open area, in a sort of forested area, should we try to hide and then we're gonna really look suspicious. So it was, it was crazy. What did you do? We got in a car and followed them and then spent the day with them doing cocaine All day. Wow. Because it wasn't safe for us to leave until the night.

3 (49m 8s):
So they just do cocaine all the time. They

4 (49m 10s):
Do a lot of cocaine. And funny story, my director of photography, Fred Manu, who was a director of photo photography for Bourdain on Parts and known before. And he, he got, we were filming the scene and we driven into the Sierra Madre mountains and then we had to walk for a mile or two to a place where they felt comfortable showing us their guns and they were gonna start shooting. And they give us the interview of what, why it was the story about the American guns flowing down south and how they're used in the violence. And he we're walking there and suddenly Fred basically turns to us and says, I don't feel good. And he had a massive case of, what is it that you call it?

4 (49m 53s):
The revenge. The

3 (49m 54s):
Oh, Montezuma. Revenge.

4 (49m 55s):
Revenge. Massive case. And so we walked to the place, Fred's on the floor, they managed to put like some sort of cloth on the floor for him. He's like, walk on the floor, can barely breathe, is like puking and going to the bathroom. And all of it is happening at the same time. And the guy is constantly offering him cocaine and telling him, dude,

3 (50m 17s):
This will fix you, my friend.

4 (50m 19s):
This, you have no idea. Do this. I am telling you Fred did not take the cocaine.

3 (50m 24s):
But would the cocaine have helped him? You thinks

4 (50m 26s):
He's he was absolutely sure the cocaine would've helped him. don don't know. What if if it did?

3 (50m 30s):
Yeah. What if that's the cure?

4 (50m 32s):
What else is in the cocaine? We don't know.

3 (50m 34s):
Oh, these guys are probably getting pure cocaine. Oh yeah,

4 (50m 37s):
I'm sure. Yeah. I

3 (50m 38s):
Mean why would they cut it?

4 (50m 39s):
And they're snorting it All day long. Oh my God. And then it wasn't, it wasn't actually a very good idea for us to stay with a them for so long. It was a learning lesson for all of us because that night we were filming with them in a bunker where they kept a lot of their guns and, and one of them had been snorting cocaine All day and basically pulled the trigger on the floor and the bullet came out just like two inches from Fred's head. 'cause he was in the bunker right in, in that hole. Oh boy. and it, yeah, it could have been really bad.

3 (51m 8s):
Oh, Jesus.

4 (51m 9s):
Yeah. So don't

3 (51m 11s):
Coked up sicarios

4 (51m 12s):
With coke, dark

3 (51m 13s):
Sicarios in Mexico. Oh my goodness.

4 (51m 15s):
Yeah.

3 (51m 16s):
And how often are those guys killing people?

4 (51m 19s):
Oh, very often. They also told us all. So they're not considered assassins per se? They're saria is They're hitman. Right. Because they're not, it's part of what they do for the cartel amongst many other things like transporting drugs and guns and all of it. But yeah, a lot of people, and he also told me the story, you have the per first person he ever killed and he was ordered to kill. and it was a friend of his, and he went to his house and knocked on the door and the guy opens the door and he shoots him. And the guy is yelling, don't kill me. Don't kill him. And shoots him right in the face.

3 (51m 47s):
Oh boy.

6 (51m 49s):
Yeah.

4 (51m 50s):
I'm

3 (51m 50s):
Terrible. That's all. What happens when you make drugs illegal? Because then the criminals are selling them. Yeah.

4 (51m 57s):
So that we can consume them. Yeah. Let's not forget.

3 (52m 0s):
Yeah. It's, it's dirty. Yeah,

4 (52m 5s):
It's dirty.

3 (52m 6s):
It's, and I don't, you know, I've had conversations with people about this, like, what is the solution in America? Because if you legalize drugs, all drugs in America and sold them. Like if pharmaceutical drug companies sold heroin, cocaine, all that,

4 (52m 22s):
I don't want the pharmaceutical companies involved in that.

3 (52m 24s):
Right. Like, who, who sells it if it's not them? You know? So either the cartel sells it or they sell it, or no one can sell it. Well, that's not gonna be the case. Someone's gonna sell it. And if you make it legal, you're gonna have more people doing it. Like, we're not accustomed to things being legal. If you made cocaine legal in this country, a bunch of people would try it that wouldn't ordinarily try it. 'cause they wouldn't know who to get it from. They wouldn't know how to do it. If you could just walk into Walgreens and buy cocaine, I guarantee you we'll have more overdoses, more addicts, more. But what is the solution to that? Is it education? Does that even work? Is it counseling? Is it drug rehabilitation centers everywhere?

3 (53m 5s):
Is it ibogaine? Like what is the, what's the solution to Yeah,

4 (53m 8s):
Don don't know. But I think looking at the example of Portugal is a good idea.

3 (53m 12s):
Yeah. But we're not Portugal. The problem is, like what we talked about, like prison guard unions. Yeah. Privatized prisons. I know the, the, the state of the mil, the, the policing in this country and the way it's done and the amount of people that are in jail in this country is so insane.

4 (53m 30s):
Yeah. Yeah. There's no easy answer. Which is why we haven't, no one has tried Yeah. To solve

3 (53m 36s):
This. And then there's this Bazar trend to let people out that have committed violent crimes in this country. It's almost like someone's engineering deter deterioration of the country and like in ensuring civil unrest.

4 (53m 51s):
So they're keeping the people that for minor crimes that shouldn't be there. Like the guy selling weed on the corner. Well,

3 (53m 57s):
They're not even keeping them anymore

4 (53m 59s):
Now.

3 (53m 59s):
No. I mean it's like Los Angeles in particular is just nuts. It's just nuts. They have these district attorneys that are funded by George Soros and they put them in, and these people, their, their mandate is to let as many people out as possible and violent crime, whatever it is, no cash bail. They're just letting people out and they're, they're letting people outta prison that are violent prisoners. It's

4 (54m 22s):
Like, and what's the idea behind that?

3 (54m 24s):
That the prison system's unjust? That's the narrative. But the end result is people are unsafe because you've already created this environment with prisons and with a lifetime of crime. These people are, they're habitualize, they're criminals, and then they're, they've committed violent crimes and then you let them right back out on the street.

4 (54m 45s):
Alright. Yeah. It's, it's wrong. I don't know enough about it, but I do think that we tend to look at the problem the other way around. I think that we tend to look at how to try to stop the problem when it's already a problem without actually tackling the root causes of what is happening and why it's happening. Right.

3 (55m 5s):
Yeah. We've talked about that many times in this podcast. Like if you wanted to solve the root cause, you would clean up in inner cities. That's what you would do. You'd take these crime ridden, drug ridden gang infested communities and you'd invest in a massive amount of money and resources into fixing and rehabilitating them. And the money that we have spent just in the Ukraine war could have done that many times over in this country. And they've not lifted a finger to stop it. It's almost like there's a formula to ensure control and power. And you need a certain amount of crime and violence. You need a certain amount of people in prison. You need a certain amount of despair in the inner cities to ensure that people don't rise up and figure out the system and realize they've been screwed over.

4 (55m 51s):
Yeah. Also talking about security helps a lot of politicians, right? Oh yeah. If they have something that they're going to do to make it better. Right. More

3 (55m 57s):
Secure. Both of those things are true. Yeah. Yeah. Prop up the problem. So, and offer you as the solution, right?

4 (56m 4s):
Yeah. But even outside of the US I mean these black markets, you know, so much of it, the lesson for me has always been when reporting on these black markets, it's all about inequality. Right? Your, your choices are only as good as the opportunities you are given 'em, right? Sure. If you don't have those opportunities, you're going to become, you know, first like a watcher for the cartel or, and then eventually climb the ladder and become a sicario.

3 (56m 31s):
A hundred percent. That's

4 (56m 32s):
The only job you have available for you.

3 (56m 33s):
Yeah. What else are you gonna do? And, and again, if you're living in the Congo and you're in the area where they're mining cobalt, what are you gonna do? Yeah.

4 (56m 40s):
You

3 (56m 40s):
Gonna start your own business. What are you gonna do? Right.

4 (56m 43s):
Whatcha do? And if your family is can't, doesn't have anything on the table to eat. Yeah. And they offer you $10, which will feed your family for a week to go and kill the chimp, you're going to go and kill the chimp.

3 (56m 55s):
Exactly. Right.

4 (56m 56s):
Yeah. That's the biggest problem. Yeah.

3 (56m 57s):
So what else did you investigate? How many episodes did you do this year?

4 (57m 1s):
Ten eight are now on Hulu. Two more are coming soon. But one of them, another one Cartel involvement is about fake pharmaceutical pills. That's really interesting. We spent time with a group called Loon in Mexico City where 80% of their job, of their money right now comes from fake pharmaceutical pills. And yeah. I mean they're making these pills. And then we went to Windy as well, which is another source of pharmaceutical pills. You have like 40,000 online pharmacies that you can go to and buy prescription drugs without a prescription. So a lot of Americans are doing that because it's much cheaper. I think it's something like 20 million Americans are using the black market for their bills, for their drugs because they can't afford them here, which is crazy.

4 (57m 44s):
20 million. 20 million. It's crazy. And people that can't afford that need these medications to survive and they can't afford them here because we have the highest drug prices in the entire world.

3 (57m 54s):
And so when you say fake, is it, it's not manufactured by, you know, Pfizer or whatever, but is it the same components?

4 (58m 4s):
It looks exactly the same, but a lot of these pills don't actually have any active ingredients. So we spend time with a guy making 20,000 pills a night out of this little, you know, back house with a, a machine, a pill, a pill, pressor. And he, it was just calcium and food dye to make it look the color, whatever color he wanted. And he was selling it as amoxicillin and you know, very likely ending up in the American homes because they ship it all around the world.

3 (58m 31s):
Wow. Yeah.

4 (58m 32s):
And, and in that case, you know, the good luck of the buyer is that it was just calcium. But in many cases it gets mixed with cement and rat poison and all sorts of things. They don't give a fuck, they don't give a fuck. And even worse is the cartel in Mexico. We found out there's a great LA Times investigation on this, and then we sort of started doing our own investigation, but they're mixing these drugs with fentanyl and meth. So I think it was something like 70% of the drugs that they bought and tested had actually had meth and fentanyl and Americans were crossing the border into Mexico to buy these drugs and then dying. Jesus. It's insane. But it's all, again, it's like easy for us to blame the cartel and other people for doing this.

4 (59m 17s):
But it's all our, our fault. It's the broken system that we have in our country. Why, why are we paying, you know, why are we, this woman that we filmed with, she was paying $700 for this medication that she needs and she couldn't afford it. Her health insurance wasn't covering it. So she would go across the border and pay $60 for it in Mexico. Of course.

3 (59m 36s):
Is any of it the real medication? Yeah.

4 (59m 38s):
Some of it is how's,

3 (59m 40s):
Is there a way to tell?

4 (59m 41s):
And they're real pharmacies, but what we,

3 (59m 43s):
So some of the real pharmacies have fake drugs.

4 (59m 45s):
So that's what's so interesting is that even pharmacies that are real, that are completely authentic and legitimate and that there's towns, there's a town that we filmed that called Algodones, for example, that's on the other side of the Arizona border that is, that has more hospitals and orthodontists and opt opticians, how do you say the doc glasses,

3 (1h 0m 6s):
Optometrists,

4 (1h 0m 6s):
Optometrists than anywhere else in the world. It's basically you, you drive around then it's like doctor's office, pharmacy, optometrist, all of it. And it's all catering to Americans. Right. And so vast numbers of Americans come every year and buy their drugs there. And they're pharmacies that are chain pharmacies that look, that could be a CVS, but in Mexico it's not a CVS, but it could be sort of brand name that you recognize in Mexico. But what we did with the cartel is we were trying to figure out how they get their medications in the, these shelves. And we filmed one cartel member, he allowed us to film. We couldn't go inside, but I had him, he had a mic, so I was able to listen to everything from the car he went, he goes into a pharmacy and basically tells the woman they're like this and the meds, look, we saw them making them, they look exactly like the real thing, the packaging, everything.

4 (1h 0m 53s):
Some of it actually comes from the legitimate places that they steal from the factories, like the packaging and all of it. But they basically tell 'em, okay, you put this on your shelves and if you don't, we're gonna burn your pharmacy. So we saw, we heard that, we saw that. And so a lot of them are forced to carry them

3 (1h 1m 10s):
And they're forced to carry fake drugs. Yeah. And do they have any idea what's in them when they're selling them? Or they just

4 (1h 1m 16s):
Don don't think they do? No, I, I doubt that they knew, for example, there was fentanyl and meth mixed in with some of their other medications. 'cause that's creates a huge problem for

3 (1h 1m 26s):
Them. And so for the consumer, how do they find the legitimate stuff?

4 (1h 1m 31s):
They don't. Which is why it's so hard. So this woman that we followed, she goes there, she buys her medication and I asked her, do you know what's in there? Oh no. But it's, my friend told me that it's a legitimate pharmacy Of course. She has no idea, right. That this is happening and that the cartel is actually threatening them to death if they don't stalk their shelves with their pharmac fake pharmaceuticals.

3 (1h 1m 49s):
Did you take any of that stuff and test it?

4 (1h 1m 51s):
We did. It's a lot more complicated than, than it seems. The LA Times again did an amazing investigation where they did test it. And again, I think it was something like seven or eight out of their 10 that they tested had fentanyl and meth, which was crazy out of two pharmacies, I think.

3 (1h 2m 7s):
And what kind of drugs are they talking about that have fentanyl and methadone?

4 (1h 2m 10s):
Oh, I can't remember. but it was, I think it was Adderall maybe. I can't remember exactly. but it was a great investigation. And yeah, in our, in our story, we sort of looked at how it ends up in the shelves and who's making it and how it's being produced. There's a, an amazing doctor in Mexico City called Dr. Loko, who we spend time with a doctor, a crazy doctor, Dr. Loko, who was a chemist himself, a doctor as well. And his father owned a pharmacy, so he sort of knew how to, and he showed us, he's making, he's putting the little silicone pouch inside and the cotton ball that goes inside and it looks exactly the same. Like no one would've been able to tell

3 (1h 2m 52s):
God. That's so scary.

4 (1h 2m 53s):
So scary.

3 (1h 2m 54s):
Yeah. Yeah. Does, is there any evidence that that happens in America?

4 (1h 2m 59s):
That it's being sold in America? Yeah, we went with a raid with the Sheriff La Sheriff's Department where we saw a sort of a grocery store in the back. They were selling these medications mo mainly to underprivileged in immigrant communities because they

3 (1h 3m 14s):
Couldn't sell stuff. But they're real stuff. Not in legitimate pharmacies.

4 (1h 3m 17s):
Not, not, not that we've known. Not yet. Not yet. Not yet. No. That we know of. No, not yet that we know of. But again, it's at the end, we went and visited a spokesperson for a group called Pharma that is a lobby group that represents the pharmaceutical companies. And yeah, I she was very happy to talk about how counterfeit medications are very damaging for America. Right?

3 (1h 3m 40s):
Yeah. Those are the real ones. Yeah.

4 (1h 3m 41s):
And that's, and that's why I asked her, but why is it that funny million Americans have to resort to a black market because they can't afford their medications here. Yeah. And that whole conversation, as you know, is fascinating.

3 (1h 3m 52s):
Yeah. What did she say about that? And

4 (1h 3m 54s):
Frustrating? Well, she says that they need the money for innovation r and d. Right. Research and development. And that's how they can get new drugs that are important for Americans. I said, that's all great, but if the Americans can't afford these medications, they're not gonna be treated by them because they can't afford them. And then I asked her, have you actually spent any time with any of these Americans that cannot afford their lifesaving medications? She said, no, that's the prob biggest problem. Right? Yeah. Yeah. But she keeps saying that without that expense, without that money, they wouldn't be able to look for all these new drugs, which is also bs because I think it's something like 34% or 35% of the money that was spent, or, or it was 35% more money spent on advertisement and, you know, trying to sell the drug than it was on actual r and d research and development.

4 (1h 4m 45s):
So, Of course. Yeah.

3 (1h 4m 47s):
Not only that to, to say that they're not profitable after all that.

4 (1h 4m 50s):
Oh, I mean those people

3 (1h 4m 51s):
Are making

4 (1h 4m 52s):
Like a hundred billion dollars the top 10 companies in the last year alone, or two years. Something ridiculous like that.

3 (1h 4m 58s):
Yeah, they make plenty. Yeah.

4 (1h 4m 59s):
Oh, it's,

3 (1h 4m 60s):
It's greed. It's,

4 (1h 5m 1s):
It's pure greed

3 (1h 5m 2s):
And it's evil. Yeah. Especially I mean, I'm sure. Have you seen the Netflix series Painkiller, Peter Berg's documentary? Yeah. I mean, that's how I found out about you through the Oxycontin Express. Yeah. I mean, I, and what year was that? That was quite a long time ago.

4 (1h 5m 16s):
That was 2008.

3 (1h 5m 18s):
When did we first talk?

4 (1h 5m 19s):
I think 2008 or oh nine.

3 (1h 5m 20s):
It had to be nine. 'cause the podcast didn't start until nine. So it might've been, so it was nine, it might've been 10. 2010.

4 (1h 5m 27s):
Oh, maybe. Maybe because

3 (1h 5m 28s):
You came to the studio. I wasn't doing it at my house anymore. No,

4 (1h 5m 31s):
You were doing it at your house. Really?

3 (1h 5m 32s):
The first time you did It was at my house. I'm quite sure. No kidding. Didn't

4 (1h 5m 35s):
You live like in Sherman Oaks or something?

3 (1h 5m 37s):
Woodland Hills. Woodland

4 (1h 5m 38s):
Hills, yeah.

3 (1h 5m 39s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 5m 39s):
I'm quite sure I went to your house.

3 (1h 5m 41s):
That's now I'm thinking. Yeah. Yeah. You were one of my first guests, I think then. Yeah, yeah, Yeah. That Oxycontin Express story was insane. and I think part of the exposure from your work led to them changing the laws because they had no database. So the way it would work, I'll explain it to people, is that there was no database. So if you got a prescription from a doctor and you went in to get Oxycontin, you could go to another doctor down the street and get another prescription. And they, they clearly had it set up like that so that there could be abuse, because that was how to maximize profits. And they have these pain management centers. and I used to see them when I would do standup in Florida, where you would go and they would, it would call, be called a pain management center.

3 (1h 6m 25s):
And it's essentially, you would go to a doctor and all the doctors there is to write a prescription for Oxycontin. And then you'd go right next door to their little pharmacy that they had on, on site. And all they had was Oxycontin. Right. And you had a a just a parking lot filled with zombies. Right. These people that were just like completely and dying, Snk out,

4 (1h 6m 45s):
Overdosing in the front steps

3 (1h 6m 48s):
Like crazy.

4 (1h 6m 49s):
So my husband did an amazing follow-up documentary, if you remember the Oxycontin Express. Do you remember that? We were investigating this one pain clinic called American Pain. And the owners were identical twins. Born identical twins. And they owned this, this pain clinic. And they followed us down I 95. 'cause they saw us filming outside their door and they followed us down 95. And, you know, we're, I'm at, I'm at the wheel and I'm seeing that the gas, we're running low on gas. So I stop at the gas station and they park right behind us. And these two guy, big guys with, you know, big muscles come out and start yelling at us. And so I take off and they follow us and keep following us.

4 (1h 7m 30s):
And at one point I run out of gas and I go to the side of the, and we're on the freeway on the I 95. And, and I had been calling contacting law enforcement, DEA that we'd been talking to. And she said, call 9 1 1 right now. I know these guys are bad news. Call 9 1 1 right now. So we called 9 1 1, told them what was happening. We were being chased on the freeway, eventually ran out of gas park on the side of the freeway, but they were so dumbfounded as to why we're parking on the side of the freeway that they just park behind us and don't get out of the car for a few minutes. And then the police shows up and then they come up with a silly story story that they thought I was a, an ex-girlfriend, stalking them. And, and then we took down their license plate and my husband started looking into them.

4 (1h 8m 12s):
They ended up in prison at federal time. Oh, part of it, they were using that the, the surveillance tapes they used was part of our conversations. They were talking about us and our investigation into them. Whoa. And the Oxycontin Express. But my husband stayed in touch, basically wrote them a letter when they were in prison and we were deciding on whether he should say, Hey, it was the guy who directed Oxycontin Express, but he didn't. And he just said, Hey, my name's Darren Foster. I'm a documentary filmmaker. I've been fascinated by your, they ran the biggest prescription pill operation in American history. Like they were the Pablo Escobar of America. Basically. They were making millions and millions of dollars out of a couple of storefronts in Florida. And, and so he contacted them and they wrote back and said, yeah, I'm, I'm interested and by the way, say hi to your wife.

4 (1h 8m 56s):
So they knew full well who he was, and he ended up doing an amazing doc. It's called American Pain. You should watch it. Wow. But it's about them, the rise and fall of these twin brothers, but also the complicity of the pharmaceutical companies. And though he, they full well knew exactly what was happening Of course and did nothing about it.

3 (1h 9m 12s):
Of course, it's a great way to maximize profits. Yeah. And the fact that they were taking these and buying them in bulk and buying 'em off all these people and then shipping them up north. Yeah. Yeah. And then you see the trail of devastation everywhere these pharmaceutical drugs went and all these communities that got hooked on the pills. And then when they changed the regulation, it made it more difficult to get, then these people started doing heroin, you know,

4 (1h 9m 35s):
And then fentanyl. Yeah. And then the exact same thing happened. We did another documentary called Death by Fentanyl, where we looked at the fentanyl and we investigated this one pharmaceutical company called Insys Pharmaceuticals and or, and insist therapeutics where they were selling sepsis, which was a, a fentanyl product. And they were doing the exact same thing that Purdue had done just, you know, a few years before where they were paying doctors for fees to basically prescribe, they were prescribing fentanyl to people with headaches and like shoulder pain. And we got a whistleblower to tell us exactly how it was happening and how they were, you know, calling because the pills or this product was really, really expensive.

4 (1h 10m 15s):
So insurance companies were paying for it. So she would call insurance companies and say, oh. And they would ask, but you know, this is only supposed to be prescribed to cancer patients. Does this patient have cancer? And they knew how to answer in a way that the person would believe they did, even though they didn't. Yeah. They were making millions of dollars. It was the only executive that has ever gone to trial and been found guilty.

3 (1h 10m 37s):
God.

4 (1h 10m 38s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, it's sick.

3 (1h 10m 41s):
Are those two twins still in jail?

4 (1h 10m 44s):
No, one of them still is. The other one left. And my husband Darren was there.

3 (1h 10m 48s):
Him, how did one get out?

4 (1h 10m 50s):
They had different sentences and I think the other one is still in federal prison, but it's George, Jeff and Chris. George. George the last name. And yeah, Darren was there, filmed him the day he came out.

3 (1h 11m 4s):
What's he doing now?

4 (1h 11m 6s):
They're involved in other businesses. They were involved in real estate before with their father. And then they started a, I think it was, was a steroids. They were selling growth hormone. And then they realized, wait a second, we can be selling Oxycontin and making a lot more money from this. Mm. And literally they had like stash of cash hidden in their mother's basement. It was millions of dollars. It was insane how much money they were making. Yeah. It's a good, it's a good, it's a good doc. I mean, it really shows you like the

3 (1h 11m 37s):
Simplicity. Do, how much do you worry about your safety uncovering all these things?

4 (1h 11m 43s):
Sometimes a little bit. Funnily enough, I worry more when we're going after people in high positions of power than I do after, you know, months of trying to get access to the cartel, for example. And when they say yes, where it's a yes, it's a yes, but in some situations, yeah, I mean we've, I've gotten lots of hate emails and the guy that owned that insists Therapeutics, for example, threatened to sue us when he saw, 'cause we compared him to El Chappo and said basically he saw an opportunity in fentanyl, just like El Chappo from the Sinaloa cartel saw Yeah. An opportunity in selling fentanyl and how they were sort of the same in different

3 (1h 12m 27s):
Parts. And they threatened to sue you for that, for the truth. Oh

4 (1h 12m 29s):
Yeah. Yeah. He didn't like the fact that we were comparing him to a chap.

3 (1h 12m 33s):
How can you sue someone for that? It seems like that's a

4 (1h 12m 35s):
Yeah, he didn't, he didn't go far. Nothing happened. Yeah.

3 (1h 12m 39s):
Get that in front of a jury. Yeah,

4 (1h 12m 40s):
Yeah, exactly. Sorry, don don't like the comparison. Yeah, yeah.

3 (1h 12m 43s):
Well,

4 (1h 12m 44s):
Well he didn't like to to be called a drug dealer, but guess what? Oh, how weird. That's exactly what he was.

3 (1h 12m 48s):
You're dealing drugs and You don't like being called a drug dealer. Maybe stop dealing drugs. Yeah. What, what do you think is the most dangerous thing that you've ever investigated? Hmm. I've, I was terrified for you when you were in the cocaine laboratories that to me I know you were there. You were right here telling me about it. But I was like, oh my God, she's gonna die. Like when I watched that

4 (1h 13m 10s):
When you were

3 (1h 13m 10s):
Watching, even though I knew that you were Okay. Yeah. I was just like, this is so insane that you did that and that you went through the jungle with the people that were carting out the cocaine. Like you could have easily gotten killed.

4 (1h 13m 25s):
Yeah. Yeah. I mean there's a lot of situations like that on the show. Like almost every episode there's a crazy situation where we find

3 (1h 13m 32s):
Are are you are addicted to the

4 (1h 13m 33s):
No, not at all. Drill. I don't do it at all. People think I adrenaline junkie. Not at all. don, don't do it for the adrenaline. I, I really, I'm very curious. I think as a journalist, if you tell you there's a part of the world that you could never see, that's exactly where you want to go. I also find these black markets fascinating. That's like something like half of the world's economy are these black and gray markets. And yet we know

3 (1h 13m 56s):
Half of the world's economy, black and gray markets are markets. Yeah.

4 (1h 13m 60s):
Half, almost half I mean L less. Oh my. It's God. It's like these black and gray markets and gray markets can be anything from people selling counterfeit goods or anything that's basically not le or ca like gray markets basically cash in hand. And you're not actually, you know, working in an office. But, so yeah. So it's a lot. And no one knows anything about these worlds. And I'm fascinated not by the pointing of the thing of these guys are the bad guys and we're spending time with the bad guys, but more about what is the motivation and why, how is the system broken that got us to this place? Because again, it's trying to figure out the root cause instead of the enforcement side of it.

3 (1h 14m 38s):
Yeah. I did not know it was that much.

4 (1h 14m 40s):
Yeah, it is crazy. and I think this is the only show that is devoted only to black markets out there.

3 (1h 14m 46s):
Yeah. But one of the other things you did that was terrifying was, and just terrifying to know this, was that Los Angeles police were confiscating weapons and then selling them to the cartels in Mexico and that you could just go to Mexico easy. It's easy to go straight across the border into Mexico. So you can go to Mexico with a trunk full of weapons and no one stops you.

4 (1h 15m 10s):
No, there's no control whatsoever going south. Only coming north. There's no, which is wild. Which is wild I know. Yeah. And guess what? These are the same guns that are being used to create the violence that create the reason why many people want to leave Mexico and come to the United States. Yeah. Sort of a cycle, right?

3 (1h 15m 29s):
God.

4 (1h 15m 30s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 15m 32s):
Do you think you'll ever run outta topics?

4 (1h 15m 34s):
No. We have so many. We have such a long list that you think people think.

3 (1h 15m 38s):
Are there any that you look at and you go, that's too much, that's too heavy?

4 (1h 15m 41s):
No, not, not yet. Not yet.

3 (1h 15m 43s):
Like Taliban and Afghanistan.

4 (1h 15m 44s):
Oh yeah. Terrorism. You don't fuck with terrorism. Yeah. That's for sure. Yeah. There's, and and that's why when we went to Niger, we only went because we knew that we were going to have military convoy with us and people protecting us because we knew. But yet I mean it was months of planning because we were all Yeah, you don't,

3 (1h 16m 2s):
You still get caught in a

4 (1h 16m 3s):
Coup. And we got caught in a coup. That's the thing is like you can plan what is, there's like that Mark Mike Tyson, that, that

3 (1h 16m 11s):
Everyone has a plan to get punched in the

4 (1h 16m 12s):
Face. Yes. I love that. I love that plan because that is exactly like what happens with us. It's months and months of planning for shit that never happens. Yeah. And what happens is always the end, the the thing you didn't prepare for, we weren't ready for. Yeah. Wow. Yeah.

3 (1h 16m 28s):
What else did you cover this year?

4 (1h 16m 31s):
What else we did? We did Apes Extortion. Have you heard of Sextortion?

3 (1h 16m 35s):
Sextortion?

4 (1h 16m 35s):
Yeah. How's

3 (1h 16m 37s):
That

4 (1h 16m 37s):
Work? That one's airing tonight actually. But it's out on Hulu already. But it's, it's a horrible crime. It's a crime that's growing and it's basically you start chatting with somebody online, that person eventually asks you to send a photo of yourself, a compromising photo or a video of yourself, and they'll send you a photo or video back. And it's mainly targeting teens, which is really sad American teenagers. And then once you do send those photos or videos, the person says, well, I have all the contact information on Facebook of all your friends and your work and your parents and your school, whatever. And I'm going to send this to everyone if you don't send us money right now.

4 (1h 17m 18s):
And that really sad part of that is that we spent time with parents whose kids committed suicide. And within the span of like a couple of days, so they started chatting online. There was this kid called Jake in Utah, so sad, started con was contacted by what looked like a beautiful girl on a Sunday night. By Thursday or Friday he committed suicide because he was too embarrassed that those, his friends and his family would see those photos. Oh God. It is horrible. But amazingly, he left behind a letter for his mother and instructions on how to access his phone so she could see what had happened to him and also who he had sent money to in the hopes that she would be able to investigate or send people to investigate.

4 (1h 18m 6s):
And the American authorities did. They found that the people that he was sending money to were in the Philippines, but that was it. Like there was nothing else they could do because it was a foreign country. And so we sat out to the Philippines and tried to figure out who it was behind this, this scam. And we found the whole community of people involved in this scam and scamming millions out of Americans.

3 (1h 18m 27s):
And did they just use stock photos of girls

4 (1h 18m 30s):
Or Yeah. Stock photos of girls. A lot of them, interestingly enough, are actually trans people in the trans community. We spoke to a drag queen, for example, who was scamming a lot of people. And, and during COVI, what happened is that they, they're, they usually do drag queen contests. They make money that, that way or work, work at clubs or, and a lot of them lost their jobs during COVID and they had no government assistance. And so they found a way to make some money this way by sex extorting Americans. Yeah. Wow. And that was, that was super a crazy journey too. Just one of the scenes we filmed was we spent time in a prison with a guy that was in prison for extorting Filipino women.

4 (1h 19m 19s):
And it was sort of the beginning of our investigation. We were trying to figure out if he was connected to anyone else thinking he was like sort of small fish just extorting people in the Philippines. And then by talking to him, he basically admits on camera while talking to me. But actually I've done this to many, many Americans. And one of them, and I asked him, do you know anyone who's committed suicide? Because it's a huge problem in the us. He was like, yes. There was one man who was married, he was an engineer, I believe, and he committed suicide after we extorted him. and I said, how do you know? He says, because this camera laptop was on, and we could see it. And I was like, wait, did you not try to stop him? I was like, no, because we heard people saying that they were going to commit suicide, but they never did.

4 (1h 20m 1s):
So we thought he was bluffing and then we saw him as he dies on camera. Jesus I know, I'm sorry. This is, this is the most depressing podcast you've

3 (1h 20m 12s):
Ever done this? No, it's not unfortunately, but it's horrifying. It's just horrifying. The cruelty that people are capable of that they would do to strangers just for money. Yeah. And especially for young kids to take some teenager, some easily manipulated Oh, it's so sad. Young kid. Yeah. And trick them into doing something. Yeah.

4 (1h 20m 34s):
Or the desperation also that leads to

3 (1h 20m 37s):
It. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Right. Like why that's your only option Yeah. To do that. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 20m 45s):
Right. Yeah. That was a, that was a heavy one. Yeah. But,

3 (1h 20m 52s):
But I mean, sextortion is essentially the whole theme behind this whole Jeffrey Epstein thing. That was just a, a massive intelligence operation to compromise very wealthy and powerful people. And to I mean, probably influence all sorts of things. If you have a bunch of information on someone, videotapes of someone,

4 (1h 21m 14s):
You think that's what he was doing? A hundred percent. That he was filming powerful people Yes. Having sex with girls and then

3 (1h 21m 21s):
Probably underage girls.

4 (1h 21m 22s):
Really? Yeah. and I is there this out, this public information. This

3 (1h 21m 26s):
Is what the whole Jeffrey Epstein thing is about. Yeah. You didn't know that

4 (1h 21m 29s):
I mean I knew that he was flying people powerful island onto an island to an island where there was, but I didn't know that he was filming without their knowledge. Yeah.

3 (1h 21m 36s):
Yeah. That's, that's the story. The story was that the whole thing was an intelligence operation and that what they were doing was compromising these people. You get them to go there, a bunch of celebrities are gonna be there. A bunch of wealthy people are gonna be there. A bunch of famous scientists are gonna be there. Everyone's having a wonderful time. And you figure like, oh look, all these Nobel Prize winning scientists and Nobel laureates and, and, and actors and singers, all these people are gonna be there. This sounds like a great place to be. You know, this guy, he gets endorsed by all these other people. Oh, Jeffrey Epstein's this wonderful billionaire philanthropist. And he's just very eccentric and he loves to have these incredible parties and all the most interesting people. And then you go there and next thing you know, you're doing drugs and you lose your little inhibitions.

3 (1h 22m 21s):
And there's a bunch of lovely young ladies, you don't know how old they are, and they take you into a room and film you. And now he's got the goods on you.

4 (1h 22m 28s):
And, wait, this lasted so long. Why do, do you think people would've talked about it to each other? Like say, don't go to that island. 'cause this guy is

3 (1h 22m 36s):
I think the opposite. I think once they have information on you, they get you to talk to other people. We'd like to meet this guy. Ah, why don't you bring him, come get him to come hang out with us. And then now you got that guy and say, maybe you've got some guy who's on a television show and you know, a news channel and he's talking, and then you've got some guy who's a scientist and he's talking to other people, and then they're all going to this island. And you go there and you're like, look, bill Clinton's here. This has gotta be fine to be here. There's like all these incredible, powerful people here. Oh, I found a place where they all get together and, and you know, where they can be protected. And so you feel safe, right? Yeah. And then they have, you

4 (1h 23m 14s):
Wasn't, there wasn't everybody expecting some big names to come out of the documents that were just, but there wasn't really, they still

3 (1h 23m 20s):
Haven't released all of them. and I, what I understand is the list is only one victim's encounters with people and she's relaying the list of the people. So, but, but there's one, the list of people

4 (1h 23m 32s):
That were at

3 (1h 23m 33s):
The office that she interacted with and that she knows of, and that she either had sex with or knows people that had sex with and that knows that they were all filmed.

4 (1h 23m 42s):
Right. And do you also think that he was killed?

3 (1h 23m 46s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 23m 47s):
That he didn't commit to the suicide.

3 (1h 23m 48s):
Suicide? A hundred percent. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 23m 50s):
A lot of people do.

3 (1h 23m 50s):
Yeah. Well, Michael Badden, the famous forensic doctor that was in that HBO series autopsy, did you ever see that show? It's a fascinating show that was on a while back, that it was basically how this guy, Michael Badden, who's this brilliant forensic specialist, would examine these bodies and find evidence of them being murdered when, you know, they'd said they'd fell down a flight of stairs or this or that. When he examined Jeffrey Epstein's neck, he said that the injuries were indicative of someone being strangled instead of ligature, strangulation not hanging. Right. And that it was at the base of his neck, which is not where you get strangled if you, you hang yourself, if you hang yourself, oh, your weight goes up here and he gets strangled up like near where your jawline is.

3 (1h 24m 40s):
But this was down at the base of his neck indicating like someone strangled him from behind and his bones in his neck were fractured, which is also indicative of someone who's strangled to death, not not being hung.

4 (1h 24m 53s):
And why was it this made public or was it Well,

3 (1h 24m 56s):
His, his findings were made public. This is without doubt a bunch of incredibly powerful people who are using their influence to make sure that this information doesn't get out or that the impact of this information getting out is very minimal and that it just gets swept under the rug. And every time more information comes out, there's a brief little burst of outrage. But no one goes to jail. No one gets caught. Ghislaine Maxwell is in jail for sex trafficking. Right. But to who? To who. Like you have to sex traffick to someone to be arrested for sex trafficking. And when there's no one that's being listed as the people that you sex Trafficked.

3 (1h 25m 38s):
But the implication is that these people who you're sex trafficking to are the most powerful people in the world. That these powerful influential people are the ones that were the ones that were using this. The ones that were there, the ones that were victimized by the scheme, or I don't wanna say victimized. They, they were caught by the scheme. None of them are arrested. None of them are going to jail. But

4 (1h 26m 3s):
Wasn't she trafficking girls for Jeffrey Epstein? Wasn't that whole

3 (1h 26m 6s):
Thing. She was trafficking girls for Jeffrey Epstein. But to who? To who? To

4 (1h 26m 11s):
Him. No. Wasn't she? Yeah. But where recruiting girls to come

3 (1h 26m 14s):
And have sex. But to who were the men? Who were the men? Oh. Because

4 (1h 26m 17s):
If it's not just Jeffrey, it

3 (1h 26m 19s):
Has, it's not like Jeffrey Epstein is having sex with all of them. Right. It was a bunch of other people. So who are those people? And how come there's zero effort in the media to uncover this?

4 (1h 26m 32s):
Yeah. I don't

3 (1h 26m 32s):
Know. It's kind of insane. It

4 (1h 26m 33s):
Is insane.

3 (1h 26m 34s):
It's, it's really insane. And these,

4 (1h 26m 37s):
But there was a doc done about it, a documentary done right?

3 (1h 26m 39s):
I believe so. Yeah.

4 (1h 26m 40s):
I remember seeing it.

3 (1h 26m 42s):
Yeah. but it, but it just goes in and out of the news. Right. The news cycle today is so weird. Right. It's like something comes in and comes out. It's gone. Right. It's very Bazar. It's very, very,

4 (1h 26m 53s):
Very, very Bazar. The findings of this expert didn't make it to the final report on

3 (1h 26m 59s):
We got here. No, this was post the, the look. There was an official autopsy, right. Said he hung himself and then they brought in the family, brought in Dr. Michael Badden to examine it. I think it was Jeffrey Epstein's brother brought him in. I forget, I forget who brought him in. But Dr. Michael Badden goes in there and he is like, no, this guy was killed.

4 (1h 27m 16s):
And nothing changed in the official report. They didn't change it, or No,

3 (1h 27m 20s):
Why would they do that? Take a second. I mean everything about it is so crazy. First of all the cameras didn't work. How convenient. Right. How convenient. Right. And this guy is not being watched 24 hours a day. He's one of the most important witnesses.

4 (1h 27m 33s):
And he, the, the, the person. Wasn't there something about the person supposed to be watching him had just gone to the bathroom or something ridiculous

3 (1h 27m 39s):
Like that? They were asleep or something. Yeah. don don't, I don't know what happened, but those people kind of shut the fuck up and then that it just, just gets swept away. That's

4 (1h 27m 48s):
Insane.

3 (1h 27m 48s):
Yeah. But the, the idea is that he was either, you know, intelligence agency from America or Mossad. And that this was a long-term tactic to control people and to get influence over them. I mean you take these men, right? And most of these men that are in these positions of power, these politicians and heads of enormous corporations and I mean, look, the guy who's the CEO of Victoria Secrets donated a $60 million house to him in Manhattan. And there was another guy who was a big CEO who wound up giving him over a hundred million dollars. There was a bunch of people that gave him sizable chunks of money

4 (1h 28m 31s):
Out of the kindness of their heart.

3 (1h 28m 32s):
Yeah. And you know, some of 'em had to step down from their corporations 'cause there was insinuation, they were attached to him. Like, what happened? But no one's in jail. No one went to jail for it.

4 (1h 28m 41s):
That's so crazy. Yeah. It's, it's high level extortion. Yeah. If that's the case.

3 (1h 28m 46s):
But I think that's what they've always done. Look, if I was an intelligence agent, and if I was the head of an intelligence agency, I was like, well, how do you manipulate people? Do you get all these powerful people? How do we get them under our control? Like that is one of the best ways, especially if you can get loose in their inhibitions, get 'em drunk, give 'em coke, and then, you know, all of a sudden some beautiful girls giving them a back massage and you know, you're told it's fine. Don't worry about it. Don't worry. Have a good time on the island. You're my guest. Okay. And then you're in some room and there's, you know, cameras everywhere. You don realize it and then they go, we have to talk.

4 (1h 29m 18s):
That is so much,

3 (1h 29m 19s):
I'll show you something. This doesn't have to get out, but you know, we need something from you. Yeah.

4 (1h 29m 23s):
Yeah. It is, it is crazy that it's not a bigger thing. Right. It's

3 (1h 29m 26s):
Crazy. Yeah. It's crazy. It's also crazy that that is probably going on right now somewhere else. There's probably another version of that happening, whether it's in other countries or with other, other sort of similar situations. Look, intelligence agencies have always infiltrated shady groups and for a good reason. You know, I mean, like, this is my argument about what people are saying. You know, all these, all these feds and instigated January 6th. I'm sure they did. But also you would want like legitimate good intelligence agents on the ground January 6th, just so that things don't go south so that you know what the fuck is happening. If you've got a bunch of people that are like some crazy militia group and they're planning on detonating a nuclear bomb in the capitol, the only way to find out is to have people on the ground.

3 (1h 30m 11s):
Right. But what happens is those people then have a vested interest in getting people to do things so that they can arrest him. Which is like the Governor Whitmer case where the 14 people that kidnapped gov or were planning to kidnap governor, 12 of them were FBI informants and two of them were FBI agents. The one who was the fake demolition expert was gonna blow up the bridge. And the other one who's the getaway driver, they're federal agents. Like they, it's all fake. The whole thing was fake. There was two dummies. They were like, what are we doing? And those guys were the ones who wound up gonna jail.

4 (1h 30m 45s):
Wait, do you think that they weren't actually planning, it

3 (1h 30m 48s):
Wasn't their idea. They were just dopes, they were just dope together. They

4 (1h 30m 51s):
Were convinced by somebody. Yeah. Who

3 (1h 30m 53s):
Was, they got roped into this thing and the next thing you know, they're, they're being talked into some crazy plan where they're, you know, kidnapping the governor and the guys who are doing, they're like, we never thought it was really gonna happen. Like they were just losers who all of a sudden they're a part of like some crazy rebellious organization that's supposed to do something that's gonna, you know, we're gonna stand up for against tyranny and we're gonna arrest that bitch. And the what they were really doing was being tricked by federal informants.

4 (1h 31m 23s):
I don't know enough about that case, but I would say the only thing I would say is that there is some responsibility on the I mean they can be dummies, but that's not self-defense for not true being found guilty of doing, committing a crime. That's

3 (1h 31m 34s):
If they actually fin. But also there's a sizable percent of this population that has an IQ lower than 85. It's pretty big.

4 (1h 31m 42s):
All of which

3 (1h 31m 43s):
Vote. I think it's what is the number, what's the number of people I know, we've looked this up before, but it's pretty confusing. Like the number of people that are under 85 IQ is pretty high. And if you can get one of them and tell 'em that you're gonna kidnap the, the governor and next thing you know, okay, you have nothing going on in your life. Your life is meaningless and all of a sudden it's exciting and you think you're a part of a good group. Like this is this, we're doing the right thing. 'cause you're fucking dumb. You have an 85 iq. Right. You, you're incapable of seeing big pictures. You're, you have a nine volt brain, you know, and there's a lot of people out there like that a lot.

3 (1h 32m 23s):
And that's the problem with, you know, incentivizing people to arrest people. Like, well, you gotta get 'em to do something to arrest 'em. Right.

4 (1h 32m 31s):
Didn, the same thing happened right after nine 11. Right. All these people were contacted by undercover agents who pretended and, and then to be

3 (1h 32m 41s):
Jihadists.

4 (1h 32m 41s):
Yeah, yeah. And, and said, let's join our plot to bomb da da. And all these people said yes, but it wasn't their plan. and it was an,

3 (1h 32m 47s):
There's a famous story in Dallas, there was a 19-year-old kid who was, again, not very smart, and they convinced him, they radicalized him and convinced him, they gave him a bomb and gave him a cell phone to detonate the bomb and then arrested him. Right. There was no real bomb cell phone. Didn't do shit. It didn't really activate the bomb. But that guy's in jail. Right. And they talked him into the whole thing. They provided him with the materials. Right. They gave him the plan. I

4 (1h 33m 11s):
Do wonder, is there something that we don't know? Is it possible that the, is it I mean what led them to that kid? Or to those people that were wanting to kidnap the governor? Like is it, is there, were there any pre-planning? Maybe they knew that they were doing something and in order to catch them they had to sort of give them a little bit of fuel or

3 (1h 33m 28s):
Yeah, they were probably radical. They were probably online talking a lot of shit. And then someone contacted them and, you know, took it to the next level. You know. But there's a lot of people that say things, they talk shit online. There's a lot of death to America people out there that don't actually do anything. Right. You know,

4 (1h 33m 44s):
It is, it is a difficult, I have to say I mean, I'm, I'm playing the devil's advocate here. But if you're a law enforcement and you're constantly Right. Being accused of showing up after the crime happens. If you're trying to prevent crime True. Then that's what you do. You're monitoring check groups Yep. And trying to figure out how you can stop this

3 (1h 33m 59s):
From

4 (1h 33m 60s):
Happening in the

3 (1h 34m 0s):
Future. And they Absolutely. and I fully support that. Right. The problem is law enforcement agents are just like everything else, just like plumbers or mechanics. Some of them are really good and some of 'em are fucking terrible Of course. And some of 'em are corrupt and some of 'em are jaded. Yeah. And at the end of the day, all they give a shit about is catching people and they have a career and their career is all about catching people. And so if you can trick people and doing something and then catch 'em, that counts as a catch. Right. You know? And so if there's not enough going on Yeah. I mean you're absolutely. You make something happen. Yeah. Trying to climb the ladder over here. Mariana, I don time for fucking I know ethics and morals and these little absolute finer details.

3 (1h 34m 42s):
This is all bullshit. I'm trying to arrest people. Yeah.

4 (1h 34m 45s):
They are like everybody else. But they should be held to a higher standard.

3 (1h 34m 48s):
Yes, they should. That's the problem. Should, but you know, it's like all their businesses, it's just like the pharmaceutical drug business. Like we need pharmaceutical drugs. They help people, they save lives. Of course they enhance people's life that they're, I'm, I fully support the, the creation of pharmaceutical drugs for the most part. But the problem is you have the people that create 'em, which are these scientists that are working and doing these studies and tasks to try to figure out drugs that, that are beneficial and help people. And then you get the money people and the money people are not scientists. They're just like, how can I make more? Right. You know, it's like the story of the Sackler family. How can I make more? Absolutely.

4 (1h 35m 25s):
Yeah. Yeah's, profit, profit, profit. That's all.

3 (1h 35m 27s):
Let's, let's twist this narrative right into like, this is what you're gonna take and it's gonna make you better. Right. And you're gonna keep taking it forever.

4 (1h 35m 35s):
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. It's, it's an interesting conversation. Right. I don't want to get into politics at all, but there is, it's an interesting conversation about how much do we want the, the government to regulate more or less, right? Right. It's all about regulation. And so many of these, and for my investigations, a lot of what happens actually happens because of lack of regulation. We did an episode on body parts, not organs, but this time it was actually body parts. So most people think that when you die, you have a say in what happens to your body. Right. You can be cremated, you can be buried or you donated to science. But actually the, the US is pretty much the wild west of the body parts business.

4 (1h 36m 17s):
And there's people who are selling, chopping up your body and selling them on the back from your, the back door without any of your knowledge. Which is crazy. And a lot of it is legal. A lot of it is illegal and it's being done and people are being caught. There was a mother and daughter, mother and daughter in Colorado who ran, who had a funeral home and they also had a donation center on the side. And they had, they had people come in and say they wanted their loved ones to be cremated and instead of cremating them, they were again chopping up body parts and selling them to donations, to biogenetics and center scientific centers around the world. And they were caught, but they were actually not charged for chopping up bodies.

4 (1h 36m 58s):
They were charged for fraud because it is very complicated and there aren't enough laws in this country that regulates what happens to your body after you die.

3 (1h 37m 7s):
I had heard of this story where this one family, their grandmother died and they found out that she was used as like a crash test dummy. Yeah.

4 (1h 37m 15s):
But, and they had no idea that that was gonna happen. But they had donated her body for science. Yeah.

3 (1h 37m 19s):
Yeah. That is science, right?

4 (1h 37m 21s):
It is. And you know, having surgeons operate on your hip, right. Practicing with a hip. Yeah. All of that is science. But that's better I think because at least you're aware that you donated the body In these cases they thought they'd received ashes that contained their loved ones and instead there was like batteries, burnt batteries and other bodies mixed in. Oh god. People would go, this is such a crazy story. People would go into this funeral home and as they're signing the paperwork for the cremation, they would hear a chainsaw in the back.

3 (1h 37m 52s):
Oh

4 (1h 37m 53s):
God. For real. and it was the mother whose job it was to cut up the body

3 (1h 37m 57s):
Parts. Oh my God. With a chainsaw. Yes. Like a welder's goggle on like

4 (1h 38m 2s):
People. Exactly. And complain that, and they would say that they were building something in the back, but this lasted like months or years. And there's like constantly building something in the back. Oh my

3 (1h 38m 12s):
God. You're racking up bodies

4 (1h 38m 14s):
Fucking up bodies. Isn't it crazy? Holy shit. It's so insane. But that all happens a lot of this of the for-profit, body trade because of lack of regulations. Oh my God. And there's not enough, there are not enough laws out there. We're the wild west. Every other country has these laws and we don't because it's all about money. How can we make money out of people's donating people's, you know,

3 (1h 38m 36s):
Wanting to donate? How much money is involved in donating bodies?

4 (1h 38m 38s):
Oh, a lot. We heard of skulls being sold for 5,000 bucks. So, oh, we met with a funeral director that brought us a, a pen like this and inside the pen there was a little human skull. And he told us all about how it works. Like how they were selling again, instead of cremating the bodies, they were selling their parts, there was a skin wallet being sold online for $2,500. A tongue can go for a thousand dollars.

3 (1h 39m 5s):
A human tongue.

4 (1h 39m 6s):
A human tongue. This is part of the oddities market where people like to have human parts, body

3 (1h 39m 11s):
Parts, also like have it in formaldehyde on their mantle piece or something. Oh

4 (1h 39m 14s):
My god. And make wallets out of skin. Tattooed skin goes for more money. She's Christ

3 (1h 39m 19s):
Wallets outta skin. Really? Yeah. You could buy those in America.

4 (1h 39m 23s):
You can buy them online, you can find them. Oh, they're groups. That's

3 (1h 39m 25s):
God, why do I wanna look right now? I mean I'm looking

5 (1h 39m 28s):
At a story before you even said it, I saw, so now I'm seeing the context on the video I have, I'm not even listening to the words, but this Harvard Mor manager. Yeah,

4 (1h 39m 38s):
That's yeah, that's true. That was the

5 (1h 39m 40s):
Case. And they're showing these oddities.

3 (1h 39m 41s):
What is that? Is that a real body look?

5 (1h 39m 44s):
Cat's, creepy

4 (1h 39m 45s):
Creations? No, I don't think so. No, I I mean I think the skulls are definitely real, but a lot of it is like mixed with other things. Okay. But it's interesting. So the, the Facebook groups that we got access to were sort of secret. That's one of the guys we tried researching out to the guy with the Yes.

3 (1h 40m 1s):
Allegedly trafficking stolen human remains.

4 (1h 40m 6s):
Yep. Ugh. And that's the Harvard Medical School. The person working at the morgue was selling body, was selling some of their body parts and pre procuring also buying from that other guy. Yeah. It's,

3 (1h 40m 19s):
People are so creepy,

4 (1h 40m 20s):
So strange. Like how, and so these groups, you would see the tongues and wombs. There was one that had a uterus in a aldehyde and they're being sold. But it's these secretive groups that you need somebody who's been accepted into the group. But we saw all the listings. And

3 (1h 40m 35s):
Have you ever looked into the body's exhibit?

4 (1h 40m 38s):
So that was made, so that was made with like prisoners from China I heard,

3 (1h 40m 43s):
Right? Yeah. Yeah. If you google the definition or like, or the explanation of where the bodies come from, it's Chinese unclaimed bodies, which may include political prisoners. That's what it says.

4 (1h 40m 56s):
It actually says that, which may include political prisoners.

3 (1h 40m 59s):
Right. But here's the problem. The, the process that they use to turn people into statues for the exhibit, it's called Plaster Nation. You must do it within 48 hours of death. Oh wow. But a Chinese unclaimed bodies only unclaimed when it's been sitting there for 30 days.

4 (1h 41m 15s):
Wow.

3 (1h 41m 15s):
So that means all those people got murdered. Oh my God. Not only that, one of the wildest stories was there was a mayor in a city in China that was having an affair with a local television anchor. The wife found out about it, the woman went missing. Her name was scrubbed off the internet. Months later, a new exhibit was in the body's exhibit of a pregnant woman who's exactly the same size and exactly the same amount. Pregnant. That was when she went, lady when she went missing. She was eight months pregnant when she went missing. And the woman who was the wife who was married to the mayor who's having the affair, was the manager of the plaster nation factory.

3 (1h 42m 0s):
So she killed the lady that her husband was having an affair with, allegedly. And then turn that lady and her eight month old fetus into a fucking statue. Which is still on display.

4 (1h 42m 13s):
No, it is not. Yes it is. It's part of that exhibition.

3 (1h 42m 15s):
Yes. It's part of that exhibition. And they've resisted all attempts to do DNA tests.

4 (1h 42m 20s):
No way.

3 (1h 42m 21s):
And the woman is essentially scrubbed for the internet. The woman that was murdered, you can't find her. But the woman who was the wife who was accused of murdering the pregnant lady, also got arrested for murdering an English businessman after that. So she poisoned this English businessman and then was tried, but in her place, in the trial was another woman. So she hired someone. She probably went to some poor family. Oh my God. Got their daughter and paid them. We'll give you X amount of money. Your daughter's gonna stay in trial for me.

4 (1h 42m 56s):
Like your buddy double

3 (1h 42m 57s):
Pretended it's me. Didn't look at anything like her. But this woman's on the stand. She says she did it. That lady went to jail. No way.

4 (1h 43m 2s):
A hundred percent. How do you know all this?

3 (1h 43m 4s):
'cause I went, I did a deep dive in it. That is insane. I have a bit in my act about the body's exhibit.

4 (1h 43m 9s):
Wow.

3 (1h 43m 10s):
It's fucking crazy. Crazy. Because there's a shit load of these exhibits, right? Oh, there's a permanent one at the Luxor in Las Vegas that is almost definitely filled with murdered people.

4 (1h 43m 19s):
That is so, and people pay money to go and look at these bodies.

3 (1h 43m 22s):
It's science. Oh, right. It's science. You go there, it's science. Look, it's science. Yeah.

4 (1h 43m 28s):
Yeah. The ation is interesting 'cause that's what these family members thought was happening to their loved one's bodies. and it, they, they cut them up. Right? It's cut into

3 (1h 43m 35s):
Little, there, there's a lot of versions of it. Right. There's some where the muscles are completely stripped off the body and they're hovering above the body. So you have like the, the, the frame of the bones. And then you see all the individual muscles that are removed and like elevated. And then you have other ones where the arm is sectioned into pieces. So a an arm is stretched out like 10 feet long and it's like sections of it they leave their genitals on, which is very strange. Like that one. Look at that one. Oh yeah. The person sectioned I mean this is like serial killer freak shit. Oh my God. And if you see like what they do, they, they remove all of the blood vessels and they have them on display.

3 (1h 44m 15s):
There's also like these Bazar erotic ones where they have people having sex. It's like super serial killer vibes that you get from this. Like, look how this person split down the middle. The heart is in the center, the head is on both sides. Holy shit. It's complete macabre serial killer. Look at that one down there. Those are the people having sex. So there's there, there's people having sex including like penises inserted into vaginas breast tissue still on. So that it's indicative of a woman that you know that it's a woman. There's people wrestling, there's people playing basketball, people having sex over there. Yeah. It's very fucking strange.

4 (1h 44m 50s):
Oh, I've never been to one of these I. mean I've heard all about them, but I didn't know there were people having sex. And

3 (1h 44m 55s):
Yeah, I've been to it three times. The reason why I looked into it is 'cause my daughter asked me Where'd they get the bodies from?

4 (1h 44m 60s):
Huh? Is that how it all started for you? Yeah.

3 (1h 45m 2s):
My, my daughter was 10. She was like, where do they get these bodies? Huh? And I was like, my first thought was, why didn't I ask that question? Yeah, yeah. Exactly. and I started doing a deep dive. I believe they pulled it from Australia because of concern. Is that what it says? That's, yeah. I think they pulled the exhibit from Australia. Yeah. Called to shut real bodies exhibition over fears that uses executed prisoners. Organizers, a Sydney exhibit, deny human rights groups claims. The bodies are from Chinese political prisoners. Yeah. I'm sure you'd deny it. But there's bullet holes in some of them.

4 (1h 45m 31s):
So if they're not, who are they from? Like, have the people that organized this or came up with this idea said who they come

3 (1h 45m 36s):
From? Well, they've done investigative journalist reports on this. Right. And one of the things they did is they went to one of the place nation factories. And you see on the ground, they have bodies laid out with, with pillow covers over their heads with blood on them. Right. So these people are tied up. Right. They're executed. There's a bullet hole in their head and they're all laid out. And then the factory's right there. So they're taking these people, 'cause they have to do this within 48 hours of death. Right. They take them, they skin them, they put 'em in this, this fluid. I don't, I don't know exactly what the process is, but essentially they, they use this process to stop the body from decaying.

4 (1h 46m 11s):
And they're selling them. They're making money out of it. Oh yeah. Of

3 (1h 46m 13s):
Course. Yeah. They sell them. And then also they, these exhibits generate a lot of money because they're fascinating. When I went in Los Angeles, there's a giant line. Just look at this. They, they keep their penis on. This guy's holding his skin to the right is fucking crazy. That is so, it's so insane. It's so insane that that is science. Oh, like that. That's a guy that was executed and they turned him into a statue. Oh my God. Yeah.

4 (1h 46m 35s):
And now people go and pay to

3 (1h 46m 37s):
How many of the, look at that. There's a bunch of these. So the look at it, he's got his penis still on, but he is holding his skin. It's fucking creepy. Oh my God. And how many of them are there worldwide? I think there's a ton of them.

4 (1h 46m 50s):
Really? So hundreds and hundreds.

3 (1h 46m 52s):
Thousands of these bodies. There's different cities. Yeah. Bunch of different cities. Probably thousands of bodies.

4 (1h 46m 58s):
I've never been to one that is, yeah.

3 (1h 46m 60s):
Well if you're in Vegas, go to the Luxor before they pull it before people realize it's a fucking murder exhibit. It's a Chinese murder exhibit.

4 (1h 47m 8s):
Do you think they're gonna realize and no, shut it down.

3 (1h 47m 11s):
No, they haven't fucking arrested anybody for Jeffrey. Jeffrey Epstein's Island. They're not gonna arrest anybody for

4 (1h 47m 15s):
This. These are prisoners. They're already

3 (1h 47m 17s):
Dead. Whatcha gonna do? We're trying to make money over here. Shut the fuck up. Exactly.

4 (1h 47m 19s):
Go. Go to Buffet. This has been on for what, 15 years or more, right?

3 (1h 47m 21s):
Forever. Forever. I don't remember the first time I went to one, but it was in the two thousands. I remember it came to Los Angeles and me and my buddies went. We were like, what the fuck? And we were really high. So we're really high walking around this exhibit of all these dead people. Like this is fucking twisted. 'cause it doesn't, it's not just the anatomy. It'd be one thing if it was these bodies and they remove the skin and you see all of the muscle inside doing all the different, it's fascinating. Right? But it's weird what they're doing to these bodies. Like they're, they, you know, the guy holding his skin, the people's head split in half. Right. And the brain is floating in the air above it. Like what are you doing? Right.

4 (1h 48m 0s):
Having sex. All of that.

3 (1h 48m 1s):
Yeah. Having sex. There's in the middle of sex, these two dead people fucking Bazar.

4 (1h 48m 8s):
You think they killed them first and then got the bodies to have sex and then cut them up and Yeah.

3 (1h 48m 13s):
They probably, you know, stuck something in the penis to keep it erect and then put it inside the girl's body. And then, and then there's ones of women where they split them right down the middle. And so they split them through their vagina and they cut them in half. And you see like the ovaries and the womb and you see all that. Oh my

4 (1h 48m 31s):
God. That is fucking crazy.

3 (1h 48m 33s):
It's fucking crazy. But go find the pregnant woman one. 'cause that's the most Bazar one. See if you can find the story. Wow. Because the story of the pregnant woman is really horrible.

4 (1h 48m 43s):
And these were journalists that were able to track her back and figure out who she was.

3 (1h 48m 47s):
Yes. So this is the woman.

4 (1h 48m 48s):
Oh my God. That's also so

3 (1h 48m 50s):
Disturbing. Yeah. That is the woman allegedly who was having an the affair with the man who is the mayor of this Chinese city. Oh,

4 (1h 48m 59s):
There was a couple of 'em. Actually. This one's a different, oh, that's

3 (1h 49m 1s):
So sad. Oh, another one. Well found another buddy who fucked up. It's like they're just killing people. They kill people and turn them into fucking statues and then put it in a museum. And it's okay because it's at a museum. Right?

4 (1h 49m 12s):
Right. and it's science. Science.

3 (1h 49m 13s):
Look, it's a science. It's a science museum. This has to be legitimate. So because of this like appeal to authority that you get from being at a science museum, nobody questions it except Sydney Australia's the only, they're like, Hey Mike, what the fuck? Why the fuck did you get this body? Mike I know. I don't know how this is. Okay. But I think this is the only length that exists that I find. So that's the woman. She was a TV news anchor. Rumored to have been Bo Gil's mistress during his term as Dian Mayer Buxton speculates that her pregnant body may have been plastinated in a body world exhibit. Wow.

3 (1h 49m 53s):
Yeah. They obviously deny it. of course they deny it. Of course. Hold up. Stop right there. The skull shape and other features of the pregnant woman's body at the Body World Exhibit said to resemble those of Zang. Also the nearly mature fetus inside the pregnant woman suggest the woman had been the victim of an officially sanctioned execution. The bodies displayed by Bodyworks were prepared by Voss Haggins Plaster Nation company in Dion. Some Nisans have suggested that Bo himself, they have approved the company's registration in 1999 while the mayor of Dion, all the bodies used for the exhibitor said to be from Dion. Gunther Von Hoggins. The company founder is rumored to have special connection with Bo.

3 (1h 50m 34s):
Now you have to see the guy who invented the Body Works exhibit. Right. That's because he's right out of a fucking Indiana Jones movie. He wears creepy hats. That guy, he looks very Bazar. Yeah. See if you can see like some of the other images of me. He always wears that fucking creepy hat.

4 (1h 50m 52s):
Where is he from?

3 (1h 50m 54s):
Gunther. Van. Hogans. I think he's from Austria. German. German. An Thomas anatomist. Oh God. And businessman. But he always wears that fucking creepy hat. He looks like the kind of guy who would be selling, executed people on display. That's him. I mean he looks fucking creepy as shit. That fucking hat alone. That is not the kind hat you wanna wear. If you want to tell me you've got a legitimate business of selling dead people. Oh wow. Look, he looks evil. Wow. Doesn't he? A little bit. See if you can find some other pictures of him because some pictures of him that are like ultra creepy.

4 (1h 51m 28s):
Has he been interviewed? Has anyone asked him about the bodies?

3 (1h 51m 30s):
I think he probably shuts the fuck up. He, he did say that he's donating his body when he dies. He wants to be a party of exhibit. Yeah. He probably feels guilty. Yeah. You know. Yeah. I think some of them have come from Russian prisoners as well. It's not just Chinese prisoners, but some of 'em are from Russian prisoners. Right. But I mean probably none of them are actually people that, oh, we have this body, what are we gonna do with it? Right. It's been sitting around for 30 days. You can't, it, it's literally not possible. 'cause it has to take place within 48 hours of death. Yeah.

4 (1h 51m 58s):
It's, yeah. It's funny.

3 (1h 51m 59s):
Right? Just the process alone Yeah. Would lead people to be very suspicious. Right. What the fuck are you doing over here?

4 (1h 52m 5s):
Yeah. Zero consent

3 (1h 52m 7s):
And knowledge. The science. Yeah, it's science. Yeah. I mean. That's what I saw when I first saw They like the body's exhibit. Like, oh, this is amazing. Von Hogans faces investigation over use of bodies without consent. Hmm. Gunther Von Hoggins, a pioneer of body plaster nation. The technique of preserving bodies using, saturating them with polymer resin who was criticized for his televised autopsy in London is under investigation in the former Soviet state of Kyrgyzstan. And in Heidelberg, Germany. He's accused of using bodies without permission and falsely carrying the title of Professor.

4 (1h 52m 37s):
Professor. Oh, I like that. Oh great.

3 (1h 52m 38s):
He's a fake professor too. He's one of those creepy hat from Heidelberg University. However, in both cases he denies any illegal acts and accuses the other side of misinformation. Oh, the old misinformation term.

4 (1h 52m 51s):
No, he'd make for a great documentary subject.

3 (1h 52m 53s):
Oh yeah. Yeah. He would. I wonder if he let you talk to him. Yeah. After about 200 bodies of unexplained origin were recently found in his institute a krg, how do you say that?

4 (1h 53m 2s):
Krg is?

3 (1h 53m 3s):
Krg is member of the parliament. Abba k Tash, Beko accused Professor Van Hogans of Hagan illegally abducted several hundred bodies. There you go. From former Soviet prisoners, hospitals and psychiatric asylums.

4 (1h 53m 19s):
Abducted as

3 (1h 53m 21s):
How many bodies exhibits are there worldwide?

5 (1h 53m 24s):
Don don't know. They're not all the same company or whatever. You know,

4 (1h 53m 27s):
They started copying it.

5 (1h 53m 28s):
Of course. Of course. One company says they have nine with more coming, right?

3 (1h 53m 31s):
Yeah. There's a lot. I think there's more than a hundred. I think there's more than a hundred exhibits worldwide. I'm not sure about that though. So

5 (1h 53m 38s):
There, there's various comp I We could start one if we found some of their old bodies, you know. Ooh.

3 (1h 53m 43s):
But that JRE body works specifically.

4 (1h 53m 47s):
But that's the thing. It might not be just Russian and Chinese. There might be American bodies. Oh, for sure. That's what they thought that their The kid the Oh yeah. Family members of their family members' bodies were ending up in ation companies. Yeah. It's fucking crazy.

3 (1h 53m 60s):
Well, if they can get it within 48 hours. Yeah. They just gotta like get you to sign papers within 48 hours of death.

4 (1h 54m 6s):
Yeah. I wonder if there's a ation. There has to be a ation company here as well. Right? That does it. don don't know in the US because I know they exist.

3 (1h 54m 13s):
Don don't know. Fuck. Sketchy

4 (1h 54m 15s):
Though. Yeah. So sketchy. Yeah, it's so the whole body parts, all of it was just sketchy as shit. Yeah. We went to a cemetery in the middle of the night grave digging. Oh, oh yeah. And saw them like picking out par parts of a body and saw

3 (1h 54m 32s):
Whoa. Did you get creeped out?

4 (1h 54m 34s):
Yeah, absolutely. I mean shit that you didn't think existed. but it does. You

3 (1h 54m 37s):
Think ghosts and shit?

4 (1h 54m 38s):
No, I'm not afraid of ghosts.

3 (1h 54m 40s):
You're not afraid of ghosts. I would be afraid of ghosts if I was at a cemetery digging up bodies. I mean that's when they come.

4 (1h 54m 46s):
I wasn't the one digging though.

3 (1h 54m 48s):
I know. But you're there. You get caught.

4 (1h 54m 51s):
Caught was, it was a crazy

3 (1h 54m 52s):
Demon attack.

4 (1h 54m 53s):
It's like middle of the night. Totally pitch dark. And we're going in with a ticker and his team.

3 (1h 54m 57s):
What did you investigate at all in organ harvesting? We did, yeah, we did Illegal organs. Like they do that with prisoners too, right?

4 (1h 55m 6s):
Yes. Perhaps we, the ones we found were telling us that they were doing it with immigrants, which is very sad immigrants that were trying to come during the journey to make it to the US And so the most desperate and vulnerable people. And we spent time with a cartel in Columbia and them in in Mexico. And they were saying, yeah, they're going out to even like homeless camps with immigrants in all parts of Mexico. It's very, very hard to prove that, that what they're saying is right. We interviewed a guy called the wrecker. He calls himself the wrecker. He will works for them for this cartel, the golf cartel in Columbia. And he basically told us the most horrific story.

4 (1h 55m 47s):
Like he's in charge of basically killing people and gathering all this stuff, the organs and all that with the doctor that comes that they pay. But it's, it was a, it was one of those interviews that when he left I was like, oh, I'm not sure how much of this is actually true. And we, I talk about it on camera and talk about how it's so hard to verify. But then we went to Mexico and actually interviewed a doctor who was basically threatened by the cartel if he didn't do some of these operations. So he, you know, had no interest in lying to us and told us how this whole thing worked. And then we interviewed an American that went and got an organ in Mexico.

3 (1h 56m 27s):
And so this American, did he know that it came from a murdered immigrant?

4 (1h 56m 31s):
Yeah, I asked him that. And I mean we don't, there's no way of verifying that it came from, but that it came from the black market. So we don't know where the source is. And he said basically, you can judge me all you want, but if you are dying or if your son or daughter was dying and you knew that the only way you could get this organ was on the black market, wouldn't you do it?

3 (1h 56m 49s):
Oh.

4 (1h 56m 51s):
And it's a really good question. Like, yeah, I mean, right?

3 (1h 56m 54s):
I mean depends on who they're killing.

4 (1h 56m 56s):
Right? But he, he, yes Of course, if you know who's show a bad guy, if

3 (1h 56m 60s):
You don, can I get a bad guy's liver? You know?

4 (1h 57m 2s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 57m 3s):
You know what I mean if you know that someone's evil.

4 (1h 57m 5s):
If it's healthy or not.

3 (1h 57m 7s):
Yeah. Right. Probably not.

4 (1h 57m 10s):
Yeah. It's horrible. But again, broken systems, 17 Americans die every day waiting for an organ. And system is broken. So people have to go and look in the black market. and I think I, I do think that if you go, you know, most people don't probably think that this is coming from vulnerable poor immigrants.

3 (1h 57m 27s):
They probably don't want to know.

4 (1h 57m 28s):
No. And and there's plenty of people out there that are willing to sell their, their organs, you know, in places like India and even Mexico, the organs that they can live without. But

3 (1h 57m 38s):
Do you know when they do like a liver donation? Like say if you needed a liver and you and I were the same blood type, they could take half my liver and give it to you and my body would regenerate that liver to full size within six to eight weeks. No.

4 (1h 57m 51s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 57m 52s):
That's

4 (1h 57m 52s):
Why I love to come to your show. So I'm here doing this reporting and I had no idea that was the case. You have this wealth of knowledge about this shit.

3 (1h 57m 58s):
Livers are fascinating. That is

4 (1h 57m 60s):
Insane.

3 (1h 58m 0s):
I didn't know you could donate part of your liver and I could save you with my liver. And my liver would go back to full size in two months. That

4 (1h 58m 7s):
Isn't, why aren't we all donating half of our livers then?

3 (1h 58m 9s):
Well, it's not, you know, if by the time your liver's failing, there's a lot going on. Like you're probably on the death door anyway. You probably have a host of problems. It's usually other than, you know, obviously genetic issues and cancer and all sorts of other stuff. Like some people just are, it's abuse. It's, you know, you're drinking, you know, I I know a guy who died of liver failure. He died of liver failure from drinking. It's just drinking constantly.

4 (1h 58m 35s):
And he was on the wait list for a new liver.

3 (1h 58m 37s):
Nope. don don't think he was just died of liver failure.

4 (1h 58m 41s):
So have they tried that? They've actually given people half a liver.

3 (1h 58m 44s):
Oh yeah. That's a real thing they do that didn didn't know that. Yeah. And your body regenerates it. Liver's the only organ in the body that can replace loss or injured tissue regenerate donor's liver will soon go back to normal size after surgery. The part that you receive is part of the new liver will also grow to normal size in a few weeks. So if you take half of my liver and I still have half, I'll have a full one in a few weeks and so will you.

4 (1h 59m 4s):
Wow. I had no idea. Yeah, it's incredible.

3 (1h 59m 6s):
It's pretty crazy. Yeah. Liver is a pretty amazing organ.

4 (1h 59m 9s):
Yeah, it's amazing. Yeah. Are you on the, are you on the Don's list?

3 (1h 59m 14s):
That's a good question. I think when I signed up for my driver's license, I did that. Yeah.

4 (1h 59m 20s):
Yeah. I am too. And even with this body parts episode, just knowing what happens. It does

3 (1h 59m 25s):
Out there help. Look, a friend of mine has a heart from someone. He had a heart transplant. He, he had a heart attack and his heart was deteriorating and they gave him, and he's still alive and he's got a heart of some other person. Right. Yeah.

4 (1h 59m 39s):
That's amazing.

3 (1h 59m 40s):
He thinks it's an Asian woman. That's like his feeling and Don don't know why. Really? Yeah.

4 (1h 59m 44s):
He just, and they don't, they haven't told him

3 (1h 59m 46s):
Who is, I don't think they'll tell you. No.

4 (1h 59m 48s):
I think if the donor wants the person that gets it to know, they can know. I believe so. 'cause I've seen stories of people reuni like a donor or

3 (1h 59m 57s):
Yeah, that's gotta be crazy. Like someone's carrying around your heart, your loved one's,

4 (2h 0m 2s):
Your loved one's heart. Yeah. That was the story I saw. Exactly. That the daughter had died and the mother wanted to meet the person whose heart.

3 (2h 0m 8s):
Yeah. Well that's

4 (2h 0m 9s):
Want too. That's

3 (2h 0m 11s):
Noble. Yeah.

4 (2h 0m 12s):
Yeah. That's beautiful. Yeah. I think there's a place, I mean I definitely am encouraged donations.

3 (2h 0m 16s):
Well, they're going to be able to regenerate tissue independently in labs. They've already done that with skin. Skin cells. Skin cells where they've recreated bladders and they've recreated different organ parts. They're gonna be able to do that and just swap you out for a new body. Like Maria, it's only about time swap you out for a 20-year-old version of yourself and get

4 (2h 0m 36s):
That would be great.

3 (2h 0m 37s):
Your brain and stick it in a 20-year-old body. Like wow, fantastic. I always wake up in the morning. Oh, nothing hurts. That's great.

4 (2h 0m 44s):
Yes, please.

3 (2h 0m 45s):
Yeah. Well that's probably going to happen. It's probably in our future

4 (2h 0m 50s):
Or an AI version of ourselves

3 (2h 0m 52s):
That's also happening. Yeah. That's more likely. Yeah, that's more likely. Yep. And more likely it will be integrated with ai. That's what I think. Yeah. I think that's, that's, that's definitely happening for, yeah.

4 (2h 1m 2s):
Yeah. Have you had people on the show talking about AI for Oh

3 (2h 1m 5s):
Yeah. Quite a few. Yeah. Yeah. Quite a few. It's, it's kind of a constant conversation because you know, I have Sam Altman was on.

4 (2h 1m 11s):
Oh right. I love Sam

3 (2h 1m 13s):
Alman. He's great. Yes. And then I had the, the gentleman from Tristan Harrison, what was the other guy's name again?

7 (2h 1m 19s):
Za Kin Aza

3 (2h 1m 21s):
Raskin, yes. From the social dilemma. And they came on and they are extremely concerned about AI and the, the race to sentient AI and who controls it and what happens when it gets released and, and what it does. and it seem, and it also seems inevitable. It seems like it's just going to happen and China is involved in it and Russia's involved, the United States is involved and who knows? Not when any other countries are involved in this research as well. Yeah. And they're getting really close.

4 (2h 1m 50s):
Yeah. That it's how do you fight against progress? Right. That's I think the hard thing, right? Mm. I think it's happening. Yeah.

3 (2h 1m 57s):
Whether we like it or not, I just think we, we are the last biological people. That's what I think. Yeah. I think we're the last, I think we're gonna be integrated

4 (2h 2m 10s):
While we're alive still or in our

3 (2h 2m 12s):
Lifetime. Within our lifetime. I think there's gonna be artificial people. Yeah. Yeah. You know, that's one of the big speculations that people have about these aliens and that what we're we're seeing is an alternative dimension or an alternative timeline. And what they, these things are is us in the future. And that they're Oh

4 (2h 2m 33s):
Yeah, exactly. That we are a creation of them and they're watching us and we are creation of something that was done in the future.

3 (2h 2m 39s):
And we become that eventually.

4 (2h 2m 40s):
Right. And the likelihood mathematically is much more likely. Right. That we are that

3 (2h 2m 45s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 2m 45s):
Right. That we're sort of a video game for people in the future that are playing our characters video

3 (2h 2m 50s):
Game or we're some sort of a farm. Right. You know, that this is how they, this is how they develop intelligent life.

4 (2h 2m 58s):
Right, right.

3 (2h 3m 0s):
Yeah. Yeah. don, don't know. Have you ever seen anything crazy when you're out in any of these? Have you ever seen anything weird in the sky or anything?

4 (2h 3m 10s):
Not in the sky. I see so much crazy shit right here.

3 (2h 3m 12s):
Right. The crowd

4 (2h 3m 14s):
Don don't really need to be looking at the sky.

3 (2h 3m 16s):
What else have you, what else did you study this year?

4 (2h 3m 19s):
There's one, a really good one. It's an episode I'm really proud of I mean, all of them. But this one, it started with a, a dm, a direct message from a woman in Minnesota who told me that her father was in prison in, in Mozambique, Africa. And that she was absolutely sure he was not guilty. And it started a huge investigation into Mozambique. Used to be Portuguese, they speak Portuguese. I have friends that live in Mozambique. So immediately it piqued my Curiosity. Why is a older American guy in stuck in prison And his daughter is desperate enough to contact me because she wants to try to figure out how to free her dead. And so we started investigation. Turns out this guy was scammed. Terrible scam. He was told he was a tr retired truck driver, former military.

4 (2h 4m 2s):
He was told that he had gotten, his wife had just died. He was told he had gotten an inheritance and that the inheritance was in Europe. His wife had connections to families in Europe. So it was totally believable according to him. But in order to get the inheritance, he would gav have to do a pit stop in Africa. But they would pay for everything. His flights, his hotels, everything. So it was a free ride to go to Africa, pick up the documents, and then take them to Europe. And in the bag with the documents were some chocolates that he was to take to Europe to the people he was meeting. And as he's in the airport about to board his flight to Europe, he was stopped by the authorities and he was carrying five kilos of heroin inside these chocolates that he was completely unaware and I believe, completely believe he had no idea.

4 (2h 4m 48s):
So he's sent to prison. He's given one day trial, 17 years sentence. He's almost 70 years old, so he's probably gonna die in prison. and it turns out he wasn't the only American there. There was another American from California and a Canadian, all victims of the same scam. And within two, three days, all three of them, and this is one, just one high security prison in Mozambique, out of all prisons around the world. So we went, we visited him, we saw him, we brought his daughter to see him. She hadn't seen him in four years. Super emotional. And then we went to South Africa. We basically investigated the trail of money and who had paid for what, the hotel, the flights, everything. And we came face to face with one of his cameras.

4 (2h 5m 30s):
We filmed undercover in a hotel in South Africa where I basically confronted this guy who's cammed him. I pretended that I was a friend and I was looking for that inheritance as well. And that I had, you know, that I was willing to travel and do whatever for that money. Wow. I pretended I was a, what they call a maga, which is a, a dumb gullible American, they call them Maga, like

3 (2h 5m 54s):
Make America good again. Maga.

4 (2h 5m 55s):
Yeah. It's interestingly the same name, but I don. I don't think it comes from the, it has to be, it's a Nigerian, it's a Nigerian saying new for a gullible person. A new, I don't think it's new. No. So it

3 (2h 6m 4s):
Was, it predates

4 (2h 6m 5s):
Maga. I think so. Wow. It's interestingly the same. Yeah. It's the first thing I thought when I saw it as well when they said it to me. But I pretended I was a maggot and, and then yeah. Came face to face with this, with this guy. It was crazy. What did, what was that like? It was interesting because at first we sat down and he was, I was saying that, you know, that the Rodney BDEs, which is this man's name, the Rodney Baldness name, and you have his inheritance. and I said, I think it's $2.57 million. And is that money still available? And he was like, actually it's 2.4, 2.5. I was like, okay. So he's corroborating the I what I'm saying. I was like, okay. So I started talking with him a little bit more, but then he got a little suspicious and he was asking to see my id.

4 (2h 6m 47s):
He said, okay, great, but in order to be able to continue talking to you, I have to your id. I couldn't show him my ID because I hadn't given him my real name obviously. So at that point I decided to get to leave, pretend I was going to my room to get my id. And then I came back and decided to confront him and tell him, look, I'm a journalist. I'd really like to talk to you on camera. And he was like, pretended that he had no idea what I was talking about, that he didn't know that he had called me Zoe. And then he was like, no, no, no, I'm here to meet, what's her name? Catherine I was like, wait, aren't you Mr. Wilson, the man that I just spoke to? And he was like, oh no, no, I'm not Mr. Wilson. My name is Robert or whatever. I was like, dude, I have you on camera, I'm filming. He's like, we're doing what I'm filming.

4 (2h 7m 28s):
I filmed this whole interaction and then he stands up and, and left. and it was a whole thing because, you know, he's part of this bigger group that is a criminal group and kind of scary and dangerous. But we presented this, we reached out to the state department to see if they could investigate. 'cause they have done very little for Rodney. And if they could investigate his case and crickets, like they don't, nothing, they didn't refuse to talk to us. They say they're doing that, what they can to help him. But he's in completely subter standard conditions in this prison with no real access to good. He, you know, healthcare and the guy's gonna die in prison

3 (2h 8m 7s):
And there's no way to get him out.

4 (2h 8m 9s):
That's what we're trying. I I, I hope that when this stock is aired, it's not on Hulu yet. It'll be on Hulu and it'll be on Night Geo soon. But when it airs that the, you know, the government will take another look and try to do something for this guy. It's like former military guy, you know, he's like, it's so obvious that he's innocent and they're not even trying. Like that's what upset us is that there isn't real help there in getting him his medication. Like his, his food has to be paid, has to be brought from the outside because they don't give him actual food in prison. So his daughter has to send money via me. Oh. To a friend of mine who lives in Mozambique. So it's this whole bank exchange in order to provide food for this guy in prison.

4 (2h 8m 52s):
They don't give you food in prison. They give you like a really bad porridge once a day or something like that. Not something that's any good for your health. And he has diabetes and has a bunch of other, so, so this, they have this, they hire this woman to cook food and bring him to prison every day. God,

3 (2h 9m 9s):
What a way to end your life.

4 (2h 9m 11s):
It's so crazy. Right.

3 (2h 9m 12s):
Scammed like that. Yeah. And just used as a drug mule

4 (2h 9m 14s):
And abandoned by your government. Yeah. Like no one's doing anything. At least that's my Yeah, it's, and realizing that this is actually big and it is happening all around.

3 (2h 9m 25s):
How do you maintain your faith in humanity?

4 (2h 9m 33s):
I do

3 (2h 9m 34s):
I know. You do, you're very friendly, nice, smiling person.

4 (2h 9m 39s):
I'm very, very optimistic. Very optimistic

3 (2h 9m 41s):
About, which is crazy considering what you've seen. But

4 (2h 9m 43s):
It's not because when you're able to sit down with a cartel member, you know, or a scammer in the Philippines or all these people that I meet around the world and I'm able to find humanity in them, I'm able to find commonalities between me and him. I'm able to see that if this person, in the majority of cases was given another op, other opportunities, that he wouldn't be the person he turned out to be. That shows me that it's not entirely humanity that's broken, it's the system. Yeah. It's the systems that we've human beings have created. But the accountability at the end of the day lies and the people of power, the people that are able to make a difference in that system and not in the drug dealers or the coyotes smugglers or the scammers.

4 (2h 10m 26s):
You know,

3 (2h 10m 27s):
It's amazing that you can maintain that perspective and that that just really is an amazing testament to your character that you're able to see that for what it is and not lose faith in people.

4 (2h 10m 38s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 10m 39s):
Because you are confronted constantly with these scenarios. But that is the one thing they have in common is desperate people.

4 (2h 10m 47s):
Absolutely. It's always the most vulnerable people. Nobody is born wanting to be a criminal. Right. You are put in that position and that's what I see again and again.

3 (2h 10m 55s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 10m 56s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 10m 56s):
Listen, Mariana, what you do is amazing. It's a I mean. I'm stunned by your courage. You're, you're one of the real last boots on the ground journalists who goes into terrifying places and consistently exposes these incredibly fascinating, horrific scenes. And if it wasn't for you, a lot of people wouldn't know about a lot of these things. So thank you. Thank you for everything you do.

4 (2h 11m 24s):
Oh, thank you so much for having me and for you're such a supporter of my work. I really appreciate you.

3 (2h 11m 28s):
I appreciate you too. Stay safe. I'll and tell everybody, Trafficked, it's available on Hulu. It's out. How many episodes are available right now?

4 (2h 11m 35s):
10 episodes. Eight are out on Hulu too. We'll come on very soon. And you can watch it also on that geo every Wednesday at 9:00 PM

3 (2h 11m 41s):
And you have how many previous seasons?

4 (2h 11m 44s):
This is a fourth season. We fourth, three more.

3 (2h 11m 46s):
Wow. And they're all awesome. Trafficked, Mariana, van Zeller.

4 (2h 11m 51s):
Alright. Yeah, that's season three right

3 (2h 11m 53s):
There. Go watch it folks. Thank you very much. Appreciate you. Thank you, Jeff. Bye everybody.