0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night, All day.

3 (13s):
And we're up. Yeah. If you have to pee, that's the key to this. If you, you can't talk when you have to pee. 'cause if you do, you're just, you're not gonna, nothing's gonna come out. Right. Yeah. You're just gonna like, be concentrating on peeing. That's like

4 (25s):
Such a good conversation. I was like a piece of land. If I stop, is

3 (28s):
It happen? Yeah. I've learned. I've learned. He just gotta let it go. Is it,

4 (31s):
Did Ari really pee in the fucking Oh,

3 (33s):
Always. Yeah. He, he pees in everything. He pees in whiskey jugs. He pees in kombucha bottles. He's a psychopath.

4 (42s):
It's like my buddy AJ Hawk, he'll be doing the podcast and he's like, just pissing in a Gatorade bottle. I'm like, how many of those you got up in the fucking attic? He's like, well, I stopped doing that. I was like Y Ray.

3 (52s):
When Matt, Sarah was fighting in the UFC, he used to, you know, drink so much water that he would have to get up in the middle of the night to pee all the time. So he'd put like a bucket by the side of his bed

4 (1m 2s):
And just leaned off.

3 (1m 3s):
Yeah. He just leaned off and pissed in something. I think maybe he had a jug, like a one gallon empty jug.

4 (1m 9s):
I had a teammate who would piss himself in practice in games, and then spray a bunch of water to make it like he didn't piss himself. What,

3 (1m 16s):
What a psycho. That's a guy committed to winning.

4 (1m 22s):
I was like, oh, hey, max is doing it again. Max is doing it. I was like, fuck, what

3 (1m 24s):
Is he, did he let guys know he was doing it?

4 (1m 27s):
He, at one point, somebody's like, what the fuck is that? Did you piss yourself s like, yeah. Like, how long have you been doing it since college?

3 (1m 35s):
Jesus Christ. Fuck is wrong with you? He just throws water on

4 (1m 38s):
It. They just spray it, like, takes the water and puts on his mouth and like, sprays him down there. Like, we know Max. We know the fuck is wrong with you

3 (1m 48s):
Fucking athletes. You have to be a fucking crazy person. Yeah. I mean, especially I mean your line of work. You're, you're, you're playing like other than fighting it's the most dangerous game.

4 (2m 1s):
Yeah. Fighting a little more dangerous.

3 (2m 3s):
Yeah. Fighting's more dangerous, but not necessarily, you know, like overall impacts. The kind of impacts.

4 (2m 11s):
It's more con more concussion though

3 (2m 13s):
In fighting. Yeah. Yeah. I would imagine just the, the sparring and training. That's the thing that people don't really take into consideration how many times guys get hit in the head training, depending on what gym they're from and how the gym operates. Some guys, they go really hard in the gym and

4 (2m 31s):
You know, that's a lot of micro concussions over and over. And then if you got one, then you get another hit.

3 (2m 36s):
Do you ever spend any time in hyperbaric chambers?

4 (2m 39s):
Yeah, I did a bunch. Yeah, I did a bunch for my rehab. It was

3 (2m 43s):
Awesome. It helps a lot. Yeah,

4 (2m 44s):
I think so. I mean a lot of it's, I think anecdotal and, but I know this research, but it's not, it wasn't like, I felt like, oh my God, I feel fucking incredible. It's like, no, I think it's helping. Everything's helping.

3 (2m 56s):
Yeah. There was some research that was done in Israel about lengthening of telomeres where they put people on this protocol. I think it was like a 90 day protocol where they did 60 sessions in 90 days and it showed that they, their telomere length increased, which was consistent to a change in age, a biological age of 20 years. 20. Yeah.

4 (3m 21s):
I'm gonna jump in that thing. When I

3 (3m 22s):
Know home Jesus. I don't know whether that I mean. I've talked to Peter Att about that. He's like, that doesn't necessarily mean you're 20 years younger. It's probably beneficial. But there's like, you know, but Peter's like very hardnosed, like, buy the book science. He doesn't leave any room for fuckery. He was late. He was late on the bandwagon for peptides. He's like, I don't know. But now he's in, you know, good. He's, he's very willing to accept information, but he just wants to make sure that it's absolutely accurate before he talks. I

4 (3m 53s):
Respect that. Oh

3 (3m 54s):
Yeah. He is. He's rock solid. Yeah. So you are, how many months out since your injury?

4 (4m 2s):
Almost five.

3 (4m 3s):
Yeah. My wife was just here and we were talking about how we went to see your game. We set it up. We gotta go see Aaron play. He is gonna be playing the Cowboys in Dallas. Let's go. We got all pumped up and

4 (4m 15s):
Fore plays later.

3 (4m 16s):
Yeah. Yeah. How is it now?

4 (4m 17s):
It feels good. It feels good. I can do everything except Sprint at a top speed. So the cool thing is, I, the, I really attacked the rehab the first few months and kind of wanted to go as hard as I could for two months to see where I was at and I also see where the team was at. 'cause my goal was to come back. Nobody has come back really quick from that injury. Most of the time when it happens, especially during season, there's no need to push a rehab because it happened the first week of the season. I said, you know, let's push this as far as I can and see if I can come back in December at some point. So I kind of, in my mind had circled Christmas Eve, which would've been 14 weeks post surgery.

4 (4m 58s):
And yeah, I worked really, really hard. I had a great surgeon who did, you know, a newer process where they kind of attach, anchor the, the sutures through the tendon back into your heel. So it allows you to get on your feet quicker. I did a lot of, you know, other things to speed up the rehab. I did hyperbaric chamber, worked with Bri Brigham, and it weighs to, well, you know, I know you're very good friends with and some him of the podcast here and he is amazing. I did some stem cells, did, you know, full-time rehab up to eight hours a day with, you know, an in credible spot in LA and also at home doing extra stuff.

4 (5m 40s):
My diet was rock solid, a lot of bone broth to increase the collagen levels to increase healing. And so I felt, you know, I felt really, really good. I made it back on the practice field at 11 weeks. The way the NFL works with the ir, you can have a three week window before they gotta make a decision. So they designate you to return. You have three weeks before you get activated. So I was hoping we'd win those three games. I could come back Now I couldn't sprint and still can't at top speed, but I felt like there's been times in my career where I played in a small circle and could have been able to be effective. That didn't happen. And so they didn't, they activated me to the roster.

4 (6m 21s):
I just got to practice, but I didn't get to play. But I feel good, you know, it, it was, I had a lot of things working against me. My age being the biggest one. But I learned a lot about, a lot more about health, which I'm sure people will love to hear about.

3 (6m 36s):
Yeah. I mean if you follow like a waste to well protocol, you can pretty radically speed up recovery for injuries, you know? And what what's interesting is that there's stuff that you can do that you didn't do because it's not allowed, which is, you know, very admirable on your part. But I would, I would've fucking done it. I would, I would've done everything. I was like, let's go. That would've gone the full Conor McGregor route. But when you do, how do they determine whether or not you are fully here? Do they do an MRI and check the tissue and Yeah,

4 (7m 10s):
We were doing the ultrasounds actually for a while just to see what type of blood flow we were getting to the area. We didn't actually do a another MRI, if I had been activated with the intent to play. I think just for safety for everybody, we probably would've done another MRI just to see the integrity, structural integrity of the tendon. But really it was about how I felt. You know? and I was able to, to do all the quarterback stuff, move in the pocket, throw step into my foot. I could actually, you know, jog to slightly faster than a jog to move and throw all things. I kind of showed in practice the last few weeks of

3 (7m 49s):
Season. What happens over that? If you speed it up a little? Do you just feel pain? Do you feel like

4 (7m 54s):
I so don don't have the explosion, I don't have the ability to kind of get up on my toe. The the biggest hurdle was just single leg calf strength. Like being able to, from a standing position, shift my weight onto the single leg and do a heel race. Mm. That, that's how you know you're ready to run. 'cause you run on your athletes play on their toes, you know? So I need to be able to, to do that. Now, I could get around that by subtle movements in the pocket, but there was multiple times throughout my career where I had lower leg injuries and 14 and 18 especially where I was able to play in a small circle in 14, I ripped my calf up pretty bad and was able to kind of play in the shotgun and the pistol for a stretch of time and be effective in 18.

4 (8m 37s):
I banged my knee up on the second drive of the game, you know, tore my MCL had a, you know, a, a fracture on the lateral side and was able to play for a while in, mostly in the shotgun until that healed up. But, so I knew I could do it. I wanted to show I could play under center, which I did in practice, but, you know, we just weren't out of it. So, so I didn't come back.

3 (9m 2s):
Well, it seems like it's the smartest move at your age to make sure it's a hundred percent. Like, like I've seen a lot of athletes come back, particularly from ACL injuries with fighters. They come back too soon and it pops again.

4 (9m 15s):
Yeah, I I, I totally agree with that on, on many levels. But then there's the competitor part where I see that, that window closing and there's not many guys who've been, who've played as long as I have. There's a few, obviously Tom did it for a long time, but you know, there's kind of an age where father time is, is winning. And I know that, you know, I'm, I'm on the last couple holes in my career, so I didn't want to miss an entire season. Are you

3 (9m 45s):
36 now?

4 (9m 46s):
I'm 40. 40, thank you though.

3 (9m 47s):
You look 36. What is, what is like the old is Tom the oldest that people have played?

4 (9m 53s):
I think Tom was 45 is last year. Oh wow. There was some kickers that played about crazy as long. That's crazy. Yeah, 45. 45

3 (10m 0s):
Is crazy. That's crazy. That's crazy. Because if you hear about a fighter that's 45, you're like,

4 (10m 5s):
You hear about a fighter in their late thirties. It's kind of like,

3 (10m 8s):
Except in the the juicy days. The juicy days of the UFC, there were some guys that they competed really well. Well there's

4 (10m 16s):
Still some their, in their thirties, some that are late, late thirties.

3 (10m 19s):
Yo Romero yo is the

4 (10m 21s):
Best example. That's what I was gonna say,

3 (10m 22s):
I mean. But he's the freak of all freaks,

4 (10m 24s):
Dude. They need

3 (10m 25s):
To study that guy on the lab. I know.

4 (10m 27s):
I think you've said that before. Yeah.

3 (10m 28s):
Well, I, I've told the story so many times people get annoyed if I bring it up, but I

4 (10m 31s):
Don't care. You bring it up.

3 (10m 32s):
The UFC brought him to a doctor and the doctor's like, where did you get this guy? And they're like, he's he's awesome, right? And they're like, no, no, no. You don't understand. Like he, I've never seen a human being that's built like him. They said that his, the tendon in his eyes were three times larger than a normal persons. His eye fracture, he had an orbital fracture was already healing by the time they were bringing him into the doctor. They're like, this guy is just a freak by the way. His neck is completely fused. So if you see when he runs, his neck is completely stiff, his neck is totally fused. And that's some shit they did in Cuba, like when he broke his neck. So he is got, this

4 (11m 8s):
Is nice Jamie. This is you guys. This is new how this whole setup?

3 (11m 11s):
No, no. It's always been like this. It's really nice. But I mean he didn't even get into the UFC. I think he was like 36 or 37 when he fought his first fights in the UFC. And he still fighting at a world class

4 (11m 22s):
Level. Didn't he fight when he, didn't he rip his knee up and, and keep fighting? I, I don't know. I thought he had like a ligament damage and kept fighting. Maybe that's somebody else.

3 (11m 31s):
I don't know. He he's probably one of those guys that if he did, he wouldn't tell you. Yeah. You know that Cuban athletic program that he talked about. It was a fun podcast because I did with him and Joey Diaz. So he would talk in Spanish and Joey Diaz would translate it, but occasionally he would talk in English. But he was like, they turn you, he was talking about the, the Cuban program. Like if you are competing for Cuba, if you're on the elite team, you eat three times a day. If you're not on the elite team, you eat twice a day. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. You sleep in better places, you have better food. And so he is like, so the competition is just intense. That one broken leg in KON over Luke Rockhold, he broke his leg.

3 (12m 15s):
Jesus Christ. Wow. He broke his leg when he won. Huh?

4 (12m 19s):
Broke his shin. Is that what it said? I know. Yeah. Police broke his shin after he checked the kid

3 (12m 24s):
Suffering What he believes is a broken leg. Huh? I know. Interesting.

4 (12m 29s):
Yeah, there's some good fights coming up though.

3 (12m 31s):
Oh yeah. Yeah. There's some great fights coming up. The kosky ia por fight. That's the next week. That's a big one. That's a big one. That guy Ia por is fucking terrifying. That guy's an animal.

4 (12m 43s):
Yeah, but so is vk.

3 (12m 44s):
Oh yeah. No, he is, but it's like for Kosky, like I really would've wished that he hadn't taken that second fight. Yeah. With Islam on such short notice. To fight a guy like that with no training on 10 days notice just seems crazy. And then to get head kicked like that, it's just like,

4 (13m 0s):
Ooh.

3 (13m 1s):
But then there's Robert Whitaker and Paul Acosta, Jeff Neal and Ian Machado. Gary, that's a big fight too. Those are good fights.

4 (13m 8s):
Where's it? That's in Anaheim.

3 (13m 10s):
Rab and Henry Soto.

4 (13m 11s):
Are you doing that fight?

3 (13m 12s):
Yes sir. I mean, it's one of the rare times I go back to that communist shit hole. Commonly known California. That fucking place is so crazy. You know, you can't get these, I had a friend of mine, my friend Mosha was here the other day and he's like, oh, you have flavored Can't get flavored out there. You can't get flavored nicotine. Yep. Imagine you can't get flavored nicotine. I think it's

4 (13m 34s):
'cause of the, the vaping. Right? They wanna cut down the vape. What

3 (13m 37s):
The fuck? What does that mean? What does that mean? I'm a grown man. You're telling me that I can go buy whiskey, but I can't get flavored nicotine. Like, what are you doing? Like, they just can't wait to put more controls on people in any way, shape or form. They're trying to outlaw internal combustion engines by 2035. Smart. No new sales. Smart. Yeah, smart. Guess what you fucks every time the powers, like in the, in the summertime, they tell people not to charge their cars. 'cause the grid's gonna go down. Like, what are you gonna do? You gonna do a radical upheaval of the grid in 11 years? No, you're not. I'm

4 (14m 11s):
Sure Newsom can get it done. Yeah.

3 (14m 13s):
They're just talking. They just, it's like literally every goal is to just say the right things. Check the right boxes so people think you're green, you're green, and you're all dei out. And then they don't, they don't care about the infrastructure of the country. It's fucking crazy.

4 (14m 29s):
No, they don't care at all. They, they definitely don't care at all. It's it's control. Yeah. They just want control. They want total control. and it, well, when you live

3 (14m 38s):
A place like this, you realize how much A, it's control. And B, it doesn't change anything. You don, you're not safer. Yeah. When they do it like that, like you're better off here.

4 (14m 47s):
Well, Texas has own grid.

3 (14m 49s):
Yes. That's true too as well. And Texas provides oil to much of the country. This is like Texas could be its own country and there's a a lot of real psychos who want it to be Yeah,

4 (14m 60s):
You're one of them. No,

3 (15m 1s):
No, no. I still believe in the United States. I'm, I'm a patriot. I still believe in America. I just don't believe in politicians and I think they have to figure out a way to extract money from politics. They have to do two things, two things to fix a lot. They have to stop congress. People from being able to fucking insider trade. That shit is insane. When you see the fact that these people are making a hundred Nancy, 70,000 bucks. Nancy's incredible.

4 (15m 24s):
Oh, she's great at it.

3 (15m 24s):
She's amazing. Amazing. She's a wizard at it. but it's not just her. If you look at the chart, that's the thing about it is they all kind of keep their mouth shut. Because if you look at the real numbers, it's pretty much divided. It's both sides. Two Republicans, sides. Both sides. It definitely both sides. Yeah. It's both. Both sides are doing it. But that's e that's crazy. They put Martha Stewart in jail for way less. Martha Stewart, they put Martha Stewart, America's mom. They put her in jail for insider trading. And yet these Congress people are completely exempt from it.

4 (15m 53s):
But it wasn't them. Right. It was their significant other. I'm sure they weren't sharing any information. Some

3 (15m 57s):
Of it's them,

4 (15m 58s):
Some of it is them.

3 (15m 59s):
Oh yeah, it's them. Yeah. Yeah. They, they know what bills are gonna be passed. They buy a shitload of stock and they passed these bills and then this whatever industry is, goes up and they make enormous profits. There's people that are making 150, 170 $200,000 a year and they're worth $90 million in any other business. You'd be investigated. Yeah. And if you were a fucking plumber and you were making $190,000 a year and you were worth hundreds of millions of dollars, people would go, what the fuck are you doing Ted? You know, they would crawl up your ass with a microscope. Where the fuck did you get this money? How do you know all these things? Like where are you getting this data? How are you able to do this? Oh, you passed the laws.

3 (16m 40s):
You passed the laws. That changes the value of these companies. And then you gamble on that. That's what you're doing. You're going to jail. You're going to jail like that. That should be illegal because you're gonna do things to profit that are above and be that, that are ahead. You're gonna put that ahead of the better good of the United States. You're going to, they all do. Yeah.

4 (17m 6s):
Yeah. Of course. So that's one. What's the other

3 (17m 8s):
One? They gotta take money outta politics. They gotta take the, the amount of donations that Super pacs and these, these special interest groups are allowed to give to these politicians and then are completely beholden to them once they get into office. They have to figure out a way to stop that I mean it's, it should have never been allowed in the first place. Another thing would be get back on the gold standard. That would be a great move too. But that's too late.

4 (17m 31s):
But JFK was trying to do that. Yeah. Silver Standard. Yeah.

3 (17m 34s):
Guess what they did to him?

4 (17m 37s):
Yeah,

3 (17m 38s):
Yeah. Yeah. Man. You see Bobby Kennedy out there, they won't even give him secret service protection secret, which is just fucking egregious. It's so wild. They won't give him se he's the only presidential candidate ever that's been denied secret service protection

4 (17m 54s):
Three times I think already. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (17m 57s):
It's just, they're so fucking corrupt. Yeah. And they're so in your face with it and no one does anything about it.

4 (18m 2s):
Well, you had Bobby on the, on the podcast. Yes, I did. Yeah. What'd you think of him? I

3 (18m 5s):
Love him. Yeah. I love, I love Look, if forget about the vaccine stuff, which look, I think he's got very good points about all that stuff. It's, there's real data. And if you read his book, if you read the Real Anthony Fauci, you'll be sick to your stomach if you know the absolute truth. If it wasn't truth wasn't truth. He'd getting sued. He'd be sued. Yeah. He's not getting sued for a fucking reason. But just that alone. But then if you forget about the vaccine stuff, you just look at his environmental record. What he did when he was an environmental attorney, when he was suing these companies, they were PA Yeah. I mean he, they cleaned up the Hudson River because of him. Yeah. He's an amazing guy. I love, I really love him. And the things that he's been saying about what, what happened during the pandemic, you know, he, he had some talk that he did recently, some speech, some conversation he did recently that was public where he was talking about this is we're being poisoned by food.

3 (18m 55s):
And this is why everybody got so sick from Covid. The disparity between people who got covid and it was just a cold versus people who got covid and they were deadly ill is a hundred percent what they're eating and what that does to their body and how it compromises their immune system and how it causes comorbidities like diabetes type two diabetes and obesity and heart disease. It's, this is all a direct relationship to food,

4 (19m 20s):
But there's no money in, in, in healing people. You know, the chronic disease, that's, it's a huge money maker. Yeah. And it's not gonna change. I was watching something the other day with, with Tucker Carlson was interviewing somebody named Callie. Means I know if you saw this, but he's talking about

3 (19m 36s):
Ozempic. Yeah. Yes, I did see that. Yeah. We're talking about it yesterday.

4 (19m 39s):
But one of the big points that he made that, that people I think forget is that why are these drug companies, big pharma, spending so much money on advertisements during the news, is not to sell their products. They don't have a problem with that. It's to control the messaging. Yes. I mean they're fucking controlling the message. For sure. So if, if somebody went after that and said, Hey, you're not gonna be allowed to advertise on TV anymore. 'cause I think we're one of the only countries, maybe there's one other country. New

3 (20m 6s):
Zealand's the only other

4 (20m 7s):
Country. Okay. So there's two countries. It would be, you know, they would be attacked for anti-science or Yeah. Or whatever it might be. What, what RFK wants to do, you know, kind of the dismantling or the re forming, realigning of the CDC and I h and some of these alphabet companies who've been lying and misleading the public for so long. You know, he would get absolutely slaughtered by, by the media. Why? Not? Because they actually believe that, but because who's paying them? Yes. It's those companies. So they control the message. So when, when you come out and talk about, you know, what you use to hear yourself during Covid, or when I come out and talk about, or Dr. Peter McCullough or Robert Malone, or insert anybody who was just trying to Corey Yeah.

4 (20m 52s):
Pier Corey. They get absolutely railroaded. Yeah. And censored and silenced and attacked. Yeah. And slandered.

3 (20m 58s):
It's not I mean it's not the news. It's corporate controlled. It's completely controlled and it's, it's not good for us. And the fact that people went along with it because they thought ideologically that that group of people aligned with their side. And the other side was Donald Trump and the maga and the vaccine deniers and all, all the craziness that they attributed to that I mean. It's really kind of brilliant the way they've pushed this propaganda. But at the end of the day, it's not beneficial to, to the greater good of society. If the, if the media was legitimate, they would be talking about one of the biggest crises that's happening in this country right now, which is a massive increase in all cause mortality. Yeah. It's a massive increase.

3 (21m 38s):
And they're completely sign on on it. It's like in some age groups it's a 40 plus percent increase in all cause mortality, heart attacks, strokes, cancer. Gee, what, what do you think happened that changed where all of a sudden there's this massive increase and it coincides with something else. Don't you think maybe they would investigate that? Wouldn't, don't you think that like you would have some sort of investigative reporter that dives deep into this and gets to the bottom of it? No, they can't because of what you said. They're, they're captured. Because

4 (22m 5s):
They're captured. They're totally captured. A hundred percent. And yeah. It's just on and on and on through this whole thing. My, my thing is this is, you know, all of us who've been attacked for our position to all those people, what do you think the fucking motivation is? Yeah. I mean, I, you know, just look at my own situation. Like I lost friends, allies in the media. Millions of dollars in sponsorship because I talked about what worked for me and my own beliefs and my own health reasons why I didn't get vaccinated.

3 (22m 40s):
Oh, by the way, you were right. Yeah, you were right. Look, you didn't need it. Look how quickly you recovered. You are fine.

4 (22m 46s):
And same with you. Yeah. And what did they do? They changed the color of your face. They, they vilified all early treatments, including the medicine that's has one of the safest profiles Yeah. Out there. That the, the, we've talked about this. The guy who invented it got a Nobel Prize.

3 (23m 2s):
Nobel Prize Prize.

4 (23m 2s):
Yeah. They were using it all over the world in to Pradesh in Africa and various places. And that's what you do during a pandemic. Right. You find ways to repurpose drugs Yeah. For early treatments. But now they couldn't do that. 'cause if there's an early treatment, then they can't get the ua fucking

3 (23m 15s):
Do this have been proven to have antiviral properties. Yeah. I

4 (23m 18s):
Mean, but what's the motivation for Peter McCullough who got vilified? What's the motivation for Robert Malone? Like,

3 (23m 22s):
Well, if you know Peter McCullough. Peter McCullough is like, that guy has standards and morals and ethics. Yeah. I mean he is a rock solid doc. Rock. And

4 (23m 30s):
He actually treated patients too.

3 (23m 31s):
Actually treated patients. He's also the most published doctor in history. Yeah. In his particular field of study.

4 (23m 39s):
Like what's, what do you, what is the, the conspiracy on that About motivation? Like what do I get out of this? Yeah. Well what do you get out of outta share what you share?

3 (23m 47s):
Well, I didn't think anything was gonna happen when, when the it happened with me. I knew that people were upset at me 'cause I was hesitant to take the vaccine. But that was because two people I knew got strokes. Yeah. I wasn't initially hesitant at all. I was set up to take it. I was set up to take it by the UFC by UFC.

4 (24m 2s):
Yeah, you

3 (24m 2s):
Said that. Yeah. I was ready to do it. I was like, okay, shoot me up. I was gonna have them do it to me. I thought of it like a flu shot. Like if I was about to do the UFC and they said, oh, you have to take a flu shot before you go to the UFC. I'm like, all right, just stick me. I didn't think it was gonna be a big deal. And then they, they said, well, in two weeks when you're back, just come early and you come to the clinic. I said, okay, we'll do that. And then within that two weeks it got pulled. Yeah. Luckily, you know, but it, it's not just those two guys. I know a lot of people now with pretty severe vaccine injuries.

4 (24m 31s):
So

3 (24m 31s):
Do I. And so many people have reached out to me because of what happened to me. Celebrities that wanted to be quiet about it. You know, people that are like really hesitant about talking about it openly and publicly, but they were really scared. Like people that have like real serious problem. I have two friends that have pacemakers now.

4 (24m 48s):
Yeah, I remember you talked about that. They're like one of 'em in their thirties, right? Yeah.

3 (24m 51s):
He's a, a dentist. That's

4 (24m 53s):
Not fucking

3 (24m 53s):
Normal. No, it's not normal.

4 (24m 54s):
It's not normal at all for

3 (24m 55s):
Your heart to stop for nine seconds at a time. He's a thin, healthy young guy and all of a sudden his heart starts fucking up. Why

4 (25m 2s):
Does nobody care about that?

3 (25m 3s):
Well, everyone's scared. There's people that are scared because they took it and they're worried that they have a ticking time bomb. And they want any information, any information that refutes that. And that confirms that they made the right choice. Also, they did make the right choice morally and ethically when they did it, they did it because they thought they were doing the right thing. Everybody has to do it. We're gonna protect everyone. If we all do this, this is gonna get us outta the pandemic. Because the news media was being used by these pharmaceutical drug companies to push a very specific narrative. And they didn't do any critical thinking. They didn't step outside the box. They didn't talk to any scientists that differed. They all just stuck with whatever Fauci said, whatever the NIH said.

3 (25m 46s):
And they also demonized people who were saying things that have been proven to be absolutely correct. Like the fucking lab leak theory. If you brought up the lab leak theory, you used to get banned from YouTube. Now it's widely accepted by everyone.

4 (25m 59s):
Everyone. So was all the, all the conspiracies that, that got people censored and kicked off. Yeah. So many of 'em have been proven to be true. Yeah. Yeah. and I agree with you. So many people thought they were doing the right thing. Yes. They thought, I'm doing my part. This is what we're supposed to do to stop the spread, you know, to, you know, yeah, I'm full on board, we're

3 (26m 16s):
All together,

4 (26m 17s):
But let's look at what happened. And people are always like, why do you keep fucking bringing up the vaccine for multiple reasons? But listen, this is a playbook that now we have. Right. For the next time they fucking try and do this shit. Right. Don't forget about this. Don't forget talking

3 (26m 29s):
About disease,

4 (26m 30s):
Disease X.

3 (26m 31s):
Now what is the, when was the last time they were talking about a disease that doesn't exist that's not affecting anybody? That's that Literally, there's no one sick, there's no one dying. And they're talking about how it's coming.

4 (26m 41s):
Well just watch what Bill Gates does. 'cause the, the last time he invested $50 million in, in a, in a company, he made a pretty good score. And then he pulled all his money out

3 (26m 49s):
And then he started disparaging the effectiveness of the vaccine. After

4 (26m 52s):
He pulled his money out

3 (26m 53s):
Though, after he pulled his money in that, and he also started saying the va that the virus wasn't as bad as we thought it was. Yeah. Oh gee. How convenient. Yeah.

4 (27m 0s):
What happened to the flu?

3 (27m 1s):
Yeah. Flu went away.

4 (27m 4s):
Zero cases. It's crazy. I mean

3 (27m 8s):
It is pretty crazy. But

4 (27m 9s):
We can't, we cannot forget about what happened. No. Because this is what they're gonna do next time. Well,

3 (27m 16s):
The big loser in, in this, besides the people that lost their jobs and their businesses closed and people lost their lives. The Big loser has been mainstream media because the trusted mainstream media is at an all time low I mean they're laying off journalists left and right. No one wants to read the newspaper anymore. No one believes them. CNN lost all their big hosts. It's like they lost

4 (27m 41s):
And they lost their streaming service. Yeah.

3 (27m 43s):
Well that was, that was hilarious. They dumped money into something to get people to pay for something that no one wants for free. Yeah. and it was like Anderson's Cooper's book club. Like, what the fuck are you doing?

4 (27m 55s):
If I was,

3 (27m 55s):
If I was a shareholder in cnn, how

4 (27m 57s):
Much? Only $10 a month. Okay.

3 (27m 59s):
Yeah. I was like, what the fuck are you guys doing? Do you really think anybody's gonna pay for CNN? No. What are you

4 (28m 5s):
Offering? Nobody watches Now that Trump's not No, the numbers they get are so small. That's why, you know, it's, it's platforms like this that are actually bringing the information that people wanna watch instead of watching the fucking news. Like people used to trust in you. There's six o'clock nightly news and I'm gonna get this story. You know, there's no more Walter Cronkites out there. Right. It's, it's, it's, it's long form conversations that are actually informing people on what's going on.

3 (28m 27s):
It's that, and it's people steering you to legitimate journalists that are independent. The Michael Shellenberger is the Glenn Green Walls, the, the people that are experts in their field. The Brett Weinsteins, the people that actually know what they're talking about. But it's just a weird landscape that we're in now that just didn't exist before where we don't, we, we we're absolutely sure that you can't trust the mainstream media anymore. We're absolutely sure of that. And even boomers know that now. Even the people that would've been trusting the mainstream media their whole life, they're like, wow, there're definitely something's wrong. They don't know what it's, but

4 (28m 57s):
Something's brought to you by Pfizer.

3 (28m 59s):
Yeah. Oh, those, those are amazing. Those compilations Anderson Cooper brought to you by Pfizer.

4 (29m 5s):
I was watching the playoff game the other day and it said, you know, NFL football brought to you by Pfizer. I was like, yeah, I knew that.

3 (29m 14s):
Yikes. Yeah. Yeah. Well they made a lot of money and they'd like to do that again. You know, and that's what you have to be really careful about. But what they're doing that again now with is ozempic and they're making a shit load of money off of this drug that essentially paralyzes your fucking stomach. It, it slows your body's ability to digest. It causes a host of gastrointestinal issues for some people. All sorts of weird side effects. People have died taking it. And they're pushing it and they're pushing it even on kids. They're, it's like a primary weight loss strategy for obesity. Instead of dietary change. Instead of realizing like, you gotta get better the same way you got sick. How'd you get sick? You took a bunch of bad food.

3 (29m 54s):
You get, here's how you get better. Eat only good food. You know, see how you got fat exercise. Yeah. Too many calories. This is how you l you gotta lose weight. So you have to have less calories in than you're burning. And you gotta exercise. And you got, how about start drinking water? Stop drinking soda. We, we had this chart up yesterday of how many people on food stamps buy soda? Like how much of food stamps is spent on soda? It's fucking crazy. It's like, poor people just drinking poison. Drinking sugary poison.

4 (30m 23s):
But see, that's part of the, the problem too. You look at not just what they pushed or what they closed down during the, the, the lockdowns. You know, you had what was open, you had fast food restaurants open. Yep. Like you had fucking processed food places open. But, but the food that's actually the best for you oftentimes is the most expensive. Yeah. So you have to find a way to, whether it's doing all out, you know, tariffs on certain extra taxes, on certain types of products, or, you know, I don't know how you're gonna change the farming system. Especially with Bill Gates being one of the biggest farm landowners there. And he is pushing, you know, insects and his, what's it called?

4 (31m 3s):
Appeal thing that he's putting on all the, all the, all the fruit and stuff. But the problem is, in order to eat healthier, you have to spend more money because the shitty food is the, is the least expensive. What

3 (31m 13s):
Scares the shit outta me is what they're doing to farmers in Europe. Like the Dutch farmers. Yeah. And in Ireland, they're telling farmers that they have to kill cows 'cause they have too many cows and they're contributing to the, the global warming.

4 (31m 25s):
See, the guy had, I think he was in Congress who was interviewing somebody and asking these, you know, climate change people about how much CO2 is. Yeah. You know, and, and then they don't know They're

3 (31m 35s):
Way off. Yeah. They're way off and, and, and they're making the decisions. Yeah. And they, they, they literally are just, it's completely ideological. The ideological battle, the demon that you're fighting is climate change. And we must do something to stop climate change. Meanwhile, India and China aren't doing a fucking thing. No. And they're contributing to most of it. Literally, most of the carbon that's being released, like if you look at the amount of fucking coal plants that China has, they're opening up new ones. They have hundreds of them in construction.

4 (32m 5s):
Wasn't that the whole point of the, what was it in Paris? They had some sort of climate

3 (32m 10s):
Accord.

4 (32m 10s):
Yeah. And, but it wasn't taking effect. Or there was different rules for other countries. Yeah. But we had to adhere to something that nobody else was adhering to. It's

3 (32m 18s):
Control.

4 (32m 19s):
But that's what we've told the last, if you look at, I saw some, some, you know, something on, on X about like what they were telling us in the sixties and the seventies and the eighties. The world was always gonna end based on something, you know, and they, and now it's, it's just climate change. We gotta change the, you know, the way we live in order for us to keep going. It's like they've been doing this for the last five decades.

3 (32m 38s):
They would like to control the food, the food system. And there's a tremendous amount of money in controlling the food system. And if they could get you to only buy their food and they can convince you that their food is somehow or another emits less carb and, and, and come up with some fucking Hollywood math that shows you that this is the only way to do it. And this is the way out of this.

4 (33m 0s):
Well, I just learned something online that if you grow your own food, actually your carbon footprint is much greater than

3 (33m 9s):
I posted that on my Instagram. I know. and it got fact.

4 (33m 11s):
Sorry. It got

3 (33m 13s):
Fact checked. Yeah. Not, I don't see the fact check. But if someone goes to my page and sees that it says something about like, partially true or not, like, listen, it's a fucking article that was in whatever newspaper it was that I saw. And I was like, this is hilarious. Like, there, how is it even possible fucking

4 (33m 33s):
Crazy? Is that,

3 (33m 34s):
How is it even possible that it emits more carbon? You're literally growing plants in the ground, which take carbon dioxide and convert them to oxygen. Yep. That's all you're doing. You don't have any heavy machinery. You're growing your own food. So you just got a little garden. So you growing your own food. Don't do it. Joe releases more carbon.

4 (33m 52s):
Do not do it.

3 (33m 53s):
Don don't even know how they did the math. Like how the fuck did they even say that? I don, what does it say? If you go to my page I don and it says it's FactCheck. I don't see a FactCheck. Oh, it's definitely fact checked. I just checked, my wife showed it to me. I know. I'm

5 (34m 5s):
Just saying I don. I didn't see it. I just checked on my phone too. don don't see it.

3 (34m 7s):
Well, maybe they took it down because people freaked out. Yeah.

4 (34m 10s):
There it is. Five times greater.

3 (34m 13s):
How's it possible? You're literally growing something that takes oxygen and puts it out into the air. It converts carbon dioxide to oxygen through photosynthesis. That's literally what it does. That's literally what plants do. They make oxygen. Think

4 (34m 30s):
About that. What if you didn't? What if you didn't have, everybody's got lawns, right? What if the, what if you had your own fucking garden? Yeah. Like how, how different would would things be? Well,

3 (34m 38s):
You'd be a lot fucking healthier. Yeah. You'd be a lot. He if you're eating stuff that doesn't have fucking all kinds of herbicides and pesticides sprayed all over it. You know that when they've done these tests, when they checked people's blood, some insane number. What is it like 90 something percent of people they tested had glyphosate, had detectable levels. Yeah. And glyphosate's nuts. Like it's, they fucking spray that shit on everything. And it's, it's crazy. That's, that's really bad for you.

4 (35m 4s):
That mean, you know who owns Monsanto, right?

3 (35m 7s):
It's Bayer, right? Yeah. Yeah. Bayer the same people that during the Holocaust were I mean. Brigham talked about that on I know my podcast where they took these people that were in the concentration camps. They took 150 women, they tried their drugs on them, killed them,

4 (35m 24s):
Said We need, we

3 (35m 25s):
Need more. We need more. More. And they sent them more. So they sent them more. So that company Bear did that.

4 (35m 32s):
Yeah. Bot Manzano, which was taking a bunch of heat because their roundup is killing people. Yeah.

3 (35m 39s):
Yeah. It's

4 (35m 39s):
How do you, how do you change that I mean? That's,

3 (35m 41s):
Well you need a guy like Bobby Kennedy in office. Yeah. But boy, they would put him in a convertible and take him to a ride through Dallas quick.

4 (35m 49s):
Don don't know. I would think at some point though, it's wouldn't that start?

3 (35m 53s):
Well, I think at some point in time people are gonna

4 (35m 55s):
Get, people are waking, they're waking up. Yeah. To certain things. There's still, the loudest group is, is not the majority. I I really don't believe and I think there's a silent majority that's like, fuck the media legacy media lies nonstop. Yeah. Big pharma doesn't have our bets interest in mind. Politicians are all corrupted. The majority of them. Like, people are waking up, I think slowly. Yeah. It's just, they're not the loudest. Like, like I was telling a friend, I said, who do you know in your life that spends their days online trolling accounts, commenting on posts, commenting on X? Nobody, I don't know anybody like that who like spends their life negative common. But those are the ones that get amplified and talked about.

4 (36m 37s):
Yeah. And I'm like, that's not, that's not a, the swath of the population. That's like the majority. That's

3 (36m 43s):
A fucking No. It's very unhealthy. Small minority people. Plus a lot of them are paid. Yeah. There's a lot of them that are, whether it's from our government or other governments, much more foreign countries that are, we know that's been documented that they have these internet troll farms that they're specifically designed to get people upset and rile them up and get them fighting with each other and and diminish our appreciation and our, our our respect for democracy.

4 (37m 12s):
What was the quote you talked about that was, what was it, 1950s? The Russian guy? Or was

3 (37m 18s):
It living Oh, Yuri Beov. Yeah. Yeah. 1984.

4 (37m 20s):
Oh yeah. 1984.

3 (37m 21s):
Yeah. Or I think it was 82, but whatever it was,

4 (37m 23s):
84 sounds better. 'cause it's

3 (37m 25s):
Yeah. He's the perfect morian. Yeah. Yuri Beov. He, he explained the, the subversion, he explained

4 (37m 33s):
How, and it was a multi it works was multi-decade plan, right? Yeah. To slowly turn the country.

3 (37m 38s):
And back then it was looked like nonsense. Yeah. Like what are you talking about? Yeah. But now it absolutely, everything he said of the 1980s has come to be true. Yeah. And the Soviet Union has done it. They did it to, they did it to us. They, they fucking injected the universities with Marxism.

4 (37m 55s):
What do you think is gonna happen with this? If Tucker really did interview Putin?

3 (38m 0s):
I think he did. I think he did. Yeah. He's over there. Tweet where he said

4 (38m 3s):
Something like, why I did. I should. It's not out though, right?

3 (38m 5s):
But what's crazy. But what's crazy is the way CNN is already trying to spin it. Like, you know that Tucker Carl, you know, Putin's biggest fan? Tucker Carlson a fan of Russia. You know, they're trying to, they they, they

4 (38m 16s):
He's the McCarthyism tactics. Yeah.

3 (38m 18s):
Oh, he's over there. He didn't interview pleasure Putin. Do you know that he said that the NSA or the CIA, whoever it was got into his signal account.

4 (38m 28s):
Signal. Signal. That was scary. 'cause

3 (38m 29s):
Yeah, that's supposed to be encrypted. Yeah. But nothing's encrypted anymore. I don don. Don't think there's a goddamn thing that you could do on your phone unless you have some wacky fucking crazy operating system that you know, maybe only fucking Jeff Bezos knows. You know, I don't, I don't I

4 (38m 47s):
Don think you can VPN. Right. That helps. I

3 (38m 49s):
Don't think you can don don't, don don't. I think with Pegasus, the way it was explained to me by Gavin de Becker, who's a securities expert. Yeah, he's, he, yeah. He's awesome. Yeah. Yeah. But Gavin said that the first Pegasus, which they got, that's how they got all Bezos's dick pics and all that shit. All the letters to his girlfriend that apparently her brother was doing something to try to blackmail Bezos. It's 'cause he got a hold of it. Somehow or another. Those that was through Pegasus. Pegasus one, he got a WhatsApp link supposedly from MBS, from Saudi Arabia. And he got this WhatsApp link. He clicks on the link and that puts Pegasus on his phone. And now they have full access to your phone.

3 (39m 29s):
He said with Pegasus two, all they need is your number. They have your phone number, they can see everything.

4 (39m 35s):
What?

3 (39m 36s):
Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, I don't know how it works. So I don't know how they would be able to access your signal account. I don't understand that. I've had the guy who created Signal here and you know, he seemed to think it was pretty rock solid, but that was back then, you know, it's like they're always one step ahead of this. And before we know about it, there has to be some whistleblower that comes out and says, Hey, the NSA can do this now.

4 (40m 1s):
Ed Snowden tried to do that. Yeah.

3 (40m 2s):
Yeah.

4 (40m 3s):
My biggest problem with, with the kind of a counter argument to that, where a common sentiment is, well I don't care. I have nothing to hide. It's like you're missing the fucking point. Yeah. The point is that there should be some freedom of privacy. Yeah. To not have to have fucking people looking at your shit. Yeah. It's not, and I don't care. You have nothing to fucking hide. This country was founded as a constitutional republic to protect personal freedoms. and I shouldn't have to worry about somebody fucking in my shit all the time. Well,

3 (40m 33s):
That's one of the things that they did that was very insidious after nine 11. 'cause after nine 11 they passed the Patriot Act and they had

4 (40m 39s):
That thing dialed

3 (40m 40s):
Up right away. Yeah. Oh, they had it ready because they had tried to push that before and it, nobody wanted it. And then when nine 11 came around, they just rolled all those, all those bills, everything that they wanted to do. They just chucked it into the Patriot Act. And then the Patriot Act too, which is even more draconian. And now all that stuff's in, in place in definite, in definite detention. Like for people that aren't tried for anything, they could just keep you in jail forever. I mean, look what they're doing with Julian Assange. I mean Julian Assange. Like, he's not really tried with a crime. Like the crime was surprise sex. Like that's what they were trying to get him. Like they said that he is ha he was having sex with a woman and then without her knowing it, he didn't have the condom on.

3 (41m 20s):
It's they weren't, no one was. And then she didn't wanna press charges. Like, I don't know what the extent of that case is now or what they're going after him for now. But that was what they were initially trying to get him on.

4 (41m 32s):
Yeah. But I mean what, what's his, what's his ultimate crime?

3 (41m 35s):
His ultimate crime is the letting people know that what the hell's going on. Yeah. There's a lot of, well it was also that the collateral murder video, the people had a really hard time with that where they gunned down those reporters and then you could hear the soldiers saying, yep. Shouldn't have had kids there when they're shooting up that van. Like Yeah. The whole thing is very, very difficult to watch. And it's one of the cold hard realities of the, the evil that is war. And you know, you're seeing that right now. What's going on in Gaza, you're seeing the same fucking thing. You know, it's just, that's what war is. And there's people that'll justify that All day long and saying they shouldn't have done this.

3 (42m 16s):
And you know, and that's how it goes. But man, if you live in Gaza, what the fuck do you do? Like you didn't do anything. You just got the wrong roll of the dice and you're stuck in this place that's controlled by Hamas with abject poverty and no sanitation. And, and now it's getting bombed into oblivion. I mean the videos, when you see what Gaza looked like and what it looks like now, it's fucking insane. And they're not stopping. No, they're they're not stopping. They're just gonna keep bombing it into oblivion.

4 (42m 46s):
Some of that has to change. I mean like, there has to be something that turn, I don't know what it is I mean. Yeah. It might be, might be the only thing. It might be I mean. That's, it's interesting to see how much has changed, you know, in that over the last I know, 15 years. Just how people can talk about it now without being called crazy. Yeah. There's, there's some disclosure. I actually went back the other day. I was watching an old, I think it was from 2018 or 19 when you had Bob Lazar and Jeremy on, and I mean he's been talking about this forever. Yeah. But like, what, what's gonna happen with that? There's gotta be something, you know, there's been conspiracies about Project Bluebeam and there's obviously a lot of these dumbs around the country where there's interesting technologies and stuff.

4 (43m 35s):
But I gotta think that something, I think this is gonna be a crazier, I think something, especially if it's if if it gets down to it. Yeah. and it looks like the Trump wave is gonna, you know, 'cause they can't roll out Weekend and Bernie's and expect him to, to be able to debate or actually carry a conversation. don don't think

3 (43m 53s):
That's the plan. I think the plan is you wait until it becomes extremely obvious that Bidet can't do it and then they pull him out and I think they probably put in Gavin Newsom. That's what I think he's hated though, in

4 (44m 6s):
California.

3 (44m 7s):
Yeah. But there's enough zombies out there that'll just blue no matter who, and he's our guy. They don't care. They're like, no one could have had California's just a population's too high. And it's like, what are you gonna do? And they'll come up with some sort of a reason and he'll move a little bit towards the middle. He'll do some common sense things and get people go, all right, I like that. And that'll be enough. Wow. Any he these, the anyone but Trump people, you know. But look at the fucking view Whoopi Goldberg saying that he, he's gonna, you might be poor and you might be saying, well maybe Donald Trump, Trump be better for the car. He's gonna put you in camps. Do you see her saying that?

4 (44m 44s):
No, but I'm not surprised. Yes. Put

3 (44m 45s):
You in camps.

4 (44m 46s):
Nobody watches this. Who watches that show?

3 (44m 48s):
Crazy old ladies. Crazy old ladies that are home. Right, right now.

4 (44m 52s):
But instead of like, if you look at the this two party system and go, who's the lesser of the two evils? I would say, how about let's fuck the two party system and yeah, let's have some more options. And one of 'em in my opinion is RFK, who's phenomenal. Well they

3 (45m 10s):
Kept him off the ballot. They did. They did a phenomenal job of making sure that he wasn't in the primaries the same way they were gonna do it with Bernie Sanders.

4 (45m 18s):
That's why he went independent. Yeah. But get him in a debate. Yeah. Why do we have to wait till fucking September for a debate? Well, how about the

3 (45m 24s):
Fact that he won't debate nor will bidet, no one's debating. This is the first time we've ever had a presidential election where neither the incumbent nor the main guy on the opposition is

4 (45m 35s):
Debating. So Trump's not said, he is not gonna debate. He's

3 (45m 37s):
Not debating anybody

4 (45m 38s):
Why he'd mop the floor with

3 (45m 39s):
He doesn't have to.

4 (45m 40s):
He Yeah, I guess that's true. So he is

3 (45m 41s):
Like, fuck you, I'm not debating. And also because they keep trying him, they keep bringing him into court. They keep, there's all these cases that they keep bringing up. They just lawsuit into oblivion. You know? It's, the whole thing is but it

4 (45m 53s):
Wild. but it just emboldens his followers though.

3 (45m 55s):
Yeah, it does. It has the exact opposite effect. I mean, it's a similar sort of playbook, you know, in a lot of ways to what they did during the pandemic where the more they attack him, the more people are like, what the fuck is true? Yeah. Because I don't believe you guys anymore. And when you're going after him, I kind of think that you're just doing this because you don't want him to win. And that's Banana Republic shit when you're prosecuting your political opponents specifically, because you don't want your political opponents to be able to make it to the vote. That's Banana Republic shit. That's that's

4 (46m 29s):
But that's what we're living in. Yeah. We have a a captured media system. We have a captured medicine system. Yeah.

3 (46m 37s):
We have education system

4 (46m 38s):
Captured. Education system. Yeah. Like, and we're Team America, world Police with bases all over the world. It's every country on the southern and, and the eastern border of Russia.

3 (46m 50s):
What I'm hoping is one of the things that's happened over the last few years specifically is the deterioration of the trust of media because of the access to information that people have now where it's just undeniable. At a certain point in time, they have to admit certain things like lab leak theory. They have to admit certain things. They're, they're avoiding like the plague. This all cause marca mortality increase. But enough people are aware of it. Enough people know people that have been vaccine injured enough people know people that have died. Enough people know young people that have had heart attacks where it's, there's enough suspicion and there's enough pause where people are reconsidering.

3 (47m 30s):
And then there's been this silent shift to the center of people that were like radically left friends of mine that I had Yeah. In California that were fucking so left, far left. And now they're like ready to vote Republican. They're literally ready to vote Republican. 'cause they don't want this anymore. 'cause they see where this is going. My hope is that with AI and with even more access to information, because the, the information just streams and it moves on and innovation moves on no matter what we do, that it's gonna get to a point where lying is virtually impossible. and I think that's where this kind of emergent technology leads us to, unless some other superpower gets a hold of it before we

4 (48m 14s):
Do. But don't you think one of the I agree with you a hundred percent. I I would just say with ai, haven't we seen enough examples already of some hardwired coding of information that is like a little bit woke?

3 (48m 28s):
Yeah, they, we have, we have But then there's Grok, which is Elon's ai, which is the opposite of that.

4 (48m 35s):
Is it? I haven't seen that. Yeah.

3 (48m 37s):
Yeah. I haven't used it either. But the idea is that it's supposedly the antidote to that. I think there's enough people that don't want that, and it just, as time goes on, look, even the fucking New York Times wrote a major story about detransition. So people that were convinced at an early age that they were trans, and now they're det transitioning and their lives are ruined, their bodies ruined. They can't have children anymore. They lost their breasts. They lost their penis is in fucking insanity. They just took insane. They just had a, an 8-year-old kid that was taken away from his father because the, the father doesn't want the boy to be on hormone blockers. And the mother does.

4 (49m 12s):
It was happening in Canada for a while now. Oh, yeah. Now I've seen some, some cases in the States, which is, this

3 (49m 17s):
Is what Jordan Peterson was warning people about in 2016 when I first met him. Yeah. And everybody was like, why do you care about what's happening in colleges? This is just fringe things that are happening in colleges. I'm like, those people are gonna graduate and they're gonna enter into the workforce. And it's a new mentality that exists. It's not a objective reality mentality. It's an ideologically based mentality that's gonna change the world at large. Unless we stop it in its tracks. Like they're not looking at reality. The fucking detransition thing, the fact that it's in the New York Times is big. But do you know why I mean? There's a whole story that somebody wrote about it. It's 'cause of trial lawyers. Everyone's going to get sued.

3 (49m 57s):
Yeah. And it's gonna be a big fucking problem because you have thousands of people that have, unfortunately given into this. Kids are extremely malleable. They're extremely easy to manipulate. They're extremely easy to influence. We've always known this. It's one of the reasons why you don't let children get tattoos. It's one of the reasons why you don't let children join the military. It's one of the reason why you don't let children have children. It's one of the reasons why we have ages of consent, because we know that they're not young enough. They're not, or they're, they're not smart enough. They're not old enough to make their own decisions. They can be manipulated. So if they could be manipulated that way, why the fuck would we think they can't be manipulated by this emerging market, which is gender care, this gender affirming care.

3 (50m 43s):
Have you ever seen the map of, like, gender care from 2007 versus 2022? Have you ever seen that? Yeah,

4 (50m 50s):
I saw it somewhere. Yeah. Here,

3 (50m 51s):
I, I can send it to you, Jamie, so you can take a look at it. But it's fucking bananas. It's a business. my friend, who is a doctor, told me that his friend, who is a plastic surgeon who moved into gender transition care, he told me the difference between what that person gets paid for an arthroscopic surgery versus what they get paid for a gender transition. I forget what the number was for arthroscopic surgery, but for the gender transition. He gets $70,000 every time he does this. And he goes, and this guy is raking it in. He's doing them all week.

4 (51m 24s):
It's, it's, it's so scary. and it's,

3 (51m 27s):
It's the, you know, the cure to all that ails for a lot of people, they think, oh, well, this is what's gonna fix me. I'm fucked up. Why am I fucked up? What's wrong with me? What's my problem? Oh, I'm really a girl. Or, oh, I'm really a boy.

4 (51m 41s):
And you know, kids wanna be, they don't wanna be an outsider. They want, you know, exactly the, it's kind of in vogue to be non-binary or whatever. The

3 (51m 50s):
30% of kids today recognize themselves either as trans, gay, bi, or non-binary. 30%. Now look at this. Yeah. The pediatric gender clinics in 2007, there was two. One was in Virginia, and one, it looks like it was in Massachusetts. And now look at them. They're all over the country. And this is in 2022. I mean, that's, that's crazy. The idea that this is just, they're recognizing there's a problem that didn't exist, that existed all the time, but wasn't being treated. That's nuts. That doesn't make sense. Especially when you're talking about children.

4 (52m 26s):
They're fucking kids. Yeah.

3 (52m 28s):
They're kids. They're kids. And there's a thing called Munchausen by proxy. Yeah. You know, where women, sick women will make their children ill, they will do it on purpose so that they get attention for their children. Be there's been women out there, evil, crazy people that have poisoned their children.

4 (52m 45s):
Yeah. I've seen a couple of the documentaries about it.

3 (52m 47s):
It's nuts. Yeah. It's a psychological disorder, just like gender dysphoria. It's a psychological disorder. It's always been listed as a psychological disorder. And now in 2024, everyone who is a man who thinks he's a woman is brave and amazing. No one's sick. So you're allowing people that are absolutely perverts and sex offenders to go into women's locker rooms with a heart on, and no one can say anything. And if you say something, they will protest your business and shut you down. There's no room for any nuance. There's no room for someone to say, Hey, listen. For some people, there's clearly this thing in them that makes them feel like they're in the wrong body.

3 (53m 31s):
And if we are compassionate, and if we are kind, we would want that person to be able to express themselves in any way they, they want. That makes them feel better. That helps everybody. But also, there's perverts, but also there's people that if they find out, all they have to do is pretend they're a woman and they can go in the women's locker room and watch women change. They'll do that too. You see, I'm sure you've seen the guy in Canada. Yeah. The 50-year-old man that identifies as a 15-year-old girl. Yeah. And got to change in the young girls' locker room and got to compete with these young girls. It's utter complete insanity.

4 (54m 4s):
Psychosis. Yeah.

3 (54m 6s):
Yeah. First of all, you're 50. You're not 15. Period. Period. That's, that's fucking, that's not negotiable. Yeah. You know, you, you live a certain amount of time, period. You can't say, I identify as a baby and then wear diapers and have everybody take care of you. That's fucking crazy. But the fact that they're letting that we are one step away from minor attracted persons being something that everybody's cool with, because that's also on the agenda. And every now and then, they sneak that out there. Every now and then, you'll see it in universities, see people talking about it. We have these, this is this one maligned group that has no support. Yeah. Minor attracted persons.

3 (54m 46s):
Yeah.

4 (54m 47s):
It's sick. It's

3 (54m 48s):
Sick. It's sick. It's sick. And the rest of the world is fucking laughing at us. Yeah. They're laughing at how crazy. Especially Russia. They think it's hilarious. They're laughing at how ridiculous.

4 (54m 57s):
I bet you Putin's probably gonna say something about that in this interview.

3 (55m 0s):
I hope he does. Yeah. And he would be right.

4 (55m 3s):
I just don't, I I, I, I don't know why they're just so hell bent on going after the kids. Obviously there's, I think it's money. There's huge money in it.

3 (55m 11s):
I think it's money. And it's also the, the waving the flag of woke. You know, I mean, it's just, it's, it's crazy. It's really weird.

4 (55m 20s):
It's really weird. But you, you've had people on, you talk about the development of the brain, right? Yes. And, and it, it's all the way to what,

3 (55m 25s):
25, 5 25 for men, young women develop earlier. They, they, they're, they get their shit together quicker. But we know that in real life, yeah. There's something about men. We don't get it. I mean. That's a lot. I mean. I, I think back to the time when I was 21. Yeah. I was fucking idiot. Yeah. Yeah. Just pumped up full of hormones and just driving too fast and doing stupid shit. Yeah. That's why they get young men to go to war. Yeah. They don't know any better. Yeah.

4 (55m 49s):
Yeah. Leave the kids alone. Leave the

3 (55m 51s):
Fucking kids alone. Especially, you know what's really hilarious? There's this guy that interviewed all these people and said, do you believe that it's okay to encourage young people to transition all these blue head, blue hair people like, yes, I do. To Catholicism. And they're like, no,

4 (56m 15s):
I

3 (56m 15s):
Love it. And they were doing the same thing with tattoos. Do you think 12-year-old is too, too young to get a tattoo? Yeah. They don't know any better. But what about change their gender? Yes. They know. Okay. It's just ideology, man. It's just like, it's, you might as well be a Scientologist. You might as well be a moonie. It's the same thing. Yeah. It's the same sort of religious, like thinking that exists in all sorts of groups of people that we call cults. But we don't want to call these hardcore leftist. We don't, we don't wanna call it a cult, but Mark Andreessen had a really good analysis of it on the podcast where he said, it has everything that every cult has. It has strict adherence to the rules. It has excommunication when you, when you, you get kicked out, how they, they fucking go after you.

3 (57m 1s):
And it's Dofasting socially, it's like all the same things that Scientology does. All the same things that a lot of other cults do. But we don't wanna look at it as a cult. Because you, you see the rainbow flag. You see the LBG. What is the two? The i, the a and the plus? What's the, I don

4 (57m 18s):
Don't know.

3 (57m 18s):
Some of 'em are asexual. I think they should stay the fuck out of it. If you're asexual, stay out of it. If you say you're asexual good. That's fine. That's why I believe it. I believe there's some people that are asexual. Stay out of it. Stay out of it. You're not in a maligned group. Nobody's fucking going after asexuals. Nobody. Like, nobody's discriminates against asexuals. So if they're in there, is that the a Yeah. Yeah. Fuck off Asexuals. Get the fuck outta here. Okay. What's the two Two-spirit. Oh, like Fox Kin. Yeah. That's me, bro. I got, I'm a Wolf Spirit. I know.

4 (57m 51s):
I know some, I think two-spirit has to do with Native

3 (57m 54s):
Americans. Oh, okay. I think, oh, look at it. The L-B-G-T-Q flag. It, it, it pulsates pulses. Yeah. Nice. Does any other flag pulsate?

4 (58m 2s):
No. don? Don't think so. Oh, here

3 (58m 3s):
We go. Two-spirit. Yeah. A modern pan Indian umbrella used by some indigenous North Americans to describe native people in their communities who fulfill a traditional third general Simon ceremonial and social role in their cultures. Yeah. But that's also, that's what the Lakotas had. So the Lakota recognized transgender people as someone who is a revered member of society, because they understood both men and women. You know, like, they also had something called the Hey Yoko, which was a sacred clown. They had this one guy who made fun, make fun of everything. 'cause if you couldn't make fun of things, they were bullshit. Right. And so they, that's the way they would test things. You get mad.

3 (58m 43s):
They're making fun of that. Oh, that's bullshit. You're bullshit. You know, like, if someone made fun of you for being really good at football, you'd be like, okay. Yeah. You can't make fun of that. Yeah. Like, what do you say all you want? You're not gonna hurt my feelings. Yeah. You know, you're Aaron Rogers, you're really fucking good at football. Like, if someone makes fun of that, it, but if someone made fun of, you know, your mustache and you're like, Hey man, fuck off. Like, oh, you got a problem with that mustache, You don. You think that mustache is stupid? And so that's how they would test things in their culture that were bullshit.

4 (59m 14s):
But that's why we need, we need comedy. Yes. To be able to I mean. That's what I've loved about South Park for so many years. Just

3 (59m 19s):
How they're the tip of the

4 (59m 20s):
Spear. Yeah. Just how they're able to like, go, Hey, yeah, society. What the fuck are we doing? Like they,

3 (59m 26s):
They're the best. Yeah. They're, they're a national treasure. They really are. They, no matter what, they can get away with it. They go so hard in the pain. I know.

4 (59m 34s):
I know. Oh my gosh. Where would we be

3 (59m 37s):
Without South Park? Ugh. I mean, where would we be without South Park for real? God damn. And how about the Simpsons? How about the Simpsons? Keep fucking calling

4 (59m 48s):
ITing everything. They predicted

3 (59m 50s):
The Apple Vision Pro. There's an old Simpsons episode where people are walking around with those goggles and they're falling into manholes. And now you're seeing people out there in the street swiping things and moving away and wearing these goggles on the street.

4 (1h 0m 3s):
I can't believe they got Trump on the escalator, though. That to me is one of the craziest ones when they got him walk riding the escalator down like he did in that one moment where I think he had just declared, declared for the presidency, and he kind of rode this elevator down. Yeah. How did this, and they had that do,

3 (1h 0m 17s):
Do you, this is what I think

4 (1h 0m 18s):
Time traveler.

3 (1h 0m 20s):
I don't think time traveler, but I think that if you are so into this one right here, here it is. Yeah. Look at this. They, they literally had Trump waving. It's the same photo. It's so crazy. God, that's so nuts. Oh, wait a minute. People think the Simpsons predicted Trump's Trump's win, but it's, what, what does that say, Jamie? On the right hand side, I don. What are they saying? It's not true. It's not true. Viral image, claiming to show scroll back up called the 2016 Electoral map, has nothing to do with Trump. The claim. The not only foresaw Donald Trump's run for President, but also predicted, which states he'd carry making the rounds as wrong. The claim is wrong.

6 (1h 1m 2s):
Oh, they're just saying they claim too much. I, I would believe, but that picture,

3 (1h 1m 5s):
But the picture is they had Trump coming down the escalator Yeah. Going too far. And he was going down the escalator and he did wave his right hand. I mean, like, the thing is, it's the same image. Like no matter what, the fact that he did that and they pre predicted it. I feel like some people, if you're intensely creative, and clearly those guys are, if you are constantly, you have your thumb on the pulse of satire and culture and where things are headed. I think you can see things. I think you get whispers from the Muse. I think the, the universe sends you messages. There's like, like there's been talk about that with the, in Diana PCA's book, American Cosmic.

3 (1h 1m 52s):
The, the, the

4 (1h 1m 53s):
First book. Jamie just gave me the wreck before he got here. He was

3 (1h 1m 56s):
Talking about it. She's fascinating. I'm gonna read that. Yeah. But in that book, she, the, the, one of the things that they go into is 2001 and the monolith like that, these, these a the whatever that is, that brings this monolith to these primitive primates. And they see this thing and this thing sort of represents where they're going to and what the future is. It's kind of, it's I mean. Some in the book, they theorize whether or not that's a, a television or it's a screen, or it's a cell phone, but it's this something that's pulling us towards it. And the Cubic recognized that. But Kubrick was a fucking Genius, like a real scary Genius.

3 (1h 2m 37s):
Like he would do complex mathematics in his spare time. And all of his movies were encoded with all this weird, like Easter eggy stuff. Like The Shining,

4 (1h 2m 47s):
Shining with the the Shirt.

3 (1h 2m 48s):
It's all about the Moon Landing. Yeah. Even the, the amount of miles to the Moon as the exact same number as the Room that was haunted. The kid wearing the NASA shirt. Yep. Like, there's so many things that people connect with the Moon Landing. And then the ultimate conspiracy theory was that Crick Fake the Moon Landing. Oh, that, yeah. That's the best one. I love that one. That's my favorite.

4 (1h 3m 14s):
Yeah. I like that one too.

3 (1h 3m 17s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 3m 17s):
Eyes Wide Shuts pretty,

3 (1h 3m 18s):
Pretty crazy. Oh my God. That is pretty crazy. Because back when Eyes Wide Shut first came out, everybody's like, well, that's not real. And then you hear about Epstein's Island, you're like, maybe it was, maybe there are parties like that. Well,

4 (1h 3m 29s):
There's a conspiracy that he was killed because of that movie. Really? You know, about this. So supposedly he showed the movie to the executives and they wanted him to take out 15 minutes of the movie. Everybody got kicked outta the theater. I mean, again, I don't, I'll probably get fact checked on this, but, and then a few days later, where'd you

3 (1h 3m 48s):
Read this? Was it a Reddit?

4 (1h 3m 50s):
Let's see. Come on.

3 (1h 3m 51s):
Here it is. Kubrick died of a heart attack six days after showing the final cut of Eyes Wide Shut to Warner Brothers making it the final film. He directed, he reportedly considered his greatest contribution to the art of cinema.

4 (1h 4m 1s):
Wow. But he supposed, he got into a yelling match with the executives about some of the stuff that was

3 (1h 4m 4s):
In it. Was he murdered because of Eyes Wide Shut? But what was, what was so egregious about that film that they would murder him though? I mean exposing too much

4 (1h 4m 17s):
Sex. Cults.

3 (1h 4m 17s):
Yeah. I don't trust Core. I don't trust any fact checking organizations anymore. A number of things

4 (1h 4m 22s):
At the Bottom died five days later. Oh, I mean that's nutty with that stuff. Stuff gets a little crazy. Yeah. But that's a crazy movie. The fact that he did, you know. Yeah. He kind of showed some that stuff. There's weird stuff like at the end of the movie too, when those two guys and come get, they come and get their daughter and stuff. There's Yeah. A lot of weird stuff.

3 (1h 4m 42s):
Well, that weird stuff. It used to be so easy to dismiss, but now, you know, it's the Alex Jones was Right Meme like, and you realize how many times that guy's been Right. Like Jesus Christ. Like how is he so good at predicting all these things that are happening? Because the guy's balls deep in it. All day long. Yeah. You could call him right now. It's like, I'm doing the documents. I'm, I'm reading the research right now. They're just sick. This is what they're doing. This is the plan. I talk to him all the time. We text each other every time something's crazy. I'll text him like, what is this? And he'll send me all these fucking documents

4 (1h 5m 12s):
He's talking about. I saw something he said the other day about, you know, you gotta gotta have you shit ready in case they

3 (1h 5m 21s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 5m 21s):
Turn the, turn the power off, turn the water off. Do something

3 (1h 5m 24s):
Like that. Well, there's a lot of people that think that, including me, because if I was a foreign government and I wanted to cripple America, I would kill the power grid. We'd go feral in two weeks. It would be chaos in two weeks. As soon as people don't have water and food and their children are starving, people go crazy. They start eating dogs. They start shooting deer in their neighborhood. And then that runs out. And then they, they realize they don't know how to keep food good. You know, when it's hot out, they don't know how to get water. They don't know how to treat water. It could get real bad real quick. We are not self-sufficient. Even remotely. There's a small pockets of human beings in this country. They're self-sufficient. But if you had to guess how many people could survive off grid if everything went haywire, it's like 1%.

3 (1h 6m 7s):
Which is probably what happens when there's a massive catastrophe once some, some sort of a global catastrophic event like a super volcano or something along those

4 (1h 6m 17s):
Lines. Another younger Dries

3 (1h 6m 19s):
Situation. Yeah. It's probably 1% of the people survive.

4 (1h 6m 21s):
That's probably what happened back then too.

3 (1h 6m 23s):
Yeah. Well, that's what I've always said is the reason why, if you go back, look at like ancient Egypt. Look at how insanely sophisticated they were. And if you subscribe to the Graham Hancock and Randall Carlson's perspective, which I do, which is that at one point in time there was an incredibly sophisticated society, probably more sophisticated than we are that lived in Africa, in Egypt. And that those people were probably in a different, different direction, but far more advanced than we are today. And then they were wiped out and then go after that. So that if you're talking about 11,000 years ago, 11,800 years ago, when they got wiped out and it just, you know, we're down to like 1% of the population.

3 (1h 7m 7s):
Think about what history looks like when you go back 4,000 years. 3000. It's fucking barbarians. Yeah. Just the most horrible instances of brutality and murder and chaos and what Genis Khan did and what the, the Mongols did and what I mean. The the pirates and the Crusades and all the fucking horrible shit that people did back then. Because those were the descendants of the people that were so barbaric that they survived. Those were the descendants of the 1% that made it through that catastrophe. And you had to be fucking horrible to do that. Yeah. You probably had to be horrible. You're probably killing your neighbors. Probably eating people.

3 (1h 7m 47s):
I mean what percentage of our population, if you go back 10,000 years ago, were cannibals. It's probably pretty high

4 (1h 7m 54s):
50. It's probably pretty high.

3 (1h 7m 56s):
If you had to do what you gotta do, we know what happens to the Donner party. We know what happens to people that get stuck on a boat. They're off at sea and one guy dies. They just start eating 'em. Yeah. We know that.

4 (1h 8m 5s):
The movie alive. Yeah.

3 (1h 8m 6s):
It's like always happens. Yeah, it always happens. and

4 (1h 8m 9s):
I wanna ask you a question about what you just said, but I didn need to take a piss.

3 (1h 8m 14s):
Oh, okay. Let's piss. Okay. We'll be, be right back folks. Okay. And we're back. Marshall. Come say hi. Come here. Go. Come on up here. Come on up here. Come here pal. Come say hi to everybody. You wanna be on camera? Come on. Yes sir. Come good. Hello buddy. Hello buddy. What you doing? You get sad when we're not here. He's the best. Is Carl Jamie?

4 (1h 8m 39s):
Did we figure that out? Carl? Jamie? Yeah.

3 (1h 8m 41s):
Oh. Oh crap.

4 (1h 8m 43s):
You wanna get Carl on camera?

7 (1h 8m 44s):
Sure.

3 (1h 8m 47s):
Marshall looks at Carl as an attention thief. He's like, that guy's gonna steal my attention. Have a

7 (1h 8m 52s):
Seat buddy.

6 (1h 8m 54s):
What was the question we were looking at though? Sorry, I had something

3 (1h 8m 56s):
Else. Oh, we're gonna look at whatever this fucking thing means under the Carl Schwab. Klaus Schwab photograph. Oh my. You know that wacky photograph that we have out there? It has something in Latin underneath it. I'm gonna send it to you. Okay. I sent it. He's standing at that podium dressed like Darth Vader. It's incredible. They're so out in the open with it. Yeah. It almost makes you feel like you're being punked.

6 (1h 9m 24s):
Sto ingenium virtuous. So it's like, I'll look it up. But

3 (1h 9m 31s):
Does this have something with virtue in science?

4 (1h 9m 33s):
Trust the science. Yeah.

3 (1h 9m 34s):
Trust the science.

4 (1h 9m 36s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 9m 36s):
Translation. You see the thing he said recently, we would no longer have to have elections. 'cause we can predict the results.

6 (1h 9m 44s):
Knowledge is the virtue of talent.

3 (1h 9m 47s):
Oh, huh.

6 (1h 9m 49s):
Direct translation though. What translation they're using could be a little different.

3 (1h 9m 53s):
Knowledge is the virtue of talent. Hmm. That's a fucking cone. That's like the sound of one hand clapping. Here's what I found out. College motto of Kano University of Technology in Lithuania. An act of honoring or something else. Hmm. Hmm. Okay. That fucking dude though, when he was literally, he was talking to one of the Google guys and he was saying that with these, the ability to predict things that will no longer need elections. Like, oh, how convenient.

4 (1h 10m 32s):
Why don't we just let you and the wf or the end just how convenient. Tell us who's gonna be in charge.

3 (1h 10m 38s):
That the fact that, that that is a, a place where people go by private jet. So they fly in these Jets to tell everybody that they gotta stop pumping out carbon.

4 (1h 10m 49s):
Yeah. Love it. Keep it up, man. But that's honestly, but that's the waking up is just the hypocrisy is everywhere. Yeah.

3 (1h 10m 57s):
It's everywhere.

4 (1h 10m 58s):
Eat fucking people who are telling us, cut your carbon footprint, don't grow your own food. Eat fucking insects. Stop eating meat. Yeah. It's like you don't, you're not adhering to any of this shit.

3 (1h 11m 9s):
No. Of course not. They were serving meat at the WEF Yeah. When people went there. Yeah.

4 (1h 11m 14s):
What I wanted to ask you before, 'cause I'm fascinated by Egypt, is when you had Randall and Graham on Randall alluded to technologies that I've actually done some research, even though you shouldn't do your own research. I've, I've done some research on and thought about how they move those fucking stones. And there's a lot of people with theories about using frequency Yeah. To be able to move the stones. And Randall mentioned on that podcast that he'd been working with a company for like seven years. Yeah. And that there was, technology was about to come out. There was actually somebody who did something similar in Florida, I believe, built a structure. Oh,

3 (1h 11m 50s):
The coral gables. Yeah. The coral castle route.

4 (1h 11m 52s):
Has anything come from that? Do you know?

3 (1h 11m 54s):
No, no. I mean, because

4 (1h 11m 58s):
They still can't, I mean they talk about, you know, slave labor or log rolling. But these mega ton, you know, stones that were used to build the pyramids, like what they say, how it was moved, and the time it would've taken. And the manpower to me is complete bullshit.

3 (1h 12m 16s):
It's also how far they had to take 'em through the mountains.

4 (1h 12m 18s):
Yeah. Where the quarries

3 (1h 12m 19s):
Were. No machinery. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's almost like, it's so immense and so incredible that it's, it's there as a reminder that something, something was different but

4 (1h 12m 34s):
Interesting that there's a, there's ancient technology like that that could have been

3 (1h 12m 37s):
Used. Yeah. I'm, I'm, I'm sure of it. You know, I'm sure they had something because they do find things that are indicative of drills.

4 (1h 12m 44s):
Diamond.

3 (1h 12m 44s):
Diamond tip drills. Yeah. 'cause they have cord in a way that had to be insanely high speed diamond tip drills that corded into

4 (1h 12m 52s):
We can,

3 (1h 12m 52s):
We can barely

4 (1h 12m 53s):
Do to it. Barely do. Yeah.

3 (1h 12m 54s):
Yeah. And then it's the, just the sheer mass I mean the amount of stones, 2 million, 300,000 stones in the great pyramid. And, you know, they're, they're perfectly aligned at true north, south, east, and west. It's just the whole thing about the quarries being hundreds of miles away. The whole thing is nuts. It's not primitive people. It's super advanced people that did that. And it's super advanced. People that lived in a society that's very different than what we think of as existed 10,000 plus years ago.

4 (1h 13m 21s):
Well, speaking of the super advanced society, what do you think about, have you looked into the tar

3 (1h 13m 27s):
Stuff at all? Yeah, I was watching a video today about it. Yeah. It's a lot

4 (1h 13m 31s):
Of, I think that's pretty fascinating though.

3 (1h 13m 33s):
Yeah. It is fascinating that there was an advanced society, but there's also a lot of kooks, a lot of kooks involved in that. Yeah. But I think that everything

4 (1h 13m 41s):
Though, and I think that's, that's some of the Yeah. Maybe some of that's controlled to keep people from Exactly. Looking at some of that stuff. Sure. But if you look at the world, the world's fair of the 19 hundreds, there's some really weird shit around that. Like, what about the structures that they built over them, they were supposed to take down in some of these cities about some of the technologies that were used in some of the, the architecture and how some of that architecture isn't standard with many of the other buildings of the same era. What they're doing on top with free energy, possibly on some of these buildings. Hmm. It's pretty wild stuff.

3 (1h 14m 12s):
So like free energy, like Tesla. What, what Tesla. Like

4 (1h 14m 15s):
They were able to extract energy from the atmosphere that electricity for, for everybody. I think they had, and you can maybe bring something up, Jamie, but they had, I believe they had mercury in these, was it copper kind of balls on top of the buildings. And they were, they figured out a way to extract energy just from the, from the air. Really? Yeah.

3 (1h 14m 41s):
So where'd you read this?

4 (1h 14m 43s):
Just online. It's a lot of, a lot of interesting comments about it. A

3 (1h 14m 48s):
Lot of nuttiness. Marshall. Get outta there, buddy. There's,

4 (1h 14m 50s):
There's a lot. I think there's a shred of truth. And, and

3 (1h 14m 53s):
He went over there and stole Carl's toy. He did. You little thief. How dare you buddy.

4 (1h 14m 57s):
Jamie, you gonna back me up on some of this tar

3 (1h 14m 59s):
I'm trying to find out. Yeah, he's gonna try to find it. Come on. Is there like a really good, reliable source of tarter information? I

4 (1h 15m 5s):
Haven't, I mean, wouldn't Graham be be one? Has he?

3 (1h 15m 10s):
I don't know if he's into that. So what is the theory? The theory is that even more recently? That

4 (1h 15m 14s):
There was more recent. Yeah.

3 (1h 15m 17s):
An advanced stream.

4 (1h 15m 18s):
The theory is there was, there was an advanced civilization that had certain technologies and that some of the recent history is bullshit. And that the world's fair built structures over the top of these. Well,

6 (1h 15m 31s):
Some of the world's fair stuff can be explained by like, like universal studio style. Like it's Right. It was just facades right to look. But they were covering certain buildings. 'cause there were, people were coming to see stuff. That's just some of it though.

3 (1h 15m 45s):
The Q anon of architecture.

4 (1h 15m 46s):
Of course. Anytime you wanna describe, just put fucking Q Anon

3 (1h 15m 50s):
Or Maga Q Anon or maga. Those are great. 1908 artist or architect or earnest flag completed the singer building in lower Manhattan. A bow arts showstopper made for the singer sewing machine company from a wide based a slender 27 story tower. Rose topped with a mansard roof and a delicate lantern spire. Every inch drip with sumptuous detail inside and out. Vaulted roofs, marble columns with bronze trim window mullins with spiral. don don't even know what a mulian is with spiral fluting. The lobby was said to have a celestial radiance, a book written about its construction for a year. It was the tallest building in the world at 612 feet.

3 (1h 16m 32s):
And a celebrated landmark for decades after that. But not too much longer, despite its great height. The pencil thin tower lacked office space in the 1960s. The company sold it. Its ornate Headquarters demolition proceeded in 1967. It's the tallest building to ever be peacefully demolished, peacefully interesting. By any account. It's a fantastic tale. Once the tallest building in the world and New York City icon knocked down in just a handful of decades.

4 (1h 16m 57s):
It's like the part of the bottom here that adherence to the theory. Believe. Yeah. Blah, blah, blah.

3 (1h 17m 2s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 17m 2s):
So you need to find something about, about the top of these buildings, what they had.

3 (1h 17m 6s):
Tarter rises, tarter themed content is produced for YouTube videos that get picked over, over on Reddit. Our, I'm sorry. Our tarter architecture sub, which began in 2018. December has 3,300 members. Though not everyone who posts in comments appears to be a true believer, a larger and more general sub that appeared around the same time. R Tarter has 8,700 members as conspiracy theories go. Tarter remains obscure. Twitter user Cinema shoebox brought it to many people's attention last year with this thread. A pseudoscience debunking writer, Brian Dunning. Oh, I remember Brian.

3 (1h 17m 46s):
Remember that guy Recently devoted an episode of his podcast, step Skepto to the tarter story, which appears to have emerged in 2016 and 2017. Tarter story.

4 (1h 17m 60s):
This is where Yeah. Then they tie in the, it's explaining a lot of drone and stuff, but I wanna find the energy stuff that

3 (1h 18m 7s):
He was asking about.

4 (1h 18m 7s):
Yeah. I just think that the architecture is pretty fascinating. Some of these scroll

3 (1h 18m 12s):
Back up big cities here. Just you went a little too fast there. Yeah. This guy wrote slightly more. I think it was one Worldwide Civilization says Joaquin's scar. A 26-year-old Norwegian who runs a tar meltdown YouTube channel. It was all based on unity, oneness, peace, love, and harmony. Okay. Which we don't see in today's society. Well, that is very utopian. Sure. I'd love to believe that that was the case.

4 (1h 18m 39s):
It's an interesting, interesting idea.

3 (1h 18m 42s):
Well, there was probably some technology that got squashed because competitors didn't want people to use it. I mean, that's the whole theory about the electric or the water car. Remember that one guy? Oh yeah. That created the water based car. And then he he got whacked. Yep. He yelled out. They poisoned me. Ran outta the restaurant and died. Yeah. Yeah. I mean if I was an oil company and I was evil and some Fuckhead came along and developed a car that runs on tap water, I'd be like, what?

4 (1h 19m 10s):
Wasn't there a guy or whack that guy in Buffalo as well, who was a part of that shooting, who had developed a technology really to, to for clean drinking water.

3 (1h 19m 23s):
He was a part of what shooting?

4 (1h 19m 24s):
There was a supposed random shooting that happened in Buffalo. He was,

3 (1h 19m 30s):
I believe he was what? So what technology. And

4 (1h 19m 31s):
He had created some sort of filtration system to provide clean drinking water. Jamie, I need some backing on this. I don't,

3 (1h 19m 41s):
I vaguely remember this too. Hang on. These are so fun. Wacky conspiracies are so fun. They're so fun. Whenever I talk to Sam Tripoli, I just have a big smile on my face. Sam Sam's the master of these things. But there's, he's the first one to introduce me to tarter.

4 (1h 19m 54s):
There's too many that, you know, like the guy, the water, the water car, like

3 (1h 20m 0s):
The water car's a wild one because where's that technology? Like what happened with that? How come nobody, nobody figured that out.

4 (1h 20m 7s):
But I believe there was one before that too. Like in the early 19 hundreds as

3 (1h 20m 12s):
Well. Well, they did have steam powered engines. Yeah. Steam powered engines have always existed. And essentially those run on water. Right. But I think they, I think if I wanna say they were powered by coal, if I remember correctly. Like the coal and then the coal boiled the water and the steam. I don't remember though. But if, if that happens, like there was a documentary that existed in, oh God, it was like the nineties or the early two thousands called Who Killed the electric Car. Do you remember that? Yeah. Well now. Alright buddy. Now the electric car is everywhere. So like some technologies you can't keep down. But if it wasn't for Elon Musk, how long would it take before we figured out an electric car?

3 (1h 20m 54s):
You know, I mean Elon was a part of Tesla early on and Tesla's been around I mean. I remember the first time I saw a Tesla, God, I feel like it, it was like early two thousands. I think Bill Maher was probably the first one that I saw driving one of those. He had one that said, fuck opec, I think was his, I think that was his license plate. I think that was Bill I know there was definitely a Tesla that was around Bill. Hilarious LA Yeah. Yeah. He's one of the rare liberals that pushes back and gets attacked for it pushes back on some of the crazy nonsense. And especially

4 (1h 21m 33s):
I think he, he's able to just call things what they are. Yeah. He's able, I think. Or as

3 (1h 21m 36s):
He sees 'em at least. Yeah. But

4 (1h 21m 37s):
Yeah, we're able to, we're so in the, in our bubble of identity politics where if you're on one side you gotta only puppet, you know, specific narratives where he's kinda like, no, I don't know if this doesn't make sense to me.

3 (1h 21m 48s):
So. Well he's at the, his heart he's a comic. Yeah. And comics generally, especially good ones, generally resist these cultural trends toward ideological thinking. 'cause they're like, wait a minute. That's why like, the woke comedians are all terrible because like, to adhere to that ideology, like without any change at all, without any pushback at all, it's preposterous. And to be a comedian, you're always pushing back. You're pushing back on everything. All the societal norms, all the things that are taboo, all the things that are Bazar that you can't discuss. Comedians are always bringing up the things that people are talking about that they don't have a seat buddy.

4 (1h 22m 27s):
But we need that. We need that inside. Otherwise

3 (1h 22m 29s):
It's the hika. Yeah. It's the sacred clown of society. And it's, it, they're the only ones that are allowed to do that between them and the Simpsons. And you know, there's a, a few people that are allowed to, you know, publish literature that's in that, in that direction. But for the most part, most people are scared. Most people don't wanna lose their jobs. They don't want to be exiled from their communities. They don't wanna be outta their friend group, like you were saying about just the vaccine. Just as simple medical decision would alienate a va I mean there's a lot of people that I'd lost friends with the same as you. I'm just not friends with 'em anymore. Yeah. They attacked me during the pandemic. And a lot of 'em I've seen since then, they've apologized and I forgive them. But I'm never gonna trust you again.

3 (1h 23m 9s):
If shit goes sideways, you know, you're, you fold, you fold too quick. You're not a critical thinker. You're not someone who goes, Hey, maybe this isn't all what I'm being told. And if you don't know the history of Fauci, and if You don't know the history of the NIH, please read Robert Kennedy's book, the Real Anthony Fauci. Please read it. Even if you think Robert Kennedy's a kook. Because by the way I did, I used to think he was his anti-vax kook. Because I was, and I and I apologized to him when I first met him. and I had him on the podcast. I told him, I go, I have to be honest with you, when I first heard of you, all I had heard was the narrative. The narrative that they have so successfully spun that he is this anti-science anti, you know, whatever conspiracy theorist that is, you know, the embarrassment of the Kennedy family.

3 (1h 23m 57s):
And that's, that was the narrative. Oh, this crazy guy. And then all these people that I trust that are brilliant, like one of one of my friends is a PhD. He said, Genius. He's like, you must read this book. I'm like, really? He goes, just please read the book just for the facts. 'cause regardless of what you think about that guy read the book. So I was like two paragraphs in before I called him. I was like, what the fuck is this shit real? How much of this is real?

4 (1h 24m 23s):
Well, he has got sued.

3 (1h 24m 25s):
Yeah. He hasn't got sued.

4 (1h 24m 26s):
And then you gotta read dissolving illusions.

3 (1h 24m 29s):
Yes, I read that as well. That's a mindblower, right? Wow. That's a Mindblower. Yeah. Yeah. Aaron Salter Jr. Was killed by a mass shooter because he was working on creating a water powered car engine. Oh, that's what

6 (1h 24m 41s):
He was a of fact fact check on it. What's very interesting in this is that it, this is false. Well, so it says that, right. But then I was reading through it, it's saying that there's no truth that he was killed because of that work. Which don don't know how you would know that. It says,

3 (1h 24m 56s):
But he was working on a water powered car. It's true that Salter was working on a water powered working to power vehicles with water. But there's no evidence that work made him a target in a mass shooting. Could be just a coincidence. Yeah.

6 (1h 25m 8s):
He was working as a security guard at that grocery store. But, but there's a video from a couple months before where he's showing his work on a car like

3 (1h 25m 15s):
News. This is racially news. He was on motivated hate crime though. Right. I mean, didn't the guy admit that it was a racially motivated hate crime? Now that, was he black was the guy who got killed black as well? Or did this guy kill everybody that was at the grocery store? I, and it was racially motivated. I

6 (1h 25m 29s):
Don't don don't know the details of the shooting off the top.

4 (1h 25m 37s):
Yeah. Again, it's just interesting.

3 (1h 25m 39s):
It's all interesting. Well, there's also Turing candidates. Like if you go back to the MK Ultra days and you go back to Oh,

4 (1h 25m 46s):
You think those have stopped?

3 (1h 25m 47s):
I do not think they have stopped. No. No. I think they've become much more sophisticated now. 11

6 (1h 25m 50s):
Or black two or white of the 13 people that were

3 (1h 25m 54s):
Shot and his name is Marcus d Morrison.

6 (1h 25m 56s):
That No, no, no. I was looking up the people to find out who exactly was the one. and it was this guy, Aaron

3 (1h 26m 0s):
Salter. Aaron Salt was the one, was the security guard. So get a photograph of Aaron Salter. Lets find out. I think he, I think he's a black man.

6 (1h 26m 6s):
That's who I was talking about with this.

3 (1h 26m 8s):
Yeah. Right. But I mean is, is there a photo of him? We could find out if he's black or white? No, he is black. Yeah, he is black. Okay. Well, I mean there are, look, mind control experiments have been documented. They've existed since the 1940s, 1950s, 1960s. MK Ultra, a great example of that. I bring it up all the time, but it's an amazing book. Tom O'Neill's book, chaos on the Manson Family murders. The Manson family murders were almost absolutely a CIA operation that went sideways. What they did was they got that guy, they got him when he was in prison, jolly West visited him in prison.

3 (1h 26m 50s):
and it seems like they coached him on mind control using LSD. It was well known that he would give them LSD and not take it himself. And he was coercing them, convincing them, hypnotizing them fucking with their mind and getting them to commit murders. And they kept letting Manson out every time they caught him. And the, the sheriffs that would let him out would say, it's above my pay grade. They were told to let him out. So he had violated parole multiple times. He had been connected to murders and they still kept letting him out. They wanted him out there because that was how they were gonna discredit the anti-war movement. There's the same thing that they did with the sweeping psychedelics acts of 1970. The reason why they did it wasn't because psychedelics were a real problem, was because it was a great way to target civil rights activists.

3 (1h 27m 34s):
It was a great way to target the Black Panthers. A great way to target any anti-war people. Because those people were all involved with psychedelic drugs. So you would cut their supply off, arrest the people that were involved in it, find them, get them, prosecute them, make things that people had used since the beginning of time. Like psilocybin, turn them into schedule one terrible drugs that are a scourge of humanity. Meanwhile, you're pushing Vicodins and Valiums and, and fucking Oxy antidepressants and oxys and all, all the shit that we know is not schedule one that's out there right now on the streets. And that's real. So if we know that they did that, they operated the Hate Ashbury Clinic in the 1960s, which by the way, my wife's mom used to go to that You met today.

3 (1h 28m 17s):
Yeah. She, she was a hippie in the 1960s. I knew I liked her. And she lived in Haight Ashbury and she used to go to the Haight Ashbury Clinic, which was run by the CIA. Wow. They fucking ran a clinic. They ran a flu, a free clinic. And Manson was a regular visitor to that place. And this is, these are the same people that also ran Operation Midnight Climax where they ran brothels. And they would give the johns, they would come in to mingle with the prostitutes. They'd give them LSD and study them through two-way mirrors. Wow. This is the fucking, this is our government. Our government was like running all kinds of wild studies on human beings and how to manipulate them and how to use psychedelic drugs, specifically LSD, to influence their mind.

3 (1h 29m 1s):
Also, Ted Kozinski, Ted Kozinski was a part of that program that was out of Harvard. He was one of those people that got dosed up with LSD and they did all sorts of horrific psychological tests on him and studies and all these weird experiments where they would humiliate him and torture him. And then the guy went on to decide that technology was gonna be the end of mankind and he needed to kill all the people that were creating technology. Meanwhile, he's probably right. He was probably right. Yeah. On acid. He probably saw where all this technology is going. Oh my God, if we keep going, this will be the end of the human race. It'll take us over and it'll be our demise. and I have to stop this. You know, he's obviously fucking insane.

3 (1h 29m 41s):
But also obviously a part of a mind control experiment Gone terribly wrong or terribly right.

4 (1h 29m 49s):
Yeah. and it started out of, you know, what they did in Operation Paperclip? Yeah.

3 (1h 29m 54s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 29m 55s):
When they figured out, out what the hell they were doing over there. Yeah. And gave them a lot of them government jobs, high paying jobs, putting the head of NASA turn Yeah. Turning into the CIA and Yeah. Alan Dulles working his backdoor stuff with Prescott Bush into the ccia. Yeah. Getting fired by JFK. Very interesting connections. Yeah. All the way down.

3 (1h 30m 20s):
Yeah. It's, there's a dark history, a really dark history to these organizations of what they've done and the amount of manipulation that they were successful at. It's pretty, pretty wild stuff. Still

4 (1h 30m 32s):
Do

3 (1h 30m 32s):
And have to still be doing it. Why would they abandon something that's so successful after he shot Lee Harvey Oswald? Jack Ruby's psychosis was diagnosed by the same CIA doctor had once killed an elephant with psychedelics. That's Jolly West Lewis, jolly West figure. Equally infamous for allegedly killing an elephant with LSD and for his work in L MK Ultra. The Central Intelligence Agency's infamous interrogation, hypnosis and mind control program. An analysis of available documents from the CIA's declassified archives and the recovered MK Ultra file shows. Not only did Wes want to continue his work with the agency during the period he was treating Ruby, Jesus, the, the university he researched at, thought that's exactly what he was doing.

3 (1h 31m 18s):
Yeah. He went to visit Jack Ruby in the hospital and Jack Ruby freaked out and was saying that they were killing Jews and Satan was here and he was hiding under the bed. Like he went nuts. And there was no indication that before that meeting that he was ever in some sort of a fragile psychic state or some sort of a fragile mental condition where he would just go nuts like that. Like this was just all after Jolly West visited him. of course Jolly West dosed him up. Of course. of course. Why wouldn't I mean? How did they even convince him to go shoot Lee Harvey Oswald like that? And how did, how did no one check people for guns? How'd they wheel out this guy who's probably the, the most important defendant in the history of Well,

4 (1h 32m 3s):
They changed the formation walking out and they probably allowed him to enter through the loading dock. 'cause he was

3 (1h 32m 9s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 32m 10s):
Juiced in with some of the people and the, you know, we

3 (1h 32m 13s):
Have that photo out here too. Yep. It's in the hallway walking shot. Yeah. Walk in. There's Jack Ruby getting shot. Or Lee Harvey. Lee Harvey Oswald getting shot by Jack

4 (1h 32m 21s):
Ruby. Well, that I mean that whole thing is is wild. I mean, it's so, it just goes so fucking deep. It

3 (1h 32m 28s):
Goes so deep. And you're seeing it right now with Trump.

4 (1h 32m 31s):
Why the fuck haven't they released the files?

3 (1h 32m 34s):
Why haven't they released any of the files? Why, why is all the covid information kept for 75 years? Why is that stuff locked up forever?

4 (1h 32m 42s):
What? Why does nobody give a fuck about that?

3 (1h 32m 44s):
It's not that they don't give a fuck. They don't, there's too much, there's too much to pay attention to. There's climate change, there's UFOs, there's Ukraine, there's Hamas, there's terrorist cells open. I think we

4 (1h 32m 53s):
Just sent some more border. We just sent some more money. I think

3 (1h 32m 56s):
That's

4 (1h 32m 56s):
What it is to Ukraine.

3 (1h 32m 57s):
Yeah. The b meanwhile, this border bill that they just, they're trying to pass 80% of the money does not go to the border.

4 (1h 33m 5s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 33m 8s):
What a great idea, guys. It's not like there's a crisis of people coming in. Good job. We have no idea who these people are. What is

4 (1h 33m 13s):
The whole bullshit about wanting to cut the, cut the fucking fence and I don't know. And Abbott's sending the, you know, the

3 (1h 33m 22s):
Don don't know, but here's some more, some more bullshit. A lot of this is, it seems like it's manufactured on both sides because there was a gentleman who went down to the border and I saw this, said all, all y'all are talking about, oh, there's a fucking fight about the holes in the border. Let me show you how many holes in the border there are. Like what they're talking about is blocking this one thing. You can go a half a mile this way and there's an open door half a mile this way, there's another open door. It's like, it's wide open. All they would have to do is go further down that way. So's just a

4 (1h 33m 51s):
Fucking talking point just to sting the one side, the

3 (1h 33m 54s):
End. I would imagine that it is a, a great point of contention that is used as a political volleyball and they're just knocking it over the fence back and forth towards each other. But

4 (1h 34m 5s):
The real problem is like, wasn't there a guy that's on a terrorist watch list that's on that, that they had Yeah. That said, you'll know who I am.

3 (1h 34m 12s):
Yeah. Not just one. That was one guy. But they've caught guys. They've caught guys have come and there's a lot have come through lot,

4 (1h 34m 19s):
You know, those like of age, you know, military age individuals

3 (1h 34m 24s):
Come, but come out. But you dismiss some of that because those are the people that they send because those are the young people that can get jobs that can send money back home. I understand. To people that are deeply impoverished. Yeah. I I, and look, I get it, man. and I think you probably are the same way. If you were living in Guatemala on a dirt floor and they told you that if you go to America, they give you free food and they put you up at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York City, give

4 (1h 34m 43s):
You a thousand dollars credit card.

3 (1h 34m 45s):
And if you beat up cops, they let you go.

4 (1h 34m 48s):
That's fucking

3 (1h 34m 49s):
Crazy. They beat the shit out of two cops and they no bail. Just right out.

4 (1h 34m 53s):
And you see 'em walking out.

3 (1h 34m 54s):
Yeah. Give 'em the two box. Yeah. Give the double fingers to the camera. Yeah. The whole thing is wild. And it's almost like there's a a, an engineered decision. Like it's a decision to destroy so much of what makes America great.

4 (1h 35m 9s):
Well, there's one individual who's worked pretty damn hard at that. George Soros.

3 (1h 35m 15s):
Oh yeah. He's a fascinating character.

4 (1h 35m 17s):
He fascinating. He spent millions of dollars, billions,

3 (1h 35m 20s):
Billions, billions of dollars. Billions

4 (1h 35m 21s):
Of dollars on local elections.

3 (1h 35m 23s):
Yeah. On local das including the DA in, in Austin. Yeah.

4 (1h 35m 28s):
I mean California. That's a big problem. The people are, you know, theft, crazy theft and getting let out. Same day. The committed crimes getting let out. There's no prosecution. There's no nothing.

3 (1h 35m 38s):
Yeah. and it seems to be a decision, a conscious decision to destroy things. And I don't know what the end game is. I don't know what they're trying to do.

4 (1h 35m 47s):
Well, destabilization. Yeah,

3 (1h 35m 49s):
I would imagine

4 (1h 35m 50s):
I mean, I think that's like a deep conspiracy about the deep state and the cabal and people pulling the strings. Yeah. But I think that's, you know, that's why if there is a way that RFK could get elected, you know, to me that's, that's where the hope starts. That things can get Yeah. Can change and get better. But

3 (1h 36m 7s):
Is it even possible? Is there a real path for an independent to become the president?

4 (1h 36m 14s):
Well, if, if,

3 (1h 36m 15s):
Because the Trumpers are not gonna vote for RFK, the Trumpers are gonna vote for Trump. And that's a giant percentage of the population that is not really hip to what RFK is talking about. And they like him over bidet, but they don't like him over Trump. And Trump is their man. Trump is the guy that's been in there before. He understands how it works when you, you see what he was doing in terms of the economy was doing much better. We weren't involved in all these world conflicts. You know, whether, whether you like him like Chamath from Facebook, what was this guy's name? How do you say his name again? No idea. Say brilliant guy who was doing this thing. He was saying the right message, but the wrong messenger. Like Trump's policies were good, but coming from him, nobody wanted to listen to it.

3 (1h 36m 57s):
But the things that he was talking about with dereg, deregulation, things he was talking about in terms of dealing with international conflicts. And he was right. He was right about how to handle lysis. He was right about a lot of these things. But the people that believe in him, they're not gonna vote for anybody else. They're all in on Trump. And they think that's

4 (1h 37m 16s):
Yeah. Gonna be the same. What if it's weaken at Bernie's Nick Haley and

3 (1h 37m 20s):
RFK

4 (1h 37m 21s):
Jr. RFK Jr.

3 (1h 37m 22s):
Well, if that happens, RF K's got a chance if that happens. But there's a lot of dummies out there that they think that Nikki haley's the solution. No. And she's not. No, there are a lot. And I've seen a lot of like left wing pundits that are talking up Nikki Haley.

4 (1h 37m 37s):
Well, they don't want Trump.

3 (1h 37m 37s):
That's no, they don't want Trump. But also they

4 (1h 37m 39s):
Went to New Hampshire and voted in the primary to Yeah.

3 (1h 37m 42s):
Yeah. It's all fucking wild, man. It's just politics

4 (1h 37m 46s):
Is, it's like you said, I mean unless you take the money out. Yeah. We're we're fucked. We're fucked it a two party system. Yeah. It's gonna be the same bullshit. You can't, I don't know why, tell me why election day isn't a national holiday and why is it racist to say you have to have some form of identification?

3 (1h 38m 5s):
Yeah. It doesn't make any sense.

4 (1h 38m 7s):
Why can't you have a day? It's a fucking national holiday. Everybody go vote. We're gonna tally it up on the same day. We have some faith in the voting machines. You know, unless you're a veteran overseas, there's no mail-in ballots or unless you're, you know, you can't, you, you're, you're bedridden to some extent.

3 (1h 38m 27s):
Jamie, I'm gonna send you something that's hilarious. I love memes.

4 (1h 38m 30s):
They're the best.

3 (1h 38m 31s):
Memes are my favorite thing of all time. But this one I saw this one that made me laugh so hard.

4 (1h 38m 36s):
Was it from Tom?

3 (1h 38m 36s):
No, no, no. This one wasn't from Tom. This one's just from randomly from the internet. But it's so perfect. Don't let Trump cheat demand voter ID and paper ballots. Don't let Trump cheat. It's so funny. The internet is so funny. They're so funny.

4 (1h 38m 57s):
It's undefeated.

3 (1h 38m 58s):
Oh my God. They're so good. It's undefeated. They're so good. We need them. God damnit, we need them. Thank God they exist. Thank God that they weren't able to fucking put a a stop to that They weren't, weren't able to put a stop to people just talking shit and, and posting and doing whatever they want. Shit posting.

4 (1h 39m 14s):
They tried.

3 (1h 39m 14s):
They tried. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think they ever saw this coming though. I think when they, when they first rolled out the internet in the late eighties, early nineties, I think they had no fucking idea what this was gonna be. If they did, they would've stopped it right away. Don't

4 (1h 39m 27s):
You think? It's interesting when you look back at like the idea of an Atlantis society, an atlantian society, or even, you know, this silliness about the Tor when there was a point where there wasn't technology. Yeah. And as it starts to filter in, you have decisions to be made on which direction to go. And we seemed to take all of our technology into the form of business and profits. What about a society that would take it in a different direction? You know, I think a lot about, about Tesla, right? And the, and the inventions that he had and, and his idea about, about a society. And there's been some interesting comments about the type of society we would live in had some of his inventions and, you know, the rivalry between him and Edison.

4 (1h 40m 15s):
But like a society that isn't driven strictly on profits and right. Advancement.

3 (1h 40m 22s):
The problem is innovation requires dedication and ambition. And oftentimes dedication and ambition is driven by profits.

4 (1h 40m 32s):
I understand. And competition has never, it's always been a part of things. But, but how many times in the history of this world? 'cause as Graham talks about, there could be hundreds of thousands of, of years in multi younger dryas Yeah. Events, you know, how many times did we get to this point? You know, was, was there other societies that they weren't strictly motivated by profits and, you know, advancement and competition in the form of division that actually figured the shit out?

3 (1h 41m 2s):
Well, that would be, if you had a time machine, if you could exist in like a, like a bullet proof, proof sphere that was invisible to all the people around you, and just observe a time I would want to observe Egypt in its prime

4 (1h 41m 17s):
Same,

3 (1h 41m 18s):
I just would go, what did, what were you guys doing? What were they doing? Like, what was it like?

4 (1h 41m 23s):
I need one of these jellyfish UAPs that they showing and go back.

3 (1h 41m 28s):
That one is the least interesting to me.

4 (1h 41m 30s):
How come?

3 (1h 41m 31s):
I just don't, I'm not interested in it. It just doesn't seem like anything. It's flying around. It just goes in the water, comes outta the water. Like, okay. Like, so

4 (1h 41m 40s):
What, which ones do you like?

3 (1h 41m 42s):
I like the ones that move off at insane rates of speed. And that like the tic-tac one, the tic-tac one. I was watching this documentary on it the other day and they were saying that, that the footage was released because it wasn't supposed to be released. Someone recorded it. Someone recorded the FLIR footage off of it. Yeah. Yeah. And someone released it. And if it wasn't for that video footage that people have tried to debunk and they tried to come up, but whatever the fuck that thing is, it's showing no visible means of propulsion. It moves off at an insane rate of speed. It's documented on radar. It's documented by eyewitness accounts from multiple Jets. It's documented by the, the instrumentation that's in the Jets.

3 (1h 42m 22s):
They saw this thing, they know that this thing is operating in some way, that we have no idea how to do that using conventional propulsion methods. And they said that this, it's a much longer video that what they got was only a small piece of it. And that there's actually much more of it that the government has whatever the fuck that thing is. Like that. To me, those are the kind of UFOs I'm fascinated by. Something that can go from above 50,000 feet above sea level to 50 feet in less than a second. Like, what is that? What is that? Is that ours? Do we, is that why it's always near military bases? Is that why it's over in San Diego off the coast of the Nimitz, where the Nimitz was, was at?

3 (1h 43m 4s):
Is that why it's over in the East coast where they have restricted airspace? Is that why these things are always in these places? Is it ours? I mean? If I had some sort of a super sophisticated drone technology that is a above and beyond what we think of in terms of what's technologically available today, I would say it's UFOs too. I would say, you know, we've out of this world craft.

4 (1h 43m 31s):
Yeah, yeah. But don't you, some of that is reverse engineered stuff. Could

3 (1h 43m 36s):
Be Right?

4 (1h 43m 37s):
That's what it could be says be.

3 (1h 43m 39s):
Yeah. Or there could be a branch of physics. This is what Eric Weinstein has theorized and the way he talks about, it's, it's quite brilliant. And he talks about this one particular college in New York, one particular university that has an insane physics department, and it's also connected to this hedge fund that does like Bernie Madoff numbers that like, don't seem to make sense, but, so that would be a great way to get money for these things. And that you have this insane physics department. So you have these people, they, if you talk like, that's one of the things that Diana Salka talked about in her book, about the people that are documented, that are involved in these crash retrieval programs and supposedly involved in these back engineering programs. The, the amount of secrecy and their adherence to secrecy is spectacular.

3 (1h 44m 23s):
And this idea that people can't keep secrets. The fuck they can't. Yeah. People who could be keep secrets. They,

4 (1h 44m 28s):
What do you, what do you, what do you think is the ultimate reason for that? Because there's a lot of ideas on why they can't release it, because like Roswell and there's been a number of different types of roswell's, which whether that was ETS that we interacted with, whether there's some sort of alliance between other, you know, alien extraterrestrial racism. What, what do you think is the major fear around not releasing that?

3 (1h 44m 52s):
Well, I think there's a bunch of fears. First of all, someone has gotta be held responsible for misallocation of funds. So let's say that you have defense spending, you have some private company, which is by the way, which they all think it's private companies that are involved in defense companies that are involved in this research. Like

4 (1h 45m 13s):
The Lockheed more into

3 (1h 45m 14s):
The world. Yeah. Yeah. Which are much better at keeping secrets, right. You know, than the, the government is. And that if you have misallocation of funds and you've lied to Congress, like someone goes to jail for that, you could, we're talking about laundering essentially could be hundreds of millions, if not billions and billions of dollars over decades. So who made these decisions? Did they make these decisions? Did did Congress not know about it? So if they didn't know about it, they're gonna wanna know about it. And if they find out that you've been lying to them all this time, well, guess what? You're gonna jail. So who's going to jail? Who misallocated funds? Where did the funds go? Was any of that funds filtered?

3 (1h 45m 54s):
Did anybody get wildly rich during this time? Was there some skimming, like we think is going on in Ukraine? Was there, you know, when you have a, a shit load of

4 (1h 46m 3s):
Money, but who went to jail when Rumsfeld said on September 10th, 2001? There's $2 trillion missing. Yeah. We unaccounted for

3 (1h 46m 10s):
Nobody. Nobody. Well, they, they couldn't account for Right. Is an interesting way of saying it. Yeah. Yeah. Nobody, yeah. Well, also the,

4 (1h 46m 18s):
Well, yeah. Okay. So yeah, the

3 (1h 46m 19s):
Pentagon fails its audit every year. Yeah.

4 (1h 46m 23s):
It's amazing. It's crazy. But they just hired all those a RS agents to go after Yeah. To

3 (1h 46m 27s):
Go after everybody. Anybody who spends more than 300 bucks. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 46m 30s):
No, I, yeah. I mean, there's, there's also conversations around how it can fuck with religion, you know, and the, you know, the ideologies that so many people have and the belief systems. If there's, you know, say there is extraterrestrial life and you know, how many planets in the galaxy have we found now that could sustain life? Yeah. Even in a close proximity to us. Yeah. Quite a few. Yeah.

3 (1h 46m 59s):
So the But di Diana PCA's work, what, what they're talking about is not even necessarily something from another planet, perhaps something from another planet, but maybe something No, maybe something that's from another dimension. Yeah. Maybe something that's hyper advanced that has the ability to access us and can come and go as it pleases, can go in and out. So

4 (1h 47m 22s):
It's basically here all the time. We just can't see it. 'cause it's multidimensions. Yes. It's fifth dimension.

3 (1h 47m 26s):
It's something. Yeah. And then also I mean some, again, this is what Bob Lazar talked about when he was on the show. He said, if you had brought a nuclear reactor to, you know, the 14 hundreds Yeah. And showed it to people, it'd be indistinguishable from magic. They'd be like, what the fuck is that? Yeah. This is sorcery. This is crazy. But now it's just normal. As time goes on, a million years, 2 million years from now, if somehow or another there's intelligent beings that have continued this evolution of technology and innovation, they've, they're gonna get to a place where it's, they, they have the ability to do things that are unfathomable. You can't even imagine it. Your mind is not capable of it. 'cause you don't have a point of reference.

3 (1h 48m 6s):
You don't have context. There's not a preexisting technology that leads you to make a logical bridge towards this potential. That's, it's not the

4 (1h 48m 16s):
Words like the, you know, they talk about some of the stories in the ancient text and then bible, they, you know, they don't have the words to explain Yeah. Like what a spaceship is. It's like, no, that's like a chariot in the sky.

3 (1h 48m 26s):
Ezekiel. Yeah. When you pull up the, the description that Ezekiel had of the wheel within a wheel, my god, it sounds like a UFO. Yeah. You know, and what a lot of people, I would like to talk to Tucker Carlson about this. 'cause Tucker Carlson has this belief too. He just talked to people about this. And he thinks, he thinks it's, that it's always been here and that it's a part of existence. And that this is a part of these biblical stories of angels and devils. And that's what they're really talking about. They're talking about these interventional beings. And the darkest, the darkest theory is one that Lazar talked about. He said something that they talked to him about when he was working on these back engineered crafts, is that what they use us as is vessels for that we are souls.

3 (1h 49m 16s):
We, we hold souls. And that this is essentially a farm. And this is how they, we, they develop souls through us. And that what our soul is I mean. If you had to imagine what our soul is, is some force, something that they farm here with us when we die, it transcends and becomes whatever they are in whatever space they exist in.

4 (1h 49m 44s):
That's what Bob said.

3 (1h 49m 45s):
This is, he's talking about it. That this is one of the crazier stories that has to do with religion that's attached to the UFO phenomenon. And Diana and

4 (1h 49m 53s):
Talkers talked about the demonic part about, yeah. Yeah. What did Diana say?

3 (1h 49m 57s):
Well, this is what these, some of these people think is that these things have always been here and they're a part of our history. And that this idea that they're coming here on these metal crafts from another planet is not necessarily the whole picture. That it might be some of that because we do that. Like we send drones to Mars. If we get to the point where we have artificial intelligence, or I should say created intelligence, digital intelligence that exists in some sort of a physical form that we can use in a physical craft that doesn't have the biological limitations of tissue need oxygen and all the things that would prevent us from being able to travel in deep space. And you could send this thing out into the cosmos, and this thing behaves like a life form I mean, then we're essentially on our way to doing that.

3 (1h 50m 43s):
We have a rover that's moving around on Mars right now as we speak. So what is Ezekiel's? Okay, I looked, I saw an immense dust storm coming from the north. An immense cloud with lightning flashing from at a huge ball of fire. Glowing like bronze within the fire were what looked like four creatures vibrant with life. Each had the form of a human being, but each also had four faces and four wings. Their wing, their legs were sturdy and straight as columns, but their feet were hooved, like those of a calf sparkled with the fire like burnished bronze on all four sides under their wings.

3 (1h 51m 24s):
They had human hands. All four had both faces and wings. With the wings touching one another. They had neither one way nor the other. They went straight forward. They turned neither one way nor the other. They went straight forward. Their faces looked like this in front of human face on the right side, the face of a line on the left, the face of an ox. And in the back, the face of an eagle. So much for the faces. The wings were spread out with the tips of one pair touching the creature on either side. The other pair of wings covered its body. Each creature went straight ahead. Wherever the spirit went, they went. They didn't turn as they want. The four creatures looked like blazing fire or like fiery torches.

3 (1h 52m 5s):
Tongues of fire shot back and forth between the creatures and out of the fire bolts of lightning. The creatures flashed back and forth like strikes of lightning. As I watched the four creatures, I saw something that looked like a wheel on the ground beside each of the four face creatures. This is what the wheels looked like. They were identical wheels sparkling like diamonds in the sun. They looked like they were wheels within wheels like a gyroscope. I mean, that sounds like if you're living thousands of years ago, and by the way, you tell this story forever before it ever gets written down. I mean there's a thousand years of oral tradition of speaking these stories. Before these things get written down, they went in any one of four directions they faced, but straight, not veering off.

3 (1h 52m 52s):
The rims were immense, circled with eyes. When the living creatures went, the wheels went. When the living creatures lifted off, the wheels lifted off. Wherever the spirit went, they went, the wheels sticking right with them. For the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels. When the creatures went, the wheels went. When the creatures stopped, the wheels stopped. When the creatures lifted off, the wheels lifted off because the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels. One of the things that Lazar had said, there's no instrumentation inside these things. That they're, they're piloting them with their minds. Well, think about what they're saying. I mean. What are he saying? When the creatures lifted off, the wheels lifted off.

3 (1h 53m 33s):
'cause the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels. Over the heads of the living creatures was something like a dome shimmering like a sky full of cut glass vaulted over their heads, under the dome. One set of wings was extended toward the others with another wings covering their bodies. When they moved, I heard their wings. It was like the roar of a great waterfall. Like the voice of the strong God, like the noise of a battlefield. When they stopped, they folded their wings. I mean God damn man. That sounds like that's a UFO. Yeah, it sounds like a UFO UAP. Yeah. That sounds like some fucking insane vision. That's beyond comprehension that happens to people that live in a prehistoric civilization.

3 (1h 54m 15s):
That's probably how you would describe it. Yeah. And especially if you're telling this story over and over again. It's passed down generation to generation. And someone writes it down in ancient Hebrew or an Aramaic, and then it has to get translated into Latin and into Greek, and then eventually to English. I mean the whole thing is nuts. And the vimana, the, the, the ancient Hindu text to talk about them. There's so many. And

4 (1h 54m 38s):
The OG blips too. Yeah. There's a ton of a ton of examples of that.

3 (1h 54m 43s):
Yeah. It's likely that they've always been here. and it might be connected somehow or another to our minds, the mind which produces psychedelic chemicals might also be a gateway to other dimensions. Whatever you experience when you experience dimethyl tryptamine, which we know is produced by the brain, which is the key component of ayahuasca. You experience entities, you experience exactly what they're talking about there. Yeah. So what is that? Is that, do we just dismiss that as hallucination?

4 (1h 55m 11s):
I think we legalize it and promote it and encourage people to do it. And then the aliens come

3 (1h 55m 15s):
And then they, and then we realize they've been here all along. I think they've probably been here all along. I think they're probably here right now. They're just not here here. They're just not here. Here. Yeah. But they're part of this. Yeah, I agree. We just have a very limited ability to see.

4 (1h 55m 27s):
Do you think they're benevolent?

3 (1h 55m 30s):
Probably not. No. No, I don't think so. I think, I think progress requires a lot of chaos. I think human beings in particular, innovative, creative creatures have to have something to battle against to become their better selves. We find that in human beings and I think we've probably f it's probably a, a, a universal rule as far as how progress gets perpetrated. It pro it probably gets created through battle. And not just like battle, like war I mean like battle, like conflict, like competition. Like it seems to be, that's the, the key driver of innovation in our world is this sort of competition with each other, which is a form of conflict in a lot of ways.

3 (1h 56m 15s):
You know, you're, you're battling the other competitors to see who can push each other the furthest and get the greatest, the greatest discovery quickest.

4 (1h 56m 22s):
There's gotta be some benevolent races though, if there's multiple races of

3 (1h 56m 26s):
Perhaps, but perhaps benevolence is just like our desire for ultimate peace. We have this like ridiculous idea that, you know, like you can have good with no evil and there's no real evidence for that. No, I agree. There's no real evidence in as far as human society. There's been utopian groups of people that have figured it out for short periods of time. But, you know, there's, there's circumstances that lead to utopian groups of primates. You know, Robert Polsky discovered this group of orangutans that had, or excuse me, baboons that had been eating out of garbage that was in a resort. And the, the alpha males the most vicious got to eat the food first.

3 (1h 57m 7s):
Well, this

4 (1h 57m 7s):
Was, was poisoned then they wiped them out, right? Or something.

3 (1h 57m 9s):
Yeah, they were poisoned. Yeah. So the only ones that survived were the beta males and the beta males created like this, like really kind of peaceful society. and it lasted for a long time.

4 (1h 57m 16s):
So we gotta wipe out the Alpha omega.

3 (1h 57m 18s):
The meek will inherit the earth. I mean That might be with all this fucking L-B-G-T-I-Q-A. But that's not true necessarily because they're not, they're not peaceful like Antifa and all those people. They're some of the most violent, you know, counterculture groups that we've ever seen.

4 (1h 57m 35s):
Yeah. don don't know about the meek and inherit in the earth and I think that might be taken quick. Yeah. Somebody outta context.

3 (1h 57m 40s):
But it's sort of like, kind of what's going on with the creators of technology. I mean, think about who's controlling the narrative in this world. The narrative is essentially being controlled other than by X. You know, because Elon is essentially thrown a monkey wrench into the gears of all this stuff was going, it was all adhering to a very specific ideology. There was no real, like, no real prevalent right wing online technological creation like a Google or a Facebook or a YouTube or a Twitter or all these things. Instagram. All these things are controlled by leftists, every single one of them. And they tend to be the most feminized, the least masculine, the least, at least outwardly aggressive.

3 (1h 58m 26s):
You know, they promote things like toxic masculinity and they, they demonize what's, you know, character characteristics of masculine behavior.

4 (1h 58m 37s):
Yeah. That's,

3 (1h 58m 38s):
They're the meek

4 (1h 58m 40s):
That's

3 (1h 58m 41s):
Yeah. I mean they're kind of the meek, right? They're the nerds. And the nerds are the ones that create this kind of technology and they're the ones that are in control of this technology that's

4 (1h 58m 49s):
Not sustainable.

3 (1h 58m 50s):
Well, it's definitely not because China's not that way. No. You know, and they're ruthless. And if they get control of the same ki type of technology, we will see the same sort of results that they have in their society. Which is a centralized digital currency social

4 (1h 59m 4s):
Credit score.

3 (1h 59m 5s):
Exactly. And then we're fucked.

4 (1h 59m 8s):
That's,

3 (1h 59m 9s):
How do you feel talking about all this stuff, being this prominent public figure who's a revered athlete, you know, like

4 (1h 59m 17s):
Less revered? No.

3 (1h 59m 19s):
Well, not really. Not when you kick ass. They let all that shit go, all that covid shit. They let go as soon as you got back on the field. I

4 (1h 59m 24s):
Was covid mvp. I was a two time MVP during Covid.

3 (1h 59m 26s):
Exactly. They had to shut the fuck up when it comes down to the performance. Yeah. You know, and then over time, I think a lot of people that demonized you, especially the fans, they realized you were right.

4 (1h 59m 36s):
Yeah. Well, I don't think all of 'em will entirely admit that, but Right

3 (1h 59m 41s):
In the back of their head, they know you weren't nearly as nutty as they thought you were.

4 (1h 59m 45s):
Yeah. I mean, I think it's more research comes out. There's more papers published in very reputable scientific publications that talk about, you know, all the things that I, I was kind of stopping for and talking about. I think in the end there's a, you, you're on a decision. You, you stand for something. You stand courageously for what you believe in. Or the opposite side of that is either saying nothing or being a coward. and I wasn't willing to do that. Now, say whatever you want about the way I went about doing it, In the end, I made a decision that was best for me. And I'm gonna continue talking about this stuff.

4 (2h 0m 26s):
'cause it's important to me. and I don't want the memories to be lost. I don't want what I went through to get brushed over. And also I don't give a fuck. You know, I've, I've been able to make a ton of money playing a sport that I'm really good at and I'm thankful for that. I have a platform. Some people want you to just shut up and be throw a football and that's fine. But I think there has to be certain voices of reason. And many people say I'm an idiot. I don't have, I'm not smart. I got attacked for my intelligence levels, which is an interesting angle to attack me on. There's a lot of things you can say about me, but that's, that's an interesting angle to, to go.

4 (2h 1m 7s):
But in the end, I believe that what I did and what I stand for is, is a tough position to be in. But I think it's important responsibility to continue to speak up and use my voice to give other people the permission to stand up as well. Because there's a lot of people that believe a lot of the things that I believe in that don't have the opportunity to do it. Don't have the courage to do it, don't have the platform to do it in. and I feel like I can speak for some of those people and hold the line for tho some of those people. Regardless of what kind of crosshairs that's put, that puts me in with certain media members. You know, they wanted to shut me down on being on McAfee. They wanted to shut me up from

3 (2h 1m 47s):
Well that was the Kimmel thing, right?

4 (2h 1m 48s):
Well that was No, even before. Did ever before that?

3 (2h 1m 50s):
You ever talk before? Dude? Have you ever talked to him?

4 (2h 1m 51s):
I've been on the show Yeah. Years ago. Yeah.

3 (2h 1m 57s):
Would you do, would you ever have a conversation with him in person? Of course?

4 (2h 2m 1s):
Yeah, of course. Yeah. I mean they wanted me on to be on his show in the summertime after I got traded. Really there, you know, obviously been some things that he had said about me that made me make go don don't know if I want to do that. I'd rather, you know, maybe have a side conversation first. Iron some things out.

3 (2h 2m 18s):
Well also, I don't think that conversation is a conversation that should be held in front of an audience in five minute chunks like they do on television. Yeah. That's a conversation that you have to let air out. I wanna know why you think the way you think him, you know, sit down with Jimmy. Why do you think the way you think? Why would you think that it's okay to say that? It's a real simple thing. The people that have been vaccinated, you treat them and the the people that took horse goo, you know, rest in peace. Wheezy. Really? Is that really how you feel? Like people that are sick from a disease that was created in a fucking lab that was funded by our own tax dollars.

3 (2h 3m 1s):
That's how you feel like those people should just die. 'cause they don't trust the government or they don't trust the pharmaceutical industrial complex that's been responsible for lying so many fucking times. They're literally criminal organizations Yeah. That have the some of the biggest criminal fines in in, in the history of this country. Yeah. And that all of a sudden, they're the ones we're supposed to trust. The liberals were always the ones that were anti-big pharma. They were the always the ones that had no trust in government. Anti big banks. Yeah. Anti big banks, all that. And then all of a sudden anti-war. Yeah. All of a sudden the ideology shifts because so many people are compromised by this very thing that we were talking about before.

3 (2h 3m 42s):
The very thing that they use to control the media in terms of the news, they use it to control the media in terms of late night talk shows and monologues as well. It's the same influence. 'cause they're the same sponsors, the same people are spending the same money on the same networks. and it has an impact. If it affects your livelihood and it affects your future and your ability to do this thing that you love doing, which is hosting a talk show and you're doing it on a network that is paid for by that money, guess what? That affects you. And if you don't think it affects you, look what they did with the number one guy on TV news. Tucker Carlson. They fired him. He was the number one guy.

3 (2h 4m 24s):
And they're like, you are getting too crazy. See ya.

4 (2h 4m 28s):
You're asking too many questions.

3 (2h 4m 30s):
Too many questions. You're getting a little too nutty. All this talk about the CIA definitely killed Kennedy and all, all the, all the talk, all the things. And now you look at that guy now he's wild. Yeah. But what they've done now is it's like, what a fucking mistake. Firing that guy. You should have kept him there and contained him like the, the letting that guy go loose and do his own show. 'cause it's not like, unless you kill him, it's not like people are gonna stop listening. They're gonna be

4 (2h 4m 58s):
Fascinated. And the impressions, you know, the amount of people watching this stuff, it's crazy.

3 (2h 5m 2s):
It's way bigger now. His show's way bigger than he ever,

4 (2h 5m 4s):
Ever was before. Because he access before. Because nobody fucking, most, a lot of people are, they don't even have cable package. Right. Right. They have a couple streaming services now. You got a fucking app you can watch. Yeah. His shit whenever you want.

3 (2h 5m 13s):
Anytime you want. Imagine that conversation that he had with that guy about Ozempic. Imagine that being on Fox News. Yeah. You can't imagine it. No chance.

4 (2h 5m 21s):
Impossible.

3 (2h 5m 22s):
There was, there's no fucking way.

4 (2h 5m 24s):
But it goes back to what he said in it is that they pay to control the message. Exactly. They don't, you know, they get some other advantages about pushing their medicine, but like, they don't need any other help. No. You know, they have doctors who can write prescriptions about it forever.

3 (2h 5m 37s):
It keeps them from mass media or corporate media

4 (2h 5m 40s):
Speaking. Be careful. 'cause we're I mean. If you look at the amount of percentage of the, you know, of, of their budgets that are paid for by pharma, it's pretty wild. It's a lot of money. And then you look at the how much Bill Gates has put into all the different media stuff.

3 (2h 5m 54s):
Yeah. Hundreds of millions of dollars.

4 (2h 5m 56s):
That's pretty wild too. Yeah. So why would they, so he knows, hey, yeah. Unless you want the the money train to turn off, you gotta make sure you say the

3 (2h 6m 4s):
Right shit. Who with a hundred billion dollars, who gives

4 (2h 6m 6s):
A shit that

3 (2h 6m 6s):
Should throw a few hundred million around and drop in the bucket? Don't talk shit about you. Yeah. Well that's great. Yeah.

4 (2h 6m 13s):
Yeah. But

3 (2h 6m 14s):
It's a wild world. We live in the fact that all this is true and that this is a, this is like inarguably true. All the things we're saying is inarguably true. And that you still get labeled a conspiracy theorist for discussing it. Like Yeah, I am. Yeah. Yeah. I'm a real conspiracy theorist. Some conspiracies are really fucking idiots

4 (2h 6m 33s):
And a lot of 'em have been fucking proven. True.

3 (2h 6m 35s):
Yes. I mean all, all state. And

4 (2h 6m 37s):
Why the fuck did that term even come into existence? Yeah. To dissuade questioning the JFK. Yeah. By a warrant commission basically run by Alan Dulles who was fired by JFK. Yeah.

3 (2h 6m 52s):
Well they named the fucking airport after

4 (2h 6m 55s):
I mean. Come on. People fucking, it's pretty easy to connect a few of the

3 (2h 6m 59s):
Dots here. It's pretty wild. It's wild stuff. I mean, if you, if you look at the real dark history of this country, going back to MK Ultra and that chaos book by Tom O'Neill. If you just get into any of that and then, then, then delve into the Kennedy assassin, you would lose all faith. You lose all faith in the system. You, you just could be fucking just petrified, frozen in fear. So,

4 (2h 7m 21s):
So that's my question is what I mean? Obviously this gives me a lot of hope, like what you do and the people you have on the podcast. And it's not just great conversations with the boner from Alaska or what's her, her name who does the traffic show, which is fucking awesome. But you, you, you give a platform to people who are Yeah, she's amazing. Yeah, she's

3 (2h 7m 41s):
Amazing.

4 (2h 7m 41s):
But, but this gives me hope because more people listen to this than fucking watch any news stuff. So they're getting real information from interesting people who are experts in their field about stuff. But what hope can we have that shit's gonna get better? Like

3 (2h 7m 56s):
Seriously, my hope is literally that technology will make it impossible to lie. I really think that's the battle. The battle is between people that are trying to limit our access to the truth and technology, which essentially illuminates all ignorance as this technology progresses and is essentially right now at a, a runaway train pace, kind of out of control. And it's been, there's this understanding that we have to continue in this path because if we don't, China gets there first. We're fucked. If Russia gets there first, we're fucked. And so we're guns blazing towards this thing that will dissolve all access to information.

3 (2h 8m 39s):
It will dissolve all B boundaries rather to access to information. They won't exist anymore. You'll, you'll have the ability to understand the inner workings of everything. And that transparency will make it increasingly difficult for them to fuck us. And they're gonna have to adjust accordingly. And then also people are gonna die. The old people, the old guard, they're gonna die off. You know, when you see what's the fucking dude's name that looks like a turtle.

4 (2h 9m 5s):
What's

3 (2h 9m 6s):
Soros? mcc? No, the old dude, Mitch McConnell. Mitch McConnell. When he fucking, when he locked up, those guys are gonna die. Like it's a human reality. You're a finite life for him. You only have so much time. You can only rob the world of so much before, eventually your heart stops ticking. And then the new people as they come into place, these are people that are, they're, they're growing up with the internet. It's a different understanding and reality of, of life itself.

4 (2h 9m 32s):
But don't you think there has to be some sort of field of value that can orient people into like, Hey, let's do things a little bit better because these things actually matter. There is right and wrong. There is morality. There is certain like,

3 (2h 9m 43s):
Well unfortunately, the problem with living in a secular society and living in, in a society that has a lot of people that are atheists, that have no belief system at all, is you find a belief system. And that's a lot of these people that call themselves atheists or they've subscribed to the religion of woke. You know, they're, they're God is equity and inclusiveness. Their, their God is this ideology that they think that you have to subscribe to. And that's why it's spooky, because people, hu human beings seem to have a very strong desire for some sort of order and form and some sort of pattern that they can follow that seems to be the right way to go.

3 (2h 10m 26s):
And they can be led, they can be led by cults, they could be led by groups of people. They could be led by, you know, intolerant governments and, and evil armies and corrupt politicians. They could be led. But I think as time rolls on, people are gonna understand the need to have some sort of divine structure to things. Some sort of belief in the sanctity of love and of truth. And a lot of that comes from religion. A lot of people's moral compass and the guidelines that they've used to follow to live a just and righteous life has come from religion.

3 (2h 11m 8s):
And unfortunately, a lot of very intelligent people, they dismiss all the positive aspects of religion because they think that the stories are mere superstitious fairytales that, you know, they're, they have no place in this modern world. And you know, we're inherently good. And your ethics are based on your own moral compass. And we all have one. And that's not necessarily true. 'cause you see the way people behave in war, they don't have any moral compass. Yeah. They're just fucking murderers and killers. And, and they, we've asked people in service of our country to go to these places and behave like murderers and killers and then reintegrate into society. Right. Back into society and be a good person again.

3 (2h 11m 48s):
And they don't know how to do it. And they go crazy. And there's a lot of 'em, a lot of 'em who come back and they don't, their down is up and up is down. They don't know what the fuck.

4 (2h 11m 56s):
And we don't help 'em out.

3 (2h 11m 57s):
We don't help 'em out. I don And the suicide rate suicide is the, I think, is it the number one, one killer of veterans?

4 (2h 12m 4s):
Pretty sure. Yeah. Yeah. But

3 (2h 12m 8s):
Yeah, it's a fucked up world we live in. We need to do, we need Jesus, I think for real, like if you came back now, it'd be great. Like Jesus, if you're thinking about coming back right now, now's a good time. Pretty soon. Yeah. Now's a good time. We're kind of fucked.

4 (2h 12m 22s):
Well that's a lot of people that think that that might be coming.

3 (2h 12m 25s):
Well it might be

4 (2h 12m 26s):
Mark of the beast.

3 (2h 12m 27s):
That might be the aliens. I mean. That might be, that might be what all this stuff is. It might be we reach a certain point where we're so unmanageable and so chaotic that something comes down and gives us a guideline. I mean this is what Moses essentially experienced supposedly Right. When he came back with his 10 commandments. This is supposedly what, you know, these people that have had these religious visions. What, what have they, what are the none of the religious visions like, oh, oh my God, we're fucked. Yeah. All the religious visions were there's a way to do this. Yeah. There's a guide, there's a, there's a way, a way to follow and there's a, a greater power that's above everything that controls this whole thing and keeps it all together.

3 (2h 13m 10s):
And there's laws to adhere that will make for a much better life for all humans and all, all life on earth.

4 (2h 13m 18s):
Yeah. It's hope. Hope is, hope is a memory of the future. You know, it's, this shit matters. Yeah. That, you know, it does matter. Yeah. Like everything we do matters. I think if, you know, atheists I think can find their own religion. It might be religion of science or religion of climate change or whatever it might be. But, but to not believe in a higher power means that really nothing I do matters. Ultimately I'm gonna live, I die. That's it. You know? Yeah. So whatever purpose you might have, it's short lived. It's just for this, there's, there's nothing else going on. I have a hard time with that because I believe there's a seen world and an unseen world and there's forces of good and forces of evil. And that there's a purpose for all this. And there's, you know, there's a lot of reasons why we're doing this.

4 (2h 13m 59s):
There's a lot of opportunities to do this. I'd like to get it right this time around. Yeah,

3 (2h 14m 5s):
That'd be nice.

4 (2h 14m 6s):
That'd be nice. But if, if there is the Christianity part and, and Jesus wants to come back and save everything,

3 (2h 14m 15s):
It'd be good right around now. Yeah. Like don't wait until the election.

4 (2h 14m 19s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 14m 21s):
Don't wait until China invades Taiwan.

4 (2h 14m 23s):
Don't wait until Klau Schwab puts on his suit again. Yeah. Don't

3 (2h 14m 26s):
Wait until he gets on the Darth Vader outfit. Why was he wearing that outfit? Is there an explanation for why Klau Schwab was dressed up?

4 (2h 14m 35s):
I think he was on Epstein's Island.

3 (2h 14m 38s):
Was he? No, he probably has his own island. Yeah. Yeah. It's probably under the ocean. Sorry,

4 (2h 14m 44s):
I'm not accusing Mr. Klaus Schwab of being on Epstein's Island.

3 (2h 14m 47s):
Why did you bring up Jimmy Kimmel when that whole thing was going on?

4 (2h 14m 52s):
I had said on the McAfee show, before they had talked about, you know, forever, they talked about releasing the Epstein list or whatever. Right. and I had said that on the show. And he had got on his show and called me a 10, 5, 10 foil hat wearing, you know, doofus who is talking about, you know, the, and I thought he had said that I'm an idiot for even thinking there's a list that's out there.

3 (2h 15m 15s):
What was he saying? You're a doofus for thinking

4 (2h 15m 19s):
That the list was gonna get released. I guess don don't know. don don't know what it

3 (2h 15m 24s):
Was. That doesn't make any sense. Why would anybody defend the people that apparently were on that list? 'cause it is a real list and it

4 (2h 15m 31s):
A real place. There was something about, yeah, there was something that, a conversation that Pat was having about, about this list coming out and we were talking about as a distraction to something else. and I and I was referring to the list being that there being a list and it coming out. He might have said, might have been thinking that I was trying to connect a distraction that was going on with the list being released. So I just said, you know,

3 (2h 15m 55s):
So when you were saying that he doesn't want that list to come out, you weren't saying that he was on that list? No. No. Okay. See, that was a lot of people, if they saw it outta context, they

4 (2h 16m 4s):
Didn't know. Nobody watched a fucking clip. That's why. Right. They just saw a headline.

3 (2h 16m 7s):
They saw a very small

4 (2h 16m 8s):
Thing. Oh, it's the anti-vax guy again, let's fucking

3 (2h 16m 10s):
Hammer him. Right. But, but if someone saw that out of context, you could see how, and I thought that you were saying Oh yeah, because I saw it outta context. I thought that you were saying that Jimmy Kimmel was on that list. 'cause a lot of celebrities were on that list.

4 (2h 16m 23s):
Well, the list hasn't even been released yet. But

3 (2h 16m 25s):
Whatever list

4 (2h 16m 25s):
There was, there was one test, one text of like one victim's stop. Right. There's a hundred victims. Right. Nobody's gotten right. You know, you talk about people gonna jail, no one's gotten to jail. You know who, who I mean? Ghislaine Maxwell was arre charged and in jail for trafficking to nobody.

3 (2h 16m 42s):
Right.

4 (2h 16m 43s):
Which is wild. Right? Yeah. Like look, and I said this when I, when I went back on the show, like that's a big fucking accusation that I wouldn't make. and I said, Jimmy, I'm glad you're on the list. And all I'm asking is let's have the same energy.

3 (2h 16m 58s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 16m 59s):
For you talking about the vax and people. If you're not Vaxxed just being left to die. Yeah. About these people on the list. 'cause it's fucked up. And what goes on at the top of this shit and why people were going to Epstein's Island and all the conspiracies about whether he was a Masad member and Ghislaine and her father and all the weird connections like yeah, I'm, I'm for all corruption in all forms being taken down, don don't give a fuck if you're on the right side, on the left side, whatever. Like expose it. And especially if you're doing crazy shit like that to kids. Like fucking,

3 (2h 17m 30s):
It seems like it was an intelligence operation it seems like. Oh, Of course it was. If you had to guess they were compromising powerful and influential people and they could use that to control all sorts of narratives. Yeah. And to make all sorts of decisions. I mean how many people like those, those guys that were CEOs that had given him money. Hundreds of millions of dollars. The fact that you would walk in the foyer of his house in New York City and Bill Clinton's wearing a fucking dress and a painting, you know, and Bill Clinton, Clinton was on the box.

4 (2h 17m 60s):
A bush painting. Yeah.

3 (2h 18m 1s):
Yeah. That's

4 (2h 18m 2s):
Some weird shit. It's

3 (2h 18m 3s):
Weird. It's very weird. It's all very creepy. And the fact that it was a real place. I told you, like I was telling people that Alex Jones taught, told me about that a long time ago. I thought he was outta his fucking mind. There's a place they take him, they compromise him. They have sex with kids and like, what you're

4 (2h 18m 18s):
Fucking impression is so good. I've

3 (2h 18m 20s):
Known that guy forever. I knew that guy before he talked like that. He didn his voice wasn't as scraggly all the years of tequila and vodka. But I thought it was nuts. and it turned out to be true. You know, it's turned out to absolutely be true. And it's, and still there's no effort whatsoever to try to get to the bottom of it. Find out who the people were and why they were there. And there's no like real hardcore congressional investigation of what was being done. How, how were they being influenced? What was it about,

4 (2h 18m 51s):
Why do you think that is

3 (2h 18m 53s):
Some fucking powerful people on that list, Jack? And also they don't want to fuck with this mechanism that they have that has been proven to be effective. If there was an Epstein's island, which there was. And if he, there

4 (2h 19m 6s):
Could be other ones.

3 (2h 19m 7s):
For sure. For sure. Why wouldn't there be,

4 (2h 19m 11s):
He didn't kill himself either.

3 (2h 19m 13s):
He definitely didn't. No, don don't think he did.

4 (2h 19m 18s):
Did you ever see that, that that congressional hearing?

3 (2h 19m 20s):
What is this Ghislaine Maxwell could make millions from Jeffrey Epstein scandal. How's that writing

4 (2h 19m 25s):
A book?

3 (2h 19m 25s):
Yeah. How is that lady alive? And she

6 (2h 19m 27s):
Says any, she can take all profits including any documentaries, podcasts and films that come from the book.

3 (2h 19m 34s):
Wow. She, she only has a 20 year sentence. Does she get out how many years she's been in there?

4 (2h 19m 39s):
Good behavior. Yeah. Out in two years.

3 (2h 19m 41s):
Or if someone comes along and fucking pardons her. Hmm. She's appealed, she's maintained her innocent has appealed her conviction. And isn't she in like a real nice cushy jail where you get to do yoga and stuff and it's not that bad?

4 (2h 19m 56s):
Probably the whole thing's confusing. Did you ever see the, the congressional hearing or whatever it was when they had the head of the prison in there talking about what was going on? The like how come nobody was guarding his cell and how come the cameras were off? How come the cameras were off?

3 (2h 20m 11s):
Yeah. How come he has a fractured neck that's indicative of ligature strangulation? Yeah. You

4 (2h 20m 16s):
Know. Well the one famous

3 (2h 20m 18s):
Dr. Michael Badden Yeah.

4 (2h 20m 19s):
Did the autopsy. He

3 (2h 20m 20s):
Said he is been murdered

4 (2h 20m 21s):
By the way your dog's been farting like crazy is he

3 (2h 20m 23s):
Smells so

4 (2h 20m 24s):
Bad.

3 (2h 20m 24s):
Oh, Marshall, what are

4 (2h 20m 25s):
You doing buddy?

3 (2h 20m 26s):
Farting

4 (2h 20m 27s):
I was like, I don't want you to think that was me. He's, it smells like,

3 (2h 20m 31s):
Yeah, he farts

4 (2h 20m 32s):
Some sort of He's a dog. Yeah. Asian food or something. That's good.

3 (2h 20m 35s):
No, he didn't need any Asian food. He eats, he eats raw food. Boy, that changed by the way. Folks feed your dog real food. So many people are feeding their dog kibble. That stuff. The reason why I can sit on a shelf for so long is 'cause it's not real food. Yeah, it's garbage. What do

4 (2h 20m 50s):
You feed 'em? It's because I'm about to get a dog. So

3 (2h 20m 53s):
I, I feed him something called Maeve, MAEV. It's frozen raw food. So it's frozen meat and it has, it has vegetables in it and like blueberries and stuff like that. And man, he gobbles it up and it's changed his body. He lost a ton of weight. He was getting kind of thick unfortunately. And I'd exercise him a lot and he, but you know, give him what he wants to eat and he eats a lot of it. And then you're like, is this stuff good for you? It's expensive. Is this the best dog food? It says dog food. It says the purest ingredients. But if it could just sit on a shelf, how you wouldn't eat that? Like if you had to eat Pop-Tarts forever, your body's gonna fall apart, right? Yeah. And a lot of dogs are getting cancer these days.

3 (2h 21m 34s):
So this is a company called Farmer's Dog and Jamie feeds his dog that it's all real food too. There's quite a few companies that do that now. And what, what it is is just real food, real meat and real vegetables and stuff. And man, it's changed his energy level. He was getting like gray hairs in his face. They went away. It's like he went backwards in time. Like, no

4 (2h 21m 56s):
Kidding. Have have you got him on the red light bed yet?

3 (2h 21m 59s):
No, no, no, no. He gets a lot of exercise though. He's got a nice big yard. We, we, we, I always throw the ball to him for quite a while before I take him here. So he,

4 (2h 22m 7s):
He's tire him out a little bit.

3 (2h 22m 8s):
Yeah. Whenever you take him somewhere you gotta like wear him out first. He's, I, unfortunately he's not good on a leash. Marshall's quite a polar,

4 (2h 22m 16s):
But I can see that. Yeah.

3 (2h 22m 17s):
He's just fucking, he's got a lot of energy. He's an enthusiastic dog but he's the best. He's such a sweet dog. I mean you see him like everybody he meets is his best friend. Yeah. You know, know and everybody loves him so he is just used to people

4 (2h 22m 27s):
Love. Yeah. We bonded pretty quick. He's like, rub my belly. Yeah. As

3 (2h 22m 29s):
Soon as he sees you, he drops down. He is like, I know you wanna rub me? Yeah. A big smile

4 (2h 22m 33s):
On his face. It's fine. Alright. He's dog walking the ground with this deal.

3 (2h 22m 37s):
I'm sorry. He's farting on you though. Yeah, it's

4 (2h 22m 38s):
All good. I love dogs.

3 (2h 22m 40s):
Well, listen brother, I appreciate you, appreciate you out there. All right. I appreciate your, your courage to talk about these things that are important for you and obviously it doesn't hurt that you're fucking awesome at football.

4 (2h 22m 51s):
Well, I'm gonna be back this year, hopefully back to my old ways. Hopefully get you, you and Jamie out to a game.

3 (2h 22m 56s):
Yeah, we'll, we'll go for sure. Yeah. As soon as you're back, man. But I

4 (2h 22m 59s):
Appreciate you having me on again. And my pleasure, brother. I fucking love, love the show, love the episodes, love what you're all about and appreciate having you as an ally in this whole thing. Thank

3 (2h 23m 9s):
You. Thank you. I appreciate you too. Alright. Goodbye everybody.