0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast, Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night, All day.

3 (13s):
Okay, Mr. Dubin Good to see you again, sir.

4 (16s):
Mr. Rogan, always,

3 (17s):
Always a pleasure. Introduce your friend.

4 (21s):
This is my, my friend, my client, my brother Sheldon Johnson. I figured we'd do something a little bit different. Typically, the person sitting to my right is someone that was wrongfully convicted, so I don't wanna bury the headline. Sheldon is Guilty and I thought it would be a real interesting conversation to learn his background, learn about his upbringing, learn about the crime that he committed, and hear the sentence he got, which I don't want to, to shade it and inject my opinion.

4 (1m 10s):
I have a strong one, but it's a pretty astounding how he was treated by the system. I think that there's a real interesting twist that happens at his sentencing. And I know, I've said this before, and it probably sounds repetitive, but another miracle sitting to my right, just like a, a marvelous human being who was basically told by a judge, by an African American judge that you don't matter. You don't count, and I'm gonna throw your life away for a crime in which the victim received two stitches.

4 (1m 53s):
And on a second offense, his first offense being a gun possession charge. So I will say this, that he received a sentence that far eclipses a sentence that would be commonly dolled out for murder or manslaughter. So with that, here's Sheldon Sheldon.

3 (2m 17s):
How long you been out for? Going on nine months. I got out May 4th last year. And you were in for 25? 25 years and five months. Two stitches.

4 (2m 31s):
Two stitches.

3 (2m 33s):
Jesus.

4 (2m 34s):
But one, one of the things that always struck me about Sheldon was I didn't know him. and I got a call from these two remarkable attorneys at organization called The Center for Appellate Litigation. Barbara Zola and Allison Hopped, who had been working on his case for a long time, and they called me and Derek Hamilton and said, you know, we know you're working on some stuff with the Manhattan District Attorney's office. We have this case that is sort of hit a snag. I want you to take a look at it and see if you could help us. and I called Barbara back and said, I think, I think that there's a mistake here because it says that he was sentenced to 50 years I mean that's no bullshit.

4 (3m 25s):
I could not believe what I was reading. And then I read about what Sheldon had accomplished while in prison. And then his earliest date of release was, I think 20 20 49. 49. And he had already served 25 years. So I was just blown away by the level of accomplishment and the mental wherewithal that he possessed to accomplish what he did while incarcerated. And then the path he's taken in the eight months since he's been out is it's, it's, we talk about on these episodes, how do you make change happen?

4 (4m 8s):
He's living it and making it happen. So I thought it would be just fascinating to go through, like I said, his life, how he got to where he was, why he got this, what his thoughts are and our thoughts are on the sentence he received. Why that happens too often to people of color and I know, there's one thing I wanna say, and then I'm gonna shut up and really let Sheldon talk and you talk, I get a, I get this a lot. Why are you always bringing up race when you talk about the system? And my, my response to that is, if you don't talk about how it impacts the system, even for people that have been found guilty, it's like, it's like having a conversation about President bidet and ignoring the very obvious apparent cognitive deficiencies he has.

4 (5m 6s):
It would be like talking about Donald Trump and not recognizing that he seems like an unhinged lunatic. It would be like talking about Kamala Harris and ignoring that she, you know, didn't do much to advance criminal justice reform, or you have to confront it. It's just, it's there. Is it that all people that get wrongfully convicted are people of color? No, but most of them Is it that all people of color get disparate sentences? Oh, absolutely. So that's why I thought that this is an important conversation to have. And getting to know Sheldon, just thought he, he has a remarkable story to tell and a perspective on, on his circumstances, the system.

4 (5m 53s):
And he's someone that's taken responsibility for what he did. and I think as a living example of what can happen if we think long and hard about if someone's life is worth just throwing away and putting behind bars so that they can rot in a dank cell because he would've been 70 years old when he got out way past his life expectancy.

5 (6m 19s):
You know, one of the things that's happened through all of our conversations that we've had on the show is it, it highlights how insanely broken the criminal justice system is and how little oversight there is, and how few people are looking at these individual cases. And that you can have one judge who does what they did to you, and no one's looking, no one cares, no one pays attention. And until someone like you goes in and starts combing over this and coming up with a strategy for, you know, to actually apply real justice or at least get someone out, I mean the only way to apply real justice is to have a fucking time machine.

5 (7m 4s):
Right? But it's broken I mean, it's, it's so broken and it seems so overwhelmed. And the root cause of it is never addressed. The root cause of I mean, I, I've said it ad nauseum, but I'll say it again. Where the fuck did we come up with a hundred and whatever billion dollars to send to Ukraine? And we don't have any money to, to try to do something about these insanely impoverished, crime ridden, gang ridden drug ridden communities. We don't do anything. We have nothing I mean, this is my, my take on this whole Make America great again thing.

5 (7m 48s):
You wanna make America great again. Make it so there's less losers. Make it so that more people have a fucking chance. The idea that everyone starts on the same line, I mean, I'm not talking about equality of outcome. That's not possible, but equality of opportunity is possible. That's a possible goal. And at least we could advance that. At least we could do something to, you know, just, just change the course of who knows how many people's lives. And we don't do a fucking thing about it.

4 (8m 23s):
I I mean I we're looking at each other because we just had, we just like had lunch before we came. It's like the precise conversation that we had. I told you this, as a motherfucker that gets it.

5 (8m 34s):
Oh, I know. It just makes no sense to me. It makes no sense to me. And it's not a subject of any presidential debates. It's not a subject of anybody who's running for Congress or running for Senate, we have to fix this. This is a problem. It's been going on for decades and decades back through Jim Crow back all the way to slavery, the same, same communities. And we don't do anything.

6 (8m 56s):
It

4 (8m 57s):
It, pull that a little close

5 (8m 58s):
Show redlining everything.

4 (8m 59s):
Pull that mic up a little bit.

5 (9m 1s):
Yeah, just, just That's good. That's good. Yeah. Yeah. It's good. I mean, it's, it's wild. It really is wild. And, you know, and the race part of it is a major factor. It's a major factor and it's a factor that gets ignored when people start talking about racism, systemic racism in country. Talk about sentencing. How come that's not talked about? Yeah.

4 (9m 24s):
Well that's a vestige of, that's a vestige of slavery. Yep. Segregation. Jim

5 (9m 31s):
Crow, redlining, Jim Crow, everything. Crow

6 (9m 33s):
Exercising your right to a jury trial. Yep. And being punished twice.

4 (9m 38s):
Yeah. It's, it's hard to know where to pick up because we just had this conversation, but you're, you know, look, well, let, let's preface the, the episode by saying this. We are doing something about it. I keep telling you that this, this forum that keeps paying dividends. We are, we are making progress. We are opening people's minds. I'm getting letters from prosecutors, I'm getting letters from sheriffs. I got a letter from a, a sheriff in, in Oregon last week, and he sent me a, a badge and said, I wanna show you how committed I am to trying to make change happen.

4 (10m 18s):
and it was from this show. So we're doing it. We're addressing it. We're making it happen. Why politicians don't, I I, you know, what drives someone to want to get into politics these days is for a different psychiatrist. No fucking, I have no clue what the allure is, but you know, like, there's such a swirl of ego and power struggle and divided loyalties. I can't even wrap my head around it. But, you know, we're doing it. We're helping, we gotta do it grain of sand by grain of sand until we have a sandcastle. So that's what we're doing. So I do think we're making a difference, but, you know, it's crazy because Shel Sheldon and I are the same exact age, and we didn't know that until we were on our way down

6 (11m 7s):
Here one days apart.

4 (11m 8s):
Yep. And he, he flew, when we flew down, it was the first time he'd ever been on an airplane.

6 (11m 15s):
Wow. What was that like?

5 (11m 18s):
Fucking weird, right? Nah, I

6 (11m 20s):
Was, it was, I, I actually loved it. I was, I was very excited. I'm kind of like an adrenaline. I like the adrenaline rush, just the, the speed of it and just the whole idea of just, you know, I I, I had this analogy in my head when I was up in the clouds and I'm looking down and I said to myself, I said, I just came from the bowels of hell spending 25 years in prison, and now I'm in the sky above the clouds, in the heavens, headed to a destination to talk about change and to talk about all of the things that brought me to this place today.

6 (12m 2s):
And, you know, the conditions in which I grew up and you know, how social conditions play a role in the decisions that we make, or the lack of achievements or opportunities like Joe just said a couple of minutes ago. You know, those opportunities are very important. And being able to start that line where everybody is not necessarily equity like equitable, but you know, everybody has that same opportunity.

5 (12m 28s):
You have a chance.

6 (12m 29s):
You have a chance. Yeah. A real chance.

5 (12m 32s):
Well, so tell us about your upbringing. Upbringing.

6 (12m 35s):
So I'm a coda. My mother's deaf, my father's deaf, my sister's deaf. My aunt is deaf. I grew up in a deaf household.

5 (12m 43s):
What's a

6 (12m 44s):
Coda? A coda's, A child of death adults.

5 (12m 46s):
So's crazy. This is a second podcast in a row I'm doing with someone who's like that. Yeah, Mo Mosha casher, who was on yesterday. His parents are deaf. He signs and, you know, he's, he's, he had to translate for his mother, his, his whole

6 (12m 58s):
Life. Same with me. So as a child growing up, my mother's also white. My grandmother came to America in 1918 from a boat from Sicily. My father is Nigerian, he's African. So there was this always this contrast where, you know, I wasn't really sure where I belonged at. You know, kids are cruel. So growing up, you know, kids would say, oh, you are mulatto, you are a half breed, and oh, you are adopted. And for a long time I kind of suffered as a child with an identity crisis, not really knowing where I fell at on either side, what my identity was, who I was supposed to be. And, and my father. I'm also a product of intergenerational incarceration.

6 (13m 40s):
My father was incarcerated when I was young, at an early age. He did about 15 years. I was incarcerated. My grandfather was incarcerated. My great-grandfather was a slave. And my son killed somebody when he was 12 years old. So that there, there's this cycle of, of, of incarceration based on the conditions, the social conditions, and where I come from. I grew up in New, York city, Harlem, on the borderline between the east side and the west side on Fifth Avenue. You hear fifth Avenue, you're like, oh, wow, you live in a nice place. Okay. Crack era. Harlem, eighties, nineties, you know, and I grew up, you know, protecting my mother, interpreting for my mother.

6 (14m 23s):
My mother could hardly ever keep a job because of her handicap. There was always somebody that would replace her. A lot of people saw my mother as a victim. She was a white woman in on hundred and 12th Street, in Lennox Avenue in all black community. So as a child, I grew up protecting my mother. So I never really, I feel like in hindsight, I didn't really have an opportunity to be a child. I had to grow up and be a man early in my life in order to be able to protect my mother. And a lot of people didn't even know that my, that, that I was, that I could hear. So there were times where I would be standing there with my mother and like, people would just be making all type, all type of random comments and just disrespectful, you know, just hateful stuff.

6 (15m 7s):
and I would sit there as a kid just kind of like looking up like, like, dude, I can like hear you. So, you know, I think my life took a significant turn. And when I was in the fifth grade, I was always pretty smart. But, you know, as, as being smart and growing up in these neighborhoods, you know, the, the school systems are not really equipped to handle the, the number of children that's coming through. So you have one teacher and like 30 kids. And me just being who I was, I was always pretty smart. And when I was finished with my work, I would kind of just clown around. I had this teacher in the fifth grade, my math teacher.

6 (15m 47s):
And what he would do was he, when you acted out in the classroom, he would call you to the front of the classroom. He had a stack of rulers today. He would be arrested back then, but it was, back then, it was permissible. It was considered as, you know, just punishing kids. And, and he would call you to the front of the classroom. He would make you stick out your hand. And he would put salt, he had a big salt shaker that he kept on his desk. And he would sprinkle salt in your palm and he would smack the ruler into your hand. And the salt would kind of embed itself into your palm and would kind of have like a little burning sensation. So one day I decided that I was tired of it, and he called me to the front of the classroom and I put my hand out.

6 (16m 28s):
And when he swung, I moved my hand and he almost fell over. He chased me around the classroom. I ran out into the hallway, he chased me into the hallway. I grabbed the fire extinguisher off the wall, and I sprayed him until he fell.

4 (16m 40s):
That was my reaction too. I was like, he sound like he

6 (16m 44s):
Was jerk and he was cursing and oh man. But long story short, I sat in the back of the police car for three hours as they determined my fate as a 10-year-old put me in handcuffs and everything. and I had a, I had a counselor at that time, and I guess she convinced them to send me to a hospital. So they sent me to Mount Sinai Hospital, psychiatric unit and I remember them sticking me with a needle, Dorsey 10-year-old kid, man, just, you know, just

5 (17m 14s):
Jesus Christ

6 (17m 15s):
In a stray jacket being escorted to a hospital and they stick me with a needle. And so for months from Mount Sinai, I went to Metropolitan and I attempted to escape from metropolitan. And they sent me to a more secure area.

4 (17m 30s):
What's Metropolitan?

6 (17m 31s):
Metropolitan Hospital. It's also a psych ward. So why did

5 (17m 34s):
They send you to a psych ward for that?

6 (17m 38s):
I guess they, they, you know, I, I was considered as a young black kid who was out of control with behavioral issues. And you know, I, I'm not sure exactly the gist of the conversation that took place, but from what I've gathered now in the future, is that my mother felt that she would rather see me in the hospital than to see me in the jail. 'cause it was either that or they told her that they were gonna send me to Spofford. So I went through that just being subject to just a whole bunch of different medications. Mere how do lithium coach gin? And then they transferred me to Pleasantville. From Pleasantville. I went to Hawthorne.

6 (18m 19s):
And you know, and I'm gonna be honest, this is where I learned how to become a criminal because prior to that, I was just a kid. They put me in this place where, you know, I was around older kids and these kids were really like about that life. There was stuff, there was really bad stuff happening. If you look up Hawthorne, Cedar knows, to this day it's been closed for allegations of, of sex trafficking and child abuse.

4 (18m 41s):
Just, just so, because we know it 'cause we're from New York. But those are juvenile detention.

6 (18m 47s):
They're group homes. Yeah. They're like juvenile detention facilities. So they consider me as a person. They put what they call a pin on you, and it's a person of interest, a a person in need of, of assistance. And they put you in these places and they just kind of just leave you there. So I finally got out of there, I went through a lot there. I was molested by a counselor, and I finally escaped from there. and I just went back into the streets at 13 years old. and I just was offended for myself. I was out in the

5 (19m 21s):
Street. So it was three years of that,

6 (19m 22s):
Three years of that from my

5 (19m 24s):
Ages. For for one instance. For one instance where guy's trying to hit you with a fucking ruler. Yes. Wow.

6 (19m 32s):
And you know, I always look back and I see that as a trajectory in my life that just changed everything. I went from, you know, it, it changed me as a person. I lost my innocence. I felt like after I, after I left that place, I was a darker person because of the things that I saw and the things that I went through. So I come back and we talking about, this is 1988 crack era Harlem. You know, you got kids 13, 14 years old, making a thousand dollars every two, three days selling drugs, looking out on the corners. This was like real stuff. You see, new Jack City, new Jack City was for real back then.

6 (20m 12s):
Yeah. People

5 (20m 13s):
Who grew up after that do not understand pre crack and post crack. Oh

6 (20m 19s):
Yeah. Big difference. It

5 (20m 20s):
Was wild.

6 (20m 21s):
Devastated my community, man.

5 (20m 23s):
It was wild. And how the fuck did that happen? Like how the fuck did that happen? When you go through the whole story of it and you go to like, I mean, come on man. Like I had freeway Ricky Ross on here twice. Here you go. I

4 (20m 38s):
Ain't gotta say it. We just last he said it. So last night we were talking about this and we were talking about like, what do we wanna accomplish today? And last night when we were talking he, he's like, well, you know, the CIA brought crack into, I said, you might wanna stay away from that, but here we are. So

5 (20m 60s):
The fuck outta staying away from that man, my friend Michael Rupert rest in peace. He was the guy who stood in front of the city council on television and exposed it. He was a former Los Angeles narcotics officer. And he said, I personally witnessed the CIA selling drugs in the inner cities of Los Angeles. And that was the freeway, Ricky Ross situation where they were using that money to fund the Contras versus the send. Denise is in Nicaragua.

4 (21m 30s):
It's, it's really not. It's crazy because last night Sheldon's telling me about it, and I spent a long night into the early morning hours reading some of what you told me to read. It's really not, it's really not in dispute that it

5 (21m 47s):
Happened. Not in dispute at all.

4 (21m 48s):
And, and what was, what, what, well, I'm gonna let Sheldon tell what, what what blew me away about it was that not only was it known how addictive it was, it was also known how easy it was to reproduce the process and

6 (22m 3s):
How much cheaper it became.

5 (22m 6s):
Yeah. Not only that, the differences in sentencing,

6 (22m 9s):
The differences in sentencing one to

5 (22m 10s):
Five, that's the wildest thing.

4 (22m 12s):
One to five is like a

6 (22m 13s):
One to five ratio. Yeah. And then you had the Nelson, the Rockefeller drug laws that came into effect that required mandatory minimums and, and et cetera, et cetera. So when we talk about social conditions and we talk about situations that were created for the purpose of what, you know, they separated, you know, you separated families. You had mothers who, and really grandmothers who had to take care of the children because the mothers were in the streets smoking crack. And the fathers were either in the streets using drugs, selling drugs, or in prison with astronomical sentences and removed from the family structure, total totality because of these conditions.

6 (22m 58s):
So now you have the child just kinda left to fend for itself. And we are not even talking about the children who were born that were subject to a mothers who, you know, the the crack baby, right? Yeah. and it just I mean the list just goes on and on. When we talk about social conditions and we talk about the, the long term effects of, of these conditions and how it produces behavior. Like Ivan Pavlov, one of my favorite psychologists, he talks about stimulus and a response. Right. A classical condition. And so you introduce the, the stimulus and then you have a, a response which equals to the condition that we see. And

5 (23m 38s):
And you're also talking about what we were talking about earlier. You're still dealing with these communities that are still suffering from segregation. Jim Crow. Yeah. And then they throw crack in it, like just gasoline on a fire.

4 (23m 50s):
Yeah. It, it's crazy because we've had this conversation in the abstract. We've had this conversation, you know, about this very subject. And then the more I got to know Sheldon and his story, I said, well, here was someone that not only lived it and, and I wanna make clear. One thing that has always struck me about Sheldon is his vulnerability, but also his honesty. He's like, he'll be the first to tell you out of the gate I did it. I I could have made better choices. He's not asking for a pass based on his conditions. What he's always said to me was, I just want people to consider how it may have impacted me.

4 (24m 35s):
So, and to me, you just can't ignore it. It doesn't say, well, poor Sheldon, I, I think that because I guess, you know, I know him, the human being. So I I, like, I trip out when people are like, anybody that murderers or Robs or does lock 'em up and throw away the key. I always feel like, well, well look, why don't you explain to me how you have gotten to know somebody that has been brought up in different conditions than you were. How long have you sat and listened to them?

4 (25m 16s):
How long have you considered how that might have impacted them and compared it to the conditions you grew up in, how many people like him have you gotten to know? So again, I'm, I'm trying to walk a fine line between sounding preachy and, and just saying, let's just consider the circumstances in which he was born. We're both 48. I don't want to get into, you know, my, my family, you know, struggled financially, but had different opportunities. My mom was a school teacher. My dad was a knock around Brooklyn guy that did what he could do to, you know, provide for his family and wasn't always great at it.

4 (25m 56s):
But he was a wonderful man. But I ha I can't ignore that. I had different opportunities than Sheldon did. So when he gets out and then he arrives back on the street, you know, I don't think anyone's gonna argue with the fact that you're impacted and molded from 10 to 13 and forward 13 to 18 by who are the people you're around, what are the conditions you were born in. Yeah.

6 (26m 23s):
And, and I never even went back to school after that. So I'm talking about after the fifth grade, I went back to school maybe for a week when I was 17 to Washington, Irv High School. I went to school for a week and I just dropped back out. I just saw no purpose in going to school and I really didn't go back to school and really educate myself until I went to prison. Today I'm pursuing a master's in Human Services

4 (26m 48s):
Before we get to your master's. Why, why don't you explain, so you get back at

6 (26m 53s):
13. So I get back into my community at 13 and I'm just kind of, not only am I, I not only am I like kind, trying to wean myself from all of the narcotics that have been pumped into me for these last three years. I'm talking about, I, I gained so much weight. I went from a slim kid to being fat because of the medications that they was giving. So

5 (27m 16s):
What are they giving you in,

6 (27m 17s):
They were giving me Hald or lithium Thorazine re another and another medication called Coach Jenin. Those are the ones that I'm aware of and I'm talking about, I was just like heavily sedated, just,

5 (27m 32s):
And that's what they do to all the

6 (27m 33s):
Kids in there. And that's what they did to most of the kids. Yeah. They

5 (27m 35s):
Just want to keep them calm and quiet.

6 (27m 36s):
Just keep 'em calm and quiet. Keep 'em calm and quiet. And

5 (27m 41s):
Are they giving you any counseling when you're in there? Are they talk?

6 (27m 47s):
It's superficial. It's, it's not really. It's not, you know, you got a bunch of kids who sit around in a group and, you know, they do a feelings check. But the counselors really, the counselors, as far as I was concerned, the counselors didn't really care because there was the checked out. They were, yeah, there was so much going. The counselors was just there for a check. There was so much going on that were, that was above and beyond what the counselors could control. It was just ridiculous. You had the kids going down into White Plains, breaking into guards, stealing, getting high, going across the campus, having sex with the girls. It was just insane what was going on. and I and I, you know, I learned how to become this person. I learned how to survive there.

6 (28m 29s):
I learned, you know, what it meant to go and steal a Benz Z boxes. Remember the Benz Z boxes where you could snatch them right out the car? People used to hide them. I learned how to, you know, break into a car with the older guys and how to take a benzi box and sell it. So I learned how to survive there. I mean, I, I've always known how to survive superficially, but from, from, I just feel like at that point I was put into a place where instead of getting real therapy or real help, I was just kind of put into a place. and I was, I was like, I was malleable. You know, I was, I was young, I was impressionable. And this is what I was seeing. These became my role models. These were the guys that, that I respected, that I looked up to.

6 (29m 12s):
They, you know, they were selling drugs. They didn't have a care in the world. They had all of the girls. And, and, and, you know, and I, ironically, prison in my community was almost like a rite of passage right in my community. When you went to prison and you came back and you didn't, you didn't tell on nobody and you were able to hold it down, you know, and, and, and word got back to the streets that you, you didn't get robbed or, you know, you didn't get punked. People looked at you differently, treated you differently. I remember when I was 15 years old, I wanted to go to Rikers Island so bad that I lied to the officer. I got arrested for smoking. I I got arrested for smoking weed. Weed is legal now. But back then, like weed was a thing.

6 (29m 54s):
Like if they saw you smoking weed, that gave them justification to get out, stop you, take you down to the precinct, run you for warrants and all kind of other stuff. You sat in the bullpens for three, four days before you even got out. and I remember lying to the officer, he said, how old are you? I said, I'm 16 because I wanted to go to Rikers Island so that I could come back and be around the older guys and tell him, Hey, listen, I went and I still got my sneakers, you know, and, and, and, and the, and the girls and everybody just treated you different. And, and it's really sad. But that was a reality that I was faced with. So I come back, I'm 13 and I'm going through this stuff. My mother's still struggling. She's on SSD, which is Social Security for disability.

6 (30m 36s):
My father's in prison and it's just, I just, I started selling drugs. Guy offered me an opportunity to be a lookout. He said, listen kid, I just need, you know, I'm gonna give you $75 a day. I just need you to stand on that corner. And when you see the police car, just yell, oh shit. Oh shit. That was like a little thing. and I would just stand there. And eventually I just slowly moved up the ranks and I and I became this person that I felt like I was never meant to be. But because of the conditions and because of where I was at, and because I, what I saw, what I was exposed to made me into someone else. It turned me into, into, into this person that I was never meant to be.

6 (31m 19s):
and I just, you know, just when you're in these, these these, when you're in this melting pot of just insanity, you, you, you, you know, you lose sense of what's, what's permissible and what's not and what's impermissible, right. You know, I'm committing crimes and it just doesn't even matter no more. I was never the guy to, you know, to hurt any old people. My era, you know, when you seen old people come through, you help them with their bags, and we have respect for our elders. That was something that was always taught to us. Now these kids, it's, it's just, that's a whole nother story. But yeah, I'm just, and I and I'm committing and I'm getting arrested for little stupid crimes, driving without a license, standing on the corner.

6 (32m 2s):
Little small petty drug cases. And I'm just, I'm just kind of just moving through my life with no purpose, but I'm providing for my family. My mother doesn't, you know, at the end of the month, we don't have to worry about just eating grits and cheese no more. You know, we can eat chicken and velv vita shells and cheese, you know, and, and for some people that's significant. You know, I can buy a couch now. I can buy a real couch that, that, that's comfortable. I can buy a TV for my mother. I can, you know, set up her cable the way she can watch HBO. All of these little small things that I wasn't able, able to do that she couldn't really do for herself after she paid the rent was significant.

6 (32m 45s):
and it made me feel like I had a purpose. It made me feel like a man. When in all actuality, you know, many of the values in the malls that I adopted growing up were just so walked and so misplaced. Like Scarface, the movie, right? You know, you have this, oh, I don't work, I don't break my balls and my word for nobody. Right? You know, and I remember one time, a friend of mine, he came to pick me up and he was on a run from the cops. He had a warrant out for his arrest. He had a car full of drugs and a car full of guns. And because I gave him my word, I felt like I couldn't back outta the situation. Nothing bad happened. But it's just the idea of sometimes growing up and, and adopting these values and these morals, and you begin, you begin to take them on as part of your characteristics.

6 (33m 31s):
And you just, you just make you end up making really, really bad decisions that can cost you for the rest of your life. Like my son, like when my son, when he, when he got into a, he got into a fight with an Asian guy. They called him the Columbia Law student Killer, right? He gets into a fight with this Chinese guy, and this is not the take away anything from that man's family. And you know, as a man, as his father, I felt some type of way. But the guy goes into the street and gets hit by a car and he dies. But this is how fast your life can change from just one simple mistake. From one mistake. and I just feel like, you know, a lot of times these conditions are, are, are, are created.

6 (34m 12s):
And, and there's really no, there's no alternatives. I had never been on a plane like Josh said. Like I had never even thought about going on a plane. So I'm growing up in this community. My father's gone, my mother's, you know, she's deaf. I ended up having a son. My son was born in 1993. And that just made things that just exacerbated the issue, right? So now I'm really, you know, what am I gonna do now? You know, I have a son, I have someone to look at. And then despite how many times I said that I was never gonna be who my father was, my actions were actually setting me up to be exactly who my father was and remove me from my son's life.

6 (35m 0s):
And in 19, I caught the gun charge. That, that, that, that triggered the felony, that it allowed them to be able to sentence me the way that they did. In 1994, I also caught another case. At that time, I was gi I was, I was what you call giving out consignment on drugs. Two people in particular I gave consignment to. and I ended up getting arrested for a case. And when I sent someone to go pick up the money from them, they kind of just was like, you know, nah, whatever, I'm not paying them. So when I came home, one guy in particular, I ran into him with his girlfriend, he'll be fired.

4 (35m 42s):
Did you get that case? Got dismissed, right?

6 (35m 45s):
The gun charge?

4 (35m 46s):
No. The one that you were away for, you got arrested for something, you're in jail. Yes. These guys figure, since you're in jail, fuck it. We're not gonna pay him. Yeah, I'm not gonna pay him. And then the case that you were arrested for got dismissed.

6 (35m 59s):
Got dismissed, all right. I got

4 (36m 0s):
AC quit. So then you, so then you come home.

6 (36m 2s):
So then I come home and you know, I need my money. I, I need my money. I'm just, just, it's just me being honest. This is miss being straight. You know, I gave you something and we had an understanding that you were gonna pay me. And when I came home, when I finally located this particular individual, he had his girlfriend with him. And this guy owed me $5,000 for some drugs that I had gave him on consignment. I gave him a eighth of eighth of a kilo, which is 125 grams of cocaine. And when I saw him, he had a bunch of jewelry on. He was with his girlfriend, she had a bunch of jewelry on. and I said, Hey man, where's my money at?

6 (36m 46s):
Oh, y'all, I was gonna pay you. As far as I was concerned, his jewelry was, we was even. So I robbed him and I took his jury and his girlfriend happened to be there. And unfortunately she got caught up in the situation. I had a bunch of young guys with me, and they robbed her as well. And he got hit in the head with a gun right here on the side of his head. And he got two stitches. And they gave me 25 years for that case. Did you hit him in the head? No. One of the guys that I was with hit him in the head and he identified me and a photo array, unbeknownst to me, he identified me in a photo array.

6 (37m 32s):
This guy, you know, as far as I was concerned, he was in the streets just like I was. So, right. I didn't really understand that, you know, like I said, we go back to morals and values and principles and how warped they can be. Right? Right. In my mind at the time, this is a guy who I gave something to. He's living an illegal life. I'm living an illegal life. So as far as I was concerned at that time, it was fair game, right? In hindsight, as I, as I moved on and I became more mature and I began to reevaluate myself, I realized how wrong that was. But that was later on at this time, I committed the crime and I just kept moving. Another guy that I ran into, he also owed me some money.

6 (38m 13s):
He owed me $7,000. and it kind of went along the same ways. He was selling drugs out of an auto parts store. He was a Spanish guy. I got word that this is where he was at, and he was selling drugs and I was going to get my money. And the same circumstances kind of ensued. Saw him, Hey, what's going on? You know, reading in between the lines and outside the margins without really going into all of the details, I robbed him because he owed me $7,000.

3 (38m 44s):
Did he get physically

6 (38m 45s):
Hurt? No, he didn't get touched. Got roughed up a little bit, but there was no physical, there was no physical harm, nothing going back to morals and values and principles, right? In my mind, he was fair game. He's selling drugs. I'm selling drugs, you owe me money. I came to take what you have. And that world that was considered as permissible, these are one of the rules of something that was permissible in that world. Long story short, in December, 1997, I get arrested for both cases, really? For one of them. For the one with the guy and the girl.

6 (39m 29s):
And then the other case drops with the auto par store. The guy that I said they were selling drugs outta the auto par store. I am in the process of going to court, I'm going back and forth to court. I'm on Rikers Island at the time. It's just crazy on Rikers Island. That's when the gangs was involved. Prior to that, a year before that, I had got involved with the gangs. I was, I was blood, I was a gang member. This is where the cut come from on my face. I have a bunch of stab marks from just being in those environments and being on Rikers Island and just Warring with other rival gangs, mostly Latin Kings and intas.

6 (40m 15s):
My final offer before trial was 23 years, which kind of blew me away because my lawyer kept telling me that my maximum sentence was 25 years if I went to trial. So in my mind, I i, it just didn't make no sense to me. Why would I forfeit my rights to an appeal if there's only a two year difference? I told the judge I would take 15 years right now. I acknowledged that I had, that I had made some mistakes and I had done some things that, that were wrong. and I said, I'll take 15 years right now. He refused to accept my plea offer and I went to trial, and then I ended up getting 50 years, five zero.

6 (40m 58s):
And

3 (40m 59s):
So they give you 25 for each case. Is

6 (41m 0s):
That what was 25 for each case? Consecutive. So, and I remember, I remember like blowing trial and just not really understanding like what was being there, but not like, it was like almost surreal. and I, remember when I went and got sentenced and the judge said 50 years. Now, mind you, I I, I had a black lawyer, a black judge, and a white prosecutor. And I, remember when he said 50 years? He said, oh, he went into all of these reasons why he was sentencing me the way that he was sentencing me.

6 (41m 44s):
There was never no post. There was never no, they're supposed to do a report prior to your sentencing. And it's called post supervision interview, pre-sentencing In investigation, it's called the PSI Pre-sentencing investigation. There was never no pre-sentencing investigation. There was never no mitigating evidence presented on my behalf to, you know, highlight why I may have made some of the decisions that I made. And he just called me a menace of society. And he just, he gave me 50 years. and I, remember when I, when I first got to downstate, which is a processing facility, and they give you what they call is a time computation sheet.

6 (42m 27s):
And on the time computation sheet, it gives you all of the numbers, like the beginning of your beard, how much jail time you have. and I, just remember 2049. That's all I kept looking at. And I was like 2049. Are they fucking serious? This is 19 98, 19 99. And I'm trying to do the math and I'm just like 2049. I'm like, that's 50 years from now. and I remember going to the law library in, I forget how I get the world Armac and something just says, look up the life expectancy and I, look up my life expectancy.

6 (43m 10s):
And as an African American man, my life expectancy at that time was 67 years old. and I did the math and I said, I'm gonna die in prison. Man. I just really believed that I was gonna die in prison. One thing I learned really, really quickly when I got to prison was that prison does two things to you. It brings out the best or it brings out the worst. And what I saw was I saw individuals who were at their worst and I saw guys who were at their best. The guys who at their best were guys who were involved in education, post-secondary education programs.

6 (43m 50s):
They were running the program, they was running the violence groups. They was running the substance abuse groups. and I remember saying to myself, I want that. and I remember just being involved in so much bullshit because I was in a gang and I was, I was, I was top of the food chain. I had my own nation. I wasn't just like the random gang member. I had a whole nation under me. and I was just in and out the box, in and out the box, solitary confinement, which has been considered as unconstitutional now. and I remember just having these moments of reflection and just asking myself like, what are you going to do?

6 (44m 36s):
Can you spend the next 48 years living like this? and I said I couldn't do it. and I, I had lost all my privileges. They took everything from me. I was in Southport at the time, which is closed now. It's a solitary confinement facility in New, York state. And I was on a loaf, which is also unconstitutional now. So the loaf is a dietary restriction that they give you. It's a chunk of bread and it has cabbage and carrots in it. And they give you like a quarter of a cabbage and they give you a cup of milk when they can't take any more of your privileges. This is what they would give you six days out the week.

6 (45m 17s):
On the seventh day you would get a hot meal, breakfast, lunch, and dinner. And then they would go back for 21 days. They would do the six and one, six and one, six and one. and it was at that moment where I, I really said, I have to change my life.

3 (45m 33s):
I

6 (45m 33s):
Have to change my life. ICII just can't do this. I had a wife, I had family still. My son was growing up. He was hearing stories about my soul called notoriety. And I just didn't want to, I just didn't want to be that dad. Like I really was looking at myself and really evaluating, asking myself like, yo, what the fuck are you doing? I was still, I was smoking a lot of weed at the time. I was drinking jailhouse hooch and I was at my worst. and I and I had to real, I had to figure out how to get to my best.

6 (46m 15s):
So I decided to, when I got outta solitary confinement, I did 42 days on the loaf. I lo I went from two being 210 pounds to like 1 68 in like a matter of seven months deflated me. And when I got out, I made a decision that I was gonna walk away and I didn't care about what the consequences was. and I said to myself, I've been doing bad for so long, I'm gonna try to do something good. If all else fails, I could always go back to doing bad, but let me try, let me give it a shot. and I ended up getting to school program. I got my GEDI left the gangs alone, which was a benefit for them because, you know, I was what you call an authoritarian.

6 (47m 3s):
I was a rule guy. I'm, I'm still a rule guy. I like rules, you know, I like rules, I like structure, I like things to be a certain way. and it was to their advantage to get rid of me anyway. Plus I knew a lot of the guys who were at the top. Why was it to their advantage to get rid of you? Because I was the type of person who would say, you doing that. For what reason? Nah, you can't do that. The rule says that you can't do this, you can't do this. This is what the rules say. and I was the rules

3 (47m 33s):
Of the prison or the rules of

6 (47m 34s):
The rules of the gang. The rules of, of the

3 (47m 35s):
Streets.

6 (47m 36s):
Yeah, there was rules.

4 (47m 39s):
Give us a for instance,

6 (47m 41s):
Okay, so for instance, I could be in a whole nother facility. Let's say I'm in Green Haven and the guys in Attica and they want to do something to him because they feel like he's not sharing his proceeds of drugs that he's bringing into the facility. The rule say you can't do that, that's his property, that's his belongings. So I was a rule guy and they just, you know, it was to their advantage to get me out of the way. So when I decided to take a step back, they

3 (48m 14s):
Were like, yes.

6 (48m 17s):
And it was to my advantage as well. And this was in 2005. So

3 (48m 22s):
There was no resistance,

6 (48m 24s):
None. And at that time, this is where a lot of the, what they call set tripping began. The, the, the organization began to implode on itself.

3 (48m 36s):
The gang organization,

6 (48m 37s):
The gang organization. There was a lot of infighting sets against sets and I was just always against that. and it was time for me to go and I. I didn't care whatever the consequences was. I was fortunate that there weren't any consequences, but I didn't care what the consequences was. I just walked away.

4 (48m 57s):
And then that begins your journey.

6 (48m 59s):
This begins my journey. I got into school, I got my GED from there I got involved in correspondence courses. I started interacting with guys who were teaching a RT aggression replacement training. and I started to begin to understand how these concepts work. What's positive visualization is deep breathing, how to remove yourself, conflict resolution. All of these ideas of, of change began to take place with me. Substance abuse, I stopped smoking weed. I stopped smoking cigarettes. I was smoking like 30 cigarettes a day. I I mean I'm literally having chest pains from smoking cigarettes.

6 (49m 39s):
and I realized that I wanted to live. And the only way that I was gonna be able to live and walk out of prison was to remove myself from these substances. I had seen so many guys get carried out. I seen guys dying, not just from just being stabbed or with altercations from officers. I seen guys dying from one, one guy I knew. He used to drink so much hoop hooch. His, his liver failed on him one night he died in the cell that night. The morning when they came to do that count, he was frozen. He was stiff as a log. But these are the things that I was seeing. and I and I really, I was really in a situation where I had to ask myself, do I want to go out like that?

3 (50m 24s):
And

6 (50m 25s):
I didn't wanna go out like that.

3 (50m 27s):
Tell

6 (50m 27s):
Me about jailhouse hooch. How are they making that? So it's a bunch of ways they could make it. We could use fruit juice or, but a lot of guys use tomato paste, tomato paste, water and sugar. You need a kicker, which is like a, what they call a, like a mash. You would call it a mash. They call it a kicker. Get a plastic bag, you put it in a plastic bag, you let it blow up. It goes through the process. The carbon dioxide process. I did the whole, I did a whole paper on ethanol when I was in Cornell so that I could learn how to process was, and it's pretty good stuff if, especially if you distill it, but it's bad for you because it has, it has a component in it called methane and it goes straight to your brain.

6 (51m 17s):
But like, you know, in the streets when distillation place or facilities, they distill it, they remove that part of the alcohol, the methane. But in prison, guys just drink it. It's just like, You don't give a fuck. Or you make the fruit juice. Same thing. Plastic bag, sugar kicker mash.

4 (51m 39s):
What is the kicker?

6 (51m 40s):
The kicker is to accelerate the process.

4 (51m 42s):
I know. I know. But what does it consist of?

6 (51m 44s):
Usually like spoil fruit, some spoiled bread with mold on it. 'cause it, it, it begins the process of fermentation. It's like a mash.

4 (51m 55s):
So this shit's gotta be super

6 (51m 56s):
Toxic for you. Oh, super fucking dudes is dropping like

4 (52m 1s):
Flies, man. Like flies. Here's the, when when you hear like, going forward, what, how Sheldon changed his life, and not just the correspondence courses, but all of these various counseling programs, outreach programs, his connections to the outside world, which he'll talk about Is that the, the impossibly sick fucking twisted, horrifically sad irony to all of this is that it took prison to save him.

4 (52m 54s):
And why couldn't he be saved as a kid? That's what, what what I am really trying to sort of put energy towards. Now, when you asked him earlier, wasn't there counseling in the group home? And you know, if you see what this counseling is like, obviously I can't cast aspersions on every counselor in a group home across America. But you know, I've had people on, on, you know, the podcast with me and I'm listening to their anger management classes, right?

4 (53m 37s):
I won't mention who it is, but I'm listening to like the anger management class that they take and it's fucking, it's on Zoom. It's run by a guy that can't fucking turn his camera on. And it's like, it is, it's, it's bedlam. There's just people screaming, Hey man, I can't, I can't hear you. What the fuck did you just say what you hear? Not just the anger and the frustration, but the guy's inability to control the situation, to control the technology, let alone giving out, you know, real advice, real advice and constructive feedback on how different people are.

4 (54m 21s):
He's checking a box, this guy to do a job. Is that happening with everyone? It's not happening with everyone. But, but again, the the just the, the paradox here is that this, in this insane inhumane sentence actually saved Shelton. But why Aren weren't there, those programs that thought that implementation in his community to save him as a kid, right? Right. And I don't just take cases, you know, at the Perlmutter Center where I'm the executive director, the Perlmutter senator for legal justice at Cardozo Law School, we get a massive amount of mail and we get a lot of people calling us to help out on cases.

4 (55m 14s):
I want to help as many people as we can, but people that I think can succeed or that we could help succeed when they get out and you know, on paper you can see pretty quickly what somebody has done with their time. You know, I've sat with people in institutions all over the country where I said, well, what programs are you in? and I feel like an idiot asking because I'd be a fucking puddle on the floor if I, I asked him many times, how often did you cry? How did you extract yourself from the gang?

4 (55m 56s):
How did you sleep at night with the, with the noise? Sheldon told me about this thing called a human harpoon that people make at a magazines and a sharpened toothbrush. And can you, can you fucking the mind fuck on this. You, they, they stiffen the pages of a magazine with toothpaste, soap, water, let it dry, let it dry so that they could basically work it into a rod. You keep on working the paper between your hands and then you attach with soap newspaper a sharpened toothbrush handle or bone at the end of it or what,

6 (56m 42s):
Or a bone

4 (56m 43s):
Or a bone from a, something that they ate in the mess from

6 (56m 47s):
Something that you ate in

4 (56m 47s):
Mess and then you're walking past their cell and you're all of a sudden you get fucking stabbed with a harpoon. So I'm thinking or throw or a feces thrown on you. So I'm trying to like process all of that and to be able to navigate that hell and come out

6 (57m 11s):
To this

4 (57m 11s):
Heaven half halfway, halfway sane. And, and I'm just, I, I'm, you know, I'm so, it like, it hurts me deep in my fucking guts to hear that I'm hearing you talk and then I'm thinking this is what it it took to save you. When I, I think about, you know, he was 10 years old, my son's 11. And that it's, it's hard to listen to and yeah, it's hard to process that you were able to have that wherewithal to sit a day in solitary confinement, let alone 42 days.

5 (57m 52s):
And so your process, when you decide that you're gonna try to do good, like what, how difficult was the process of trying to,

6 (58m 4s):
It was

5 (58m 4s):
Lonely, establish an education.

6 (58m 6s):
It was lonely. I had a, you know, on one side I had the guys who I used to run with saying, the fuck is he doing? And then I had the guys who were actually doing good just watching me to see if I was going to crumble or fail or, or you know, you had a handful of guys that, that, that committed me and say, yo, I applaud you, you know, I got you man. If you need some help, I can help you do this or I can help you do that. But, you know, I just, I felt like everybody, the world was watching, including my family. 'cause they didn't believe it up until the point to where I graduated from Cornell. My cousin told me, she said, she said, you know, when you called me and invited me to the graduation, she said, I didn't believe it.

6 (58m 52s):
I didn't believe nothing you had told me prior for the last 10 years or anything that you said you did until I saw you at that graduation. So, you know, I had family, I had everybody just kind of just waiting for me to fail. But I, I just felt like I was just determined to succeed. I just had this, I just had this, this energy in my spirit and I just, and it was the, it was the, it was the will to live, as far as I'm concerned. It was the will to live. I, I had read when I was in solitary confinement, I read Viktor Frankl's, man Search For Meaning. And one of the things that's, that, that struck me as being so powerful, he says, if you have a why, Then you have a reason to, to live.

6 (59m 37s):
And this is a guy who was in a concentration camp during the Holocaust, and he found a reason to live. He found a reason, and I and I, and I'm sitting there in, in the cell, and I'm asking myself,

3 (59m 51s):
Do you

6 (59m 51s):
Have a fucking reason to live?

3 (59m 54s):
I,

6 (59m 57s):
You know, and I think about my family. And, and that was my reason. and I, and I and I wanted to beat the system. And that was my way of beating the system. I'm not gonna let you motherfuckers kill me.

3 (1h 0m 14s):
I,

6 (1h 0m 16s):
And that was my spirit. and I knew it was only one way for me to accomplish that. So, like I said, I started going to school. I did the correspondence courses. I got Involved in the Cornell Prison Education Program. I obtained my associate's degree, and then I went on to obtain my, my beha, my bachelor's in Behavioral Science for Mercy. And, but it, you know, in, in this process, I'm, you know, I'm, I'm going through, I'm mentoring other young men, you know, now guys are looking at me and saying, hold on, wait a minute, man, this, this guy is, is onto something. I got guys on both sides now saying, yo, can you help me?

6 (1h 0m 57s):
I started working in the law library. I, I discovered that I had a knack for complicated things, case law, and I was helping guys. and I was actually helping guys get out of prison. and I started running the programs. and I think that's something,

3 (1h 1m 13s):
What, what pro what programs

6 (1h 1m 15s):
Did you run? So I ran aggression replacement training. And

3 (1h 1m 18s):
How many years in did you start doing this?

6 (1h 1m 23s):
About nine years in, eight years in, I got arrested in 19 2, 19 97. And about 2005, I, this is when I started to make my transitions about eight years in. and it felt good. It felt good. It felt good to be able to call my family and send them pictures and invite them to these events where they can actually see me change. They could see actual, tangible change. It felt good to, to, for the guys that I knew that were coming to me and asking me for help, I was helping guys with their GEDs.

6 (1h 2m 6s):
I was, I became a tutor in the program. And the rewards that I felt, you know, it, it didn't even matter anymore about when I was gonna get out, right? It was just now about how can I help other people not go through what I went through and wait so long? Because I feel like I wish I had somebody that would've came along at a, at a, at a earlier stage, and like he said, don't wait till I fall. Catch me before I fall. And that's part of my motto. Now, in some of the work that we do at the Queen's Defenders, the alternatives to incarceration, and this is why I'm so passionate about a lot of the work that I do now.

6 (1h 2m 50s):
I'm trying to catch these kids before they fall. I don don't wanna wait till they fall and I wanna show them the way. and I and I feel like I'm a credible messenger because when they see me, they know that I came from the same place they come from. Like, like, like Josh was saying earlier, right? There's a difference between being qualified and certified, right? You could read a hundred books about drug drug abuse, but how qualified are you to really tell somebody who's sick on heroin and they're ready to do anything that they can for a bag of dope or what you went through? You, you can't. And, and, and this, this experience is, is priceless.

4 (1h 3m 35s):
You said it way better than I did. Certified versus qualified. And that's why, you know, I'm just sitting back watching the work that Sheldon is doing now. He's, what, what's your official title at the Queen's Defenders

6 (1h 3m 52s):
Client Advocate? And we just created the, the Yelp, we titled it Yelp, me and two other brothers that I was incarcerated with, formerly Bruce Bryant and Rashad Rouhani with client advocates. We run the Youth Emergent Leadership Program, and we work directly with the district attorneys and the judges at the courts dealing with the alternative to incarceration program. A lot of the young kids that catch the gun charges, we bring them into our program. We help them with job readiness training, whether it's OSHA training, we help 'em get their GEDs. We direct them to different programs.

6 (1h 4m 33s):
Like we got a program called Hood Coding. And this is also a guy who's previously incarcerated, and he teach coding. He teaches coding to younger kids inside the inner cities in the projects like

4 (1h 4m 45s):
Coding, as in computer coding,

6 (1h 4m 46s):
Like computer coding. He teaches coding. And, and we, we get them into our program. We help them with their resumes because one of the main things we realize is that outside of everything else, a lot of these kids, they, they're, they're impoverished. They don't have nothing, you know, so we wanna be able to try to help them with some type of employment, right? That's number one. And then we take 'em through our program. We have a 36 week 10 point program. It deals with conflict resolution, it deals with knowing your rights, how to have a conversation with an officer. One of the things that I, that I take pride in, while I was incarcerated, I was also in the theater program. I played Macbeth on the stage.

6 (1h 5m 30s):
I also was on the debate team. We debated against Stanford, Harvard, and Yale on the topic of the future of automation. And we crushed them. But one of the things I learned in those, in those arenas is critical thinking and critical analysis, right? How do you critically think about a situation? And also looking back, I realized something about myself is that I did not have a term that I coined called situational cognizance, right? As a kid, for some reason, I felt like I was not able to see the long-term consequences of my behavior. It was like a wall there.

6 (1h 6m 10s):
and I think, I think a lot of these younger kids are also suffering from the same thing. They don't. And the system sets you up to, to, to the system tricks you, because you, you, you, you catch these cases and what they do is they slap you on a wrist, right? You catch this gun charge and they say, oh no, we just gonna give you six months. Don't worry about it. What they don't tell you is that gun charges is a pretext now to enhance your sentence when you catch another case. So it's almost like a form of entrapment, right? And a lot of these kids don't understand that. They think that these cases that they're catching are just going to disappear. They don't realize that there's a paper trail being established that's being created.

6 (1h 6m 51s):
There's a profile being created against you. And when you reach a certain threshold, there's a term that I like to say, they're gonna knock your fucking head off and you're gonna find yourself. A lot of these kids find themselves in situations where they get 25 years for an assault.

4 (1h 7m 8s):
You remember? Scared straight. Yeah. All right. I think the effectiveness of scared straight was because of the messenger. So you're seeing the change right now. And this is not meant to, to, you know, blow sunshine up your ass. 'cause you get plenty of that and you deserve it. But it's, it's the, I I was in like a situation last time I was here where I felt a little bit hopeless. And now I'm, I'm more, I'm trending toward more hopeful because Bruce Bryan, who was on the show, is a client advocate at the Queen's Defenders.

4 (1h 7m 50s):
And I don't wear that as a feather in my cap. That was just me. It was validation that if I get behind this man and give him new life, do my part in it. Lord knows there were others, Steve Zeidman at CUNY Law School, you know?

6 (1h 8m 12s):
And if it wasn't for, in all honesty, I I, I'm, I'm, I'm adamant about to this day, if it wasn't for Josh and Allison Hawk actually going to, and, and Derek as well, Derek Hamilton speaking to the district attorney, like we were at a plateau where they just didn't, they just was like, nah,

4 (1h 8m 30s):
But, but don don't want it to be about me at all. Here's what I wanted to say is that you now are seeing the connections. And so, you know, legal aid was representing Bruce. There was a, an army of people so that all believed that he could make change happen and do positive things when he got out. So now he's a client advocate at the Queen's Defenders doing this kind of work, trying to explain to judges this person, don't let them be another Sheldon Johnson. Don't let them be another me or Derek Hamilton. They deserve counseling. They deserve a second chance. They deserve to help really be rehabilitated.

4 (1h 9m 14s):
And then Sheldon comes over and starts working at the Queen Defender Queen's Defenders, which is the, it's like the, you know, the appointed counsel for people that can't afford an attorney. They're criminal defense lawyers. So to watch them out there advocating and trying to change, you know, hearts and minds about the community, you have to be on the ground doing it and getting in front of people. And I, I I know I said it before, look at the, you know, I'm very thoughtful in who I bring with me. Look at this beautiful mind and how he articulates himself and educated himself.

4 (1h 9m 57s):
And you want to tell me that this couldn't have happened earlier. He doesn't need anyone's sympathy and he's not asking for it. It's something I admire quite a bit about him. Whenever anybody, you know, he doesn't want poor Sheldon, you know, how, how could you have gone through this? And he stops him. I've seen him do it right in their tracks. Listen, I did what, I just don't know that my life was worth throwing away. But to watch them now, on the other side of it, the change that we talked about that I'm like, how do we change it? How do we do it? It's starting to happen. Could we use Jeff Bezos to sit down and, and think through how we can build a community center in East New York in Harlem?

4 (1h 10m 47s):
Yeah, we could. The the means are out there to do it. All it takes is one person listening to This episode that tells someone that knows someone. And then, you know, progress is starting to happen and we can just do it on the ground. But the reason why I mentioned scared straight is because, sure, I could go in there and talk to these kids. They're not gonna fucking listen to me. They're just not, I, I might be certified, but I'm not

6 (1h 11m 18s):
Qualified.

4 (1h 11m 19s):
Right? and I didn't, I didn't, I can't, I can sympathize, but I can't empathize. You know, I go through that talking sometimes, like, you know, tough fighters that I manage, right? I do with Shakur Stevenson, you know, he's like a little brother to me. I love him. Sometimes I feel like he, he, you know, the message might be better coming from Jay Prince than it is for me, because he's more qualified. I try to wrap my head around what Shakur went through as a kid and growing up in Newark and the circumstance. But he, you know, I think that there is a disconnect and I have to be big enough to recognize that and say, yeah, you know, maybe I'm not the right person, but, you know, you're telling me he's not gonna inspi and they're doing it.

4 (1h 12m 10s):
They're getting judges to change their mind. They're getting prosecutors to think twice.

6 (1h 12m 15s):
We just got one guy, he, he shot at his brother without going into the details of his case, he has attempted murder charge. And, and we now have him in our program. They originally were talking about giving him 15 years. He's been in our program for a couple of months. We, we set him up, we help him get his resume. He's, he's working towards his GED and he's in the Hood coding program. We also have him in an aggression replacement training program. And now the district attorney is considering giving him five years probation. So they went from 15 years, and this kid is doing amazing.

6 (1h 12m 55s):
Like he's just picking up the coatings. The guy that I spoke to, he, he said that this, this kid is just, is like a sponge. He's just soaking it up so fast. But this is just one example of how we kind of level the playing field and create opportunities. I think that key, you spoke, that word you spoke about earlier is, is so crucial to the context of this conversation. Opportunities, right? How do we create the opportunities for these kids to be able to provide living in New, York City? Ain't no joke, man. The cost of living is, is, is ridiculous. So how do we create these opportunities? How do we, so now we're also, what we're doing, we going to the schools, we talking to the teachers, we're talking to the teachers and the principals, and we asking them, we are not even gonna wait till you get to the courtroom.

6 (1h 13m 45s):
We are asking the teachers and the principals, who in your classroom do you think needs help? Which kids in your classroom are the most giving you the most trouble? And they give us the names and we go and we talk to them and we try, we getting them involved in our program. But it's all about opportunity. And well,

5 (1h 14m 5s):
Kids sometimes need to see someone not, not sometimes always need to see someone who's done something from a similar situation. Yeah. Where they realize like, there's a path out of this. Yeah. Because if You don't see a path out of this, you just see a path towards doing what the other people in your environment are doing. And that's how all human beings react. If you're in a bad environment with a bad group of human beings, the chances of you going down that same path are extraordinary.

6 (1h 14m 34s):
Learn behavior.

5 (1h 14m 36s):
Yes. And from someone like you, they can see this is not a given. There's a way to do this. There's a way to get out of this. And there's a guy who's already gone the wrong way who could say, you know what, I figured it out and I'm gonna help you. And the difference between someone like you saying it versus some uninspired counselor is massive. It's massive. and it speaks to you and your character that you want to do this, that you've dedicated yourself to doing this. That's where real change comes from. That's, that's where real help comes from. Real help comes from someone, as you said, who's qualified to do it,

6 (1h 15m 15s):
Comes from the same place that you came from and that you can identify, because I, being able to identify is, is, is, is a critical component. Like you said, like, you know, this, this is, is this someone who can identify, empathize with what I'm going through, where I'm at right now in my life. Like a lot of the young kids, they're, they're, they're involved in, in, in the gangs. And we have this, this, this culturalization program, right? Where we are trying to teach them, because in, in many of our communities, the gangs have become a part of the culture. Like you, you have parents who are gang members. You got the kids who are in communities and, and, and, and it's just, it's, it's just saturated with gang culture, language, dress, music, food, everything else.

6 (1h 16m 8s):
So we trying to extract them out of these places and say, okay, these, this is something that you can do differently. We are taking them to different places. We are taking them to HBCU so that they can see what people, who look like them, look like when they're going to college. This can be you. This is some of the, take 'em into classrooms to meet with the professors. We have a, a, a financial literacy course where Chase Bank actually works with us and we teach them how to establish credit, how to open up a checking account, how to open up a savings account. And at the end of that particular five week program, we actually take them to the bank and we give them $25 so that they can open up their own bank account so that they can understand the difference between the money that you obtain from the streets.

6 (1h 16m 54s):
And the money that you get working legitimately is two different kinds of money. You can't appreciate the money that you get from the streets, but that money that you've been working all week for eight hours a day, 40 hours a week, at the end of the weekend, you can see that direct deposit when it goes into your account, you can take that card and you can actually utilize it to, to withdraw your money out the bank. That's a big difference. Civic engagement. You know how, how, how can some of these kids feel like they have a voice in their communities when they're not making no decisions in their communities? We go into the rallies, we take 'em to the rallies outta Albany. Yesterday they went to a rally last week we went to a rally about treatment, not jails.

6 (1h 17m 38s):
How to set up what they call diversion courts for people who have substance abuse problems, instead of sending them to prison, they need treatment. And the money that they save is clear. It's clear when you do the math, the money that you save, the, it costs almost up to $70,000 to incarcerate one person.

5 (1h 18m 1s):
But then there's the issue of privatized prisons. Oh,

6 (1h 18m 4s):
That's, oh, that's,

5 (1h 18m 5s):
Which is insane. That's

6 (1h 18m 6s):
Disturbing.

5 (1h 18m 6s):
It's so disturbing. They're disturb they're using human beings as batteries to generate money. That's what it's

4 (1h 18m 12s):
Like. Yeah. We're trying to, we're trying to take the charge out of their battery. We're trying to pull the plug outta the wall because, you know, this is, these aren't controversial statistics, and I'm not gonna start spewing them, but we incarcerate at a rate that is dwarfs any other western country, any other civilized, any, anywhere in the world, really anywhere. So in any event, I was, you know, doing a relative comparison. So how do we put those privatized prisons at a business? You know, we have to start, you know, on the ground and for, you know, it's almost like a, a a rallying cry to myself.

4 (1h 18m 56s):
'cause we get a lot of, not a rallying cry to myself, but the way I got from being a little less intimidated by the mountain to climb was taking a step back really after the last episode and saying, well, what have we done and how have we changed things? Listen, I wasn't born a civil rights lawyer that was working on innocence cases. I have a, a trial strategy company called DRC. We do focus groups mock trials on big cases, right? Try to unfold the thinking of jurors in a jurisdiction where the case is gonna be tried.

4 (1h 19m 39s):
Then we make demonstrative aids and we are alleged experts in jury selection. And that became a platform. I said, how can we use this as a platform now that I'm operating in the Perlmutter Center as well. So just being in the boxing industry, speaking to the Jay-Z's team at Rock Nation and Jay-Z and his mom, how can we do this? And we, he has something called the Sean Carter Foundation. It's a remarkable, it, it flies way under the radar. Have you ever heard of it? Yes. All right. Do you know what it does? Not exactly. All right. So it's kind of, it, it it's kind of remarkable that people know it because of his name and they've heard it, but no one really knows like what it does.

4 (1h 20m 28s):
They take children from really, from the all over the country. A lot of 'em are in the Tri-state area that have difficult circumstances. A lot of 'em come from single family households, and they, they not, they're not just mentoring them from high school, but they are trying to do some of the things that Sheldon talked about. They do a college tour. It's run by a woman named Donya Diaz, and really Gloria Carter and a woman named Miss Archer and I. I saw what they were doing, and I said, if we took these kids and created a fellowship program where we pay their last year of college, and five of them do it every summer and work on wrongful conviction cases at my consulting firm at DRC, and also are a resource to my students who are taking an internship for the Perlmutter Center and are working on wrongful conviction cases and have them start a social media campaign.

4 (1h 21m 36s):
They spearheaded the free Bruce Bryant social media campaign and watching this program, these kids, if they're given the opportunity, three of them now work for me full time. One of them is the mail intake coordinator at the Perlmutter Center for Legal Justice. So she is receiving mail from inmates and helping screen which cases we might wanna investigate. Her name is Elia McFarland. There's a old girl that works at my firm doing advertising and publicity. Her name is Jalen Madre. She, she made a presentation to me the other day. I was fucking blown away that this girl was, she was passionate about marketing, not advertising marketing.

4 (1h 22m 25s):
And she works at my consulting firm and she made a presentation to me, you know, that had a level of detail and ideas about how we can become, you know, increase our awareness and I. I was just thinking to myself, you know, alright, so this is the change that we're making happen. And it was just an idea that I had. I didn't actually think that Jay-Z and his mom and Donya would go for it. So I was reluctant to pitch them the idea and just being able to say, well, what do you have to lose by, you know, putting it out there. And they have been remarkably supportive.

4 (1h 23m 6s):
So I think that like, there's a lot of people that want help. Yeah. You know, Sheldon and I were talking about it before we came and we all, we often think like, how can listeners help? There is not, if you have an idea, like I had, just try to put the next foot in front of the foot that's behind you and just keep walking forward and don't be afraid to ask. There is not a, a public defender's office in this country. There is not a civic engagement organization that if you call them and say, I wanna volunteer or I'm interested in helping, that will turn you away. You just have to say, all right, I could sit here and talk about it and, you know,

6 (1h 23m 51s):
Until it happens to you. Right. You know, we talk about not to cut you off, right? No,

4 (1h 23m 57s):
I, I need cutting off

6 (1h 23m 58s):
To somebody. You talk about like the, remember the opioid crisis, right? You know, it's been an opioid crisis in my community since I could remember people were dying off heroin and it didn't become an issue until it was affecting white America. Right. But my thing is, had you dealt with it from the beginning, it would've never became a situation later on. So it's this idea where people, we have a tendency to say, okay, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm just gonna turn away and I'm not gonna pay attention to it. I'm gonna turn a blind eye. I'm gonna act like it doesn't exist until it hits home. And then sometime when it hits home, it's too late.

4 (1h 24m 35s):
Yeah. Like, I, I think it takes like something to happen to somebody for them to become an advocate, right? Michael J. Fox wasn't a Parkinson's advocate until it happened for, but that's great that he decided to do that. Absolutely remarkable. But I think that Sheldon makes a great point, right? We we're a society of, we're a society that likes to sit back and, and complain. We

6 (1h 25m 5s):
Wanna react instead of responding.

4 (1h 25m 8s):
Like, one of my favorite things to do is I, like, I have severe anxiety about dying and, but for whatever reason, maybe this balances me out at an airport when a flight gets canceled, even if it's hopefully my flight. Not hopefully, but I get a better view of it if it's my flight to watch people stand up and, and, you know, get frustrated, berate raise their voice at, at the fucking ticket attendant. I, I, it's, it's a remarkable exercise in, it's a social experiment.

4 (1h 25m 53s):
I think that if people really, like, were able to hover over the room and watch themselves, they'd be like, what? Why am I yelling at the ticket attendant? There's only two real possible abilities of, of why this plane is not gonna fly on time. There's either a mechanical problem or weather. Do you wanna fly in either of those situations, you know, and to watch people just like, you know, complain and they get don don't know what they're getting out of it. But I, I just find myself le trying to a be have an awareness about myself not to do that. And rather than get intimidated by the problem, try to just keep putting one foot in front of another and then when the flight gets canceled, maybe I could read something interesting and catch up it's inconvenient or come up with an idea.

4 (1h 26m 45s):
I mean, trust me, I'm an average guy of average intelligence that just, I think I have like more tenacity. So don don't, if I can help make some of this stuff happened, other people can make it happen. and I, I Sheldon asked me, should I go to law school before we came here? and I said, I can't, I, I changed my mind by the way. I might have an opinion now, but I told them like, most of the lawyers that I find that are most effective aren't the smartest. They're not the savviest. They possess something that most lawyers don't, which is common sense and street smarts.

4 (1h 27m 32s):
And they marry that with what they learned in school. And they're able to sort of, that perfect stew, I think is what leads to a successful advocate, counselor, attorney, whatever you are. And oftentimes there's so much of an emphasis placed on your grades and what score did you get and how much of that really ends up fucking mattering At the end of the day, it matters. But does it matter to the degree, to the degree we place an emphasis on it in our society? I'm not sure, but my, my whole thing is rather than like be intimidated by the problem, I think it, it's recognizing that it exists.

4 (1h 28m 17s):
Just decide one discreet thing you want to do to try to help make a change happen. And then, you know, again, just try to get some forward momentum. And you'd be surprised that at the buy-in that you get, I think that that's why this platform is so important because it, it allows people to start sharing ideas reaching out to us and we're taking them up on it. I've told you before, we've been contacted by, you know, a major law firm, Greenberg Tig, and you know, a really awesome attorney that's working on the case of Pierre Rushing. This guy Jordan Grosinger, who's just a, he was a corporate attorney, had nothing to do with this kind of work, listened the podcast.

4 (1h 29m 3s):
He's a passionate, passionate advocate and, and he's gonna get justice one of these days for Peter Rushing. We've, we've tried to help apply pressure through this show by having people reach out to the DA and, and write letters on his behalf. And it's, it's, you know, has it worked yet? It's working. We're gonna get there at some point. So, you know, that's my objective, you know, with do with continuing to do these stories, because you're right, the, the privatization of prisons and the industrial prison complex that, is that a solvable problem?

4 (1h 29m 44s):
No, I'm not sure. I think it's, I I think that it's too much of a giant to slay unless we start pulling the electrodes, not the Neuralink electrodes pulling the electrodes out of the sockets and taking energy out of it as much as we can until they're like, well, we don't have any fucking

6 (1h 30m 8s):
Sa sa you begin sabotaging pieces of the machine, right? Because, you know, a lot of these, these, these corporations are what you call well-oiled machines, right? And it's like a watch when you open up a watch, you see so many intricate pieces, right? And, and if, and if you sometimes if you, if you break the right piece in the watch, the whole, the whole watch ceases to, to, to keep time. And it's just, you know, it's just a poor excuse for, it's like putting a bandaid on, on, on a gunshot wound, you know, for for, for, for the government to allow these corporations to privatize and say, okay, okay, it's not our problem anymore.

6 (1h 30m 50s):
We're gonna pass the buck and, and let somebody else deal with it. Now you have these corporations who they really don't, they really don't care about, you know, rights and humanity and, and cruel and unusual punishment and due process. They don't care about none of this stuff. Well,

5 (1h 31m 7s):
To allow it to exist in the first place, you have to ignore that people will be incentivized like every other industry, like the pharmaceutical industry, like the military, industrial complex, like everything else. Once they start acting as a corporation, which all corporations, it is in their best interest to try to maximize the amount of profits they make. Always, if they have shareholders, it's their responsibility to those shareholders to maximize profits with each quarter. Now, when that happens with human beings and prisons, you can bet your fucking sweet ass, they're gonna lock as many people up as they can. That's a fact. And we know

4 (1h 31m 45s):
Their commodity.

5 (1h 31m 46s):
We know for a fact that happened. And we know for a fact that prison guard unions, they, they work hard to make sure that laws are not changed that will incarcerate people for petty drug offenses.

6 (1h 31m 57s):
Big business.

5 (1h 31m 58s):
Big business.

6 (1h 31m 59s):
Like for example, I was supposed to go testify at a congressional senate hearing on what they call slave wages. Right? So you have this corporation called Court Craft. I don't know how familiar you are with Court Craft.

5 (1h 32m 13s):
Is that when they use prisoners? Yes,

6 (1h 32m 15s):
Yes. They use prisoners and Auburn. They make license plates and Clinton Correctional Facility. They make mattresses and t-shirts and underwears each

5 (1h 32m 24s):
Facility. I was just reading an article today about that. I was just reading an article today about food manufacturers that use prisoners to sell commercial food. Yeah. And they, they, they essentially work as slaves.

6 (1h 32m 38s):
That's quick chill. So you have different, you have a whole bunch of different entities under this one large umbrella. Right? and I remember I was getting paid 17 cent an hour at one point in time, 19 cent an hour, and, you know, for, for operating these big machines. And they were producing just like a mass amount of core craft is actually a Fortune 500 corporation. And they function, they, they, they, they regulate out of the prison industrial complex. There

5 (1h 33m 10s):
It is. US Prison is part of a hidden workforce linked to hundreds of popular food brands. Yeah. Fuck

6 (1h 33m 17s):
Frosted Flakes. You know, so a lot of times we walk into the supermarket and we see these products and we don't realize, like, you know, what's going into, you know, making these products. Like you hear about these slave shops in China and all of this stuff. And you know, people campaign to say, oh, well, we're not gonna support that. Right? But what are you actually supporting here in your own country? Right, right Now,

5 (1h 33m 40s):
Un unbeknownst

6 (1h 33m 41s):
To you. Unbeknownst to you, right? Yeah.

5 (1h 33m 43s):
And I mean that if you have a label on everything you buy, like this may contain harmful substances. This may be bad for your health.

6 (1h 33m 52s):
GMOs,

5 (1h 33m 52s):
Why the fuck don't you have a label? This is made by prisoners. This is made by people making 13 cents an hour or whatever. It's Yeah. Why, how do you not have that? Because wouldn't that change the way people would buy things?

4 (1h 34m 3s):
Well, and it, and it, you know, the most important

5 (1h 34m 7s):
Look at this, including countries that, okay, so the goods are prisoners produce wind up in the supply chains of a dizzying array of products found in most American kitchens from frosted flake cereals, ballpark hot dogs to gold metal flour, Coca-Cola and Riceland Rice. They're on the shelves of virtually every supermarket in the country, including Kroger, target, Aldi, and Whole Foods. Some goods are exported, including the countries that have had products blocked from entering the US for using forced or prison label. Wild

6 (1h 34m 41s):
13th Amendment.

5 (1h 34m 42s):
Yep, exactly.

6 (1h 34m 44s):
Slavery and involuntary servitude except as punishment for a crime and I, we go back to Jim Crow. That's what they did. Yes. When, right after, after the Emancipation Proclamation post antebellum, you know, they created this, this, these laws to convict the freed slaves so that they can continue to force them into free labor, right? Yeah. and it just continues today, like 13th cent hour, 17th cent hour, 19th cent hour during the pandemic, great medals correctional facility, had these guys working 24 hours a day making hand sanitizers and masks.

4 (1h 35m 22s):
That place is the scariest fucking place. That

6 (1h 35m 25s):
Place traumatized me.

4 (1h 35m 26s):
That, that place is like, it was one of the first prisons that I went to in New York State to visit with a potential client. And I almost peed down my leg. I mean it looks like, feels like, is like what you saw in the Shawshank Redemption.

6 (1h 35m 44s):
It's worse than Attica.

4 (1h 35m 45s):
Hey, hey, check this out. What, what you're seeing on the screen is not some new thing. You know, speaking of the Shawshank Redemption, Stephen King writes a lot that is rooted. I'm not talking about Cujo, I'm not talking about, you know, his horror writing, his short stories. Most of them are rooted in some sort of truth. Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption was a short story that he wrote that ended up getting made, I think it was part of Apt Pupil or one of his books of short stories. And you remember in the Shawshank Redemption where they had this precise thing where it was, they came up with this idea, you know, the warden came up with an idea for a work program where they were profiting that that was true back then.

4 (1h 36m 30s):
He was basing that on something that was happening in the northeast back then. So, you know, the notion that this is still happening shouldn't be that shocking. It's just like, what is, what is our news cycle? Pay attention to, you know, and, you know, and how do you, how do you make sure that this kind of stuff doesn't keep happening? My idea is you need people on the ground that are working on policy and reform. So at the Perlmutter Center for Legal Justice at Cardozo, we have a policy advisor. Her name is Sarah Chu, who knows forensics.

4 (1h 37m 12s):
She's a scientist. And like one of the more respected, or in my mind, the most respected reform advocate about how we stop using junk science, like bite marks and, and, and, you know, blood splatter, well, blood spatter, ballistics, even fingerprints to some extent conversation

6 (1h 37m 29s):
We was

4 (1h 37m 30s):
Having earlier. Yeah. And lobbying to make sure that laws get changed. And, you know, it's like, at the end of the day, the scariest part about all of this is that the politicians that we poke fun at, I poke fun at everybody has a a field day. These are the fucking people. These are the people that are sitting in some white fucking building, the prosecutors at your state capitol. And

6 (1h 37m 56s):
The prosecutors are

4 (1h 37m 57s):
The worst man. And well, but before you get to the prosecutors, these are the people writing the laws. These are the people writing the statutes. They need to be influenced by people like Sarah Chu, other great people that work in policy and reform advocate. There's a woman named Rebecca Brown. Her and Sarah Chu both used to be at the Innocence Project. Sarah came to work with me. Rebecca Brown is a great one that are working boots on the ground and trying to change and educate really I mean. How much does your, your local representative or a state senator really know about how dangerous it could be to draw conclusions about the directionality of how blood hits drywall versus how it hits Lucite.

4 (1h 38m 47s):
How bite marks leave an indent indentation on someone's skin. You could, I could a qualified certified actually strike qualified a certified tologist, totally total horse shit could take one of these skulls and make the same case that the bite marks left on someone's leg came from this set of teeth, Sheldon's teeth, your teeth or my teeth. And convince four juries four times a hundred percent of the time that

6 (1h 39m 25s):
You're guilty, that you're

4 (1h 39m 27s):
Guilty. and it was you that do a skilled ologist could do that. So when, when bite marks were, you know, became subject of a, of, of a report that everybody should read, the National Academy of Sciences did a report in 2009 that should have changed our criminal justice system. It had the most, the most qualified certified scientists from all over the world study all of these disciplines of forensic evidence, all of these disciplines of forensic science, and come to the conclusions that none of them, none of them were supported by scientifically a scientifically credible body of evidence.

4 (1h 40m 11s):
They weren't, there was no repeatability, there was no reliability. The scientific method that you learn in grade school could, you could apply it to any of them and they would all fail the test,

6 (1h 40m 21s):
Which are the standards for admissions at trial.

4 (1h 40m 24s):
And it talked about still, it talks about the standards for admissions at trial, the Daubert standard, the Fry standard. It's just, is it credible in the scientific community? And they come to a resounding no on everything except for DNA and DNA is still fraught right now because there are all these new technologies. I shake your hand this morning and then I later pick up a knife and, you know, stab someone and your DNA ends up on the knife from

6 (1h 40m 51s):
A sweater in his

4 (1h 40m 52s):
Hand. Yeah. Because there is such sensitive, what they call low copy or touch DNA that can now be detective that can now be detected. And the mixture can be untangled and they can say, well, Joe Rogan's, DNA is on the knife. Where was he at this time? There's a case of a guy named Emmanuel Fair in Seattle where he was implicated in a murder because he was at a party on Halloween when this girl got murdered. He ended up getting, you know, sitting in, in prison for I think seven or eight years before he finally got acquitted. So this report should have turned forensic science on its head, and no one gives a fuck bite mark evidence until

6 (1h 41m 35s):
It hits home.

4 (1h 41m 36s):
Well, bite mark evidence is still admissible in all 50 states. So I mean, you know, look, we could sit, I could sit and bang my head against the wall about it, or I could, you know, just keep on speaking up. When you're in front of a judge, how often Sheldon do you hear from a, an attorney? Well, I don't wanna piss off the judge

6 (1h 41m 56s):
All the time. You are

4 (1h 41m 57s):
Right. Your, your absolute obligation when you're defending someone is to, is to piss off the judge if they're not doing their job,

6 (1h 42m 7s):
You know, is to, to, to protect their rights, their constitutional rights. That's what the, that's what the Constitution was designed for. And it's so interesting when you think about the Constitution, right, and the founding fathers and, and the Bill of Rights and how it has just transferred over hundreds of years into today, and how our rights are still fundamentally protected. But you know, when we talk about, when we talk about rights, there's two different worlds. Like, you know, his rights and my rights may be two different kinds of rights because of where we come from. And because the color of our skin, unfortunately, ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. And you, and you constantly keep hitting on the fact that, you know, why do you wait for a problem to end up at your doorstep before you decide to do something about it?

6 (1h 42m 58s):
You know, you have, like he said, you have people at all of these different organizations. Reach out Google is, is very effective. I've, I've only been home nine months and I've, I've pretty much learned how to, how to navigate Google pretty good, better than most. And, and I, you know, and it, it's, it's, it's actually pretty easy to be able to find different organizations. Like he talks about the people at his organization, Sarah Chu, and we have Gina Mitchell at, at Queens Defenders who is our policy and coordinator. And we work on so many different subjects. Reach out, reach out. Change is real. but it has to, it has to begin somewhere.

6 (1h 43m 39s):
You have to just be willing to take a step forward. It doesn't matter where you from, how old you are, Republican, democrat, rich, poor, black, white, it doesn't matter. You know, we, we, I I, I, I look like, I took a picture of a guy, a homeless guy on a train station a couple of days ago, and I posted it on my Instagram page and, and, and, and it just blows me away how, and I'm, and I'm just gonna be straight up, I'm, I'm kind of, I have a issue with the whole immigration thing because I feel like, like he said, like Joe said earlier, like, you have $70 million that you can give to a whole nother country, yet, you know, you are not addressing the issues right here at home right now.

6 (1h 44m 23s):
Like, you know, I worked for department of homeless shelters, like I've worked in there, I've seen it with my own two eyes. Like, and then you have citizens, you have veterans that come back from wars and can't even get the same services that people from other countries come here and get immediately. They get housing vouchers, they get education vouchers to everything like, you know, make America great again. If you're gonna make America great again, focus on the people, the citizens, the people who put you in office. It's just don don't know. It's like, you know,

4 (1h 45m 0s):
What does that even mean? Look, I've been reading, I've been reading this book called Thinking Fast and Slow. Have you heard It's a no fucking phenomenal. But I, I highly recommend it. It's about how your brain works and, and why we believe what we believe and the, the two systems of our brain. And one is the quick judgment and the other is the slow it down and critically think about it. And there are all these, you know, puzzles in it where he makes the point by saying, like, consider the following and the studies that have been done on someone just repeating the same words over and over again and how that translates into people feeling that it's a credible, and b, that the person uttering the words has some credibility or, or astounding just by keeping make 'em I mean.

4 (1h 45m 58s):
Trump might be, in my opinion, a little nuts. But he's, you know, or a little crazy. He's crazy like a fox though. He knows if he keeps on saying those words, those those words are gonna stick. If he keeps saying witch hunt, people are gonna start repeating it and they do. So, you know, maybe think a little like, don don't even know what it means. I I just know that we need to start like having some individual thought before we, it's just like this group, think about other people and you know how they're different and lock 'em up and throw away the key. And you know, I I just think like we should all slow down and really think, yeah.

4 (1h 46m 42s):
And what I, what I hope to bring is, is these stories where you get to know the person. These No, I, look, I'm deeply, deeply flawed. Sheldon will be the first to tell you like, I did some fucked up things. But when you, when you watch what he's doing, you know, why can't, why can't we make people in these communities? Why can't we make them great again by giving them a better chance? Like you said at the outset of the episode, let 'em hit the starting line. Yeah.

5 (1h 47m 21s):
Well, you know, what you were saying earlier about building a sandcastle, one grain of sand at a time, we're, I think from my perspective, the feedback that I get, it's these conversations we've had, we've had quite a few of them now. They, they have changed a lot of people's ideas on how the prison prison system is structured, what the problems with it are, how many people are wrongfully incarcerated, how incredible some of these people are wasted potential locked away forever for something never did, and they didn't break. Instead they got stronger and wiser and more intelligent and more educated and came out better.

5 (1h 48m 2s):
And they're, they're, they're incredible human beings. And how many of 'em are just being wasted?

4 (1h 48m 7s):
Yeah. That's my

5 (1h 48m 8s):
How much potential

6 (1h 48m 10s):
I mean. This is what you want though, right? You don't want, you don't want somebody to go into the prison system and come out worse.

5 (1h 48m 15s):
Right. And which happens, which happens

6 (1h 48m 16s):
Most time. And then we hear about these horrific incidences or people getting pushed onto the train tracks because you have a guy who has a mental illness and instead of getting the services that he needs, you put him in prison. You, you sedated him for three, four years. Five years. You sent them to a parole board. The parole board let him out. Two days later, he pushes somebody into the train tracks. Right. This is, this is not what you want. Yeah. So how, and, and how do you prevent these things from happening? Right. By being proactive. By being responsive instead of being reactive. Don't wait for something to happen.

4 (1h 48m 51s):
But you said something that Joe said, something that is worth sticking for on for a second. These are most of the time, these are the miracles that are coming out, right? I mean most of the time, you're right. The, the cycle of from the street to prison, back to the street to prison, most of the time recidivism. Yeah. The yeah. I mean, I I'm just saying it in plain English. Most of the time it's churning out monsters because what else would you expect? Right? Right. I mean you ever, there's a great book called In the Belly of the Beast about a guy that went to prison and he describes what it did to him psychologically, what it did to him, to, to every cell in his body.

4 (1h 49m 41s):
And then he goes out and he, he murders someone and he writes this book just explaining, I want you to understand what this did to me. I read it when I was in college and I should read it again. I probably have a different perspective on it now. It might hit home even more, but, you know, yeah. These are the, these are talk about grains of sand on a beach. You know, if you look at the, the population of people that keep getting churned out of correctional institutions, most of them are not getting corrected. It take, you know, why do I like to spend my time with these guys? Because I hope some of their strength rubs off on me somehow

6 (1h 50m 24s):
When I came home, right. In May, it took me almost 30 days to get any type of benefits or help. and I had to call this lady. I called this guy, I put in for the snap, the food stamps, the benefits, the little bit of benefits that I had, right? Or that I could, that I could possibly acquire to help me navigate and, and, and kind of transition back and reintegrate back into society. and I had a conversation with a lady on the phone and she told me, she said, you don't qualify for emergency services. and I said What? I said, miss, I just spent 25 years and five months incarcerated.

6 (1h 51m 6s):
If that is not a qualification, then what is, oh sir, I'm just telling you, you don't qualify for it. I said, I need to speak to your supervisor. It took me two days to get to her supervisor, but when I finally got to her supervisor, her supervisor, oh, I'm, I'm, I'm gonna look into it. And they finally gave me my benefits. But I'm saying all of that to say that there's, there's, there's these institutions in place that need to change. And for the people who are listening to this, and you're directly involved in these institutions, there has to be a conscientious Response to what classifies as an emergency.

6 (1h 51m 48s):
A person should not, I should not have. I had to wait 30 days. What if, what if I didn't have family resources? What if I didn't have anything? And

5 (1h 51m 55s):
How much does that incentivize you to go right back to

6 (1h 51m 57s):
Crime? Right. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. How much would that have incentivized me to go out and, and, and commit a robbery or steal a piece of pizza like a guy out in, in, in California where they have the three strikes laws and they end up giving this guy 20 years for stealing a slice of pizza because he's starving. These is, this is real stuff. This is stuff that's really happening. Nobody offered me anything. I had to actually go out.

5 (1h 52m 22s):
Did they give you any sort of guidelines of what you can do to reintegrate to society? Or do they just release

6 (1h 52m 29s):
You? They just release you? They gave me $40 and a bus ticket. and I had a little, I had a little JPay, a debit card. 'cause I had a couple of dollars in my account that they gave me with, with a little bit of extra money on it. They have some programs that you're supposed to be entitled to prior to release. But it's, but it's a joke because the programs don't teach you any real skills. Right. Like one of the, one of the most, one of the most significant hurdles I had upon my reintegration is, was technology. Right. I hadn't, I've never, I've never had a cell phone in my life.

6 (1h 53m 12s):
I sent out my first email in 2019 from a tablet that they gave me in Auburn Correctional Facility. don don't know what A-A-P-D-F. The, the, the, I went online and they said I had to convert my application into A PDF before I could submit it. Excuse my language. I didn't know what A-A-P-D-F. What the fuck is that?

5 (1h 53m 37s):
Yeah.

6 (1h 53m 37s):
You know, so these are some of the things that when we, when we talk about opportunities, right? And leveling the playing field and, and, and recidivism, right? Someone being able to get out and not have to be in these situations where they feel like the whole world is against them and they really don't know what to do. They can't get the services that they need. They don't know how to navigate the basics of technology. Microsoft Excel, I was fortunate. I was in the computer program while I was incarcerated, and I was able to, you know, as my role in the Cornell Prison Education program, I put myself into a position to where I was, I was, I knew where the Excel spreadsheet was.

6 (1h 54m 19s):
I knew what a Word document was. But a lot of these guys that's coming out, they don't know what that is.

4 (1h 54m 24s):
But you skipped the PDF course.

6 (1h 54m 26s):
Yeah. There no pdf. Sorry. Yeah. There's no FI

5 (1h 54m 30s):
Don't even know how to convert something to A PDF. Yeah.

6 (1h 54m 32s):
Like, you know, it's pretty, pretty simple.

5 (1h 54m 34s):
I'm sure. But Don don't know how to do it. Yeah. I'm saying if I saw that in an email, I'd be like, fuck,

6 (1h 54m 39s):
Fuck.

4 (1h 54m 40s):
Well, you know, you know what's crazy? You know, there's a, there's a great program in New York called Hudson Link, where they, I think it's, it's a college program and they do a lot of great reintegration. They, they provide a lot of great reintegration services, and they're right, like a few blocks from Sing Sing Prison. And you were part

6 (1h 55m 2s):
Of Hudson Shout out to Hudson Link. Yeah. So I, I obtained my Degree of Mercy from Hudson Link. Sean Peaker runs the organization amongst many other formerly incarcerated individuals. Sean Peak is also formerly incarcerated. They have a post-secondary education program on the inside. And they also have a post-secondary. They're actually paying for my master's right now to go back to school. They have a, a housing reentry program called New Beginnings. Amazing. That's where I went when I first got released. But, you know, going back, had it not been for these, these formerly incarcerated individuals, like I I, I don't know where I would've been at had I had to depend on my, my elected representatives, you know, my elected assembly and senators.

6 (1h 55m 49s):
Like I would be, you know, I, I would probably be trying to steal a loaf of bread out the grocery store.

4 (1h 55m 55s):
You know what's crazy? There's, this was a trippy moment, man. Fucking trippy moment. The warden at Sing Sing. A guy named Mike Capra. All right. And when you conjure up in your mind what a warden looks like, I mean he's right outta central casting. Big burly dude. You know, you looking at him, you think he's the boy. Watch out. You know, he's doling out punishment. This guy was so inspired by what he saw at Sing Sing with formerly incarcerated, with formerly incarcerated individuals that got out and started programs.

4 (1h 56m 46s):
JJ Velazquez is

6 (1h 56m 48s):
Voices from Within.

4 (1h 56m 49s):
Voices from Within started this, this organization when he was incarcerated, where they bring people in the community into the prison just to talk to inmates and to establish that there's some humanity there. Kepra the warden of Sing, sing Prison, they call him the superintendent in New, York. That's what they call wardens now works for jj. He retired and now he works for JJ going around and trying to, he's like a, a missionary. But for the work we're doing,

6 (1h 57m 26s):
Frederick Douglas program. We were at the UJC couple of months ago, United Justice Coalition out in the, what was that? The, no, that was the Jacob Javits.

4 (1h 57m 36s):
It was at the Javit Center. Yeah,

6 (1h 57m 38s):
The Javit Center. He was there. He spoke, Derek spoke a huge, huge event. But Michael Capper was there.

4 (1h 57m 44s):
That was what I was saying. It was a trippy moment. I see him there. This guy was the warden of the prison, and now he's there at a booth for J'S organization

6 (1h 57m 54s):
Speaking on behalf of incarcerated individuals. Wow.

4 (1h 57m 57s):
So, yeah. Right. Did

6 (1h 57m 58s):
You talk to him? How did he make that

4 (1h 57m 59s):
Turn? Oh, did I talk to him when I saw him? He told, when Bruce got out, he came to Hudson Link. They have like a, it looks like a, like a thrift shop and it, and it kind of is, but it's only for people getting out. So you could go in and get some clothes you could go get, that was

6 (1h 58m 19s):
Kiki's, Kiki Dunston's, that was her thrift shop. She created

4 (1h 58m 21s):
That. So I, so when Bruce gets out, he needed clo. We said, we'll bring you some clothes. He said, no, Hudson Link has this great little spot by. So while, while he was still awarded, he came while Bruce was picking out things to congratulate him and, and wish him well and I. So yeah, I mean, I, not only did I talk to him, 'cause he told me when I retire, I'm gonna come work with these guys. So yeah. When I saw him at this event called the United Justice Coalition, he's in a booth working for JJ on the Frederick Douglas project, side

6 (1h 58m 55s):
By side with us.

4 (1h 58m 56s):
And I saw him and he looked at me and he goes, I told you Josh and I just walked up. I gave him a big hug. Wow. He like recoiled. I was like, come on, baby hug me. And, and he came, he came in, he's like, man, it's like, he go, he's like, it's life changing, you know? It really is. And, and we had a great talk about it. He was telling me how, you know, just being on the outside with these guys that I saw in, in, you know, not only in prison uniforms, but in a construct that I was the head of. And now they're the ones inspiring me. We need more. Mike Cappers in

6 (1h 59m 33s):
The world. Speaking, speaking of Michael Capper Right. So prior to my release, we, me and Bruce, Bruce Bryant were working. So we created a number of programs. One of them was a civic engagement in New York, where we actually teach incarcerated individuals on their rights to vote. How they vote, how do you go to booth, how do you register to vote, et cetera, et cetera. And Michael Capra was pivotal in allowing us to be able to create these programs and have a platform in the school building. One of them in particular that we are trying to work on now is dyslexia. Right? And this might, this blew me away, and it may, and it, and it, and it may, you may see, according to the Department of Correctional Education, 47% of the incarcerated population all across the United States have some type of dyslexia or reading disability, right?

6 (2h 0m 28s):
That's almost half of the individuals that are in the, the Department of Corrections that have some type of reading disability, right? So when you look at, and, and that's the tip of the iceberg, right? So when you look at the bottom of the iceberg, right? And you go, and you delve even deeper into that, right? What are the key factors that played in this person? Actually, you know, what are the, what's the correlation between incarceration and illiteracy, right? And, and there are, there are currently no programs in any Department of Corrections throughout the United States that's actually screening men for dyslexia or to determine who can read and who can't read.

6 (2h 1m 11s):
So, so how do you,

5 (2h 1m 13s):
Wow.

4 (2h 1m 13s):
Oh my God.

5 (2h 1m 14s):
However, a study of Texas prison inmates by the University of Texas Medical Branch estimated that approximately 80% of prisoners in a sample group struggled with their literacy skills. And that half were likely to be dyslexic. So half of them dyslexic, 80% of them struggle to read.

6 (2h 1m 32s):
So, so when we talk about, when we talk about recidivism, and we talk about preparing someone to be reintegrated back into society, right? The Department of Corrections has failed. How can you say you're gonna rehabilitate somebody reading for me, right? I believe that reading is a fundamental, right? My grandmother used to read to me when I was a kid, I would lay in her lap and she would read to me. and it wasn't even about what she read to me, but it was the connection that she and I had together and just being there with her. And, and it, and it, and it made me respect the idea of what it means to read, right? But when we talk about, like, going, going back to the PDF thing, right? A guy comes home and, and, and he's, he's supposed to go online and fill out an application, but he can't even read how is he supposed to follow basic instructions during transportation and trying to get onto the drain and, and, and, and, and, and navigate through all of the basic necessities in life.

6 (2h 2m 33s):
And he can't even read this. This is even, there's an even more startling picture to that, right? What about due process,

5 (2h 2m 43s):
Right?

6 (2h 2m 44s):
A guy's in a courtroom and a lawyer's giving him paperwork and he can't even read. So there's, there's, there's no system in place. and I think that that's something that needs to be, that needs to be addressed.

5 (2h 3m 1s):
I want to get to what were the circumstances that got your sentence reduced, and how'd that come about?

6 (2h 3m 7s):
Okay, so I can't even count how many motions I filed throughout my incarceration. Four 40 tens with this, a motion to vacate rid of Eric Nobus, which is an appeal to a judge, to the Appellate Division, to overturn your appeal, your right to appeal. I filed a, a, a motion called the Domestic Violence Justice Survivors Act. and I knew that the motion was gonna get denied because I didn't qualify for the Motion, for the Motion, but my spirit told me to do it.

6 (2h 3m 47s):
My intuition to it, just it, and I filed it. And in the process of filing that motion, that's when I met Allison Hart and Barbara Zoloft at the Center for Appellate Litigation. And they have, what they call is the Years Program Youth Emergent Assisted re-Sentencing Program. And what they do is they look for individuals who meet a certain age bracket when they were sentenced a crime, and then the sentencing that's attached, usually disparaging sentences. And so the motion got denied. But in the process, I connected with Allison and they reached out to me and they said, Hey, listen, we think you qualify for the program.

6 (2h 4m 34s):
We think you, you are the poster child for this program based on the circumstances. And it, that began the process of my release. I think what paid what played a significant role was what I had done while I was in prison, because that's one of the major things that the District Attorney's office had looked at. That's one of the major things that Josh and Allison and everybody had brought to the attention of these people. Say, okay, you know, you have a guy who has these set of circumstances, but look at what he has done while he was incarcerated. Look what he has been able to accomplish. And he did all of this under the pretenses that he was never gonna get out.

6 (2h 5m 21s):
So we were going back and forth. We filed a bunch of paperwork, we had to get a bunch of documents. I sent, sent out a whole bunch of documents, and they put together what they call is a mitigation packet. And a mitigation packet just outlines everything, my circumstances, my sentence, my crime, accountability, and a whole bunch of other factors. And they submitted it. It was a 4 40 20 in New York State, which is a motion to resentence, or a motion to vacate the sentence. And initially the ball was rolling. The district attorney's office had initially conceded to the motion saying, we're not gonna oppose the motion.

6 (2h 6m 9s):
And then something happened. I'm not exactly sure what happened, but maybe Josh, he has more of a background insight. And at that time, me and Bruce were working. I didn't know Josh. And Bruce said, yo, listen man, I'm gonna talk to my man. Josh stupid. He knows some people that know some people. And, and I didn't know that he was working with Derrick Hamilton. Derrick Hamilton and I had worked in the law library together. So I think when he mentioned to Derrick, he said, you know, my nickname was superb. That was a, that was my nickname in prison. And he said, you know, a guy named Superb? He said, yeah, I know superb. So him and Derek got together along with Allison Harp and Barbara Zoloft, and they went to back to the District Attorney's office in full force.

6 (2h 7m 0s):
They had all kind of me, Miguel Josh, you could

4 (2h 7m 2s):
Probably, no I mean don. Don't you know

6 (2h 7m 4s):
The details more than I do? Well,

4 (2h 7m 6s):
I mean, listen, I don't want to get too much into the details because I don don't think they matter. and I think, I wanna make sure that the credit is given where it belongs, which is probably to Sheldon first before transforming his life. And to Barbara and Allison, because these are two amazing attorneys that saw potential and, and the injustice in what was done to Sheldon and who he had become. And they got to know him. You know, and I'm on the phone with Bruce and these prison calls, if they're not a legal call, these prison calls are like, sometimes they just end real abruptly, you know? It's like, oh shit.

4 (2h 7m 47s):
Oh shit. Oh shit, I gotta go bye. You know? Or Oh, they're, they're, they're giving me a hard time. They're doing count now. I gotta go by. Or sometimes it'll just click off. So Bruce is, you know, about to get out. He's got his clemencies. Granted, he had, he had gone to the parole board with a claim of innocence, which is so rare and got granted the parole pending his, the reinvestigation of his case. But he's has clemency with no strings attached other than being on probation until they make a final decision on his innocence.

4 (2h 8m 29s):
And he's on the phone with me going, yo, yo, you gotta, I got this guy Sheldon Johnson right here, and he wants to talk to you. He's his, his lawyer knows your cousin. And I was like, what the fuck is this guy talking about? And I was like, Bruce, man, I gotta worry about getting you out. And this was going on for like a, a full month, and you know, he's right here. He's right here. He wants to talk to you. I said, I'm not talking to anyone else. I'm, I'm dealing with your case. I gotta get you out. He's like, please talk to Allison. She's been at your house before. I said, no, you got something, you got your lines crossed somewhere. So I finally like paid attention to it.

4 (2h 9m 12s):
I had a million other cases going on, and Bruce was our first client at the Perlmutter Center. And we were like, you know, really lining things up for his release and I. I speak to Sheldon's lawyer and she said, you know, I'm actually friends with your cousin. And when she organized the baby shower for your first, for your daughter, it was my oldest Lila. She said, I was at your house for your baby shower. I remember your wife Jillian real well. She's like, tells me, I remember your house and I. And I'm like this, well, come on. You can't make this shit up. You know, the connections, man, the connection and I mean in New, York City.

4 (2h 9m 52s):
It was just too wild, right? So I said, send me, send me the mitigation submission. And that was when I read about Sheldon. and I went to Derek Hamilton, who is a one man Cyclone of Justice. You know, he's been on the show. He's just, he's doing, he, he just does so much for so many people. He's like, I know him. He's an amazing guy. We gotta, we're gonna get him out. So right in the middle of, it's, there's so many Trump things where there's cameras all outside that I forget. Yeah, Trump was supposed to show up in court and I, forget what it was, kept

6 (2h 10m 31s):
Pushing it back. They said, oh, it's too much going on in

4 (2h 10m 34s):
The problem. What was it? What was it though? It was him being indicted,

6 (2h 10m 37s):
Or, no, it was him being indicted. And then they were saying that it was too much police activity there that they just kept trying, they just kept pushing it back.

4 (2h 10m 45s):
So what happened was, there was like, we, we were at the District attorney's office on a different case that we working on, and we asked to speak to the district attorney of New York and let him know that we were now representing Sheldon along with the Center for Appellate Litigation, and made a, a passionate plea on Sheldon's behalf. and I don't wanna go too much into the details, but we were ended up, you know, kudos to the Manhattan District Attorney's office for, for actually, you know, paying attention and, and seeing that Sheldon was worthy of a second chance. And really the, that the, the sentence did not fit the crime.

4 (2h 11m 27s):
And the, the twist on Sheldon's story that I I was like a head scratcher to me that I asked him about was the judge that sentenced him as a, as a black man. And, you know, I said to Sheldon, did that ever strike you as I mean? Here's a, a African-American judge that looks at this young, young black kid and should understand his circumstances and have a better understanding of it and not wanna throw away his life. and I said, so what, what do you do with that fact?

4 (2h 12m 8s):
And Sheldon Sheldon said, well, I'll let you respond to it, because he said something to me that I didn't really I mean this judge now, you know, sits as a federal judge in the southern district of New York. I, I, I don't know what to make of that. don don't know. I, I, it just seems so strange to me that that is who you know, said, this guy's not worthy of redemption.

6 (2h 12m 37s):
One of the things that I expressed to Josh when we had this conversation was that just in my, just in my experiences dealing with judges and prosecutors and correctional officers in particular who are black, right? They struggle with this idea that they feel that they have to be harder on their own people, for one, to make an example. And so that their colleagues don't think that they're being weak or showing favoritism because, oh, this guy is black, so you're showing him favoritism. But the idea of like what Josh is saying, like you would think that someone who's in this position as a judge, he's an arbitrator, right?

6 (2h 13m 24s):
He is supposed to be someone who is in a position of power and authority, should be able to look down and I mean. Maybe, maybe, maybe he saw something. I don't know what his experiences was. I, I, I can't speak to that, you know, maybe he saw me as, as a menace, you know, but I, I do honestly believe that, you know, we, we need these people to be able to look at things from an objective, right? Because when you, when, when, as a person of color and in a position of power, like a lot of times it's, it's a subjective reality.

6 (2h 14m 7s):
It's a reality that's attached to personal feelings and experiences. And a person who's in that position should be in a position to, to be more objective, right? When we talk about objectivity and I think that's what it boils down to, you know, subjectivity versus objectivity, right?

5 (2h 14m 28s):
I think what you're talking about too is expressed by I know a lot of guys that have been, that have had dealings with black cops, black guys having dealings with black cops. And they will tell you, man, they will go out of their way oftentimes to show that they're not showing any favoritism. Yeah. Like, they have to show because they're a minority in their precinct, and they, they go out a way to show that they fit in with that culture.

6 (2h 14m 58s):
And so, so, so, you know, and, and you know, showing, just to speak to what he said, right? Like when I was in upstate New, York, Auburn and, and, and Clinton, and, and Attica, you, you had a sprinkle of maybe one or two black cops, and the black cops were always the worst, right? Because like he just said, you know, they are a minority and they don't want to be ostracized by their coworkers, or made to seem as if they're showing favoritism towards the prisoners. So they go out of their way to just be extra. That's what we used to say. He's just being extra. He wants to enforce all of the rules.

6 (2h 15m 38s):
What a white cop might say, ah, this guy got a pot and a a eye. So, you know, in prison, you know, we have like, you know, you have pots guys cook, and you have a eye, it's usually a, a like a coil that's detached from a hot pot and you use it to make food. There's been times when, you know, you'll have a, a white cop that'll come in to sell and it's contraband. You're not supposed to have it, but you'll have a white cop that'll come in to sell and he'll see a pot and he'll just be like, he's just using that to cook. And then you'll have a black cop that'll come and be like, nah, he can't have that. You know? And it's, and it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just interesting.

6 (2h 16m 19s):
and I think it goes, and I think it goes back even farther than that, right? When you go back all the way into slavery, you know, you had the house nigga and the field   excuse my language for using those words, right? You

4 (2h 16m 33s):
Could use them. We can't. Yeah.

6 (2h 16m 34s):
Right. You know what I'm saying? And that the idea of the person, the guy who was in the house, he was harder on his own people, his fellow slaves than some of the, some of the overseers may have been, or the slave masters. So it's this, this transferred psychological state where, you know, a person feels like they have to just go above and beyond to like, like Jo just said, to show that, oh, I'm not showing favoritism.

5 (2h 17m 2s):
Yeah.

6 (2h 17m 2s):
Or I'm not speaking, you know, this whole talking white

5 (2h 17m 6s):
God, it's such a fucked up system.

6 (2h 17m 8s):
It's crazy.

5 (2h 17m 9s):
It's so fucked up. And every time we have one of these conversations, I, I leave and I just drive and I think when I'm driving home, I'm just like, what the fuck? Like the, just the sea of human beings that are entrapped in this system. And what is the number of incarcerated individuals in the United States right now? 2 million. So that's more than the population of Austin.

6 (2h 17m 33s):
It's actually 1.92. We rounded off as 2 million

5 (2h 17m 37s):
Roughly Austin and the surrounding areas.

6 (2h 17m 40s):
So interesting that I was looking at Austin, right? Texas, Texas taxpayers pay $3.5 million in taxes towards prisons, $3.5 million.

5 (2h 17m 54s):
How much of that could be saved? If it's invested I mean, it would be a, a fascinating study if one state would implement what we're talking about, like community outreach programs, starting at a a grassroots level, how much money would be saved by the state by investing that money?

6 (2h 18m 13s):
So for example, right on the 17th of this month, we went to, I told you we went to the rally treatment, not jails, right? So the idea of the treatment, not jails, is to have a diversion court that deals with substance abuse and give the judges the discretion to send people who clearly have substance abuse issues into a program as opposed to incarceration. Right? And for every dollar that is spent in this program, you save $2 and 21 cents.

4 (2h 18m 44s):
I mean there are studies we could go through, you know, incarceration in the federal prisons and the state prisons, and, and at the risk of sounding like stat machines, you obviously see Sheldon is very well versed. I am as well. But the point is, is the short answer is we would save a ton of money and be able to invest in people and things to make people happy, not sad to en engage in enjoyment not suffering. So

6 (2h 19m 17s):
Productivity, not dependence,

5 (2h 19m 19s):
Wouldn't it just take one governor to implement something like this that would show that there's a benefit financially for the state,

4 (2h 19m 26s):
But look who they're beholden to. You mentioned it earlier. Yeah. Then they have to worry about how will that impact my electability, right? Because is are the corrections officers union, the police union, are they gonna get behind me in the next election? You know, it takes, I think when you take a step back from a governor, like we have a guy who is a, the DA in Brooklyn, his name is District Attorney Gonzalez. And, you know, we have an amazing relationship with him, the Perlmutter Center, Derek Hamilton especially, where we're able to go to him and his, and the people that work with him and say, look, and we have a client right now that's in prison for, I think 30 years on a 30 year sentence for a $6 robbery at a, at a drug house.

4 (2h 20m 13s):
And the diversion programs, the drug diversion programs that are available now weren't available back then. He's 69 years old. So, you know, we're really hoping, I think we're very close to the finish line of getting him released. So, you know, I think that the short answer is, yeah, it would take a governor to implement a program to be able to point funds in the right direction. and I think fam, you talked about, just one second. You talked about HBCUs FAM u in Florida, the only land grant HBCU in the state is the disparity in funding of that school versus other schools in the state Is, is not a matter of, you know, it's, it's a matter of fact.

4 (2h 21m 11s):
I was recently arguing on behalf of these students that just want to be funded the same way. Florida State, university of Florida and all the other public universities are like two weeks before my argument on the state's motion to dismiss the United States government, the United States Department of Education sent a letter to the governor in Florida and said, here are the statistics. This is all traceable to what they call de jour segregation. There, there was the, you know, and, and please fund the school appropriately.

4 (2h 21m 52s):
Well, the judge just dismissed the case a few days ago. and I would, I would invite people to go online and read the decision because we're gonna appeal it to the 11th circuit in Atlanta. but it wasn't, it wasn't a, it's not a matter of, of there's no controversy, there's no argument that no, we are funding it appropriately. FM u was founded on a slave plantation, a former slave plantation. And you know, when I brought that up at the oral argument, the judge went nuts on me. Mm. What? No, you're saying it's a slave plant. No, I'm saying that's where it started. And if you take a thread and pull it forward through time, the United States Office of Civil Rights in the 1970s, in the 1990s went to the state of Florida and said, you are not funding FAMU appropriately.

4 (2h 22m 48s):
And they entered into these consent decrees with them where they had to, what do what's called destroy vestiges of de jore segregation. Because since Brown versus Board of Education, there was another Supreme Court decision called Fortis, which talked about how do you establish that a pattern or practice is traceable to segregation. And the state of Florida just is ignored it. So does governor DeSantis have the ability to make sure that a MU is funded appropriately? Or is Governor DeSantis going to worry more about Florida State University being somehow shortchanged in the national championship and, and earmark funds to, to challenge the college football folks to make sure I mean?

4 (2h 23m 42s):
Are you fucking kidding me? I went to Florida State. I think it's fucking, it's lunacy. So the answer to your question is yes, but he's not gonna do it for whatever political reasons he has. Why not fund the school so that there is some, you know, a level playing field? You know, and it's a

5 (2h 24m 6s):
Controversial subject amongst ignorant voters. And, and it,

4 (2h 24m 9s):
It's, it's a controversial subject amongst ignorant voters. Because all, all Governor DeSantis has to say is, he took a page out of Trump's book 'cause he knows it works, is all he has to say is, woke, woke, woke, woke, woke, woke, woke. What does that mean? What does it mean? It means different things to different people. All I'm saying is look at the statistics and you cannot come to any conclusion. But that FAMU, the only HBCU that is a land grant institution in Florida, meaning that they were granted land is, is funded disproportionate to any other college in the state. And there is no reason for it other than that it is a vestige of segregation.

4 (2h 24m 54s):
And, and, you know, really the state has the burden to say no, there is a justified reason for it under the law. I'm just giving it to you in plain English. They don't put anything forth I mean. I had the judge asking me questions in the oral argument on the motion to dismiss questions like this. Well, well, couldn't, couldn't it be that Florida State University had better a better boosters club and that they were able to raise more money? and I said, you're absolutely right. You're making my argument for me, when you are struggling to make sure that the microscopes work in your science labs, which one of my clients will tell you is the case.

4 (2h 25m 37s):
And you have dilapidated buildings. Are you worrying about starting a, a, a fundraising organization and boosters? Well, couldn't they have gone and lobbied the legislator? Yeah, they could have who was running the legislator in Florida? You know, and so when you start to run into arguments like that, the writing sort of on the wall, and we have to war, we have to now take it up with the, you know, the 11th circuit in Atlanta and try to get that decision overturned. This was on a motion to dismiss where the standard is just, I have to take all of the facts that the plaintiffs are alleging as true and assume them to be true at this stage. So it's, you know, the, the pro the point is, the problem would not exist if the governor just said, you know what?

4 (2h 26m 24s):
I just got these statistics from the Department of Education, let's just fund FAMU proportionate to how we fund every other school. And they just don't. And what they fall back on is, well, you know, there's merit based funding, I mean, start peeling the layers of that. So you look at the, the graduation rates, you look at other metrics. I mean, I think

6 (2h 26m 49s):
Quantifiable.

4 (2h 26m 49s):
Yeah. I think you see the flaw there, right? Yeah. So yeah, it's, it can get frustrating at times. And what, you know, like, what, I have a choice now. Do I fold up the tent? No, you go to the court of appeals and you make your case and you just keep on fighting and trying to get it right.

6 (2h 27m 6s):
So, so, so to to piggyback off of what you just said, right. You know, when you say it, can the governor do these things, right? Yes, they can. A lot of times these, these objectives are long term and it takes time to quantify them. So when we speak about quantifying like these, these examples of what are the circumstances surrounding the lacking of funding, a lot of times these governors are more concerned about whether or not this is gonna come out during an election year. And, and people are going to, you know, whether liberals or or, or conservatives are going to go against them and vote against them because they supported education of incarcerated individuals.

6 (2h 27m 55s):
I remember when I was going to Auburn and I was in the Cornell Prison education program. This was in 2014. You had correctional officers families outside the facility protesting as the volunteers were coming into prison with signs saying, does my kid have to get convicted in order to get a free education? Mm. And the idea was that we were receiving a free education because we were incarcerated, which is not the case. The idea is that education has been proven to prevent recidivism.

6 (2h 28m 35s):
Individuals who have been shown to acquire associate's degrees and bachelor's degrees are like 91, 90 2% less likely to return back to prison. So, so, so this is quantifiable evidence of, of how you take money and you allocate it into one project. So over the long run you can save money. Yeah. I like what, so it can be done. Would you leave?

5 (2h 29m 1s):
Yeah. The respo the response to that is not stop prisoners from being educated. It's like, make it easier for everybody.

6 (2h 29m 7s):
Exactly.

5 (2h 29m 8s):
That's the, that's the response

4 (2h 29m 10s):
I mean. I, I think the easy answer though, to your question of why don don't focus my attention on governors is I like, am I leaving this in people like Bill Clinton's hands when he was the governor of Arkansas, that fucking guy. Am I leaving it in the hands of Andrew Cuomo? Right. That fucking guy. Right. I mean that guy wouldn't, that guy wouldn't answer a fucking letter wouldn't return, you know, his clemency program was to not have a clemency program. So he

5 (2h 29m 40s):
Was too busy hugging people.

4 (2h 29m 41s):
He was too busy. Yeah. Rubbing shoulders or whatever the

6 (2h 29m 43s):
Fuck. Stealing, stealing, stealing. Feels. Oh my bad. I ain't mean, you know, I was just,

4 (2h 29m 50s):
That's just your opinion. Yeah. Yeah. So I, I think that the time, energy and resources are better spent. I think the private sector comes up with better solutions oftentimes at helping, like watch how, what do they call it? The virtuous cycle. The virtuous cycle works like this. When I saw the work that Allison hopped and Barbara Zoloft were doing at the Center for Appellate Litigation, I said, this is, this is like, you know, God's work. This is like beautiful stuff they're doing, and they're on a shoestring budget. So rather than be like, you know, the civil rights community can be interesting.

4 (2h 30m 32s):
It brings out the best and the worst in people. A lot of these civil rights organizations, you know, again, you throw human beings into any endeavor together, they're gonna fuck it up. They like to argue and get like I mean egos. Egos. And look what happened to me by coming on the show. And the, the, I would, some folks tried to censor me and I just wouldn't have it. So I saw the work that they were doing and I said, you know, what do you do? You need help? And they said, we need help. We need, we have to do these mitigation reports and we have to hire people like in Sheldon's case to assess him, a clinical psychologist, a social worker, whatever it is.

4 (2h 31m 14s):
And we don't have the money to get the reports done. And there's just two of us. So the Perlmutter Center is providing them with the money to do those reports. Steve Zeidman at CUNY is like, he's this guy that I think that he's responsible single handedly for over 50 clemencies in the state of New York.

6 (2h 31m 34s):
Amazing, phenomenal guy. He's coming, actually, he's coming to Queens Defenders to do a, we're getting ready to start a clemency initiative at Queens Defenders. He's coming to train a bunch of guys.

4 (2h 31m 44s):
He's just this guy at Queens Defenders. Yeah, he's, that doesn't surprise me. He's a guy that just, he's a letter writing machine and he keeps the pressure on and he just doesn't give up on people and you know, he needs help and we're looking for ways to collaborate. So we said, well what, what is it that moves the needle to these clemency units at governor's offices? 'cause the governor's not paying attention, right? They've have a, they have a battery of people that listen to these cases and what they do are videos. He does these really great videos that are like a day in the life and to show and to sort of humanize the clients so they're not just on paper and pictures and they go and interview them and have them talk about what it would mean to be free and how they've changed themselves.

4 (2h 32m 29s):
So he needed a little bit of help to get these videos produced. So we've agreed to donate some funds there and I think it just like having this, this more synergistic approach, rather than have it be about me or put my name on the door, let me get the credit. Right. You know, we just all pitch in.

5 (2h 32m 50s):
Yeah. To wrap this up, if someone's listening to this and they want to reach out and they want to help, they want to contribute, maybe somebody does want to, some Jeff Bezos type character does wanna get involved and, and see if there is something that they could do in terms of like some sort of a community outreach center or something that can help. What can they do? Who could, who could they reach out to?

4 (2h 33m 11s):
They can go to the Perlmutter Center for Legal Justice at Cardozo Law. It's, it's at like Sheldon Can Google. Anyone can Google it. There it is right there. Yeah, there it is. and I think Googling it would be faster. If you scroll down to the bottom of it, you'll find the donate button. You know, there are ways, and there's some of my students, there's a Give Now button. We put it all the way to the bottom. But in any event, we, you can reach out to me at Joshua dot Dubin at y@yu.edu. That's my email for the, the Perlmutter Center.

4 (2h 33m 53s):
And you know, we're, we're on the precipice of a major announcement with one of the most prestigious law firms in the country in a couple of weeks that has agreed to not donate just financial resources, but woman and manpower to help litigate these cases that came as a result of the exposure that we're getting here. So, as I always do, I thank you from deep within my soul for allowing us to have this platform and, you know, the commitment that you made to doing this quarterly and telling these stories.

4 (2h 34m 34s):
I'm very thoughtful in who I bring on. I think this was one of the best ones yet.

5 (2h 34m 41s):
They was, they've all been amazing. Yeah.

4 (2h 34m 43s):
I just love, I love the fact that, that Sheldon was able to tell his story and this was a different version of, I think, an important element of the story that needs to be told. So my, my deep respect and love for him

5 (2h 34m 56s):
For you, and my same to you, you know, I think what you do is extraordinary. It's, it's so admirable, it's so important. and it, and it, it sets an example to so many people that there's this great work that could be done and real good. And Sheldon, thank you very much for being here, man. Thank you. Thank, thank you for the example that you set and all you've done to, to educate people and to just to set an example with your own life that there's a way out of this.

6 (2h 35m 23s):
And, and, and you can also find us at Queens Defenders dot org. There's also my email address is s Johnson at Queens Defenders dot org. You can reach out to us. We're also on a precipice of a major announcement working with Columbia University, their youth Justice ambassador program, and coordinating with professors and volunteers from Columbia to work with our Youth Emergent Leadership program. And you know, we can use all of the help that we can get.

5 (2h 35m 57s):
Well, I'm sure you're gonna get something. People are listening. Alright, you, thank you very much. Thank you Josh. Appreciate you having me

6 (2h 36m 2s):
Here man. It's

5 (2h 36m 3s):
An honor. Appreciate you being, it's an honor to have you on. Thank you. Thank Josh. Alright, bye everybody.