0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night. All day.

3 (12s):
We good to go? Alright, Steve Ella. Cam Hanes. What's happening? Good to see you guys. Yeah.

4 (17s):
Thanks for having me out, man.

3 (18s):
My pleasure. Cam, explain that ridiculous thing around your neck. What

5 (22s):
Whatcha talking about? Oh, this, that thing. Oh. Oh. I mean what? What ca Where am I? What camera am I right

3 (31s):
There? Yeah.

5 (32s):
So this is How Badass is this solid gold mold of, this is my first brown bear I killed with Roy. So they made a mold off this claw. I had this just tanned hide laying around. I'm like, I gotta, we gotta don don't know. What's it gonna do? Just lay there. So I'm like, I gotta have something. and I took it to Skis Jeweler, which is been in Eugene for 104 years. So it's kind of a cool little story. And they came up with this crazy necklace. So it's, oh, they wanted me to tell you. It's, it's re what is it? It's not, not newly mine gold. It's

4 (1m 11s):
Recla. Oh, reclaimed or reclaimed?

5 (1m 12s):
Yeah. Yeah. Oh, okay. So, so they're not ruining the planet to get it. So they wanted me to, this is like reclaimed gold, but it's solid. And then there's six karats of rubies on there and black diamonds. So,

3 (1m 22s):
So the rubies people

5 (1m 24s):
Can see if this is a ridiculous thing you're talking about. Yeah, yeah. Okay.

3 (1m 26s):
That was it. Yeah. So the rubies though,

4 (1m 28s):
That's a lot of pawn shot wedding rings laid up in there, man. I know

5 (1m 32s):
A lot of failed marriages were dreams. This, yeah,

4 (1m 35s):
This is probably I know that's where that came from. but it didn come from gold wiring,

5 (1m 39s):
Like 50 failed marriages right here.

3 (1m 42s):
And the rubies look like blood. So what, what they did was, it's pretty fucking dope. They made the rubies, if you could hold it up for the camera, if people could see it. The rubies look like it's dipped in blood.

5 (1m 53s):
There's black diamonds too.

3 (1m 55s):
Oh, nice. That's a lot. Dude. You're bawling outta control son. I

5 (1m 59s):
Know. I know. It's crazy. So the last I had that one from Scooby, the ch, he made me never worn it since, but I wore it here. Then the last time I had, my son had an ivory from a bull I killed in Arizona. He just put it on a leather strap. And that was my last podcast. Adornment. Now here we are.

3 (2m 18s):
Cody Garran gave me one that has my dog's face on one side. Yes, I saw that. And the other side, it has the JRE logo. I'm like, either one of 'em is too weird for before

4 (2m 26s):
Carved into an ivory. No,

3 (2m 27s):
No, no. It's solid gold.

4 (2m 28s):
Oh, solid gold. I was like, that's some intricate carbon.

5 (2m 31s):
Yeah. Yeah.

3 (2m 32s):
It's, it's so ridiculous.

5 (2m 34s):
Hey. No, there's no limit now, obviously.

3 (2m 35s):
Do you got any jewelry, vanilla? Come

4 (2m 37s):
On, Steve Uhuh. No, nothing Uhuh. I, I No tattoos. No jewelry, man. What? What? They'll never, if if I return up, do you rubber wedding dead in the lake. They won't be able to identify me. Do you have a rubber

3 (2m 47s):
Wedding ring? Do you wear one of those?

4 (2m 49s):
Well, I, I went from regular to silicon to nothing. Yeah. I don't wear one anymore. You ever thought about it? My wife doesn't wear one very often. Oh yeah. Uhuh. No. Don't wear one. I,

3 (3m 1s):
I'd yell at my wife. Yeah,

4 (3m 2s):
But where

3 (3m 3s):
The fuck you going?

4 (3m 4s):
Well, I know, but put that le it's not like anyone comes and it's not like anyone comes and scams on me now, you know? Right. I'm a little beyond there. I just smell like, I smell like a married dude. don don't need that thing.

3 (3m 12s):
I get it. No, don don't know. I just always, I don don't mind wearing it. I and I love these silicone ones. These are fucking great. You can lift weights in 'em. You could do, I don't do, I do everything in 'em.

4 (3m 22s):
I had a couple accidents, the snag and it and it, and it arced it on a battery. The metal one. Yeah. And then I got on this thing and people were sending us all these pictures too, of what they call degloving sheathing. Yeah. Where you pull it off, man. We got just people sending horrible pictures, like guys catching them on a ladder rack on a truck and then like, jumping down endlessly. And that cured me forever. That metal one? Yeah,

3 (3m 47s):
The

4 (3m 47s):
Metal one. I kept the metal one in a little baggy.

3 (3m 49s):
I will wear the metal one if I go to dinner with my wife. Oh really? Or if I'm doing the UFC, I'll wear the metal one if I have a nice watch on. But I never wear it other than that. Oh,

4 (3m 57s):
That's cute that you put it on at dinner. Yeah, I'm gonna do that sometime. We do

3 (4m 0s):
Date nights

4 (4m 1s):
And you put your ring on. Yeah. I'm gonna start

3 (4m 2s):
Doing that. Well, I always wear my red, my, my rubber ring. But the silicone ring, but the, the metal one I'll put out, we're going out. Huh? That's a nice one on,

4 (4m 10s):
Dude. I'm gonna take that little tip, man. It's

3 (4m 13s):
A good tip. It's a good tip for date night. Yeah.

5 (4m 16s):
I, I had to use mine for this,

3 (4m 18s):
My wedding ring.

4 (4m 22s):
Your wife's like, where's your wedding ring? Wow. You know, the necklace I got,

3 (4m 26s):
I still have it. She just assumed it's final form. I wear

5 (4m 29s):
It all the time. I'm wearing it right now.

4 (4m 32s):
My buddy in Alaska, he had, he had his wife kept all of her jewelry in this little box and her house burnt down and he later went and found all that stuff. Like it melted into a blob. So she, she took that blob and took it to a jeweler and had that blob turned into a big old necklace. Oh. So it's just like this amorphous glob of

3 (4m 56s):
Oh, to the glob with no change

4 (4m 58s):
To it. Oh yeah. Like this amorphous glob of gold that she'll put on now. And then it was like all of her, like stuff in this little pile that Oh, Mel Yeah. Melted together. Must

3 (5m 7s):
Have been a fucking hell of a fire.

4 (5m 8s):
Oh yeah. Oh no. It was for sure. And she didn't like wear it, wear it, but she would get it out and be like, oh, here's all my,

3 (5m 15s):
All the lump. Here's

4 (5m 16s):
All my stuff.

3 (5m 18s):
Yeah. The jewelry thing is a weird thing. People that get really into, one of the things we're gonna do for protect our parks, we've been talking about doing this, is get grills, like the wrappers wear. Oh yeah. We're all gonna wear grills during the podcast. So we're gonna get fitted with like diamond grills. They take like a little diamond dust and you smile like Paul Wall and you have a full mouth full of diamonds and

5 (5m 41s):
I think it'd look badass. That's my next move.

3 (5m 45s):
Just fangs.

4 (5m 46s):
Well, I, I have a tooth that got knocked out and it, it's like one of those calves. And one time we were drinking and I when I was younger we were drinking and I was trying to open up. There used to be that company that made tequila that had like a sombrero for a lid. I know. and I was opening one of these bottles and broke that fake tooth off. Oh no. And all night I'm going on about how I'm getting a gold

5 (6m 12s):
Because

4 (6m 13s):
It's gone, you know? And all night I'm like making a plan, talking all this. and I woke up in the morning and looked in the mirror and I just wanted a white, a regular white tooth bag so bad.

3 (6m 23s):
Yeah. Those things there. It's So you opened it up with your tooth?

4 (6m 27s):
Yeah, it broke that tooth and then like got fired up about getting a gold one and no, never did it. That'd been the closest thing I had toward jewelry. My gold tooth. But chickened out, that

5 (6m 36s):
Would've look sick.

3 (6m 37s):
Yeah. I thought about a gold tooth for brief moments, generally while drinking. Get one of them. Yeah.

5 (6m 44s):
They have those. They just put a little diamond on it now. Yeah.

4 (6m 48s):
My old man told me that during the war, guys would carry around dental picks and he fought World War ii. He said during the war they would carry it around and you would, they would go and get all the, they would get the gold outta German's teeth and save it up in a bag. And there were certain guys was just into it. I remember as a kid asked him like, Hey, would they ever get it from an American? He goes, that'd be a good way to get shot. But, but it, they'd dig it outta there. Which is a macab business man. Yeah.

3 (7m 18s):
Very

4 (7m 19s):
Macab.

5 (7m 19s):
They people used to dig up graves to do that, right? Yeah. Well

3 (7m 24s):
The original fillings, the silver ones were those lead

4 (7m 29s):
Don't know because

3 (7m 30s):
They used to have fillings that were metal, like and I remember people were saying, Hey, those are fucking terrible for you. Like, they figured it out years later. Yeah.

4 (7m 38s):
It's like living your whole life with a fishing stinker in your mouth, man. Right.

3 (7m 40s):
Have you seen, you saw Shane Gillis last night? Yeah. How funny is that dude? Oh

5 (7m 44s):
My God. He's hilarious.

3 (7m 45s):
He's so funny. He had a bit about George Washington and it iss one of the funniest bits I've ever seen in my life. And George, it's a whole bit about going into the George Washington museum. 'cause he's, he's a real history buff. But one of the things was George Washington's teeth. Like George Washington's teeth were

4 (7m 60s):
His

3 (8m 0s):
Wooden teeth. No, no, no. They weren't wooden. They were set in lead.

4 (8m 4s):
Oh, is that right?

3 (8m 5s):
The, the, the, the fake thing that he had was set in lead. The top was horse teeth and the bottom was slave teeth. Who? So they'd have teeth pulled from his slave No. To make. Yes. Yes. And then that thing was set in lead with springs on it. And that was George Washington's teeth.

5 (8m 24s):
Hmm.

3 (8m 26s):
I mean, how fucking crazy is that? But, but his whole bit is about how George Washington had lead poisoning. He was a fucking maniac because he was at the front of the line. Of course. The

5 (8m 37s):
Donkeys

3 (8m 38s):
Just fucking ha You have to see the bit. It's very funny. Folklore. Not what notwithstanding Wal Washington Forest false teeth were not wooden. He obtained them instead from horses, donkeys, cows and human beings. According to his account, books 1784, emulating some of his affluent friends. He bought nine teeth from unidentified Negroes, perhaps enslaved African Americans at his beloved Mount Vernon. The price was 122 shillings. You know, I mean Imagine eating with that fucking monstrosity of lead in your, and he, so he is got that in his mouth all the time. Oh yeah. Just getting lead poisoning. Hmm.

4 (9m 18s):
That's pretty intense.

3 (9m 19s):
Pretty

4 (9m 20s):
Intense. Having another dude's teeth in your mouth too is wild. Yeah. I had a cadaver bone in my jaw for a while. And you'd, and you'd get little, you know, little pieces of it and you're always spitting out little pieces of some guy, whoa, whoa. Some other dude, dude, you know, you had it for a

3 (9m 37s):
While. They took it out.

4 (9m 38s):
Well no, it just heal up. Oh. So they drill a hole in there and they fill it full of cadaver bone.

3 (9m 46s):
Whoa.

4 (9m 46s):
And I asked who the dude was. You know, they can't figure out who he was. Hmm.

3 (9m 50s):
I have,

4 (9m 51s):
You're like all over your office or whatever. You're like some little chunk of a guy You don't know.

3 (9m 56s):
My right knee is a cadaver ACL 10. But it's not. It's not anymore. What happens is that your body re proliferates it. Yeah. So it just acts as a scaffolding and then your body just fills it in with its own tissue

4 (10m 11s):
They ever give you, they ever give you info about the person?

3 (10m 13s):
No, no. I just told 'em, get me a viking, get me some fucking gigantic. Dude s been swinging at battle ax his whole life. Yeah. The, they actually use the achilles tendon though. 'cause it's much thicker than the original ACL. It's like 150% stronger than an initial ACL. But I would do that operation again in a heartbeat. I've always told everybody, I've had my knees done both ways. I had my left knee done with a patella tendon graft, which was the most painful and took forever to recover from. And then I had my right knee done with a cadaver graft. It was way easier. I went to a party five days after the operation with no crutches, no nothing. I just put a brace on and walked.

3 (10m 53s):
And I was like, this feels fine. Hmm. I mean it was obviously unstable. I guess it was weaker. So I, I put the brace on, but I was, I could walk around like it was, was not that big a deal. The first one I was in fucking agony for months. Hmm. At least weeks. 'cause they, they have to saw, what they do is they take your patella tendon, which is a very large thick tendon. You don't need all of that. And they take a strip of it and then they take like,

4 (11m 20s):
Like peel and string cheese. Yeah,

3 (11m 21s):
Exactly. And then they take a chunk of your kneecap and a chunk of your shin. So they pull that out and then they open you up like a fish. And then they screw it in at the top and screw it in the bottom. And that's your new ACL. So it's a part of your body. So your body accepts it. It's not like a another person's tissue, which, you know, could be an issue. Your body might reject it. And then, you know, it takes a long ass time before you can even get on your knees again. It took like a year before. It doesn't bother me to like be on my knees. You know, like if you're Hammering something or something. I, I couldn't get on that knee. It was just so fucking painful. 'cause you know, you got a hole there and a hole in the kneecap, but it all fills in eventually.

4 (12m 2s):
Hmm. Wow.

3 (12m 2s):
Both of them are fine now. But if I had to tell people if they're gonna get the operation, get the fucking cadaver. Get that dead. Dude. That's

5 (12m 8s):
Risky. Now what if you get a, a vegan that's vaccinated cadaver, your knee's gonna blow out. Like it's just flimsy every day. Every day.

3 (12m 19s):
Like flimsy string cheese. Like when your bow string is getting frayed, you're like, damn, should I replace this? Like, when you're dlo

5 (12m 26s):
This fucking vegan

4 (12m 28s):
Screwed me on this,

5 (12m 30s):
On this ligament.

3 (12m 32s):
Yeah. Poor vegans man. Yeah. Boy, they, you wanna talk about people that have been sold Bill of goods

5 (12m 37s):
Not very durable, are they?

3 (12m 39s):
It's not just that. It's like there's so much propaganda that, that is good for you. And there's so much evidence that it's not, and this mindset that these folk fucking people have where they're just like, they believe the China study. They believe meat causes cancer. I've had conversations with people, you try to be rational with them. Like if meat really caused cancer, do you know that 95% of the people on earth eat meat and like look at all the cancer? Yeah. But look at all the other food they eat. Do you understand how epidemiology studies work? Yeah. Like when they, you know, when they have these arguments, no one ever takes it to this like, rational conclusion. Like what would they do you know how they work the epidemiology studies?

3 (13m 19s):
No. When they, when they say like, if they say there's been a correlation between high consumption of red meat and cancer. Oh yeah. People eat red meat five times a week are much more likely than people. What are they eating with it? They don't take that into effect. 'cause it's not a real study. It's bullshit. What they're doing is just trying to come up with some biased interpretation of data that makes it seem more likely that meat is killing you.

4 (13m 42s):
I was trying to explain a correlation, causation, all that to my kid the other night. I was telling him about stuff like this, like education levels and divorce rates. Right. I'm like, no, no one's gonna untangle what it is. But you can look at these things and see that there's something going on, but no one knows exactly what. Right. Yeah. So with this stuff like that, it's like, so did you eat a lot of meat? Yeah. It's like, okay. Well yeah. In what, what form? Where, what were you doing?

3 (14m 11s):
It's not even what form? It's what else are you eating? Yeah. If they're only looking for red meat. So they're, they're asking you in these studies, like how many days a week do you eat red meat? And then you say five. And they say, well, we've gathered up all the data and the people that eat red meat five days a week are much more likely to have cancer. Yeah. But most people who eat red meat are eating burgers and they're eating burgers from like Jack in the box or whatever. Or you get this bullshit bun, you get these fries or made in seed oil, you probably washing it down with a Coca-Cola. You're flooding your body with unnatural levels of sugar and these carbohydrates that are all processed with folic acid and bullshit and they're fucking terrible for you.

3 (14m 52s):
Yeah. And your gut is just inflamed and your whole body's freaked out. And then do you smoke cigarettes and do you drink alcohol? And do you live near a fucking power line? Like, just like, it's so, there's so many factors that lead you to, if it was just like, I wanna see a study on people who eat wild game or grass fed beef and just fucking vegetables. Yeah. Like are those studies, like I bet those folks aren't getting like high instances of cancer. Yeah. Cancer is like, there's a lot of environmental factors. There's a lot of, a lot of genetic factors. There's a lot of things that lead people to get cancer. It's not just what you eat, but when they say meat, like what else are you eating?

3 (15m 34s):
Why are you blaming meat?

5 (15m 35s):
Well, what I used to do is go to McDonald's. So yeah, I had red meat. 'cause in the burger, two plain hamburgers, large fry apple pie, diet coke and a milkshake.

3 (15m 49s):
Just

4 (15m 50s):
Think about all the

5 (15m 51s):
Bullshit

4 (15m 51s):
In there. So yeah. And then they like, do you eat a lot of meat, huh?

3 (15m 53s):
Yeah. Blame the meat.

5 (15m 54s):
Right. It was like, look at to your point, look at all that other shit. Yeah. Sugar and carbs and Exactly. That oil in that meal right there would probably kill you. Yeah. And some people, it's the same people going through McDonald's or Burger King or Wendy's every single day getting their go-to Yeah. So those are the people that you're asking about. Do you eat red meat? Yeah. And Of course they are. But look it all, but yeah, I just got my blood test yesterday from my get it tested every once in a while. And my numbers are phenomenal. I eat meat five times a day. Yeah. I mean I'm eating meat All day. All wild game meat though.

4 (16m 33s):
I find that people also have, I was talking this the other day with my buddy Seth, where people also have a tendency to find, they, they, there's so much conflicting dietary information that people also will find something aligns with their aesthetic. Yeah. Right. Or that aligns with their political sensibility. Meaning someone, you know, if your general tendency is to be opposed to meat production, certain agricultural practices, and you see an article where it says, you know, high meat diet correlates with cancer, they're gonna read that with great enthusiasm.

4 (17m 18s):
Yes.

5 (17m 19s):
Yeah. Confirmation

4 (17m 20s):
Wise. Because they're gonna be like, oh, this lines up with a bunch of shit I already think. Yeah, exactly. You know, and so when we were talking about this, we were trying to, I was sort teasing out, right? Like, I like to have a garden. I like to hunt and I look with fondness upon data that suggests that eating like fresh veggies and meat is really good for you. and it definitely feels good, but I'm sort of like, am I, you know, what I mean? Do I make the same mistake that, that I tease other people for making? Like if I read some study that said, you know, eating mule deer, you know, the best thing you can possibly do. I'd be like, no, that's my kind of study.

4 (18m 0s):
Yeah.

3 (18m 1s):
Yeah. but it, it just makes logical sense. Yeah,

4 (18m 3s):
It does. For sure.

3 (18m 4s):
You understand the building blocks of human beings and like what's necessary to promote, you know, all the things that you need that only come from animal tissue. B12 collagen. There's like, there's so much stuff that you can get from meat that you're just not gonna get from anywhere else. So whenever I see an athlete that starts going on a vegan diet, I look at it the same way as like a snake handler. Like, okay, let's see how this plays out.

4 (18m 28s):
Yeah, well, how it plays out. You gotta get

3 (18m 30s):
Bit crazy. It's gonna, it's gonna take some time.

5 (18m 32s):
Plays out the same every time.

3 (18m 34s):
I always, it's like I have a friend and he was like, my girlfriend's gonna let me do threesomes. The moment I hear things like that. I,

5 (18m 42s):
That's my kind of article, exact,

3 (18m 44s):
Exact same feeling as like someone coming up to me saying, Hey man, I started making my own bombs. Like, like that's

5 (18m 52s):
Yeah,

3 (18m 53s):
This is not gonna work

4 (18m 54s):
Out. I know, I know a guy that went through something like what you're talking about, you know, and I remember when he broke it out for me about like, some like deal he had arrived at in his marriage.

5 (19m 9s):
It looks good on paper. Like I can fucking never seen

3 (19m 11s):
An example once of

4 (19m 12s):
It working. I can't tell you how I know, but I could just tell you that this is not a connect.

5 (19m 17s):
It never works. Yeah. I mean if he, if he just sketch it out right here, it might look all right.

3 (19m 22s):
Yeah. It's not She's gonna kill you in your sleep, bro. This is not gonna work.

5 (19m 26s):
None. This is real. God, get

3 (19m 28s):
Out now.

5 (19m 29s):
Oh yeah. Yeah. But you know, the, the

3 (19m 31s):
Vegan diet thing, it's just, it's so unfortunate that people have been, it's like, it's such a, i I get how you could come to this sort of idea where if you just eat vegetables then you're not as responsible for killing. But one of the real problems is, or First of all, there's the real problem of farming, you know that, especially industrial mono cropp agriculture, God damn, they kill a lot of things to get that crop out. They kill, they kill everything that's in the ground when they're using the combines. They use people to kill groundhogs. They're killing all the var and gophers and everything gets fucking killed. Right. We all know that ground nesting birds, fawns get chewed up.

3 (20m 13s):
There's a lot of things that happen. But then on top of that, there's emerging evidence that plants have intelligence that not only do they have intelligence, but they communicate through the mycelium in the ground and that they, they share resources. Like they allocate resources towards plants that need it more. There's, there's, there's evidence that they communicate with each other. Like for instance, like the acacia tree, which there's, there's trees in Africa where when giraffes eat them, if they're downwind, the other trees that are downwind will start producing a potent chemical that makes their leaves taste like shit.

3 (20m 56s):
So that they know that they're getting chewed on by, you know, oh my god, there's a giraffe in the neighborhood start tasting like shit. And so they release chemicals. I mean, how insane is that? Yeah. They, not only is it that, but they have now shown that they can play recordings

4 (21m 13s):
Of water,

3 (21m 14s):
Of insects. Okay. Eating the leaves. And if they play those recordings next to the plant, the plant will start producing those toxic chemicals that make 'em taste bad. So

4 (21m 26s):
It's, I've read that about willows. I never checked to see how like valid it is, but that, that a willow will send root tendrils in the direction of the sound of running water.

3 (21m 36s):
That makes sense. No,

4 (21m 37s):
No, it's cool. Sorry, kind didn't mean to step over you, Dan.

5 (21m 39s):
Oh, no, no. I was just saying, so it's, it's sound And also you said before you said it was downwind. Yeah.

3 (21m 45s):
Downwind too. So

5 (21m 46s):
It's, it's scent and sound.

3 (21m 47s):
It's, it's a bunch of things that they don't understand because they don't have noses. You know, like they don't have ears. Like how, how does the sound of caterpillars eating leaves change the, the chemical structure of these plants? Like how are they knowing, okay, time to let loose the poison. How are they, how are they getting it? Because they're downwind, but it gets so bad that animals, some animals that try to eat them, they wind up starving to death because they don't want to eat this stuff. 'cause it tastes that bad. Mm.

4 (22m 17s):
You're, I can see where you're going with this is that sometime down the road there's gonna be some tough decisions for people who are looking for general. Yeah. Well, like not wanting to harm Yeah. Creatures. Yeah. If you're looking and when you have to face the fact that here's this like, semi sentient communicative plant that you're yanking

3 (22m 38s):
Out, it just can't move quick and it does move. And if you watch high speed images of, of plants growing, you know, and moving with the breeze, you're like, oh, it's just a different kind of movement. Like it's, it's clearly growing. Like it grows forever. It's not even like another animal. It's kind of more fantastic. 'cause it'll grow for a hundred fucking years. Yeah. And keep growing. Or if you go to like, some of those crazy in northern California, those trees that have been around for a thousand years. Yeah. It's wild shit, man. Yeah.

4 (23m 9s):
Yeah. I'll like, you know, I'll hunt all manner stuff. and I used to work as a tree surgeon and would fell trees. But at our place in southeast Alaska, which is in the coastal rainforest, and we're in an area of old growth where our stuff's at. I'm not con like in no way condemning people to do, I would not be able to put a chainsaw in one of those trees. Yeah. Like the, you know what I mean? Like we, like everyone finds their sort of limits. And when I'm looking at some tree that's whatever, four or 500 years old. Yeah. I personally, you know, I could kill a bear without thinking about it. Not without thinking about it, but yeah.

4 (23m 50s):
I can kill a bear and be real happy. I did man. Just, I personally couldn't put a saw to one of those trees. Yeah. So people f you know, you find these, you, you find these lines. Well

3 (23m 60s):
There's also the renewable resource of bears. You know, if you're gonna kill a bear and eat a bear that bear's nine years old. Nine years is not that big a deal.

4 (24m 8s):
Yeah. Ain't 400. Yeah.

3 (24m 10s):
I mean, there was a, I was in Scotland recently and they, they had this tree, like this is the oldest tree that, that you know, is in Europe. and I was like, how old is fucking tree? And they're like, this is like a 5,000 year old tree. I'm like, how is that possible?

4 (24m 24s):
Yeah. That's incredible.

3 (24m 25s):
See if you can find that like the oldest tree in Scotland. It was a crazy gnarled up looking fucked up tree I was like, how old? I, I might be wrong with the age, but it was crazy old. And I was like, whoa. Like how do you know, how do you know how old this is when you go to Europe? Scotland was amazing. I took this trip with my wife and we went to visit these sites where they have these stone circles that are older than Stonehenge and they're like right in front of this dude's house. Like this dude has a house and then there's a small street, like a two lane street. 5,000 years old.

4 (24m 58s):
5,000 a huge tree. Yeah. But that's not what Google said

3 (25m 1s):
It was. Google said it's two to 3000 years old. Yeah. Okay. So the sign says 3000. Well, back when they made that sign, what kind of fucking carbon dating did they have? You know, some dude

4 (25m 11s):
Old that sign is look, some dude said, man, that tree must be 5,000 years old. Put that on the sign. Look at the

3 (25m 16s):
Image of it. That's what it looked like. See the image of it to the right Jamie To the no, slightly to the left of that. Yeah. That's it. That's it. That's exactly what it looked like. That one's a thousand year old North Downs in Surrey. So that's in England. Yeah.

5 (25m 29s):
Fuck that ugly tree.

3 (25m 30s):
That, that tree looks dope. It looks dope.

5 (25m 33s):
That's not a, that's not the tree Steve was talking about. I think they

3 (25m 36s):
Look cool. Those,

4 (25m 37s):
That tree looks old. You know that tree looks like a gnarly old man. Yeah.

3 (25m 41s):
Like some old dudes. I'll tell you what it was like when we rode horses everywhere.

5 (25m 46s):
Hey, so Steve, I was gonna, I was thinking like, so what's the, what's the difference between the a person who you said you wouldn't like to cut that tree or you wouldn't

4 (25m 57s):
And then Yeah. Like, but like I said, not not, I, I don't say that to condemn, you know what I mean? don don't say that to cast judgment on Right. You know, a lagger that does. I'm just saying like, I personally

5 (26m 8s):
No, I understand that. But then there's some people who take that to, I'm just trying to don don't know reason with myself. 'cause around here we've had people chain themselves to trees. Sure. You know what I mean? So did would you do that? No. So that's what I'm saying. It's like

4 (26m 24s):
I mean No, because I, the passion's not that. Right. There's a, the, the passion's there, but it's not that deep. Right.

5 (26m 29s):
I, yeah. It's just, it's weird thinking about I understand what you're saying and I totally get that. Yeah. I, I would probably, I think I've never cut down a tree. I've never been a tree surgeon, but I would probably feel the same about maybe a four or 500 year old tree.

4 (26m 42s):
Oh. I might be like, you know, man cam, you cut it down

3 (26m 45s):
When I was in northern California,

4 (26m 47s):
Don don't even have to deal with any repercussions.

3 (26m 49s):
Come outta this. Right. We were in the redwood forest and there's a tree that you drive a car through. Yeah. Yeah. They've cut a hole in the tree. And I was like, why did they do that? but it was like 1920 or something when they did it. Yeah. They didn't

5 (27m 0s):
Care

3 (27m 0s):
About anything like that. They didn't give a fuck. But when you're around those trees, they're so big. It's, it's so crazy how wide they are. And when they're gone, that's it. You just chop down something that took thousands of years to grow. So you can make what a fucking table. Yeah. You know, there's a lot of trees that are like 20 years old. Go kill those.

4 (27m 19s):
Yeah. It's, it's, it's a tough one man. It's a tough one looking at those trees. but it does seem like, you know, some of those trees you look at, it's like you're looking at, it almost seems like some approximation of God, you know? And look at some of those old trees, man. Just astounding. Yeah.

5 (27m 35s):
Yeah. We, that's in Oregon, that was a big thing because we had the spotted owls in late eighties basically. And spotted owls lived in old growth. So we had the, the whatever timber activists or whoever

4 (27m 50s):
Those people are. Sure. Yeah. Spiking trees and

5 (27m 51s):
Yeah. And or living in 'em. They'd like, well we live here or we chain ourselves to 'em. But they were up there and so the loggers would get there to cut, you know, do their cut and there's people living in the trees.

4 (28m 1s):
Yeah. That one gal spent, her name was like Butter Joe's probably had her on the show, would

3 (28m 6s):
Have her on the show. It was like butterfly or something. Right? Yeah. Yeah.

5 (28m 10s):
Yeah. But I mean, I guess my point is, it's like you got people, whatever their passions are, they will go to the ends, you know, like, yeah. We, we defend hunting till the end. Right. Yeah. That's our passion. That's what we love. But yeah, it's like all these different factions of people that man, you'd have a hard time saying you're wrong and believing that. 'cause that's just what they believe. That's their passion. Yeah. So it's like finding that middle ground.

3 (28m 31s):
You know, the one thing that I never really thought of until I started hunting was the spiritual aspect. The hunting. That's, it's an, it's a part of it that it's almost indisputable when you experience it. Like when you first experience it, when you first start eating an animal that you, like, the first time you ever took me hunting when we were in Montana and I, remember when I was eating that mule deer and we're sitting over the fire, I was like, this is so different than any meal I've ever had in my life. It's so different. I feel so connected to this animal. I know how difficult it was to do this.

3 (29m 10s):
I know how insane their life is that this is this wild creature that is 100% gonna die soon no matter what. If it's next year or the year after or the year after that, it doesn't have much time left. And if you can move in while you know, and dip your toe into the wild and extract that thing out, to me that was like, oh, this is the best way to eat meat ever. This is 20, 30 times better than just getting a steak from a store. I remember when we were sitting around the fire and you're like, what do you think? I'm like, I'm doing this forever.

4 (29m 45s):
Do you remember that? Yeah. What, what year was that? I don't remember that specific conversation. That was a long time ago. 12 years ago, time ago. Oh, was it really? I 12 years. I was 10 years ago. 12,

3 (29m 52s):
2012.

5 (29m 53s):
Okay. And then you bow hunted in 2014. Yes. Okay. So you, so did you kill I have

3 (29m 57s):
Two people in this room that introduced me to hunting, and that's our Montana Mule deal right there. That's, that's him. That's him. That's him. That's the one. Some

4 (30m 4s):
Shots, the nose, bones.

3 (30m 6s):
Oh, the ones out there. Yeah.

4 (30m 7s):
Well, he's missing this too. Yeah. You need to shake Jamie down. He might have a pocket full of those nose bones.

5 (30m 12s):
I think they, I think they, they boil it out too long, I think. Is that what it is? Yeah.

4 (30m 16s):
Yeah. I always, I always g glue 'em back in. But anyways, sorry.

3 (30m 19s):
That guy is very special to me. That guy is very special to me. First kill and I, remember when we were eating him over the fire, I was sorting my schedule. I was like, okay, how many times a year can I hunt now? Okay, how much, how long is it gonna take to after the, a deer

5 (30m 34s):
First time right

3 (30m 35s):
Away eating it over the fire. Like right away. I was like, oh, I'm doing this forever. This is what I do now. Like right away I was like, okay, now I gotta really research like calibers and rifles and how to do this, how to do that. I gotta up my cardio. I gotta start hiking hills. I started thinking all these things like immediately. Yeah. and I start planning out, okay, I every, I gotta hunt every four months. Like, what can you hunt? I gotta get pigs. 'cause then you can hunt them all year round. Immediately my brain starts spinning. Like, okay, this is what I do now. I was like, okay. I found it.

4 (31m 4s):
I've taken quite a number of people on their first hunting trips. I've never had I mean probably dozens. Maybe dozens either way. I've never had any of 'em regret it. Like no one's ever said, I wish I hadn't done that. But I would say the majority definitely a good strong majority did not pursue it. Didn't regret it. Glad they did it, but didn't make it part of life what's

3 (31m 30s):
Difficult.

4 (31m 31s):
Yeah. Yeah.

3 (31m 32s):
It's difficult. You know, and that's the thing. I think that is the impediment for a lot of people. It's like time consuming. If, if you don't have someone like you or someone like you to teach them, like, I have friends, they're like, Hey, I want you to take me hunting. I'm like, oh Christ don don't have the time. I want to go bow hunting. I'm like, do you know what you're saying? Do you know what you're saying? Yeah. Like, I just want you to come with me one day and watch what I do fucking every day. Yeah.

4 (31m 57s):
Where I'm out, I'm going with my, right now I'm going through that with my kid where my older kid's very interested in bow hunting. but it, it's just, I'm like, man, you have to appreciate the level of discipline, dude, that you gotta to shoot. Right. Like, I'm perpetually rusty. Like, you can't be like me. Right. And, and I actually pulled the plug on him this year where I, I said, if you shoot every day, like he'd been shooting throughout the summer. I said, if you shoot every day prior to this week, we're gonna go Bo Hunt. I said, why Don you shoot every day prior to the week? And he didn't do it. and I said, we're not going. And I'll see if next year that impacts him. Mm. But it's like the discipline.

3 (32m 35s):
It's unfortunate, but I think, you know, there's no way to teach someone that. There's no way to really like, get it into their head how hard it's, unless they're in the field and they're drawing on an animal and then they realize, like, unless there's some ways to mitigate that. Like you've had Joel Turner on, which I, you have, you've had him on, right? No. You never had Joel turnaround? No. The shot IQ guy.

4 (32m 57s):
No. I'd like to, but I never did.

3 (32m 59s):
Oh, I gotta connect you. No. Do you, do you have his number? Do you

4 (33m 1s):
No, but I'm familiar with that. I've, he's been recommended by many people and guys I work with are familiar, but I haven't had him on.

3 (33m 8s):
He's absolutely

4 (33m 9s):
Got And you've recommended him today. Yeah.

3 (33m 11s):
Yes. He's got a a there's a thing that happens when you're in a high pressure situation that I recognize from martial arts and from a lot of other things where you do not have full control of your faculties and your body is operating on anxiety and, and adrenaline. And when it's completely unique, like a bow hunting thing where you have hours and hours and hours and hours and hours of preparation and thinking about it for seconds of action. and it boils down to this one movement where you're like, yikes, if you don't have a strategy for managing your mental state while that's happening, the odds of you flinching or moving or doing something stupid are really, really, really high.

3 (33m 56s):
And Joel Turner went through that for like fucking 15 years. He like, couldn't kill an out, struggled with himself. He's always choking. Yeah. And then when he became a SWAT instructor, when he was, you know, he's on a SWAT team, so he, he's literally like, he was telling me this one story where he had to shoot this guy that was holding a young girl hostage and like, I think it was with a weapon, I forget, a knife or something. And so he has a headshot while this guy is holding onto a girl. And he had to figure out like, what are the, what is the mental process that allows people to flinch and panic during these moments? And he realized it's the difference between open loop systems and closed loop systems.

3 (34m 38s):
And the open loop system is something like swinging a baseball bat. Like once you start swinging, you're just swinging. Mm. You're just wa you know, you're swinging. And unfortunately, with a lot of people, that is the initial reaction. They just

4 (34m 54s):
Go, yeah, I get it. Like, the final thought you have is that you're gonna swing the bat. Yeah. Go. I, I don't know if a professional, I don't know if a, like a friend of mine's a you know, a real homer on hitter don don't know if he would agree. But in my mind, yeah. It's like you've decided to swing and everything else is just nothing.

3 (35m 9s):
Well, you're not gonna stop it in the middle of the

4 (35m 11s):
Swing. Yeah. You're not, you're not thinking about, oh, I'm gonna go a little higher. A little lower. Right.

3 (35m 15s):
Yeah. It's like punching. Yeah. Punching. When you're, when you're fighting, punching comes, it's an automatic movement. Like you slide back and you don't even realize what's happening. You're already punching and you're not gonna stop that punch once you've launched your shoulder forward. And when you are using his system, he has you talking to yourself through every step of it. So you're always conscious. So it's always a closed loop system. You're in complete control. At any step you could stop. And he's like, sometimes the best shot is a shot you don't take. And when you realize you're shaking, you're holding too long let down. That's the best decision you could ever make.

3 (35m 56s):
If you get your mind to like, just shoot now, just go now. And you're now, and we've all seen people, there's so many videos online.

4 (36m 3s):
Dude, I've been there. My Yeah.

3 (36m 5s):
Yeah. Everybody has. But there's a way to mitigate that with this. So it's not just the practice. The practice is great. You have to practice. I practice constantly. But you also should have a pre-shot routine. and I actually use cam's. Pre-shot routine when I was in Utah. 'cause I remember Cam had this thing where he is saying, keep the pin on him. Keep the pin on him. And you say that Yeah. While you're shooting, keep the pin on him. Keep the pin on him.

5 (36m 30s):
I just know if I keep the pin there, it's gonna, arrow's gonna hit good. Yeah. What happens is people drop their bow arm a lot. Yeah. I mean, that's what happens a lot, is that drop that bone arm, they hit too low. Right. So if you keep that pin there, the bow's gonna do

4 (36m 42s):
Its job. Oh, you're saying be con He says it too yourself. You're telling yourself be conscious of keeping the pin on it through the shot. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (36m 48s):
Not moving. 'cause the the moving thing is like, I hope I hit it. Yeah. I hope I hit it. Wow. And that things go left right fucking three, four feet. You're like, how,

5 (36m 57s):
You know, where people realize that they have a problem is after they make a shitty shot. Yeah. And they're just like, why didn't I practice more? Why didn't I Yeah, yeah. Listen to Joel or Joe or whoever. Yeah. Because then that's, then it's real because we have a, a tendency of making things work out in our head the way we want 'em to. And then when it doesn't work out like that, because we haven't put in the time or we don't have a process down and maybe you hit the animal bad, maybe you miss maybe, you know, just shit the bed. And then you're just like, God, what is my, what am I doing? Yeah. But up until then, you're like, you're the baddest person ever. You know what I mean? Yeah. I'm, yeah. That's Of course I'm gonna make a great shot.

4 (37m 37s):
That's an interesting thing between, in, in talking to people that blow a shot with a rifle and talking to people that blow a shot with a bow. People will blow a shot with a rifle and they'll assure you they did everything right.

5 (37m 49s):
Guns on

4 (37m 50s):
Did everything. No one blows a shot with the bow and comes away of saying, don don't know what happened. I did everything. Right.

3 (37m 55s):
Because

4 (37m 55s):
You fall into, like, you fall into, like you're saying, you fall into this like despair and guilt and you're trying to review in your head. I've like, I've accidentally landed on a thing. It's not fail safe, but somehow when you're saying like, keep the pin on 'em, I've landed on this thing like, like remember your elbow. Remember your elbow. And if I remember to like, 'cause when I'm shooting just practicing, I'm always, there's always this thing of, it's like, like sort of consciously being aware of have my elbow raised and that makes everything fall into the line. And so if I'm, if I know I'm gonna get a shot and I can think like if you'll do the part,

5 (38m 27s):
The elbow, if

4 (38m 28s):
You do the part and then that elbow goes up and then everything else sort of like takes care of itself. You know? And then I'll, if I take a shot, I might review in my mind, like, I never did that thing. I never, I never did the elbow deal. Yeah. You know, which drives all the other actions. It it's, it's imperfect, but it's similar to what you're talking about.

3 (38m 46s):
It is something about staying in a conscious state and being able to maintain your composure during that high pressure situation. Maintaining a conscious state where you're talking yourself through it. And not just a a just being a reptile rah. You know, just going, people black out kind of, they black out. They really do. They don't know what Terry is. I know what happened. I don Dunno what happened. Yeah.

4 (39m 7s):
I think you use it up. Maybe. I felt that, if anything, just a gradual dissipation with age and experience, perhaps experience for sure. I'd be curious if some, if some dude started, like if some dude at 60 years old, you know, some dude at 60 years old started bow hunting. Are they gonna wig out like a 20-year-old on their first shot? Depends on who they are. Or is there something that's like their brain's already chilled out?

3 (39m 37s):
I think there's a part of your brain that, like you, there's a, there's a part of your brain that Andrew Huberman talks about. I forget what the exact that grows. Yeah. Yeah. That when you force yourself to do things you don't want to do, when you force yourself to get up in the morning and run in the cold and get in the cold plunge and all these different, it literally grows larger. This part of your brain that is able to do things that are uncomfortable Got it. That you don't wanna do, actually grows larger. and it seems to be that that's a muscle just like every other muscle. Not a muscle, but a thing that is more robust with use. And if you're a 60-year-old guy that's just been working in an office and listening to the boss and driving home and, you know, there's no stress.

3 (40m 20s):
No, no. Like not stress, but no high pressure decision making in the moment. Choices that you have come accustomed to managing and, and, and dealing with and negotiating. If you're, if you're a person, if you're a person that's like fucking gone to war and you know, maybe you've had like some crazy high pressure job and you're 60, you probably got fucking ice water running through your vein. Yeah. By the time you're 60 years old, you're like, you've seen it all. So it depends on the human. But for most people that like, you know, like there's guy like Derrick Wolf. You met Derrick Wolf. Yeah. You have the money podcast. I mean you're talking about a guy that like, has fucking played professional football at the highest level.

3 (40m 60s):
And even he says it's the most exciting shit that he's ever done. Like I've told Cam like so many times, dude, I've done a lot of shit. I've, I've fought, I do standup comedy. I do all so many live things that are like high pressure. Nothing is like elk hunting. Yeah. There's nothing like that moment when you're drawing and that thing is like in the field and it's, it drops his head down at 50 yards and start eating and you draw back and you got the, you're like, is this happening? Is this really going on right now? It's so pressure filled. It's, it's so, it's such a novel and unique moment that unless you have a bunch of those moments, like I'm at the point now, you know, 10 years into bow hunting where when I draw on an animal, I can keep my shit together.

3 (41m 46s):
Yeah. And now to me it's just like making sure I'm steady and the shot's good. There's nothing weird going on. There's no weird wind or, and I just go through my process and I'm very confident now. But it's numbers. It's numbers. Like if you, I always tell people like, the more things that you can shoot the better. And you could shoot pigs, you shoot things that people have to kill. You know, if you can go to Lanai where you can get like multiple shot opportunities on Axis Deer, that kind of situation. That's for me the difference between like how I feel in September during elk season and like some years where I feel great and super confident. It's always that I went on a couple other hunts.

3 (42m 27s):
Yeah. It's always like, so you get that experience. I used to feel fighting too. Like if I got like one, a couple times I got injured and I couldn't fight for like six months and then I'd fight. but it almost like it was like brand new again. Like when I'd be in there like, whoa, this is crazy. The first time you see people fight, they're in a panic. It's like you can't believe it's actually happening. You're like, are you ready? And you're like, yes. You know,

5 (42m 51s):
Like,

3 (42m 52s):
And they get out there. And if you're an experienced person, it's one of the reasons why like champions have such a massive advantage. They have this such a massive psychological advantage because they're the champion. And they'd be like, you would see guys when they would fight Mike Tyson, they had already lost by the time they got in there. They look at him like, oh my God, what is happening? Is this real? Like their whole world was like that big and they were just in a full like panic and they just couldn't fight.

5 (43m 17s):
Well, you know, that's, that's kind of similar to how people feel bow hunting elk for the first time. A hundred percent I mean that bull's coming in. Yeah. They're, they they lost. Yeah. When that bull's coming in and it's coming to 20 yards, it's just like, there's, there's a chance. But I remember the first time we had a, your first bow hunt. We were in Colorado. The two bulls were coming in in this little tight creek. We were in this little draw coming in at the same time and they were just bugling and it was insane. Not even big bowls, but just coming in and closing down on us. And you remember that moment? Yeah. You were just like, it was unbelievable. It's so nuts. Even though all the shit that you've done Yeah. This high level crazy stuff that there was nothing that compared to that.

5 (43m 58s):
The

3 (43m 59s):
Screaming

5 (44m 1s):
When

3 (44m 2s):
There and they're like 30 yards doing that. Like the sound is so nuts. Like if you are not a person that's ever been around elk calling, when they do it, when they bugle, it sounds like Lord of the Rings man. Yeah. It's such a,

4 (44m 16s):
It can get unnerving crazy

3 (44m 17s):
Sound. Yeah. It's so crazy.

5 (44m 19s):
It can be intimidating if you're not ready for it.

4 (44m 21s):
There's a thing Derrick Wolf told me when you're talking about the stress and competitive stress. He told me a thing that had never occurred to me before. He talked about getting in the ring to fight Mike Tyson or whatever is in hi in his thing. You're also, there's a thing where you can get, you're starstruck. Yeah. Like picture you're an incoming player Okay. And you're real young and all of a sudden you're like, oh, I'm supposed to go tackle Tom Brady. Yeah. Who I've been watching.

3 (44m 49s):
Right.

4 (44m 49s):
I've been watching my, my through my whole like coming up through high school Yeah. Coming through college and all of a sudden like, wow, that's him. Yeah.

5 (44m 59s):
There's the

4 (44m 60s):
Goat. Right. You gotta sort of put that outta your head. Right. You're like, you'll be like, hang tight, let me get his interview, then I'll come, let me get his autograph and then I'll come back and then I'll tackle him.

5 (45m 9s):
Yeah. Like, yeah. I mean the goat. You've heard how you know he's the best to ever do it. Yeah. And then all of a sudden it's like almost like, you know, I'm a big fan, I'd like to meet you. Sorry for having to do this.

3 (45m 19s):
But isn't that also the case with bow hunters where like, you've been hunting your whole life hoping to see a two, 200 inch buck. And then one day you're in the mountains and this mule deer steps out. You're like, oh

4 (45m 30s):
Yeah.

3 (45m 31s):
Like this is it, you're imagining taking the photo, smiling on Instagram. You're imagining you see this wide mule deer buck. Like, this is crazy. This is a real one. I can make this happen. You're like, everything is just full panic.

4 (45m 46s):
I, clay Newcomb just did a bear grease episode about a guy a, a poacher and he interviews the guy at length and this guy played softball on a army base. They had like a athletic complex. And a couple times he sees this giant buck and the people were aware of this giant buck and he was trying to figure out if it was possible to kill it, as he calls it, kill it, right. Or kill it. Legal. And one day he just happens to have his bow in his car and sees it not anywhere he's supposed to hunt. And the way he describes it, he describes it like he was out of his mo out of his body and he shoots it and the minute it falls over, he thinks you'll never get away with this.

4 (46m 28s):
Oh God. But he lo not only like, where was he not only lost, I can't, I think he's in Missouri. Yeah. Missouri.

3 (46m 33s):
So was he in the wrong unit or was he on private player? He

4 (46m 36s):
Was on a military. He was on a military base. But you're not even, you can't hunt.

3 (46m 39s):
Oh wow.

4 (46m 40s):
And not only like losing, not only losing your mind as you're drawing back, he lost his mind in the whole thing, getting his bow out of his thing and kills the buck. And then he, the minute he kills it, it occurs to, to what he's done.

3 (46m 59s):
So what did he do?

4 (47m 0s):
It's a whole epi. It's two episodes about just horrible whatever. Wow. I mean. I I you gotta walk a real fine line. I mean he did, like, as he admits, you know, I mean he did, he did a criminal act. And it's not like sympathetic of the criminal act, but it's a winds up being a story of the unraveling of someone's life about just a mistake. But, but being that, that a that sort of lost for that animal. Right.

5 (47m 26s):
I guess we should be thankful that Derrick Wolf never saw Tom Brady out of pizza. Then you know what I mean? Could just fricking light him up. Sack him. Yeah.

3 (47m 36s):
Right.

4 (47m 37s):
I got him. I

3 (47m 37s):
Got him. I'm glad you that he's a lie in front of you at Burger King. You just fucking go for it.

5 (47m 43s):
I lost my mind. It was Tom Brady.

3 (47m 46s):
I just fucking don don't know. I've just been programmed to tackle 'em.

5 (47m 50s):
Yeah. No, but that, I, I think I was thinking back too on, you said when you're not ready for it. My, the, my first two year, my first year bow hunting, my first year rifle hunting, I was 15 when I was rifle hunting. We did this drive, we used to do drives. Right. Oh hell yeah.

4 (48m 4s):
Not really hitting drives with the all night.

5 (48m 6s):
Yeah. Not really hitting pans, but not far from it. So you send the guys and then put the whoever the shooters on the stand.

4 (48m 13s):
Oh. Can I ask you real quick, did you call 'em? Yes. What were the names you used? We have, we debate this all the time. What, who was Okay, what were the terms you used? Pushers. Sitters.

5 (48m 23s):
Yeah. That was it. Okay. You

4 (48m 25s):
Pushers and sitters. Yeah. Or it's, it's very regional

5 (48m 27s):
Or on the stand. Like it Oh, on the stand. Yeah. You're, you're on the stand and then we're pushing to you. Okay.

4 (48m 31s):
Yeah.

5 (48m 32s):
But so I was there had this, let's see, 300 savage, just old gun, but 15 years old doing the push. Okay, go here. I didn't even know if I was in the right spot. I'm just like, God, I'm by myself. Just don't know anything. And then all of a sudden I look up and here's this buck, boom, giant mule deer. I, I don't even know how big it was, but it looked, and I was just like, shop, no clue. don don't. I never, probably never saw it in the scope. It was like, probably seemed like from me to you. and I was just like, had no idea what happened. Oh, was I prepared to kill that buck? Hell no. So I killed a spike buck like the next day.

5 (49m 13s):
Right. And that's how it works. You're not ready for a giant, right. Then same thing with bow hunting. First day bow hunting. This giant bull comes out seven by six Roosevelt. First day I, I'm like sit on kneeling in this logging road. Felt like my arms were asleep, they were tingling. I'm like, I didn't know if I could draw this bow back. He's broadside head to the right, but to the left. and I shoot at it is like right at 40 yards and I miss behind his butt. So I'm off like six feet at 40 yards and then end up killing a spike bull. So it's just, it's, you're just not ready for those, the giant, you know. But

3 (49m 53s):
That's where I think Joel Turner comes into play because

5 (49m 55s):
Don don't know if he could have helped me. I don't know if

3 (49m 57s):
He could have helped

5 (49m 58s):
I mean at, at that time

4 (49m 60s):
He'd had to been like, gimme that bow.

3 (50m 2s):
Yeah, it probably wouldn't you, you probably weren't totally ready for that at that moment. But if you have a certain level of proficiency and a certain amount of experience in, in mitigating high pressure situations Yeah. Then I think you could get

5 (50m 15s):
Through it. Right. Because I see I've been teaching a lot of people to shoot a bow for the first time on the lift run shoot show that I do. Joel Turner isn't gonna tell them anything. No I mean. It's like there's so many basics you have to get before that. Oh yeah. But as you said, once you get that routine down and you're kind of more seasoned, then I think that can that closed loop, open loop, then that would make more sense. Well

3 (50m 38s):
It was so attractive to me when I first started shooting a bow. I was like, God, there are so many, you get lost in this. Like there's so much going on just in your yard when you're shooting at a target. There's so much mental and physical and there's so many things that have to align. Like I have a checklist that I have on my phone that before I go hunting, like when I'm on the plane flying to wherever I'm going, I look at my notes on my phone and I go over my checklist and I bounce it around in my head. Did you process stuff? Yeah, I have a a shot process. Not

4 (51m 12s):
Like boots, socks stuff.

3 (51m 13s):
No, no, no, no, no. I get all that that that I'm terrible with too. I just stuff everything in there. I'm like, I think I got it all in there. I really need to organize it. Like if I was gonna go on like one of

5 (51m 23s):
Those and you take away more than you need.

3 (51m 24s):
A hundred percent. If I was gonna go on one of those backpacking mountain hunts where you're carrying your whole camp on your back and you're walking in for fucking 20 miles, I'd be the guy that has like the 80 pound pack because they threw in extra batteries and extra broadheads in case did happens and hiding

4 (51m 38s):
Stuff in the bushes on way up

3 (51m 40s):
Two knives. Just

4 (51m 41s):
In

3 (51m 42s):
Case, you know, meanwhile, like Adam Greentree has been doing it forever. That motherfucker saws his toothbrushes in half. Yeah. To cut weight. You would like, he's got it down to his science.

5 (51m 50s):
You would do that one time. One

3 (51m 51s):
Time. Yeah. Exactly.

5 (51m 52s):
That's how you learn that. Everybody's learned, learned that.

3 (51m 55s):
So my process for packing is just fucking shove it all in there and mostly likely. I ha I always have two range finders and two binos in case I drop something. And you know, remember that time we were hunting in Canada and I broke my rest. I did. My rest snapped. I did, but I had a whisker biscuit. I was ready. I was like, ah,

4 (52m 13s):
That was good. That's good.

5 (52m 14s):
He was being obsessive out there with his rest just like wrenching on it for hours and changing and doing all this and end up stripping something out. 'cause he's like got too crazy on the rest.

3 (52m 24s):
Well it was fucking up on me. Yeah. It was fucking up. The rest wasn't dropping all the way and it, so like my arrow was catching it like the fletching were catching and I'm like, what the fuck is going on? And then I was like, oh look at my rest. It's like slightly up above the riser. I'm like, God damnit, I'm fucking getting in here. and I. Oh no. Oh no. But whisker biscuits man. I know they take a couple of seconds away from your feet percent. But boy those fucking easy to tune. Oh

4 (52m 53s):
Yeah. It's a lot less, lot less little stuff to go wrong. For sure.

3 (52m 56s):
I know fucking high level hunters still use whisker biscuits just 'cause they don't wanna fuck around with anything.

5 (53m 2s):
It's like for that hunt, it's perfect. You're gonna be shooting at 10 or 20 yards, you know, or a, or a white tail hunter. They're shooting at 20 yards. Yeah. So if you're gonna be shooting long distance, a fletch going through with all that contact through the, through the whisker, basically that's gonna impact long distance.

3 (53m 18s):
For sure. Well, apparently really impacts it when you have helical. Yeah. Right. So if you have straight, so helic for people that are listening, there's a, an angle that the fletching are placed in that accentuates this, the spinning of the arrow, which makes it more accurate and you know that's what you want. Right. So some people don't use that. They just have straight up and down fletching, which is still good. You know, you could still shoot very accurately with straight up and down fletching. But most like really good archers prefer a he like you have a he. Yeah.

5 (53m 51s):
Give a little direction to that energy. So the, so the arrow won't

4 (53m 54s):
Plane. Right. But that whisker biscuit accelerates that spin makes it immediate though. Well

3 (53m 58s):
It fucks up the fletching 'cause it's a, it's twisting as it's going through all that. Those, those hairs. Yeah. Yeah. Whereas if you have a straight, you know, straight fletching, it's just gonna pass through. It only takes a few feet. Tim Burnett still hunts with a whisker biscuit. Mm. I was watching one of his YouTube videos. I mean that guy's fucking killed everything. He's been around forever. You know solo hunter, you know Remy's buddy? Yeah. And you know, he's a really good hunter and he uses a whisker biscuit. and I was like, this is crazy. I mean, maybe he's only using it on this one video that I saw. But I was like, there's a lot of people that just go, I don wanna cut. Just like a lot of people don't fuck with mechanicals. Like it's too many things that can go wrong. I'm not gonna fuck around with it.

4 (54m 33s):
The last thing I did with mine is I put it on my fish bow, but it won't flow A fiberglass arrow. I realized, oh, too heavy. You know what I'm saying? Oh right. I was like, man, this is gonna be Genius for fish hunting. Right. but it just, the arrow just goes

3 (54m 45s):
Right through it.

4 (54m 46s):
Don the hairs. Yeah.

3 (54m 47s):
That looks like a lot of fun. Like bow hunting for fish.

4 (54m 50s):
Oh, I love it man. Well, a lot of fun. Well, well the problem is you just get limited to a fish that aren you get limited in the US you get limited to a lot of fish species that are not as desirable. Right.

3 (55m 5s):
To like gar and carp and stuff like

4 (55m 7s):
That. Down in South America you're hunting like the best, the best of the best fish. Yeah. With a bus. Yeah. Oh, but I mean you're hunting like the most coveted food fish. Which is fun because I mean how many, you know, how many carp do you want? Yeah. We used to do it when we were kids, man. We'd shoot all kind of carp. But I, I just, you know,

3 (55m 26s):
Isn't it wild that carp were like prized in Europe?

4 (55m 28s):
Yeah. I know. It doesn't make any sense. They

3 (55m 30s):
Like, they go out,

4 (55m 31s):
I should say. It doesn't make any sense that they didn't, but don don't know where we went. don don't know how we went so wrong. Yeah. It's weird, right? They put 'em all over thinking everybody's going to eat 'em all the time. Yeah. It just like did not take off. Well

3 (55m 41s):
They ruined lakes. Yeah. The, where I live on Lake Austin, there's a buddy of mine who's one of my neighbors who's a, a fisherman. And he said, man, you should have been here before they brought carp. He goes, there's all sorts of vegetation in here. And the bass were everywhere. But now he goes, if you can get a camera and look at the bottom of this lake, it looks like the bottom of a swimming pool. There's fucking nothing there. Yeah.

4 (56m 2s):
There's terrible everything. But the fact that it was intentional. Yeah. There's so many non-native, there's so many invasive species that were unintentional. But the fact that for the, for the most part, the common carp was they were doing everybody a favor.

3 (56m 15s):
I think they thought they were doing a favor for rich people on Lake Austin. 'cause I think they wanted people to have less vegetation so they could take their boats out. Got it. That's what I think. And that's what he thinks too. I mean. I got this from him. He was like, I think they just wanted to clean up the vegetation. 'cause it was unsightly. And he was, and they fucked this place up. 'cause he was on a boat and the, when I, when I met him, he was casting under my dock, you know, and I. I went out there and I was like, what's going on man? You

4 (56m 40s):
Weren't yelling at him? No,

3 (56m 42s):
I've, I've seen that on your show. No, I like it. I always, when I see those guys and they, they're always like a little nervous. So I was like, how you doing man?

4 (56m 49s):
Like, oh man, this guy's gonna yell at

3 (56m 51s):
Me. I was telling this guy like the other day that there's like this four pound bass that lives underneath my dock. I go, Hey man, that's a pretty good bass that lives underneath dock. And he's like, really? I go, yeah, cut fish it, man. I started talking to him. But this, my friend Alan, shout out to Alan, who's my neighbor. He catches, all he catches is big bass. He goes, I don't even try for, he's, he uses a big ass fucking Rapala. He has like one of those jointed rapalas and it iss like fucking six inches long. He's like, don don't even fuck around. He goes, I just want big bass. 'cause there's, there's like 15, 16 pound bass in that lake. Whoa. And so he, he catches some big ones. He, he sends me some whoppers defenders. The eight year effort to bring vegetation back to Lake Austin. Yeah. That's it.

3 (57m 31s):
Bass in the country. Yeah. Really? They fucked it up. They fucked it up. There's still good bass there. Lemme show you like what Alan catches. He's catches some big ass fucking bass in my,

5 (57m 42s):
Where we used to. Me and Roy used to be addicted to car hunting. 'cause we'd go, they'd be spawning in the spring after we poured concrete. He had a construction company. We'd pour concrete, then we'd go and go try to get cart for bear bait. So before they outlawed it, 94 in Oregon, we'd get carp, catch these giant carp, have a wheelbarrow, get 'em all back, put 'em in a like a 55 gallon drum, put the lid on it and then we'd make stink. So we'd call, we needed some stink to get the bear bait going. 'cause if you got that rotten carp and a, and a gunny sack and you put it way up a tree where they couldn't get it, that stink smell would go for five miles down the draw. And then all the bear would come in.

5 (58m 23s):
Right. So I just remember this one time we had it in that bunch of carp and 55 gallon drum. After a while that kind of builds pressure. We didn't, we weren't really thinking about this. So we go to take that lid off and it fricking explodes and this shit smells so I mean maggots, carps, rotten carp exploded all over us. Insane. Have you ever

3 (58m 47s):
Seen those videos of when whales explode on beaches?

4 (58m 50s):
Yeah. When they, well I see 'em when they blow 'em up.

3 (58m 52s):
This is when Alan just caught this in front of my house the other day.

5 (58m 55s):
God dang. That's giant.

3 (58m 57s):
Yeah. He catches some big ass bass. That's a

5 (58m 59s):
Real nice fish

3 (58m 59s):
Man. Yeah. I think the, that

4 (59m 1s):
Can be interested in bass fishing.

3 (59m 2s):
Yeah. He catch a lot. Here's another one he just got. And whenever he catches one, he sends it to me. Yeah. We're homies now. Those

5 (59m 9s):
Are a

3 (59m 9s):
Big fish. But yeah, that's the weird thing is the dock thing. Like, I encourage it. I'm, I'm happy when I see people, like I love all manner of outdoor activities. I would never want someone to not fish near my dock. That's like so stupid.

4 (59m 20s):
Yeah. I I think it, I think it's it's a repulsive behavior. It's

3 (59m 24s):
Repulsive. Yeah. It's not, it's not your, it's, it's a dock. Like let people fish, let you should talk to them. They're your friends. They like, wouldn't you do it if you didn't have a dock and there was a dock and you knew the fish hang out under the dock, wouldn't you fish there? Yeah. Yeah. So what the fuck is wrong with you?

4 (59m 39s):
Yeah. So it's, or it's like, well you're gonna have to move your dock 'cause there's a fish under there that I not gonna fish for.

3 (59m 46s):
But this, this is the, the situation where that's where they go. They go where it's shade. They go where they can ambush and they, they all go under docks and, you know, hanging trees and anything they can get because they fucked it up with carp.

5 (59m 59s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 0m 0s):
I was living in Seattle for a while and there's, we would fish small mouth and, and perch and stuff. and it sing at Lake Washington, which is like right downtown. And there's this, I was in this neighborhood where they have these apartment buildings that are on pilings. So there's just full on apartment buildings out over the water built on piers. And they would cast shadows and fish would collect there. And you'd, you'd be in a boat, man. I mean you're like, like besides being out in some dude's front yard under their dock, you're fishing where you're, you're right here almost looking into the window, you know, of someone eating breakfast. But your your cast right there, which felt much more intimate and kind of creepy.

4 (1h 0m 43s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 0m 44s):
That's weird.

4 (1h 0m 45s):
That, that felt weird. Like weirder than, you know, like I said, where you got a house than a yard than a dock. Like, that's not weird, but you could get where you could basically like awkwardly wave at someone in their bathroom Yeah. While you're trying to

5 (1h 0m 58s):
Fish. Yeah. Just don't make eye contact. Sitting there taking a shit looking out the window.

3 (1h 1m 4s):
Yeah. The, the, the the the doc thing is a weird one. Man. It's a weird one. 'cause I, I get it. If you're not a fisherman and you're just some asshole that just doesn't want anybody near your house,

4 (1h 1m 15s):
What they're gonna tell you, what they always tell you is that some guy's gonna take a lead head jig and chip the paint, chip the paint on the boat, ding the dock. Like that's their claim.

3 (1h 1m 27s):
Okay.

4 (1h 1m 27s):
Is that they're, they're gonna whack your whack your stuff with a lead head jig.

3 (1h 1m 32s):
I feel like that's the same as if you're driving off road. Like, and you, you're worried about pebbles. We gotta get these fucking pebbles outta here. Like you're, you're driving off road.

4 (1h 1m 40s):
Yeah. It'd be like, well, don't put your stuff out over the public water. Yeah.

3 (1h 1m 44s):
And it, what are you doing? A boat's not a car man. Like it's a boat. It's supposed to get scratched up a little. Like, you don't want your boat scratched up a little. Like

5 (1h 1m 52s):
What? Some people don't No.

3 (1h 1m 53s):
What the fuck? I don't get it. You know what I'm saying? Like Yeah. If you've got, like, if you, you're on a ranch and you got those stripes on the down the side of your truck,

4 (1h 2m 3s):
Arizona pin stripes. Yeah. Like,

3 (1h 2m 5s):
That's kind of cool

5 (1h 2m 6s):
That you break it in. Yeah. That's what you do when it's new.

3 (1h 2m 9s):
You got, you kind of want that. I kind of want that. I I like a car that's been fucking used, you know?

5 (1h 2m 16s):
Yeah. Well you have 20 cars, so

3 (1h 2m 18s):
I do. Even didn't, I'm pretty sure that's how I would think. You know,

5 (1h 2m 23s):
I was thinking, I was thinking about your shot. You know why I think that that helps when you do the elbow? Because when you get that elbow right, you're pulling hard against that back wall. A lot of people creep on their shot. Mm. Like, they'll get, they'll aim and it, everything's going good. They're pulling hard. And then as they're aiming, they're kind of relaxing.

4 (1h 2m 42s):
Oh. And then

5 (1h 2m 43s):
That cam is kind of rolling over, it's called creeping. That'll throw off your shot. So I think when you think of that elbow consciously, it makes you think of pulling hard against that wall, which that's where the boat performs best. Kyle Douglas

3 (1h 2m 54s):
Pulls so hard that he's made bows break. Yeah. He's broken Bows like,

4 (1h 2m 59s):
Like pulling into the back wall. Yeah. Pull hard. and I even thought about what you're saying, but it makes good sense,

5 (1h 3m 4s):
Kyle. I think that's why it helps you.

3 (1h 3m 5s):
Kyle Douglas, who's a fucking you is like

4 (1h 3m 7s):
One of the best of the best.

3 (1h 3m 10s):
Yeah. I, I changed my shot quite a bit when I started pulling really hard against the wall. Really hard. You know, I pull fucking hard. I have that locked in. And it also changed when I stopped using the resistance attention release. Mm. Because Dudley had me on what's called a silverback, which is I think one of the best methods for learning how to shoot because you have a safety, you pull and then the, it's all tension based. So when you have the safety on, you could pull it hard. And then when you release the safety, you just pull a little more and it goes off. And you could set it to like two, three pounds, whatever the amount of difference. So like, say if you have a 70 pound bow, you set it to 72 pounds or whatever it is at, at, you know, when you're at, you know, a full draw, whatever the, you know, the drop off is.

3 (1h 3m 56s):
So they have this resistance setting where you can, you tweak it in your yard at like, you know, five yards where you're right in front of the target and you get it to the point where it's at the back wall and then you just pull a little more and it's snaps and breaks and it makes her perfect release. and I use that forever. But then when I really started pulling hard in the back wall, I was making it go off when I didn't want it to go off. And then when I switched releases, then I'm like, oh, that's definitely the most, because you're much more steady when you're like, when I'm fucking locked out, I'm locked out. Like I'm engaged in my back when I'm shooting at something I am, everything is locked out. You know? and I find that to be way more stable.

5 (1h 4m 35s):
Is is your front elbow locked out?

3 (1h 4m 38s):
My front elbow is locked out. Norm?

5 (1h 4m 39s):
Yeah. I mean, I

3 (1h 4m 40s):
I used to bend it. Yeah. I used to bend it a little. But then I was listening to this one guy and he said, if you were gonna lean against something and want to be totally stable, wouldn't you lock your arm out? If you're leaning against a wall and you want it to be completely rigid, I was like, oh, that makes total sense.

5 (1h 4m 54s):
No, that's when you want strength. You're, it's bent. Like if you fall, you're not, you're not falling like this.

3 (1h 5m 1s):
You're falling. Falling. Right. Yeah.

5 (1h 5m 3s):
But, and if you're, when you're like benching, like when you have strength like that, it's not locked out though. You're stronger.

4 (1h 5m 8s):
Yeah. Think of trying to push your take brought when your buddy's car gets stuck and you're trying to help 'em push, you're not locked out.

3 (1h 5m 14s):
Right. But that's strength. I'm not looking for strength. I'm looking for stability. Yeah. Mm. I mean I have plenty of strength. The strength is not the issue. The the thing is for me is if I'm locked out, that's less movement. Hmm. I'm completely locked, but then I'm

4 (1h 5m 26s):
Never, my I mean. I'm not saying you know

3 (1h 5m 28s):
It. So there's a very,

4 (1h 5m 29s):
I'm anything but a I'm anything but a Dudley

3 (1h 5m 31s):
Doesn't agree with it. Competitive

4 (1h 5m 32s):
Archer. But yeah. I've never heard that in my life.

3 (1h 5m 34s):
Dudley doesn't agree with it most.

5 (1h 5m 35s):
Like, I, I just I know this. Well, I shoot with a bent. We teach everybody to have it a little bit bent. But Wayne always references this poster of these premier ho ho shooters and they all have the exact same form. Mm. And they're all slightly bent.

3 (1h 5m 51s):
Yeah. Oh man. I find, I find myself better when I'm locked out. Hey,

5 (1h 5m 55s):
Listen, the thing is if it works for you Yeah. Who gives a fuck what anybody else says? Because everybody says I anchor wrong with my thumb behind my neck. Right. So it's like, you know it, whatever, if arrows,

3 (1h 6m 6s):
That doesn't make any sense to me.

5 (1h 6m 7s):
If the arrows going where it's supposed to,

3 (1h 6m 9s):
That the, the, the, the, the problem with the thumb behind the neck makes no sense to me. That seems to me to be way better. Because if you're anchored behind your neck, that's one more part of contact and that's one more thing that's locked in. You're like completely rigid. That thumb only has that much give and then it's behind your neck. I would do it if my neck wasn't so bad.

4 (1h 6m 27s):
I keep needing to see what all this is. Yeah. You see that doesn't seem crazy. No,

3 (1h 6m 31s):
I've never done it, but, well you see Cam do it Cam he gets his fucking thumb behind his head.

5 (1h 6m 36s):
And the reason why,

4 (1h 6m 37s):
And your thumb's looking for a little spot probably too,

5 (1h 6m 39s):
Right? Yeah. Kind of. Yeah. Now I don, you know where it's at. don don't even think about it. But how it used to be, back in the day when we started, everybody like there was 30 inch bows, 29 inch bows and that's about it. Draw length. So mine 27 and a half, I just had like a bow that was way too long. So I'm just like this. And that's where it started. Well you're just

4 (1h 6m 59s):
Looking for something. So

5 (1h 6m 60s):
I'm like, God, I'm trying to like, just hold

3 (1h 7m 2s):
It. A lot of guys do that behind the neck and they'll tell you not to do it. I do not understand the logic. Don't do it.

5 (1h 7m 7s):
We, we started, because the bow, the draw length thing, people weren't really fitting bows to the shooter at that time. Right. It was just like, here's the bow, here's what we got. Good luck. Yeah. Yeah. And that's what we do.

4 (1h 7m 17s):
It's like your brother's bow or whatever.

5 (1h 7m 19s):
Yeah. Who somebody gave it to you. But it's funny calling Harkening back to the old days. I just had Waddell on the show. So me, Wayne, and Waddell were shooting at the bow rack and we all have still trigger releases. You know, like nowadays the cool thing is the handheld. Right? Right. But we're all old school still shooting. You know, like my wife spa

3 (1h 7m 39s):
The next finger.

5 (1h 7m 39s):
Yeah. White guy. Just a trigger release like that. And we were shooting pretty dang good. We had a shooting contest all in the Xs and I said, let's get a picture of these releases. 'cause it's kind of a novelty now. It's like just the old guys shoot those.

3 (1h 7m 53s):
Well there's still real good competitive arches. Like Gillingham Gillingham is one of the greatest of all time. And he uses a trigger, you know, and he'll tell you. And the way he says it, he goes this thing about target panic. He goes, it's all just a mental weakness. He's like, when you're looking at a target, I mean obviously he's like, one of the best of the best is is a different animal. But he's like, when you're looking at a target, like if you're practicing in your yard, you can do it right. You can hit it not flinch. He's like, it's a mental weakness. That's all it is. And he's like, I prefer to command fire. He goes, I know when that pin is over that Target and I can stay steady and let it go. But he's got all kinds of wild, wacky releases. He has. He he's always tinkering with shit.

3 (1h 8m 33s):
So he has weird releases that are like six inches long and then like leaning forward and pull like he gets it in his head.

4 (1h 8m 39s):
Modern stuff.

3 (1h 8m 40s):
Yeah. Modern stuff. But he, he adjusts his stuff. He's got some weird ones, man. Where you look at the like extended releases, like he's got a lot of wacky, like I wouldn't want emulate it unless you were him. Yeah. He's also a fucking giant six foot six dude. And you know, it's like he's got crazy long.

5 (1h 8m 58s):
He shot so much. He has a crease in his nose. Swear to God from the string.

4 (1h 9m 4s):
I mean. I mean That's good. I know guys that wore groove in your teeth cut fish line, you know.

5 (1h 9m 8s):
Yeah. Say that's good. Yeah.

3 (1h 9m 9s):
Same

5 (1h 9m 9s):
Thing. He's got that just where that string sits, it's like a crease.

3 (1h 9m 13s):
Yeah.

5 (1h 9m 14s):
I guy shot a lot of arrows. I

4 (1h 9m 15s):
Like That's

3 (1h 9m 16s):
Great. I like a handheld 'cause I've been doing handhelds for so long, but when I'm here, I practice with your release. Mm. In my range. Yeah. I, I have the wise guy

5 (1h 9m 24s):
I think for hunting. I think it's an, I think for just controlled situations where you got All day, I think the handhelds the way to go in an animal. You have to do command. Sometimes

3 (1h 9m 35s):
I mean. Oh, sometimes you do. Yeah.

5 (1h 9m 36s):
You have to punch the fuck out of that trigger sometimes. And I've killed a lot of animals doing it. Yeah.

3 (1h 9m 40s):
Sometimes if you can keep it together. Yeah. There's moments where you like, you gotta shoot now, you can't wait for the hinge to break. Right.

5 (1h 9m 46s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 9m 47s):
I be, there's certain things, like I remember taking one of those home and messing with it and I had the same, I had the same feeling I had when my nephew was trying to explain chess. Like the game of chess to me where I was like, that's pretty cool. Realistically I'm not gonna Right. I'm not gonna figure this out. Yeah. Right, right. I admire it. I'm not, and I took that, that attention thing out in my yard. Yeah. And after a couple minutes I'm like, are you honestly,

5 (1h 10m 16s):
I'm going back to checkers.

4 (1h 10m 17s):
Are you honestly gonna figure this out? And I was like, at my age as much as I shoot, I'm just not gonna Well, and I went back and I just, and I. So I shoot a, a trigger and I'll shoot that trigger to I'm dead. You

3 (1h 10m 30s):
Shoot the same trigger he does. Yeah. You shoot the wise guy. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good one too, because it's hot. Yeah. You, you're not yanking on it and pulling it and there's not a lot of like weird movement. Like when you touch that fucker, it's going off.

4 (1h 10m 39s):
Yeah. There's certain yeah. That there's a type of trap called a MB seven 50 that release. It just seems like really nice little mechanical contraptions. Like, I just like it. It's like you pull, it's like, it's so like ding. Yeah. It's so clean. Yeah.

3 (1h 10m 56s):
Well I like, I use a, a thumb trigger now. I've been using a thumb trigger over the last few years and I still use a hinge too. You know, I like a hinge too, because there's something about a hinge where I hear that click and I know, okay, here we go. Yeah. And that keeps me in the moment. So I hear that, well I pull, I hear that click. I'm like, okay, everything. Keep the shot process going and then it goes off. But the problem with that is when it's windy, like the, one of the things that I found, especially like hunting it to hone, you know how windy it gets up there in those canyons?

4 (1h 11m 25s):
Oh. When you're trying to punch as it drifts over,

3 (1h 11m 27s):
You can't do it. Yeah. You gotta, you have to have a trigger. Yeah. You have to, you have to be able to control fire occasionally, but you, but it helps you to have that process of recognizing that a, a surprise shot is important. At least an element of surprise where it's not like now, but it's like, just go to the, and I can, you know, like with a thumb trigger, you can make it go off, but you can also have its surprise. Yeah. So to me that's the best of both worlds.

4 (1h 11m 53s):
But that's a strange situation to be in when you're thinking the next time that pin blows over that target I'm gonna punch. Yeah.

3 (1h 12m 1s):
That's what happens to some people. The mind fuck of target panic is crazy. When you hear about people that can't get the pin on the target, they can hold like six inches under the target. But once they rise up to the target, like, yeah, yeah. Everything starts getting shaky.

4 (1h 12m 16s):
My body wants to put that pin, my body wants to put that pin just to the left. Ooh.

5 (1h 12m 22s):
Yeah. Well that's, that's

4 (1h 12m 23s):
Like, I don't know why. 'cause I think don don't wanna obstruct it. Yeah.

5 (1h 12m 25s):
You wanna see that,

4 (1h 12m 26s):
See what you want. You like, you know, like it, so I gotta, when I bring it up, like if I bring a cross hair on something, the cross hair is gonna go, I, if I bring the pin up, it's gonna wanna sit just left so I can still look. Mm. And then I gotta go, like, now I'm gonna bring it over where it belongs.

3 (1h 12m 40s):
You know, what's the greatest thing of all time? It has some problems, but it's the greatest thing of all time. And I know they're gonna eventually work this out. Is that Garmin release? Do you saw that one that I was using last year?

5 (1h 12m 49s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 12m 49s):
No, the site I stopped using. Yeah. Garmin site. Excuse me. I stopped using it because I've had, I had some problems ranging things, but damnit when it works, it's a clear window with a just a a LE d.no

4 (1h 13m 3s):
Obstruction,

3 (1h 13m 3s):
Just like a red dot with a pistol. It's fucking magic. It's magic because there's no obstruction. You just put that pin right where it is, you can see through the pin because it's an LED. It's amazing. But it's just, there's some problems with ranging. Like when I'm in my yard and I'm at 74 yards, I know it's 74 yards and, but I'll put that pin on it. I hit, hit the button and then it'll say 67, 85, 73. I'm like, what the fuck? And I'm like, I can't, I can't have this mind fuck. And so last year I stopped using it and I went, oh, well I stopped using it because when we went to Utah, they made it illegal. So I didn't, I I hunted a full day with that release and luckily didn't shoot anything.

3 (1h 13m 44s):
And then we went back and then Colton said, you know, I, I think that's illegal here now. Yeah, yeah.

5 (1h 13m 50s):
I don. and I'm like, what? don don't think you didn't hunt. You just practiced.

3 (1h 13m 53s):
Well I definitely didn't shoot anything. No, don't. But I did go out with it, but I didn't even I don go to full draw. But I didn't go out with it. Luckily I found out, like imagine I was thinking imagine if you killed something, a photo with that. Oh. And you didn't know. Because the year before I had shot my elk

5 (1h 14m 7s):
With that. They changed it in April. Yeah. Yeah. and it just, you know, some little change in the law that

4 (1h 14m 13s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 14m 13s):
That I didn't know about. Yeah. It's a dumb change because it only makes it more effective and it's not easier. It's just you're more ethical. Like

4 (1h 14m 21s):
Yeah. But there's a, they ha I mean

3 (1h 14m 24s):
It's a range finder.

4 (1h 14m 25s):
Yeah. But the states are gonna ha like they, they have to try to like play the technology game because they just have to.

3 (1h 14m 32s):
I agree to a certain extent, but if you're gonna allow range finders, why do you allow range finders? Because you don't want people guessing. Yeah. Well there's a lot of guessing when you're gap pinning. There's a lot of guessing when an animal, you range an animal at 50 yards and then he takes three or four steps. There's a lot of guessing, you know, and you're just gonna hold high. Are you gonna do so with the, the Garmin, all you do is just press that button again and you get a new pin and it's perfect. And the other thing about the Garmin that's really fantastic is if you can't range, like say if you're at 20 or you're, you're at 40 yards and you range him and then he, he walks out and you're pretty sure it's like 50 or 60. You can also press a button and you get a full range of pins.

3 (1h 15m 16s):
So you get 2034, you get five LED lights, you know, instead of just one. So there, there's an advantage of that too. So if you're in a situation like we were at when we were rattling and the bucks just come running in and you know, that's 20 yards or 30 yards. Like you just pull it up and you got your pins. Yep. And you can do that. Or if you're at 60, you like, I shot the Neil guy, you can hold it and then you get a pin. That's what it looks like. It's the shit. But it's just, it just makes me nervous. They're

5 (1h 15m 42s):
Just trying to protect what they'll say is the primitive integrity of archery. Yeah.

3 (1h 15m 47s):
It's still pretty primitive. You're still using a rangefinder. Yeah. It's just a rangefinder that's incorporated the inside.

4 (1h 15m 51s):
But they, they're also trying to imagine where it's going. Like you'll see some level of herky jerkiness and, and as they bring in regulations, as they try to like get a sense of what's coming. 'cause if you wait too long on certain technologies, you develop a user group and then you develop a level of resistance. Like, like think the second drones, the second drones became a thing. It was like immediate, like 13 states. Nope.

3 (1h 16m 22s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 16m 23s):
And in the end you kinda be like, well why is it even on your mind? In the end, if you look where it's gone, in the end they made the right call. Yeah. In open country they made the right call. Yeah. Other things I think that you might look and try to like picture where it's headed and then maybe come back and correct. Like, there was a time, I remember the first time Montana came out with anything about two-way communications. It was no two-way communications in the field the first year. And people are like, oh man, if I'm hunting with my 13-year-old and my 80-year-old dad, I can't give them a radio so that they have a problem. They can get ahold of me. And they're like, oh yeah, I guess we didn't really mean that.

4 (1h 17m 3s):
And in the next year there's a modification and the next year there's a modification as they try to like gauge what's going on. But I think that as technologies come in, there's a tendency to to wanna pump the brakes to ascertain what's going on. Like look how long some states waited on, on trail cams. Yes. Right. And then like no one, when trail cams came out, no one imagined they would be cellular. Right. Or that you'd run that you'd, that you'd run 40

3 (1h 17m 33s):
All cellular. Or that every waterhole would have 50 different dudes that have trail camps, water

4 (1h 17m 36s):
Transmitting immediate information. And so then you gotta, then you develop a big user group and you develop a big resistance and it just becomes a much different conversation. So I think that in those cases where you see a sort of, you'll see a thing that doesn't entirely make too much sense. I think that's part of the, the gamble and struggle of getting it right. Another thing is like, like I thing I think it's winning out is they used to say, well you can't have dogs hunting deer Of course. And then people have been like, but I want a recovery dog. Like I don't, the dog doesn't do any good until I've already wounded the thing. And once I've wounded it, like, why would you do anything to impede me getting it back? Right. And they've kind of are settling in on a Yeah, you can't run deer with a dog and most states, but they're coming around and saying, but for recovery you can track a wounded deer with a dog.

4 (1h 18m 28s):
And so you have, there's a, there's a, you know, there's a sort of compromise gets struck. Right.

3 (1h 18m 33s):
Or even a dead deer where you can't find it. Yeah. Like heavy, heavy timber. Well, yeah, yeah,

4 (1h 18m 37s):
Yeah. That yeah. That, that's where it's put used to Some states, you know, used be, you had to have it on a leash, but Yeah. Whatever. But coming around being like, yeah, we meant you can't hunt deer with a dog. Right. We didn't mean you shouldn't be able to find a wounded or dead deer with a dog. And then they make a gradual correction.

3 (1h 18m 53s):
Well that's also the first step they do to outlaw mountain lion hunting. Right. No mountain lion hunting with dogs. And if soon as you do that, yeah.

4 (1h 18m 59s):
That's coming from a completely different, right. That's coming from a completely different agenda.

3 (1h 19m 4s):
Yes.

4 (1h 19m 5s):
That's not trying to help hunters out, that's trying to screw hunters.

3 (1h 19m 7s):
I just don't, under some of them I don't understand like lighted knocks. That to me is the dumbest one. It's like, look, lighted knocks allow you to more clearly see your impact and find the arrow so you're not littering. So instead of like an arrow just alone in the woods, you see that green light in the distance and you could find it. You know,

4 (1h 19m 26s):
That one doesn't make a ton of sense to me. I, I wonder if someone, if in in defining the legislation, there's a little bit of a, well, what else is gonna be on an arrow that's electronic? I don't know.

3 (1h 19m 39s):
Well they are doing something like that now where there's like, there's, there's talk of like Bluetooth technology. They

5 (1h 19m 44s):
Have that. Yeah. And so and so and

3 (1h 19m 47s):
Is it utilized now?

5 (1h 19m 48s):
Yeah. I mean that's been out for years.

3 (1h 19m 50s):
So probably, so you could find the arrow with an app. And

5 (1h 19m 52s):
So what they would say that if somebody's just going to shoot an animal, excuse me in the ass, just get an arrow stuck in it so

3 (1h 20m 1s):
You know

5 (1h 20m 1s):
Where it is and then they'll find it. You know, like, so is it gonna, is it gonna perpetuate shitty, unethical shots?

4 (1h 20m 7s):
Like if I can just get a piece of it, I'm good

3 (1h 20m 9s):
Stick. Right. I'll just track it. Yeah. Like a whale, you know, like you put a harpoon in a whale and then you just

5 (1h 20m 14s):
Chase it down. Yeah. Oregon was, Oregon was very late on allowing mechanical heads and lighted knocks. I mean it was just recently, that's why I was like fixed blade forever because at home I couldn't even shoot expandable. So Oregon, Idaho, they were pretty late coming to the game on the electronics. 'cause they call a a lighted knot electronic. And that was, and I still don't think Garmin sites are even legal in Oregon. There's

3 (1h 20m 40s):
Like 10 states or I think they're illegal at least. Yeah. But Utah, it's interesting that they did it this year.

5 (1h 20m 47s):
Yeah. So yeah, I know they changed. but it might be to what Steve was alluding to. It's like you try to course correct or they didn't want to get too far down the road before they tried to come back. 'cause because that user group was established. Yeah. And we'd been doing it and now they have this, you know, they fight back on

3 (1h 21m 4s):
That. Yeah. I just think all it does is allow you to make more ethical shots. That's all. I think that a range finding site does. Yeah.

5 (1h 21m 11s):
I mean. But they could say that, well, rifle hunting is more ethical than bow hunting. So why do we need to bow hunt? You know what I mean? Right.

3 (1h 21m 18s):
Well you could also outlaw traditional bow hunting then. 'cause that's just all guesswork. Yeah.

4 (1h 21m 23s):
A large part of it, KA already alluded to this. A large part of it is, is protecting a desire to protect archery seasons as, you know, you can kind of hold 'em out as low harvest, limited efficacy, high opportunity hunts. Right. And a state will run a bow season and then they'll get then the general firearm and then everybody gets down to the real serious business of killing. And you can look at the archery harvest and the archery harvest winds up in comparison being don don't wanna say negligible, but in comparison it just, it's, it's a blip in the harvest.

4 (1h 22m 5s):
And so the desire to, you know, limit bringing in crossbows certain technologies is be like, let's keep it simple, traditional low efficacy, low harvest, and then allow for greater length of seasons and greater opportunity. And if you get to and I know, it seems impossible, but if you can use technology to get it up where your harvest rates really start to spike, you're gonna have the same thing you run into in other areas where you start being like, Hey, we gotta limit the opportunity pool. Yeah. Because these guys are too good. You know, if, if you look at like a general raw number is, is just generally and archery Connor, what has a 10% chance of success.

4 (1h 22m 51s):
Yeah. Just it, it fluctuates, but like Right. Generally there's a 10% chance of success. If that became 2030, you're gonna pay for it somehow. Right. You know, you're gonna pay for it somehow.

5 (1h 23m 4s):
That's, that's what, you know, a lot of detractors of archery will say. I and I don't wanna say, I, I mentioned earlier that maybe you just eliminate bow hunting. If you want to be, you know, more efficient with killing, just make it rifle. I I believe archery is just as deadly and just as ethical as rifle hunting. I, I I believe that that's the way to go. I

3 (1h 23m 25s):
Don. Well it certainly is for you.

5 (1h 23m 26s):
I don don't, I don't want to. But the success rate is lower to Steve's point. And it's what, what the guys back home have said, the detractors of bow hunting is that the, the in, this could just be old boy talk. The bow hunters are killing all the big bulls because

4 (1h 23m 43s):
I haven't heard that one.

5 (1h 23m 44s):
But they're they're rutting. Yeah. We can call 'em in. Right. We're getting prime rut time. Right. And so, and it's, you kind of get lulled into this trap, especially with social media that you're thinking, God is everybody killing a fucking giant bull. But now, because that's what you see

3 (1h 23m 58s):
These long range shooters, man, these

5 (1h 24m 0s):
With the rifle you mean? Yeah,

3 (1h 24m 2s):
Yeah, yeah. These long range rifle guys are taking 700, 800 yard shots. Know what's, and they're really good at it like that. You

5 (1h 24m 8s):
Know what? It's crazy. I, I don't even rifle hunt I mean I haven't rifle hunted since 89. You're

4 (1h 24m 14s):
Missing out.

5 (1h 24m 15s):
But I took, I took Ka Bradley I know we talked about it before to get her first buck in Oregon. And so my buddy Kevin had this sig gun she was gonna shoot and it was all good. But this, this other guy, he reminded me of God, remember Mark Wahlberg in that movie where he was like, this recluse lived up in the mounds.

4 (1h 24m 37s):
Not Boogie Knight.

5 (1h 24m 38s):
No, not Boogie Knights. No, no.

4 (1h 24m 40s):
He didn't have Oh yeah. Damnit, go

5 (1h 24m 43s):
On. Good movie. He, so they wanted there, somebody was gonna assassinate the president. They tried to get him because he was this ballistic expert. They wanted to get him to tell him where they'd kill him from. Anyway, they Yeah. Right here Shooter. So anyway, this guy down there where we took Kat reminded me of Mark, or no, not Mark, this old guy he went to talk to that knew the history of, anyway, he had these guns set up in this, in this steel out there at 990 yards. and I can, I can shoot, but I never shoot, I haven't done it in years. and I was just like, I go, how far is that far? One, he's like nine 90. And I'm like, what do you got here? That'll shoot. And so he had this fucking sweet setup. Right?

5 (1h 25m 24s):
Got up, set up, got there first shot out of this gun, had the wind gauge up there. And I'm like, okay, the wind's going here, I'm gonna hold on the left side of the steel boom. 990 yards first shot. Smacked it. And I'm like, I fucking never shoot.

3 (1h 25m 42s):
Right.

5 (1h 25m 42s):
Right. I can hit this, this steel this big at 990 yards. Yeah. So to your, to your point about this long range thing that's changing the game too. Oh yeah. People want to talk about archery evolving and, and getting too far ahead of ourselves. God dang these long range rifle guys,

4 (1h 25m 59s):
My kids can shoot steel at distances that we didn't know you that when I was a kid. You didn't know you could shoot

5 (1h 26m 5s):
300 yards was a long way when I was

4 (1h 26m 8s):
The farthest shot you could take was across that cornfield.

5 (1h 26m 11s):
Yeah. 300 yards.

4 (1h 26m 12s):
If the corn was down,

5 (1h 26m 13s):
You were like a great shooter. If you could hit anything at 300. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 26m 17s):
Oh that was the Yeah.

3 (1h 26m 19s):
Well now everybody has shooting sticks and the, you know, bipods and all sorts of different things that they used to set up to make them more stable. What

5 (1h 26m 26s):
We had or prone. Oh yeah. I mean those, those, yeah. A bipod wasn't even a thing when I started rifle hunting. It is like you had a sling, you could put your arm in there a little bit. Yeah. And that might help a little bit.

3 (1h 26m 38s):
But you're offhand

5 (1h 26m 39s):
Offhand still. Yeah. So I mean wouldn't we kill blacktail? It's like you, if you get, you don't wanna be past a hundred. You

3 (1h 26m 47s):
Imagine if they, they said with rifle hunting. No more prone shots

4 (1h 26m 53s):
Too easy. Well, no, I don't think they would, they would approach it a different way. They wouldn't approach it that way.

3 (1h 26m 58s):
Well they would start with Bipods, right? No. If someone wanted

4 (1h 27m 0s):
To No, they would, it would probably co see. I hesitate to say anything. So I don't want to give anyone, anyone I anyone ideas. But if you were gonna try to like, I can't even think if you were gonna try to regulate, well I, I'll put it to you this way. So we have muzzle loader seasons. Okay. A lot of states have muzzle loader seasons and it just very generally a state's big game hunt would go archery and then general firearm. And then you go into late season muzzle loader and states will regulate muzzle loaders down to whether you have what powder. Okay. So loose powder, pellet or pellets.

4 (1h 27m 41s):
They'll regulate it down to open sites or no open site. They'll regulate it down to whether you have a projectile That's true to bore or en case in a, in a little case in called a saot. What other kind of stuff do they throw at you? I know, meaning they really like things. Pick your gear.

5 (1h 28m 2s):
They're like, in some cases they're like rifles

4 (1h 28m 4s):
Now ignitions, they, they, they'll in some cases regulate ignition systems.

3 (1h 28m 7s):
In some cases they break it down to completely primitive muzzle. That's

4 (1h 28m 10s):
What I'm saying. So like, there's nothing like whole deal. So it, they do have the power and the, not the power. That's not the right word for it. They do have the ability to come in and really nitpick your gear. Right. Write down to weird stuff that you'd have to, that you could have people not even know what the hell you're talking about when you say true to bore projectile. But you just, that hasn't come into, that hasn't come into general firearm. And in fact, I can't really think of anything out there besides, you can't use anything that projects light

3 (1h 28m 49s):
Like a laser. Laser.

5 (1h 28m 50s):
Yeah. Yeah,

4 (1h 28m 51s):
Yeah. So like projecting, you see regulations around projecting light and I think there's some regulations about the scope. Can't have electronics in it, meaning lighted radicals. I think in some states you can't have lighted radicals. But so far you haven't seen that real, you haven't seen a real nitpicking of long range rifle equipment. don don't even know where you'd start man. I don't know. Well did, they would regulate the, the magnification that they would somehow regulate. Imagine they laser range finders.

3 (1h 29m 18s):
Imagine they regulate distance.

4 (1h 29m 20s):
Just you can't shoot over blank distance. Yeah. don don't know. It'd be, it'd be a real puzzle if someone was tasked with figuring out how to reign in. I would pay a lot of attention to that. 'cause I gu whatever they come up with, the shit I use. Well

5 (1h 29m 34s):
In that case with shooting the nine 90, it reminded me of run you do all the calculations on your phone. Yeah. I mean it's, and then you set the scope to whatever this says. Right. You know, the scope has not just magnification, but also like you're changing the zero of it. So, but you're doing it based on the distance, based on the load, based on everything else. The wind goes into the phone. Yeah. The wind was not, not the greatest because you could check the wind at the gun, but when you're a thousand yards. So that's why you needed that flag out there. But to, to set the scope on to hold Right on. That's all done on the phone on a, on an app or something. So crazy.

4 (1h 30m 12s):
Let's, let's go back to top about bow hunters killing all the big stuff.

3 (1h 30m 16s):
Yeah.

5 (1h 30m 16s):
I know It's those

4 (1h 30m 17s):
Bastards. Yeah. I mean I honestly haven't heard, I've heard everything. I haven't heard that. So that's yeah, I

3 (1h 30m 23s):
Get it. The rut.

5 (1h 30m 24s):
And, but again, it's, you know, social media, it makes it seem like for anybody that people are, everyone's successful, everyone's killing bulls and it's just not the case. It's just not Success rate is still 10% on, on bulls with a, well not even just bulls elk with a bow. Well

3 (1h 30m 43s):
Social media has just fucked up our perceptions of everything.

5 (1h 30m 46s):
You know, I was

3 (1h 30m 47s):
Of people's bodies, of people's faces, filters.

4 (1h 30m 50s):
But in ever God it does seem like everybody's getting a big mega of bull. Don't Yeah,

3 (1h 30m 54s):
It does. Well there's so many people with Instagram accounts. Yeah. And everybody can't wait to post those photos. Yeah.

5 (1h 30m 60s):
It's, you know, I was, when I asked what year that was, I, I've seen some graphs on, on hunting. Oh

4 (1h 31m 6s):
That, sorry. Yeah.

5 (1h 31m 7s):
That Buck and I see some graphs on hunting and I. You know, we all get blamed for a lot of ills that probably we don't deserve of in regard to hunting. But I saw this graph talking about the hunters, you know, 50 years ago there's this many hunters and right around 2015 I mean it was plummeting the number of the, on the graph I saw the number of hunters was plum just going straight down. And then I was trying to like, is that when you started coming in and we talk about hunting here and then now it's, you know, maybe there's a little bit of an up I know there's an uptick from where it was going. But I was thinking it,

4 (1h 31m 47s):
I think it's a downtick now. Right now it's a downtick

5 (1h 31m 49s):
Now after the covid. Yeah, now it's going back down. It's downtick. But if you look at the graph that I saw before you started talking about hunting, who knows where the hell we'd be. If you follow that line down to where it was going. There'd be no hunters from 2015 to 2024. It's like it was don don't, I don't know where this graph was, but it's don don't know.

3 (1h 32m 13s):
Well it just makes sense. I mean, think about the amount of millions of people that have been exposed to talking about hunting now. Never exposed.

5 (1h 32m 22s):
Yeah. So it's not just Oh yeah. Hunting's in a more healthy spot because we do need hunters to, to champion our cause. Right. But it's not just that. Oh, that's good. But imagine without that where we'd be,

4 (1h 32m 36s):
I once saw a graph, it was a, not a graph, it was a, whatever the hell, A diagram or something. and it showed in Michigan average age of fur trappers, people that held a fur harvester license. The average age every year of someone holding a fur harvester license actually went up one year. Mm. No one knew. It's like these same people and they're just, you know,

3 (1h 33m 3s):
I mean how many new people are getting into trapping that have never trapped

4 (1h 33m 8s):
Some

3 (1h 33m 9s):
God it's gotta be small.

4 (1h 33m 10s):
Not like it is when fur prices shoot up. Right. Yeah.

3 (1h 33m 14s):
Well that's different, right? Yeah.

4 (1h 33m 15s):
But it one things that you told me, it's super small man. No, it's super, super small. And then anytime Yeah, fur prices skyrocket, then it brings people in. If fur prices are low, it's just no

3 (1h 33m 25s):
One. One of the things you told me once that blew me away was at one point in time the richest man in the country was a beaver trapper.

4 (1h 33m 30s):
Yeah. Well, yeah. Beaver, beaver, beaver tradesman man. John Jacob. I asked her. Yeah.

3 (1h 33m 34s):
That's crazy. Yeah. That is I mean. That was the most precious commodity was beavers.

5 (1h 33m 40s):
Yeah. I mean you talked about Colorado. Man, that's a, it's a crazy time right now. 'cause there they are, there is that measure out there. I, I don't, I think it's ballot measure, but it is, but it's Yeah. Where they're trying to, they're calling, they wanna label lion hunting as trophy hunting and luck. We, there's a, there's a guy there who's very passionate. He's been doing a lot of good work. His name's Dan Gates with Colorado for Responsible Wildlife Management.

4 (1h 34m 7s):
For

3 (1h 34m 7s):
People listening don't know we're talking, we should say Mountain lion.

5 (1h 34m 9s):
Mountain Lion. Yeah. Right.

4 (1h 34m 10s):
Well, all good.

5 (1h 34m 11s):
They say mountain lion bobcat and then links, which

4 (1h 34m 14s):
They throw in links, which you can't hunt for anyways. Yeah. It's not even to create this idea that, yeah,

5 (1h 34m 18s):
It's not even legal, but they love putting this trophy hunting moniker out there because it's really easy to hate trophy hunting. Right. Which isn't even legal. You can't even, they make it, I read this article from Colorado Sun or something like that, where it's like they wanna eliminate people who kill mountain lions and just go cut their head off and just take the tr It's like,

3 (1h 34m 37s):
Who fucking does that? Nobody

5 (1h 34m 38s):
Does that, but nobody does that. People who don't know think, oh my God, that's despicable. Let's out all

3 (1h 34m 44s):
This, serve them some mountain lions. Well,

4 (1h 34m 45s):
What the, yeah, what the, what the aim here is that is the attempt to create a legal term. The, the, the attempt to create trophy hunting as a legal term. When you have a ballot measure, both sides argue about language. Like when, when voters going, what are they gonna read? Obviously you could write any ballot and if you could just write the ballot initiative how you wanted to, you'd win every time. But people gotta debate the wording.

5 (1h 35m 17s):
That's what they did with the wolf thing. Yeah. Did you, did you read the Wolf thing?

4 (1h 35m 20s):
I never actually read it.

5 (1h 35m 21s):
I, I couldn't even, I couldn't even tell what was for wolves and what wasn't. Oh yeah. It

4 (1h 35m 26s):
Was like,

5 (1h 35m 26s):
What the don don't even know which one I'm against.

4 (1h 35m 28s):
It was like forcing. It was, it was, should the state, does the state need to implement a reintroduction or discovery effort or something like that? Yeah. And this is this, they're trying to, the the debate comes around to, can you say trophy hunting? Yeah. In a ballot measure. Because if they can, if you can set the

5 (1h 35m 51s):
Precedent,

4 (1h 35m 52s):
If you can use that what a great tool. 'cause people are gonna say, oh, don don't agree with that. You know, I don't agree with that kind of hunting. Right. Which would have widespread implications because as demonstrated here with this deer here, there's a lot of parts of it that I don't throw away. and I keep sitting around. Yeah. So is this a trophy or is it an emblem? Or what the hell is it? Right. But if I kept it, does that mean that I'm now captured under your definition? Right.

3 (1h 36m 25s):
Right. Yeah. What is trophy hunting? Yeah. Yeah. And then the bringing in the wolves thing is pretty wild because there's no precedent. They really don't understand like, oh,

4 (1h 36m 35s):
There's precedent. I mean,

3 (1h 36m 36s):
Well with, obviously with Montana,

4 (1h 36m 38s):
With Yellowstone, Idaho, Frank Church Yellowstone.

3 (1h 36m 40s):
But long term I mean we've only from since the 1990s. Yeah. Like, there's a reason why they eradicated wolves. It's, I don't agree with it. But when you have ranchers and you have all these people that they're living is based entirely on the stock that they have, and whether or not they make money enough to keep their farm running or not, is depending upon how many animals they bring to market. And then you have wolves and you just bring in wolves.

5 (1h 37m 8s):
Yeah. Well, so there's a, if, if, if I got the tinfoil hat on, they want to eliminate hunting. I mean they, they wanna eliminate hunting and ranching. So they don't care about ranchers losing their animals. They would love people just to be a hundred percent consumers relying on the government so they can control 'em. They say, here's your food, here's what you're getting. You're getting it from us. You're not out there hunting it for yourself. They hate hunters. If I was thinking about, you know, the governor of Colorado, which is polis, his husband is anti-hunting.

4 (1h 37m 41s):
Yeah. It's, he's an animal rights activist.

5 (1h 37m 43s):
That's where all this is coming from. Yeah. So, but if you look at the bigger picture, hunters, they cannot stand, hunters are usually capable, confident, you know, they have a skillset you can't control people like that. They want peop, government wants people they can control that'll be afraid when they're supposed to be afraid. Wear this mask when we tell you, get this shot when we tell you, here's you, you get your food from the store here. Here it is. And hunters, I

3 (1h 38m 14s):
Think there's certainly an element of

5 (1h 38m 15s):
That. Hunters are the opposite of that. Yeah.

3 (1h 38m 17s):
I think there's certainly an element of that, but I think it really all boils down to people that love animals.

4 (1h 38m 21s):
They don't want animals. Yeah. I think I definitely detect that there's a complete disinterest in what hunters think about it. And they think that, that for someone to come in and argue by doing this wildlife measure, you're impacting, or like you would like this animal on the landscape for viewing pleasure. I like certain animals on the landscape for hunting consumption, eating whatever. And there's a conflict here where by doing this, you're gonna lower my, by increasing your likelihood of having, of eating viewer pleasure, you're having a, a potentially really negative impact on my use of natural resources.

4 (1h 39m 8s):
I think that they would look at you as though you don't have a, that you're ridiculous or evil, or don't have a point in saying that you want to control, you wanna limit predation on a resource you rely on. And they, they, they don't accept that as a reality. It's, it, I I I haven't encountered a lot of like, really, really forceful wolf advocates that are serious hunters. There is a, there's a trend there. You know, the thing that that that bothered me about the bothered me most about the Colorado reintroduction is that while the ballot measure was going forward, wolf showed up on their own.

4 (1h 39m 53s):
I would've imagined, even if I was on and I, and I'm not anti wolf, but when they showed up on their own, I don't even know if it's legally possible, I would've halted that whole thing. Because the social friction is so much less if they walk in on their own. Yeah. Diane Boyd, who is the Montana Wolf specialist for many years, she even came to believe in hindsight that the, the Idaho Montana reintroductions ultimately would've been unn, ultimately were unnecessary. And that you would've gradually achieved the same thing with wolves walking in on their own and had a very different societal perception of what was going on.

4 (1h 40m 36s):
People would look at it as a natural, like a natural dispersal. A natural occurrence, and not a government action. Right.

5 (1h 40m 44s):
Yeah. But I think they wanted that pomp and circumstance like Polis was there, I think when they released the Wol in

3 (1h 40m 50s):
Colorado. Oh yeah. With a big stupid smile on his face.

5 (1h 40m 52s):
Yeah. They, they want everybody

3 (1h 40m 53s):
Else. All the biologists all had this like, what are we doing? Yeah. And he was like,

5 (1h 40m 57s):
Yay. Yeah. They wanted nature. Right. They wanted that, you know, and if they knew the truth of how nature balances itself, it doesn't really balance it over, you know, predators kill way too many prey animals. 'cause there is no tag limits. They're not, like, for example, they talk about trophy hunting lions to, or mountain lions to hunt in Colorado, you have to take, it's very regulated. You take this test, so you learn how to identify a, a tom and a female. You learn how to age a little bit, you know, based on the coloring. You learn, you know, what size a track. So there's, you have to go through this before you hunt. And

4 (1h 41m 32s):
The whole quota system, the

5 (1h 41m 33s):
Quota, like, yeah. So the quota where I was in the unit I was hunting was 34 lions every night after five, you call in to see what the, where we're at. When I got there, it was at 31. I was there for six days. It was up to, it was 34 was the limit. It was up to 33. So one more lion could get killed, and then it's done. So it's not like,

3 (1h 41m 55s):
What happens if, like, you kill the same, you're in the woods no signal. Yeah. And someone else kills two. Yeah. And so it hits 36. It

5 (1h 42m 1s):
It could, that's why you check in.

4 (1h 42m 2s):
There's a 24, there's a window after

5 (1h 42m 4s):
Five. Yeah. So I think, I think,

4 (1h 42m 6s):
And it usually click in like a 24 hour clock. Or maybe they might have been immediate. I don't know.

5 (1h 42m 10s):
It was, they have, you have 48 hours. Okay. Yeah. To turn it in there. And, but anyway, point is, you're not over harvesting. You know, the, the estimate goes up to as high as 7,000 mountain lions in Colorado, probably, maybe maybe 5,000. But in the whole state, hunters are allowed to kill 450. And they've been doing this. And it's not like they're out there killing mountain lions, cutting their heads off. No regard for the numbers, wiping them out. It's so regulated. You know, You don't have to call and, and report your deer and elk. But lions are like a whole nother level as far as

4 (1h 42m 47s):
Control. Yeah. And think about that quota system. If you have a horrific snowstorm that pushes all kinds of deer and elk outta high country, and like everybody and his brother, like a perfectly timed snowstorm. And everybody, his brother is just piling up deer and elk. They don't go Uhoh, shut it down.

5 (1h 43m 8s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 43m 9s):
They sit back and they'll go like, wow. Yeah.

5 (1h 43m 12s):
Mother load.

4 (1h 43m 13s):
What a harvest. Yeah. Yeah. But with lions, they would, they would come in and go, oh, done. Yeah.

3 (1h 43m 18s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 43m 18s):
But they got a ca it's a per, it's a perpetual motion machine where they've had these, they've had a really healthy, stable population. Minimum harvest. Yeah. That just goes on.

5 (1h 43m 30s):
It's under 10% harvest. This

3 (1h 43m 31s):
Is the thing that we should talk about. When, when it comes to these reintroduction to predators, which I listen, I, I I fucking love wolves. I mean, if you look out here, I have all these photos of wolves. It's long distance photos of wolves. I'm happy that they exist. I think they're fucking amazing. I got,

5 (1h 43m 46s):
I got big one. They're probably big favorite. I got big one on my wall in my living room.

3 (1h 43m 49s):
They're probably my favorite. Animals are badass. I just think they're the fucking coolest animal of all time. I really do. I just look in their eyes, photos of 'em. If I come across photos on my Instagram, I'm always like, holy shit. Look at that thing. They're majestic. But their numbers have to be managed. And as uncomfortable as it sounds for people, wildlife, biologists, they have an understanding of the carrying capacity and the resources of the land. They understand how many hunters there are. They understand how many, that's how tags are allocated. Yeah. It's not a guessing game. Yeah. It's the way people need to understand this. It's like they've, they've done this for a long time. These people have, you know, painstakingly research these numbers.

3 (1h 44m 30s):
They know exactly what they're doing. But when it comes to this game of reintroduction of animals, the first step is they say there's a carrying capacity for the amount of wolves. This is the number. When it gets to that, we will agree to open up a season on wolf hunting. But every time that happens, there's lawsuits and there's lawsuits to try to stop that hunt. And then the wolves get larger and larger. Yeah. And then you have larger and larger populations. I was looking at a graph the other day where they showed reintroduction of wolves to the Yellowstone, the amount of elk that existed, and now the amount of wolves versus the amount of elk. And it's pretty shocking. It's a giant drop. And they're so good at hunting.

3 (1h 45m 10s):
They're, they're fucking amazing. But hunting wolves is insanely difficult. It's really hard to do. They're really fucking smart. They're really aware. They're senses are light years beyond what we could even physically imagine an animal to be capable of doing in our minds. Like we, we know that deer could, I remember I was watching an episode of your, your show where bear winded, you guys like fucking 500 yards or

4 (1h 45m 37s):
Something.

3 (1h 45m 38s):
Yeah. Like, it's incredible. They, their noses are fucking amazing. Their senses are amazing. I don't think we really, it's almost like looking at the size of the universe. Like, you know, it's 13 point whatever, a billion light years across. You don't fucking That's Yeah. I know that's just going in your head. You don the ma the, the kind of power that the senses of a wolf have. Mm. don don't think we could even really fathom it. So our, our thought is people are just gonna go in there and wipe out the wolves like they did before. That's just ignorance. The way they wiped out before.

4 (1h 46m 10s):
Well, at this point, well, you go and say that. It's just that that's not the reality. Right. Because after the, after the delisting and the nor in the Northern Rockies after the delisting, that didn't happen. Right. Right.

3 (1h 46m 24s):
Did they ever reach their, their quotas?

4 (1h 46m 26s):
Yeah, they reach quotas. They, every night, not every night. Many nights, I'll check and y'all get notifications like the, I got a notification, whatever the hell, three 13, whatever it was, unit had hit its quota, region five, it hit its quota. I'm talking about in Montana, whatever region hit its quota at this point, it's at this point we've hit at it is a stable, there is a stable population of wolves across a big chunk of range that are managed as a renewable natural resources that, that were managed as a big game species. There is no problem. It still gets litigated all the time. But the whole idea that they're gonna be pushed back on the, onto the ESA, on the endangered speechless, the state doesn't want that.

4 (1h 47m 9s):
They'd be the worst thing that could happen to the state. Right. They're not gonna shoot 'em into oblivion. Right. It's like we have wolves on the landscape. And you could have the extremes of people that wanna live in a world where there aren't any that's not realistic. Like you lost that fight. You have extremes where people wanna live in a world where there's as many as possible and there's no regulation on 'em, which isn't extreme. 'cause we could live in that landscape. But right now we're living in a landscape where there are wolves on the ground. There's a healthy population, there's hunting for them. There's a, a a, a equilibrium emerging and it's very livable. But in Colorado, it's like you got hunters that are, if hunters saw that there was a pathway to finding the extent of it, they would probably feel a lot better.

4 (1h 47m 54s):
But right now they're like, we're gonna lose 50% of elk. We're gonna lose 75% of elk. This is gonna get litigated. It could be a hundred years from now. We could have 90 years of full recovery objective. There's still no regulated harvest on wolves. And they're apprehensive, rightfully

3 (1h 48m 13s):
So. And it's also for high population areas, which is the ones that vote the most. I mean that, that's where the, the the people are that are voting, these are generally urban areas that don't have any understanding of what they're even voting on.

4 (1h 48m 23s):
Yeah. They're hoping to see

3 (1h 48m 24s):
One, like exactly what's going on in, in BC when they delisted, when they, they made it illegal to hunt grizzly bears. And the people that live up in bc like my friend Mike, who lives in northern BC's, like Jesus Christ, like First of all this is a way that a lot of people make a living is by having these bear hunts. This is a, a part of their, their lifestyle, their their guides. They guide people to hunt grizzlies. And it's important to maintain their population. 'cause if you don't, nothing is, and these people in these urban areas, they think of it as trophy hunting, but at least people know that you eat bear. Nobody's eaten wolves. So that is like one of the most difficult to defend when you say, I'm gonna go wolf hunting.

3 (1h 49m 6s):
Like, what a piece of shit you are. Yeah. You're gonna hunt wolves. The fuck is wrong with you.

5 (1h 49m 11s):
Here's, here's a, you were mention, you mentioned Steve, that it's, it's kind of at a stable level with the wolves now, you know, you call and check in and and wolves were introduced. They're hunt, they're still being hunted. So that works in Montana and Idaho, I think in, in

4 (1h 49m 25s):
Wyoming, Idaho, Montana. Right.

5 (1h 49m 28s):
So I sent this to you. I was just looking this up. And

4 (1h 49m 30s):
Alaska Of course

5 (1h 49m 31s):
Right in Idaho, Lolo region in 95, 12 wolves were introduced in 2005, 512 wolves were present. In 2011, 800 wolves were present. So the elk from 95, there's 16,000 elk in this region. In 2016, there was a thousand elk. So it went from 16,000 to a thousand. So that's what wolves can do.

3 (1h 49m 57s):
That's insane. So

5 (1h 49m 58s):
When you say, and that's, they can hunt 'em in Idaho, in Colorado, when there is no wolf hunting. And now these wolves are back and

4 (1h 50m 7s):
There and there won't be,

5 (1h 50m 9s):
Not not under this their gov governor now, but, and that's what I say. It's like once these prey animals get down, then they can say, well we don't need hunters. There's nothing, nothing to hunt. Nothing.

3 (1h 50m 22s):
Well, that's the objection. That is the thing. California, that's a regulated objective in California. Right. It's a state stated

5 (1h 50m 27s):
Objective. So, and I've heard they want to turn Colorado into a, almost like a viewing state. Like, you know how they do the safaris over in Africa where there's no hunting. You're just out taking pictures. That's what they want Colorado to be. So they want low numbers of elk and deer. So there is no hunting. So then they can say, well, we don't really need hunters. And by the way, do you guys need guns? Now I don don't know if you need guns. 'cause you said you needed 'em for hunting. So that's a big portion of, some people say, yeah, we want our everyday carry for protection. A lot of people say, we want to hunt with no hunting. You don't need guns. So there's this big diabolical plan you could say, is this what's happening? But all I know is that where there's wolves, there's way less elk.

3 (1h 51m 7s):
That's, it's openly stated on this wolf conservationist website that that's their ultimate goal. Their ultimate goal is to remove firearms. 'cause you won't need them if You don't need them for hunting. Right.

4 (1h 51m 16s):
You wind up with the, the this attitude about it that a a lot of people that are just really, and again, I, I like, and I'm stuttering here because I'm not an anti wolf person. Right. I'm a pro. I'm like pro hitting a recovery objective and then having a managed resource. But you'll find that a lot of wolf advocates will, will really try to, in one breath, tell you that it actually, they don't actually do that. They don't actually cause the decline of elk numbers. Like when, when, when elk numbers collapsed in the coming with the coming of the wolf in the Northern Rockies.

4 (1h 52m 1s):
There's other factors that could have explained that. Right. They don't actually do that. But at the same time they'll say, oh, but they would be a great tool for controlling wildlife diseases, which populate among overpopulated ungulates. So you wound up getting this crosstalk on one hand. Oh, they're not that. It's, it's not that catastrophic for big game herds, but it really lowers big game herds and helps the disease transmission. You know, and it's part of that, that's kind of stuff really frustrates people. Yeah. You know, you, like, you, you're, you're getting all this, you know, that they, they had like shit rainbows, you know? Right. and it it, like, it pisses people off.

3 (1h 52m 43s):
Well it's also like we were saying, it's, it's almost indefensible to someone who's an anti hunter. Like you could say, I hunt for food. And people go, well, I I don't agree with you, but I get it. Yeah. Nobody gets wolf hunting. You know, like, do you want to go hunt a wolf? don don't wanna hunt a wolf. I don't wanna shoot a wolf. I I love them. I think they're amazing. But I get,

4 (1h 53m 4s):
You could say, I take the thing of I harvested an animal and took the thing of highest relevance and value to me on a deer. I didn't keep the hide. I didn't retain the hide, but I kept the meat on a wolf. I didn't keep the meat, but I retained the hide. I took the thing of highest value to me. Wasn't

3 (1h 53m 24s):
There like some trappers, you were telling me that like wolf meat was their favorite meat.

4 (1h 53m 28s):
Oh, there's a Arctic Explorer Olmer Stinson. And he would, in his, he has a, he had a book My Life with the Eskimo and he made first contact with a lot of Eskimo Inuit hunters in the Canadian high Arctic. And he always claimed that was his favorite game. Eat Well

3 (1h 53m 46s):
Why? If people eat, if they eat mountain lion and mountain lion. You told me it's delicious. Yeah. Why don't they eat wolfs?

4 (1h 53m 52s):
It's weird, man. I've never I mean I've never gotten a wolf.

3 (1h 53m 54s):
You ate a coyote once. Yeah.

4 (1h 53m 56s):
I've never gotten a wolf and I've never eaten a wolf. But I know people that have eaten it, but it's not a, you know, eating like lion hunters eating mountain lions is very common. I don't believe that. I, I believe there's some people that eat some wolf meat because I've heard of it and seen it. don don't think it's widely practiced. Have

3 (1h 54m 16s):
You ever heard it? Do you ever talk to someone who's eating wolf?

4 (1h 54m 19s):
Yeah. Who I do know a couple guys that have eaten wolf. my friend Buck Bowden's eating wolf.

3 (1h 54m 28s):
That's the guy that makes the bowls.

4 (1h 54m 29s):
Yep. He had eaten it. And what he say, I think, didn't Randy Newberg eat a wolf?

3 (1h 54m 37s):
He might've,

4 (1h 54m 37s):
Yeah. I think he ate a wolf. What

3 (1h 54m 38s):
Did Buck Bowden say? Tastes like?

4 (1h 54m 42s):
There's a story about Buck Bowden where someone's talking to him and he's cleaning a wolverine skull. Okay. When he is trapping wolverines, he's cleaning a Wolverine skull with a knife at a counter. And someone's talking to him and as he's talking to him, he's eating the hunks of meat that he scrapes off the skull with this knife. So, but I don't remember what he told me about it. He told me the, I remember him telling me the one thing he can't get, that he's tried every which way is brown bears eating salmon.

3 (1h 55m 8s):
Just always, I

4 (1h 55m 9s):
Remember him telling me that was the one food that he had a hard time with.

3 (1h 55m 13s):
Well, you were telling that story about how you borrowed your friend smoker.

4 (1h 55m 16s):
Yeah. Coastal black bears.

3 (1h 55m 18s):
Yeah. And you were like, man, you gotta clean your smoker. It smells like fish. Yeah. He's like, I've never cooked fish on that smoker.

4 (1h 55m 24s):
Yeah. You know, I hadn't used that for that. And I was like, oh, that's my bear. My bear ham did that too.

3 (1h 55m 30s):
How did the bear taste?

4 (1h 55m 31s):
Oh, don, don't mind it. You know, it's funny. You, you know, dirt. Right. Dirt on. Really? Like, and that you like that that bear it tastes like smoked salmon because he's like, well I like smoked salmon. Right. and I like meat and this is the full pack.

3 (1h 55m 44s):
Yeah. It's like a that's fusion. No,

4 (1h 55m 46s):
We ate, but I'll just eat stuff. You know? I don't care. I'll just, if I have it, I'll eat it.

3 (1h 55m 50s):
Well if you do it right, like one of the things that we learned when we were hunting with Jesse last year, like diver ducks, which people normally say they taste like shit because they eat the, the stuff on the bottom of the, the lakes. And now

4 (1h 56m 2s):
When he cooks

3 (1h 56m 3s):
Jesse Griffiths can cook some diver duck, that makes it like literally one of my favorite foods I've ever eaten in my life.

4 (1h 56m 9s):
Yeah. You can figure anything out. Yeah. You can figure anything out. Just depends how much work you wanna put into it. Right.

3 (1h 56m 14s):
And you know, and obviously it doesn't hurt being an amazing chef, you know, but he's, you know, he's got it down to a fucking science. Those dive ducks are sensational. But if you talk to the average duck hunter, they're like, Ugh.

4 (1h 56m 26s):
If I got a wolf, I would definitely wanna have a couple chews off it. But I mean I could tell you that you'd never separate me from the hide off that thing. But I would, you know, I would, I would go into it and be like, I'm gonna try it just 'cause I wanna see what it's all about. Yeah. You know? but it wouldn't be my primary objective. Yeah. In getting one. Some,

5 (1h 56m 44s):
Some of those animals just need to be killed. That's all. They're like coyotes, wolves. Yeah. They just need to be killed. You, you have to. And whether you eat 'em or not, I don't know. Their numbers need to be managed.

3 (1h 56m 55s):
The wildest thing about coyotes is it doesn't work as the opposite effect.

4 (1h 56m 59s):
Well

3 (1h 57m 2s):
Depending on how good you are at it.

4 (1h 57m 4s):
There done in a very, they spread out, done in a very surgical fashion at the right time, the right place with the right level of intensity. They have found that that is effective.

3 (1h 57m 17s):
We gotta bring in a fucking special ops unit.

4 (1h 57m 19s):
No. Like you can, there's man, if you have imperiled populations of pronghorn or imperiled populations of mule deer and you go in deer like during calving season in the right areas at the right time, you can move the needle on recruitment.

3 (1h 57m 37s):
Mm.

4 (1h 57m 39s):
Does you now, and then if you have a ranch and you now and then see a coyote and get it, are you doing like effective predator control? Probably not. That does not mean that you cannot done in a timely fashion, like I said, surgically a timely fashion with the right approach at the right time. You can absolutely move the needle on wildlife recruitment. The, you see it, you see it in Alaska, they see it in Arizona. You see it all over the

3 (1h 58m 5s):
Place. But the issue is statewide or locally. That might be the case, but they will then spread out. Yeah. But and they will now they're in every state. They're in every city in the country because of that. Because people hunted

4 (1h 58m 17s):
Them. So I, I put this to someone the other day. I got, you know how you don't, like, you don't do media.

3 (1h 58m 22s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 58m 22s):
You don't like doing interviews. Yeah. I now and then get like suckered into doing an interview and I did an interview about a contentious issue. It was about states banning. I knew the minute the journalist called me and he is talking about banning wildlife killing contests. and I said, can we please say hunting contests at least do we have to say wildlife killing contests? And I'm like, you know, my buddy Doug has a dough derby where they're in an area where they're trying to lower deer numbers for issues of disease transmission habitat improvement. And he has a little derby where you win some prizes 'cause they're trying, the state is, is explicitly trying to encourage dough harvest.

4 (1h 59m 10s):
Is he having a wildlife killing contest or is he having a derby as a management tool? Right. Hmm. Anyways, I do this interview and shouldn't have done it. 'cause the quote they pulled from me was not the right quote. I lo now that I'm so mad about that guy, I can't remember what point I was driving at.

5 (1h 59m 28s):
You were gonna say that they tried to lump it in as a killing contest and Oh, the outlaw, the contests of killing animals,

4 (1h 59m 37s):
Basically. Yeah. But I had some like broader ass point. I can't remember now what it was. Apologies got so riled up about talking to that guy. Yeah.

5 (1h 59m 45s):
Yeah. It's a, I do, I do want to revisit one thing because I said I, for me, anytime I see coyote, if I got a license and it's illegal, I kill it. Every, I killed one this year. I, I, I'm always trying to, my personal thing is I kill so many prey animals a year, whatever that number is, I'm gonna try to kill a number of predators. Also. I feel like that's doing my part to whatever, to balance it. To balance it. But I didn't wanna say one thing about the mountain lion hunting as I say that I will kill just a coyote. Just because I think to kill, I didn't kill a lion in Colorado because one of the biggest benefits to using dogs is identifying if that's the animal you want to kill.

5 (2h 0m 25s):
It's not what, what happens now, like in Oregon where they outlawed running lions with dogs is if you kill one, it's just one you saw. And you don't know. You don't know what it is. You don't know how old it is. You don't know male female because you don't have time. Right. And, but that's the only way you can hunt 'em. So now they have, the season is open all year. It never closes in Oregon, there is no dog. So lion numbers are going way up. Deer numbers going way down. That's kind of what happens. Where, where dogs are allowed or baiting for bears allowed, or even hunting black bear with dogs is allowed. You're killing the animal that should be killed. The older male generally. And you're identifying it, you're taking out the right one.

5 (2h 1m 7s):
Without those measures in place, those hunting a dog is a tool. Without those measures in place, it's, it's not nearly as controlled. And it's not like people are just going out there just gonna kill any lion up the tree. Just like I I didn't kill one. 'cause I didn't see an old male lion

4 (2h 1m 23s):
Hounds men are the one that originally pushed for lion regulations. Yeah. That they, they were pushing for lion regulations when no one was paying any attention to lion lion conservationist. Okay. I I finally remember my point. Okay. Am I allowed to go back in time? Yeah, I agree. Yeah. He, we were having this conversation where people say that that coyote hunting actually increases coyote numbers and I see what you're talking about? Because it disrupts pack dynamics and can lead to animals shooting off a new directions and starting packs and also

3 (2h 1m 53s):
Leads to them having more offspring.

4 (2h 1m 55s):
But I said, well, if you're super pro coyote, why would you not encourage that?

3 (2h 2m 1s):
It's true.

4 (2h 2m 2s):
Yeah. and I was just throwing it out there as a rhetorical question.

3 (2h 2m 4s):
Well, it is a rhetorical question, but it actually does have merit, you know, in Dan Flores's book, coyote America, which is an amazing book, fucking incredible book. When you realize how wild those things are. Yeah. And when they get killed, they, when they do their roll call and there's a coyote missing, the female coyotes will produce more pups. I mean that is just, that's the reason why they're everywhere.

4 (2h 2m 26s):
Yeah. I'm friends with Dan. I studied under Dan. I have massive respect for Dan. I have Dan on the show. There's certain little tidbits of this debate that Dan and I don't see eye to eye on. And this is one of them. Yeah. But,

3 (2h 2m 42s):
But the effect, love him. The effect is hard to argue. They, they literally have gone from a hundred years ago Yeah. Where they were primarily in the southwest and in the west to everywhere in New York City. I mean they have coyotes in, in fucking Central Park. Yeah.

4 (2h 2m 57s):
It's crazy. And and some of their, and you gotta realize too, like wildlife dynamics can play out very slowly. So in some ways it's possible they're still responding from the elimination of the wolf. Right. Right, right. Like, like some of this stuff takes so long. It just look at like, why does, just very gradually, why do raccoons and possums keep going north and west? It's just so weirdly gradual. Javelinas Right. Move over time. So you see these things that happen so slowly that you can't picture and play it out. But with the coyote, it seemed like there was a gradual movement and then just an explosion.

4 (2h 3m 38s):
You know, I remember them coming into our area, like I was a red fox trapper and we didn't have coyotes. I remember the first coyote I ever saw. And now it's like, for the most part, red fox are gone and coyotes are there. And that was part of the, like, not just the gradual increase that was like the explosion in the nineties where they just like don don't know. They suddenly figured something out. Something clicked. don don't know what it was man. Why was

3 (2h 4m 7s):
This conversation with some guy in the Hollywood hills? You know, people up there terrified of losing their dogs. They lose their dogs all the time. Dogs and cats get killed by coyotes constantly. And he was telling me about this and it's like, fucking hate them. They're everywhere I go, yeah, I get it. But you love rats because if it wasn't for coyotes, rats would be everywhere. They'd be everywhere. Like they, they also keep the population of things down that you don't want. I mean they're, they're an essential part of the ecosystem. They, they, there's a reason why, like where I used to live in California, it's not infested with rats 'cause it's got a lot of coyotes. They're fucking everywhere. And yeah, don't leave your dog out.

3 (2h 4m 48s):
Yeah. Don't, don't let a, you know, a a kitten roam around your backyard and you're not looking. 'cause they'll get it. You know, they killed all my chickens. But they're also like, they're a very important part of that system.

4 (2h 5m 2s):
Again, I don't dislike 'em. Yeah.

3 (2h 5m 4s):
I love 'em.

4 (2h 5m 4s):
I like 'em. Every year I flesh and stretch a few and send 'em to the tannery. Some down. I'm gonna have a big giant bedspread outta coyotes.

3 (2h 5m 12s):
How many of you have now?

4 (2h 5m 13s):
What's that? How many do you have? How I got saved up now. I mean I used to sell 'em. Now I got saved up, maybe 10 of them

3 (2h 5m 23s):
Up. How many do you need for a bedspread?

4 (2h 5m 24s):
I haven't done the math yet. Me and my buddy sent in and we had 50 beavers and we did two blankets, two big blankets outta 50 beavers. Oh wow. Yeah. Beautiful.

3 (2h 5m 35s):
That I'll show you pics sometime. The first thing is a fascinating one too. 'cause there's people that are really anti fur, but yet they're wearing leather

4 (2h 5m 43s):
And they probably don't like the oil industry,

5 (2h 5m 46s):
But they drive, but they

3 (2h 5m 47s):
Drive a car. Well, that was my favorite. I talked about that on stage last night. The fucking stop oil people that block the highway with their fucking paint on their sign that's made with oil wearing shoes that are made with oil, wearing clothes that made,

4 (2h 6m 1s):
Unless they're dressed in fur, it's made out

3 (2h 6m 3s):
On antidepressants that were made from oil. You know, they use oil for everything.

4 (2h 6m 9s):
I didn't know that. Oh

3 (2h 6m 10s):
Yeah, man. That was, that's something that happened in the, the early 19 hundreds. They, they figured out to use petroleum based things to make medicine. Huh? Yeah. They

4 (2h 6m 21s):
Oils. God, they got their fingers into everything, don't they?

3 (2h 6m 23s):
Everything. Not fur. Not fur. Yeah. Everything. But it's like, the weird thing is like, people don't like animal skins that have fur on it.

4 (2h 6m 33s):
That's the crazy

3 (2h 6m 33s):
Part. Like if you have fur boots, people are like, oh, you piece of shit. Yeah. But if you have leather boots, like, oh, guy's got boots on. Yeah.

4 (2h 6m 39s):
It's almost over noticed. but it always drives me crazy. It's weird. Weird. Like, why is it become bad? Why is it so much better to take the fur off? It's weird.

3 (2h 6m 46s):
It's weird. The skin itself is leather and that's fun. But if you leave the fur on, oh you fucking creep. It's weird.

5 (2h 6m 54s):
Yeah. That's, that's one argument that I, you know, people like to lump kind of an aside but lump hunters into trophy hunters or meat hunters, which I think we would all agree. You can be both. Yes.

4 (2h 7m 5s):
I mean I take, oh, I am 100%.

5 (2h 7m 7s):
I take every ounce of the meat from the animals I kill. Every ounce is like, is more valuable than gold to me. and I take all the antlers, the hide I got, you know, claws, I mean. Yeah. It's like all, that's all part of that memory of that hunt and I. I'm honoring Yes. That memory and that harvest essentially. But I'm also sharing that meat. We eat the meat every night or every day. And it's like, we're both, we're not just, 'cause I, I meet people and they say, well you're not, you're not not a trophy hunter, are you? I'm like, yeah, yeah, I am.

4 (2h 7m 39s):
And I. Yeah. I'd be like, I'm all kinds of hunters. Yeah.

3 (2h 7m 42s):
Well, you know, here's what's interesting is like, we are so separated from the idea of animals and just the wilderness itself being a resource in order to sustain you. But during Covid there was a bunch of people that reached out to me and wanted to start hunting because they had this thought. Because when, like my friend Duncan went to the supermarket and he sent me a picture. He is like, dude, there's no food. Right? Oh. Like he sent me a photo of the, the meat shelf and there was literally like a package of ground beef left. Yeah. There was nothing left. 'cause the supply chain got interrupted and people started thinking, oh my God, we could get to a part where I don't have any food. Like that's a real reality.

4 (2h 8m 22s):
Yeah. People felt vulnerable.

3 (2h 8m 23s):
They felt vulnerable. Yeah. So the two thi two things started happening to me during that. People started reaching out, asking me about hunting. And then when the George Floyd, George Floyd riots kicked in the guns, people wanted to borrow guns. Yeah. People asked to borrow guns. How many guns do you have? Can I have one of your guns? Yeah. I was like, that's not legal. 'cause in Texas, I could just give you one. Which is wild. Like in Texas, you don't even have to fill out paperwork. Like if you were a Texas resident and I was a Texas resident, I'm like, you like that gun? You can have

4 (2h 8m 51s):
It. Oh yeah. Most that's your gun. and I shouldn't say most places, but that, that that's the norm.

3 (2h 8m 55s):
That's the norm. But in California, I was like, I can't do that. It's absolutely illegal. I could go to jail for giving you a gun. Like you have to go through the whole process. And then the lines outside the gun stores were wild

4 (2h 9m 6s):
Because what you can't do is you can't go down and buy, you can't go down to the FFL, the federal, like a, you can't go down to a dealer gun store and buy it and say it's for you and then give it to someone else. But it's actually your buddy buying it. Right. That you definitely can't do. Right. You

3 (2h 9m 25s):
Can't do that.

4 (2h 9m 26s):
But in terms of you like legitimately went and bought it for yourself and then you decided that you did not want it. You can gift that Yeah. To a friend. But what they're trying to prevent is your buddy saying, Hey, go down and buy it for me. I'm a felon and can't. Right.

3 (2h 9m 40s):
That makes sense.

4 (2h 9m 40s):
That's your ass. So they don't pro though, oddly, they, they don't really prosecute people for lying on FFL statements. Interesting. It's a real, yeah. It's a real issue.

3 (2h 9m 50s):
Well, yeah, that could be definitely an issue if someone's a felon. I mean, but then, then there's also the, the,

4 (2h 9m 55s):
They'll reject the purchase and not go after the person.

3 (2h 9m 57s):
But when they have those gun fucking conventions, when you can go and just, what do they call those things when

4 (2h 10m 2s):
They gun shows? Gun

3 (2h 10m 3s):
Shows where people just, you can, that's a weird one, right? Yeah. It's like it's, they kind of can skirt around some regulations. And that was part of the things that people didn't like.

4 (2h 10m 13s):
When you hear in the gun control debate, people about talk, trying to close the gun hole loopholes. They're trying to put it that they should be subject to FFL transfers. But like when my dad died and I got my dad's guns, we didn't do an FFL transfer. No. Right.

5 (2h 10m 30s):
How does any kid get a their for deer

3 (2h 10m 32s):
Hunting rifle? Yeah. Right. You get it from your dad. Get

5 (2h 10m 34s):
From, or your grandpa. Yeah. Or like, here you go, son. Right. Like, that's just how it

4 (2h 10m 38s):
Works. It's wrapped up under the tree man. Isn.

5 (2h 10m 40s):
Yeah. Right.

3 (2h 10m 41s):
Yeah. It's, there's a lot of regulations that make sense and there's a lot of 'em that don't. And most of the ones that come outta California, don't I mean the limiting magazines? That's a fucking insane one. Like down to 10 rounds there certain guns you can't even buy.

5 (2h 10m 54s):
They're trying to do in Oregon five rounds.

3 (2h 10m 57s):
Oh my God. That's

4 (2h 10m 57s):
Hilarious. Didn't wash Washington already did that. Right.

5 (2h 10m 60s):
Maybe so. Maybe that's what I'm

3 (2h 11m 1s):
That is so crazy. Yeah. So what do you do if you have a Glock 16?

4 (2h 11m 4s):
You don't

3 (2h 11m 5s):
Yeah,

5 (2h 11m 6s):
I'm not sure

3 (2h 11m 7s):
I mean That's fucking insane. Yeah, it's

4 (2h 11m 9s):
Insane. I mean, I can't remember. I, I shouldn't speak to that. But I know that there's a, there's don don't know about on, on long guns. There's a restriction, a magazine restriction. What's interesting is for, for hunting waterfowl, federally regulated migratory waterfowl, there's always been a magazine restriction in the field. Three rounds. And then as they're trying to lower snow geese numbers to protect arctic habitats, they've gone in and undone. Mm. They've made an exception to allow unlimited capacity magazines to hunt snow geese. So it's one of those weird areas where you, where you see a, a real reversal of like a time honored tradition, which is three rounds in your gun to make it that people can kill more snow geese.

3 (2h 11m 58s):
That's an animal that I wanna hunt with you one day. The ribeye in the sky. Oh, the cranes. Yeah. Sandhill cranes. I remember. Those are insanely delicious. That's that's great. Yeah. It's crazy when you see a bird that has like a dark red meat. It's like, what is this? This isn't a chicken. Yeah. What the hell kind of bird is this?

4 (2h 12m 15s):
A friend of mine, he's right where he said it's watching one of those come down out of the sky. I was like watching a folding lawn chair hit the ground. It's just a wild bird hunt. Yeah,

5 (2h 12m 25s):
I bet. You know, I, I asked this question to Waddell the other day. What do you guys think would end hunting, if anything does? Hmm. Do you think it would be anti hunters politics or fellow hunters causing division and in fighting and whatever, public

4 (2h 12m 45s):
Referendums. Politics. Politics.

3 (2h 12m 47s):
Yeah. Urban centers. Urban centers where people vote and they don't have an understanding of what they're voting on. That's

4 (2h 12m 52s):
You. Don't gotta wonder about it. You don it. It's it's happening. Yeah. It's like a, it's not theoretical. Well, why

3 (2h 12m 58s):
Would you say hunters though? Like, like hunters, in what way did they stop

5 (2h 13m 3s):
Hunting? Well, because I see fellow hunters, there's so much infighting. Whereas you look at the anti hunters, they're so aligned. They're not like, oh,

4 (2h 13m 11s):
Oh, parsing out the this and that. Yeah.

5 (2h 13m 13s):
Yeah. This, this guy is the number one anti hunter in the United States. No, he is not. He's a piece of shit that hunters love. Like Yeah.

3 (2h 13m 23s):
Tearing each other's funny.

4 (2h 13m 24s):
He aint a real anti hunter.

5 (2h 13m 26s):
Yeah. No, I I'm, he's a, he's a fucking private land hunter.

4 (2h 13m 31s):
He's ruining it for all of us. Anti-hunt. Right.

3 (2h 13m 33s):
He's a wolf in sheep's clothing,

5 (2h 13m 35s):
So it doesn't happen. They are so aligned. Right.

3 (2h 13m 38s):
They

5 (2h 13m 38s):
Get, they get, you know, they have the lobbyists working for 'em. Meanwhile, hunters, fuck, we can't get out of our own way on half the shit.

3 (2h 13m 46s):
Yeah. But I have a long history of being a public person and I understand it from a different dynamic because there's just a thing that happens with men where they become jealous of other men and hateful of other people's success. And then they look at other people for whatever reason, as anytime they do something it takes away from them, or they look at someone getting attention and somehow or another it takes away from them and they focus entirely on that person's success or who that person is and they try to find flaws with them. Yeah. It's a, a natural thing with jealous, weak-minded men. Right.

5 (2h 14m 20s):
So we have that in hunting. Yeah. You

3 (2h 14m 22s):
Gotta have that in everything though. We have that in comedy. It's a real issue with standup comedy. We have that in fighting,

5 (2h 14m 27s):
But nobody's trying to ban comedy.

3 (2h 14m 29s):
But they are, you're wrong. Yeah. There's, there's shitty hun or shitty comics that try to tell people what they

4 (2h 14m 37s):
Can and can't joke about what jokes to make.

5 (2h 14m 38s):
Yeah. Like woke

3 (2h 14m 39s):
Comments. Yep. They all suck. Yeah. There's one thing they have in common. They're all not funny. 100% of them. Every single one. There's not a single one that's exceptional. I do not a single one that is anti comedy about controversial subjects that people are excited to go to see them that are real comedy fans. Mm. That are really good comics. There's not a single anti like, controversial joke comic that other comics seek out to go see.

4 (2h 15m 5s):
What's interesting is half your guests are your competitors. Yeah. Half your guests are comics.

3 (2h 15m 10s):
Yeah. But I don't think of comics ever as competitors. Oh yeah, for sure. They're, they're my tribe. It's, I try the best I can to get them more famous. Yeah. I want them to be huge.

4 (2h 15m 21s):
My daughter had a book that described, she had a book about jealousy and it described jealousy as a hot prickly feeling.

5 (2h 15m 31s):
Mm.

3 (2h 15m 33s):
I've heard it as a vessel that poisons the thing that carries it. Or I mean a a substance that poisons the vessel that carries it. You know? And that's the best way to look at it. It doesn't do you any good. No. but it can do the opposite. but it can do the opposite. If you have a good mindset, if you have a good mindset and you see someone and you're envious, that can be fuel for your success. As long as you manage it in your mind, like almost everything else that's complicated. You have to manage it in your mind as like, this can fuel me and be a fantastic resource. When I see someone's success, I get inspired to work harder, I get inspired to do more. So I am happy that that person is success.

4 (2h 16m 10s):
So if you saw a comic coming up and they were kind of in your wheelhouse and nipping on your heels, you'd be like, I'm gonna have that some bitch on the show. A hundred percent.

3 (2h 16m 17s):
Every time I do it all the

4 (2h 16m 19s):
Time, I'm gonna shine a spotlight on that

3 (2h 16m 21s):
100%. That is my, that's, look, that's why I used to take Joey Diaz on the road with me because I couldn't follow him. Yeah. I was like, he's so funny. He was the funniest guy alive. Yeah. And people were like, you take Joey Diaz on the road with you, you outta your fucking mind. And I'm like, yeah, but, but if I can ride that

4 (2h 16m 38s):
Way, you're setting yourself up to be that one guy that wasn't as funniest, the other guy.

3 (2h 16m 42s):
Oh, I would hear it all the time. People would say, you know, you know, you're opening acts funnier than you. I'm like, yeah, he's

5 (2h 16m 48s):
The best. You have, you have a unique, you have a unique mindset that that's, that's all I worry about. Or not all I worry about, but with hunters, we just, we have a hard time giving other people credit, being supportive of each other, some of us. And so with this, this disjointedness, that's what I get worried

3 (2h 17m 6s):
About. But you know how that changes Hmm. These conversations.

5 (2h 17m 9s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 17m 9s):
Well this gets out there in the zeitgeist. People hear it. They recognize their own failings, their own shortcomings and their own thought processes. And then they realize this is not admirable. Well, some people never will. We

5 (2h 17m 20s):
Can't afford it. I

3 (2h 17m 21s):
Mean we can't

5 (2h 17m 21s):
Afford it. We can't, you know, so I'm thankful for outfits like Dan Gates is in Colorado and then there's another one I wanted to mention called Howell. Yep. and I think, is it John Stallone?

4 (2h 17m 32s):
Man? I know Dan. We had Dan Gates join us at a live show and he's, we got him scheduled to come on the podcast as vote and starts heating up on the, as voting starts. He or you know, as the, we start nearing the date for the initiative in Colorado. Right. I'm familiar with Howell. I was introduced to Howell by Yeah. My colleague gni, who's a supporter and we've done some things to support them. But man, that name, I probably met him, but just right now I'm spacing it. Right. If I am so apologies to him,

5 (2h 18m 2s):
I, I believe it's John Stallone. Yeah. But, but anyway, it's, they are helping keep us organized. They're, you know, make it easy to send letters to legislators and it, it's just,

4 (2h 18m 13s):
Yeah. They're leading the fight on the Yeah. They're leading the fight on the, on the hunting bans. Right.

5 (2h 18m 17s):
So, and

4 (2h 18m 18s):
That and that, especially in that arena right there. That's

5 (2h 18m 20s):
A positive. That's a big one. Yeah. They're still like, in the grand scheme of things, small, like if you look at numbers of followers or things like that, but they're making an impact. And so I've, I've been trying to, I wanna support them and, and help where we can. It's just, you know, this, you know, you're unique when you look at a comic, hot comic coming up and you wanna celebrate 'em. I wish hunting could be more like that.

3 (2h 18m 42s):
It can be. It can be. You just gotta, these weak people have to understand that we know what they are. We, we see right through them. And you're not admirable. Not only are you not admirable, you're not respected by your peers. Everybody knows you're a bitch. Nobody likes a bitch. No. And when you're a man and you can't recognize another man's success or you, you see a man and you measure yourself up to him and you fall short. And so you start shitting on that person. Everybody knows what you're doing. Every man knows what you're doing. Especially every exceptional man. They know 100% what you're doing. So you have to live with that. And that's how it, it's a poison that ruins the vessel that carries it. It's not good for anybody. and it is just a thing that people do.

3 (2h 19m 24s):
People have always been jealous of other human beings throughout time. But you gotta understand for your own personal benefit, that feeling can be changed inside of you to fuel. and it will make you a better person. It'll make you better at what you do. It'll make you understand that competition is critical and vital and order for you to reach your full potential. You don't reach your full potential if you're the king and everybody else is a pussy. Because then you're like, well, I'm the king. Everybody else is just a bitch. don don't have to be any better. But if you're a king around other kings, you realize, wow, these guys are all fucking getting up earlier than me. Working harder than me. Thinking smarter than me being more effective.

3 (2h 20m 5s):
Recognizing their shortcomings, fixing them, talking about it with other people that do the same and growing from each other. You know, when we have like the, in the mothership, the comedy club that I own, when we get together in the green room during the shows, we're always breaking down bits. We're talking, we don't like hold secrets. We don't have like trade secrets. I don't wanna tell anybody how I write. I tell everybody how I write. I tell everybody how I correct things. I'm like, this is a thing that I've noticed that helps me. Here's a thing that I've added. I started listening to my recordings and doing this afterwards when I get home. I always do. If you just do that one hour every night, just think over time how much. And then my other friends have said, I started doing that, dude, it's, you're right.

3 (2h 20m 46s):
I just sat down for 10 minutes. I had a new bid. I wouldn't have come up with that bid if I didn't do that. Like yes. Yeah. Now we all learn from each other. But if you see this one guy that's, that's out there that's putting in all this extra work and succeeding and you just start shitting on them, everybody knows what you're doing. You know what you're doing, motherfucker. You know, in your heart of hearts, you know you're being a bitch. Right. And you can live with that if you like. But I can't, I, I am allergic to that feeling in me. I hate that feeling. I've experienced it. I know what it is. It'll still bubble up every now and then if someone's killing it, I'm like, wow, that guy's doing so good. Mother fuck him. You know, like that fuck him.

3 (2h 21m 27s):
Part of you is always there, but you gotta go, oh, you little bitch I know what you are, you're a little bitch. But if you can do, do that, and this is in the mirror. Yeah. Yeah. but it, my just generally never gets the mirror. It's like I try to squack that fucker as soon as it comes up like a weed, I pull it out right away. But if you don't do that, it's not good. It's not good for you. You never change people's opinions. If someone is doing exceptional work and doing an exceptional job of being very unusually successful and then you start picking on all the little flaws in that person and people are gonna look at you, they're gonna go, but you're kind of fat and lazy and you're, you fuck up all the time and you're always drunk and like, you got this problem, that problem.

3 (2h 22m 12s):
And how come you're not looking at your own self with the same scrutiny that you look at this extremely successful person. Yeah. It's because you're jealous. That's all it is. It's a natural human instinct. But that feeling can be repurposed. That thought can benefit you. That feeling of comparing yourself and coming up short, what you're supposed to do is going, what do I need to do? So I don't have this feeling anymore. Why do I need to work harder? I need to work smarter. I need to do some things and I'm not doing that. Maybe make me uncomfortable and that's what I need to do to get better.

5 (2h 22m 45s):
Yeah. You know, to your point, last night I saw two of the funniest people I've ever seen. Shane and Tony both putting notes in their phone from comments that were made in the green room. Yeah.

3 (2h 22m 58s):
Oh really? Oh, we always do that. Yeah. So

5 (2h 23m 0s):
They're like just, he's like, oh that's okay. I'm gonna put this down so I don't forget it. Trying to grow to, you know, that's exactly what you're talking about. They're, they're almost at the top of the game still trying to get better based on feedback from other comics.

3 (2h 23m 13s):
Yeah. We always do that. We workshop constantly. We're always in that green room that, and I was trying to explain that to one of the managers. I was like, the reason why we have to, like when comics get together, like we're at the comics bar and we're all just talking shit. Like if someone is sensitive and they get in that and they start complaining about jokes that are being told, Hey, you've gotta leave now. Because this is literally how we spar. Like this is what we do. If you're complaining that someone is making fun of this person or picking on that person, creating an unsafe work environment, okay, well you can't be here. It is like if you go to the gym and you're trying to be a boxer and you're like, everybody's trying to hit me. Like that's what they do. This is, this is how you get better.

3 (2h 23m 53s):
You hit each other. You don't like being hit. You can't be here. You can't fucking be here. And that's, yeah. This is like just the reality of what we do. And the only people that really truly know that are the practitioners, the ones who are doing this very difficult thing. Look, with standup comedy, there's a lot of hunters. There's a thousand of us on earth that are worth a fuck. It might be less, I'm being generous, it's probably 500. It might be two 50 that I wanna see on Planet Earth. 250 comics that I would go outta my way to see. That's not a lot. No. Like we gotta fucking stick together. Yeah. There's so few of us. If you be shitting on this guy, 'cause he's selling out arenas, why do you think people like him?

3 (2h 24m 36s):
What is it? What's he doing? Well he's doing something. Fucking figure it out. Get better.

5 (2h 24m 42s):
That I was, I'm curious, does comedy have the same in hunting? It was a big deal when the girls started coming in. Right? So a lot of guys would say, oh she's just getting this because she's got her tits out or whatever. Right.

3 (2h 24m 56s):
Which is true.

5 (2h 24m 57s):
And, but I could see, I could see comedy being the same. Like, 'cause there are women comics. Did you guys look at women and be like, she shouldn't be up there. It's only, she's only up there. Get to stage time 'cause she's hot.

3 (2h 25m 8s):
Well, comedy's a meritocracy. The thing about comedy is if you're not funny, we find out real quick. Nobody laughs at you just 'cause your tits are out. Well the thing about hunting though, like there's, there's gals that become very popular online that are just hot wearing camo. And

5 (2h 25m 24s):
That's just, but how I looked at it is if I can't be more whatever, stand out more than this girl, just 'cause she's hot, I must not be that fucking good.

3 (2h 25m 35s):
I think of it in terms of eff effectiveness. Like if a girl's really hot and she's got big tits and camo, but she's also a beast and she's out there really killing a lot of things. How many?

5 (2h 25m 44s):
How many? Okay. That's not very many. Right.

3 (2h 25m 46s):
So what are you worried about? I'm not I know. I know. You're not, a lot of guys are. Were, but like what are you worried about? They're not effective. Like if there's a girl that's hot and she gets on stage and she's bombing all the time, no one's like, yeah, she's only up there 'cause she's hot. Like you don't care. Like if she's bombing, if someone's, if someone bombs all the time, you're like, ugh, get away from me. Like, you don't wanna be around them. They're like, it's like it's contagious. I would, but if someone's good, like Whitney Cummings, right? Whitney Cummings is hot, but she's also really fucking funny. Yeah. And so when Whitney's just a real comic, when we're around Whitney, no one thinks, oh here's that hot chick that's like, it's just like, oh, it's Whitney. What's up? It's like she's one of us. Yeah. But she also is hot.

3 (2h 26m 28s):
It's hard to be that person. It's very fucking rare. But it's doable. Yeah. But she had to go through all these ladders to get there. 'cause it is preconceived notions when you see a woman go on stage, you like immediately mo a lot of men. I've been guilty of it. You know, what are the odds? She's funny. She's too hot. It's like you almost immediately think you

4 (2h 26m 48s):
Can't have it all.

3 (2h 26m 49s):
Well, it's also you think like, what did, how did she ever like Richard hit? Christopher Hitchens rather wrote a, a long piece for Vanity Fair once called Women Aren't Funny. Mm.

4 (2h 26m 58s):
I remember

3 (2h 26m 58s):
That. It was brilliant. Mm. He's so, he was so fucking smart. Who, who wrote that? Christopher Hitchens. Okay. Because he could attack things from a level of intellectual introspection. Like he has looked at this in a way, like analyze his own thoughts on funny how he feels, how other people feel. He broke it down so clearly that like female comics really couldn't even say anything about it. 'cause what he was saying was true. He was like, the ones that are fun are kind of dikey. They're kind of like, they're, they're, you know, like these.

4 (2h 27m 33s):
And then he is like, now I'll go back to attacking religion. Yeah. And other safe subjects. But there's,

3 (2h 27m 40s):
There was, you know, it's that thing. It's like, why do, why are men funny? Men are funny for a lot of reasons to impress women. That's how they learn to do it. To impress their friends. Like it's a part of the natural banter that men have when they get together. Women don't necessarily have that same banter. Some do, but most don't. And women don't have to be funny to attract men. They just have to look good. So they think they're funny. 'cause guys are laughing at anything 'cause they wanna sleep with them. They're like, oh, you're so funny. I remember,

4 (2h 28m 9s):
I remember when we were young, someone pointing out that for a girl to say a guy was nice is not good.

3 (2h 28m 15s):
Oh,

4 (2h 28m 16s):
Right. They're like, dude, she said, you're nice. They're like, if she says that he's funny, that's a real good sign.

3 (2h 28m 23s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's true. Yeah. It's a good sign. It's true.

4 (2h 28m 25s):
Because you don't want the nice thing.

3 (2h 28m 27s):
There's less funny women, but the women that are funny, I, I respect the shit outta them because it's so hard to do. Especially First of all your subject matters. Limited. 'cause nobody wants to see a woman talking about politics on stage. Very few men wanna see a woman with like very strong political opinions on things. Like, shut the fuck up. They get mad. And then if you talk about sex, you talk about sex too much. Oh, she's a slut. Like there's all these thoughts that,

4 (2h 28m 52s):
That's always struck me as the unfair thing is how much guys get uncomfortable about that.

3 (2h 28m 56s):
Oh, totally unfair. Yeah. Totally unfair. Completely

4 (2h 28m 59s):
Unfair. Guys get real, like, ugh.

3 (2h 29m 1s):
But it does create a, a situation for a woman comic that if a woman comic can navigate that they become undeniable. If you can navigate all those preconceived ideas that people have about you before you go on stage, but yet you still succeed at making them laugh. That's black belt shit. Yeah. That's high level comedy. And that's what Whitney can do. Yeah. You know, she, she pull, I've seen people look at her when she gets on stage and they're like,

4 (2h 29m 29s):
She's hot. Like whatever. Yeah. Yeah. She's hot.

3 (2h 29m 31s):
And then, and then she starts killing and they're like, God damnit, she's fucking funny. And then after a while you just give in, you're like, wow, she's fucking great. And then you're laughing. You're just enjoying yourself. But it's, it's much more complex. Whereas a fat guy gets on stage and you know, he's already funny. He's funny looking. Big fat, stupid looking guy. And he starts talking about himself being fat. And then, you know, you got a lot of Yeah. People. Lot of leeway. Yeah.

4 (2h 29m 55s):
You know, I wanna return to for a minute. You're talking about after, you know, comics being in the green room, workshopping if, if in Colorado they lose this ballot initiative about hunting bobcats and hunt mountain lions around this definition of trophy hunting. And America's hunters get together in the green room and workshop, what went wrong? Yeah. I think they're gonna determine that what went wrong is not identifying with and fighting for people who are engaged in the activity that, that a specific segment of the activity that you're not engaged with.

4 (2h 30m 38s):
Right. And needing to come into the awareness that like this, as this plays out, this will get around to impacting you. Yes.

3 (2h 30m 50s):
Yeah. But you have to have that ability to

4 (2h 30m 51s):
Do that. Yeah. This is gonna get around, this is like the next thing that comes up is gonna be something that is gonna like strike at you near and dear. And it's gonna be bow hunting is cruel, unnecessarily cruel. Right?

3 (2h 31m 4s):
Yeah. There are people that have that perspective Yeah. That are haunters.

4 (2h 31m 7s):
Yeah. And then they're gonna, then you're gonna be like, you're gonna freakout.

3 (2h 31m 11s):
Right? Yeah. Yeah.

4 (2h 31m 13s):
When they start coming, this is going too far, you

3 (2h 31m 15s):
Know? Yeah. Yeah. Then you'll, then you and

4 (2h 31m 16s):
You'll be, you'll be the one that you, you ignored when other you'll be ignored when other traditional use practices were getting eliminated because it didn't affect you. And then now here it is on your doorstep.

3 (2h 31m 28s):
Yeah. There's also a thing about hunters where they're competitive in a different way than like saying comparison to standup comics. 'cause standup comics, you have that audience to yourself. It's not like they killed the audience. The audience doesn't exist anymore. Like, I had a great audience. Oh, did you kill 'em? All you fucking piece of shit. That's good point. Now they're gone. Sucks. Used them up. Yeah. But if like, you go to the mountains and you kill a 400 inch bull, like that's a 400 inch bull that's gone now. Yeah. I can't kill that bull now. Ah. He fucking kills all the big bulls. There's no bulls left. Audiences are always there. And the more comics that are really funny, the more it makes comedy grow and you get more audiences, you're not assassinating them.

3 (2h 32m 9s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 32m 9s):
Yeah. But, but you could be competing with them on any given night though. Yeah. You're both, you're both in Toledo on Monday

3 (2h 32m 16s):
Sort of. But when it's your opportunity, it's your opportunity and it's just your own shortcomings that are allowing you to fail in comparison to them. It's not them doing something. It's not like they're yelling at you from the side of the stage trying to fuck up your routine. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. But it's like when you have your time, that's your time. And that's, yeah.

5 (2h 32m 36s):
I think, you know, with a bull, there's more bulls though. You know, it's not like there's just one.

3 (2h 32m 40s):
There are, but there's not a lot of 400 inch bulls. No. And if you're, you're a public land hunter and there's a specific unit and there's, you know, that's allocated 150 tags for the specific unit and everybody's in there hiking out, trying, and one guy shoots this big ass bull. That's a big ass bull that you're not gonna be able to kill. Yeah. And so there's a different level of competition because even though it's a renewable resource, it's a limited resource. Yeah. And there's also exceptional aspects that resource like an enormous animal, a very unusual, rare outlier of an animal that if someone kills it now you can't. So there's that competition. And then there's also the, the fucking dick measuring thing where guys are taking grip and grins.

3 (2h 33m 21s):
You know, one of the things that's really disturbing to me is the numbers thing. You know, I was talking to a friend of mine who is a guide, and he was furious because this guy who was this, well-known hunter, shot a mule deer and it was a beautiful mule deer, but it was only 189 inches.

4 (2h 33m 41s):
And he, and he wanted a one 90, he

3 (2h 33m 43s):
Wanted 200 inch. Oh. And he didn't think of it as like, he was like, it's just a just a buck. It was just a buck. And this guy was like, I would cut off my left nut to shoot that fucking buck. And this guy is this rich famous hunter who goes in and he's complaining about it. He's not even appreciating this thing. No.

5 (2h 34m 0s):
It's a buck. Just a buck. Just a buck. That's a giant buck. It's

3 (2h 34m 3s):
A giant old seven, 8-year-old deer.

5 (2h 34m 6s):
That's a giant

4 (2h 34m 7s):
Deer dude. I'll, yeah. But it's funny. I'll get something. I have a lot of stuff that I've never measured. Never will. I got a really nice moose this year. I don't, you know, don don't even, I don't, no one measures. I shouldn't say no one. Yeah. Pretty much. No one measures moose. You tell about how wide they're, and you leave it at that. Right. But I will have stuff for now and then someone's like, you know, around me that likes to do that. And I'd be like, dude, measure that thing. I'm just curious about it. Right. Yeah. See what I mean. It's like, I don don't hate the,

5 (2h 34m 35s):
It's a point of reference.

4 (2h 34m 36s):
Yeah. I don't hate the number system. I get curious about like, I'm curious about all aspects of all about all aspects of hunting and wildlife and, and the Boone and Crockett system is of interest to me. I don't live and die by it Some, but I know I'll be at times. I'm not curious what that is. but it, someone shot a real stomp or I might be like, what does that magic dude like, what, what did it, what did it take out to

5 (2h 34m 57s):
Put tape? Yeah. That's, that's what I, that's what I do too. I don't necessarily care about what if I kill something just 'cause I just was there

3 (2h 35m 5s):
Mature animal.

5 (2h 35m 6s):
I'm not, I'm not thinking about is this 400, is this no anything. and I, I said this the other day and talking to Waddell, it's like, you know, people talk about that. You get great opportunities to hunt. You know, I mean that's just all there is to it. But I said, Joe, I've never heard Joe talk about a score of something or he didn't want to kill it. 'cause I said he doesn't care. There's been one antler elk that he's like, he would kill it. He Right. Would you? I

3 (2h 35m 33s):
Tried to. Yeah.

5 (2h 35m 34s):
And you, you're fine with it. Guys pulled me

3 (2h 35m 35s):
Off. I'm like, I don't care. Yeah. I'm gonna eat that. Right. And he is a big bull. Like I kind, I think it's kind of cool when they have broken antlers. Right. So, so it doesn't bother me at all. People

5 (2h 35m 43s):
Will, will take shots at you 'cause you killed a giant bull and this and that and they've been hunting their whole lives. It's like you don't give a fuck. You just wanna hunt. You're hunting. Yeah. And You don't care what it scores. You're not after like the biggest bull on the mountain. You just love hunting and like, that's the truth. People can turn it into whatever they want. Yeah. They're wrong.

4 (2h 36m 3s):
I'm like Daniel Boone, man. I go to the best hunting place I can go. Yeah.

3 (2h 36m 6s):
Yeah. You should

4 (2h 36m 7s):
Like, I don't know many people that who wouldn't. Yeah. It's like, who wouldn't? I don't know many people that if they said like, Hey man, we're gonna go on family vacation and we found this sweet spot, but then we got thinking we should actually go to family vacation in a shitty spot. Yeah.

3 (2h 36m 20s):
Well it's also all the, it's the same thing that we're talking about with, with jealousy. If those people had the resources that I have, and if you didn't do what I do, you're a moron. You don't go to the places where there's elk screaming all over the place and it's awesome.

4 (2h 36m 34s):
I'm, yeah. I'm always looking for good opportunities. Yeah. I mean, I'll take the shitty ones too. 'cause I'm looking to get out all the time. So I'll take the shitty ones. I'll take the good ones. But I'm gonna generally, like if I get to a, if I'm at a, a fork in the trail and one side is like good and one side's bad, I'm going up the good one

3 (2h 36m 52s):
A hundred percent of the time. Yeah. It's,

5 (2h 36m 54s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 36m 55s):
It's just a resource thing. You know, like, do do you have the ability to do that? If you don't, you might criticize people to do, oh,

4 (2h 37m 1s):
Ever since I was a little kid, we went to, I did the best thing, you know, I did. I went to the best spot I could get my hands on. Find the

3 (2h 37m 11s):
Best fishing hole always.

4 (2h 37m 12s):
Whatever. It's like,

5 (2h 37m 13s):
Well, I mean you, you're right. It's a resource thing. 'cause when I started where I killed that spike bull that I talked about earlier, that was warehouse or timber company land. Anybody could go there. Everybody could go there. Freaking hard hunting to kill a bull with a bow so hard up there. That was as tough as it got. Right. So then I'm like, well God, we could go to the wilderness. It's more open. It's on the east side of the state where I was hunting the west side of the state. The bulls are more vocal. It's the high country that's better hunting God. But that cost, we gotta drive all the way, eight hours across the state. We need gas money. We need food when we're there. We're not just going home every night. but it was better hunting. So yeah, Roy sold a gun.

5 (2h 37m 55s):
We got some money, we drove over there better hunting. Then it was like, shit, Oregon. Oregon sucks hunting wise compared to other states. It's like, I wonder if I could hunt Wyoming, put in for general tag in Wyoming. Drew it killed a six by six bowl. Next time I drew it killed a seven by six. Oh my god, this is so much better than Oregon. but it's $1,100 for this premium milk tag that I was putting in for. Gotta work a little harder. Gotta come up with some more resource. You said it's, it's a resource that you're allocating. Worked a little harder. That was better hunting. It's just that process. I started with the shittiest hunting you can get in the shittiest state to hunt basically. Maybe Washington's about as

4 (2h 38m 35s):
Bad. No, my state was way shittier than your state. Yeah,

5 (2h 38m 39s):
Yeah. Exactly.

4 (2h 38m 40s):
So, but

5 (2h 38m 41s):
You, you keep working for, for these

4 (2h 38m 42s):
Don't you? Gimme shitty state. You shitty stuff

5 (2h 38m 47s):
Michigan. Is

4 (2h 38m 48s):
That where I'll tease it. But no, we, we, we, we, I had it quite good. I'm just joking with you.

3 (2h 38m 52s):
But, but that's how people think.

5 (2h 38m 54s):
No, it, it's true. You're right. But anyway, the point is, is like you keep working, you keep moving up the ladder to get to better hunting. Yeah.

3 (2h 39m 1s):
Now it, it crosses a line. and I do understand when people are killing high fence animals in small properties and they're making it look like this is a wild animal. Yeah. You know, there's a, there, there comes a line and that line gets crossed all the fucking time right here in Texas. Yeah. I don't like, 'cause I know people that have I know a guy who has a 200 acre high fence property. And I'm like, woo. I

5 (2h 39m 27s):
Don't, I don't, that's rough. I don't think I can go there. That's rough. Yeah. I

3 (2h 39m 29s):
Can go there. If you have a 15, 20,000 acre high fence property, I'm like, okay, what are the odds? Those animals, unless it's a mule deer, it's a migratory animal. What are the odds those animals would ever get out of that 15,000 acres in their normal natural life? As long as you're not feeding them. If you're not like, like I'm standing over a feeder waiting for them to show up at 5:00 PM as long as it's not that. It's just hunting. And when people start talking about private land versus public, I understand the appeal and I understand that public land should be available to everybody. and I agree and I think it's an amazing thing that we have here in America where we have these resources where any person can go to a place where you can get a general tag and go to public land and hunt.

3 (2h 40m 13s):
I think it's amazing. But you're also dealing with animals that are acting in a very unnatural way because they're highly pressured. So if you have a lot of hunters and a lot of pressured animals, you're dealing with an animal that's not acting like a wild animal. You're dealing with something that's being constantly harassed. And that to me is unnatural.

4 (2h 40m 33s):
Well that, yeah. Then you get into like a history debate. 'cause you're on landscapes that have been hunted. But I I would agree that high pressure absolutely changes everything about how they conduct Yeah. Their

3 (2h 40m 51s):
Business. You're also competing with other guys. Like I've, I've talked to guys that have had situations where they know that they are downwind or they're, you know, their, they're upwind rather their, their wind is gonna come down on an animal, but they see someone stalking that animal and they try to get to it first and they know they're gonna bust it. They know it and they don't give a

5 (2h 41m 8s):
Fuck. They would rather bust it than have the other guy kill it. Yeah. That's

3 (2h 41m 11s):
California, man. They're gonna take a chance. And there's so many morons that are doing it. I think the best case scenario is human beings interacting with absolutely wild animals in a way where these animals aren't acting as natural as they would be is if human beings didn't exist. That's best case scenario. Yeah. And if you can get to the most remote places, that's where you can get that in the most wild places.

5 (2h 41m 37s):
I will say your example about you didn't want somebody else to kill it, so you're gonna go down. I've probably done that before. It's like when I was, when I was hunting. It is like every man for himself. Yeah.

3 (2h 41m 49s):
I'm not

4 (2h 41m 49s):
Well, IRA, I've raised people.

5 (2h 41m 51s):
I mean

4 (2h 41m 52s):
I've also backed out of races. Yeah.

5 (2h 41m 53s):
I, when

4 (2h 41m 54s):
I where it felt, it just felt too weird. It did. And I'm like, I'm

5 (2h 41m 56s):
Not gonna do this. It did I, because I remember here's how much I wanted to protect my, in that same logging country. I would go out and the road would end. Maybe I didn't wanna drive out to the log unit. 'cause that's gonna spook all the deer. Especially in the headlights before it's, you know, light and you're out there waiting. So I'd park like half a mile back and walk out there, but I didn't want anybody else driving out there. So I'd park in the middle of the road sideways, leave my truck there. It's like, I'm not saying you can't come out there, but you're not driving people. People lost their shit. I mean Oh yeah. I mean I would hear gunshots going off of my truck. Then I'm like, fuck, are they shooting my truck? You know, you don't Or are they gonna shoot me when I, so I did a lot of this crazy stuff.

5 (2h 42m 40s):
I mean I'm very competitive. Yeah. I did wanna also clarify one point. 'cause you said animals on 15,000 acres, you know, would, wouldn't react be reacting. They wouldn't know they were in a fence type thing. I, because I've I've seen people say crazy shit about are hunting, but you, the bulls you kill are not an offense. No. There's no offense. I've never been in a fence. No. Always been fair. Chase always been. I've even said, oh, these bulls run beta blockers some crazy bullshit. Be beta blockers. Beta blockers. So

3 (2h 43m 10s):
On bulls to, to limit their, their

5 (2h 43m 14s):
Adrenaline. I I don't even know what the hell it'd do. So they, well, beta blockers, I guess they're

3 (2h 43m 17s):
Guess athletes can't use them. And there's there's certain sports. They're not scared. Yeah. It kills your adrenaline

5 (2h 43m 22s):
Spike. So people say crazy shit. I don't want them turning in that you are validating a, a big high,

3 (2h 43m 29s):
High fence area. No, I've never done that.

5 (2h 43m 30s):
No, don don't do that. You're the bulls. You're hunting are wild, fair chase. There's predators round, there's lions, there's bears, there's I. mean this is wild elk. Oh yeah. I just wanna make that clear because people take, say they say crazy shit. Maybe

3 (2h 43m 44s):
Even 15,000 acres is not a good example. So look, let's say like the four six ranch that my friend Taylor Sheridan owns, it's 270,000 acres.

4 (2h 43m 55s):
Wow. Yeah. Really? Yeah. He, he hasn't fenced that.

3 (2h 43m 58s):
No.

5 (2h 43m 59s):
God, that'd be a lot of money in a, you know

3 (2h 44m 1s):
What I'm saying? But even if he did fence, but even if he did, you know, that's like the fuck. Yeah. Like, that's where they live. Yeah. You just put a fence to keep other people from going in. You're really not, you're not stock. That's like natural habitat. Yeah.

4 (2h 44m 13s):
I mean the whole country fenced in by oceans kind, whole kind.

3 (2h 44m 17s):
You could look at it that way.

4 (2h 44m 18s):
But I've, I've never done it and I've never done it. and I've had like occasion to debate people about it, but it still, like, maybe I used to be a little friskier about arguing about all the finer points, but it's just, it's, I haven't done it. I just, I don't really think about it. You know what I mean?

3 (2h 44m 39s):
It's not the same thing. You know, like when I talk to guys who hunt out here, and most of them are pretty honest about it, the way they do it, like they'll hunt over feeders. These are not people that hunt a lot. They don't practice a lot. But when they get a chance, it's essentially like a kind of harvesting animals. It's almost like a type of farming because you're, if you're hunting over a feeder and like, they'll put you in a tree stand and say, all right, the feeder goes off at five o'clock and you're like, what?

4 (2h 45m 2s):
Yeah. It's a collision of animal. It's a collision of husbandry and animal husband. Yeah. Of hunting and animal husbandry where you're using the sort of harvest tactics of hunting, but you're employing a lot of the principles of animal husbandry.

3 (2h 45m 16s):
Yeah. It's not the same thing. It's not going into the mountains like we do. Like we're, we're hunting in Utah or you're going to Colorado, you're going in the mountains. Yeah. Well these are wild animals. They're unfenced.

5 (2h 45m 27s):
And to that point, it's not guaranteed. I mean not at all. I mean when we were there this last season, great. It's great property I mean it, I, nobody could argue that it's incredible elk hunting. But there was hunters the week we were there who didn't kill the week after we were there, seven guys did not kill.

3 (2h 45m 45s):
Well, the week we were there, only three did.

5 (2h 45m 48s):
So

3 (2h 45m 49s):
Only three guys killed the

5 (2h 45m 50s):
Bow. People make it sound like it's just shooting fish in a barrel and guaranteed a hundred percent. It's like

3 (2h 45m 56s):
How many hunters were there the week we were there?

5 (2h 45m 58s):
I'm not sure

3 (2h 45m 59s):
There was, I, there had to be 30

5 (2h 46m 4s):
I. know. It's a, it's a big piece of property

3 (2h 46m 6s):
And it's fucking hard man. And you gotta be in shape. Yeah. You gotta be in real.

5 (2h 46m 10s):
We put in miles,

3 (2h 46m 11s):
Miles, 10 miles a day. 10 miles a day through the mountains. the end of the day you're fucking exhausted. You're eating everything you can get in your face. Yeah. You're so tired. And then you're getting up in the morning and you're doing it again. And the idea that that somehow or another that's cheating. You could think that if you like, but if you do it, you go there. You won't think that if you go there, you're like, oh, this is just an amazing opportunity in a beautiful landscape where wild animals live unmolested. You know,

5 (2h 46m 40s):
There's still lions there. I mean.

3 (2h 46m 41s):
Oh, the one that we saw. Yeah. That was the first time I'd ever saw a full grown big ass cat in the wild. I was like, wow.

4 (2h 46m 48s):
I got to watch one Miss a deer down in Mexico this year was really cool. Oh wow. You know, watched him come in. It was a dough. She was traveling. I watched him come in ahead of her and he kept looking down and trying to guess her trajectory. And then got and laid down and then missed her.

3 (2h 47m 7s):
Did he go after her and missed

4 (2h 47m 8s):
Her? Oh yeah. Yeah. Wow. Wow. Like you couldn't even tell I mean when it was like a ball of fur dude. And she comes squirt. Well I'm saying I'm kind of simplifying it where there was a fork key I didn't know about. And she got up right next to this fork key and then the lion blew out and kind of first tried to roll that forkey and then sort of sprang out of that and tried to get the dough. Mm. but it was like he was, he was flock shooting.

3 (2h 47m 33s):
Oh. He didn't have a target.

4 (2h 47m 35s):
He probably, if you asked him, he probably had a target, but man, Nate ran like hell. Wow. but it was cool to see, dude, that was the second line I saw that night. Yeah. Oh wow. That was a rarity. Yeah. Yeah.

5 (2h 47m 44s):
That when I was in Colorado this year, in the week that I was there, I killed a bull buck and a bear. In that week I saw four lions. Hmm. Wow. So many lions in that country.

4 (2h 47m 55s):
That's a lifetime supply for seeing them without dogs.

5 (2h 47m 58s):
It's a, it was insane. But it's, yeah, I was gonna say, that story reminded me of, you said the flock shooting. I remember this old guy come back from to hunting camp when I first started I was like, you see anything? He's like, yeah. Yeah. So I got on a good herd. I said, did you get a shot? He's like, yeah, yeah. What happened? He's like, well, I shot over some and I shot under some. I'll never forget. I could just envision that there's a herd and try to get an arrow in one of 'em. But yeah, it's,

3 (2h 48m 34s):
You imagine being a Native American with a fucking handmade bow chasing after those

4 (2h 48m 40s):
Things. That'd tough. I bet that shit didn't spook 200 yards away back then,

3 (2h 48m 42s):
Though. I bet it Yeah, that's true.

4 (2h 48m 44s):
Yeah. But you know that I, the first, I'm trying to think, man. The first three or so deer I got, I got on on when I was a kid. I killed first deer and I was 13, the first three or so deer I got. I got all on private property and then I killed, I went into the White River, kind of the, we used to call it the White River swamp, but down on national forest land and killed a fawn one October with my bow. And you didn't hear people, like, people didn't celebrate public land hunting then It was like you were slowing it so you were there. 'cause you couldn't get a, no farmer was gonna let you You didn't know any farmers.

4 (2h 49m 24s):
You know, like if you went out on public land in Michigan and you went to anybody that was on public land and said, Hey, do you wanna hunt like the farm over there? No one is like out of principle, by God I'm staying here. They would just, they would go to the farm. But when I did get that fawn deer, which I killed over a bait pile in the White river swamp, it felt good, man. Like, you know what I mean? Right. Like, I was aware of having did this thing that I would've Yeah. To having did this thing that I would've regarded as almost like semi impossible. Right. You know, to pull that off.

3 (2h 49m 60s):
Oh, I have a deep respect for people that can shoot mature animals on public land. Sure. Man, that is very hard to do. And it's very I mean. I and I get that you would have a higher sense of pride. I, I totally get it.

4 (2h 50m 11s):
I've gotten, I've gotten a handful. I've gotten like four big mul deer, nice mul deer. I've never killed a mul deer on private property and I got four good mule deer on public property. And like that, like, I can't deny that that that sort of means a thing to me. Yeah. You know, not that I wouldn't, like if someone, tomorrow, if I drew some tag in some area and some guy's like, oh, hunt my ranch. I'd go hunt that ranch All day long. but it just ha it sort of like happens that, that's true. and I don't look at it and think differently of it the same way all kinds of factors play into it. You know? I, yeah.

4 (2h 50m 51s):
But every year, like I've gotten some big kous deer and I've never, all the kous deer I've killed on big private ranches in Mexico except for Arizona. But gotten nice you on big private ranches in Mexico and love the experience. Yeah. It's just, I, I like all that I mean. I'm into all that stuff, man. You know? Yeah.

3 (2h 51m 8s):
I, I get why people would think a certain way. 'cause it's very similar in a lot of ways to bow hunting versus rifle hunting. Yeah. A little

4 (2h 51m 15s):
Bit more.

3 (2h 51m 15s):
Can you see someone that kills a big bull with a rifle? You're like, yeah, that's, that's a big bull man. That's awesome. But if you see someone that kills a big bull with a bow, you're like, whoa, that's a bigger deal. It's, it's just, and it feels way different as someone who shot bulls with rifles and shot bull with a bow and arrow. You cannot compare in my, the way it makes me feel when I make a perfect 52 yard shot and I, watch that arrow go into the crease behind the shoulder and you watch that bull buck up and you know, you got 'em, you're like, woo. It's like, there's nothing like it. There's nothing like it. There's nothing. I was hunting with Evan Hoefer from Black Rifle Coffee this past October.

3 (2h 51m 56s):
We were both elk hunting at this ranch. And I shot this bull and it was like on the fifth day of a sixth day hunt. It was a lot of huffing. There's a lot of fucking missed opportunities. A lot of getting winded, a lot of, a lot of shit went down. But when I finally snuck in and it was a long ass stalk, it was like, it took me an hour and a half to cover about 40 or 50 yards. 'cause I was, the, the, the elk was bedded and I was barefoot. I was just in my socks. and I was just slowly creeping, slowly creeping. And every time he'd move his head, I'd stop. and I was slowly creeping when I finally released that arrow and it hit that bull and I heard that whack and the bull literally ran 30, 40 yards and piled up the woo that I let out.

3 (2h 52m 45s):
You could have heard it a fucking mile away. I they heard it on the other side of the canyon. They were watching with binoculars and they heard, whoa. Because it's so different. Yeah. If I shot it with a rifle, I'd still be pumped. It's beautiful bull. It's meat. I'm psyched. I got all this food now. This is incredible. This is what I wanted. This is what I was working for. But it's harder, it's harder to do on public land. It's harder to do with a bow. There's

4 (2h 53m 10s):
Harder to do. There's always little factors that Yeah. Like a, any accomplishment. There's these little factors that wind up, you know, accentuated, elevating an experience or, or, or some other thing. You know. And then you get into like, where I'm at now in life where, for me, the, the high, like the most elevated experiences to have to witness my kids do something. Mm. Right. Yeah. Take my kids hunting. Yeah.

3 (2h 53m 34s):
Well, cam always talks about that, like his favorite experiences and when he takes people for their first time. Like, you were telling me that, that the time you took that woman Yeah,

5 (2h 53m 41s):
Cat.

3 (2h 53m 42s):
Yeah. And she shot that deer and you guys are eating it. Like, is it getting any better than this? No. You introduced something to this thing that you love. You have deep passion for. They get to experience. You see them get lit up. I mean you've done that so many times. Yeah. I'm sure.

5 (2h 53m 54s):
Oh, I want, I wanted to take Steve on that hunt. I think I mentioned that to you. Yeah,

4 (2h 53m 57s):
We did a text about

5 (2h 53m 58s):
That. Yeah. That was, I just

4 (2h 53m 59s):
So I missed out.

5 (2h 53m 60s):
You missed out. It's, you're done. That's it. But no, I just, especially that one because that's Oregon Blacktail, which I grew up hunting in western Oregon. So I really love sharing, you know, the small little logging community, the badass loggers there that are tough as hell. Just that little western Oregon vibe. I love sharing that. But then she also killed a big four by four buck with the I guards just this old, big old buck. and it was then we, you know, Of course packed it out as steep logging unit. Then we cooked it up the next morning. It definitely, the highlight, I killed quite a few animals this year. None better than that.

3 (2h 54m 40s):
That was the highlight.

5 (2h 54m 41s):
I didn't kill it. Yeah. but it was just that experience. It's, yeah. There's nothing, you know, and my kids, I took Truit the same. He killed a buck down there too this year. So Yeah. It's a, you know, you get to where, and I, I said I was very competitive, very tunnel vision. It was all about me. And that, you know, with age, that changes and then you're like, no, I want to, I wanna share this with people. Yeah. So it's,

3 (2h 55m 5s):
Well, if you don't do that, how are they gonna find out? And one of the things that you've talked about so many times, Steve, is the barrier to entry for someone who's like, they're thinking about hunting. Like, I thought about it for years. My wife used to go crazy 'cause I would be at home watching Spirit of the Wild. She's like, what the fuck are you watching? Why are you watching Dead Nugent? And I'm like, I wanna figure out how to do this someday. And then I watch your show Casey

4 (2h 55m 28s):
Plays, I gotta be here. Casey plays Fred Bear. Yeah.

3 (2h 55m 31s):
Well when

5 (2h 55m 31s):
You, the Whack Master,

3 (2h 55m 32s):
When I first saw your, your original show, the Wow Within, right. That was what it was from. Yeah. When I first saw that show, I was like, oh, I wanna talk to that guy. And that was before MeatEater even started. And then when you invited me to come hunting with you, I was like, oh, finally, now I can figure this out. But if it wasn't for that, having someone like you to show me how to do it and to take me out and to, to have you be my guide, like, fuck, what are the, what are the odds?

4 (2h 55m 57s):
I'll see people making like, like young hunters or people just starting to hunt now. I'll see 'em make just these like, horrible decisions, you know? Yeah. We're like, oh, I think I'm going up there in the morning. And on one hand I'll, on one hand I'll feel like bad. I'll be like, oh my God, it's a horrible idea. On the other hand, I'm like, dude, yes. Like, that's all the stuff that you like, that I had to do. and I was figuring anything out. Yeah. Like, hats off to you, dude. Yeah. You're gonna get up and go like, you don't know it, but you're getting up early. You're gonna go try something. I recognize it as the dumbest thing you could possibly do. But like, that's, that's how you do it, man. That how you learn, that's how you learn. Learn. So that barrier to entry, like some people are have the for mental fortitude.

4 (2h 56m 38s):
Well, they're just gonna take it on. Yeah. And then some people are gonna sit and be like, eh, I'm not, you know, I don't have it in me to really figure this hard ass thing out.

3 (2h 56m 48s):
Well, until you've experienced success, it's very difficult to justify the work. And if it seems insurmountable, and for a lot of people that don't have someone like you or someone like you taking them out, it's, it's almost insurmountable because there's so many things you have to learn. It's not intuitive. It's something that you have to figure out through trial and error, or you have to read a lot or watch a lot of videos and absorb all that information. Yeah.

5 (2h 57m 10s):
Mostly it's, you have to learn it yourself, you know? Yeah. 'cause you, you can read, reading helps, watching, helps, talking helps. You just got, just as you said, that's how they learn. They get out there, they do it themselves, and then they're like, God, well that didn't work. Now what? Yeah. And that's, that's how you learn. That's what's hard about hunting with that barrier to entry is that experience accumulates slow for most people. Yeah. Yeah. Like when I was hunting back home, I would get a week for elk. That's all. So a week, a year, and that's it. You know, so I had to go out, take photos, try to be out there amongst 'em, learn body language, learn what they like to do. And that takes years so when somebody comes in late Yeah.

5 (2h 57m 53s):
They can't shortcut that experience part. We were, we were lucky to grow up doing it. And now we're in a position where we can share it, but it's, it's tough if you didn't

4 (2h 58m 1s):
Grow up doing it.

3 (2h 58m 2s):
Yeah. There's a few places people will teach you how to do it. You know, Jesse Griffith has that school, what is it called? New school style. What is it? What is it again? His school. But he has a literal, like limited,

4 (2h 58m 15s):
It's not the new school, but that's in it space in the nail of

3 (2h 58m 18s):
It. So he has Jamie pulled up, but he, but he has a program where he'll take you, he'll teach you how to shoot, he'll teach you how to hunt, he'll teach you how to butcher, teach you how to cook the whole thing. He'll take you through the whole process. That's so valuable. How, if there's something that you can do. And especially with a renewable resource like pigs. Yeah. New school of traditional

4 (2h 58m 36s):
Cook. That's right. And an AER is like a, like a somewhat contradictory Yeah. New school of traditional

3 (2h 58m 40s):
Cooking. But that's so valuable where someone can take you through the whole process. And there's not a lot of that available, unfortunately. And even if it, if it was available, it would be very difficult to screen applicants to make sure that it's even worth taking your time. Because if you got a guy and you know, he's 50, 60 pounds overweight and got a bad knee, and you wanna take him on a mule deer hunt in the mountains, like, we can't really do this. Yeah. Like, you're gonna have to lose weight, you're gonna have to get in shape. You're gonna have to figure out a way to be able to get to where this animals

4 (2h 59m 12s):
Are get or get into something different.

3 (2h 59m 14s):
Yeah. This is not an easy task.

4 (2h 59m 16s):
I think the true, like there's an area and I don't think everyone needs to get there. There's an area of expertise or a level of expertise that I think is a, is admirable. And it's, you know, you, you learn how to hunt some particular spot and that's great. Right. You learn how to hunt some particular spot and that's your hunting spot. And you get it really figured out. And that's a wonderful journey. And that, that's really good. I think that, that getting to the point where you get that place and thing that you're comfortable at, and then you go and be like, okay, I'm gonna take whatever it is I learned there and try to apply it to something totally different and, and figure that different thing out. Right. And get where you're good at these spots and these things, but you become good at like deciphering, figuring out and being able to move into totally new things and, and carry that cumulative knowledge into these new spots.

4 (3h 0m 9s):
Like that becomes pretty fun. Yeah. And, and that's, that's a high, I regard that as being not a, not better, but a high level of expertise.

3 (3h 0m 18s):
Well, there's also variables that maybe some people that are successful in other disciplines don't recognize as they enter into this new world. There's different parameters. Like for instance, if you got someone who's a successful whitetail hunter that hunts out of a tree stand, they're a really good archer, but they're used to shooting a 65 pound bow with like a 350 grain arrow. And they're used to shooting these animals that are fairly small and, and then you take them on a elk hunt. Yeah. And you're like, Hey, that's set up this three, three blade mechanical with a 60 pound bow. And you're shooting a fucking enormous animal with huge bones. Like, you might not even get through the ribs with that thing.

3 (3h 0m 58s):
You might center a rib and that's a wrap. Like you have to recognize you're dealing with a totally different thing and you're, you're not, you can't just be weak. You have to be physically strong. You have to be capable of making it to, you're not gonna sit in a tree stand like you've gotta change everything about the way you approach it. Yeah. You got very successful with this one aspect of this thing. But you, you've got a whole new thing now you have to apply it to, and if you don't, you're gonna wound animals, you're gonna have problems or you're gonna just not be successful at all.

4 (3h 1m 29s):
I remember the first time I went out with a guy deep drop in for swordfish. So I watched a guy catch a couple swordfish in 1300 feet of water. and I realized I knew nothing about fishing. Do you know what I mean?

3 (3h 1m 41s):
That's so specific, you

4 (3h 1m 42s):
Know? Oh my god, man. Like all the shit you think, you know, that you go out there and you're like, you're not gonna catch a fish out here. You can't do that. Yeah.

3 (3h 1m 51s):
But nowadays with fishing, you know, Steve, I sent you that thing the other day where the guy had, he had a screen on his phone and there was some sort of a camera attached to his line.

4 (3h 2m 2s):
It's like li Oh, that guy. Yeah. That was crazy.

3 (3h 2m 5s):
Wild. So this guy cast out and he's looking at a screen with like a lid over it to shield the sun on his rod. As he's reeling, he's seeing the fish coming towards his

4 (3h 2m 17s):
Bait. Yeah. Not like ice fishing with a camera, but he's like, yeah, he has a camera wa on a, he's casting and has a camera watching fish interact with his bait. Wow. While he does a retrieve,

5 (3h 2m 29s):
Huh. Yeah.

4 (3h 2m 30s):
And I didn't really get, that was cool.

3 (3h 2m 31s):
I'd never seen that before. I was like, this is crazy. But the, the things that I sent you, the ice fishing guys, they, they're nuts, man. They got fucking cameras down there and like a, a fully heated shack where they're watching television

4 (3h 2m 45s):
And I was so my kid don't wanna ice fish without the camera.

3 (3h 2m 48s):
Well, it's an added element. You see the fish, you're like, this is so cool. You can watch them sneak up to it, you know,

5 (3h 2m 56s):
Is Yeah. That's, it reminds me there's something new in hunting now, which I, I don't like, but it's that the heat seeking binoculars. I think it's heat seeking. Oh,

3 (3h 3m 6s):
Thermal. Thermal

5 (3h 3m 7s):
Thermals. Yeah. There's thermals. And to me I don, I

4 (3h 3m 12s):
Don't Yeah, you can't use it for big game hunting.

5 (3h 3m 14s):
No, it's not. There's some states where it's not

3 (3h 3m 16s):
Regulated.

5 (3h 3m 17s):
It's not regulated. They, they don't even mention it. No,

4 (3h 3m 19s):
No, no. You can't. But Yeah. But you can't get outside of illegal shooting hours.

5 (3h 3m 22s):
No. But to find them. Oh,

4 (3h 3m 24s):
I see what you're saying. Are there states where you allowed to find game with thermal?

5 (3h 3m 28s):
I think it's not, it's just not disallowed.

4 (3h 3m 31s):
Yeah. I got

5 (3h 3m 32s):
It. It's not addressed.

3 (3h 3m 32s):
Well, there's an an issue now where they're banning drones that use thermal for recovery.

5 (3h 3m 38s):
But I don't, I don't like,

4 (3h 3m 39s):
Because you scout the, the argument is you scout too. of course

3 (3h 3m 42s):
You could be if you're a piece of shit.

5 (3h 3m 43s):
But like, what guys could conceivably do, like in Oregon, as I'm talking about in western Oregon, glassing those big, huge logging units and finding deer is an art I mean it is hard to pick those things up. But if you could just put, you know, and find the thermal register of it. Sure. They're Oh, it's right there. You know that. And that's like a big part of killing a buck. I don't like that. I, I, that needs to be regulated

4 (3h 4m 6s):
For sure. Giannis was just hunting in Latvia. Mm. And in Latvia they get out in a clear cut middle of the day, whatever, they're gonna get out in a clear cut and put a thermal up and be like, Nope, hop back in the car and roll out. Yeah.

5 (3h 4m 17s):
Don don't. Wow.

4 (3h 4m 19s):
And he's like, I can't believe you guys could, you know, I can't believe you guys do that. Like, I can't believe you don't do it. Yeah,

3 (3h 4m 24s):
Right. It works stupid.

4 (3h 4m 26s):
Yeah. I I know. Well,

3 (3h 4m 27s):
While was in Scotland, there's stag where we were at I was like, this is amazing. And they, they, they had a hunting ranch out there and they said, do you wanna hunt? and I said, do you guys use rifles? And he goes, yeah. I go, can you use a bow? Can I bring a bow? And they go, no, we don't allow it in the country. And I was like, what?

4 (3h 4m 45s):
Yeah.

3 (3h 4m 46s):
Like, you don't allow, can you watch me shoot first? Like said

4 (3h 4m 50s):
We to, I talked to the governor, we

3 (3h 4m 51s):
Set up a target at a DR said and show you like, this is I know what I'm doing. Yeah. Like, let me do this. Mm. You can't.

4 (3h 5m 0s):
Yeah. I think, was it South Africa there was like quite a lobbying effort to allow archery equipment. Really?

3 (3h 5m 9s):
Yeah. Yeah. Wow.

5 (3h 5m 11s):
Yeah. They, there's some countries over there that didn't have it. I, I don't, can't, I think Ted Ngel was involved in something about having to show the, the how lethal it was before they would allow

4 (3h 5m 23s):
It. Yeah. It was a lethality concern. Yeah.

5 (3h 5m 24s):
Yeah. No, yeah. and I don't know what it was for don don't know if it's for Elephant or something like that.

3 (3h 5m 28s):
But isn't that always the case when people just don't know and you think of an an a bow and arrow, you're like, well that's not as you use a gun. Stupid. You know, it's so much more effective. You know, when I have that conversation with people that are non-hunters and they're like, why do you use a bow and arrow? I go, it says you're more connected. It's, it's quiet. It's like, there's so many things about it that are just, it's more difficult to do. It requires more discipline and concentration. It's more rewarding when you do it. They're like, isn't a rifle better though? Oh yeah. Why don't, are you trying to get meat? Yes. Yeah.

4 (3h 6m 0s):
Support, you support spear hunting. Like I have no, I have no, I have zero problem, zero problem with spear hunting. I don't think it's gonna be a thing that impacts game numbers.

3 (3h 6m 9s):
Impossible. Yeah. I I 100% support it with, with pigs. Yeah. With what? But I think I,

4 (3h 6m 15s):
When I say supported I mean, like, I feel that if you had a regulation, I, I feel that, that if, if, if someone wanted to say, we'd like to open it up that people could hunt with a spear, I would probably generally say Okay. I just, 'cause I don't think that this is gonna be a thing that reduces opportunity. Well,

3 (3h 6m 33s):
You know, you remember the thing that happened in Canada? Oh man. With Josh Bomar. They banned spear hunting because this one controversial moment where it was totally legal, everything he did was totally legal. Yeah. And they

4 (3h 6m 44s):
Just, the thing no one realized because there's things that are legal and they're legal 'cause they're not illegal.

3 (3h 6m 49s):
Right. Right. That's a good point. That's a good point. Yeah. Yeah. I I mean I don't wanna hunt with a spear, but I get it. You know, but I always feel like it's a gimmick. Like when I see someone hide in a tree and they spear a pig,

4 (3h 6m 59s):
They're showing that it can be done. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of a gimmick. I, I, I haven't done it. I can't, I wouldn't, can't picture getting into it by any stretch, but I just don't think it, I I think it hits like traditional for sure. And then I think it's not like, I don't think it's gonna throw off population levels and, and, and lead to like decreased opportunity. No. It's just, I don't think anybody's gonna be like, the spear guys got 'em all right.

3 (3h 7m 28s):
They got all the big bulls like a bowhunter because they're gonna hide in trees.

5 (3h 7m 32s):
Yeah. I mean, even if they wouldn't have made it illegal, who the hell was gonna spear hunt a bear? Right. Besides Josh up there. Right. It's less, it was, it was just, it it caused,

3 (3h 7m 41s):
He needed a real psycho,

5 (3h 7m 42s):
It caused cut such a stir that they had to address it essentially. Yeah. So it's, but yeah, it wasn't gonna have an impact on the population. Well,

3 (3h 7m 50s):
It's, it be, it caused a stir because it was discussed publicly and it was like dis it was a social media thing. and it gets into this weird area where, you know, some people have a, a really hard time with people exploiting hunting on social media because they say that you are, you're kind of like bastardizing this beautiful thing and you're making it just like showing things on Instagram. Just like all the other things that you show off on Instagram, your private jet or your big house or your fucking yachts and shit. Like, you, you, you're making your cheapening this this beautiful moment. Yeah.

4 (3h 8m 25s):
When I was a kid, you had to go down to the local sporting goods store and staple your picture up to the brag board, man. Yeah. Of the community brag board. And you had to go down there to see what all was happening.

3 (3h 8m 35s):
Well it's essentially just a, a limited version of what Instagram is, but

4 (3h 8m 40s):
It's it's a global brag board.

3 (3h 8m 41s):
Yeah. But that's the thing too. It's, you're not getting people that come into that local sporting goods store that don't understand hunting.

4 (3h 8m 47s):
Yeah.

5 (3h 8m 48s):
That's, yeah. No, it, that is, I think that is a big deal because I think and a big deal in that we need to think about how we're presenting things. Yes. You know, where whatever, if you're down at the local sporting, if that's only hunter's pretty much seeing that, just like when you'd write an article, like when I wrote for Eastman's Journal or whatever, that was just hunters. Or if you're an outdoor channel, it's just hunter. No. Nobody besides hunters is watching that now. Everybody's on social media. So I think we just need to be very cognizant of what we're putting up there. Well, you

3 (3h 9m 19s):
Do a fantastic job of that. And you have a very specific protocol you follow, you know, where you'll show photos of the hunt, then you'll show the meat, you know, you'll show harvesting the meat, cleaning the meat, and then eventually you'll show a photo of the animal that you killed. Some

5 (3h 9m 33s):
People. So sometimes I don't even do that. Yeah. Sometimes I just show the whatever. Just because the grip and grins for some people and I have, you know, a lot of people that follow, that don't hunt. They have a hard time with those pictures. Yeah, yeah. And I'm just like, I get it. Whatever you haven't grown up around this, I have to, to me, and people like me, this is part of it. But I understand. I'm just,

3 (3h 9m 57s):
I've never had anybody get mad at me for cooking an elk steak.

5 (3h 9m 59s):
Exactly. And it's just not gonna ha So it's just like, do we need to put the, the grip and grinning up I mean, is it necessary? I don't, I don't care if people do it. I just want them to think about what they're saying when they put it up. How they do it to me. I, I lead up to it. I show the country the animals, the, the journey. Like on this lion hunt, I actually also showed a lion killed a a ca beef calf. Didn't eat any of it. 'cause if it, they killed it in the creek, the lion wasn't big enough to drag it outta the creek, so Oh. Really? Left it and went killed an elk.

4 (3h 10m 34s):
Oh, that's interesting.

5 (3h 10m 35s):
Yeah. Followed the tracks for three miles and I would see the lion go and was sitting behind a tree. All the deer tracks were there, so the lion was hunting could and I shared all that. That's all part of the journey. That's all the cool stuff people. So I say share things like that, and also you can share your kill shot. It's great. But also share also what else stood out from the hunt.

3 (3h 10m 58s):
There's also a problem with hunting TV shows in that you're condensing something that might be seven days of 10 hour days in

4 (3h 11m 5s):
22 minutes. Yeah.

3 (3h 11m 6s):
Yeah. And then people,

4 (3h 11m 8s):
And then you wanna pick the, you wanna pick the interesting 22 minutes. Yeah. It's not like you just, it's not like you randomly pull out segments out of your a hundred hours of footage.

5 (3h 11m 17s):
Right. Yeah. It's, I think it's, that's been a big benefit to tell more of the journey now that, you know, Steve's on YouTube, his videos on YouTube have tons of views, so he's able to explain why the hunt's important, what stood out to you. It's more intellectual approach to it. Whereas you didn't really have time on an outdoor channel show wells. You didn't have time to get into that.

3 (3h 11m 38s):
Some of my favorite shows of yours are MeatEater, you're unsuccessful and I love that you have those, you know, I remember that one where you're getting real introspective about your father. Yeah. And that's like one of my favorite episodes you ever did. and it was just you unsuccessful hunting. And it's like, yeah. That's also a part of it. Like, this is not easy and it's often unsuccessful

4 (3h 11m 59s):
And I, I was always, you know, and was always am always bummed to not get something too, like I'm trying. But we'd be, you know, back, back in the early days, we were making 16 shows, so you weren't gonna, you know, if you went and spent a week busting your ass and you didn't get something, it wasn't, the option wasn't there to, to ditch it. Like we were gonna make something out of it. And in the end it was great. I'm glad we did it. But you know, I, I've never gone in the woods hoping to be unsuccessful. Right. It definitely happens. And you know, I, but I always wished it was otherwise Of course,

3 (3h 12m 36s):
You know? Yeah. But it's just the, the editing it down to 22 minutes, it gives people that are on the outside a completely different perspective. They think it's so easy. Well, you just go I mean, how many times have you heard that if you were a real man, you, you know, you'd go hunt it with a knife or something like that. Yeah. Something stupid. You're Oh, what a coward. Mm. Yeah. You're shooting it from a distance with a rifle.

5 (3h 12m 57s):
And in that 22 minutes too, there's also sponsor obligations when it's on tv. Right. So it's not even 22 minutes of hunting, you know, you have to have the, this tips and tactics brought to you by right nosler, right. Whatever. So it's like you get down to the hunt, you can't really say why the hunt is important to you almost. It's like it doesn't give you time to, to develop that story. So we've, it's a big benefit to us with social media now. We're not, we don't need approval by an editor. We don't need the, the channel to approve how long this thing is. We put it on YouTube and then we can tell the story of the hunt in a more honest and relatable fashion hopefully. And explain why it's difficult and people understand it.

3 (3h 13m 39s):
What kind of restrictions has YouTube put on hunting videos now? Because I know that there, there you can,

4 (3h 13m 43s):
You can push it a little far and get dinged.

3 (3h 13m 46s):
What is it pushing for? The, the kill shot? Is it

4 (3h 13m 49s):
Blood? No ones up being no like blood and, and and skinning shots. Any kind of graphic like, you know, we got, the first ding you hit is you hit a demonetization thing. Right. And then you can hit other levels of dings and there's like a little scorecard, but oddly doing a knee, we had something like, just like a sim examples of doing a necropsy on something just to graphic organs, things like that. Disassembly, that'll get you dinged. You can get demonetization, I believe. There's levels of demonetization you can get around certain firearms issues, but the primary thing is just like gore.

4 (3h 14m 34s):
Mm. Right. But even put in a, in terms of a necropsy, so I'm sure at some level it's like, I'm sure it begins as a AI thing, right? Scouring all this footage and find something that's like bloody and graphic. And at some level it gets elevated. We've argued and gotten our stuff back. You know, if you can get someone's ear and you can get it tested by a person and gotten it back. But that is the primary thing is just, is gore there

3 (3h 15m 1s):
Was talk of them eliminating kill shots?

4 (3h 15m 4s):
I haven't heard that. That could be. I haven't heard that.

3 (3h 15m 6s):
Yeah, I remember. I think that got rescinded. But I think there were some issues. Here it goes. You, you can turn on ads for this content hunting content where there's no depiction of graphic animal injuries or prolonged suffering hunting videos where the moment of kill or injury is indiscernible and no focal footage of how this dead animal is processed for trophy or food purposes. Boy, that's pretty fucking limited.

5 (3h 15m 30s):
Yeah. Well, like for, for me, I had, I had one that was limited in age restriction. So people 18 and under couldn't watch it.

4 (3h 15m 40s):
Was it a firearms infraction or No, no, no. It wouldn't have

5 (3h 15m 43s):
Been firearm. Just archery. But, and, and I don't monetize any of my hunting videos 'cause I just don't even want to deal with, oh, you're killing for fucking profit or whatever the hell. So I'm like, don, don't even, I don't make any money off

4 (3h 15m 54s):
These. You don't turn monetization on.

5 (3h 15m 56s):
No, not for hunting. I do it for my lift run shoot and my podcast. Yeah. But for just the hunting, I'm not ma

3 (3h 16m 2s):
That's a good way to,

5 (3h 16m 3s):
But I still got that, that age restriction because of, they said the gore. Then there was an outfit that, what's his name? Jason, I think it's Sportsman's Alliance maybe. But anyway, they wrote, they appealed it for me. They got it in hold, in touch with YouTube and appealed their decision and got it overturned. So they, for people like me, they, or for like us creators, they will go to go to bat for us.

4 (3h 16m 32s):
And yeah, oftentimes I've seen cases. I remember our senator and our, our senator in Montana got dinged on one of the social media platforms for having like a picture of him and his wife with a pronghorn. Yeah. And his account got taken down and the minute humans became aware of this, or like the right humans became aware of this, they did like a very quick reversal. Yeah. So the, the way, the way we'll generate look at it with putting up video content is we'll try to avoid, we'll try to avoid demonetization being demonetization, meaning you cross some line.

4 (3h 17m 16s):
Right. But I, but the thing is, I haven't found it to be like, it's not like an owner's process. I feel that it's pretty, if you, if you compare it to other channels of distribution, I have not found YouTube to be like, dramatically over restrictive. Especially compared to any kind of, especially compared to any kinda like network parameter. Right? No, they're not. They're not. They might be bad, but they're not bad compared to anybody else. Right.

5 (3h 17m 44s):
No. And that one, that was Jason Quick who helped me with that. I just remembered his last name. But that one I showed, I killed this bull on San Carlos and I think I showed the lungs or where the arrow hit. Yeah. You know, and that's, that's what got it. and it wasn't, once I appealed it myself, they said, no, we're upholding the restriction. And then they did get it overturned. It took, so it took a couple times, but still it was reasonable. And they took, they had age restrictions on other ones that I didn't even know about, but I didn't notice that the viewership was down and, and so that they lifted all those. So

3 (3h 18m 20s):
It's kind of a weird situation where although there are many, many video platforms, YouTube essentially has an overwhelming majority of people into, into the point where it's almost a monopoly. You know? And if you have things like that that are very valuable to people, like I wanna see where the arrow hits. Yeah. I, I, I like when I see blood pouring out of an animal because I know that that's a lethal shot. That's what you want. Like that it, it might be graphic to some people, but if I, I see a rage hit behind the shoulder on a deer and I see that blood squirting out as soon as a deer starts moving.

3 (3h 19m 0s):
I'm like, that guy got that deer. That's a dead deer. That's what you want. Yeah. Yeah. You know, it doesn't seem, it doesn't seem awful to me. It seems better because that's a lethal shot. That's a successful hunt. That's what you're trying to do to pretend that's not what you're trying to do. Boy, that seems insane. And if you're doing it only to protect the, the ignorant, that seems insane too. It's like you don't have to watch those videos. And if you're gonna allow those videos on the platform, you should allow those videos to be a realistic depiction of what everybody's trying to do. Which is a lethal shot on an animal. And if you hit a lethal shot on an animal and you hit it in the vitals and you use a, a a, a strong arrow with a great broad head, you're gonna get blood squirting out of it.

3 (3h 19m 45s):
'cause that's what you want. The last thing you wanna see is an arrow hit an animal and no blood comes out. Yeah. I mean that I mean, and that's okay.

5 (3h 19m 54s):
Well, and meanwhile they show people, people getting killed, I think on YouTube. Don't they?

3 (3h 19m 58s):
I do not know. I know. Think they showed 'em being, they pull those, I think they try to being injured. Yeah.

4 (3h 20m 3s):
Lot of injuries. Injuries. Well you see it on the war videos, you see it blocked out or, or obscured. Yeah. The, some of the, the, the hunting networks used to have self-imposed restrictions that they felt were cleaning up hunting for the sake of non-hunters looking in. and it, and it was counterproductive because they would have a restriction that they didn't wanna see raw meat. They didn't wanna see bare bone. And so it created this sense of, like, when I say counterproductive, if you were looking in and on it watching it, there was no acknowledgement of what happens to it later, which created the sense that maybe nothing.

4 (3h 20m 51s):
Right. You know, and it, and then that, that eventually corrected itself and they're like, oh, some level of gore right in, in parentheses, like some level of gore is helpful in explaining the process. But the instinct early on, the instinct was to not have any of that. Right. And, and people would get dinged for raw meat. They'd get dinged for like a bone sticking out of a backpack.

3 (3h 21m 14s):
One of the things I really appreciated about your shows, particularly early on, is that you have a lot of segments where you cook the meat and there's a lot of shows where they don't cook the meat. Yeah.

4 (3h 21m 23s):
That was our, that was our trademark dude. Yeah.

3 (3h 21m 25s):
It's a big difference. Yeah. Big difference. I mean it's, it's much more enjoyable. Like, one of my favorite videos is you, when you shot that black bear that had the blueberries. Sure. Yeah. And you, you're watching like, you're explaining like, look how purple this fat is. 'cause this thing's just been gorging on blueberries, then you're cooking it and eating it. Like that to me is like, that's a, a full range of what the experience of hunting is about. I wish more people would do that.

4 (3h 21m 50s):
I find now looking back on those days, it's like I sometimes look back and it'd be like, it was just shocking that that wasn't, it's shocking that that wasn't out there more. Yeah. At the time, you know, it was like, it's something like so simple and elemental and it was just, it was surprise people.

3 (3h 22m 6s):
It was almost non-existent. Yeah.

4 (3h 22m 8s):
Surprised

3 (3h 22m 8s):
People You didn't on those outdoor channel shows, you very, very rarely saw someone cooking the animal that they killed.

5 (3h 22m 15s):
It was, I think it was kind of assumed just because of how we grew up and in magazines they never talked about that. You never read an article where they talked about how they processed the meat or ate it.

4 (3h 22m 26s):
They'd have a recipe. A finished Yeah, a finished like a recipe with, with shit you take out of the freezer. But there was, there was an ignored part.

5 (3h 22m 34s):
There was Right. The old Fred Bear videos, you know, he, Fred Bear was making videos way before we ever started hunting. The meat was never shown. So it was just kind of like, that's just how we learned then. Steve. A brilliant idea. MeatEater. Yeah. I mean MeatEater right there. You got the fork, you got the forks on the fricking moose. Yeah. So it's like That was the best decision ever because it addresses that part of it. Yeah. Which was kind of like, it's impressive that you foresaw what might be a, a challenge for us, you know, explaining hunting. So that was just like brilliant to come up with that. but it to, to our defense, that was never a thing.

5 (3h 23m 17s):
We, we just knew I mean. I read this old article, my first deer, I killed that spike that I said when I was 15, I wrote this little thing for the school newspaper and said I got 37 pounds of hamburger from it. and I, I don't know, I don't know why because I don know why I said that. That's

4 (3h 23m 32s):
A great school newspaper entry.

5 (3h 23m 34s):
Yeah. Yeah. Because nobody ever talked about it, but it

4 (3h 23m 37s):
Was like, that's hilarious.

5 (3h 23m 38s):
Yeah. It was funny. I said something like, my mom was happy because we got 37 pounds. It's probably all we got off that deer. It was pretty small. Yeah.

4 (3h 23m 45s):
You

5 (3h 23m 46s):
Know, but, but yeah, so I mean it's, yeah, it has changed

3 (3h 23m 50s):
And it certainly opens people's eyes up that are not on hunters and it's, I think, I think it's a very valuable addition to this whole video depiction of what hunting is all about. You know? And also you're a really good cook, so you'd get like really like involved and make some pretty cool recipes and you know, you cook for your staff and you had episodes like that that where you cooked all these different preparations of different wild game. It's cool. Yeah. It adds to it.

4 (3h 24m 18s):
Well, thank you. Appreciate it.

3 (3h 24m 20s):
Well listen, let's wrap it up. Let's bring this Bad boy home. Meat Eaters available. It's essentially only online now, right? Yep.

4 (3h 24m 28s):
Yeah. Well we have, you know, like the fast channels and, but yeah, you can find everything we do on YouTube.

5 (3h 24m 34s):
So I just wanna say to me, huge honor, you guys are the voices of hunting. It's like,

3 (3h 24m 39s):
What? You're the voice of hunting bitch. Shut the

5 (3h 24m 41s):
Fuck up. No, you, I, you guys are so well versed in how to discuss it and how to explain it as

3 (3h 24m 46s):
Are you.

5 (3h 24m 46s):
It's, it's like I, I am honored to be here and do, to have a podcast with Steve. We've done a lot of podcasts, but to have all three of us here, it means a lot to me. So thank you. Well listen,

3 (3h 24m 56s):
Well that, that's great. Thank you man. It means a lot to me. You two are the main reason why I got into hunting 100%. And without you taking me out to shoot that one mule deer that sits proudly on that table. It's changed my life. Both of you did. Thanks man. Both of you did. Appreciate you. Love you too.