0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast, Check out

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night, All day,

3 (13s):
CNN At one point in time when Bourdain had his show on, they were doing some very interesting things they were trying to do. Shows not just the news. Right. So they had no, no. Reservations was the best one of them. Where they had, you know, they just told Anthony Bourdain, just be you and just do what you did. Do your best version of your show. And they really just got outta the way and it was fucking amazing. Yeah.

4 (37s):
Yeah. So they got outta his way to let him be the best of himself.

3 (40s):
They figured out how to do that. You know, Kamal ba had a really good show, too. Is that show still on? I don't think so. What was that show called? I'm sorry. I forget the name of these shows. But w Kamal Baal was really good at being like, calm. He, he's Shades of America. Shades of United, shades of America. Really good at being calm. Like talking to like KKK people. And he's black and he's a comic, but he is just like a very nice guy. Yeah. He's a very nice guy. Like genuinely nice guy in real life. And so when he is doing his show, even when he is confronted by the most ignorant racists, and he, he can have conversations with them and then, and you know, they're like, well, you're not like the others.

4 (1m 24s):
Well, that's the best kind of journalism, you know, you, you got to Yes. You can properly immerse yourself in those worlds. Yeah.

3 (1m 30s):
And CNN did that for a while. You know, they had that other show. Was it Radical with that one gentleman who Za Alon? Is that his name? That was another good show. They did some interesting stuff. They did like quite a few interesting shows where they were just shows it wasn't what it is now, which is this like Bazar version of News TikTok. Oh, right. Just grabbing you with everything that's gonna terrify you every day. And there's so much to terrify you from about today, you know?

4 (2m 8s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's, they, they seem to have lost the art of storytelling

3 (2m 11s):
Way. Yeah. It's very unfortunate. So, ladies and gentlemen, we started this podcast after a long conversation about Anthony Bourdain, but it felt like we were already rolling, so let's just roll into it. I really enjoyed you trigonometry. Oh, thank you. And that's why I wanted to talk to you here, because it's just, I think your book is The Status Game, that's

4 (2m 31s):
Right. Yeah.

3 (2m 32s):
And I think what's really interesting about what you're, you're talking about mechanisms that make people understand, like behavior patterns in a way, instead of just accepting them, you know? 'cause I think a lot of people fall into accepting behavior patterns, but what you're, what you're showing is like these status games that human beings play, they're sort of wired into our, our being and we don't recognize them. They can get hijacked by far Right. Movements or far left movements, or a lot of different things can happen that can really screw your life up. Yeah, yeah. If you get hijacked by these just normal mechanisms of human thinking.

4 (3m 14s):
That's right. That's right. So I, I think sort of the general thesis is that the humans want two things. They want connection into groups, and then once they're in the group, they want status. So, so, so, you know, it's not enough to feel like we're a Christian. We have to be a good Christian. Right. And that means following certain rules. And, and, and that's what, that's what brains just wanna do. That, that brains don't really care about what's true. Brains are always asking this question, who do I have to be and what do I have to believe in order to earn connection and status? Yes. And we're all vulnerable to this stuff. Yes. And that's how people end up believing fucking crazy things because the brains just believing what it has to believe. I've

3 (3m 53s):
Seen it with people that get what, what you call audience capture. Yeah, absolutely. Where their audience, they find they get some love. You can only, if you're doing it politically, you can only do it once. It's a dangerous move. It's like changing genders. Like you can't go male to female and the back's male. Again, it's fucking, it's too complicated a one shot deal. Yeah. So you got one shot. If you start out a liberal, you're a lifelong liberal, and then at 36, all of a sudden you become like the most hardcore right wing Republican. Like, that seems like I Well, what did you believe before? And what happened? Did you take mushrooms? Did you fall in your head?

4 (4m 29s):
Did

3 (4m 29s):
Something happen? Yeah. Well, you just radically change your ideology. Or did you get captured by the idea of being accepted with much more vigor by the other side? Like, that's one thing that they really do enjoy when someone bails on the other side. And then again, you can only do it once, but you get like really embraced.

4 (4m 49s):
That's right. And, and, and the more you embrace, the more you believe. And, and Yes. Yeah. I mean, there's this concept that I write about that I call it active belief. Like there are loads of beliefs that we have. Like how long is the Mississippi Ripper? You know, what, how do you, what, what is coffee? Like we don't argue about these beliefs, but there are certain categories of belief that, that possess us. And these are the beliefs that that, that we form our identity around. And they're beliefs that we plug our status into. So, you know, like if you're a Christian, it's like, I believe Jesus died and in three days later got up and, and as I said, you know, like, these beliefs are kind of dangerous 'cause they take us over.

4 (5m 30s):
It is not enough just to believe them passively. You have to act them out with your life. Mm. And so that, these are the beliefs that drive things like the Satanic panic, cult movements, communism, Nazism. These are beliefs that sort of possess people and take them over. It's like a parasite. They're kind of scary things. But as I said, you know, we are all vulnerable to these kind of active beliefs.

3 (5m 50s):
Yeah. I, I am fascinated by cult documentaries. And I was talking to my friend Todd. We were, were talking about wild, wild country. And we both said the same thing. God, in the beginning it looked awesome in the beginning. They were having so much fun. Yeah. Yeah. and I, think of myself at 21 and I, I had no real like, confidence in my view of the world. Mm. I had, no, I was 21. I was a, a young dummy. Yeah. I did not know, you know, what was correct and what was incorrect. I I, I had a general sense. My family was very left wing.

3 (6m 30s):
We grew up, my parents were hippies in San Francisco. So I had sort of an ideology attached to that, but I had no idea how anything in the world worked. Yeah. And if I ran into the wrong yoga teacher,

4 (6m 45s):
No, but that's it. But, but that, but that's how humans work, you know, with this tribal animal. Yeah. And we, and, and nobody has any idea how the world works until they plug into a group. And the group has its stories that it tells about how the world works. Every group has its model of what a hero is. Yeah. And this set of beliefs a hero has. And, and once we've plugged into that group, we be, you know, we orient ourselves towards becoming that Yes. That person. And, you know, culture interesting. 'cause culture, like all human groups are kind of cults but looser. So, so every human group is a status game in the sense that it's a, a group of people who believe the same things. And there's sort of rules for being part of that group. And the more the, the better you become at following those rules and, and becoming its ideal of self, the higher you rise up that status game.

4 (7m 33s):
The only visit between cult and a religion and a business and a political group is just that it's much tighter. So the rules are much stricter. Like there's a zillion rules, like, you know, I've written before about what they call the, the the, there there was the, what was the cult that they cut their, they castrated themselves.

3 (7m 51s):
Yeah. Heaven's gate.

4 (7m 52s):
Heaven's gate. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. And they had rules even about like how much toothpaste you're allowed to put in your, your toothbrush. They had a, they had a rule about exactly how, how scrambled eggs were to be cooked. And the rule was dry but not burnt. So there was a rule about how much bar water you put in your bathtub. And, and was

3 (8m 9s):
The leader called, was he castrated as well?

4 (8m 14s):
No, he wasn't surprisingly enough. Really? Yeah. They were called tea and dough. And that guy there is tea. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (8m 20s):
Just, just imagine you are so low in your life that you think that's the guy that has all the answers.

4 (8m 27s):
Mo, that's a Yeah.

3 (8m 28s):
Yeah, yeah. Is that a tribal thing? This is what I've always assumed that that's just some holdover from when we were a part of groups of 150 people that needed a leader. And generally that leader would be some old warlord. He's probably like 35, like, you know, back then, but like had gone through a lot and was a strong leader. Was someone that you admired as a leader. And maybe in, in these tribal times that's baked into our DNA and when someone comes along and speaks confidently. Yeah. I am never confident. Yeah. I'm never confident about if, if you're so confident about all these thoughts and about where, what life is about and where we're going and what awaits us.

3 (9m 8s):
And if you follow these rules, God, that's so confident. I'm not that confident. So I could get sucked in. Yeah. Any human could get sucked in, but is that what it's from? Is it from tribal times?

4 (9m 19s):
Yes and no. So one of the really surprising things about tribes, the tribes in which we evolved is, is that the idea of the big man is a bit of a myth. So, so they were kind of leaderless, like leaders would bubble up by consensus when say we wanted to solve a particular problem to do with hunting, then the best hunters would be deferred to. And what do you think? So the big, at

3 (9m 37s):
Some point in time they became leaders. I mean they've been leaders for so long

4 (9m 40s):
When we settled down. So

3 (9m 42s):
When was that? Like agriculture days?

4 (9m 43s):
Yeah. That was about 11,000 years ago. But

3 (9m 45s):
Does, don't you think that's enough to bake it into our DNAI

4 (9m 47s):
I know, I think what is in our DNA is that idea of a stories. So, so, you know, we, we are storytelling animals, we think in stories. Every tribe has its particular story about the world. And so we, we are very good at channeling those stories. And, and, and as I said, every story has its design of what is a hero. And we, we try and become that kind of hero. So, so, so that's that holdover from the, from the, from the tribal day. But more fundamentally is, again, it's that, that brain question of who do I have to be, what do I have to do? Tell me what I have to do in order to achieve connection and status. And that's what a cult does. It's, and that's what a charismatic leader does. It tells you this is what you've got to do, these are the rules.

4 (10m 29s):
This is, you have to, this is who you have to become. And that's really seductive to us subconsciously, because those, those two things of connection and status are so incredibly important to us.

3 (10m 40s):
Yeah. It's, is it, is it something you think should be taught like very early on, it seems like this is information we should get to kids as young as we can. Yeah. So they can recognize these patterns that people fall into.

4 (10m 56s):
Absolutely. I, I've always thought that, that there should be a lesson in school about what is a human, what is the basic operating system manual for a human? And these are the mistakes that humans make. Because as I said, you know, one of the sort of big ideas is that we, we are not particularly interested in the truth. We don't, the truth is, doesn't matter to human brains. What matters is what do I, what, what do I have to believe in order to, for people to like me and respect me? Yeah.

3 (11m 19s):
Well that's why religions like, even radical religions are so intoxicating. Like, you have to be all in, you're part of a very special group and you all love each other like brothers and sisters. 'cause you're part of this group. Yeah. And you can come up with some radical ideas and get people to subscribe to that. Especially if you attach things like death for people who leave.

4 (11m 44s):
Yeah.

3 (11m 44s):
You know? Yeah.

4 (11m 45s):
Yeah. That's

3 (11m 46s):
Right. That's, that's you're operating in some red line territory. Yeah. Like that's a wild group.

4 (11m 52s):
And, and the religions and the cults always do that thing of offering amazing rewards. but it Of course some point in the future. Heaven.

3 (11m 59s):
Yeah.

4 (11m 59s):
It's

3 (11m 60s):
The best spot ever. It's the best ever.

4 (12m 1s):
Yeah.

3 (12m 2s):
And it, the version of heaven differs between how bad the place where you live sucks. Yeah.

4 (12m 7s):
And it's like, I think there's like, there's, there's like eight and a half billion people in the world, and the amount of, I think it's like 500 million atheists. So that just shows you how many Yeah. Just, just how wired we are to believe basically any old shit we're told to believe, as long as it, we feel like it's gonna get a status and secure connection into a supportive group.

3 (12m 27s):
We were, I remember during the suicide bomber days when that was something that was in the news all the time. They talked about 72 virgins and that these gentlemen thought that they were gonna get 72 virgins in heaven. Like, that is so cultural. Yeah. Like if you offered 72 Virgin to a Christian, they'd be like, what the fuck are you talking about? I'm not fucking virgins. You crazy psycho. How old are they? What are you saying? I'm not a pedophile dude. I just like women. Yeah.

4 (12m 53s):
What the fuck?

3 (12m 54s):
You know what I'm saying? It's like, yeah.

4 (12m 56s):
But I'm not sure how I mean, I dunno if that 72 version I think is true. I think they could

3 (13m 0s):
Be like 21-year-old versions that have been saved for this moment by the great one. I, I think, I think that term is not real. I think the term 72 versions is like saying how, how many, you know, how many times have you lost your phone? A fucking million. Yeah. It's like that kind of a, you know, it's not, it's an exaggeration,

4 (13m 16s):
But I think the real pro, I think the real promise there, though, I mean the 72 versions is Yeah. But, but I think the real promise for suicide bombers is again, it's status. It's like, yeah. If you sacrificed your life on behalf of the group's mission, you're a hero. You're like a God. Yeah. And so, so, so that's the promise. And, and again, I think it's a really good example of how human beings value status over their lives. Yeah. I mean, that's how much we value status. We, we, we are the only animal that kills ourself, which is just a weird thing in itself. An animal would voluntarily ends own life. And very often the reason that people will kill themselves is because it's a sudden drop in status. Or they feel completely isolated and alone. So, so it says they're lacking in those essential kind of psychological resources to such an extent that they, you know, end their own lives.

4 (13m 59s):
And, and that's how much we value these things. And suicide bombers are another manifestation of that. Like Yeah. Like, if you are gonna consider me a hero, and if Mohamed is gonna consider me a hero, strap me out, brother. You know, that, that, that, that, that's how much that, that's how crazy we become about these, these social rewards. God,

3 (14m 18s):
That is such an insane belief. It's so insane. And when the, the most evil thing is when you hear about them talking kids into doing it.

4 (14m 27s):
Yeah.

3 (14m 30s):
You know, a young child, you know, you're getting a I mean, what is the youngest suicide bomber they've ever used?

4 (14m 37s):
I don't know.

3 (14m 38s):
Just the idea that you can buy into it so much that you're willing to let your children go do that.

4 (14m 47s):
Yeah. but it,

3 (14m 47s):
It's wild.

4 (14m 49s):
It it's, i I it's evil if you think it's this kind of calculating kind of mathematical algorithm of advantage. But but, but they sincerely believe it. Yes. They, they really believe it's true. Right. I mean, you know, I've been, as a, when before I was an author as a journalist, I've been meeting kind of crazy people, including Nazis as part of my journalistic career. That's one of the things that always strikes me is that they, they really believe it. This crazy stuff. Oh, they believe

3 (15m 16s):
It this stuff.

4 (15m 16s):
They believe it. So, so it's not evil in the sense that they, that they're doing anything calculating by talking their children to being suicide bombers. They think they're doing something heroic. Yes. They think they're doing something amazing. Yes. As did the Nazis add, as did the communists. Yeah.

3 (15m 29s):
As yeah. As did the kkk. Yeah. People, they can fall into belief structures and they, they don't necessarily have to make sense, but if they find enough supportive people around them that also believe that then it becomes part of their tribe identity. Yeah. and it can get, it could be really stupid. Really stupid. We're fucking way more vulnerable than we like to believe. That's one of the things that I was saying, like when I watch those cult documentaries, part of me is like, thank God I didn't run into those people. Thank God. Yeah. Yeah. They would've got me.

4 (15m 59s):
And when and when they look at the psychology of people that are vulnerable to falling into cults, it's very often people that have struggled to fit into the status games of ordinary life. Yeah. So they've got, the family hasn't worked. The job hasn't worked. Exactly. The hobbies haven't worked. So they've got no identity. They've got no tribe. So they're really vulnerable to these cults, which, because what cults offer is absolute certainty. Yeah. If you cook your scrambled eggs this way, if you only put two inches of water in your bath, you're gonna, the, the, the, you know, the, the UFOs will come down and they're gonna take you to the level above that. That's what they were offering to you though, the level above human

3 (16m 34s):
Wear. The Nikes though, remember you have to wear the purple Nikes.

4 (16m 36s):
Yeah. But that's right. Yeah. And there's this crazy memoir of one of one, one of the guys who was in this group who he cut, he, he didn't, he didn't cut his own balls off. He left before the ball cutting. But he was, but he was jealous. Like, like he was jealous. He wanted to have his balls cut and there was only, there was only one person that could have it done in the beginning. and I had to, they flipped a coin and he was really annoyed that he lost the coin flip.

3 (16m 60s):
Oh my God.

4 (17m 0s):
But what was interesting about his memoir was he said that people talk about brainwashing in cults and people talk and people talk about how we were forced to follow these rules, but we wanted to follow the rules. Like not following the rules would be like being a NASA astronaut and just not caring about how the space shuttle works. You know? So, so, so, so, so they're not, they don't consider themselves brainwashed. They consider themselves Well, they're just an a status game. Yeah. Like, like any other status game. It's just a very, very strict one. Right.

3 (17m 27s):
Well that's why, you know, one of the fascinating things about some cults is that they use very Bazar language and that they all agree to it. Yeah. They have like specific terms that they say like, doesn't Scientologists, they'll call people. They have like an abbreviation for someone who's like a hostile person. What is it that they do? Because I remember someone was, someone was explaining to me, someone who left the church was explaining to me how like if someone would be hostile, you have like a very specific way you describe them. Yeah. Yeah. And that they all do it in the group. And it's like suppressive persons. Yeah. Suppressive persons. Yes. You're a suppressive person or potential trouble source. Dude, I ordered Dianetics in like 1994.

3 (18m 9s):
I had just moved to LA and I thought it was a self-help book. I was like, alright, yeah. Fucking look at your brain's gonna explode. Yeah. Yeah. You gotta get your shit together. Look at all these people that are succeeding on dietetics. You know, I was 26 or whatever I was, so I ordered this book and they've never stopped sending me things. Oh no. I mean they fucking never stopped sending me things. Was

4 (18m 28s):
There ever a point when you thought, hang on a minute, this is quite interest? No.

3 (18m 31s):
Alright. No, no. Once I realized it was Scientology I was like, oh, Dianetics is Scientology. Yeah. I was like, okay. But then part of me was like, damn, a lot of these Scientologists are doing really well in Hollywood. Like, maybe that's a good cult to join. Yeah. Maybe if they just let me be me. 'cause it seems like that was part of it. There was a big allure of how many successful people were following that religion. I mean some of the most successful actors. Tom Cruise is one of the most successful actors of all time. And he's literally the poster boy for that.

4 (19m 4s):
Yeah, that's right. I i, I, it's, somebody was saying to me the other day that they thought that actors were particularly susceptible to Scientology because they've got this weird, they don't really have an identity actors. They, they were always sort of slipping into everybody. Different people's identities. I thought that was all interesting. Especially if you're really

3 (19m 19s):
Theory. Yeah,

4 (19m 20s):
Yeah, yeah.

3 (19m 21s):
Yeah. You're probably lose who the fuck you are. Yeah. Who am I? Am I Rocky? Am I the mission impossible

4 (19m 25s):
Guy? Yeah. Yeah. Well, well, when they're walking around, everybody treats them that way. Like I'm sure they treat Stallone like he's rocky and,

3 (19m 31s):
You know. Yeah. You gotta give respect to Tom Cruise though, because Tom Cruise is like 60 years old and he still does his own stunts. Yeah. Including jumping on motorcycle off a cliff. Yeah. That's how much he believes in this stuff.

4 (19m 45s):
Yeah. But that, but that's, but that's why these, these groups are kind of functional as well. It's like, I kind of have a weird kinda sympathy. Like what, what I grew up in a very strict Catholic household with very strict Catholic parents. and I was very, I hated it. I was very rebellious as a teenager and I guess in my twenties and thirties I was very, very atheist and, you know, hated religion. But, but then I kind of did a lot of this research and I and when you, once you accept that what humans need to be healthy psychologically and physically is connection and status. You see that, that that's actually what religion provides people. That that's what religion provides my parents. Right, right. Is that they're connected into community and they feel important. Yeah. They feel they're good Catholics because my dad conducts the choir and YY you know, this, that and the other.

4 (20m 27s):
And so that, that, that's invaluable. That's what humans need to survive. And in our, you know, in, in the, in, in the current world, in the huge populations in which we live, it's very hard to feel securely connected. I mean, as you you said, remember the tribes in which we all were very small, like 30 to 50 people. Yeah. So it's quite easy to feel securely connected. It was quite easy in that environment to feel important, like valued by other people. Yeah. I mean probably the, the, the, it was not rare in the tribe to feel in invaluable. Like you're needed. 'cause everybody was needed. There wasn't many people around to find the tubers and catch the rabbits or whatever. But in this day and age, in these huge groups in which we belong to, it's, it's much harder to feel relative status because you're competing with millions of people, especially online.

4 (21m 15s):
So, and I think that's a source of a huge amount of sort of mid misery in the modern world. There's stress sort of, and I Got it. And identity anxiety, you know, identity stress. We, we, we, we, we, we feel really unsatisfied with the amounts of connection and status that we have because we live, we, we exited these fucking massive international tribes. Now,

3 (21m 34s):
I, I think there's another factor and the, the other factors, I think because of the nature of commuting and public transportation and of going to work All day, and then, you know, you know, being under someone else's control most of the day and then commuting home. You, I think we're conversation starved. Yeah. I think the way human beings figure out what's the best way to behave and what's the, the nicest way that we can all get along. What, what makes the most sense is when we talk the most. Yeah. And most of the day you can't really talk most of the day. You can't sit down for a couple hours like this and just say, why do we behave this way?

3 (22m 16s):
Why is there this weird pattern that is so strong? It's so such a tightly cut groove that cutting your balls off and wearing purple sneakers becomes appealing. Like it can fit right in there. Yeah. It seems to be there's like a pathway for this. Yeah. And,

4 (22m 31s):
And and what and and that's how humans communicate is, you know, we, we sit down and we tell stories to each other and, and, and if we

3 (22m 37s):
Don't get to talk

4 (22m 38s):
Yeah, absolutely. We're,

3 (22m 39s):
We're very lucky we get to talk.

4 (22m 41s):
Yeah.

3 (22m 42s):
But most people don't get to talk like this. Yeah. They don't have the time.

4 (22m 45s):
Absolutely. Yeah. A a a and that's to our huge cost. Yes. Like it really, because where do we get the stories from? We get 'em from social media, we get 'em from the news, which is increasingly politicized and hysterical. Yeah. And so we, you know, the outrage goes up. Like

3 (22m 60s):
If you're, if you're a used car salesman and you talk to people, you're bullshitting people All day long. When do you ever turn the bullshit off? Do you know how to anymore you probably become a used car salesman forever. Yeah.

4 (23m 10s):
Well that's what we do. I mean that's, that's a perfect example of how The Status Game work is that used car salesman is a status game. Right. and it has its particular model of self. Right. Which, which we kind of, the brain identifies and turns us into, by

3 (23m 25s):
The way, I should just say there's a lot of very cool used car salesman. Yeah. I don't wanna, it's just a joke. It's like, it's a term. But there, you know, you do know there's a difference between salespeople that are just real friendly folks and then super saily guys and those super saily guys. I'm like, how does that guy turn that off? Like, that's such a bullshit way to talk.

4 (23m 43s):
Yeah. John John Paul Sarra wrote about this, he called it Bad Faith. And he, he was sitting in a cafe in Paris at one time and he was watching the waiter and he realized that the waiter was just behaving like a waiter, like a, like a classic perian waiter. He's going look at his movements and it was, he's just really annoying that John Sarra. So he called it, he's acting in bad faith. He's doing the dance of the waiter. That's not really who he is. Right. He's just, he's just being the waiter. Right. And he said there's the dance of the auctioneer, there's the dance of the used car salesman. Yeah. And, and that's kind of what we do. and I think

3 (24m 11s):
The dance of the strip club dj Yeah.

4 (24m 13s):
And the dance of the member of the cult, you know, like Yeah. Like

3 (24m 16s):
Dance of the lead singer of a rock and roll band. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, and that's,

4 (24m 19s):
That's what, that's what the brain does though. It, it, it, it, it identifies Okay, what group am I in? Yeah. What does a hero look like? Right. I've gotta turn myself into this person.

3 (24m 30s):
Yeah. That was a giant thing in standup to the point where the, the punchline in Atlanta, Georgia had a back green room and people would write on the walls. Yeah. And someone wrote in big letters, quit trying to be hicks.

4 (24m 45s):
That's

3 (24m 45s):
Beautiful. When Jamie tore the place down, he's not this Jamie, Jamie that owns the club to tore the place down. He swore he saved that for me. Oh, I want that little piece of memorabilia. Yeah. Because it was, it was just so, there was so many people that saw Hicks and we're like, God, he's so profound. I don wanna be profound. But You don't have shit to say. You don't even read I know.

4 (25m 3s):
It's like I know. Do we talk about Dennis Leary in this?

3 (25m 6s):
There's no need to. Okay. Yeah. There's no need to, but yeah. Okay. I've said enough about that. Oh,

4 (25m 12s):
Okay.

3 (25m 13s):
But yeah, there's, there's just a lot of that, there's a lot of posturing, you know? Yeah. Like, that's not really how you feel. Yeah. But you see how this is appealing and you see that there's a pattern that seems to be successful and then you just mimic that pattern, mock that pattern.

4 (25m 29s):
Yeah. And, and that's why it's so incredible when someone comes along and does something in that space that's new Yes. But still works. Like, that's like for me, the definition of a Genius that anybody can experiment. Right. But most experiments go wrong. But if you experiment with the form of standup or whatever, if everyone's doing hicks and you come out with something new and it works, that's incredible. Like, that's,

3 (25m 47s):
It's just people are so easily influenced. And when someone is really stunningly good, like there's a David tell problem. Okay. The David tell problem is David tells so good that when you work with him all the time, you start delivering your punchlines like him, but they're not as good as his punchlines. Yeah. And you fucking sound like David tell, but it's, it's not even, they're not like plagiarists. They're just easily influenced people that are starting. They're not good yet. You know what I mean? Yeah. but it don don't you get susceptible to patterns. Yeah. I

4 (26m 18s):
Don't even know if I would say that was easy influence. I think it's just normal. That's how brains work. Yes. You know, they, they, they mimic, they they copy. And

3 (26m 25s):
When guys work together all the time, I see they start making the same sort of similar hand movements on stage. They start doing the same kind of things. but

4 (26m 32s):
It iss the same with writing. If you read a book that you really love, the next day you're turning computer on and you'll be writing in that like a, in a slightly shit version of that style. Well that's what Hunter, it's really annoying.

3 (26m 40s):
Thompson said he did, didn't he write The Great Gatsby over and over and over again just to get a, a sense of the rhythm of the words when he was learning how to write. I believe he did that.

4 (26m 48s):
But I think he also did the book of Revelations, didn't he? Whoa. Yeah. Yeah. Which I thought was amazing because you can really sense that in his writing this kind of apocalyptic madness. My god, I'm sure I read that a similar thing about, I dunno if you he rewrote the rev revelations or whether he, he used to read it over and over again, but I'm sure I remember reading that about Hunter Thompson.

3 (27m 5s):
Yeah. I believe that for sure. Typed out the great casby and farewell to arms Wow. Word for word. A method for learning how to write like the masters. Wow. Incredible. That's, that's how un dedicated,

4 (27m 17s):
That's commitment. Yeah. That's

3 (27m 18s):
Dedicated to it. He's another guy that's like, man, if you just like drank half as much, you'd probably still be around. Yeah,

4 (27m 25s):
Yeah, yeah. Yeah.

3 (27m 26s):
I would've loved to have met him.

4 (27m 29s):
He'd been amazing on this.

3 (27m 30s):
Yeah. At the end though, man, fuck. I remember he did an episode of Conan O'Brien and you couldn't understand a word he was saying. Yeah. and it was so, it's so sad. It's like when you watch an old boxer and they can't talk anymore. Yeah. It's kind of a similar feeling. 'cause like in the early days, like when he was running for sheriff of Pickin County in Colorado, and Aspen I mean he was on fire. He was amazing. He was like at the height of his verbal skill. He was young and and vibrant. And then to see him at the end where he could barely you, you couldn't understand what he was saying. Mm. It was like everything was a slur. It was all this weird, like, he had a bunch of health problems, hip replacements, you know, it was before he killed himself, but not mu much before.

3 (28m 16s):
Yeah.

4 (28m 16s):
And, and, and the suicide tragically almost becomes predictable in a way because again, it's, he was, he had this status, he was this incredible Yeah. Brain. And he knows that he's, he's down here now. And that's intolerable for somebody like that to Yeah. To live with. That's the, that's the tragedy of that. Yeah.

3 (28m 32s):
You gotta manage the biology kids. Yeah. You gotta manage your biology. Yeah.

4 (28m 36s):
And you've gotta manage the decline. I mean, it's the, I think when you've, when you've got as high as, you know, status wise as he has Yeah. It's that level of Genius and then you fit that decline. It's, it is a dangerous place to be. It's

3 (28m 49s):
Also to, it has to be just tied to the alcohol because it, the mind is still the same mind. Like when nine 11 happened, he still wrote a brilliant piece about nine 11. Did you ever you ever see that? No. I don didn't think that Johnny Depp narrated it in the movie. and it was fucking great. He narrated a couple these hunter pieces in the movie and one of them was like, how the sixties? See if you can find that, Jamie. Which one? When Johnny Depp does this, hunter s Thompson na he narrates this, this story about the wave pulling back. It's the wave of culture and the, it's so eloquently, brilliantly written.

3 (29m 31s):
And it's about the hope that he had in the 1960s and how the 1970s came and it all pulled back. Oh yeah. It's a brilliant piece. It's brilliant. Yeah. And it's, it just, this is it.

5 (29m 45s):
Strange memories on this nerve. Wow.

3 (29m 47s):
Isn't that beautiful? Yeah. It was Genius and so accurate.

4 (29m 50s):
Yeah.

3 (29m 51s):
And you know, when we think about the way our world changed four years ago, I mean, it's kind of similar in a way. Like the whole, like, what the fuck happened four years later, you're like, what the fuck happened?

4 (30m 3s):
Yeah. Yeah.

3 (30m 4s):
And I think with us though, there's hope that we'll eventually get to some place of normalcy and, and, and some semblance of peace. But what, what happened in the 1960s is fucking bananas. Yeah. I mean, they, they basically turned this counterculture hippie love movement into Charles Manson and the Manson family and the fucking CIA was dosing people with LSD and they were doing anything they can to stop the anti-war movement. Yeah. Anything they can to stop these hippies and made everything illegal. They made marijuana. Well, marijuana was already illegal, but all the schedule one substances, that's all the sweeping part of the 1970 psychedelic Act that was all about the civil rights movement.

3 (30m 49s):
It was all about, or just arresting people for any kind of protests, any anti-government, anti-war. Let's find these hippies. Everything's illegal. Fuck you go to jail and they put water on it. They just put the fire out.

4 (31m 4s):
Wow. I didn't know that.

3 (31m 5s):
They pulled the, put the fire out on this psychedelic counterculture. That was the 1960s and we paid for it artistically.

4 (31m 12s):
If you look at the 1980s as a fucking disaster. Yeah.

3 (31m 15s):
Well, what happened in the 1980s? It's like these people, all they had was cocaine. Yeah. They're just doing cocaine and alcohol. And the movies are out of control.

4 (31m 23s):
Yeah. I mean the, the, the 1980s. The other thing that changed was Of course was the economy in the 1980s. And that was the, for me, that's the big thing that, that changed like, like, like the, like the economies of the west felt a bits in the, in the 1970s, like before the 1970s,

3 (31m 39s):
The gas crisis. Yeah. Yeah. I think we forget about that. That ruined American automobiles. Yeah.

4 (31m 44s):
And, and then so Thatcher and Reagan Yep. Came up with this neoliberalism idea of increasing competition every, everywhere. Getting rid of the big state, selling off the, you know, privatizing all the national industries, going to war with the unions. And when I was doing my research from my book selfie, I, I was sort of, 'cause I was interested to know like, if you change the rules of the The, Status Game, do we change as a, as a, as a, as a culture, as a, as a bunch of people. and it really does seem like that. Like if you think about who were in the 1960s versus who we were in the 1980s, you go from fuck the man to greed is good, you know? Yeah. We, you know, no, we, we like, and I found this really quite sinister interview from 1981 with Margaret Thatcher, where they're interviewing her about, you know, what are your big plans?

4 (32m 33s):
And she said she was going on about, you know, in the last 30 years, everything have been about the collectivism and getting together and now that we're gonna get rid of all that and increase competition. And she said this thing, she said, the method is economic, but the object is to change the soul. Which is a really like megalomaniac change bond villain thing to say, whoa. But she did do that. They did do that. Like change the soul. Yeah. Like, so, so by, by changing the rules of who we have to be in order to achieve success, they changed who we were. Like we became, you know, as a people, Gordon Gecko, material girl, Madonna, Whitney, Whitney, Houston, the greatest love of all is loving yourself.

4 (33m 16s):
Like we, we became the, you know, this big, as you say, we, we went from pot to cocaine. It was, there was a really interesting study that found in 1983. They were looking at changes in birth names and for generations and generations, babies had been called things like, you know, Alfred and John and Barbara, like all the, the traditional names. But in 1983, suddenly we started naming our kids weird names. 'cause we wanted to our kids to stand out and be a star. And, and, and when you look at the changes in values between like the sixties and the eighties and nineties, suddenly money becomes a dominant value. Celebrity becomes a dominant value. Being good looking becomes a much more dominant value.

4 (33m 58s):
But there were there, there, there was a, a study about 20 years ago, they asked two and a half thousand British under tens, what is the best thing in the world? And these under tens, number one was being a celebrity. Number two is being good looking. Number three was being rich. Like, that's who we've become. Hmm. And, and, and the big change is the economy. Like we've become these kind of neoliberal profit obsessed. Celebrity

3 (34m 23s):
Obsessed. What's number four? Individualists

4 (34m 24s):
I know what number four?

3 (34m 25s):
I, I wanna know why. Yeah. I think 'cause they're young though, right? When you're young, that's what seems like everybody wants.

4 (34m 35s):
But not in the sixties and seventies. Like when they did a sim when they did a similar study in the sixties, I think it was 1965. It was less than half of people out thought being rich was a important thing in your life. And now it's way over 75%.

3 (34m 47s):
That's interesting. Yeah. I wonder how many of those people wanted to be famous before the invention of social media and reality shows. Well,

4 (34m 54s):
I, yeah,

3 (34m 55s):
I think, you know, I wonder if there was like less of an aspiration.

4 (34m 57s):
There was. Yeah. So all, all of that celebrity stuff comes out of the eighties and, and the eighties. What defines the eighties is these big economic changes. Yeah. You know, like in order to survive in the eighties, you had to be an, like a radical individualist. You had to be a get up and go profit motive, self-sustaining individualist. Like a Right. Like a competitive individual. Because before that we had the big state, we had big social security cushions, we had public housing. And they, they, they, they, they, they got rid of all of that.

3 (35m 29s):
I feel like there's a comfortable medium in there. Yeah. That's we're missing out on. Yeah. Like don't be competitive to the point where you're a fucking psychopath. Yeah. You're saying breed is good. Yeah. Don't, don't be that guy, but also don't be lazy and rely on the state to take care of you either. Well,

4 (35m 44s):
Yeah, I I I think I, I'm not sure if it was Tony Blair, but certainly I, I, I, I think it was Tony Blair that talked about the idea of neoliberalism with cushions, which I love that idea where, because it's true that it kind of worked, it was brutal in the eighties, but we're, most of us are much wealthier now than we were in the eighties. Like, it's kind of worked. Mm. But but it's also created much more separation between, between the top and the bottom. Much more inequality. So the rich are much richer now and the poorer, much poorer than they were in the middle of the 20th century. So let's say it's, it's created a lot more unfairness as well. So you do need those cushions. I think.

3 (36m 17s):
Well it also becomes an insurmountable position too. Like when we say the rich get richer, the, there the poor aren't getting any richer. So there's, that's a part of the problem. It's like there's no escape from like severe poverty. No. Very few people escape. And when you're in severe poverty, especially if you're in another country, like when people look at this caravan of people coming in through South America, through Mexico, I would do it too. A hundred percent. 100%. I don't, I'm not a terrorist. I would hope that it wouldn't be a terrorist, you know, in a different life. But 100% if I was living in a place that sucked with dirt floors and I found, I could walk to America.

3 (36m 57s):
Yeah, absolutely. I'd be like, I can get a job there. Let's go. Yeah. Yeah. You would, you would do it. A hundred percent. It's natural. Yeah. Seems like a, a normal thing that people want to have a better life. I think that we've just gotta figure out why we have these parts of the world. Why we have these communities that are just never getting better and help 'em. Yeah. It just seems super simple. You want the world to be a safer place. Yeah. Take all these places that suck and give them economic security. Give them education and healthcare. Mm. Set up school systems that are really good. You're gonna change the whole atmosphere. You're gonna change everything.

3 (37m 37s):
Provide job opportunities. Set up places where we should make, how about here's a law, here's a law I should make. You can't sell anything made by people who make less than would be legal here. Wouldn't that be an amazing law if we passed that? If we just said, listen, we all know this is bullshit. Yeah. Okay. We all know that if you're buying an iPhone, there's a lot going on that you wouldn't like to see. Yeah. There's a lot going on from the mining of the cobalt to the people in the factories. I don't wanna say that I want the shiny titanium thing. It's so pretty. You know, you move it around in your hand like, wow, that's amazing.

3 (38m 17s):
That's what you want. You don't wanna know how the sausage is made. But if you really want to I mean, if you wanna try to fix everything everywhere, say I'm not buying anything from anybody who doesn't get paid what you're supposed to get paid here.

4 (38m 31s):
Yeah. But the, you got to account for the economies are different in, in different parts of the world, aren't

3 (38m 34s):
They? Then let's balance it out to the economies of those places.

4 (38m 37s):
Yeah. Yeah. I think that I, I think that's a good rule.

3 (38m 39s):
Do they do that though? They might actually, I mean, what is the economy in, if you're in Mexico, what, what are you allowed to pay people in Mexico and how much does it go? Like, let's say let's pick a place Juarez that's a kind of a border town. It's like if you, if you ever own a factory in Juarez, how how much do you have to pay those people?

4 (39m 4s):
What is the I? don Don't The economists have that Big Mac test where they look at how much a big Mac costs in each territory. And, and from that they can work out the relative strength of each economy. It's like, so, so the test would be, you'd have to be able to buy X amount of big max per day with your Yeah. With your, with your daily wage.

3 (39m 21s):
If you, you know, we just have this re real weird desire to never stop making more. Mm. Like real weird desire to like maximize profit, expand, expand, make a big, nobody ever has a company and goes, we're good. Yeah. Just like, leave it like this.

4 (39m 42s):
That's because status is relative, right? Yeah. And, and, and so you are, you are always insecure about your, like you don't, status is imaginary resource. Right? Like it only exists in our minds, in the minds of other people. but it also, so you can't keep it, you can't, you can't put it in a box. So you're constantly having to make sure that it's still there. It's still there. You're constantly measuring your state. Like Apple are measuring their status versus Google and Samsung or whoever. So there, there's that, there's that constant chippiness. So, so you are always trying to ratchet up there, there was this really hilarious study they did where they, they got a bunch of Multiple millionaires and billionaires and they asked them, how much more money would you need to be perfectly happy And uniformly they said between two and three times more money.

4 (40m 26s):
And it's like, and it's like, you are not gonna be perfectly happy. You are delusional. But that's, that's the human brain. So, so, so, so we, we think, well when I, when I've achieved this thing, I'll be perfectly happy. But Of course we, we are happy for about 10 seconds, then we want the next thing and the next thing and the next thing. And actually, like, it's exhausting, but it's also how we built civilization. It's also an incredible, amazing thing that we are restless, we are never satisfied. We want better and better and better and better. Like it drives us forward.

3 (40m 53s):
Yeah. Well it's, I was gonna say about the McDonald's thing, it's also a function of being a part of a public company. Mm. You have an obligation to your shareholders to make more money. Like the whole idea is let's make more money. We have to make more money. Let's make more money.

4 (41m 5s):
Yeah.

3 (41m 6s):
Hey, I'm looking at the money and it's not more, I like more money. That's

4 (41m 9s):
The slight problem with it. 'cause 'cause you can measure your status in all kinds of different ways in any, you know, there's some Right. Infinite ways you can measure your status and money being just one of them. But that's part of the problem with the, the public companies. Yeah. Is that, is that money becomes the only important. and it is not, it's not just money. It's short term profit. Like it has to, every quarter has to go up and go up and go up and go up and go. How much, so that's a sort of damaged incentive in a

3 (41m 32s):
Way. How much different would the world be if we made that illegal? I'm not saying we should, I'm not saying we should, but how much different would the world be where all corporations have to be private? Yeah. All of them. You just have to be a company. Yeah. You can't just sell your stuff to people. Like whatever you are, what piece of this and whatever you wanna call it. Stocks. Yeah. Call it whatever you want. You're selling chunks of your company, right? No, you have to own it. Yeah. You wanna be in business, you gotta own your own company. Because,

4 (41m 60s):
Because yeah. There are two ways that you can measure the status of your company. I guess two main ways. One is how much money it makes and, and the other is the quality of the product. Right. And what you see in today's world, of course is the stock price. Yeah. So, so, so, so quality tends to go down and down and down. You've got shrink ation. Yeah. You know, so it's not just the quality, it's the, it's what you're getting for your money goes down and down. Yeah. So it's just kinda like fake gives you the illusion, the illusion of growth in the company. We're making more money. Yeah. Because you're putting less berries in the yogurt, you know? Yeah. That's why, you know, it's, it's not a, a positive productive growth. It's a, it's a growth that comes from cutting all the good stuff out your

3 (42m 36s):
Product. Also, you would eliminate all the Gordon geckos. 'cause that's not a business anymore. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You can't just sell stock anymore. Doesn't exist. You can't do that anymore. Yeah. Own something bitch. Own a a company, make a product to stop. That was, it's a fascinating thought. And again, I'm not a supporter of this, nor do I know anything about economics. But I would imagine that that would be better if like the companies had to be owned. Like you have to own the fucking company. Yeah.

4 (43m 2s):
Why, why do you, but then everyone's pensions would be fucked because basically people's pensions are already in stocks, aren't they? Yeah. We'd have a, it would be a, yeah, I think we're in this now. But, but, but yeah.

3 (43m 13s):
Also this dirty thing where you can't buy stock if you know things.

4 (43m 18s):
Yeah.

3 (43m 19s):
You know, like if I knew that some shit was about to pop off and I bought a bunch of stock, it

4 (43m 24s):
Must be so tempting. Like if you know for a fact Yeah. That tomorrow this stock is gonna be up here. Oh

3 (43m 29s):
Man. Oh yeah. It's tempted the shit outta me. Yeah.

4 (43m 33s):
I dunno whether I'd be able to not, not

3 (43m 34s):
Do have to not, yeah. I don't, I'm not that motivated by money that I would do that. But it's, there's a, there's just, it's a, just a natural desire people have for

4 (43m 44s):
So Yeah. Because we attach our, whatever we've attached our status to, we want.

3 (43m 48s):
Yeah. We're playing a number game. That

4 (43m 50s):
Thing. and it doesn't matter how famous and rich we, we

3 (43m 52s):
Become, it never ends. It never ends. It's a bottomless pit. Yeah. You, it's a game you can never win. and I think it's designed to make human beings create aliens. That's what I think. This is my thought. Yeah. I think that is Desi. I think this whole like competing with the Joneses, keeping up with the Joneses, what is it? It always fuels technology at the end of the day. 'cause that's the thing you buy, like every year people buy phones and laptops. If you're really bawling, you buy a new laptop every couple years, you know? And that is, you're constantly looking for new processors, new innovation, what is it? Ar how big's the battery? What's the battery like? And it's constantly going in this general direction of ever complex technology that interfaces with human beings and now with ai and it's gonna be an artificial life form.

3 (44m 40s):
Yeah. And whether it's 10 years from now or 20 years from now, or it's already happening in a fucking lab in Ohio. Yes.

4 (44m 46s):
Yeah. Yeah. It might doubtless

3 (44m 47s):
It might already be happening right now. Doubtless where they have an artificial life form and that's gonna be the new dominant life form on earth. Yeah. It'll be far smarter. It'll, it hopefully will coexist with it.

4 (45m 2s):
Wait, it comes from Yeah. I mean, and it comes from the tribe. It comes from, well it comes from before we were human. We've been competing for status since before we were humans. Since we were animals. Well we still are animals, but since before we were human animals. And in the, in the, in the tribes in which we evolved, the more status that you earn, the more food you got, the better food you got. The safer your sleeping sites, the greater your access to your choice of mates. So basically every, the more status that you get in your group, everything gets better.

3 (45m 28s):
And wouldn't that motivate you to make the most complex thing a human being's ever made? A hundred percent an

4 (45m 34s):
Artificial

3 (45m 34s):
Human.

4 (45m 34s):
It will.

3 (45m 35s):
Yeah. A hundred

4 (45m 35s):
Percent. Yeah. And it's not about the money or the, the bling or the Nope.

3 (45m 38s):
It's

4 (45m 39s):
About just what we do. I wanna be better than you and I wanna be the best inventor of artificial life form there is in the world. Yeah. Better than that dude and that person. And, and yeah. And that's what motivates people. That's what pushes people to create amazing things. And

3 (45m 51s):
We have this distorted idea of what is like a fiercely competitive person. When we think of fiercely competitive people, we only for whatever reason consider basketball players, football players Yeah. Baseball players, yeah. Fighters, athletes, race, car drivers. We consider fiercely competitive people. The people that are engaged in sports and activities every day. But no, no, there's fiercely competitive people that are involved in business and government and all sorts of other things. And they're, they're fucking psycho about this game that they're playing. Absolutely. Whatever it is. Yeah. Or it's stocks and bonds or selling pharmaceutical drugs. They're fucking psycho competitive about that.

4 (46m 26s):
And that psychos is the status instinct. It's like, I, I, you know, I need the status. Like I love, there's, there was a great story that I found for The, Status Game about Steve Jobs and like the true origin story of the iPhone I, don Dunno, if you've heard this, the true origin story of the iPhone, which is that Steve Jobs, his wife used to hold these barbecues in wherever they lived, Silicon Valley, wherever. And one time he was at this barbecue and the husband of one of her friends worked for Microsoft and he's like rubbing Steve Jobs face and it's saying, oh, we've, we've invented the future of computing. You are done. It's this Pat thing with a stylus. And apparently he really annoyed the fuck outta Steve Jobs. So Monday morning jobs comes into Apple furious swearing and going, right, we're gonna prove this prick wrong.

4 (47m 10s):
It's not stylists, it's a finger. He used the finger and from that barbecue came his rage. And from the rage came the iPhone. And, and, and that story was told by Steve Forte, who was, you know, intimately involved with all this stuff. And he, and he, he said it was not good for Microsoft that that guy went to that barbecue that day. And he's absolutely right. But, but, but that status like that that, that it was personal for Steve Jobs. Yeah. It was Microsoft telling Apple that they were fucked and that they, that they'd solved computing. That's

3 (47m 42s):
A perfect example of a psycho competitive dude. Absolutely. Who would've probably won bike races. Yeah. but it he's running Apple. Yeah.

4 (47m 50s):
And you, back in the day like 20,000 years ago, he'd been the best warrior in the tribe. Like stabbing

3 (47m 55s):
The shit archer of everyone. Yeah, for sure. Yeah.

4 (47m 58s):
And, and that's that, that, that's the kind of upside of aggression in a way, you know? Yeah. It's, it creates things, it creates value in the world.

3 (48m 5s):
It certainly has created a lot of great things. Right? Yeah. It certainly has created a lot of amazing inventions that enhance our lives. But it's also, it's like it's moving this nonstop direction and it always seems to me like we're a bunch of fucking buffalo being hurted off a cliff Yeah. Like, does anybody know where this cliff is? But we just keep going with this stuff. Like I mean with all the international chaos that's going in the world, the conflicts, the wars, the Ukraine thing, and the the Israel Hamas thing. It's like, fuck man, how much longer I mean, that's a status thing too, right? Of course. And ultimately, ultimately, I mean when you can get groups of people to go after other groups of people and be convinced that those people that you don't even fucking know are your problem.

3 (48m 48s):
The fact that that game is still being played in 2024,

4 (48m 52s):
But it would never stop being played because we are storytelling animals. And we tell stories about, about status and, and, and, and I think one of the sort of key things that, that sort of things that I kind of realized when I was doing the book was that the conscious experience of life is a story, but the subconscious reality is this game, the brain's constantly playing a game for status. And it's, we've got all this insane subconscious technology that we use for measuring our status versus other people that we're completely unaware of. Like, there's one about the tone of voice during conversation. They called it the para verbal frequency band. Mm. And you can't hear it consciously, but, but, but, but it's a way of organizing status hierarchy is when we meet people and the person who's top sets the tone and everybody else matches to meet the tone.

4 (49m 39s):
And these psychologists studied a bunch of Larry King interviews a bit, a bit like this one. And they, and they, and they stripped out the power of verbal frequency band, and they could work out who he felt superior to versus who he felt inferior to. So he, he, he, he felt inferior to, I think it was Liz Taylor and, and, and superior to Dan Quail. And there were particular interviews which were very irascible and didn't go very well. And there was, they were kind of, they weren't getting along. and it, one of them was Dan Quail, and they found that those, they were just not matching. So, so there's all this stuff going on beneath the hood of consciousness, which is constantly organizing us into kinda status games.

4 (50m 22s):
And, and so, you know, so there's, and, and it iss that, that causes the hierarchies of life. That's the reason why communism can never work, because, you know, they're trying to wipe out the, the effects of status in society. But you can't wipe out the effects of status in society. 'cause it's in our, it's in our brains. You go into an elevator with three other people, and you've already figured out within seconds who's the highest status, you know, where you sit in the pecking order, who's got the nice luggage? Who's getting out of the, the suites floor at the top? You know, we, we can't help but do it. And, and so that's that constant work of the subconscious brain figuring out where we sit in the status hierarchy creates human life. Yeah.

3 (51m 1s):
That's why Fidel Castro lived in a fucking mansion. Yeah,

4 (51m 4s):
Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (51m 6s):
There's communism. That's how it works. Yeah. One guy. Yeah. And a bunch of fucking people with guns tell you what the fuck you're gonna do. Yeah. That's it. I mean it's starts, that's the only way it

4 (51m 14s):
I mean. You treated it like a guard. I mean, like, the whole, the whole idea of communism, they wanted to create a kingdom of equality, they called it. Yeah. It's like, come on, I mean.

3 (51m 22s):
But the funny thing is, when you talk to people about this and you just point out these just logical patterns of human behavior, it doesn't work. You can't just have equality of outcome. It doesn't exist. No. They will always just point to that. It just hasn't been done Right. Yet. Come on,

4 (51m 37s):
Come on. But

3 (51m 38s):
Isn't that amazing? Isn't that amazing? Yeah. Yeah. That despite of the many, how many thousands of people are in jail? Is it millions? How many millions of people are in jail despite all that, despite all the crime and poverty and chaos, that somehow or another, you're just gonna bring this all together. Yeah. If you just do it this way and everybody just divides the money up. Yeah.

4 (52m 5s):
Just

3 (52m 6s):
Who gets to tell people they get to take, give their money up. People with

4 (52m 9s):
Guns. You take people's status away. Like I, I, years ago I went to Poland to do some reporting on, like, at the time, the big story in the UK was all this Polish people coming to the UK to do all this work. Right. And so, where

3 (52m 20s):
I remember that, yeah,

4 (52m 21s):
Where's all the Polish people come from? So I went to Poland to find out where all the Polish people had come from. And we went to this old steelworks, this old sort of, sort of Stalin era steel works. And, and the Polish journalist who was my fixer, said, oh, you know, I, I just mentioned Khi, how the poles are such hard workers. And she was like, we're not hard workers. We are lazy. We're like, I can't believe that you Brits think we are hard workers. And she said, we've got this post-Soviet mindset. So I said to her, what do you mean the post-Soviet mindset? And she said, well, when everyone's getting paid anyway, you've not motivated to do any work. So in, in a steel works like this, they, nobody would do any work. And if somebody came in really enthusiastic and ambitious, they'd be bullied to fuck until they calmed down and stopped doing work.

4 (53m 1s):
So, so that was how it, how it worked. And there there was a phrase like, you can, you can turn up for work, or you can not turn up for work. You're still gonna get paid. So removing that stuff from human society removes something that we need, which is individual status. We're like, you know, if You don't reward individual status, you don't motivate people to contribute to work. Yeah. And that's partly why communism collapsed. Because because it's incompatible with human nature. Like capitalism is the only system that we've got that is compatible with human nature. It rewards the status instinct.

3 (53m 33s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's really fascinating when you break it down that way. 'cause it kind of makes it undeniable. Yeah. Because it is, seems this pattern just constantly happens over and over and over again. But there's always people that they play to the most charitable and the kindest people in the world. And they phrase things in a way that if you oppose this idea that in somehow or another you're cruel Hmm. Or that you are greedy or evil, that there's something negative about you being competitive. And it's essentially, I think of the roots of it as kind of a cop out of people that have been beaten in life.

4 (54m 14s):
Yeah.

3 (54m 14s):
You know, there's this thing that certain people do when it's, they're things aren't going well. They want the tank. Yeah. Anything that's going well, you know? That's right.

4 (54m 23s):
And, and, and I and I think there's a big misunderstanding about what that, what that competitive instinct, what that status instinct is. And when, and I found it with talking about the book, a lot of people just really don't like it. This idea that I'm arguing that status is a human need, that everybody has it. Right. They go, don, don't, I'm not interested in status. You know, and say you are,

3 (54m 41s):
But you're definitely interested in the benefits of it. Yeah. Do you like iPhones? Yeah, exactly.

4 (54m 46s):
Exactly.

3 (54m 46s):
You

4 (54m 47s):
Get an iPhone, they're tapping on their iPhone. Yeah. This shit idea. It's crazy. Right? But, but what all, all that status is technically is the, is the reward that we get for being of value to the tribe. Right? So back in the days that we evolved, there are three essential ways of adding status for human beings. Aside from boring things like looks and height and whatever. There's dominance games. So this is the animalistic, you can force somebody to attend to you in status, either physically or with social violence of the kind. See on social media, there's virtue games. So people compete to, to be, have a reputation of being very virtuous. So courageous, somebody who knows the rules, follows the rules, believes the sacred beliefs. So a religion is a virtue game.

4 (55m 28s):
The royal family, weirdly, is a virtue game. 'cause it's about being deference and knowing the rules. And then there's success games I call them, which is about competence, about being a great hunter, a great honey finder, a great sorcerer. And that's what, that's what defines the west. Yeah. That, that, that, that's what made the west. What it is, is that we started playing six, like for, for, for millennia, we were mostly playing virtue games. It was cast kingdom Game of Thrones kind of land. And then in the, starting with the Industrial Revolution, we started playing success games. So we started mostly like much more rewarding competence. And, and so that, that, that competitive instinct is channeled into figuring out how to solve problems, how to create wealth.

4 (56m 8s):
And it's right that we reward that we've, we've evolved to reward people who offer value to the human family. Yeah. That's status. It's not a, a negative thing in that sense. It's massively positive. And, and, and weirdly, capitalism is a, is a, is an economic system that, that does the same thing. It works with how status games work. It works with how we've evolved to operate in human

3 (56m 31s):
Tribes. That's why I love how you talk about this because it, the, you change the term in a lot of people's eyes as well that listen to you because status for a lot of people's kind of a pejorative. Yeah,

4 (56m 42s):
It is. Yeah.

3 (56m 42s):
Yeah. It's, it's like a dick. They think about

4 (56m 45s):
Kash,

3 (56m 45s):
You want status. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're just an asshole. Yeah. But it's just a natural human pattern. Yeah. That if we can recognize, we can also like mitigate some of the problems that come with it. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (56m 57s):
I mean, and that's why I mean, that's why I like talking about communism, because communism was the biggest experiment we've ever had in eradicating status. So, so Marx and Engels, their big idea was that status comes from private property, from private ownership. So you could have a house that is a perfectly functional house and you're happy with it, but then somebody builds a big palace next door, suddenly you feel shit. Right? So get so, so, so they said, you know, like, yeah, communism could be stu up in one sentence, which is the abolition of private property. We get rid of that. We get rid of people being interested in status. Everybody works together. but it w it just didn't work. Like there were some anthropologists. So sociologists who went to the Soviet Union in the fifties, and they found 10 distinct social classes in the Soviet Union.

4 (57m 38s):
All they did was they took the existing status game hierarchy with the wealthy at the top and the workers at the bottom. And they flipped it. So the workers were at the top, and the wealthy were the wealthy. And former wealthy really were at the bottom. And those former wealthy, the bourgeoisie, the children of the bourgeoisie were absolutely discriminated against openly and horrifically. If you weren't tortured and killed, you were held back in, you know, in every sense. And that, and that's the thing about Utopians. Utopians often talk about, we're gonna get rid of the hierarchy, but they don't wanna get rid of the hierarchy. They just want a new hierarchy. Was you at the top? Yeah. Every single time.

3 (58m 14s):
Yeah. That's what got Brett Weinstein in trouble when he was teaching at Evergreen University. Huh? Do you remember this story? I do.

4 (58m 23s):
Yeah.

3 (58m 23s):
It was the same situation, Brett. They, they had had a, it's like, I think it was like a day of appreciation for people of color where people of color could stay home. They still get paid. Yeah. And you go, wow, I wish Mike was here. He's very helpful. You know, whatever it was. And they decided one year to switch it and make it so that white people can't come, you cannot come. Mm. And then, which is a very different sentiment Yeah. Than you can stay home if you like, and you still get paid, but you can come. Yeah. But if you wanna stay home, you just get paid. Mm. And everybody just chose to stay home. It's nice. Right. And thank you for appreciating me. That's not a negative. Right. If you have the money to do it, and it doesn't fucking stop everything in its tracks.

3 (59m 4s):
Of course. Yeah. Sounds great. Yeah. Sounds great. Sounds like a nice liberal hippie thing to do, but the other one doesn't. No. The other one scares me because that's racist. Yeah. If you're, you're saying white people can't be here. Like, why not? Yeah, exactly. Like, what did I do? Yeah. I didn't do anything. Yeah. Like you're, you're saying that white people shouldn't be allowed to be in a place where they work? Yeah. Because you decide. 'cause you decide they have to stay home. Look, there's better ways of going about it. Yeah. Terrible. It's, it's a bad idea. Yeah. It's the, the idea behind appreciating people is great, but the idea about discriminating people in any way is bad. Absolutely. And if youre saying white people, you have to stay home. That's

4 (59m 40s):
Bad. But that, but that, but that also characterizes, I'm not saying that the kind of woke thing is the same as communism, but it has echoes of it. Yes. and it, and it, and it, and it is the same flipping of the hierarchy. So, so when I was doing my research into communism, there was this phrase that came up. So the, the, the, the former bazi wealthy business people and the children of them were called former people. You were, it's a dismissive, you were a former people. Wow. And that's how, you know, when you think about how, especially, you know, men, especially white men, especially straight white men are treated at the moment. Yeah.

3 (1h 0m 10s):
Talk, preach brother. They, they,

4 (1h 0m 11s):
They, they, they're, they're former, you know, they, they, they're made to feel like former people. Yeah. Like, there's a whole generation of guys who have been raised in a culture where they're being made to feel you've had your turn. Sit down, shut up. The future is not for you. The future is for people who don't look like you and think you. And so, so so that, that, that form of people really resonated with me. It's like you, you straight white men, you are former people, you are yesterday's people. You are not the future. You are not tomorrow

3 (1h 0m 38s):
Watching. So sit down and shut up. I was watching argument on Twitter. Yeah. Where this man and this woman were going at it and the man said something that was factually correct. Yeah. And the woman said, if you think that I'm going to take information from a straight white man, that was their comeback. Yeah. God. That was their comeback. I'm not taking that information coming from a straight white man. Yeah. Yeah. Like the last thing we need right now is straight white man speaking. Whoa.

4 (1h 1m 4s):
I I've had that.

3 (1h 1m 5s):
Don't speak, just listen. Yeah. It's time to listen. That's my favorite. Just please be quiet and listen. Like, hey, sometimes that's good advice. And sometimes you are just telling people you want to talk. Yeah, exactly. Yeah.

4 (1h 1m 17s):
It's so ignorant. and I had a similar experience once I used to teach a storytelling course at The Guardian newspaper Science of Storytelling. And so it's, so it's like how to use psychology and neuroscience to make yourself better storyteller. So I'm talking about studies and this study and that study. Yeah. And then during a break, this woman came up to me and she worked for a major, she worked for a major academic, like one of the biggest academic journals. And she said to me, there's a problem with, I've got a problem with what you've been talking about. and it is that most of what you are, most of these studies are by straight white men. And I was like, so like, like, okay. And what's the point? And she, and she, she, she was saying, well, you can't really trust them because they've got their own, you know, they've, they've got their own, they're all evil.

4 (1h 2m 1s):
They're all, their perception of the world is, is wrong. and it, and I, you know, I felt actually a bit intimidated by that. 'cause I'm standing in the Guardian with this woman telling me that effectively, I, I guess I've been racist somehow or sexist somehow. So I just said to her, I I'm not gonna have this conversation with you. Okay. I, I'm, and she kind of went away. But I just thought, but, but it was the fact that she worked for a major scientific publication. She was telling me that because the work was done by straight white men, it could not be trusted. Like that's, that's a Mississippi level, like Mississippi 1932 level racism. It was absolutely a baffling kind of moment. And she was a smart person. She was clearly a smart person. But again, that's the, that's the human brain.

4 (1h 2m 43s):
It believes what it has to believe in order to make itself feel important and valued.

3 (1h 2m 48s):
I've got an amazing example of that that I just sent. Jamie, I want you to see this. I want you to see this headline. Please make sure this headline is real first. 'cause I have been duped before, but someone sent me this on the Instagram. And if it is true, praise the baby Jesus. 'cause it's as good as the Babylon bee. It's so good. It seems like satire. It's so good.

4 (1h 3m 10s):
Oh, I think I know what it is.

3 (1h 3m 11s):
Oh, hold please. Is it real? I gotta check. Alright.

4 (1h 3m 15s):
Is it the seat check?

3 (1h 3m 16s):
He's trying to No, no, no, no, no. He's trying to, he's trying to type with Carl. I was a little buddy. 2017. It's from 2017. Yeah. But it's real. Right. I mean I'm seeing other people talk about it. Okay. So just post that. Lemme let's see the article. Straight Black Men are the White People of Black People.

7 (1h 3m 41s):
That's South Park level. Yeah, it is. That's South Park level.

3 (1h 3m 44s):
Yeah. That is amazing. Yeah. It feels counterintuitive to suggest it's straight black men as a whole possess any sort of privilege. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God.

4 (1h 3m 57s):
This is the great irony of these people.

3 (1h 3m 58s):
It's amazing.

4 (1h 4m 2s):
The, you, you know, the, these kind of woke people talk about privilege and there, there was a study that was done in the UK a few years ago. It was the more in common report. It's the biggest ever psychological study of Britain's social psychology. You know, over 10,000 respondents. And they were looking at the kind of, kind of these belief sets. And they found there were seven distinct belief groups in the country. One of those belief groups, they called them progressive activists. And these are people for whom the fight for social justice at the heart of their identity. You know, they believe that how you get on in life is about not about your talent and your hard work, but about your race and gender. So we know who, who they're talking about. Yeah. And so what was interesting about these people was, it just astonished me first is that they are the richest of all the seven groups.

4 (1h 4m 50s):
So they had more people earning over 50,000 pounds per year as a family. And secondly, that they were the most highly educated of all the seven groups. So, so these people that are constantly going on about privileged, if they're the most privileged people in Britain, they're amongst the most privileged people in the world. So that was the first thing. The second thing, which I thought was amazing, was that they, that they, they were six times more likely to, to make political comments on what was then called Twitter. Mm. And they make more social media contributions than all of the rest of the groups combined.

3 (1h 5m 20s):
Doesn't it make sense though? Completely.

4 (1h 5m 22s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 5m 22s):
They don't have any financial stress. Yep. Right. They probably feel real guilty. And if they're white, they feel super guilty and then they're young and you get status from being progressive and an activist. And you don't have to be competitive in the workplace. You're out here throwing paint on the Michelangelos. Yes,

4 (1h 5m 40s):
Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. So, so, So, and I also the numbers. So, so in the uk they, they make up 13% of the population in the US they make up 8% of the population. So on social media, because they dominate social media, they feel like sometimes the majority of the country. But their, their beliefs are actually really marginal. Like, they, like one of the, one of these, I think it was asked people, who do you think should be the next governor of the Bank of England? A man or a woman? This is the kind of story that, that drives our media into param. You know, like if it's a, they've hired another white man. Oh, you know, they, they get the shivers. And this poll found that 5% of people thought it should be a woman.

4 (1h 6m 22s):
3% of people thought it should be a man. The vi everybody else pretty much didn't give a shit. You know?

3 (1h 6m 28s):
That's great. That's the reality. That's good progress.

4 (1h 6m 29s):
Yeah. Most people think it doesn't

3 (1h 6m 31s):
Matter. That seems indicative of the general population that I come across.

4 (1h 6m 36s):
Yeah, exactly. And, but, but because these people, these 13% or 8% in the, in the, in the US are so highly educated and so wealthy. They, they dominate the media. They dominate the gatekeeping positions in publishing companies and TV companies. So, so, so, so they really have the kind of commanding voice in our culture very often. But they're a tiny minority of, of, of who we are.

3 (1h 6m 59s):
But it really does behave like a religion in a lot of ways. Mm. It really does. And you know, mark Andreessen broke it down very eloquently where he is explaining that it has all of the things that a cult has. It has the indoctrination, it has the excommunication we're shame kicked outta the group, the disconnect from the group members. It's a, it's got all those things to it. Yeah. And that's like a big part of, it's like worried about being shamed and,

4 (1h 7m 23s):
And

3 (1h 7m 23s):
Cast out of the the group. Yeah. Which is terrifying for people. So they're willing to say and believe things that aren't that logical, you know, just if they can stay in the group.

4 (1h 7m 33s):
Yeah, absolutely. They, they,

3 (1h 7m 35s):
It's natural.

4 (1h 7m 36s):
We, we believe what we have to believe in order to earn status in our, in our groups. And, and that's, that's true for these people as this is true for, for anyone else. and I Yeah. and I agree with the cult thing. But, but I would just add that all all human groups have cult elements. Yep. They have special languages, they have rules, hierarchies. Yeah. Rewards and punishments. It's just that cults are the tightest possible form of human group.

3 (1h 7m 58s):
I learned that when I started doing martial arts. 'cause one of the things that was really interesting about the martial arts world is it's very cult-like Yeah. Especially in, when I did it in like the eighties, the early eighties when I started, they were, you know, they were the masters. You bowed to them, you know, you bow when you enter the, the, I was so committed to this that I had this girlfriend when I was in high school, and I had the keys to the gym. 'cause I would work out there like anytime I wanted. and I taught classes there and stuff. And she wanted to have sex in the gym. and I couldn't do it. I wouldn't do it. She was so hot. and I was, I wouldn't do it. I was like, I can't do it here. Like, yeah, this is not, this can't happen here. Mm. At like 17, I was so horny. Wow. And so stupid. Wow. But I was like, Uhuh, we can't do it here.

3 (1h 8m 40s):
Yeah. I guess the power of The, Status Game. It was like a, like, like now I'd be like, where, what do you wanna do it before? Like, but back then I was, that was a religious place for me. I didn't think about it that way at the time. Mm. I just knew what the rules were. Yeah. and I was not violating those rules in any way. There's no way. Yeah. You know, but that's, there was a lot of weird stuff where like, some of the masters would date some of the married women. It was, it got real weird. It got real weird. Yeah. Got real culty. I don't doubt it. It it's very culty. Because these, you know, you adore this person who is commanding the group and getting everybody to march, like to the bark of his voice and everyone's doing.

3 (1h 9m 21s):
And he just commands all this attention and respect. So it was a, there's, the gym I went to was a very good place where it was very little that standing gets going on. But there was a bunch of them where it was like, yeah. It was a big thing where like, you, you hear that about like yoga places too. Like the yoga guru guy started banging people's wives. It's just like a, there was a place that I bought out here that was owned by a cult. I bought a place for my comedy club and I didn't wind up completing the deal. I got out of it because there was, there was some problems with the property. And then I bought the place that I bought on sixth Street. Yeah. Yeah. But before it, I bought this place called the One World Theater. Huh. And the one World Theater was created by this guy.

3 (1h 10m 2s):
His name was Jaime Gomez. And he was a gay porn star and a hypnotist. Whoa. And he started a cult. He started a cult in West Hollywood. There's a documentary about it called Holy Hell. And then they moved out to Austin and he had his followers build him this theater so that he could dance in front of them. And that was the place that I bought. So he could dance in front of them, dance in front of them. Oh my God. He put on performances and dance in front of them, just the followers. And he had a gang of 'em, man. He had a gang of 'em in LA in West Hollywood. And then when the Cult Awareness Network started going after people, he took off. He thought they were onto him because the parents were like, where's my fucking kid? So then he moves to Austin Wow. And builds this one world theater. So my friend Ron White tells me about the theater.

3 (1h 10m 44s):
He's like, 'cause I tell him I'm gonna, I'm looking for a comedy club location. And he goes, you should get that theater. It's amazing. So Ron White's the my hero. So I'm like, all right, I'll get that theater. And as I'm like, in the middle of the purchasing it, my friend Adam calls me and goes, did you watch a documentary on that cult? Wow. And I was like, oh no. How bad is he? Go, oh dude, it's bad. You gotta watch it. And it's crazy. And it's these people that just get sucked into believing that this guy can give them enlightenment and connect them to God by touching their head.

4 (1h 11m 14s):
That's status. Yeah.

3 (1h 11m 15s):
Yeah. And they all, and the thing is, man, even after this guy got exposed and you know, he was hypnotizing the men and having sex with them, it was crazy shit. Right. But even after he got exposed, the people that went through the experience of having this guy touch their head when it was, it was called the knowing. It was built up for days and weeks. And some people were denied the knowing they could never get it. And other people, today is your day. And they couldn't believe it. and it would sit there on their knees and this guy would touch their head and they would be an ecstasy. and it looked real. Yeah. And they talked about it even after they like, this guy's a fraud. He's a, he's crazy. He was this, he was that. He was manipulative and a liar. But that moment I felt like I was connected to God.

4 (1h 11m 57s):
Yeah. Yeah. Like,

3 (1h 11m 58s):
He did something to me. and I felt, I felt the world change forever.

4 (1h 12m 3s):
God, that mind is a powerful thing. Crazy

3 (1h 12m 6s):
How it works.

4 (1h 12m 6s):
Yeah. So what stopped you buying that theater then? There

3 (1h 12m 8s):
Was a problem with the property.

4 (1h 12m 10s):
It wasn't because you watched

3 (1h 12m 11s):
No, no. There was just some, some issues and we couldn't negotiate it. And I was like, this is, and then I was like, you know what, it'd probably better to be in the city City like where people walk. Yeah. You know, just make it more convenient for folks too. 'cause people are used to going to sixth Street. And then I found that place and I got the, the place that's there. But the cult the cult. That would've been a real problem. 'cause a lot of people think I'm already running a cult. That would've been a real problem. But like how he bought a cult building. Yeah. Yeah. But also for, to me it was the real problem was I don't necessarily know if I believe in energy, but I not energy. You know, I believe in energy.

3 (1h 12m 51s):
But I mean like that energy gets left in a space. Oh yeah.

4 (1h 12m 54s):
That, like

3 (1h 12m 55s):
My stepdad went to Gettysburg and he said, you can feel the sadness. And he's not like a spiritual fucking weeds board type dude. He's a very rational architect. And he's like, you feel the sadness? He goes, it's like, you feel it, you feel how many people died here.

4 (1h 13m 14s):
Yeah. I get that feeling when I'm in Berlin. Berlin feels like, that feels like, like Berlin. People go on about how great Berlin is. But there's, I always get this immense sense of heaviness when I've spent some time in Berlin. Like, do

3 (1h 13m 24s):
You think that's 'cause you know, or do you think it's in the air?

4 (1h 13m 26s):
Don don't know because I'm not expecting to feel that way. Right. But, but, but don don't know it. I mean, who knows I mean? There's certainly, it, it's striking When you walk around Berlin, you still see all the sort of shrapnel marks in the sides of buildings are still there. It's kind of That's quite confronting.

3 (1h 13m 41s):
That's why I was thinking, I don't necessarily know if I want that building. Yeah. 'cause that building was built by people who got duked by a con man. Yeah.

4 (1h 13m 50s):
Fucking just, yeah.

3 (1h 13m 51s):
He's, he fucking shenanigans them into building him a theater.

4 (1h 13m 56s):
And even if there's Nor Point Norton or 1% chance, he just, yeah. A

3 (1h 13m 60s):
Lot of shit happened. I mean this one, one of the guys left and he sent this mass email. This guy's been abusing me for fuck fucking years. The, the whole thing is nuts. Like, they flew the guy to Hawaii and he started a new cult out there. Wow. It's in the documentary to go visit 'em in Hawaii. Yeah. But it's just so fascinating Yeah. How people just fall into these patterns. Mm. It's just a natural thing that we have to be aware of. Yeah. I think that's why it's so important that the way you say it and the way you talk about these things and the way you lay it out, it makes it so much more palatable to a lot of people. They, they look at it go, oh, these are all just patterns that people play. Yeah.

4 (1h 14m 38s):
We believe what we have to believe in order to Yeah. You know, and I think one of the, one of the things that, that, one of the things in history that's, that the status research has really made me understand is the rise of the Nazis that, like growing up in the UK is always this question, how, how could it have happened? How could this technologically advanced, sophisticated country descend into Nazism? And once you understand the role, the status plays, it becomes completely, for me, it's crystal clear. Like before the first World War, Germany was just absolutely killing it. They were the most successful country in continental Europe. They were like had, you know, massive, like the Apple and Google of the days, BASF, Siemens, you know, huge companies.

4 (1h 15m 19s):
They were producing a third of the world's potatoes, you know, like, like quality of life had rocketed in the early part of the 19th century. And then did the first World War happened. And they just assumed we're gonna kill it 'cause we're amazing. And of course they didn't kill it. They, they, they, they lost. And so that's humiliating in itself. And, you know, humiliation being the loss, the loss of status. And then there was the Treaty of Asai, which, which was savage. You know, they had to give up load of land. They had to, to give up their military, they had to pay the equivalent of hundreds of billions of dollars in reparations. When all that triggered hyperinflation, their economy collapsed. We took their industrial heartlands off them.

4 (1h 15m 59s):
So it was humiliation upon humiliation. Then Hitler comes along. And so this is the thing that we were never taught about Hitler in schools, which is probably still a bit I know it was gonna trigger people. But, but, but, but it's the truth. Hitler was an incredibly successful leader of Germany for the time when he was in charge. The first thing, which was a surprise to me, was that when you see those black and white films of Hitler spitting and shouting and ranting, you assume that he's talking about the Jews all the time.

3 (1h 16m 28s):
Have you seen how they've translated into English now with AI voice?

4 (1h 16m 32s):
They're going through it. Yeah. In

3 (1h 16m 33s):
Hitler's

4 (1h 16m 33s):
Voice. Yeah. I haven't seen that play that I saw

3 (1h 16m 35s):
That going on Twitter. Yeah. It's fascinating because of ai, one of the things that they can do now, like that they can do even with podcasts. So this podcast, when Spotify runs its AI through it, they'll be able to translate you into perfect Spanish in your voice. Wow. And they have this technology now I know they could do it in German, Spanish and I think French and Of course English and back and forth. So they could do that with Hitler

8 (1h 17m 2s):
For correctness. And whether you believe that I have been diligent.

4 (1h 17m 5s):
That's amazing.

3 (1h 17m 6s):
I walked

8 (1h 17m 7s):
That I have advocated for you in these years that I have been decent. I have spent my time in service of my people. Now cast your vote. If yes, then wow. Stand up for me as I have stood up for you.

4 (1h 17m 24s):
See, he's talking about

8 (1h 17m 27s):
Heuristic ate. That

3 (1h 17m 29s):
Sounds so much scarier. Yeah, it does. Let me hear that.

4 (1h 17m 31s):
The air voice hasn't really got the attitude.

8 (1h 17m 33s):
My work ate that s been

3 (1h 17m 43s):
The fucking n said, boy, there's something about German when you hear him yelling, you're like, instinctively I think it's burned into us. Yeah.

4 (1h 17m 51s):
But he, but he's not, he, he, like during the thirties, he wasn't ranting about the Jews. Right. Because the, everybody was antisemitic in that, in that period in history. But the middle class, they didn't wanna see the Jews being attacked and killed. It didn't play well. So they, he, he suppressed all of that stuff and all that ranting, most of it. He's talking about, I'm gonna restore germanist status. I'm going to, I'm gonna create this third rech, this thousand year kingdom. And that's what convinced people to support him. And he, he did it. He did, like, like some of the statistics are quite extraordinary. When they, when the Nazi party came in, a third of the population were unemployed. And by 1939 they had full employment between 1932 and 1939.

4 (1h 18m 32s):
GDP went up 81%. So he was doing the thing of restoring Germany's status. And when, when you see that footage of people going completely mad, that's when he's reversing the humiliations of Versailles. So he, so he, he took back the industrial heartland by force. And nobody stood in his way. They went mad. He took Austria. Nobody stood in his way. So, so it was all about the restoration of status. That's, that's that explains the rise of Hitler. And they did their, like there was, there was some mad stuff in the research. Like women would get swastika tattoos. They would do the Hitler salute at point of orgasm. Whoa. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 19m 12s):
Whoa.

3 (1h 19m 12s):
That's kind of hot. Yeah.

4 (1h 19m 14s):
There was a butcher that was making swastika sausages. People would even name their female children after Hitler. People with tuberculosis would stare for hours at pictures of Hitler. 'cause they thought they would make them better. So again, that's Oh my god. Another example of that status. That's how mad people go for status. It was taken away from them. And he didn't just promise to restore it for a while. He did restore it. So that's why they loved him. It wasn't to do with the, you know, with, with really anything else.

3 (1h 19m 44s):
When do you think meth came into the picture? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Because somewhere in along the line, the Hitler story is not complete. Yeah. Unless you realize Hitler was a meth head.

4 (1h 19m 53s):
Yeah. And the, the wasn't his arm wasn't his army on amphetamines. Everybody

3 (1h 19m 57s):
Was on amphetamines. Yeah. That's how they talked the kamikazes into doing that. Yeah. Yeah. That's not a natural pattern of behavior for grown men. No.

4 (1h 20m 5s):
No flying

3 (1h 20m 6s):
Planes in the boats. No. You gotta be fucking Ja.

4 (1h 20m 8s):
Yeah. Let's go bitch.

3 (1h 20m 10s):
You just wanna take everybody out. But Hitler was a full on meth head. Yeah. And there's video of him at the Olympics in 1936, just straight up tweaking. Have you ever seen that video? Yeah, I

4 (1h 20m 21s):
Have. Yeah. It's nuts.

3 (1h 20m 22s):
Yeah. And if you see that video that is, that's a guy. Like, it's not, he's not just doing that once. Yeah. I gonna go to the Olympics. My first time trying meth now that fucking guy was a meth head. You

4 (1h 20m 32s):
Know, that's it. Blitz. That was the book. Well,

3 (1h 20m 34s):
Other drugs are banned or discouraged. Methamphetamine was touted as a miracle product. Wow. When it first appeared on the market in the late 1930s, I bet it was a miracle. Indeed. The little pill was the perfect Nazi drug. German wake, the Nazis had commanded, energized, energizing, and confidence boosting methamphetamine played into the third reich's obsession with physical and mental superiority. See,

4 (1h 20m 56s):
Superiority.

3 (1h 20m 57s):
There you go. Yeah. In sharp contrast to drugs such as heroin or alcohol, methamphetamines were not about escapist pleasure. Rather, they were taken for hyper alertness and vigilance. S where the embodiment of human perfection and n Nazi ideology could now even aspire to be super human. Yeah. And such humor, humans could be turned into super soldiers.

4 (1h 21m 15s):
That's it. Superhuman. Yeah. So it's the same as, the same as the, you know, the cult that was promising, we're gonna take you to a level above hu human. Yeah. It's always the promise of these mad people that we are gonna get you, we're gonna give you so much status that we're gonna essentially become superhuman. It's what the communists thought as well. That the average human, their intelligence would become so much that everybody would be a Genius. That's what they really believed that communism would, would lead to. Like the promise of these lunatics is always insane amounts of status and religions too. Yeah. That's why heaven is isn't it's heaven is

3 (1h 21m 46s):
And it's also hope to people who have none. Yeah. That if you go along with this and there's much more people that have none than have some Yeah. And have a lot. Yeah. You know, those people with a problem. Let's go get 'em. Yeah. There's the reason why I'm so sad. Yeah, yeah. But you don't understand. That's just a trap. It's just a giant trap. Massive trap. Yeah. But it's so, it's so wild that most people don't address it that way. They just get even really brilliant people, I know, just get locked into these ideologically captured echo chambers. Yeah.

4 (1h 22m 15s):
And when there's a story that our status has been unfairly squashed and it's these people's fault, that's when it's dangerous. And Of course you had that with the Nazis, they blame the Jews for everything. But you also get that in certain, in this day and age, I mean, you know, like men get blamed for, for a lot in this day and age. Why ever get blamed for a lot in this day and age? And that's why it gets a bit, I'm not, I'm not saying it's anywhere near as dangerous as that Of course. No, but, but it, but it's the same psychological kind of patterns repeating again and again and again. We, we've been unfairly deprived of status and it's their fault. And that's really dangerous, those kinds of stories.

3 (1h 22m 54s):
It is. But I, I feel like it's just an overcorrection and I feel like it's the wind, the, you know, the wave washes this way and the wave washes that way. And if you look at the wave of what black people that have faced in this country, it's c by every definition it's far

4 (1h 23m 8s):
Worse. Absolutely. Of course. Yeah. It's far,

3 (1h 23m 10s):
Far, far, far, far worse than anything that white privileged people are experiencing today,

4 (1h 23m 14s):
Obviously. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That

3 (1h 23m 15s):
It's also saying also a clear indication that an imbalance, which was always there, still exists in so many of these places where people have the most despair and people have done nothing to fix it. Mm. And those places that a lot of them that have the most despair, it's directly connected to slavery. Yeah. Yeah. Like, you could follow it to that poverty. That's where it came from. Yeah. Like you, it's generations later, but they never recovered and You don't do anything about it. Yeah. Like, that's that when in the, in the face of they just last night, in the middle of the night passed some new Ukraine bill. Mm. Like in the middle of the night. I didn't know that they, they passed some bill. It's like, how much is it, Jamie? 95 billion. 95 billion. Wow.

3 (1h 23m 55s):
Plenty of money.

4 (1h 23m 57s):
Wow.

3 (1h 23m 57s):
That's a lot of money. Yeah. Yeah. Imagine what they've could have done with the money that they've already pumped into Ukraine. Just in the inner cities of this country. Yeah. Imagine, imagine if there was, we said there's a war on crime and poverty and despair. This is our new war instead of a war on drugs instead of a war on foreign countries. You know, questionable origins of how this conflict started. What about a war on the things that suck about America? Yeah.

4 (1h 24m 24s):
That's, that, that's what I mean. That's what happened in, in America in the 1920s. There was the New Deal, the social security gap, the GI Bill. They pumped loads of money into fixing America after the, the Great Depression. and it worked like there, there was the whole era in America, they call it the great compression because it was a compression between the gap between the rich and the poor. And that was the era in which a a an ordinary American person with a without a college degree could, could have a house and a car and a vacation every year. And a wife at home raising their children. Yeah.

3 (1h 24m 53s):
That's how it can work without socialism. Yeah. Like everybody rides up. Yeah. Not, not fucking take all the money away from the successful people. Yeah. You could rise up too, but we have to figure out a way to fix these problems that have existed forever in this country. Yeah. That get no attention. Yeah,

4 (1h 25m 9s):
Yeah,

3 (1h 25m 9s):
Yeah. This, at, at a certain point, like one of my favorite stories of this year, this year was when Xi Jing Ping came to San Francisco. Because when San Francisco has this horrible homeless problem, it's really bad. Where they have tents everywhere. Mm. But when he came, they cleaned everything. They took everybody away. They don't know whether nobody said nothing. They put up fences where they, so they couldn't put the tents there anymore. They put up fences in front of these buildings where the, they would camp out. They just took 'em all away. And then when Gigi Ping came through, it was all beautiful.

4 (1h 25m 38s):
It's amazing, isn't it?

3 (1h 25m 40s):
It's literally sounds like what we would say China would do. Yeah. When we would make, if we were gonna, we were gonna make fun of a foreign country that we were in dispute with, we would say. Yeah. And when we sent our leaders there, you know what they did? They fucking got rid of all the protestors. They, everybody was protesting. They killed the protestors. They, they took all the homeless people away, all the bums in the street urchins. This

4 (1h 26m 0s):
Say is what totalitarian looks like. Yeah.

3 (1h 26m 2s):
That's what totalitarianism looks like. Like that's what they did in San Francisco.

4 (1h 26m 4s):
Yeah. Yeah. That's hilarious.

3 (1h 26m 6s):
It's just, but the people that live there are so, in that cult, they're so in that leftist cult that they're never gonna go, Hey, this is not working.

4 (1h 26m 18s):
Doesn't

3 (1h 26m 18s):
Matter how many fucking needles you have to jump over how much human shit's in the street. They'll keep voting the same

4 (1h 26m 23s):
Way. Yeah. Because they have to believe what they have to believe in order for their peers to give them the,

3 (1h 26m 28s):
Your thoughts on this, the way you describe it is the only way that makes sense. It, it must be a status game that you can't get out of otherwise they would've gotten out of it. Yeah.

4 (1h 26m 37s):
Yeah. Yeah.

3 (1h 26m 38s):
It's, it's al it's counterintuitive to success and, and the evolution of the, the, the community. It's counterintuitive to it. Yeah.

4 (1h 26m 46s):
I mean, one of my favorite ones is the, the Satanic panic was an insane status game and thing. And, and, and so that, that began in the early eighties. And essentially what you're doing is you're saying to a bunch of therapists and family counselors that that that, that you can be a, a like a, like a incredible hero because America is full of these satanists running kindergartens. Yeah. And they're secretly abusing your children. And we need to go and hunt them out. And so, so because that belief gives them status, they, they all decide to believe it. And, and, and so, and, and the same with the police. The police think, they think they were like on the hunt for the, you know, these all local neighborhood

3 (1h 27m 28s):
Cops. They also memories into children's heads. Yeah. Yeah. And had those children come back and, and change their stories and That's right.

4 (1h 27m 34s):
I mean, and some of the, some of the stories that were, that came out that were believed it was like children were saying they had that eyelid stapled shot. There was one kid that said that she got flushed down a toilet into a, a secret under grand abuse chamber. Somebody said, how big is this

3 (1h 27m 50s):
Kid?

4 (1h 27m 50s):
That was it. It began with this book. Pa Michelle

3 (1h 27m 53s):
Remembers, Michelle remembers the discredited 1980s book written by Canadian psychiatrist Lawrence Pastor

4 (1h 27m 60s):
Yeahs won that began it all. Like she, she, she said that she, she was, she had devil horns and a tail surgically attached to her book.

3 (1h 28m 6s):
He married her. Did it I

4 (1h 28m 7s):
Know.

3 (1h 28m 7s):
Yeah. So an eventual wife. I bet she was hot. The crazy ones like that. I bet she was fun and I. That's what happened. He bought into it. He's like, yeah baby, it flushes on the toilet.

4 (1h 28m 18s):
He said, he said, at first I thought she was making out, but then I always thought it was true. And, and according to her story, there was an 81 day Satanic ritual where, where, where Jesus and the Archangel Gabriel turned up and conveniently removed all the scars of her abuse. There was, there was nothing left. Oh,

3 (1h 28m 33s):
That's convenient. Yeah. Yeah. I bet she was hot.

4 (1h 28m 35s):
But, but the amazing thing about the Satanic panic was that I think it was like there was 190 arrests, 83 people went to prison. Oh my God. One person went to prison on the, solely on the basis of the testimony of a 3-year-old child. Oh my

3 (1h 28m 48s):
God.

4 (1h 28m 48s):
So this one couple that owned a daycare spent 22 years in prison. And there was never, obviously never physical, any physical evidence. There was no tigers or sharks or, you know, scars in the eyelids where they step with 'em shark. But people, people were offered status to for believing this bullshit. So they believed it. And, and therapists, police officers, lawyers, judges. Oprah was big on it. Her and Rivera was big on it. Journalists were big on it. Everybody believed, even though there was no evidence, like one of the one, one of the great guiding slogans of the Satanic panic people was believe children. Which has amazing echoes, doesn't it?

3 (1h 29m 24s):
It does not today does. That's

4 (1h 29m 26s):
What they said. So you had to believe the children and, and they had this, they had this statistic that only two in every thousand children make this stuff up. So you have to believe them. So they'd even have badges believe children, they had the believe children organization

9 (1h 29m 40s):
Bothered about Dungeons and Dragon.

3 (1h 29m 42s):
What

9 (1h 29m 43s):
I

3 (1h 29m 43s):
Never heard. Can you show me a photo of the woman? Yeah. Yeah. I wanna see if she's hot. I bet she was. and I bet. It goes back to what you're talking about too though. Because I think status in his relationship with his woman Yeah. Allowed him to believe some nonsense.

4 (1h 29m 57s):
And also the $300,000 advance he got for

3 (1h 29m 60s):
Would No so much for my theory. Damnit. I hate when I'm wrong,

4 (1h 30m 7s):
But that's, that's the

3 (1h 30m 9s):
Fun.

4 (1h 30m 9s):
You know.

3 (1h 30m 10s):
But he was likely too though for him. That's probably as good as he gets. Right. You gotta judge it on a curve. I

9 (1h 30m 16s):
Don't know. Isn't this, is this her

3 (1h 30m 18s):
That's older, bro. No one looks great when they get old. Yeah. That's

4 (1h 30m 21s):
Not fair.

3 (1h 30m 22s):
That's not fair. You son of a bitch.

9 (1h 30m 24s):
Who is, but this, these are older pictures. She, she's a young woman here. These pictures. What

3 (1h 30m 29s):
Is the one when she's a young woman? The one up there in the corner? Is that when they first arrested her?

9 (1h 30m 35s):
Yeah. These are from the 80, lemme put it on the screen. These are from like the eighties or whatever this started, but whatever I was just looking at like this NPR brought up says Q anon revives the satanic panic. But who is this woman? Maybe that's her now. don don't know.

3 (1h 30m 49s):
The problem is some people are crazy and they will make up stories and then there's people that are just trapped in these witch hunts. Yeah. Like the, like the McCarthyism of the, the fifties. Yeah. Everyone was a communist. Yeah. I mean Oppenheimer got roped into that shit. Yeah. There's, there's so many people that were being accused of being communists. You went to one meeting like, what's this all about? Well that's

4 (1h 31m 11s):
It. And people call those moral panics, but don don't think they are moral panics. They're status gold rush. Right. You know, so the status on offer for finding Satanists was massive. They, like the government pumped tens of millions of dollars into these organizations. They became famous. Yep. There was one person who interviewed children who, who who got paid hundreds of thousands of dollars for into, and and they, and they, they're kids. So when they're saying, I got flushed down a toilet, I got a, a forced to kill baby tigers. It's clearly stuff that four year olds are inventing. Right. but it was taken to be serious and people went to prison for years on the basis of this testimony. And, and so, so that's that that, that's another thing that changed my thinking. It's idea of moral panics. I think often moral panics are actually just these status frenzy status kind of gold rush movements where there's so much status and offer for believing this nonsense that people helplessly.

4 (1h 31m 58s):
'cause that's how we're wired start to start to believe it.

3 (1h 32m 1s):
Boy, social media doesn't do us any favors with that, does it? No. No. The ability to just tweet out something the moment something hits the news or whatever. And your hot take on it. How many fucking people have lost their careers? Yeah. 'cause of a hot take. Yeah.

4 (1h 32m 14s):
Yeah. Exactly. I mean, that's the thing. I mean. You know, I was talking about those different kinds of status, virtue status success status virtue status is the easiest status to get. Success is hard. Right. You've got to become competent. You've got to become good at something. Virtue is easy. Right. Especially on social media. It, it's always so, so, so that's why it sort of becomes addictive. People just make themselves feel good. Get these little hits of feel good, but

3 (1h 32m 36s):
It's also indicative of who you are because no one is like really competent at something, is engaging in that All day long. Like that, that thing is usually by people that don't feel like they're getting the attention they deserve. Yeah. And then they'll go after whatever the fuck it is that absolutely can elevate them. Yeah. Whatever. It's whatever. Cause there is that du jour. Yes.

4 (1h 32m 58s):
You know,

3 (1h 32m 58s):
You have to fucking Yeah. That you get to either yell at people or yell with people. Yeah.

4 (1h 33m 2s):
And I and I think, for me, it's interesting, I dunno whether this is true or not, but one of my sort of pet theories is that the rise of all this social justice activism online happens after the financial crisis. So in, in 2008, it begins with the Occupy movement and you can sort of draw a straight line through Occupy to what's going on today. and I think there's a sense amongst millennials and Gen Zs partly a real true sense that the success games that we were playing in the eighties, nineties and 80 thousands are over now the game is fixed for, for millennials and gens. Gen Z's life is harder in lots of real ways. They can't go in the property ladder. They've got massive student debt. They're underemployed. So, so so what do you do if you can't play the success games that we Gen X has played in the nineties?

4 (1h 33m 44s):
Well, you play virtue games instead. So, you know, we have to get our status from somewhere. So if success is hard, we we are gonna do more virtue. Yeah. So, so I, I think that's at least part of the explanation for what's happened since, you know, that's the financial crisis was this, you know, the story that we were left with was that these people were, that were unpunished that that that the game is fixed. It's dangerous, it's, it's not working anymore. So there's a lot of anger, you know, comes out of that.

3 (1h 34m 10s):
Yeah. It's, it's just so unfortunate how easy it is to engage in this behavior and how few guidelines there are to like, other than your work. And some other people have talked about it, but it's like it, the way you're saying it and the way you're saying it in your book and the way you said it on trigonometry, it, it allows people to have like a look at the wiring under the board. Like, oh, this is what the problem is. and I would hope that people that are engaged in that realize like what a psychological capture that shit is. It's, it's so weird for you because you get, I've, I've had friends that have had like real problems with like engaging with people on, on Twitter.

3 (1h 34m 51s):
Like they'll, they'll post a hot take. Yeah. And then someone will post back and they'll be like walking down the street and they can't even walk five steps before they're checking. They wanna check their likes and check their thing and see who's responding and then respond to the person who's responding and fuck you and fuck this. And, and everybody's trying to zing on everybody. And it's, it's not good. It's not good in any way, shape or form. It never turns out well. There's never one of those. You go, I feel good about that. That was really

4 (1h 35m 14s):
Good. I definitely won that one. Yeah.

3 (1h 35m 16s):
Doesn't, not just that, but I feel like we got some good accomplished. No, that's, most of those are not that. Yeah. Most of those are hostile, weird, like unnatural ways of communicating. You're just communicating through text with strangers. Yeah. It's like so unnatural.

4 (1h 35m 31s):
And it is, it's I mean. That's what, that's what social media is. It's, it's they've, they've, they've taken the status games of life and put them in. Yeah. In your phone. I mean, and that's what like, like in the nineties, there was all this like from Wired magazine and people all this digital utopia and I thought that when we're all online it was gonna create this hierarchy free utopia, but Of course, that's not what happens when you connect billions of people together. Yeah. They play data schemes. That's what they do. And that those three games of dominance, virtue and success, that's social media. You know, we are pushing each other around. We are virtue signaling and we're showing off about our success. Yeah. That's what we're doing. And that's why, you know, that's why social media is so addictive. Because every time you make a contribution to social media, you're like pulling the wheel of that slot machine and gimme

3 (1h 36m 16s):
The

4 (1h 36m 16s):
Idea of status goes up or it goes down. And that's why they're doing this. 'cause it's, it's, it's compulsive because we are gambling with a resource that is in incredibly important to us.

3 (1h 36m 25s):
Yeah. And you can do so in a way that never existed before. Mm. Like if you're some guy who shredded and you just do fucking curls on, on Instagram All day, you'll get a lot of people that pay attention to you. Yeah, absolutely. You just have workouts with your shirt off. You'll get a lot of followers if you're a woman in her underwear rolling around, you know, on, on sheets and stuff. You get a lot of followers for doing not much else. And,

4 (1h 36m 48s):
And that's the, that that, that's the sort of the halting thing when I realized that actually, you know, status is a resource that we need. If we don't get enough status, we get mentally ill and we get physically ill too. So being low status is bad for us physically. And a lot of people have more status in their phones than they do in their actual real life. You know, they're going to their ordinary job in their ordinary town, but on this platform, they're really someone. They've got a bunch of followers. So, so, so it's, that's, that shows you how, you know, why social media is so powerful. It's like, it's been globally successful in every culture. Social media is caught on because it's offering something that humans fundamentally value enormously and need to survive.

4 (1h 37m 28s):
Which is, which is status. It's a new way of harvesting this incredibly valuable resource that we value more than gold. You know,

3 (1h 37m 36s):
When you say that people get physically ill from it, like, what happens to people when they don't get status physically? Well,

4 (1h 37m 41s):
It's the same as, I think it's quite well known that loneliness is bad for us, but loneliness is, connection status is the same. So there, there was a bunch of really interesting experiments done in the uk in the British Civil Service, which is a massive organization, hugely stratified. And this guy, Dr. Michael Marmer and his team went in there to f and they, they found that your place in the hierarchy predicted your health outcomes. And this wasn't to do with how healthy you were in other respects, or it wasn't to do with your diet, you know, where they controlled for all of that stuff. Literally, the person one down from the very top had slightly worse health outcomes from the person at the very top. And they were really significant. So for middle-aged people, the people at the bottom of the hierarchy had four times the risk of death and the people at the top of the hierarchy.

4 (1h 38m 26s):
Wow. And then they, and then other academics went into the lab and they did an experiment with, with monkeys, I think baboons. And they gave these monkeys, these delicious diets of like pizza and ice cream. They basically made them really unhealthy. So filled them with atherosclerotic plaque and figured and tried to work out who got sick and who didn't get sick as a result of their terrible diets. and it was, it was the peop the monkeys at the bottom of the hierarchy got, got sick more, you know, more reliably than the people, than the monkeys at the top and

3 (1h 38m 52s):
Even found the ter same terrible diet.

4 (1h 38m 54s):
Yeah. And, and, and crucially they then, they then somehow changed the hierarchy and the health outcomes changed in long lockstep. So, so the monkey that wasn't the,

3 (1h 39m 3s):
How did they change the hierarchy? I

4 (1h 39m 4s):
Know I, don Dunno. They did that I know, because

3 (1h 39m 6s):
That's seems like,

4 (1h 39m 7s):
I probably don't want to know. It's probably really horrific because Well,

3 (1h 39m 9s):
'cause with monkeys, like how

4 (1h 39m 10s):
Do you pull that off? Yeah. So, so, so it is, it's the, it's the, it's the status hierarchy. And, and, and it's for the same reason as loneliness. When the brain registers that we are, that we are, we are lacking in the resource of status. It puts us into that stress state of raises, inflammation, lowers antiviral response. And we're not designed to be in that state for long periods of time. It's that that's a, that's a, a response that's designed for being, you know, being chased or attacked. It's supposed to be like this. Mm. And so chronic inflammation is really bad for us. It makes us more vulnerable to, you know, cancer, Alzheimer's, all kinds of horrific issues. So, so that's why lacking in status is, is bad for our physical health, is the same reasons why loneliness is bad for our physical health.

3 (1h 39m 52s):
And it has to play a role in what gets diagnosed as depression then. Oh,

4 (1h 39m 56s):
Status is massive for depression. A sudden drop in status is a, is a red flag for, for suicide ideation. And we suddenly drop in status. So, so, so, you know, anxiety, depression, self-harm, I is all tied to feeling sort of low in status. And in my, in my spare time, I volunteered back in the UK for a, a, a, like a crisis hotline. People phone it, particularly when they're suicidal.

3 (1h 40m 22s):
Oh man, what a great thing. If someone's suicidal, they get ahold of you. That's a cool conversation. You know, some people, they'd be droning on and on like, bro, you're not inspiring. Help me out.

4 (1h 40m 33s):
Well, what I found is that the people who are suicidal who call me, there's there, there's generally three reasons why people get suicidally in my experience on the phones. The first one is chronic pain people, obviously. Second one is, people struggle with recent bereavement. People become suicidal when somebody they love or a pet they love has gone. But the, by far, the most common reason people phone when I've spoken to a suicidal, is to do with their, now I call it identity failure. They, they, they've, they're, they're severely lacking in connection or status. Usually both. And not only are they lacking, they're stuck. They're trapped. They feel like there's nothing I can do. My life is so fucked. There's no way I can ever meet anybody. There's no way I can ever feel status full in the world.

4 (1h 41m 15s):
And, and so, so, so yeah. This is, it's, it's a massive red flag for, you know, that's, that's, that's a, a huge reason why humans choose to end their lives. Because they, they, they feel like I, I'm, I'm severely lacking in connection, in status.

3 (1h 41m 29s):
This is such an important thing to talk about because this is never discussed. When people talk about depression, all they ever want to tell you is that it's a chemical problem. It's not your fault. That's all they ever wanna tell you. Yeah. They don't want to tell you that The quality of your life affects the way you feel. And if you're doing what you want to do, and you have good friends and you're having fun times and you're a good person, you're nice to people, they're nice back, they like being around you 'cause you're fun, then your life is better.

4 (1h 41m 55s):
But that's connection. Yeah. Status is also really, you know, it's, it is, it's rooted essential in Yeah.

3 (1h 41m 59s):
It's a, it's a big part of that. And all of that contributes to this thing that we call depression.

4 (1h 42m 4s):
Absolutely.

3 (1h 42m 4s):
Yeah. And no one wants to say that. They wanna say, get on this, come on man, we got something for you buddy. Yeah.

4 (1h 42m 11s):
Pop this.

3 (1h 42m 12s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 42m 12s):
Come Will. It's, it's crazy because, because it seems so obvious. It seems so obvious. It

3 (1h 42m 17s):
Does. But you can't bring it up. No. It's almost like it's a eb boden topic. Like, you, you can't say, well, how much of it is like what you're doing with your life. Yeah. Does that factor in at all? How much of it is like, kind of friends you're in? What kind of relationship do you in

4 (1h 42m 29s):
Exactly. I mean? One of the things I do because of my knowing about status, but I'm on the phone with these people, is I always make the point of, at the end of the call, trying to build them up a bit. You know, I tell them, and I mean it sincerely. That that, that the fact that they phoned in this what is probably the worst night of their life is heroic. That they're courageous. Yeah. That most, most people don't suffer. Like you are suffering. And, and you know, so, so, so what you're, you know, like I, these, and it always, it always goes down. Well, they always go, oh my God, wow. You know, no one's ever said that stuff to me before. Like, it's like a, you know, it's magic, the effect it has on the phones when you just give people a bit of, I think you're an impressive person. I think you are kind, I think you're smart, or whatever it is that I feel Yeah.

4 (1h 43m 12s):
They are on the phones. And there, there was a, there was a case recently in, in the UK a teacher, a head teacher Killed herself when her school was inspected by the government inspectors. and it went down from outstanding to inadequate. Oh God. You know, and she, she, she killed herself. And, and they f they found her journals from like the day before she did that. And, and she said, she said in the journal, the words inadequate, keep flashing before my eyes. Oh, I mean, so that's, yeah. That when, so that's, that's horrific. It was a big scandal about, oh, you know, are these judgements? Can we really reduce a judgment of the quality of the school to one word. But, but, but that was an example of somebody, her, you know, her problem was that she was really proud of the school she was running.

4 (1h 43m 55s):
It was an outstanding school. And suddenly it went to inadequate. And the pain of that sudden loss of status was too much for this poor woman to,

3 (1h 44m 2s):
Was it an accurate statement or was, was it don don't know. Was the school doing poorly for some reason? Or was it just a cunty person?

4 (1h 44m 10s):
That, that's the question.

3 (1h 44m 12s):
That's the problem with ness. Right? Yeah. We kind of tolerate that kind of communication with people. And we, we look in and we watch from a side like, whoa, you know, but there's something to that. That is, you, you really are pumping out negativity. It does have an actual effect on human beings on the other end. As much as you like to pretend it's some sort of a sterile professional act that you're doing, you, you're, that's it. Yeah. You're pumping out shitty things. I mean, and you're doing it for status. Right. And

4 (1h 44m 38s):
We, well, when you take someone's status away, like they took her status away. Yeah. You are. I feel if it is like an act of social violence, like our, our identity is of massive importance to us. And so when someone takes that away, that's why acts of actual physical violence, while they often happen, is when someone is disrespectful to somebody else. Yes. And the act of physical violence doesn't only restore that status back to its sort of set point. It turns that humiliation into a sense of pride, you know? Yes. You know, so, so, so that's why violence is so tempting. It's why if you, if you have the capacity for violence, it, it's often used 'cause 'cause it, it can transform that sense of humiliation into a sense of pride. It turns a negative status into a positive status.

4 (1h 45m 19s):
And, and yes,

3 (1h 45m 20s):
The key is to have enough faith that you don't care. Yeah. You have to have enough where you don't mind some little breach of your status. You're like, oh, really? Someone disrespects you. You don't have to prove to them, because you have to understand what game you're playing. Most people don't what the consequences of violence or grave. Like, you do not want to engage in this, this pattern of behavior that people have locked into their brain. Most of the time we don't use it. You know, the vast majority of human history, they used it a lot.

4 (1h 45m 54s):
Yes. Yeah, it did. Yeah.

3 (1h 45m 56s):
That again, is carved into your brain. Yeah. You must resist. Yeah. You know, in any

4 (1h 46m 2s):
Way. And most, most sort of violent acts, it sort of concentrates in young men who are lower on the socioeconomic scale. So they're, they're people who are more aggressive by nature, physically. 'cause they're, they're built for that. But, but, but their socioeconomic stuff, they

3 (1h 46m 18s):
Feel slighted. Yeah.

4 (1h 46m 19s):
Well, they, their, their sense of status is much more fragile because they're, they, they haven't got some great job. They haven't got a college education. And so they're much more worried about the insecure, about their sense of status. So when you take it away from them, it's, it's, it, it, it's kind of much more that's

3 (1h 46m 33s):
Challenging. That's a real danger. The Status Game of telling those people that someone's done this to you. Mm. And that those people, those people should not be heard from. Mm. You know? Yeah. Those people, the, the reason why you're in the situation that you're in, when you're empowering people to hate someone, specifically because of the way they look, no matter what you think, the justifications of that, it's the exact same thing in every culture when that happens. It's just racism.

4 (1h 46m 59s):
Yeah, absolutely.

3 (1h 46m 60s):
It's all, it's, yeah. And you can, and you're getting trapped into it because of what you're talking about. 'cause it's a status game. And you could, you could dominate someone by calling them out because of their privilege. And you could stop a conversation in its tracks and become completely illogical just by deciding I'm not listening to a white man. Yes.

4 (1h 47m 20s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 47m 20s):
That,

4 (1h 47m 20s):
That, that's absolutely right. It's interesting. That's absolutely true.

3 (1h 47m 23s):
It's interesting 'cause it's like, it's the oldest trick in the book. It's been around for so long, and we would think that we would learn, but there's something about us where we don't see the exact same thing. If it's not Nazis with swastikas, we don't see it coming. That's

4 (1h 47m 39s):
It. Well, I, I think what I, again, it's that story heading brain. We are playing a status game. But, but, but we, our conscious experience of life is a story. And it's, it's this fiction and the story always wants, wants to make us heroic. So we are virtuous and I think that makes people's hatreds are invisible to them. So you, you, you, you could say to somebody, and I have said to somebody relatively recently, you know, I think you hate men. You've, you've got a problem with men. You're always saying this about men and that about men. Like, it's, it's, it's not very nice. And then she said to me, well, you don't understand the problems I've had in my life with men. I've been abused. I've been this, that and the other. All of which is true. But but so that's her brain telling herself a heroic, virtuous story that justifies her, her hatred of this class of human beings.

4 (1h 48m 24s):
And that's true for everybody. That's true for people who hate women. And that's also true for misogynists. That's true for, you know, white people who hate black people. Yeah. That's true. For everybody's hatred is dressed up in a virtuous story. and I and I think that's right. As soon as you start Identifying a class of human being and saying, these people are low status, these people are the source of my problems. That's when, when, you know, that's happening to you. And you know, at some point it happens to all of us. It it's human nature. We are xenophobic by design, you know, our groups, our status games, we feel we are wire to feel their superior because they're our source of status. So this stuff is incredibly tempting. Like, I, like I, I, you know, like I, you know, we, we've all fallen for this stuff in our, in if we're honest in, in our past.

4 (1h 49m 10s):
Yeah. and I think it's just really important just to be on the lookout for it and, and, and to be conscious of the fact that our brains are really good at turning our hatreds into a virtue. They're really good at telling us, no, you are right, you are right. These people are, are the problem. And your animus towards them is actually a good thing. It's heroic.

3 (1h 49m 30s):
Boy, what a weird fucking programming that we have. Yeah.

4 (1h 49m 33s):
Well, it's pure tribalism, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah.

3 (1h 49m 36s):
It's just, it's, it's so Bazar to see how baked in that is, you know, and, and even with really well intentioned, highly educated people, you know, they just get sucked into it.

4 (1h 49m 51s):
Well, especially they, they I mean, you probably know about the studies that show that intelligence is no inoculation to this stuff. Yeah. So, so, so, so being more intelligent doesn't make you any better at finding reasons why your stories about the world are false. Right. but it does make you better at finding reasons why they're true. So really smart people can give you 10 reasons why they're justified in their hatred of this, that, and the other. Whereas somebody less smart can only give you like three or four. So, so, so, so, so intelligence is no inoculation to this stuff. And if anything it makes it, it makes, makes it kind of worse. I mean, one of my, the stories that I wrote in one of my books called The Heretics, was I was hanging out with this guy David Irving.

4 (1h 50m 31s):
Do you know David Irving? No. So David Irving was, is a, was a really well respected historian of the Second World War. And he just decided one day that Hitler was actually in his words, a friend of the Jews. And Yeah, that's what he said. And, and he had no idea the Holocaust had happened and it was all done by his subordinates. Yeah. Yeah. He's been to prison for his, for his, for his antisemitic beliefs. Like, like, but he was really respected. Like the reason we know about Dresden, the firebombing of Dresden was because of his scholarship. I think even his thought has five, he's mentioned positively. And so he's completely excommunicated now from his, from the historical, you know, establishment. He, he, he, he, he believes this stuff so passionately that, that, that he was kind of offered the opportunity to withdraw his opinions in an Austrian court.

4 (1h 51m 18s):
It's in his seventies. This was, and he refused and went to, he went to prison in his seventies. And so what I did, wow. Because in, in my book, the, the Heretics, it's called the Un Persuadables in the US it was about why people believe crazy things and the stories that we tell and I wanted to, it's hang out with him because he's an incredibly intelligent man who has this fucking mad, you know, beliefs about, about the world. And so what I did was, in order to make money at the time he was selling these tours of Holocaust sites. So you, you could pay two and a half grand and go for a week with him on these tour. And he would give you the real inver history of what actually happened in these places. And where

3 (1h 51m 57s):
Was he getting this information from? Supposedly?

4 (1h 51m 58s):
Well, I mean he was from the archives. I mean it was his own scholarship. But he was doing that thing that, you know, he was finding his own interpretations of this scholarship.

3 (1h 52m 8s):
And what did he say about like, the trenches filled with bodies?

4 (1h 52m 11s):
Oh, well, I mean, he, he went through a period of outright Holocaust denial, which, which he then kind of repented. And, and, and the reason that, that he, he, he, his, his flirtation with outright Holocaust denial was based on this study. This guy, this guy, he took a chip out of the wall of one of the gas chambers and had it analyzed. And he said, is this

3 (1h 52m 30s):
A doctor death thing? I

4 (1h 52m 32s):
Don't, I don't think so.

3 (1h 52m 33s):
It was a documentary on this guy, Dr. Death, who was a guy who made execution equipment in the United States. And he got roped up with this holocaust in our group. And they sent him to Auschwitz to examine the, and he, and he said that it didn't show any of the signs of gas.

4 (1h 52m 49s):
No. The, the, the one that got Irving was that, was that this person said, well, the amount of toxins in this concrete isn't even enough to kill a cockroach. But what what he didn't understand was that cockroach is, are really unbelievably good at surviving. And it's much easier to kill a human than a cockroach. Well,

3 (1h 53m 6s):
Not only that, that stuff subsides into the, we looked at it the other day. Yeah, right. That stuff subsides into the atmosphere very quickly. Like if you, if you used it in a room and then opened up the doors, it would go into the atmosphere very quickly.

4 (1h 53m 17s):
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, I mean, but I mean to be fair to Irving. 'cause he did, he did admit that, that he'd made a mistake there. But he's still a, a, a, a deeply, deeply anti-Semitic man. I mean, when, when I was talking to him.

3 (1h 53m 29s):
So he was from the beginning and then that flavored his Holocaust denial. Well,

4 (1h 53m 34s):
It was weird. What, what what I got from him was that he actually was somebody that is very pro British empire and I think he liked Hitler like his families. He, his history goes back to, you know, he is all very embedded in the British empire. And, and he, and he, he blamed Hitler for, he, he liked Hitler. 'cause Hitler was modeling the third rike on the British Empire. And we had to kind of relinquish empire to pay for the Second World War or something. So he, so that, that was my sense. But, but more interesting than Irving with the people that, because the people that were on the tour were actual proper Nazis. Like they had proper Nazi tattoos. Jesus, like, full on. and I was undercover. So I had to pretend that I was also like them.

4 (1h 54m 14s):
It was kind of a scary week, but one of the most Did you

3 (1h 54m 18s):
Get to talk to any of them?

4 (1h 54m 19s):
All of them. I was hanging out with 'em. I was on holiday with them. I was at a coach with them and gay men. Yeah. Like it was, what are they?

3 (1h 54m 24s):
Like?

4 (1h 54m 25s):
They're so weird. So they're, they're all men. They I mean, I write about this in the book. I hesitate to to say it, but, but, but I do write about it that they were quite nice. So, so, so, so, so this

3 (1h 54m 42s):
Is, you're still British.

4 (1h 54m 44s):
So, so, so this is the, this is the weird thing. Okay. So what happened was, I interviewed David Irving on day one. And, and you know, at the time I was a guardian journalist. I couldn't hide my disdain for him. and it, and I, I kind of fucked up. I I let it be known through my line of questioning that I felt he was a racist lunatic. So he kinda walked off. and I was kind of panicking because I was thinking, I've not got enough material for my book. I need to interview him again. and I was talking to the Nazis about Ahha freaking out. And then it, and then the person organizing the tour, I kept hassling and saying, I need to speak to David again. I need to speak to David again. And she said to me, oh, you know, you might not know this, but that all the boys have got together. And in your lectures at the end of the day, they're all asking questions, asking David questions that they think are gonna be useful and helpful for your book, because they think you've been really badly treated.

4 (1h 55m 27s):
and I just thought, that's so nice of this, isn't it? I know. But that's the thing. They, they, and that's what I write about in the book. It's like the, the idea that these are monsters that's storytelling. They're just blokes who've made a mistake about the world. And what was most interesting about that was that the majority of those men had parents that had fought for the Nazis in the Second World War. So there was one guy, and the last night of the, of the, of the, of the trip, they were gonna have the showing of the, you know, the film downfall, the super, do you know the film downfall? No. As a German film, it was incredible. It's a super realistic account of the last seven days of Hitler's life in the Hitler bunker. It's an incredible, incredible film. It's all, it's all set in the bunker.

4 (1h 56m 9s):
And so Irving was gonna show downfall and give his alternative take on what was really going on. And one of these guys couldn't watch downfall because his dad was in the bunker with Hitler. And he found it too upsetting. Wow. And that was a big light bulb moment for me. So my, my takeaway from that was that these David Irving aside, these guys had all been brought up by parents who were proper Nazis and obviously Nazis a synonym for evil. And they couldn't cope with the fact that their dads probably moms perhaps as well were evil. So they'd, so they, they'd kind of gone on this lifelong mission to convince themselves that the Holocaust was this kind of fabrication and that none of it actually happened.

4 (1h 56m 52s):
Wow. So the stories that in brain kicks in, they couldn't allow themselves to believe this horrific thing about their parents who they adored and looked up to. And probably their parents had filled their head with some of this stuff too. You know, knowing

3 (1h 57m 2s):
What you know about our desire for status and how that's just impossible to remove from the, the human mind and the, and human society. Do you think that we could have like a warning guidebook for human beings the same way the Constitution is sort of a warning guidebook to establish a republic? Like let's make some real clear checks and balances, and let's make sure that the senators and the Congress people and all this stuff gets in place and judicial branch and they planned it out to make sure that one person couldn't just kind of take over and run it. It feels like we should have guidelines specifically that we teach people at an early age to recognize that and call it out when you see it and go, no, no, no, no, no.

3 (1h 57m 51s):
Yeah. This is not, you know, I know what you're doing. Like you're, you're hijacking this for your own good. Yeah. And we know when people do it, we can't say it. Yeah. 'cause if they attach themselves to a virtuous cause what are you criticizing? Blank, you know, like Yeah. What are you a Nazi, a racist, a trans pho, whatever it is. Yeah. It's like we should be able to see those outside of the merits of the ideas that we're discussing. Whatever we're discussing, whatever it is, it's some sort of public social issue that everybody's debating. We should be able to discuss it outside of this status trap. Yeah. Where if you yell this, everybody goes Yeah.

3 (1h 58m 31s):
Or yell that that should be childlike. Yeah. We should like shun people to do that and teach people at a fucking really early age not to do it. And it's hard to learn because there's no precedent. It's not like there's like, you know, a hundred years of history on how to use the internet property. Nobody knows. Yeah. They're just doing it because it seems like a thing to do that makes you feel good, gives you a little shitty dopamine spike. And so they just dive in. But if we could explain to people when they're very young, when they're impressionable, these are patterns that human beings fall into. And this is why they do these things that you think they're, they're being mean or they're being bullies. This is why these are all the patterns.

3 (1h 59m 13s):
Yeah. And so the kids could get it in their head and maybe they could stop doing it while they're doing it at a young age and learn better patterns. And then as they get older, just sort of like have a much more rational way of interfacing with people.

4 (1h 59m 24s):
Yeah. I think so. I think, I think, I think we should be taught this stuff. I mean, one, one of the things that I took away from this was that you get this idea about fascism and totalitarians, how that happens is that these evil people you come marching in and forcing everybody to believe certain things. Yeah. But when you look at, say, the rise of the Nazis, fascists, totalitarians, they don't go in and force you to do anything. They tell you stories that you want to hear. They flatter you into, you know, that's what the Nazis did. They, they, they, they told the Germans, you are right. They're wrong. We are gonna get you what you deserve, and we're gonna take it out on these people that who, whose fault It is. So, so, so, so, so this, you know, this, this fascist government, this this, this horrific episode in our history.

4 (2h 0m 7s):
It, it, it, it didn't begin with force. It began with telling people's stories and stories that they wanted to hear simplistic stories about, status about, you are wrong, it's their fault. We are gonna, I'm going to give you what you know, we're gonna make Germany great again. Yeah. And you know, people, people love that stuff. I mean, the, the, the other thing that I think is that people that, that people sort of need to hear at the moment, I suppose is about you can't take the status away from a group of people and expect no pushback. So that, you know, that, that that's why Trump got voted in. Because since the sixties, the left have stopped caring about the white working class in poverty and started caring much more about minorities and women for lots of very good reasons, obviously.

4 (2h 0m 47s):
But, but, but when you ignoring a group and they feel disparaged and, and, and the real working wages for the white working class in America has fallen since the, since the sixties. Their quality of life has, has plummeted. They're gonna react. and it is the same way that I feel that we, that we are treating young men at the moment. You can't raise a, a generation of young men in an environment where, where you take all their status away and not expect them to react. Yeah. So people worry about, oh my god, Andrew Tate, how are people flocking to these, the, the these men that I I know anything about Andrew Tate. But, you know, say he's a misogynist. What, how, how could it be that the are young men are, are flocking to this individual? It's because you are calling them a, you know, you're calling them names.

4 (2h 1m 28s):
You are re you are removing their status. So you can't, you know, the left need to understand, you can't disparage and dismiss and insult these entire categories of people. and I speak as a lifelong lefting person. Yeah. You can't do that and not expect some pushback.

3 (2h 1m 43s):
My friend Duncan said that about the pandemic. Mm. When the, the people on the left were attacking all the people on the right. He said, dude, this is gonna lead to a totalitarian right wing government. Mm. He goes, watch what this happens. Yeah. Watch what happens because all these people on the left are going crazy. It's like, and I saw the, the riots and shutting down the streets and he was like, oh, this is gonna lead to a totalitarian right wing government because it's gonna be the opposite reaction to this.

4 (2h 2m 7s):
Yeah, yeah. Yes. Exactly. So the the end, the the, the harder one hits, the harder the response and then the harder they hit back and it Yeah. and it ratchets up till civil war. The resurrect fuck with the rhetoric ratchets up. Doesn't it I mean that that, that that's what happens. It's, it it is potentially dangerous.

3 (2h 2m 22s):
It's potentially very dangerous. And it's not dangerous right here yet, right now. No. but it is in, if you're in Gaza Yeah, it certainly is. If you're in Ukraine, it certainly is in other parts of the world where they convince people that these people are the bad people and we're the good people and go get 'em. Whew. Yeah. And then there's the reality of bad people. Yes. Exactly. What do you do about them? I mean you can't just ignore the fact that there's terrorists out there. Yeah. Like you gotta look at all of it. Yeah. You gotta, the whole thing is fucking nuts. And if we can recognize patterns and how people fall into patterns, I think we can have less nuts. Just like this has to be established like at a young age. Yeah. You gotta get it into, it's hard for people once they've become set in their ways, and especially if they're like politically active or socially active online and they're really kind of addicted to it, that's really where they get their ja jollies from.

3 (2h 3m 8s):
If you just tell 'em right now, you gotta cut that out. Like, what am I gonna do for 10 hours a day? Yeah. Yeah. That's literally what I do. You know, that's one of my things that I've always gone back and forth in my head about is universal basic income. Mm. One part of me is always like, you know what, if people just had enough money for food and shelter, then they could go do what they want to do. They could chase their dreams and pursue their dreams. The other part is me is like, yeah, but then they're not gonna have any incentive to do anything. They're gonna have their food taken care of, they're gonna have their shelter taken care of, and they're just gonna fucking, there's gonna be a certain percentage of people that are never gonna get their ass going. Hmm. They're never gonna, they're, we're gonna miss wasted potential of people who could have pulled their life together and become something really special by overcoming these Bazar obstacles that lead you to success in any given field.

3 (2h 3m 56s):
But if all of a sudden you, you have all your food taken care of and your shelter taken care of, and you just wanna sit there and you're okay, but you see, like, you have no, there's a certain amount of people that need a little something to get them going. Yeah. And a lot of like really ambitious people came from poverty. Yeah. And it's because when they were young, they didn't have shit. And then they figured out that there's, you gotta work harder and you gotta go after things.

4 (2h 4m 19s):
But I think we all have different personalities and, and people are gonna respond to poverty in different ways. And some people have a particular personality where they're wired more for the p pursuit status where they're gonna go fuck this. Right. It's not, you know, a certain percentage

3 (2h 4m 30s):
Are gonna go for it. They're gonna use it and they're gonna chase their dreams. Yeah.

4 (2h 4m 33s):
And my, so my argument is a, is a bit as a, as a, as a lefty is is that a lot, lot of that is genetic and, and can't be helped. So Really? Yeah. Yeah. So genetic. Yeah. How so? Like, so, so you know, ballpark figure 50% of who we are is, is genetics. So, so we all have different personality types. Right. And so if you're extrovert, that's a good thing in our neoliberal market economy. 'cause you're sociable, you're ambitious. If you are low in agreeableness, that's also a good thing. I, in our particular environment, 'cause you are competitive. But if, but if you are not those things and if you have a low iq and if you are, then, then you are, you, you, you know, you are gonna struggle massively to compete in, in the world today.

4 (2h 5m 18s):
So my argument is that, is that those people deserve some help. You know, those, those people deserve a, a social safety net because there's no such thing as a pure meritocracy. 'cause we're not, we don't, human brains don't roll off the production line at Foxcon. We're all wired differently with different talents. And the fact is, some people have low IQs, some people have personalities which are antisocial, which mean that they can't get on in human groups, they lose their temper. And we can try and help those people, but you can't completely rewire those people. Like, it's impossible, for example, to turn an extrovert into an introvert because of, you know, because a, a lot of that is genetic. Like we are born with these semi-finished brains. So, so genes aren't fate, but they do set us in a certain direction.

4 (2h 6m 0s):
And most of the rest of that kind of creation of self happens when we're young in the first 20 years of life. And it's mostly sort episodes of life over, over which we have no control. So by the time we're in our twenties, early twenties, we're kind of who we are. There's not much that's gonna change us in a dramatic sense apart from serious trauma. So, so I think that's why we, you know, that idea of neoliberalism with cushions, I think there are categories of people that are always gonna need our help through no fault of their own because they're just not equipped biologically to deal with this hyper competitive world that we are all bought into these days.

3 (2h 6m 38s):
What percentage of people that do have the potential to break out of that won't because of a social assistance net? That's a little bit too comfortable. Well,

4 (2h 6m 48s):
I, I, I think

3 (2h 6m 49s):
Is there a percentage that we're gonna lose?

4 (2h 6m 52s):
I don't know. But but, but I think what we need to have is, and I think that's why education is so important, because a good school system will find those incredible talented people. Yeah. Like my father was from a family of bricklayers going back generations and he had a scholarship to Oxford University. You know, you, you, you yeah. A a great school system discovers those people and motivates them and tells 'em you could have an incredible staff if you just do a bit of work. If you've got an excellent mind and an excellent personality. And, and I and I think that's the, that's the job of the school system is to, is to, is to, is to find those people and give them the very best education they can possibly have. And again, that's a, that's a welfare kinda social safety net.

4 (2h 7m 35s):
Oh yeah. Tax a big sort of slightly bigger tax thing.

3 (2h 7m 37s):
That certainly is. But the idea of just straight money and housing. Oh, right. Yeah. That's what I'm talking about. Yeah. Straight money and housing is a different kind of social safety net. and I think that there's a real good argument for what you're saying that some people are just, they just don't have the tools. But then there's also a good argument that some people have never been given the opportunity to excel in a thing that they're interested in because they never really found a thing they're interested in. It's just getting, there's some people that were like, led very unspectacular lives and then they found this one thing and they got really good at that one thing and became a superstar at it. And they'll, they'll tell you, you know, I was 28 years old, I was just kind of fucking around one day with my friends. And then I really got into it and then I started chasing.

3 (2h 8m 19s):
And then next thing you know, like, this guy's like a, like a famous person in the field or whatever it is that happens, that does happen, but it probably happens less if you have everything taken care of. So there's a bunch of things going on. There's people that are kind of hopeless unfortunately. And maybe that is a genetic thing. Maybe at least some of them. It is a genetic thing. But then there's also people that are uninterested and maybe uninspired and maybe they just, maybe it's not as simple as them going to school. It's this maybe like seeing someone around you that lives life in a way that you admire someone who's like, I wanna be like that guy, or I wanna be like her. Like, what is that?

3 (2h 9m 0s):
And where, how do you get that to people? 'cause that's a big factor. That's a giant factor in who you become as a, an adult human being. It's like, who are you exposed to as a child?

4 (2h 9m 11s):
Absolutely. Yeah. So there, there's a really great academic, he may even been on this, I dunno, called Joseph Henrich. He's done lots of work in how we operate in groups. And he, he, he's done this research that shows that those people that we kind of glom onto esp, you know, especially when we're young, but, but we never stopped doing it. There, there are various cues in our environment that we subconsciously se seek out to mimic people. One of them is similarity. So, so, so we identify people who are a bit like us, so men are more likely to glom onto men, women, women, that kind of thing. And then there's, there's other various cues. There's like skill cues. So if we see somebody's really competent at something, we will be, you know, we, we, we'll start to mimic them and copy them.

4 (2h 9m 54s):
They're success cues. So the, the, the symbols of success, so the fast car or in the tribal context, the, the necklace of teeth. And then, and then the other one is prestige cues. So if we see lots of other people attending to one person, we'll also attend to them. And then they, the, the psychologist called this the Paris Hilton Effect, where the more people look at somebody, the more people look at them and it just goes into this runaway thing and you get some duck Paris Hilton who's got no apparently skill for anything who becomes globally famous. So, so, so that, so that, so the brain's always looking for these people to sort of identify and then copy and, and the logic is that these people are high status.

4 (2h 10m 35s):
They, they, they, they, they've worked at how to earn status in the game that we are playing. And so by copying them, we too will learn and, and, and rise in status. Mm. So I guess that's just a long wind winded way of saying that role models are really important and I think that's why we see, you know, the government always worries about issues of like street gangs in socioeconomic low, low, you know, in poor places Yeah. Jihadist groups. I i in those places. Yeah. And the reason we have street gangs in jihadist groups isn't because boys will be boys and they're naughty, they're criminals, they're monsters, they're naughty it. Yeah. It's because they need status. And so if you are a, if you're a young man growing up in a horrible estate in South London, and you are 14 years old and you want status and you've got a choice, they're gonna work in the supermarket stuck in shelves, or I'm gonna become a drug dealer and drive a Ferrari, what are you gonna choose?

4 (2h 11m 23s):
Yeah. So, so, so, so that's what society needs to figure out. It's kind of what you were saying is, is that, is that we need to give young people, especially in lower socioeconomic groups, more opportunities to earn status. I mean, that's one of the things about being middle class, is you get all those opportunities to earn status. You get education, you go to college, you can choose all these careers, but poorer people just don't have those opportunities. And so I think you're right. I think lives are wasted. Human value is wasted because those opportunities just aren't made for young people.

3 (2h 11m 53s):
You ever listen to Gang Star? No. Gang star has a song about it called Just to Get a Rep.

4 (2h 11m 58s):
Oh really?

3 (2h 11m 59s):
Yeah. It's all about people doing things just to get a reputation. Yeah, yeah,

4 (2h 12m 4s):
Yeah. There, there, there was a, a, a guy in the seventies who went to this. It was Nigerian Africa, and there used to be this ro like a, like a run by the royals. So aristocratic rulers. And then these Jihadists came in and just got rid of them all. And he was curious, this guy, his name is Bascom. I think that what Jerome Bascom, why is it that Islam is really popular in this place? Because it, they should, he should be hated because they've, they've swept away everybody's status games, the existing status games they were playing. So he went in and he, and he met two former, like descendants of the royal royalty. And one of them was a, a a peanut cellar.

4 (2h 12m 45s):
And he was miserable and he was kinda stooped and depressed and struggled in his marriage and was bitter because he used to be this big man and now he was nothing. And the other guy had gone into, you know, the Islamic, the Muslim The, Status Game of Islam. And he, you know, he learned the Koran by the age of 16, which is very prestigious. So he was killing it. And yeah. And so, so, so, so he was killing it. So he, he, he was proud. He had multiple wives, he was happy. So he wasn't wealthy, but he was happy. So he, so he said, you know, that's why Islam was popular in, in that place. It's because he was offering a, a new and functional status game. So when you've got nothing, you, you find a game to play if you want to be successful in your own mind and in your own, in your own health.

4 (2h 13m 31s):
And, and, and so that, that's how Islam became so popular and successful there. And that's how, you know how religion's become popular generally. They offer people who have not much else reliable parts of the status.

3 (2h 13m 44s):
Yeah. That's why they try to squash 'em as quick as they can in this country when new ones pop up. Yeah. Thus Waco, you know? Yeah. And thus so many of them.

4 (2h 13m 52s):
Well that's what ha again, that's what happens in under communism and Nazis. One of the first things they do is they get rid of all the other rival status games. Yeah. Like a big one in the Soviet Union was the, the, the Christians, you know, they, they, they would torture and kill them. Yeah. Yeah. Because it was, because, and it still in China today, Uyghurs Yeah. It's, they see religions a rival status game and you can't have that in a big totalitarian state.

3 (2h 14m 17s):
Yeah. The Uyghur one's a crazy one. Right. Because it's hard to get information about what exactly is going on. What are they making these people do. Yeah. It's such a strange subject in that it's so pivotal. It's, it's so crucial to understanding how human beings behave and what we do, but yet it's so rarely addressed. Yeah. Instead they look at all the symptoms. Yeah. Everybody looks at all the side effects and all the problem, but they're not looking at the actual pattern that people seem to just naturally fall into. Yeah.

4 (2h 14m 51s):
I was amazed when I wrote the book that nobody had written it before because it's because it just, it just seems so fundamental. Yeah. and I think part of the thing is that people are in denial about their own interest in status. Yeah. I think we've evolved to hide it from, from ourselves. And, and so, so, so people will insist that they're not interested in status, but like you are like, it's in your wiring. Everybody is like, nobody wants to be called an asshole. Yeah. At all. And, and, and that's because it's a removal of your status.

3 (2h 15m 20s):
Yeah. It's like that thing, the don don't care thing. Of course you care. Everybody cares. Yeah. Yeah. It's nonsense. And

4 (2h 15m 26s):
You get get, you get like self-help gurus saying you shouldn't care what other people think about you, but it's like you, that's nonsense. You're always going to care what's, think

3 (2h 15m 33s):
About you's nonsense. It's nonsense,

4 (2h 15m 34s):
Doc. We, we are designed to care very deeply because other people give us our Yeah. Our status. So, and also why would you not want to care? Because that's, that's a psychopath.

3 (2h 15m 43s):
Exactly. That's the problem.

4 (2h 15m 44s):
Yeah. The other thing they say is that, how do we get out of The Status Game? And it's like the same thing. It's like, we, why would you want to, because status is your reward for offering value to other people. So why would you not want to offer value to other people? That's like the definition of a loser. Right? Like if you, if you stop caring that other people think you're a valuable person, then you really are those people that you were talking about that just have no get up and go just

3 (2h 16m 6s):
Then you're the Una bomber.

4 (2h 16m 7s):
Exactly.

3 (2h 16m 8s):
Yeah. The Unabomber really didn't like people.

4 (2h 16m 12s):
No, but he, he, he was another one. He was another guy that, that, that, you know, the roots of the unibo is, is fascinating that he, that he went to, was it Harvard University? Yeah. And had that, those experiments and that, and that was an exercise in humiliation. Yeah.

3 (2h 16m 24s):
So it was the LS LSD studies and part of the, what they did when they dose him up with LSD and they would do humiliating things to him and berate him. Yep. And they, it was, they were doing it as an experiment. They were trying to see what they could do to him. Mm. And how he would react. And the fact that they were using LSD while they were doing this is so nuts. Yeah.

4 (2h 16m 42s):
They, they, they, they got him to, they said it was a gonna experiment and the first thing to do was he had to write down in great detail all of his secrets, all of his hopes and dreams, like his most personal important things. And then he was sat in a desk like this with lights shining in his face. And all these people were just mocking him, mocking him, mocking him, tearing into bits. Mm. So absolutely humiliated him. And then what happened, you know what, you

3 (2h 17m 4s):
Know, the story of his childhood too.

4 (2h 17m 6s):
I dunno the story of his childhood

3 (2h 17m 7s):
When he was a baby, he was very ill. And so they brought him to an infirmary and he wasn't allowed to have any contact with his parents for like, months. So for like several months while he was a child. I don't remember exactly how long, but it was horrifically long. He didn't get human touch, which, you know, they didn't understand back then. I guess that, that's crucial to the development of a human being. Without it, you literally, a baby will go mad. And so then when he was older, one of the things his brother talked about, because his brother was the one who read the manifesto and recognized his brother's handwriting because it wasn't just a manifesto, it was the way, a specific way that he was talking about things and the way his understanding of technology.

3 (2h 17m 50s):
and it was his brother, his brother had this like crazy anti-technology philosophy a long fucking time ago. Mm. But he was saying that like, if he made an advance on a girl and a girl rejected him, he would be horrific and Wow. Angry and write letters and just berate her. Like it was crazy where he had to go, I mean, what the fuck are you doing? So he knew his brother was just broken. He was always broken. So to take that guy Yeah. And dose him up with LSD and humiliate him. Yeah. Like they made a fucking monster. Yeah.

4 (2h 18m 20s):
And, and, and, and who did he attack? Like the, the UN and Unabomber his universities? He, he, he took his, you know, it was revenge on the intellectual class who were kind of creating this world. He, he hated. Yeah. It's like you about Elliot Rogers, the, the, the spree killer. You know, he, he felt rejected again and again and again by the, by the pretty girls of the world. So his brain told in this horrifically misogynist story that girls were, women were responsible for all the evils in the world and decided to go out and, you know, kill a bunch of them. That's what the brain does. It tells us these stories that the people who are responsible for by lack of status are evil and they must be destroyed.

3 (2h 18m 58s):
Mm. It's a horrible pattern. Mm. It's a horrible pattern that people get into. Mm. And again, not, not really that commonly discussed. No. It's only, we only discuss the actions themselves, not the root cause of it. Mm. But how do you get a guy like El, that Elliot Rogers guy? How do you, how do you fix that? How do you stop that from happening? Well,

4 (2h 19m 18s):
He, he left behind a, a, a, like a, I think it's 80,000 word autobiography called My Twisted Life. Did

3 (2h 19m 25s):
Somebody publish it?

4 (2h 19m 26s):
He he put it on the internet before he did his killing. Wow. He's, he killed six people. And it's an incredible read. Like, I'm not joking, I reckon really like Yeah. It's, it's, it's horrific. But he's brutally honest about himself. Like he, like he, you know, he, his life was absolutely miserable. And so what I found was really interesting was that he, that he, he always starting in adolescence, he felt where he was bullied relentlessly at school. And, and he, he, he was desperate for a girlfriend and he just, he was just weird around people in general, but he was kind of holding it together because he was obsessed with World of Warcraft. So he would play World of Warcraft obsessively. He, he got, he got a lot of status in that. He got to the highest level, which apparently is a very rare thing to do.

4 (2h 20m 9s):
And then what happens is that he, he's just got these two or three friends that he plays World of Warcraft with at the internet cafe. And then he finds out one day that they, they're actually playing without him in secret because they don't want to play with him anymore. And that breaks him. That's the thing that breaks him. So he goes from just being a casual, you know, very unpleasant, misogynist to somebody who is mentally ill. He starts talking about how is

3 (2h 20m 33s):
That definitive though, because what did they say the reason why they stopped hanging out with him for, he might have been insane already. Well,

4 (2h 20m 39s):
He was, certainly wasn't, and I have been that he certainly wasn't normal. but it, in, in his, in his memoir, he goes from being a Yeah, definitely a weirdo. Like with, without, without a doubt. But, but then he starts, then he starts telling a story where actually he, he's this kind of godlike character that, that that has a special insight in, in, in the world. And the special insight is that all the evil in the world is because women choose jocks to procreate with and not, and not superior people like him. So what he's going to do is take over the world and abolish sex because sex isn't the root of all evil. And, and he's gonna allow certain women to procreate under certain conditions, but only for the continuation of the species.

4 (2h 21m 21s):
And so, so this, he, he goes from just being a misogynist and an outcast to somebody who's mentally ill.

3 (2h 21m 25s):
Well call me cynical, but I don't think people not playing World of Warcraft with you can do that. I have a feeling. Yeah. He might have already been out of his fucking mind. Yeah, he was. That's just me.

4 (2h 21m 37s):
Well, yes, he was definitely getting that way. but it, for me, it was interesting that his, his only remaining source of status four

3 (2h 21m 44s):
Cup was World War

4 (2h 21m 45s):
And it was taken away from him. Yeah. And, and, and it was that day when he has this Revelation. So maybe it's the coincidence I bet was

3 (2h 21m 53s):
He was already out of his fucking mind. Yeah. There's no way that just does it to you. No,

4 (2h 21m 56s):
No. I'm not saying he went from black to white. The status. It, it just went, he went from

3 (2h 22m 0s):
The straw.

4 (2h 22m 1s):
He went from being, he went a horrible, awkward misogynist to somebody who was having these fantasies of abolishing sex and that he was a God. Like that's a, that's a, that's a kind of difference. Yeah. It was

3 (2h 22m 11s):
The, it pushed him over the edge.

4 (2h 22m 12s):
Yeah. That, that, that's why I think,

3 (2h 22m 14s):
And there's a lot of people out there that are just on the edge. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So

4 (2h 22m 20s):
That's why I think it's so, that's why I think it's healthy to have, you know, lots of different status games. You know, I think, I think the healthiest people have multiple sources of status.

3 (2h 22m 28s):
Yeah. You were talking about that in the trigonometry podcast. Like, have more than one thing that you're interested in. Mm. That way all of your emotional self-worth is not invested in one particular thing that you do. Yeah. It's

4 (2h 22m 38s):
Like a hedge.

3 (2h 22m 39s):
Really good advice. Yeah. I try to follow that advice. Good. Yeah. I like to keep, I tell comedians too, you should have things you're interested in other than comedy have something you really love. That's fun to do. Yeah. Something you engage. Not just something you watch, but something you do.

4 (2h 22m 54s):
That's why I joined this, volunteered for this crisis line. 'cause it's like, the only thing I do is right. If this is taken away from me. Right.

3 (2h 23m 0s):
Right, right. It's, it's, that's interesting. Yeah. But also there's like something really powerful about helping somebody. Mm. You know, it's almost selfish. It, but it, you know what I mean?

4 (2h 23m 11s):
It is though. It is like, it, like definitely it's

3 (2h 23m 15s):
I mean that in the best possible way. Yeah. I don't really think it's selfish. I think it's wonderful, but I think it's kind of selfish in that when I do really nice things, it feels good too. You know?

4 (2h 23m 24s):
But that's, but but that's, again, that's the, it's The Status, Game. It's like we, we are wired to, when we offer, earn that kind of virtue based status Yeah. We are wired to feel good about ourselves. That's, that's healthy. That's normal. It's good. The fact that humans automatically reward each other and ourselves when we give to others is probably the most wonderful thing about our species. It's like an incredible thing that we do. Yeah. So it, I it's not, it's nothing to be, I don't think there's anything to be ashamed of that people feel good about doing good things. That's how it's ought to be. That's, that's part of the reason why we do good things. We're wired to give to the back to the tribe.

3 (2h 23m 59s):
Yeah. And the only thing that stops more of it is people that are in severe despair and then they get real selfish because they have to, they're looking out for themselves. That's one of the major problems with not addressing all the horrible spots in a, in a country. It's like you're just gonna have more people in despair, less people that engage in this status game in a, in an enjoyable way. In a beneficial way.

4 (2h 24m 21s):
Yeah. That's right. Yeah.

3 (2h 24m 23s):
Yeah. And that's, that's one of those things that like crosses both ideological boundaries. It kind of, and this is where I think we have a real problem, is that so many people just subscribe to whatever one side believes because of The, Status, Game. And they don't take into consider like, why am I attached to this idea? Yeah. What does that have to do with the other ones that I like? Yeah. Like why are they all lumped in together? How come if I believe this, I also have to believe in that. Yeah. Because that's what it, what it is. Like if I, if you tell me that you don't believe in climate change, I can guarantee you how you're gonna vote.

4 (2h 24m 58s):
Yeah, that's right. I mean that, that's it. Like, like in the uk, like it's somebody that thinks that there should be more public money spent on buses. I

3 (2h 25m 7s):
Can guarantee how you're gonna

4 (2h 25m 7s):
Vote. We'll also be, but also, we'll also we will all likely to be on the Palestinian side of the Middle Eastern complete

3 (2h 25m 12s):
100%

4 (2h 25m 13s):
Buses Middle East. Yeah. Nothing to do with each other. But they, but they, and, and, and I've got this, how

3 (2h 25m 18s):
Do you feel about guns, sir? Yeah. Do you believe in the second amendment? 'cause I fucking do. And then I know how you're voting.

4 (2h 25m 23s):
That's it. I mean, I've got this kind of idea that, that not always, once you're past the age of 45 or even 40, if all of your beliefs line up with left or right, then that something's gone wrong with your life. Yes. Like by the time you're 45, you should be smart enough to have figured out that they've got some stuff Right. And they've got some stuff. Right. Yes. And you should have decided for yourself, which is which. Yes. That, that, that's, and so when I meet somebody that's my age, and they're just giving this sort of list of talking points from left or right. I just think, oh God, you are, you are 16. Yeah. You are a 16-year-old.

11 (2h 25m 56s):
You know, that's what's weird. Right?

4 (2h 25m 58s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 25m 58s):
It's weird how some people will argue about something and then when you just calmly and rationally ask him like, why do you believe this? Yeah. Like what's, what do you know about the studies that were involved in this? Like what do you know about the origin of this? Like, what do you like, you, you can say it in the most peaceful way and just talk just like that. And they'll get hostile. Yeah. Because they don't have that information. Yeah. They just know that you must be some sort of a bad person. Yeah. If you're not following the narrative. Yeah. Like, come on, we all know what's going on. We all know what do you want Trump to win? Yeah. That's,

4 (2h 26m 28s):
Everybody knows, everybody knows it's well known that Yeah. I

3 (2h 26m 31s):
They get angry with you. Are you stupid? Are you stupid? You really believe this? Like, I just wanna know why you believe it. I didn't say what I believe. Yeah. but it, people can't engage like that. No. Because very few people can like stand outside their ideas. And one of the things that I always try to tell as many people that listen, one of the things that's benefited me tremendously is when I stop being attached to my ideas. I don't believe in my ideas. I do in the sense that these are some ideas that I have and I wonder if this is right. But if, if it's not right, I'm not, I'm not attached to it. Like I can go, oh, I used to think that, but now I know this and that doesn't diminish your worth. And but what does diminish your worth is if you fucking clinging to that other stupid thing.

3 (2h 27m 15s):
Even that after, you know it's not real. Yeah. That's just dumb. Yeah. Like, you are not your ideas. You're just a human being that's interfacing with a fucking shit load of information. And most of it, you're only gonna have a peripheral understanding of, you know how ask most people, how's the sewage system work?

11 (2h 27m 32s):
You don know it's so important. You use it every day.

3 (2h 27m 36s):
How does it function without electricity? I flush it comes back. What the fuck's going on? Most people have zero idea, but it's like a critical part of their day. Yeah.

4 (2h 27m 44s):
That's it. And it's about active belief. It's the beliefs that that become part of our identity. They're the dangerous ones. Right. Because those, the ones that are, that, that are status generators for us. Yes. Our status is, our status depends on this idea that about biological women or about who about white versus black men versus women. And then once, once you're in that space, you, you can't trust your own thoughts because your brain isn't thinking what's true. Your brain is thinking, how can I defend this belief? How can I defend this belief because this belief is me. Yeah. I am this belief. This is my, my status game. It's based on this belief.

3 (2h 28m 15s):
Yeah. And it's a really dangerous trap that everyone can fall into all of us. Mm. That's why cults are so terrifying to me. They're not terrifying to me because I look at these people like, oh, they're so stupid. You know, these, these fucking dummies are gonna ruin the world. No, I look, I, I'm terrified 'cause that could have been me. Yeah. That 100% could. I think it could be anybody and I think we are naive to think that we're not subject to the same kind of capture that many, many people have gotten into. Mm. Whether it's communism or whether it's socialism, or whether it's nazim or one of these crazy fucking cults where people cut their balls off and wear the purple sneakers. You could get sucked into it. Yeah. Maybe not you, maybe you are at a certain level of your life where you have enough sophistication and understanding and you're good at reading people and you could recognize bullshit.

3 (2h 29m 1s):
But maybe you, maybe you have enough for that, but maybe the next one will get you. Maybe there's one that's a little bit better and you know, it's kind of a church, but it's a rock and roll kind of thing. And you know, the Yeah.

4 (2h 29m 12s):
One of the good, you know, so a thought experiment that I like is, is this idea that that that kinda shows that your irrational beliefs are invisible to you. So when you think about the people that are close to you, like you can, you know each one of those people what they're wrong about, like this person. Yeah. Don't get, don't get 'em talking about that. No, this person's mad about that. And then the further you go out from your social circles, the more wrong and mad and crazy people get to, you get to the ball cutting cold and the communists. So that just leaves you in the middle, the island of perfect island of absolute rationality. So, so you go, hang on a minute. That can't be right. So I'm not Jesus, like I must be wrong about some stuff. How can be, but when you go looking for what you're wrong about and you can't cheat by going stuff that you don't care about, they're like, what? What ideas are really important to you?

4 (2h 29m 53s):
Well, I'm not wrong about that. I'm not wrong about that. I'm not wrong about that. So you can't see it. You feel like Jesus, you feel like I'm the most correct person literally in the world. You know, logically you can't be, but you can't see, you can't find what you're wrong about.

3 (2h 30m 9s):
Especially if you're rationalizing everything that you do and every idea that you have as being the correct idea. Yeah. Which is why it's so dangerous. Your, your value, your worth should not be entirely your ideas. Mm. That's crazy. Mm. That's a terrible strategy because you could have, you could be hanging onto a bad idea. Yeah. And then you have to cling onto it and defend it. You can't say, oh, that idea was bad. Yeah. Because that's you, you're bad. That's what's stupid about it. It doesn't have to be that way. Mm. You can just think of them as ideas. It doesn't mean you, but if you irrationally defend an idea, then it is you. Yeah.

4 (2h 30m 46s):
Well, as soon, as soon as that becomes an active belief, a belief that you are acting out in the world that's causing your behavior that you're trying to spread to other people and convince other people It's true. Yeah. Then you're already on a slippery slope. Yeah. Because you're already think feeling irrationally about that. I've

3 (2h 31m 0s):
Seen it happen to brilliant people. Yeah. I really have. And it's so weird to watch. It's like you lost them. They got bit by a vampire. Yeah. I mean

4 (2h 31m 6s):
Theyre gone. I did a lot for writing about that. Remember the, the athe. The skeptics. Remember when they were big?

3 (2h 31m 11s):
Yeah. Those guys were great.

4 (2h 31m 13s):
But, but it always struck me that they, they were also irrational about certain things. Yeah. And when I was doing my reporting, their, their, their big kind of moral panic kind of status frenzy was homeopathy. They're obsessed with homeopathy. Like, and they were like, 'cause homeopathy is just empty pills and it's ridiculous. Right. And dah, dah, dah, dah. So, but I just thought, this is weird because we know the placebo effects works. It's a real thing. So surely homeopathy is just a very elaborate placebo theater. It works as a placebo, so it still works. So I put this to a guy who was a big famous atheist. He presented a sort of very famous podcast at the time. and I said, what about the, it's a, like, it's a placebo effect.

4 (2h 31m 55s):
So it's, it's surely it's a valuable thing, homeopathy. And he said, no, no, no, no, no. That's not right. The data isn't on this, we know about this. He said, what we know is the placebo is only psychological, not physiological. So if people think they're getting better, but they're not getting better. but it's like, hang on a minute. If the perception of pain has decreased, then the pain has decreased. Yeah. Like if the perception of your depression is decreased, then the depression is decreased. Right.

3 (2h 32m 22s):
By now measure, you're like, Advil doesn't work. Yeah, exactly.

4 (2h 32m 24s):
So, so it's like this guy who was incredibly smart and incredibly well known in the skeptic community had managed to convince himself that, that that, that the placebo effect was this fake thing that didn't really work. 'cause it was only psychological. Just so to, to give him permission to sort of shit on homeopathy. and it that,

3 (2h 32m 43s):
But does placebo effect work in terms of curing diseases?

4 (2h 32m 46s):
No, nothing. Things like pain and zero don don't. Just, so Yeah. Things like pain and depression, things that are, yeah. So, so, so, so it doesn't cure cancer, can't shrink a tumor,

3 (2h 32m 56s):
But it does work with pain and depression. That's

4 (2h 32m 58s):
Fascinating. Yeah.

3 (2h 32m 59s):
That's fascinating. Yeah.

4 (2h 32m 60s):
I mean there were well known studies that show that, that that, that when you buy a brand, I always buy brand name painkillers because it has greater placebo than the cheap supermarket owned brand. and it, even when you know it's the placebo, it still works more. So that extra few bucks that you're spending on the, the brand name painters. Well, isn't

3 (2h 33m 18s):
There just a problem calling yourself a skeptic? Because why don't just be a thinker. Yeah. It's like, why, why are you specifically looking at things and it's nah, I know, cynical, you know, like, that seems silly. There's a lot of things that are real. Yeah. Like what do you do when you stumble across something that's real? Yeah. Well I used to be skeptical, but this turns out to be legit. Well, no, it's like you're just looking at everything hoping it's not legit because that's where you get your value in your status.

4 (2h 33m 42s):
Exactly. I mean in

3 (2h 33m 44s):
It status from calling bullshit

4 (2h 33m 45s):
In, in that book, I ended up meeting, do you know Ja you must know James, Randy, he was their big Sure. Yeah. He was their Big God, you know, and he was, he, he, he, he, he was a, a a very strange individual. And and part of the interview, I challenged him a lot of the, on a lot of the things that he'd claimed in his life. And he ended up admitting to me that he was, he'd lied and been dishonest about his achievements in the past. Oh no. Yeah.

3 (2h 34m 9s):
What achievements.

4 (2h 34m 11s):
Well achievements. And also lied a lot about the things he'd said about, you know, he had this million dollar challenge. Yes. Yeah. So, so his whole thing was like, it's an easy thing to do. If you prove anything that's supernatural or woowoo, he used to call it, you get a million dollars. And the fact that nobody had ever got this a million dollars was his proof that Right. That, that none of this could exist. But there is story after story, after story after story of people applying for this million dollar challenge, him backing out at the last minute for spurious reasons, and then attacking that person in public. Oh. So, so that happened again and again and again. I think the worst instance of that was this Greek, again, homeopathy person who, who'd spent something like half a million euros setting up a study in a hospital to, to test, properly test whether this homeopathy worked.

4 (2h 34m 58s):
And just on the eve of it happening, he, he, he insisted that has it all had to start again. And a pilot study had to be made. And, and then, and, and then blamed the other guy for pulling out. So now I came to him with a, basically a binder full of this stuff and he eventually admitted, oh yeah. You know, I, I have been dishonest. I have been untrue. Wow. But one of the amazing things about that was that, was that I asked him at the end of the interview after he'd admitted, yes, I've lied about this stuff. I said, have you ever changed your mind about anything? And he was in his eighties at the time. I think he couldn't tell me a single thing Wow. That he had ever changed his mind about that. Seems crazy. That is not a critical thinker. That's a stubborn asshole if you ask me.

3 (2h 35m 40s):
Yeah. And on that note, hey man, thank you very much for being here. It was a lot of fun. I really, really enjoyed it. And like I said, I enjoyed your interview on Trigonometry and I. Recommend everybody go. It's a great podcast. Anyway, so thank you very much and thank you for the book and thank you for being able to like lay this out in such a, like I said, digestible way.

4 (2h 35m 58s):
Thank you, Joe. I really appreciate you having me on. It's been amazing.

3 (2h 36m 1s):
I, I enjoyed it. Thank you. Thanks. Alright. Bye everybody.