0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night. All day.

0 (12s):
Just, just,

3 (13s):
Just, just see you, bro. It's

4 (14s):
You two. You two

3 (17s):
And we're up. The fuck is happening? Tom Brady? Yeah.

4 (20s):
Yeah. Great to be here, man. My man. Made it back. Made it back last time I saw you. I don't know. My eyes might've been a little crossed that Well,

3 (30s):
Last time I saw you was last night,

4 (32s):
Right? That's on the night

3 (33s):
Time and before.

4 (33s):
Yeah, that's true. That's true. We'd start with that then. But the

3 (36s):
Last time we saw each other on a podcast, yeah. We got things. Went a little western. We got a little intoxicated.

4 (45s):
So, so, absolutely. So, you know, the whiskey kept pouring, the whiskey kept pouring. And that was when I was, I had that van, so I was, I'd still have the van, but at the time I, I was, I was kind living in the van, traveling in the van. So I drove here.

3 (59s):
This is heavy covid, this is like heavy covid. The beginning of Covid where it was like weird to be around each other. Like, are we okay? We got tested. Okay.

4 (1m 6s):
Right. We did good. Got the Covid test. Yeah. And then I had the van out in the parking lot. Yeah. And, and we started drinking the whiskey. But midway through the show, and then the next thing I know, I'm opening my eyes in my van and it's the next day. And I'm just like,

3 (1m 29s):
Oh shit.

4 (1m 30s):
What happened on the show? You know? So, you know, I, I think maybe the last half hour of the show was such a blur. I don't really quite remember getting the van, but I had a nice sleep in the parking lot. It was amazing. And, and then I kind of was a little nervous about like, geez, what? That's a, that's a weird feeling when you

3 (1m 46s):
Don't know what you said.

4 (1m 47s):
Don't know what you said. Yeah. And, and I called my mom. And everybody seemed, you know, like it was, people thought it was funny, but I mean, I, I think she was a little concerned about the drinking, the amount of drinking. But no, that was, that was a great time. But I'm not,

3 (2m 5s):
It was fun.

4 (2m 5s):
Yeah, it was a great time.

3 (2m 6s):
It was fun. So we got a little off the rails. You didn't have to go anywhere. No. Your van was parked.

4 (2m 13s):
It was awesome. It was awesome. What

3 (2m 14s):
Is it like sleeping in parking lots? That's gotta be an odd thing.

4 (2m 19s):
Well, I rarely did. I rarely did that in the van. It was mostly out in these remote desert parks, like out in Bureau of Land Management. Land BLM Land in the desert. Yeah. and I was going around filming and, and so I wasn't, but I, there was a couple of times I'd sleep in a truck stop 'cause I was wanting to make a lot of distance. So I'd drive until I kind of couldn't keep my eyes open. Then I'd pull over at a truck stop and sleep between

3 (2m 42s):
Sketchy proposition. Right. You don't know who's around. Yeah.

4 (2m 46s):
Well in the desert it's, it's a little more nerve wracking. 'cause you're all alone out there. Ooh. Yeah. And, and people can see the van and the distance and it's a pretty nice van. That's when the

3 (2m 55s):
Aliens come too. So

4 (2m 56s):
Yeah. They're all alone. I was hoping for that, but nothing. No, no, no. Aliens. I had a, I had a nice flyover from, you know, the US fighter jet in the trona pin pinnacles in this amazing part of desert in California. Oh yeah. And, and I was the only person there. and I could tell this fighter Jet saw me and he just kind of came and right over. Oh wow. Right over the back. Oh.

3 (3m 18s):
Just to say

4 (3m 19s):
Hi. Yeah. Yeah. and I didn't get my camera out in time. and it just, that's

3 (3m 22s):
Blew in one of those ones.

4 (3m 23s):
Yeah. Yeah. With

3 (3m 24s):
The Blue Angels.

4 (3m 25s):
Oh yeah. Yeah.

3 (3m 26s):
God, it's insane when you realize what those jets can do. and I think what they were flying was like an FA 18. See if that's true.

4 (3m 35s):
Nice. Yeah.

3 (3m 36s):
I think that's it. That's what we did. And

4 (3m 39s):
I believe they are

3 (3m 39s):
Actually, I think they have even more capable jets now. 'cause this is when I wanna say this is like 2003, two, something like that. Way back in the day. I have a plaque. You know, it says, you, you flew with the Blue Angel Angels

4 (3m 52s):
Pull Major G Forces. I've never been in a fighter jet.

3 (3m 55s):
Yeah, I did. I think I did six and a half Gs, something like that. and I stayed conscious, but then I blacked out when I forgot to do the hooking on a lesser run. Like it was lesser, it was like four Gs or something like that.

4 (4m 11s):
You forgot to do the What's the,

3 (4m 12s):
Oh, I'm sorry. You, you, when you are, when you're going through high Gs, you do a thing called hooking. I think that's how they say it. When you hold onto the, the joystick, or you can hold onto your straps on your legs if you're the pastor like I was. Yeah. And you go like this and you're literally forcing blood into your head. Oh man. To stay conscious. Yeah. So while we're doing this, I'm feel that's what you're doing. See how she's doing that?

4 (4m 38s):
Nice.

3 (4m 39s):
See how she's doing it? Yeah.

5 (4m 42s):
I thought I could hear it.

4 (4m 43s):
So this is why,

3 (4m 44s):
That's how you stay conscious. Yeah. That's how you stay conscious. You have to force the blood into your fucking brain.

4 (4m 49s):
It seems like it's kind of slightly on the edge of not being a perfect system. Right. Like I mean

3 (4m 55s):
If

4 (4m 55s):
You gotta do

3 (4m 55s):
That, well, it's like you gotta be a bad motherfucker to fly those things. Yeah. Those, those guys were all lifting, like all those Blue Angels piles, they were all jacked. They're all like super diesel.

4 (5m 5s):
Yeah.

3 (5m 5s):
Because these guys are just fucking girl. They're wrestling with that thing. Yeah. Like, it's not as simple as like, you're, you're like, the physical force of going to six Gs is so extraordinary. Yeah. You haven't felt anything like it in your life when you're, and these guys can go to like 13 Gs, some of them. Yeah.

4 (5m 25s):
Don don't think I, it's

3 (5m 26s):
Fucking insane.

4 (5m 27s):
I I don't think I would wanna do that actually. I would probably just, I, I I sometimes don't wanna do those kinds of things. You don't have to do it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It looks, it looks amazing. But I just feel like I'm

3 (5m 36s):
Glad I did it.

4 (5m 37s):
Yeah, yeah. For sure. Yeah. After

3 (5m 38s):
I just, just as a wake up call, like you think you understand, you see a jet and I think of it almost like, well obviously like driving a race car is very difficult. Right. But driving a car fast is not that difficult. Yeah. You know, like if you have a good car, if you buy a new car today, that handles really well, you can, if there's no one around, you can go pretty fucking fast. And it's really in control. But those things are different, man. It's like, there's a physical experience and it, it's so fast. There's so much power and force behind those things. Like,

4 (6m 9s):
You got a plane yet you're getting a plane drill. Oh, fuck that.

6 (6m 12s):
No,

3 (6m 13s):
No. Bill bur pilots, bill Burt flies around in a goddamn helicopter. Yeah, that's it Took me up around downtown LA We just, you can fly wherever you want in a helicopter. Yeah.

4 (6m 21s):
Helicopters are, are even more of a a no-no for me I don, because they, they seem to go down a little too much. You know, I've been in a few, I, I flew a black in a black hawk through, you know, Baghdad in and did one of those us o tours went, did standup over there back in 2003. How was that? That was pretty, pretty wild experience. It was, it was right before, like, it was probably fortunately for my nervous system right after the mission accomplished banner. Oh. And right before shit hit the fan with the IEDs. So I was kind of thinking, oh, it's okay. No big deal. And we were over there in the green zone and we were flying around in the Black Hawk helicopter one night. They said, you want to go out on a night patrol in like a tank?

4 (7m 5s):
and I was all set to go. And then, then they had to cancel it 'cause of some sort of attack. And then we started hearing there's some stuff happening. The, we were there for about a few days only, but they started avoiding, you know, stuff on the road and the Humvees. Oh. And then the second I got back to, to, you know, stateside, the, that's when it started to get real, real bad over there. But I did a few of those it Afghanistan as well, and was on Chinook helicopters. Oh wow. Because my dad was military. So that's why I'm, that's why I'm rocking the Canadian Army jacket. Canadian army. We've got an army

3 (7m 37s):
I heard recently, recently heard about it. They didn't fight too hard against tyranny.

6 (7m 45s):
Here we go.

4 (7m 48s):
No, it's, well we did, you know, actually we fought pretty hard against the Germans in I mean the internal. Yeah. Oh yeah. I know, I know I know I know

3 (7m 56s):
Internal government tyranny.

4 (7m 57s):
Yeah. It's, it's fun. I, you know, I watch your show all the time, Joe. So it's like I know I'm I, and I'm a very proud Canadian. So Tom,

3 (8m 2s):
You're the granddaddy of the show.

4 (8m 5s):
The granddaddy. Well, yeah, I don't know about that, but I mean you are First of all, you've always been very nice to, you know, gimme a shout out about those early days of broadcasting in the living room, huh? Well

3 (8m 18s):
Dude, you're an awesome guy. I've always loved you. You're always cool to be around. And you also, you show in 2007 when I went on your show, that was 100% a major inspiration for me to do this because I remember thinking, oh my God, he figured it out. Like I remember, I remember very clearly like sitting next to you on that chair going, dude, dude, this is it. Like this is it. All you have to do is figure out how to make money with this. Yeah.

4 (8m 43s):
You said that on the show. Yeah. Which was hilarious. And then you figured that out. Yeah.

6 (8m 49s):
Yeah.

4 (8m 50s):
You really figured that out. That's cool. That was the missing link. Damnit, but No, no, that's amazing. No, it is. You know, I remember when we, when we were doing it, I had, you know, I always wanted to do a talk show when I was growing up. I loved Letterman. Right. And I'd done my show on You

3 (9m 5s):
Were

4 (9m 5s):
Great at it. Yeah. and I really did enjoy the, the first show was more, you know, me out in the street doing crazy stuff. And then we did a, a talk show, which was a little bit more of a sort of a, a nightly show, a little bit more time to talk. and I did, I did love doing that. When, when the show stopped, it was right at the time of, you know, technology changing on the web. And that was kind of always kind of how I, I was kinda looking at technology usually. 'cause you know, when I was a kid, I was in a rap group and it was from technology. Right. and I, remember Drum machines came out and we were listening to Public Enemy and going, what are these sounds? You know, how do you do that? Right. And then I would go work a summer job.

4 (9m 47s):
I'd buy a, a sampler and a CAEs 900 Sampler and Atari computer. and it, you know, I'm making beats in my parents' basement in Ottawa, Canada. Wow. No one's making beats in Ottawa, Canada. You know, we started this group called Organized Rhyme. And what year is this? This was, well we started in mid eighties. And so this

3 (10m 5s):
Is all pre-internet.

4 (10m 6s):
Yeah, pre-internet. Yeah. Yeah. This was high school. So how

3 (10m 8s):
Are you finding out about all

4 (10m 10s):
This stuff? Yes, there we are back then. Well, that was, you know, friends at school were listening to rap music. So friends at school were like, Hey, you gotta check out Public Enemy. You gotta check out Boogie Down Productions. I'm like, boogie Down Productions. Then you get a, someone give you a cassette of like the Criminal Minded Boogie Down Productions Bridges Over album. And you're listening to it and they're rapping about Scott Larock, their dj, who'd been, you know, unfortunately, you know, passed away in bad circumstances. He was shot and killed. And then you're listening to this sort of, that was the internet to me, you know, it was, was rap music and skateboarding. Thrasher Ma Magazine was skateboarding. You'd read stories about skateboarders in California, in a magazine.

4 (10m 51s):
You'd listen to rap music and hear stories about, you know, people who were not in Ottawa, you know, doing, doing cool shit. And, and I was kind of wanting to get up on stage and perform. I was, I was trying to dabbling with standup as a, at the Yuck yucks in, in the comedy club in Ottawa. And so when

3 (11m 10s):
You say

4 (11m 11s):
Dalin, well, I was doing standup. I was doing standup, but I, I never really got to really, you know, a level where I was kind of, I was doing it every week. I was going down every week for a couple of years. And actually the reason I stopped was 'cause the, the, the, the rap group got kind of sort of a record deal basically. and I kind of went focused on that for a while and stopped doing standup. But yeah, the club in Ottawa, yuck. Yucks in Ottawa still there. It's moved. But it's, it's owned by Howard Wagman, who's, it's yuck. Yucks is kinda like the improv of Canada. You know, it's chain all across the country. Mark Breslin, I'm sure you know, mark. He's, he started it and, and it's, he's kinda like, it was, it was, it was wild.

4 (11m 55s):
'cause like I know, it was something about the eighties, the nineties before the internet. Right. You'd go down to a comedy club and you'd find out about stuff just through word of mouth, like the rap music and like comedy. So I would go down to the Comedy club and I, remember Norm McDonald would come through and he was probably 25 years old. Right. And I'm 16 in the audience. And then I got to become this huge fan of Norm. And he was Norm. But back then there wasn't a lot of people doing standup. Like Norm. Like there wasn't this sort of angle of sort of this absurdity to it. This, this sort of, this sort of, it was a more of a structured down the middle Yeah.

4 (12m 40s):
Way of doing standup back then. And, and so Norm was this sort of, you know, you know,

3 (12m 44s):
It was a curve ball. Yeah.

4 (12m 45s):
This sort of curve ball. And we just couldn't get enough of it. So every time we was in town, we'd be down there. But Howard Wagman told me this, this story about Norm. And you know, the first time he came down to do standup at Yuck Yucks in Ottawa. And he got off stage and he was disappointed in how it went. Norm was, and he said, I'm never doing this again. He walked down the street, Howard Wagman chased him down Spark Street in Ottawa and said, no, that was great. You're coming back. And he made him come back and the rest is history. Well,

3 (13m 13s):
Norm was a legitimate Genius. Yeah. Like a Genius of life. Like, like a, a rare specimen. Like Genius in not, not just that his comedy was brilliant, but just, just like, look at this. I've never seen this before. Like a totally different kind of human. Yeah,

4 (13m 33s):
Yeah.

3 (13m 33s):
You know? Yeah. And genuinely always funny. Like every conversation was funny. He was just funny. I was on plane with him accidentally twice.

4 (13m 44s):
Nice. Twice. That must have been amazing. Twice

3 (13m 46s):
On two separate occasions. Just totally random. We sat next to each other and play. I'm like, whoa. This is crazy. Yeah. Yeah. And the last one, it was so funny because he was telling me about how he quit smoking. Yeah. I quit smoking and so fucking turns out it's real bad for you. This whole thing about quitting smoking and we're talking about it, like, how hard was it to quit this whole thing? The moment we land, he walks into the gift shop, buys a pack of cigarettes and he's lighting them before he gets out the door.

4 (14m 17s):
Yeah.

3 (14m 17s):
And I go, I thought you quit. He goes, I did. But all that talking about it made me wanting to smoke. Yeah.

4 (14m 22s):
It's probably all an elaborate setup. Right. He probably was planning it the whole way. don don't know. Who knows? He probably doesn't even smoke. He was just doing it as a gag. No, he was, he was. He was. He was.

3 (14m 31s):
Well he was into gambling too, right? Yeah. So like, people that have those kind of like impulse control issues, like gambling is a big impulsive thing. Like, I'm fucking bet. I'm gonna bet on it. Let's

4 (14m 40s):
Put the be put it back.

3 (14m 42s):
All of it. All of it. That's rough. You know, that kind of wild, crazy sports gambling

4 (14m 45s):
Too. That's not a good addiction to have, especially when you have money. Right.

3 (14m 49s):
That's a scary addiction. Man. I watched Dana White Gamble, I watched Dana White play blackjack and he was down $600,000. Yeah. And my fucking hands were sweating. I just, I was going, what are you guys doing? Yeah. That's

4 (15m 2s):
Real money. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is

3 (15m 3s):
So crazy. Yeah. He does it every night. Yeah. He does it constantly. There's people that love it, they love it, they love the action. It's thrilling

4 (15m 12s):
For me, it's, fortunately, I've never liked numbers. Like math was never something I enjoyed. So when it comes to blackjack, you're going, you're, I'm doing math in my head. and I get very uncomfortable. So I just, I go, I'm, I'm not gonna be good at this. That's a

3 (15m 25s):
Great reason to not gamble. You hate math

4 (15m 27s):
Class. Yeah. I just figured I'm not gonna be good at this. 'cause I can't even really add up what I'm supposed to be doing here quickly. So I'm just gonna just sit on the side. Plus I'm cheap. I don't wanna lose money.

3 (15m 35s):
I'm not a math person either. Yeah. It's a concentration thing. It's like if you concentrated on math, really got good at the basics of it and then really started getting into more complex mathematics, it'd probably be very fun. Probably be very exciting. But the problem is I never concentrated in high school at all. I didn't pay attention to it. So I'm so removed. Like if people start talking about math, like complex shit. Yeah. Oh

4 (16m 5s):
My God. I checked out a long division. I don have tools, long division. I checked out

3 (16m 9s):
I don. I'm like, are calculators available? They're pretty much everywhere. Right, right, right. And aren't there like an unlimited supply a batteries? I'm like, come

4 (16m 15s):
Out. This is what I'm wondering. You know, now with with with our phones and our Google and everything. Like we, we don't have to learn any of that anymore. don don't

3 (16m 22s):
Know anyone's phone number. We

4 (16m 23s):
Don't really have to learn anything anymore.

3 (16m 25s):
I know, like Eddie Bravo's phone number, I know my wife's phone number. I might know two, two other numbers. Yeah. When I was a kid I had a hundred numbers in my head.

4 (16m 34s):
Yeah.

3 (16m 35s):
You could call your grandmother top.

4 (16m 37s):
I still remember my top of that, my phone number from when I was a kid. Yeah. You

3 (16m 39s):
Could call your friends.

4 (16m 41s):
I could say it now, but that person probably wouldn't like that very much.

3 (16m 44s):
I got my phone number memorized from when I was in high school. Yeah. It was our first phone number. Yeah. I couldn't believe we had a phone number. I'm like, wow.

4 (16m 51s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. But that's I mean. We had

3 (16m 53s):
Phone numbers before, but that was the first one that I've remembered. And then we, that was the first answer Machines too.

4 (16m 58s):
Right. That was wild. Remember you would, you would, if you want, if you're out and you're trying to meet somebody and they're gonna meet you and then they don't show up and you want to figure out where they are, you'd go to a payphone, put a quarter in it. Yeah. Call your phone and then put your code in and check your answering machine or your voicemail from like a, from the mall and you

3 (17m 15s):
Thought you were living

4 (17m 16s):
The machine. And then they would leave a, they'd leave a message on your answering machine to tell you, Hey, sorry, I'm gonna be a little late. And you, and then you hang up and then, you know, it cost you a quarter. Yeah. but it was, yeah. That was, that's how crazy everything's changed in such a small, you left the house amount of time when you

3 (17m 29s):
Were gone. Yeah. No one knew where the fuck you

4 (17m 32s):
Were. Absolutely. There was, yeah.

3 (17m 34s):
There was no snap map where kids today, they look at each other on Snapchat maps where they all know where they are at any moment in time. There's no shenanigans. Yeah,

4 (17m 45s):
No, I was thinking about like how when I was a kid, you know, we would, we would be able to very easily manipulate, you know, the situation with, you know, my parents and say, okay, I'm going over

3 (17m 55s):
My friend, so Right. I'm gonna Bobby's house,

4 (17m 57s):
Go out drinking and skateboarding all night and Yeah, no, you know that, that was better like that. You know,

3 (18m 2s):
These kids today, they're tracked, everyone's tracked. It's not your parents, it's the government and

4 (18m 7s):
We're not gonna be able to really get, get rid of it now too. That's the thing. There's no, there's no way this is gonna turn bad. No one's, no one's ever gonna decide this has gone too far. It's just, it's, it's just gonna keep escalating and getting worse and, and my eyes are getting bad 'cause I'm sticking, I'm, I'm, I, I find myself addicted to the phone as much as I know that it's happening. I'll get on that TikTok and I just start scrolling through stuff and then, oh shit. Like two hours just went by, you know? And my eyes are getting blurry and it's really kind of starting to,

3 (18m 37s):
It's

4 (18m 38s):
Useless. Piss me off to be honest with you.

3 (18m 39s):
Yeah. I, for me it's Instagram. don don't have TikTok, but I use the Instagram reels, which God damnit, it's so nuts. Like one after the other. And it's so interesting watching this mad scramble of people trying to figure out a new way to get your attention. Whether it's through like shooting a bow and arrow with your feet over your head at balloons. You ever seen those gals that do that Sounds good. They stand, stand on their hands and they have a bow and their feet and they have their legs all the way over the top of their head and they draw the bow back with their

4 (19m 11s):
Feet. and I saw another thing kind of like that. But there was no bow and arrow involved, but yeah, yeah, yeah.

3 (19m 15s):
This is the

4 (19m 16s):
Thing. Yeah. Yeah. That sounds good. That sounds good. Are they, are they wearing clothing as well? Or is No. Why

3 (19m 21s):
Would they be wearing clothing?

4 (19m 22s):
Oh, okay. Cool. Yeah, no, I hope, definitely

3 (19m 23s):
They wear like bikinis. They're hot. Most gals have that kind of mobility with your body. You're probably pretty hot.

4 (19m 31s):
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.

3 (19m 32s):
How did you not have a hot body? If you could do that, if you could get your butt over the top of your head and have your legs pull a bow back and then aim it and shoot it. What,

4 (19m 41s):
I certainly can't do that.

3 (19m 43s):
Who will fucking do that? I mean what percent, what percentage of the population can do that?

4 (19m 49s):
See, and this is, this is kind of, I think where we started with us was, you know, how did I find out about rap music? How did I find out about Norm? You know, we had to use a certain sense of creativity and we had to go out of our way to find out about stuff. Right. You know, and, and, and so it it, you know, sounding like some couple of old guys

3 (20m 12s):
Here we are, a couple of old

4 (20m 13s):
Guys Yeah. Complaining about,

3 (20m 13s):
But that's what we are now. How

4 (20m 15s):
The world was better before. But

3 (20m 16s):
I don't think the world was better before.

4 (20m 18s):
Yeah.

3 (20m 18s):
There's, I don't think that's

4 (20m 19s):
True. There's some aspects of it like that I think forced us to be just a little bit more creative and think outta the box because we were, or at least in a different way. 'cause you, you'd go find some drum machine or you'd go down to the little comedy club in Ottawa and you know, standup comedy was a mainstream thing then. You know, it was, it was pretty big. But not in Ottawa. It was sort of almost like you felt like you were going somewhere that you weren't supposed to go. Yeah. You go down in the basement. Yeah. It was 16 years old. I mean a bar, you know, and there's some guy on stage and they're not talking about Norm McDonald on, on television yet. He hadn't gone to SNL yet. He had, I remember I'd see him and my friends would see him and then we'd go to school and we'd tell our friends, you gotta go see this guy Norm McDonald.

4 (21m 1s):
He'd come every three times a year and every time he'd come we'd be there. and it was just like this sort of myth. It was a mythology to it, you know. And then all of a sudden he got, we heard he moved to, he moved to Los Angeles, he's writing for Roseanne, you know, and we all heard about this. and it was this sort of, you know, all the, you know, the amateur comics, the, you know, up in the kids up there and doing it. And well, I guess I was the kid doing that. Everyone else was kind of in their twenties but thirties. But everybody was just kinda like, there's hope we can, we can get outta Ottawa, man. You know, so Yeah. You know, and something,

3 (21m 33s):
There's something out there

4 (21m 33s):
And then SNL and everything. and it was just amazing to watch, watch him do that. But, and you know, I was having a good chat with, with Adam at, at the club, you know, about Norm. 'cause he was Of course famously his, his psychic on his show side kids. Yeah. So it was such a shame to see Norm disappear like that. and I just,

3 (21m 50s):
He was talking about coming out here too.

4 (21m 53s):
Yeah. Yeah. So, but it's, it's, you know, so much has happened since I was here last, I got a lot of stuff I wanted to First of all. Before I start talking about me though, I just wanted to say thanks for having me at the club this weekend. My pleasure. I'm just so stoked. The club is amazing. It's, and and it's been hanging out there for the last two nights. and I came in a little early and wanted to hang out and just settle in and man, it's just such a vibe there. It's just such a perfect, perfect comedy club. You did such amazing job. Thank you.

3 (22m 25s):
You're the only guy that brings his dog everywhere. That's not annoying. Maybe

4 (22m 28s):
Ever. Yeah. Yeah. Well, maybe ever.

3 (22m 30s):
Yeah. Yeah. And everybody loves Charlie.

4 (22m 32s):
Yeah. Everybody loves Charlie. Could be a

3 (22m 34s):
Charlie. Charlie's in here with us now. Yeah.

4 (22m 36s):
Yeah. Charlie's

3 (22m 37s):
A sweetie.

4 (22m 37s):
Charlie is, I got Charlie right before I, I came here the last time. She's named after the John Steinbeck novel. Travels with Charlie. 'cause I was out in the van and that, that book's about Steinbeck in the sixties got a camper, made a camper van out of a pickup truck. And he drove across America and he wrote a book about America and its differences. Oh. It's called Travels with Charlie in Search of America. And, and I got, I got Charlie at a rescue called Thrive is the name of the rescue, which is actually run by Jimmy Durante's daughter in San Diego. The entertain the entertainer. Jimmy Durante, who it's like a, a ranch in San Diego.

4 (23m 18s):
And they bring these dogs in from, from The Bahamas in Mexico called Pot Cake Dogs. And Charlie. Anyways, we,

3 (23m 29s):
We

4 (23m 29s):
Went out in the desert and everybody loves Charlie. Like you said, there's Charlie on

3 (23m 34s):
The, Charlie looks like she was just taking a nap. Yeah. She's like, what the fuck you waking me up for dad?

4 (23m 39s):
But I was just

3 (23m 40s):
Taking a

4 (23m 40s):
Nap. The funniest thing is

3 (23m 41s):
That Charlie actually goes on stage with you. We should tell people. Yeah.

4 (23m 44s):
She just chills out up there. I just kind of take her,

3 (23m 46s):
It's gotta be so weird when you're killing Yeah. All that noise.

4 (23m 49s):
She's, she's, she's kinda used to it.

3 (23m 52s):
Ah, but isn't that strange? What a strange experience for a dog. Yeah, yeah,

4 (23m 56s):
Yeah. To

3 (23m 57s):
Be in The Bahamas. Yeah. And then all of a sudden she's on stage with Tom Green. That's

4 (24m 2s):
Right. She left, she left. Baha

3 (24m 4s):
Bar is cheering and she's just sitting there like, what the fuck is this

4 (24m 7s):
Life? Yeah. Yeah. I'd look at her sometimes and wonder. She left at five weeks old, The Bahamas. So that was, that was a good, good thing. She got outta there five weeks old. She was baby and then was in San Diego. She got adopted by somebody else for three, for like three months basically. And then they couldn't keep her. I got her at three months. And, and you know, it's funny, she grows up in The Bahamas, then she goes to California and then, then I move back with her to, I moved back to Canada since I was last here. and I left, left Los Angeles. Following in your footsteps. The Exodus continues. and

3 (24m 39s):
I wasn't just me, man. I keep getting like labeled as a pied piper. This, but come on, everybody was leaving.

4 (24m 46s):
Yeah. I gotta say though, like, you know, there was a lot of factors to, to change my entire life. I I, you know, I I I sold my house at around the time right after I was here.

3 (24m 60s):
And that was the house that you did the Tom Green show

4 (25m 2s):
From that, that I owned for 18 years that I did the Webo Vision show. In Webo Vision, we called it. And

3 (25m 7s):
Why don't you do a show now?

4 (25m 8s):
So I'm actually, I'm building a podcast studio Beautiful. In my barn. It's in a unheated century barn. And And you gonna heat it? Nope. Not gonna heat it. No. But are

3 (25m 21s):
You gonna have conversations where you're freezing it down?

4 (25m 23s):
Yeah. We're gonna wear really warm jackets. Really? That's one thing that's cool about Canada. Like people, people talk about the cold and how, you know, fucking cold. It is up there. But like, the cool thing about the cold when you get, when you kind of get acclimated to it, is you can kind of regulate your temperature. Like you wear a really warm arctic jacket Yeah. In the barn while you're doing the podcast. We'll probably move it in at some point.

3 (25m 46s):
Also. You can die outside.

4 (25m 48s):
You can die. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (25m 49s):
It's a different thing. Yeah. Yeah. It's a different thing. and it makes more resilient people. Yeah. It's, I think it makes better people. I really do.

4 (25m 57s):
I was, I was thinking about how you do, there's the barn. Yeah. You're

3 (26m 0s):
Freezing your dick off son First

4 (26m 2s):
Of all why? That's my dad. That's my dad there. Yeah. So yeah,

3 (26m 4s):
If you know, which you should get sponsored by like one of those like heater bodysuit companies. Yeah. Like for deer hunters when they sit in those blinds. Yeah.

4 (26m 15s):
That's cool.

3 (26m 15s):
They, if deer hunters, when they sit in tree stands Yeah. You know how fucking cold you get. Yeah. Yeah. See if it's cold out, that's one thing. But if it's cold out and you're not moving, that's another thing. Yeah. We, that's another thing. You could be, it could be fucking zero degrees, but if you're hiking, you're fine.

4 (26m 29s):
Well, I wear these, we're talking,

BAFF (26m 30s):
we're actually talking to a sponsor right now. They're, they're might sponsor it. They're, they're, they're this clothing company, BAFF. And then they, they make the warmest jackets.

4 (26m 38s):
Right. So it's like you can really regulate your Yeah. Right. And that, that's the thing. Like, if you know how to do that. 'cause I, I got, I, it's been a lifestyle change. I bought, I, I got this farm. I'm on a farm now that I live on. And basically I'm gonna live there now for the rest of my life. I know it. I'm never gonna leave this place. I love it so much. That's awesome.

3 (27m 1s):
It's,

4 (27m 2s):
It's a wilderness area with

3 (27m 3s):
Some, I enjoy your videos from there. It looks like you're really enjoying it.

4 (27m 6s):
I am really loving it. You know, it's just, it's just such a, a peace of mind to get up in the morning. And I've got this mule and I got my strap there on the side. It's, yeah. I got my mule and this is a whole new thing. Joe I mean, I don't know. I didn't, First of all, I didn't know anything about horses and mules, but I got a mule and a donkey and some chickens and I'm just So

3 (27m 34s):
A mule is a cross between a donkey and a horse, correct? Yes. Is that how it

4 (27m 37s):
Works? Okay. and I did not know that a year and a half ago.

3 (27m 40s):
They're supposedly like the most resilient animals for like, riding trails and stuff.

4 (27m 46s):
So mules are so, yeah, I've, it's sort of all it, it, it all started with, I found this property and this farm and I wanted to be outside and then there was these two old barns there. and I would look at these barns and I'd say they were kind of calling for something to be put in them. They were a hundred years old. There was stuff star stored in them. And so some, some friends of mine and I, we kind of cleaned up the barns and we, I got this mule and this donkey. And so initially the idea was, I thought a mule would be kind of funny. Right. 'cause they're, they got bigger ears and they're kind of, I was thinking three amigos. I was thinking a donkey, I was thinking a mule was a donkey. I didn't even really know that much about it.

4 (28m 27s):
But, and I started looking for a mule that you could ride. And there's not that many mules in Canada. They're much more of a southwestern, you know, American thing. You know, George Washington bought, brought mules to America. It was a big part of, you know, them settling America. What they would use them for farming. He

3 (28m 48s):
Brought them in.

4 (28m 48s):
Yeah. He was instrumental in being a big part of getting mules here. They would use them for you harvest and, you know, pulling, you know, harvesting crops and doing all the work around the farms and stuff. They have also been used in war a lot. They've been used in military. So

3 (29m 3s):
A lot of the pioneers preferred them to horses. Yeah.

4 (29m 6s):
They're extremely strong and they're very, very smart. They

3 (29m 9s):
Go longer without water too

4 (29m 11s):
Longer with, yep. They use less water, less less food.

3 (29m 14s):
My friend Clay Newcomb is actually a mule expert. Okay. He's been on the podcast before. Oh, cool. And he talked about fancy mules and like how you pick a mule and training a mule.

4 (29m 24s):
Oh, I want to, I want, oh, I follow him actually, I follow clay on clay

3 (29m 27s):
Clay's interesting.

4 (29m 28s):
On, on, on.

3 (29m 29s):
He's got a podcast called the Bear Grease podcast. You know, it's, a lot of it is about bear hunting in Arkansas.

4 (29m 36s):
Oh, nice. Nice. And

3 (29m 37s):
Just interesting like outdoor stories. Like he's a very, very interesting guy. But he just knows a ton about mules.

4 (29m 45s):
Well the thing that's so crazy about them is they're extremely smart to a point that it's, you know, people say stubborn as a mule. It's, it's not really stubbornness. What is it? What is it? Self-preservation. So they figure out, basically I'm, I'm riding this animal now. She's a very big mule as you can see. She's a very big mule. She's called 16. Three hands is the way you measure horses and mules. And she's like as tall as they get. Her mother was a, a horse, so a pers on paint mix. So it's a peron's, a workhorse, almost like a Clydesdale. So she gets her size from that. And her father's a mammoth donkey and she's 10 years old.

4 (30m 26s):
A

3 (30m 26s):
Mammoth

4 (30m 27s):
Donkey. Yeah, a mammoth. Yeah. Yeah. What

3 (30m 29s):
A great name.

4 (30m 30s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, it's, it's a, it's cre it's definitely created a very large, strong, serious animal.

3 (30m 39s):
I wanna see a picture of a mammoth donkey. Yeah. How big are they?

4 (30m 42s):
There we go. Yeah. Yeah. So you can sort of see Whoa,

3 (30m 45s):
Look at the size of that fucking thing. That's a donkey. Yeah.

4 (30m 48s):
Holy

3 (30m 48s):
Shit dude.

4 (30m 49s):
And you can ride those too. So, and that's but

3 (30m 53s):
Are, are donkey's harder between 900 and 1200 pounds? Yeah. Are donkeys harder to train than mules?

4 (31m 2s):
I'm not sure of the answer to that. I'm not sure. But I know that mules are easier to train than horses. So I would assume 'cause they, they learn

3 (31m 8s):
The mules are sterile.

4 (31m 9s):
They're sterile. Yeah. So a

3 (31m 12s):
It's a hybrid animal and it can't breed. Which is, isn't that fascinating that like a male of one species can breed, but the male of another species, they make an offspring. Yeah. It's alive. It has testicles, it has sex drive, it has everything. Can't breed that

4 (31m 29s):
Weird. So the horse has, lemme get this right. I, I've been, I've been trying to learn as much about it as possible. 'cause I'm riding this thing and I don't wanna die. 'cause you can fall off it and it's Oh yeah. It's not fun falling off. I've fallen off a couple of times. Have you really? Yeah. I wasn't too bad though. By yourself? Yeah. Out

3 (31m 45s):
There in the middle of nowhere. Yeah.

4 (31m 46s):
It was the, it was, it was my own fault. I was streaming on Instagram and not paying attention. That's a good for beginners. Don't, don't, don't let go of the reigns and play with your phone while you're riding on a 1400 pound mule fannie's. 1400 pounds. That's fucking

3 (31m 60s):
Huge,

4 (32m 0s):
Man. But yeah, I guess, I guess it's a horse has 64 chromosomes and a donkey has 62. And so when they breed, they take one of, it ends up that the donkey, the the mule has 63 chromosomes, which is not an even number and therefore makes it sterile. So, wow. This is, this is what I'm trying to Oh, so

3 (32m 21s):
That's what, it's something an even

4 (32m 22s):
Number, something kind of complicated like that. Isn't

3 (32m 24s):
It fasting fascinating though that nature figured out a way to stop everything from fucking everything and just getting it pregnant, isn't it like nature's like, we gotta have a system in here because that's just, that's untenable. That's gonna lead to chaos. Yeah. Like if humans, imagine

4 (32m 42s):
Can you imagine if

3 (32m 43s):
Humans could get other things pregnant? It

4 (32m 45s):
Is so good that they,

3 (32m 45s):
Everything would be a hybrid of a human. It's everything.

4 (32m 49s):
Yeah. Like be a lobster human hybrid. Be somebody would do that. You know,

3 (32m 52s):
Island filled with turtle people, people

4 (32m 54s):
Walking around with exoskeletons going, Hey, this ain't so bad. You could be

3 (32m 57s):
On the island, the island and go, I can't believe someone fucked a turtle. Yeah. And there's gonna be this guy like with a turtle shell on Fuck you. Yeah. You know, he's gonna be mad at you. Like, I'm just saying because

4 (33m 7s):
People are insane, insane I mean somebody has probably fucked a turtle.

3 (33m 11s):
100%. Someone's fucked a turtle. Right. If you had to bet everything you own. Sure. A hundred percent you would have to A guy somewhere has been hopped up on some fucking Vietnamese street meth. Right,

4 (33m 23s):
Right.

3 (33m 23s):
Fucked a turtle

4 (33m 24s):
Of course. Yeah.

3 (33m 25s):
Probably American. Yeah. Probably an American guy from the southwest over there hiding from the law or something. Right. And he's methed up and he fucked a turtle. Right. Yeah. People fucked everything

4 (33m 35s):
But no result because of the power, the nature has made these protections. Thankfully

3 (33m 39s):
The wildest hybrid Of course is the liger. Yeah. Because they, they miss the gene that regulates size. Yeah. They, they don't have the same gene that like tiger and a lion does. I've

4 (33m 51s):
Seen those. I forget

3 (33m 51s):
Which one, how does it work? Is it a male lion and a female tiger or a male tiger and a female lion? I forget which one it is. But in that combination, when they make a lager, they just keep growing. Yeah. They're so big.

4 (34m 4s):
Yeah. I've looked at these on the internet. These I don't, I, you know, the thing is, is I guess, I guess a tiger and a lion and a donkey and a horse are close enough together in evolution to be able to, to do this. And there's, yeah, I guess no animal that is close enough to us to be able to luckily come close

3 (34m 22s):
Enough because, you know, they've done experiments with, or

4 (34m 25s):
Maybe we just haven't, primates maybe just nobody's fucked the right thing yet to, I gear it out. I

3 (34m 28s):
Bet someone pulled it off in China or Russia or something like that. They probably got some chimp human hybrid somewhere.

4 (34m 35s):
I've heard sort of internet conspiracy theories that there was a, a Russian experiment that went awry or something like this. But

3 (34m 42s):
There was this one very strange case of a chimpanzee that they call ze. And this chimpanzee had very humanlike features and it lived with a family. I forget if it was a family of researchers, I forget the story, but it, they always end tragically because those things ultimately as they get older, they want be the boss. It's a big male. Right. And they're gonna just fuck you up. They're gonna bite your fingers off or bite your friend's finger. It's always something like that. They always do something horribly, horribly violent eventually. But this one that they had, they had him for a long time and he looked like a human. Yeah. Look, he looked, oh my gosh. It looked weird. Yeah. Like he, and he stood upright a lot and he wore clothes.

3 (35m 22s):
He's got big old donkey dick. Look at that donkey dick. Oh my gosh. The zi of Orange Park. First

4 (35m 30s):
Of all Zi is such a great name. I mean, I almost wish it had worked just for that reason alone. Right. Zi I mean there'd be zis going around. But yeah, I often kind of have

3 (35m 41s):
Little, so if you can find the, the, there's some weird shocking pictures of it. Like that one in the upper right hand corner. The one Yeah. Right there.

4 (35m 48s):
And they're so strong.

3 (35m 49s):
Click, click on that one. Look at its face. Yeah. Like it's got an odd face. And there's some pictures. I think they're probably doctor that made it a little more human looking to confuse people. But the thing like as it got older, see if you can find the older pictures of it. It looked real weird, man. Yeah. but it was just a chimp. It was just a chimp that, you know, had been, it taught to behave that way.

4 (36m 16s):
Yeah.

3 (36m 17s):
Look at how he's walking. He's walking like a chimp. He's not walking like a human look. Look at the shoulders and the arms. That's a chimp.

4 (36m 22s):
I sometimes think about the close calls I've had with a couple times with animals where I wasn't really giving them the, not like just understanding the power they had. Like I had a chimpanzee on a show I did once and on on my TV show back in the day. And, you know, it was a, it was a trained chimpanzee, but massive. And you know, I, I remember after the show I just said, Hey, can I hang out with the chimpanzee? So it came out and I was just sitting out within the parking lot for about half an hour. Just me and this chimpanzee right in front of me looking right in my eyes. It was playing with the buttons on my shirt. And you know, it was the, the trainer was 20 feet away and I just thought it was so the cutest thing. And then, you know, you a few years later read about the chimpanzee ripping that, you know, killing people and how violent they are.

4 (37m 7s):
And you go, man, that is, you know, I had a, I had a macaw at one point, which I actually had to get rid of, you know, big Red Parrot, you know, a Macaw and I got it in when it was 13 months old. And this was my biggest disappointment, I'd say with a pet because I had gotten this macau's named Rex. He was on the web show for a period of time. and it was after you were on that time. But, and I really love this thing. and I love animals, you know, and I, I, I was, I was so fascinated by it because I was realizing, oh this is, this is a pet that I'm gonna have for the rest of my life. and I was all dedicated to this.

4 (37m 50s):
and I was really kind of somewhat moved by the fact that I was gonna be having this beautiful macaw for the rest of my life. And it would, it would pick my teeth and it would stick its beak in my mouth and you know, literally like, just kind of put its plate and chew on my ear and all of this kind of stuff. And then all of a sudden when it got to be about 13 years old, it just became a real asshole. Like, it really, really changed. It had been going from this little baby to, I couldn't put my hand in the cage without it really biting hard. and I almost took my finger off. I had to go in the cage to clean the cage and I couldn't pick it up anymore. And I actually had to find it a new home.

4 (38m 32s):
But do

3 (38m 32s):
You think it just didn't like being in a cage?

4 (38m 34s):
I I'm sure it didn't, I wouldn't like it like it myself, you know? Yeah. And, and, and I and that feels bad too. That's the thing I don't really like about having Yeah,

3 (38m 42s):
You're a prison warden.

4 (38m 43s):
Yeah, exactly. I started to feel really bad. So I took it back to the, the, the bird place where I'd gotten it and they said to me, oh yeah, we don't, it's been 13 years later, you know, I've been spent, I've been spending 75 bucks a month on walnuts for 13 years. Okay. You know, these eat a lot of walnuts. And then they say, oh yeah, we don't sell 'em a cause anymore. Because when they get to be 13, they, they, they change and they become really, really mean. I'm like, well you could've told me that 13 years ago, but so I

3 (39m 10s):
So is like a, like there's an internal clock.

4 (39m 12s):
Yeah. They just, so it's like a puberty thing. Like a puberty thing. Yep. And so, yeah. So I feel bad, but it, I got her a better home. That's

3 (39m 18s):
Why it's scary to be in front of a chimp. Yeah. Because the the chimp.

4 (39m 22s):
Exactly. They could

3 (39m 23s):
Just decide,

4 (39m 24s):
I have these

3 (39m 24s):
Just wanna fuck this

4 (39m 25s):
Guy up. I have these moments where I think about the time when that Macau would have its beak in my mouth. Rip your lips months before it could have ripped my face apart sitting with that. But the, the fanny, the, this mule and I have the donkey as well, who was her companion for her named Kia. She was a 2-year-old donkey. And they, the donkey will lived to be 50 potentially. Wow. And the fanny is a big animal, so she could live to be 30, 35 years old. And so she's 10 now. So, so it's a big responsibility. and I, I really kind of consider them now after having them just for a short time kind of family, you know. Yeah. It's, it's an amazing thing. But they're the thing that's, I think the thing that's most interesting about a mule, lemme just kind of, we won't talk about mules for the whole show, but you know, the, they are so smart that they figure you out.

4 (40m 18s):
So I'm new to this. So when I first got her, I was given one day of training on how to ride a horse, you know, so I learned how to saddle her up. I learned how to get up on this thing. You know, you pull the rain, you look where you wanna go, you push with your foot opposite of the, of the side, you wanna turn, there's this sort of little rhythm to that. and it went great for about a month. But then she started sort of figuring out that I was sort of uncertain in what I was doing. Ooh. She started to understand that I didn't know what I was doing. And so she starts testing me. Right. and I don't necessarily realize that's what's going on. So like how so, so when you sa when I'd be saddling her up, she would move.

4 (41m 1s):
So I'd go to saddle her part, take the satellite's, a big sally, you gotta put it up on her back. You put a saddle pad on, then you gotta put the saddle on. And then she would move into me and kind of push me, you know? and I didn't really know how to prevent that 'cause she's 1400 pounds. So I'd have to kind of lead her around, try to get her back in position. It became this weird sort of dance of me running around trying to get the saddle on. I'd eventually get it on. But what happens is she ends up losing all respect for me because I am, she, she. 'cause I'm letting her sort of be the, the leader. Right. Oh. And so a mule really wants to tr wants me to be the leader.

4 (41m 41s):
And it's hard for me to be the leader at first 'cause I'm uncertain. So they sense, they sense uncertainty. So when I'm riding her, there's wolves at my place in the, in, in the woods.

3 (41m 55s):
Oh, fun.

4 (41m 56s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's real. I got a story about that too. And there's wolves there. I was showing Jamie before the show. There's, there's this video of them on my trail cams, but she sees them coming outta the woods at night. She doesn't necessarily want to go into the woods. She thinks it's unsafe, it's not, 'cause obviously they're not gonna attack her and me. She's a giant mule. But she thinks that, so over time she started to not want to go in that direction. She stopped wanting to turn left. And so what would happen is I would, I started to realize she didn't want to go there. So every time I wanted to go there, I would get nervous. I would feel uncertain, oh, she's not gonna want to go there. She would sense that I was nervous and it would double down and then she wouldn't go in there.

4 (42m 36s):
So I had to kind of get into this real sort of, sort of a psychological retraining, kind of a mule intervention from the people that raised her.

3 (42m 48s):
I have so many questions. Yeah. Hold

4 (42m 49s):
On. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's really wild. It and I, I, there's, I've, I've got, it's really interesting the intricacy of how you, how you figure this out. I'm trying to, now

3 (42m 57s):
Did you have any training before you got a mule?

4 (43m 1s):
I, I, so she was, she was owned by single owner up in northern Canada in a place called Thunder Bay, which is about 18 hours drive north of me Wake holder up there. She's like in Club Med down now, now, now in southern Canada. She's probably loving it. But, and her owners were Kaya and Lisa who, who have a, they breed mules that they're called Twister mules.

3 (43m 27s):
Did you get any training?

4 (43m 28s):
They, they drove her down and they, we spent about three days. Okay. And they showed me how to saddle up and they talked to me about it. and I, you know, I, I learned as much as one can learn in three days, you know, there's the basics. Right? Right. There's the basics. Like, you know, did

3 (43m 42s):
You do a lot of it when, when they were there by yourself? Like they just told you how to do it and you walked over and did it?

4 (43m 48s):
They spent time with me for about three days. But this is kind of, they're telling me I'm doing quite well. 'cause I actually am able to, to handle this animal now. but it's been an interesting journey. The last, you know, since June. I got her in June. 'cause, 'cause you know, at first it's the, at the very first sort of on the surface way that you ride a mule is you look where you want to go. Lightly pull the rain on. If you wanna go left, you pull the left lane rain lightly. If, if that doesn't work, you but you, you might not even have to pull the rain. You could just look where you want to go.

4 (44m 28s):
And they, they feel your body shifting. They sense your intent. Mm. And they, and you, you, you have to look in that direction. Like avatar, when you link up with the dragon, it's like tele, it's like telepathy for sure. Yeah. It really is. And you feel it. And it's such a really cool feeling when you really get into the pocket with it. Mm. So then you pull, like, then you, you a little push with your foot. And so that's all sort of very, you know, physical stuff. and it worked fine for a while. But then, you know, I didn't quite understand the overall psychological sort of hierarchy that gets created and a trust level that's created between the mule and myself.

4 (45m 11s):
The more I screwed up, she's just even in the barnyard, the more I let her get in my space. You don't ever wanna let a, a mule get in your space. Like kits in your space, you a a a very sort of a, you know, easy way to control that is you can just put your hands up to her eyes like that. Like, you know, you don't even have to touch her. Right? Mm. You don and then they back off. I didn't know that. Right. So I was kinda like, I'm pushing it. Oh it like I know, like trying to stop and it realizes how small you are and it realize how small I am and it realizes I know what I'm doing and it loses all respect. And, and so you start to kind of, so once you start to learn a little bit deeper about how to handle those just on the ground with her, then, then once you get up on her, she has a little bit more respect and is more apt to listen to you.

4 (45m 60s):
but it was really interesting 'cause they, they, they came back. They're, they're really great. They're, they're trying to bring more mules into Canada 'cause they love mules and, and they, you know, there is something very different and special about mules 'cause of their intelligence. And so it's really interesting. They, they came back and spent some more time with me and, and we would go out, we went out on the, the trail and there's, Fannie doesn't like ATVs. Okay. So I've got this Polaris side by side that I drive around the property on. It's a noisy, you know, at TV four wheel vehicle thing. And they were driving ahead of me and kind of instruct me.

4 (46m 43s):
And I'm following along and we're coming up the trail and they stopped. And as we approach the a TV, it's parked on the trail. There's a space on the side. I'm gonna ride around the trail, but in my head I'm thinking, oh, Fanny's not gonna want to go around this a TV. And we get up there and I try to turn around the a TV by looking, pulling the rain, pushing my leg. She just stops. And when she stops and when she decides she's doesn't wanna go, this isn't like a little trail riding, you know, carnival horse, she gets going and will turn and really kind of get quite, you know, aggressive. Aggressive in a way. And, which is kind of exciting though, I gotta tell you. and I was a skateboarder. I, I pretty, I got pretty good balance. So I was kind of, it was kind of interesting.

4 (47m 25s):
But the thing that was was wild about us. So then I go, well she's, she's not gonna wanna go around the, at TVI say to Diya and Lisa and they, and they say No, no. Well, she, it's not that she doesn't want to go around the at TV, it's she knows that you think she doesn't wanna go around the at TV, you have to think in your head that she wants to go around the at TV.

3 (47m 45s):
What?

4 (47m 45s):
Yeah. Because when you really Yeah. Because when, when you're subconsciously, whether we know it or not as human beings, you know, we didn't always have language. Right? Right. We didn we someone invented language at some point before that you were just kind of, there's all this non-verbal communication and energy. Right. So you get up to the A TV and if I'm thinking, oh, she's not going around the at TV, oh look, look, I just, my whole body just went like that. You know, I sighed. I felt like a sense of defeat. Right. She feels that just through her saddle, it's not, it's not total like voodoo, she feels like.

3 (48m 21s):
Yeah. But there might be a little bit of voodoo

4 (48m 23s):
Possibly as well. I mean, it seems like there's a magic to

3 (48m 25s):
It. Yeah. Attribute all that to body.

4 (48m 27s):
She feels that, she feels it. She's so smart that, so a horse doesn't necessarily sense that as easily as a mule. Like, like quite a bit less easily. So that's why people say mules are stubborn because they're sensing all of these little nonverbal cues that a horse might just be apt to say, oh, he pulled on the reigns, so I'm gonna go, gonna go that way. He pull, he, he pushed his foot. So I'm gonna go that way. So, and that's why also mules are also extremely, you know, they're used in war and they're used in Grand Canyon trail riding and things like this. 'cause you know, if a horse is walking along a edge of a cliff and a snake jumps out, the horse might be apt to just jump the other way off the cliff killing itself.

4 (49m 10s):
And whereas a mule will instantly identify Cliff that way, snake that way. Danger both ways. Mule will kill the snake. Hmm. It'll stomp out the snake. So, or, or it at least won't jump off the cliff. Right. So it's,

3 (49m 24s):
That's way better.

4 (49m 25s):
Yeah. Better.

3 (49m 26s):
I think we should just all have mules.

4 (49m 27s):
All have mules. Wait, you should get a mule. You should get

3 (49m 29s):
A mule. I definitely would not. Yeah. Yeah. Have the time to be training a mule. It seems like that's, here's my question though. There's the other question I, I gotta remember. Why would you think that the wolves would not attack the mule?

4 (49m 43s):
Well, it's not First of all.

3 (49m 46s):
'cause like, if she's scared of the

4 (49m 48s):
Wolves, you know, donkey,

3 (49m 50s):
I think she should be scared of

4 (49m 51s):
The wolves. You know, donkeys and mules, but especially donkeys and mules have donkeys. So they're actually used a lot as, as livestock protection animals. So, 'cause they'll stomp out a coyote or a wolf. Mm. So a lot of farmers get them, put 'em in with their sheep and they'll actually protect the herd. So That's awesome. So it's, there's, it's, it's not impossible, but it is pretty uncommon that that coyotes and in my area, the wolves are not gray wolves, they're timber wolves. So they're not, you know, as big. They're not big as big, but they're, they're big enough though. They're about the size of huskies.

3 (50m 27s):
So they, they mostly kill like deer and

4 (50m 30s):
Whatever, deer and smaller stuff. Like they

3 (50m 32s):
Don't try for elk or anything like that because the big gray, the big gray wolves will take out elks.

4 (50m 36s):
Yeah, I'm sure they, you know, I think they take out moose. Yeah, absolutely. Moose

3 (50m 40s):
Are so big, man. For a wolf to take out a moose. That's crazy. Yeah.

4 (50m 44s):
Yeah. These are the w these are my trail cams at my place. Oh, wow.

3 (50m 46s):
Look, dropping a deuce right there on your trail cam staring you in the eye. That's an alpha move right there, son. I guarantee that's the alpha. Yeah, yeah, yeah. He knows, he knows You got that trail camera. You say Tom Green. Check this out, bitch.

4 (50m 58s):
Yeah. This is shit

3 (50m 59s):
Right in front of your camera.

4 (50m 60s):
So it's, it's, you know, it's the only way to know 100% for certain that they're wolves and not a hybrid. I know, you know, all about this Joe, but like the co hoy wolves is to do a DNA test and Yeah. But but, but

3 (51m 12s):
Coy wolf is kind of a misnomer, you know, because the coyote is a wolf.

4 (51m 17s):
Yeah, yeah,

3 (51m 18s):
Yeah. The reason why the coyote spread so far across the country is because they, they have like a built-in mechanism to protect them from gray wolves. 'cause gray wolves would kill the coyotes. Yeah. Whereas the red wolves in the east coast would breed with the coyotes. And that's where you get the co koy wolf. But I think they're viable. I think when they breed they can breed. Oh yeah. I don't think they're like a donkey or like a mule rather

4 (51m 46s):
You a coyote and a

3 (51m 47s):
Wolfly. I think when the, when the Yeah, absolutely. Like the coy wolves, whatever they call 'em, mc, coy wolves, I think they're viable. Yeah. I think they have babies.

4 (51m 53s):
Yeah, absolutely. No, they are for sure. Yeah. Yeah. and

3 (51m 55s):
It, it's not really a and it's not different. It's just kinda

4 (51m 59s):
Like two different kind of dogs or something. Exactly.

3 (52m 1s):
Exactly.

4 (52m 2s):
Yeah. 'cause I've been getting some information about this from a, a wolf researcher up who lives near near me and he has sort of put out some trail cams and we've, we've actually laid out some fur traps that can get a little bit of their fur. And we're gonna send it for a DNA sample to find out exactly the percentage of DNA that wolf to coyote that we have here. 'cause Yeah, it's, it's kind of I know you live out in the wilderness, you know, you find these kinds of things are, I, I find it quite interesting to just kind of really kind of dive into, into it deep

3 (52m 41s):
And try to figure it out. It, it's, you're outta there in the real wild. You're in the wild where there's packs of predators in your neighborhood.

4 (52m 48s):
And I, wish I had bare footage right now, but I I I, it's not online, but this year I put out my, my trail cams and I got like, I'd say a little more than a half dozen distinct different bears on that exact trail. Whoa. Which is, you know, on my property, right by my house. Brown

3 (53m 8s):
Bear or Black

4 (53m 8s):
Bear. Black Bear. Yeah. Yeah. We don't have grizzlies out east. So it's just in Canada even. It's all, they're all not yet. Not

3 (53m 14s):
Yet. The liberals will try to reintroduce 'em. You need more things to be scared of.

4 (53m 19s):
Well, you know, I'm

3 (53m 20s):
Talking about bringing Grizzlies back to California.

4 (53m 22s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I want you to come to Canada. Joe I know. I know you haven't come to Canada, but, but lately. But, but you, you gotta come to Canada because here's the thing, here's the thing. I, because I watch the show all the time, so I know. I know I know what you I know your feelings about Canada. But it's, here's the thing, like

3 (53m 38s):
Everybody

4 (53m 38s):
Loves you in Canada, you know, so it's, you got, I, I'm coming down here. Everybody's so stoked that I'm here. and I,

3 (53m 45s):
I love Canadians. I just hate their government.

4 (53m 48s):
And sometimes Is

3 (53m 48s):
That Pierre? How do you say his last name? Ve

4 (53m 51s):
Yeah. Well it's French, so it's, it's, well I don't think he's French, but the name's French Pierre Pev Poly sort of a weird r silent R Yeah. It's

3 (53m 58s):
A strange is as you see it written down, it's very difficult.

4 (54m 2s):
Pev remember how to say poly? Yeah.

3 (54m 3s):
That guy, that guy makes so much more sense. Yeah.

4 (54m 7s):
He,

3 (54m 8s):
He's so common sense and just calling out all the nonsense that's been done under this administration. It's just so sad to watch. So

4 (54m 17s):
This is the thing that I, I kind of, I guess just wanted to throw out there, which is, it's, it's, it's not Unlike here in the us right? You've got bidet as the president now. Right. And then you, you've got essentially a Democrat. We, we actually call our Democrats the liberals. Right. That's how, that's how unabashed we are liberal up there. We actually call the party the liberal party. It's not a bad word up there. Right. They actually call them the liberals.

3 (54m 40s):
And the other ones are conservatives

4 (54m 41s):
And conservatives, liberals and conservatives. But it's the same thing. You know, like half the country hates the, the party in power right now, just like as much as anybody. You know? And it's just a constant thing. And they want to get 'em out and, and so, you know, it's just, I I just wanted to, you know, as a proud Canadian, want to throw out the distinction that, you know, Canada's you know, it's like here, it's the same bullshit that's here. Everybody's arguing about issues, important issues. It's being reinforced, you know, through these algorithms. People get mad about it, then they start arguing. But, so, you know, like I, I sometimes kind of go, wouldn't it be interesting if Pierre Poll have won the next election?

4 (55m 26s):
Right. 'cause then all of a sudden we'd have a conservative government up there and, and let's say Bidet won down here. You got conservative government up there. And then Tucker Carlson might be going up to Canada talking about how great we are all of a sudden, you know, because it just can switch on a dime. You know. It

3 (55m 40s):
Could, it could go back. and

4 (55m 41s):
It has, before I've had the, you know, there's been my lifetime. Joe Clark was the first conservative prime minister. Then there was Brian Mulroy. And Steven Harper was pretty recent. So, but anyways, I don't like talking politics, but I do, I did bring something about Canada that I loved. I I wanted to, I wanted

3 (55m 59s):
To. Okay. It's a good

4 (56m 0s):
Thing. I, I'm trying not to talk politics too much. 'cause it's like,

3 (56m 5s):
It's gross.

4 (56m 6s):
Just every, everybody gets all mad, you know? Yep.

3 (56m 9s):
I just

4 (56m 9s):
Don don't fuck. I kind of think like, wouldn't it be cool if the new thing became, people start to realize that the division is almost worse than what we're arguing about.

3 (56m 22s):
Well, the division is absolutely worse than what we're arguing about. Yeah. Most people want good things. Oh, syrup. This

4 (56m 27s):
Is for you. Maple syrup and your family a a huge this and I brought one for us too, just to try Jesus Christ. This is the freshest best Canadian maple syrup made by my friends, the con boys. Ryan and Jason. Shout it to Ryan and Jason. George and Darlene. And they make this on their property. Damn. They have, you know, thousands of maple trees tapped. Wow. And this is, you know, a family run business. They've been doing this for hundreds of years like this.

3 (56m 51s):
That is a lot of work.

4 (56m 53s):
Yeah. It's, it's a whole

3 (56m 55s):
Maple syrup, like making me, I've watched people make maple syrup on YouTube. It's a lot of work. Yeah. It's crazy how much work is involved.

4 (57m 2s):
And it's, it's really kind of incredible to go see how they do it. Because they've built these, like, I can't describe it properly, but reverse osmosis machines where they have tubes coming, you know, with the sap from all the, in the spring, the sap starts flowing, comes through these tubes from all through the woods on their property. It runs out to their, their barn where they have these machines that do something called reverse osmosis. I don't know what it is doing exactly, but they have to do it. And then it goes into this giant vat with fires, with wood burn fires. And they boil the sap down until, you know, it becomes thicker and there's more sugar content. And then you have this delicious syrup. But I brought a couple of,

3 (57m 42s):
It's literally the blood of trees that you pour on pancakes.

4 (57m 46s):
It is. And you know what it is? Are

3 (57m 48s):
We gonna drink it like in shot glasses?

4 (57m 50s):
I just thought, as opposed to drinking whiskey till we're on the floor this time.

3 (57m 55s):
I never made it to the floor. Sir, you made to the floor. I maintained,

4 (57m 59s):
I don't remember what happened with you. The level of motion

3 (58m 1s):
And the ability to conversate.

4 (58m 5s):
Oh my gosh. Okay. Well

3 (58m 7s):
Dude, that's diabetes in a shot glass. We'll

4 (58m 9s):
Just, we'll just do a shot, but I want you to see this is real maple syrup. Okay. Canadian maple syrup. It's convoy maple syrup. They're my friends. They're the best, best friends that I, you know, that you'd ever want. And it's not your manufactured cheers. Sort of processed shit, you know. Cheers.

3 (58m 25s):
Do you have to do it like a shot? No. That

4 (58m 27s):
Seems gross. Yeah, you can. Yeah, absolutely.

3 (58m 29s):
Oh my God, I can't drink this whole thing. Yeah,

4 (58m 32s):
It's

3 (58m 33s):
Really good though.

4 (58m 33s):
Pour it on some pancakes. It's delicious. Yeah.

3 (58m 35s):
It just makes you think like, how much sugar are you getting from pancakes with a pile of maple syrup on You're getting a fuck ton of sugar. Yeah. Like how much sugar is in, what is the shot glass? How many ounces is that? An ounce?

4 (58m 48s):
I should know this

3 (58m 49s):
One ounce. Let's just see how much sugar is in one ounce of maple syrup.

4 (58m 55s):
Yeah. Yeah.

3 (58m 57s):
God, how could you drink that?

4 (58m 58s):
Yeah, no, you don't really drink maple syrup. Right? It's, we're just doing it for a guy. But I know for fun, but pour it on your pancakes or,

3 (59m 3s):
It's amazing how good it tastes on your pancakes. No, it's

4 (59m 5s):
Good in coffee. Put it in your coffee in the morning. Oh. So IIII keep a big jug of it. 17

3 (59m 11s):
Grams. 17 grams in a shot glass. Yeah. Yeah. and I guarantee you, if I'm having pancakes, I am drowning those pitches.

4 (59m 18s):
Yeah, absolutely. So I got you. I'll get you more whenever you need some. It's, it's, it's the best. It's different than

3 (59m 23s):
Waffles with that on it. Oh yeah. Sun, lots of butter. Oh yeah. Up to 20. Up to 20. Okay. Lot 20. So if I'm having pancakes, I'm having 120 at least.

4 (59m 35s):
Yeah.

3 (59m 35s):
I'm, I'm pie I'm pouring a bunch of maple syrup on that shit. Six ounces. Yeah. Easy, easy. Six ounces. Like a glass of it. Yeah. I'm getting in between the stack. Pouring a little in there.

4 (59m 47s):
It's just a nice little boost. A little energy boost. You know,

3 (59m 50s):
It's for like five minutes. Yeah. Then you're in a coma for the rest of the day. Yeah, yeah,

4 (59m 54s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Absolutely. Yeah.

3 (59m 57s):
But I guess if you're out there on your farm fucking throwing hay around All day, exhausted. Right.

4 (1h 0m 5s):
I I You burn off. I did this this summer in August. We, I have some, some fields with hay. We cut the fields and, and I've some local farmers that helped me cut the fields to square bales.

3 (1h 0m 19s):
So you're really farming.

4 (1h 0m 21s):
Yeah, I had farming

3 (1h 0m 22s):
For real, for real

4 (1h 0m 23s):
Farming hay for my, for my animals. Yeah. I had 580 bales of hay off the property this year. Wow. And we had to lift it all, carry it all onto, you know, into a hay wagon. See, 'cause I'm gonna try it a little figure out a way to do it a little differently next year. But yeah, normally they would, the farmers that have done my property for years, they've been doing it with these big circle round bales, you know. But I wanted to get square bales this year. 'cause it's easier to handle for the horses every day. Or the mules and the donkey every day. So see, every day I go to the barn, I pick up a bale feed the eat about a bale and a half of hay a day. It's cool. 'cause like from May, June till about the end of September, you don't even have to feed them.

4 (1h 1m 8s):
They're just out in the pasture eating grass. Mm. Which I often think about, you know, when you think about vegetarians and you go, how do you put on, you know, muscle with just veg and you can look at this giant animal. All it's doing is eating grass. All day. They're massive. But, but, but yeah. So that, that, I gotta figure out a better way to get it in the barn this year. 'cause some of my friend,

3 (1h 1m 28s):
They have to eat it All day long. That's the difference between eating meat and eating grass. Yeah. If you watch predators, predators eat and then they sleep All day.

4 (1h 1m 38s):
But

3 (1h 1m 39s):
You watch a donkey. Yeah. Those motherfuckers are just eating All day long. Yeah. They have to eat All day long. Yeah. They're always eating. Yeah. Because there's not a lot of protein in that food. It's gotta break down in their weird digestive tract. Yeah.

4 (1h 1m 54s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 1m 54s):
It's ate digestive tract.

4 (1h 1m 57s):
So Fannie and Kiev come from a, a, a pasture that had, you know, 20 other animals in it to this my place where they're just there by themselves with the whole field to themselves. So Fannie was putting on some weight last summer. I have to now kind of monitor how much he's out in the pasture. I should

3 (1h 2m 12s):
Correct myself undulates or cows and shit. I'm thinking of like thinking of cows. Right.

4 (1h 2m 17s):
The weird stomachs and stuff. I'm not exactly sure how the stomachs work on these.

3 (1h 2m 20s):
I don't know how the on equines, but I know that, like, to think that you could get that jack eaten vegetables is ridiculous. Right.

4 (1h 2m 30s):
That's what I was kind of thinking because I always kind.

3 (1h 2m 32s):
But vegans always like to make that comparison. Yeah. The gorillas, they nothing but vegetables. They have a totally different body. True.

4 (1h 2m 39s):
Everything. True. They're also not humans. Yeah.

3 (1h 2m 41s):
Yeah. They're not human beings. Yeah. You know, it doesn't mean if you ate what a fucking horse eats, you'd look like a horse. You dumb ass. You're not a horse. And also, do you know how annoying that would be to have to eat grass All day?

4 (1h 2m 55s):
It doesn't sound like a blast. Not a lot of variety there. Yeah. You're, I think about that. I have cookies for them. I have little Oh, that's cool. I have little, I have a, a vitamin sort of a vitamin mix of that I give them every day

3 (1h 3m 9s):
Is variation to their diet. Good though. Like for some animals, when you, you, you

4 (1h 3m 14s):
Got it for instance, apples. Okay. I have apple trees at the property and she, that's one of the places she loves to walk towards the apple tree. Right. Because there's apples on the ground. So, and I, she always, you know, you can feel her pulling towards the apple tree. So, but you know, You don't want her to eat, you know, a bunch of apples. 'cause that can create acid in their stomach and it can get sick

3 (1h 3m 33s):
From that. Yeah, I was wondering that. Yeah. Like what happens to them in the wild though, if they find a bunch of

4 (1h 3m 37s):
Apples. Yeah. It's interesting. Yeah. and I, I'm, I'm not sure they

3 (1h 3m 40s):
Fucked up.

4 (1h 3m 41s):
I'm, I'm not sure if they, I don't know the answer to that, that you know, but maybe they kind of somehow self-regulate when they're left to their own. But you know, you can feed them carrots. And one thing, I haven't done this yet, but I understand that they really, like, I was just told, 'cause I'm actually thinking what kind of variety can I give the ladies? You know? So they really like a frozen watermelon to be tossed into their Oh, no kidding. So, and they'll just

3 (1h 4m 2s):
Bears like that too.

4 (1h 4m 3s):
Oh yeah. Yeah.

3 (1h 4m 4s):
We went to a grizzly bear. I guess it's just like a conservation center where they, they have these enormous place. It's in Montana, but it's, they have, it's, they're like captive, but it's really an enormous in, in like construction thing. And the bears have like swimming pools and shit. And they would roll them out, these frozen watermelons and watch them bite through a frozen watermelon will scare the living fuck outta you. Right. Because they go through it. Like, it's nothing. It's a

4 (1h 4m 36s):
Grizzly. Does that, I've seen hippopotamus do it on YouTube. But a grizzly does that too. I think

3 (1h 4m 40s):
Most of the time the hippos are doing it. It's not with a frozen one. Yeah. Yeah. They, but they were saying that this bear's favorite treat is frozen watermelons give 'em a frozen watermelon. You just go through it like it's a grape.

4 (1h 4m 50s):
See, grizzlies are terrifying. Yeah. I, I I I, I, I, I, although I admit that I am also actually probably, it's probably not really a, a warranted or, or, or fear. But I am, I am nervous about these black bears, you know, on the property. But you

3 (1h 5m 7s):
Should be nervous. Whatcha talking about why, say

4 (1h 5m 8s):
They do attack people occasionally they

3 (1h 5m 10s):
Will attack you and if, if black bears attack you, they're attacking you to eat you.

4 (1h 5m 14s):
Yeah, yeah.

3 (1h 5m 15s):
It's a little bit different.

4 (1h 5m 16s):
Statistically the odds are in my favor. I think it's not as like Grizzlys, they've attacked a lot of people and I think black bears maybe only attack like, you know, one person a year or something like that. And

3 (1h 5m 25s):
They attack people. Yeah. Yeah. I mean there's a guy who got killed at over by Rutgers in New Jersey. He was killed by a black bear.

4 (1h 5m 31s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 5m 32s):
Yeah. And there was a, a friend of a buddy of mine's went hunting for his very first trip. He was in his tent at night and a 500 pound predatory black bear. Yeah. Tried to remove him from the tent and his friend shot the bear and accidentally shot his friend in the wrist. Yeah. So he got shot in the wrist with a rifle. The bear gets shot, the bear runs off after it gets shot. And then they don't, I think they recovered it. I think it's dead. Yeah. But imagine your first night ever camping in a tent and a black bear tries to pull you out and eat you.

4 (1h 6m 7s):
Yeah. So I think sometimes people bring food in their tent. That's one common mistake. So

3 (1h 6m 13s):
Yeah. Your food bitch, your

4 (1h 6m 15s):
Food. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (1h 6m 16s):
Your food, your food in the tent. Your pigs

4 (1h 6m 18s):
In a blanket. But if you bring in like, you know, you should really, that is one thing that is why they go in the tents lot. They smell, you know, someone brought their sandwich in the tent or whatever. That's true. But, but yeah. No I mean, look, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm not, I'm, I'm, I'm right there with you. It, there's, there's something about it though that, well you, you know, when you're out there in nature and you kind of, you're, you're sort of natural instincts kicking where you feel senses. You feel it. Yeah. And the fact that the fact that there is something unpredictable or that you don't understand out there is kind of exciting. You know, like the fact that there is, you know, I, I'm not really truly expecting to get attacked by a bear, but you know, your senses are alert.

4 (1h 7m 3s):
You're listening into the woods, you know, they're there, you know, they know you're there and they've probably left. But eh, maybe this is the one time where they're walking along with their cub and you get in the wrong position at the wrong time. And so, you know, often when I go for a walk, I have a bear spray on me. I, I sometimes, you know, have a rifle on me. I don't carry it with me every time I leave the house, but I've got a few rifles and, and that I, you know, I might, I I I've not really been a hunter, you know, in my life, but I, I kind of, so many people around me, you know, around the country, everybody hunts and I think I'm gonna, maybe, how

3 (1h 7m 40s):
Much land do you have?

4 (1h 7m 43s):
150 acres. So it's kind of,

3 (1h 7m 45s):
We can certainly hunt

4 (1h 7m 46s):
On that. Yeah. And there's deer and it's, it's quite, quite, I'm sure it's quite something that I never really expected to, to, to kind of live like that. But it's really kind of interesting. And then it backs onto lots of, you know, thousands and thousands of acres of protected wilderness. So they, you know, it's,

3 (1h 8m 5s):
Are you allowed to hunt back there?

4 (1h 8m 6s):
Yeah. Yeah. And, and on my property too. So

3 (1h 8m 9s):
What is the tag allocation? Like, do you get landowner tags? Do you get tags because you're a resident of the area, like

4 (1h 8m 16s):
To work up there, you still, you still have to get a hunting license. So Right. In Canada, you know, it's, if you want to get a rifle First of all, it's completely different than in Texas. Right. You can't just go buy buy one. You have to go take, it's like getting your driver's license, essentially. You have to go take, you have to write a, a test and you have to pass it, and you have to do a course, a safety course. And then you have to send that into the RCMP, the, the Canadian, you know, the Mounties. Right. They review it and then, you know, a couple months later you get your, you get your non-restricted firearms license, which allows you to go by a rifle. I've been collecting lever action rifles, you know, so I've gotten just, you know, that's cool.

4 (1h 8m 57s):
Relatively new to, to this. But I, you know, I, when I was out in the desert, I I, I had a shotgun with me. I had a hunting license when I was in New Mexico. I was trying to hunt some quail. Never saw a bird though. So it was, you know, I was hunting, but I never saw anything. So I didn't really do, it's, it's hard hunting. I was still hunting, but I never saw anything, so. Right. But yeah, so it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, there's, that's why I'm trying to think of what I want to tell you here, Joe. That's why I think I really would love you to come up to Canada sometime and visit maybe, and come up and do some shows up there. People would love to see you. And there's just such a huge outdoors hunting, fishing culture. That's what being Canadian is once you get outta the city.

4 (1h 9m 36s):
Right? Yeah. It's, people are just, just, it's, people love to hunt. People love to fish. I go ice fishing with my, my friends. We go set up a didn't

3 (1h 9m 45s):
They put new restrictions on firearms up there?

4 (1h 9m 48s):
They just, they just banned handguns. Absolutely. Yeah. But not rifles. Yeah. Which is pretty extreme from, from an American standpoint. Certainly I mean to think that, obviously.

3 (1h 9m 60s):
So if you own handguns, do you have to get rid of them?

4 (1h 10m 2s):
No. You're not allowed to sell them to anybody, and you just, you're stuck with them. So it's that, that, and that's the probably the biggest, biggest change that's happened in, you know, the, you, there is also no automatic weapons up there. So you can't get a AR 15, for example. It's So

3 (1h 10m 20s):
Ar fifteens aren't automatic or

4 (1h 10m 22s):
It Yeah, there's semi that caliber or whatever, whatever. Yeah. You can't get those, those weapons. But you can get a, you know, a rifle, a shotgun, you know, I have a, I have a 3 0 8, I have a 2 4 3, I have a 22, I have a shotgun. You know, I have 20 gauge, 12 gauge. All, all the normal hunting rifles are fine. So what

3 (1h 10m 42s):
Was the thought process behind banning firearms or banning pistols?

4 (1h 10m 48s):
Well, I don't, I don't, I wasn't really kind of, I, I think it was just an attempt to curb, so people

3 (1h 10m 56s):
Voted on,

4 (1h 10m 58s):
Well they, they voted for the government and the government did it. So, yeah. So, so, you know, so, you know, obviously some people aren't too happy about it. One thing about Canada is like there's, the gun culture is different up there. It's mo mo more people are, I think I'm, I'm, I'm gonna get in trouble with the people that are handgun enthusiasts in Canada, but it's just not as common up there more, it's more about hunting and, and hunting rifles. And, but there are probably a lot of people that are pretty upset about it for sure. But, you know, it's, you know, it's, they're not, they're not actually taking away people's rifles or, or anything like that.

4 (1h 11m 38s):
So, but

3 (1h 11m 40s):
One of the exemptions is individuals train, compete or coach in a handgun shooting discipline that is on the program of International Olympic committee or the International Paralympic committee looks like someone's gonna have to become a shooter.

4 (1h 11m 57s):
Yeah. I compete. I, I'm, I'm personally not

3 (1h 11m 59s):
A competing shooting. That's why I have to have this gun.

4 (1h 12m 1s):
I'm not really, like, I don't really, you know, I like, I like my lever action rifle. I, I like my shotgun and I. Think I might might hunt turkeys this year. I'd like to do that with a lot of turkeys on the property. I'm not really, I I don't necessarily feel like I need a handgun. It's, it's, it's a different kind of,

3 (1h 12m 22s):
I don't necessarily feel that anybody should tell me that I can't have a handgun. Yeah. Especially not the government. Yeah. Especially not the government that's already done some really shady shit. Yeah. Yeah. Like what they did with the truck drivers.

4 (1h 12m 32s):
Right. Well, I'm from Ottawa too. Yeah. So the, the trucker rally was, was interesting. Dude. They

3 (1h 12m 38s):
Fucking took away their bank accounts. They, they, they seized people's, they closed people's and froze people's bank accounts that just donated money.

4 (1h 12m 47s):
Yeah. Is that coffee? Yes. You know, you know what? I, I was First of all the trucker rally is, was interesting. 'cause I'm from Ottawa, so I grew up, you know, the Parliament Hill, I'm sure you saw it on the news, like the, the, the Parliament buildings is our, is our, basically our Congress and our, our senate combined essentially the House of Commons and the Senate. You know, downtown Ottawa is like Washington DC Right? That's, that's our Washington dc I grew up there. I grew up skateboarding on the parliament building's front steps. You know, I did a radio show. This is something about the freedoms of Canada that I think is interesting. Okay. When I was a kid, I did a college radio show and it was midnight till two in the morning.

4 (1h 13m 29s):
And, and I, I would say during the show, okay, after the show, everybody show up on Parliament Hill, bring a soccer ball, let's go play soccer. And then we'd show up there with pizzas and we'd play soccer on the front lawn of the Canadian government till four in the morning. Every half hour the bell would go burn the RCMP cops would come, they'd shine their lights out on the, on the field. It was super positive. Right. I love Ottawa. It's a amazing city. And, and I, I I understand that everybody has the right to express their, their their, their dissent.

4 (1h 14m 9s):
Right. and I think Trudeau probably did overstep with some of his reaction to that with some of the things he said specifically. But, but there was also this element of not only was the city shut down, there's people that lived downtown. So there, you know, those horns were, these air horns, there was, there was really kind of, there's babies sleeping. It's like really like a neighborhood. Right. So it's kind of funny in a way, the, the difference between Canadians and Americans sometimes. I'm both right. I'm a dual citizen. I love, I love, I love

3 (1h 14m 42s):
Fence rider.

4 (1h 14m 44s):
No, I just, I just love both countries. You know, I've lived here for 20 years. I, you know, I, I but what, what, you know, what is sort of a comparable thing I think was, you know what, you know, in the United States they, on January, was it January 6th, you know, they did more than freeze those people's bank accounts. Right. They threw 'em all in jail. Right. So they

3 (1h 15m 10s):
Threw a lot of 'em in jail.

4 (1h 15m 11s):
Yeah. So it's sort of, I'd say it's like a comparison comparable thing. It's like, I guess that's the thing I just kind of No, that's different feel is it's like, hold on. There's sort of comparison.

3 (1h 15m 19s):
Hold on, hold on, hold on. First of all, it's different because they entered into the capitol building.

4 (1h 15m 23s):
Right. Right. You're

3 (1h 15m 24s):
Not supposed to do that. Yeah. They, a lot of people broke glass. Yeah. They smashed windows. They did a lot of shit. It was also, it's not comparable because it seems like they were instigated in some way. Yeah. At least partially by, by people in the audience that wanted them to go in there. Yeah. Now whether those people were federal agents or whether those people are Antifa, whether those people were democratic operatives that want to turn this into chaos because it's a great way to attack Donald Trump. Yeah. Whatever it was, there definitely was people that were instigating people to get into the building. There's video recordings of it. There's also weird instances of cops opening gates. Yeah. Letting people in. Oh yeah. The fact that it was severely under policed when they had the George Floyd protest, the Black Lives Matter protest, they had way more cops there for that than they did for this crazy thing where the dude is denying the election and is rabid fans are gonna show up and you're not prepared for this.

3 (1h 16m 20s):
That seems the whole thing seems like if I was gonna make a playbook, if I was gonna instigate a bunch of dumb asses to go do something really stupid, 'cause it'll make their leader look like a fascist and, and Hitler, that's how I would do it. So you have that too. Yeah. It's not as simple as the trucker protest was a legitimate protest where a bunch of people were like, why are you telling me that I have to take this experimental medic medication or I can't work. Yeah. Yeah. Like, where is the fucking information? Where is, and now over time, we've seen now that the, you know, the, the studies that they did do, they don't have to release them for like 75 years.

3 (1h 17m 4s):
You know about all that. Yeah. Like all the, the paperwork involving the vaccines. Yeah. What is, what is the exact ruling of like, what information they're withholding for 75 years. Let's be real clear on that. But then it's also how many people we know that got injured by it. Yeah. You're, you're smart to be reluctant to do something that's new given the history and track record of pharmaceutical drugs in this country. Absolutely. Especially when you have a novel new thing. The idea that this is gonna be the one that's absolutely innocuous, you should,

4 (1h 17m 33s):
It's not gonna harm anyone. At the very least you should be able to, to, to consider not doing it. Talk about not doing it. But

3 (1h 17m 38s):
Listen man, there's no drugs like that. There's no drugs that have a, a gigantic effect on anything that don't have some people that have horrible adverse reactions to them. Yeah. Yeah. Even normal shit. Some people DD people die from Tylenol all the time, man. They overdose on it. Yeah. People die from all kinds of medication. It turns out they have an allergy to, it's like weird shit happens with people when you start if and people are right to be reluctant. Yeah. But you might be right and you might be wrong, but your right to express that, you don't think the government should be able to tell you what you can and can't do Specif specifically about putting something into your body or you can't work.

3 (1h 18m 19s):
That's crazy. So that's that protest. It's a different protest. Yeah, for sure. The whole vibe behind it is different. Absolutely. Absolutely.

4 (1h 18m 25s):
It's in response. It's a different subject for sure. But

3 (1h 18m 27s):
It's in response to tyranny, FOIA requests, the FDA had previously said that it takes approximately eight minutes per page to process records for the FOIA requests. And that it could only review and release 500 pages a month, which is 6,000 pages a year. At that rate, it would take 75 years to release all the data. That's crazy. Yeah. That's so crazy.

4 (1h 18m 55s):
I guess the point I'm trying to make, which is outside of the weeds of it, is when I'm hanging out in Canada, half the people I talk to are so excited for me to come down here. And they're all like ju they're, you know, they were support of the truckers, right? Like this was not, like, this was not some, it's not some fringe thing in Canada. Maybe the people that actually got in their truck and drove there and Right. Camped out there, maybe that was a little bit more of a, you know, dedicated protester than the average citizen. But there's, you know, it's just like here, you know, you got people, fuck Joe Bidet,

3 (1h 19m 33s):
Fuck Trudeau. They chanting

4 (1h 19m 35s):
It UFC, you know, you know what? You would probably be amazed to see, I don't know if this is so common in Canada that we just don't even really, I don't even think to mention it, driving around everywhere in the country, in the city, everywhere people pick up trucks. Fuck Trudeau flags. Yeah. It says fuck Trudeau, black flag, white letters Canada flag on it. People are mad. And so it's not just like everybody in Canada is just down with it. Now enough people are down with it that he got elected, but he might not get elected the next time. And then, and then that'll be just like

3 (1h 20m 16s):
It is down here. I hope he doesn't might

4 (1h 20m 17s):
Just be like it is down here

3 (1h 20m 18s):
If he gets elected again, you guys are gluttons for punishment. Yeah. It

4 (1h 20m 21s):
Could be, it could be the same as here. Bidet could get elected again. Trump could get elected. It's sort of like, this is, I was, I was thinking the other day, I'm almost kinda wondering, this is obviously a stupid idea, but I'm, I'm wondering like maybe wouldn't it me almost be better if we just got rid of the elections and just let, let the conservatives run it for four years and then just automatically the liberals run it four years. I I can pick a whole a million holes and why that wouldn't work, but, and just let it go back and forth and then people can just be like, okay, let's just all get along. Let them have four years at running the country, do what they do. Let the other side run for four years. It's kind of a pendulum that goes back and forth anyways. And then we can kind of get back to, you know, just all getting along and

3 (1h 21m 2s):
Well if, even if that did happen, the same problem would take place. And it's that the people that are embedded, that are running the government, the real people behind the curtain, they're always there. Yeah. They don't get elected. They're always there. And those are the people that are actually running the government, which, so it would be the same horse shit that we're dealing with now every four years. Some new spokesperson comes in play and they do a bunch of shit that pisses off half the country. And at the, the the same thing behind the scenes, the same people are running things.

4 (1h 21m 30s):
Yeah. It's so frustrating. and I got to the point where I started to kinda just try to disconnect from the, from the conversation. Which sounds, sometimes I feel bad about it because you know, you want to have I do too. You wanna have a social, you know, contribution to

3 (1h 21m 48s):
Awareness.

4 (1h 21m 49s):
Yeah. But then you go, man, I just don't feel like talking about the same thing over and over again,

3 (1h 21m 53s):
Over and over and over and over and over

4 (1h 21m 54s):
Again. It's like, yeah. But

3 (1h 21m 56s):
What I was gonna say though is that, you know, like the whole system is set up so that one person can't be in control for too long. That's the whole idea about term limits. You got four years and then you get elected again. You get another four years and then you're fucking done.

4 (1h 22m 18s):
I

3 (1h 22m 18s):
Don't this, I'm just saying this, this is not something that I like fully support, but there's something to be said for someone staying in there for a long time and getting it right if they're good at it. Yeah. Right. Yeah. I mean if I was it backfires all in any other job, it would backfire with power and control. The problem is, we are terrified of having someone like Putin Yeah. Who's in, in control of Russia for decades, right? Yeah, for sure. But if you had someone who was good at the job, you would want them to stay on the job. Like if you had the best CEO of your company, you're making record money and everything's doing great and a products incredible. Yeah. You'd wanna keep that guy's a CEO. He's obviously killing it when Steve Jobs was running Apple.

3 (1h 22m 58s):
He's killing it. Yeah. You don't wanna remove him as a CEO EO because

4 (1h 23m 1s):
He not, you know, you know how long it takes to build anything. Right? Right.

3 (1h 23m 4s):
And how long it takes to get good at, at your

4 (1h 23m 5s):
Job to

3 (1h 23m 6s):
Build anything. Right. And to figure out who are the right people, who's, who's back Stabby, who's, you know, who's fucking, who's, you know, what, what are the issues? Who's trying to climb the political ladder? And they're just thinking about themselves. Only their sociopaths figure it out. It takes a long time to fucking work your cabin. Now work. If you had a, a president that was a young president that gets in at like 38, 40 years old. Right. And 20 years of running the country correctly, that's what most of these dictatorships have. Yeah. As a benefit. Yeah. That's horrible for the people. But at the benefit of having one guy run things Yeah. And just keep it locked up and this is the right way to do it.

3 (1h 23m 46s):
We've been doing it this way forever. This is correct.

4 (1h 23m 50s):
Yeah. It's interesting that, yeah, you got a couple,

3 (1h 23m 53s):
The most important job ever in a new guy gets it or a new woman. Right. Ever yet. But someday, every four years. Yeah. That's crazy.

4 (1h 23m 60s):
And, and, and often trying to undo everything that was done the four years before. Yeah. So that's what term limits, limits brought in. But then on the flip side, you know, we don't have term limits limits in Canada. And Trudeau's gonna be there for, you know, if you're, if you're not a fan of Trudeau, you go, oh, I wish we had term limits. You know, 'cause 'cause he's been there overt over eight years now. Right. So, and Right. But he might,

3 (1h 24m 18s):
That's

4 (1h 24m 18s):
'cause he'd getting elected.

3 (1h 24m 19s):
He voted out. He might, yeah. He might be getting voted out. It seems like the Canadians are leaning towards getting rid of him. Is that correct?

4 (1h 24m 26s):
You know, it's one of those things where it's, it's it's, it's kind of feels like it's almost like 50 50 ultimately. But who knows? I I think it definitely feels like it could happen. Who

3 (1h 24m 36s):
Doesn't want to get rid of 'em? Who are those people?

4 (1h 24m 40s):
A lot of it's regional. It's, it's, I guess it's ex you know what you, I I I, I keep, I kind of, if we, I knew if we were gonna talk about this, I wanted to kind of, sort of make this point. 'cause I, again, I want Americans to understand what Canada is. It's exactly like here it's the same people that, the same type of people that like bidet are the people that like Trudeau, like the people in Canada that vote for Trudeau are the exact same people that, that they like bidet too. Right. There's nobody in Canada that likes Tr Trudeau that also likes Trump. There's also nobody in Canada that likes Per Pier pev that likes bidet. It's exactly the same. It's the same division. It's this, even on social media, it's the same. Mm. Like you go on social media, you go on TikTok, you got angry conservatives in Canada saying fuck Trudeau.

4 (1h 25m 24s):
And you know, we're turning into a communist country and all of this stuff like completely, completely the exact same thing as here. So, so it's, it's just, it's just, if I was, I'm not here like try to be a spokesperson for Canada or anything, but that would, they would not want that. Well

3 (1h 25m 42s):
I think that's what scares us the most about Canada is that Canada is so similar to the United States, but we're seeing your rights erode. There's also weird bills that keep getting passed. You know, the C 16 bill, the, you know, mandatory pronouns, mandatory use of someone's pronouns. And then there was the, the fact that you guys don't really have freedom of speech. Speech, but you have hate laws. You have hate speech laws. Yeah. And then you also have some weird shit going on with Canada trying to regulate the internet. Yeah. And with the government trying to regulate podcasts and make podcasts subject to their,

4 (1h 26m 19s):
They did try. They, the, the, I I, I did a little research on this in case it came up. They, they tried and they haven't, they haven't put into effect that regulation of the internet of as far as regulating disinformation. That has not been put in effect. And Trudeau actually said he would not put in, put that into effect. It was a, you know, sort of a subset of, you know, it's, it's sort of like, you know, you've got your extreme left wing here and then you have cooler heads. And they did not actually put that into effect.

3 (1h 26m 55s):
Is it still on the table?

4 (1h 26m 57s):
He, Trudeau has said that he would never put that into effect.

3 (1h 26m 60s):
Well, I think he's saying that now because he's knows

4 (1h 27m 2s):
Fucked. And, and so the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Okay. That's kind of like our constitution, I guess. They, they say we have freedom, expression, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly. So, so we do have, that's

3 (1h 27m 13s):
The fact that you have elements of your government that would even consider that.

4 (1h 27m 17s):
Yeah. but it's like here. That's terrifying. but it, it's like, it's like, here

3 (1h 27m 19s):
It

4 (1h 27m 19s):
Is. It's like here. And that's, that's, it's the same exact kind. It's just the same. It's the same thing. Like if you don't agree with it, then it's the same thing as, you know, you know, fuck Joe Bidet. You know, it's the same thing. Fuck. Ruto, same thing. So, and so, you know, 'cause because it's, it's, it's interesting. Like I, I just really want, you know, Americans who are, you know, just not have never been to Canada. Right. To understand that. Like, there's a lot

3 (1h 27m 40s):
Are you working for the Canadian ministry of,

4 (1h 27m 44s):
I would consider it somewhere.

3 (1h 27m 45s):
Terrorism and travel. You

4 (1h 27m 46s):
Know what I was thinking about? Like in Canada, You don't have to be born in Canada to run for Prime Minister. You could run for Prime Minister of Canada and come up and, and, and solve all this stuff. I mean you have to live up there. But it's a nice place. You come on, come on up to Canada. You could, you would win too. That's the thing. That would be amazing. You'd be, you, you would win. And you could just imagine

3 (1h 28m 11s):
If I became Prime Minister of Canada.

4 (1h 28m 12s):
Can you imagine? I was just thinking,

3 (1h 28m 14s):
Do you think it's crazy Donald Trump being president of the United States? That would be next craziest thing.

4 (1h 28m 19s):
That would be the next craziest thing.

3 (1h 28m 21s):
More crazy. Almost more crazy. Because at least he was like hinting about running for president forever. Yeah. Have I just on a whim

4 (1h 28m 28s):
Just decided to go run for the Prime Minister of Canada and win. 'cause you would, you would win because you have so many fans up there. You really do. And that's, that's why I want, that's so

3 (1h 28m 37s):
Scary.

4 (1h 28m 38s):
That

3 (1h 28m 38s):
Is and so unqualified to run a country. Well

4 (1h 28m 42s):
I mean you've got a lot of, you know, valid concerns and you feel strongly about things. I think you should run. I would support you. I think that would be amazing.

3 (1h 28m 54s):
I wanna roll up to the world economic forum high on mushrooms.

4 (1h 28m 60s):
See, in Canada, by the way, mushrooms are basically legal in Canada now. Weed is, well, here's the something that Trudeau, again, not, not he did legalize weed. That is one thing that he did do. So

3 (1h 29m 8s):
Congratulations. Did one good thing. It's just he's a weasel. That's the problem. He's what I don't like in leaders, this fake bullshit fucking nonsensical gaslighting. I just, that shit drives me nuts. It's so creepy. And then using all the inclusive terms to make it seem like everybody else is a piece of shit. And you're an amazing human being, and you're on the right side of progressive movement. Like it's all just a bullshit act to stay in power. Yep. And when you see politicians do it, you know, they just fucking wet their finger and try to figure out which way the wind's blowing and say those things and then act in the interest of whatever money got them into that position in the first place.

3 (1h 29m 50s):
Yeah. Whatever machine is behind them, whatever support they get, that's, that's all they're doing. And those types of politicians, that's not the only kind you can have. You know,

4 (1h 30m 3s):
It's kind of like, yeah.

3 (1h 30m 5s):
It's, you can have real leaders. They, they do exist.

4 (1h 30m 8s):
It's such a huge sort of thing to wrap your head around. You know, it's, it's capitalism, it's money, it controls everything. It's I mean. I kind of feel just leaving Los Angeles, leaving Hollywood Right. Kind of has a, has sort of reset a little bit of Oh yeah. My, you know, like, you know, you know this more than anybody else. of course. But, you know, 'cause we even talked about this, whatever it was 20 years ago in my podcast, about how, you know, you can democratize media with podcasting and get rid of all this money Controlling everything. Yeah. Controlling. And so it's sort of a, you know, a micro, micro sort of, or it's a similar thing to just politics in general.

4 (1h 30m 49s):
You know, money comes in, controls everything. It can be so frustrating, especially now when you can see that, you know, you don't necessarily have to play that game anymore. So Yeah. It, well,

3 (1h 31m 1s):
It's also the hive mind of Hollywood. You're leaving, there's a thing that happens in that town, in that area where the, the people that think outside of the norm say it in like whispered hushed tones. There's a, a certain ideology that's attached to that city. And it's not logical. It's a kooky, wacky, completely insulated left wing view of the world. And they enforce it with an iron fist. And if you're not on that team, you don't get booked for things. You don't get picked for things. If you're someone who has conservative leanings or you talk about there's projects you're never gonna get, you're never gonna be involved with.

3 (1h 31m 45s):
The people will, they'll malign you and without knowing you at all, be openly prejudiced about you. And so no one does it. So everyone who goes over there, who's just like, desperately trying to make it, they're desperately trying to get in movies, they're desperately trying to get a recording deal, whatever it is they're desperately trying to do, the last thing they want to do is do something and talk about something that's gonna politically get them at odds with the people that run the studios. So no one does, everybody just follows the same sort of wacky ideology that these people take from the universities. They go straight into working as a PA and straight into working for executives and producers.

3 (1h 32m 31s):
And all of those people are indoctrinated. They're all in this wild ass cult of weirdness. And then you have people that move there to try to make it. And these people are just always going on auditions. So they're always like, please choose me. Please choose me. And now they didn't choose me. And so you're trying to be friends, the people who choose people, you're trying to get them into parties, trying to introduce 'em to other people. You're trying to be around other famous people getting

4 (1h 32m 53s):
Anxiety. This

3 (1h 32m 55s):
Person's been chosen, I gotta be around the chosen person. We go to the chosen person's party, maybe we can get chosen. And they, so you get this like overwhelming anxiety that fills the fucking city. Yeah. And then now you have tiktoks and influencers and all these people that are just trying to do anything to get famous. Yeah. And that the reality stars and all that started it all off and the fucking Real Housewives and all that wacky shit. You get away from that. You're like, oh, there's real people out there. There's real people. That's a storm of anxiety. Absolutely. It just a hurricane of confusion. Zoloft and fucking whuh. And everyone's losing their mind and everyone's in therapy and everyone's fucking nuts and everyone's trans, it's out of touch.

3 (1h 33m 36s):
Yeah. It's just a crazed cult.

4 (1h 33m 39s):
Yeah. It's like, you know, you start out as a standup comedian and you are trying to, you know, poke holes in the, you know, the absurdity of the world and you're saying things that are not being said on stage. And then, you know, as you know, you all of a sudden get brought into, and I'm sort of saying the, the every standup comedian, every outlier, every person that's a, doing something different, a punk rocker, skateboarder, you know, my goofy show was so out, out there when I was making it and I was making it. I was rebelling against, you know, in Canada, in my little little public access show.

4 (1h 34m 20s):
I was kind of trying to rebel against what obviously seems like a formulaic, mainstream way of thinking to create art. Right. And then you move to Los Angeles. 'cause well, a show we got on MTVI end up moving to Los Angeles. Now you're, I'm talking about myself now. You're in the trance all of a sudden being asked to go on, you know, the show, the Tonight Show, Saturday Night Live, and you're on these shows and, you know, I was sort of, sort of a bit of a naive, you know, moron basically, you know, like in, in a purposefully. So I would go on these shows, try to go nuts, right. And try to do something crazy and just try to sort of d sort of almost disrupt the whole format of it, right.

4 (1h 35m 3s):
In those first couple of years as a naive person who didn't understand how Hollywood worked. and I was just, I, you know, I went on, I had a similar thing to our last appearance here on Jay Leno. I went on Jay Leno when I had a film coming out. I went Jay Leno. And, and we, I came up with this bit, let me roll the, the bar. They had a, you know, remember they had the bar cart, the J bar. I'll roll it out on stage during the show and then I'll do a shot of Yagger with, with Jay. You know, Jay doesn't, this is a crazy story. I probably told you this before, but I do a shot of Yagger with, with, with Jay, and Jay doesn't drink. So he said, okay, well I'll throw it over my shoulder. Right? So we go there and I'm with my, my buddy who's, you know, you, you know, I was a buddy who like pushes you further into the darkness, right?

4 (1h 35m 47s):
Like, you know, like, you know, you, you, you got, you got a bad idea and he pushes you further and makes it even worse. Use the force. Yeah. So we're in the green room getting ready. I'm in the green room with my buddy getting ready to go on the show and, and he goes, do a shot now before you go on. I'm, I go, okay. So I do a shot now before I go on. Right. Getting ready to go on the, the bit's all approved with a Tonight Show. You know, it's, it's a gag. They know I'm gonna do in real gagger Right. but it wasn't planned that I would do a shot before I go on. And he goes, do another shot before you go on two shots. Two shots do another one. So now I walk out, I'm three shots in before I even show even starts. Oh

3 (1h 36m 18s):
Boy, you're hammered.

4 (1h 36m 20s):
Well pretty quickly then. Yeah. And then I got out there and I did a shot and the audience goes crazy and cheers. Right. And so then I do another shot. And so I ended up doing like, oh, way too many shots. and it kind of ended up very similarly to our last, our last conversation here. And, and it was, it was actually pretty hilarious. It was one of those things where, you know, it, it did get outta control, you know, the next day the, there was a, the, the New York Post it had my picture and it said dead drunk. You know, it was just like one of those, and, and you know, Jay called me at home the next day. Are you okay man? You didn really kinda went, but then, you know, then that was sort of a beginning of me realizing, oh, you know, you can't,

3 (1h 37m 2s):
Why Tom Green went on Leno and deliberately got drunk. Yeah.

4 (1h 37m 7s):
And it, and you know, in hindsight I go, well that was, you know, kind of the outrageous kind of young version of me that I was doing on the show that made perfect sense to do that for a gag. But then, you know, the naive kid in me didn't understand, well, you know, a lot of people in Hollywood did not understand that. And then got mad and the movie studio people got

3 (1h 37m 31s):
Mad at you.

4 (1h 37m 32s):
Well, like the movie studio I was on promoting a movie, and they were like, oh, we don't want you to go anymore talk shows for the movie. I'm like, I was like, well, what I was, it was a joke. I was obviously, it was a joke. And they're, they're not interpreting it as a joke. They're interpreting it as, as me being kind of outta control. Outta control. Which, yeah, exactly. but it was a, it was a, a manufactured out of control. I was outta control. but it was planned, it was planned confusion. Right. So, but that kind of subtlety didn't really, didn't really kind of pass the, the smell test. So, so then you start to go, oh, geez, I better tone it down a little bit. You know, better be better, better tone it down a little bit because this, and, and you sort of end up falling into that feeling where all of a sudden you're, like you said, going to an audition or driving out to a meeting and trying to, trying to,

3 (1h 38m 17s):
Or just being a person that you're not

4 (1h 38m 18s):
Yeah, exactly. Trying to, like,

3 (1h 38m 19s):
If you're hosting a late night talk show Yeah. And all of a sudden you're this sort of wearing a tie. Yeah. This odd button down and

4 (1h 38m 27s):
Trying to Yeah. Make something that they like and fit into their mold and, you know, try to get your own little creative shots off within that mold, but no longer are you actually being purely yourself. Right, right. And, and you can't, and, and so it's not even possible then, you know, you end up living there for 20 years, end up living there for 20 years, and it becomes normal pretty quickly. Right. And then, and then you sort of slowly forget, oh, you know, oh, this is just the way it works, I guess now. And then eventually, you know, one day you go, I'm getting outta here. and I, I gotta say, you know, when you, when you moved here, it was a bit of a, a, a light bulb.

4 (1h 39m 13s):
I think for me too. It was inspiring for me because I, I, I sort of realized, oh, look at that, Joe's leaving. You know? 'cause you, you know, you were always at the comedy store, all the clubs. It was a scene in LA and you're thinking, wow. Like, Joe Joe's just gonna go do it on his own and just turn his back on this whole infrastructure here. And I was like, yeah, you can do that. You don't have to be here. And, and it was really inspiring. And, you know, and it inspired a lot of people. And, and, and I can tell you again, it's now living in the, the woods not far from where I grew up.

4 (1h 39m 54s):
We had a cottage when I was a kid, pretty close to where I grew up. They've got these birds there called whipper wills. Right. Whipper will, whipper will they make this sound? They're really unique sounding bird. Right. Hank Williams sings about him. And, and I grew up as a kid here in those, in the woods at night, you know, just to dusk. You hear them. And now, like, when I, I'm going to bed, I hear those and I'm going like, oh, I feel like, like the sounds of my childhood around like, you're enriched and the smells of my childhood and the, even the things, you know, the mosquitoes, the, the horse flies. And you're like, even the, the, the, the, you know, the, the, the, the, the large mouth mouth bass in the, in the lake and the, you know, the, the red wing blackbirds and all those sounds and smells and everything, and you feel like yourself again.

4 (1h 40m 38s):
And it's like, and there was, there was, you know, it was for, for for 20 years. I'd, I'd be like driving up Laurel Canyon, looking at palm trees and I and, and for 20 years, and even after 20 years living in the same house, I never felt like I was actually at home. I felt like I was off on some business trip trying to, and I, I remember saying, you know, even just, even after living there 15, 20 years, like, what the hell am I doing in Los Angeles? This is crazy. What? This is a weird place. You know, it's like a weird place. And you know, you feel almost like you have to be there now. Everything's changed. The internet, I think. and I think Covid did that for a lot of people too.

4 (1h 41m 19s):
Because all of a sudden everybody's locked in their house and you're dealing with people and these Zoom calls and the Internet's changed. You don't have to be anywhere anymore. We realize we can be wherever we want. You know, you took your entire organization away and it's bigger than ever. And light bulbs start going off. And you're like, wow. You know what? That's, that's really cool. I'm gonna go home.

3 (1h 41m 43s):
Well, you know, when we were living in la you're, you're always thinking of yourself as someone who wants to work with the system. You're always thinking of that. Always I mean. I was on television shows. I did all that stuff. Did a couple of movies. You're always working with the system. Yep. So no matter what you do, you're working with, even when you put out specials, you're putting out specials. You, you're meeting with these people. You meet, you're working with the system, and you start to think that that's what you do. That's the business that you're, but it's not. Yeah. What you do is what you do. That's what you do. What you do is what you do. And you could do what you do wherever you want to do it. Yeah. Especially once you get good enough out of it that you have an audience and like, you're supposed to take a chance.

3 (1h 42m 27s):
You're not supposed to like, keep living your life by these like Bazar tyrants and their rules and regulations about the way and the way they behave and the way they fucking, the, the, it's so ridiculous. It's such a Bazar place to be. And when you realize that you don't need that anymore. And comedians today realize they don't need that anymore. All they need is a TikTok account or a, a YouTube account, an Instagram account, a Twitter account, and some good content. And if you get on podcasts, people will check you out. They'll try you out. And there's a gigantic organic network of comedians. We're all friends with each other and we all get on each other's podcasts and we all trust each other.

3 (1h 43m 8s):
Like, if I tell you, this guy's really funny, go see him. Like, I'm telling you the truth, I'm not. I'm, I would not ever lie. And I wouldn't have them on if I didn't think they were funny. If I didn't like them, they didn't, weren't nice people. I'm not interested. Yeah. So there's this beautiful organic thing, and that's the real network now. That's the real network. It's an organic network. It's, there's no contracts. Every comic that I know that has contracts with other comics, they start doing things together. It always goes South. I mean, maybe it can not go south once or twice. I mean maybe there's some great people that are figured out I mean Tom seems like he's figured out how to do it with your mom's house. But that's like almost it, everybody else that I know that gets involved with deals ands, like, just fucking just help each other.

3 (1h 43m 51s):
Yeah. Just help each other organically.

4 (1h 43m 54s):
That was what I really loved about hanging at the mothership the last two nights, is the energy there is different. Like for a com, for the comedy club, just in the, in the green room. Like I mean, I, it was, you felt it. You can tell that you've created a energy there that is supportive. Right. All the comics are just hanging out in the green room, smoking cigarettes and everyone's talking and just, you know, it's super chill and, and I, you know, I did, you know, sometimes find that, you know, it wasn't always like that. You know, when you're at a comedy club, you know, and other people, comedians are sometimes a little more, feel a little more competitive with each other. And there's a little bit more

3 (1h 44m 32s):
Of it. It's so stupid. It's so stupid. The, the, any competition that you have with other comedians is inspiration. That's all you should look at it. You should, if someone's doing really well and you, you're like, wow, I wish I was doing that. Well, great. That's inspiration to work harder. That's inspiration to go write more, do more sets, re reevaluate your material, go over it better. Do something, write more. Have some life experiences that you could translate into your act like skill. Work harder. Yeah. It's like that. It's just should, you should just be inspired. And if that person's a good person, you should be happy for them. And that's what we can all do. This idea that we're all in competition with each other is just stupid. It's not good for anybody.

4 (1h 45m 11s):
I was stoked to get to see your work in progress, your new hour that you're working on. That was incredible. Thank you. Yeah, that was really fun. You got such a great place to watch the show there. I. mean, First of all Fat Man Room, little Fatman little boy. Awesome. I mean, I just love the, the way you've set up for the comics where you can go out and sit on that balcony up there and just watch the show, show. The balcony is very nice. Yeah. and it was just really amazing to watch you working out your new, your new, your new shit. It's thank fucking Awesome. and I, I enjoyed our conversation because I've, I've, I've watched a lot of your interviews with, with comedians here and I saw your interview with Louis and you were talking about writing and I saw your interview with Bill Burr.

4 (1h 45m 53s):
You're talking about writing and you know, there's sort of this thing where a lot of comics don't write. And we were talking about this a little bit the other day. But yeah, I love the process of hearing how the process works for, for you. Because I kind of do a mixture of things too. I, I I, I like to, I like to go set a computer and type stuff up and then, but it's always, I've always found it hard to, like, this is a question I kind of have for you. 'cause when, when you go right, you work it out on stage and you know, you're, you got your idea, you got your premise, you got your punchlines, you got your, you know, your bit and you're working it on stage. And then I, I I, I found it really inspiring actually. 'cause First of all, I love, I love, I love the way it works with standup.

4 (1h 46m 36s):
Like you, when you showed up at the, at the green room, you're about to go on stage and you're like focused, you know, you're like focused and you're going through your notes and you're focused. And I'm like, you know, I can tell you're focused. Right? Then you go out, you kill it. You, you come back in and you see the ah, you know, that, that adrenaline rush. And then we're just, you know, and then we're, everyone's just, you're just relaxed and it's just that, that release. Right? Yeah. And then we were just talking about writing and you, you said you're gonna go home and actually I know. Yeah. I dunno if you want people to know this is too far into the behind the curtain or whatever. No,

3 (1h 47m 9s):
It's

4 (1h 47m 9s):
Okay. You, you gotta go home and write after. I just think that's so cool. You know, while it's fresh, you go home and actually type, type up some stuff

3 (1h 47m 14s):
And write it. That's what I've been doing some of my best writing. Yeah. There's like a two hour window that I have where I'm still jazzed from being on stage. Right,

4 (1h 47m 20s):
Right,

3 (1h 47m 21s):
Right. And you're, you're still kind of thinking in that mindset. Yeah. You, you gotta just kind of, and don't let yourself relax too much. Like kind of stay in that mindset. Right. And then, you know, as long as I'm not up too late where I get tired, then I'm forcing it, you know? So, but if I can get home at a reasonable time and I've got a lot of energy, I get my best writing in, I get some of my best ideas because I'm already thinking like comedy. Yeah. You

4 (1h 47m 45s):
Know, you just had a Yeah, you set it, you have the exact words Yeah. Rhythm in your head. And that's, that I thought was a bit of a, a light bulb for me. I, I, that's inspiring. 'cause you know, I I I, I often find it's like, you know, when you write something down, you have, or, or when you do the set and you maybe write it down after, and then you, you know, don't go get to writing it and then you'd never remember what the rhythm was later. Yeah. Like, what the hell was it? I said again, God was so I know, it was way funnier than what I'm writing right now. You know? Right. So that's, that's

3 (1h 48m 15s):
Why recordings are so important. Yeah. Yeah. Just put your phone on the little, you know, voice recording thing, just, just to get a reference. Yeah.

4 (1h 48m 22s):
I was, I was talking to, you know, Louis CK had a conversation with him about this. And it was pretty interesting because I've kind of, you know, I like to drink, but I, I kind of quit. I I really have cut back drinking in the last, I, you know, I quit drinking like three days ago. No, I, no, but standup, you know, I, you know, I I I, I wasn't doing standup when I was doing my TV show. I'd done it when I was a kid. I stopped. I did my TV show started again, I know, 13, 14 years ago, was drinking a lot. Like, I like to drink, like everybody likes to drink and I go on the road.

4 (1h 49m 4s):
and I started realizing, man, like even if I go out drinking Friday night after the show, my Saturday night shows aren't as good as they could have been. 'cause I'm kind of like carrying a little bit of alcohol around him. I, from the night before I, I over, I quickly realized, you know, in the beginning was like, I'll have a beer on stage. Right. Then I, then I go, oh, I better not have a beer on stage. I'll wait till after the show to have a drink. So then after the show, Friday night, you know, you know, on the road it's fun, you know, you're in Cleveland, let's go, let's party. We're in Cleveland, you know, so, you know, you have have a few too many drinks after the show Friday night and Of course I was younger too. I was, you know, my thirties. So you can handle it a little more too than when you're 52. So, but then every year that went by I was like, oh, those Saturday night shows are getting a little harder to get through, you know, and it's just one too many Saturdays just lying in my hotel room, just waiting for the show to start hung over going, oh my God.

4 (1h 49m 55s):
And then gone, and then dreading and being on stage. So then I, then I decided I was gonna quit drinking when I'm doing standup. Like, so I'm not drinking this weekend, you know, until maybe Sunday night. You know, I mean I'll have a drink Sunday night, maybe even Saturday night. I could do a hungover show Sunday.

3 (1h 50m 13s):
But

4 (1h 50m 14s):
Gotta have a little fun. Listen,

3 (1h 50m 16s):
I got a solution for you IV drips.

4 (1h 50m 18s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 50m 19s):
Oh, it's game changer. So I can

4 (1h 50m 21s):
Keep drinking. You bring that right on stage with you. The No, I'm just getting, you don't bring the idea on stage

3 (1h 50m 24s):
The next day. Yeah, yeah. Selling juice the next day you get a, a high dose vitamin iv.

4 (1h 50m 31s):
Well, the thing that I've been enjoying about kind of scheduling it, where it's like, I don't drink for a couple of days before, you know, a week, a weekend like this when doing five shows is like, I find, and this is what I was talking about with Louie about where I had a, you know, we're not close friends, but I had an opportunity to have a conversation with him about this once. and it was pretty cool. 'cause the way his mind thinks is, is, is so, you know, analytical about this type of specific, everything comedy. Right. and I was telling him, I was saying, you know, I, I stopped drinking before I go on stage because, you know, I feel like there was this period where I didn't have a drink for a couple weeks. And when I was doing crowd work, I was just coming up with stuff that I would never, you know, you know, when you have a great set of crowd work and you get out and I came up with this intricate story that I told, and it was clear my mind was operating in a different level than it would've been had.

4 (1h 51m 22s):
I just had a few beers the night before even. Right. And, and then he said something I'd never really even occurred to me before, which is, you know, when you're working on a set, you know, if you, if you have like a little bit of booze in your system, even from the night before and you're up there working on a set, you don't remember the stuff that happened on stage as well either. So then when you go home, you don't really even recall. You know, and that's the biggest, you know, the big part of repetition, getting up and doing these sets over and over again and you remember everything and build on it and build on it. And if you're not retaining that information. Right. So, so I'm, I'm, I'm really laying off the sauce. and I was actually kind of, I was excited to, to hear that, that we were gonna do this show on the day of, of, of, of, of my, I'm doing two shows tonight at the Mothership.

4 (1h 52m 7s):
Right. With Fatman. and I was kind of excited 'cause I knew I wasn't going to drink on this show.

3 (1h 52m 11s):
So you knew you weren't gonna repeat. Yeah,

4 (1h 52m 13s):
I knew I was not. I was going, I'm not gonna do it. I did last time and so I kind of

3 (1h 52m 16s):
Came. I'm not trying to encourage you to drink. Yeah. But I know, I'm trying to encourage you that if you do Yeah. Wind up drinking too much, you feel hung over. You don't have to just tolerate that.

4 (1h 52m 23s):
No, I like that too.

3 (1h 52m 24s):
Yeah. Get, get an IV drip. There's an

4 (1h 52m 26s):
IV drip, huh?

3 (1h 52m 27s):
Yeah. If you're in town, I'll connect you to the lady that does that.

4 (1h 52m 29s):
That just seems like such an extreme. It's like, you know, you're drinking too much. I, you know, you're drinking too much when you're like at a, you're in a hospital bed with an IV

3 (1h 52m 38s):
Drip, you know, you're being smart about your partying. Yeah, yeah. Or you're not in a hospital bed. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Dude's just sitting down takes 20 minutes.

4 (1h 52m 46s):
The reason I told you about the reason why I, I wanted to come down here sooner and just kind of come check out and hang at the club. You know, not, I was, I was super stoked that I'm actually getting to headline the club this weekend. That was even more than I was expecting. I was just wanted to come down to see you and, and congratulate you on the club. And, and the reason it's taken me so long is I had a fucked up thing that happened after I moved to the farm, basically immediately after I moved to the farm. And everything was going great. I was, I had a major injury that I told you about. Yeah. I didn't get into too much detail about it, but I had a major injury in Costa Rica. I would, I, I went down there for a vacation and there was this, you know, a big bonfire on the beach and everyone was having fun.

4 (1h 53m 35s):
I went to bed in the hotel. I wake up, I decide to go back to the bonfire a few hours later. It's like two in the morning. At this point, the fire has gotten a lot smaller. I pick up a piece of drift wood off this beach and this remote beach. Right. I go up to throw the driftwood on the fire. And the reason the fire had gotten smaller is the people that had been at the fire put out the fire by burying it in sand. And they buried this huge bonfire that was about the size of this room in sand. And so now there was just a little fire with sand covering hot coals about four feet leading up to it. And I'm walking up to the thing, you know, barefoot right in, in, in, in, you know, in, in a, you know, in bathing suit and a t-shirt with a piece of driftwood.

4 (1h 54m 18s):
And my foot goes into the sand, into these hot coals. Immediate realization. I fall back. So if I'd fallen forward, I mean my face would be burnt. I, I I, I ended up immediately realizing what had happened. Third degree burns on both feet, the top and bottom of my right foot. And the strangely, the top of my left foot, not the bottom, thankfully. And the nerves were completely burned off my feet. So after the initial shock of it, I wasn't in pain, which was the weirdest thing. and I looked down and there's a couple people came to my sort of assistance and were putting water on it, not feeling anything, you know, I'll get graphic 'cause it's crazy, but the skin is just falling off my feet.

4 (1h 55m 10s):
Oh my God. I get help back to my room. I am not wanting this to be, you know, it's the first day I got there, I'm, oh, this really ruined my vacation. You know, I'm, I'm not feeling pain because the burns, the nerves are gone. So I'm literally like trying to clean it up with like some nail clippers. Chop in the little, oh my god. Bits of burn flesh off. And Do you have photos? I do. Yeah. Of this? Yeah. Like when it looked like that. Not online. I've So No. On your phone. I have not even, I never, I need to see, I need to see. I haven't, that sounds insane. I haven't even talked about it online. I didn't this first. I've talked about it online.

3 (1h 55m 47s):
Yeah. I never knew that you were

4 (1h 55m 48s):
Injured. I didn't, I didn't wanna talk about it. I just didn't. I, it was crazy. I, I ended up spending two weeks in the hospital in Costa Rica and then was medevaced on an air ambulance with Charlie.

3 (1h 56m 6s):
Whoa. Charlie. Charlie, you were there for the whole

4 (1h 56m 8s):
Ride. Charlie. Yeah. With Charlie. Yeah. And did

3 (1h 56m 10s):
The nurses take Charlie to go potty?

4 (1h 56m 12s):
So I had some friends who came down who were coming down anyways. And they, they took Charlie.

3 (1h 56m 17s):
Oh, Charlie, they,

4 (1h 56m 19s):
They looked after Charlie for two weeks while I, so I got, I got driven to the San Jose hospital. Hi Charlie.

3 (1h 56m 28s):
What's

4 (1h 56m 28s):
Up? Yeah. And she was, she was worried.

3 (1h 56m 31s):
She's adorable man. Yeah. She's such a sweet dog. Yeah. I know the people that are seeing her out now. Like, oh, she's kind of freaked out. But normally she's not freaked out at

4 (1h 56m 39s):
All. Oh yeah. Yeah. She's

3 (1h 56m 40s):
Super sweet. She runs up to everybody and wagging her tail. Yeah. Super friendly.

4 (1h 56m 46s):
It's last. Yeah. So anyways, I got got to this hospital, the, the, the, there's a surgeon from Columbia who worked there, A great hospital thankfully came out. He said, looked at my foot, said We're taking you in immediately into surgery. Oh my God. And they did skin grafts off my leg. And they took skin grafts like the size of a football off my right leg and stapled 60 staples to staple the skin into my foot. And then I come up out of surgery and the doctor says to me, which I think he was trying to make me feel better, but he said, well, the good news is you'll probably be able to live a normal life.

3 (1h 57m 25s):
He

4 (1h 57m 26s):
Says to me, it's the first thing he says to me, oh my God. And I'm, you know, I can't move. I had a morphine going into my back, couldn't feel anything below my waist. I thought I was paralyzed. He told me I would be, you wouldn't be able to feel anything below my waist while this, while I came out of it. And then I'd spend two weeks in a hospital bed and I was not able to get outta the hospital bed for two weeks. This is debatably too much information. But it's interesting. You get, you get very constipated from all the medicine that's going into you. And you end up not being able to, you know, go to the bathroom for about a week, but then you ultimately have to go and you can't get outta bed because your foot has to remain elevated.

4 (1h 58m 8s):
Oh

3 (1h 58m 8s):
Boy. This is where you gotta drop a log in a bucket.

4 (1h 58m 10s):
You gotta drop a log in a diaper.

3 (1h 58m 13s):
Oh Jesus. And then someone's gotta clean your butt.

4 (1h 58m 16s):
And then these Costa Rica nurses come in, oh boy. And clean your butt. Oh. and it was just a really interesting, oh god moment of clarity for me, where you realize you're humbled as a human being and you realize, oh, this is, this is, I've lost all ability to look after myself. And you just kind of end up having to just kind of go with it. and it was, you know, to my honest with, I still think about that sometimes. It wasn't the worst thing in the world. No, I'm just kidding. But you know, the, the, the, the, they were very nice. The nurses were very nice. Well it's very

3 (1h 58m 49s):
Sweet of them to take care of

4 (1h 58m 50s):
You like that.

3 (1h 58m 50s):
And, and, and so you can't put any weight on your foot. 'cause the bottom of your foot, is that skin graft as well or just the

4 (1h 58m 55s):
Top? For for, for the So then for the next. Yeah, exactly. and it was very delicate. The skin graft for the first

3 (1h 59m 1s):
No. Was the bottom skin grafted as well?

4 (1h 59m 2s):
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Really it's all around very, very,

3 (1h 59m 5s):
The bottom of your foot, like the sole of your foot was skin grafted. That's crazy. 'cause I would think like, how do they skin graft that? Right. So does your footprint come back in the same way? The ridges, the dermal ridges and everything?

4 (1h 59m 16s):
Yeah. but it's not perfect though. It's interesting. The, it was a World War II doctor who invented the way of taking these skin grafts. Actually they did it for burn victims in, in, in the war. And they invented a, some really, I don't know the word for it, but some tool that actually takes a micro thin layer of skin. So micro, I don't really have a scar on my leg anymore. It's very Oh wow. Yeah, it's amazing. It's a very, it's almost like a pap less than paper thin layers of skin. They take 'em off of strips like this and then they staple it into your foot to hold it on there. And, and then that's left on there for about, I, I think it was just about two weeks actually.

4 (1h 59m 58s):
And then at the end of the two weeks in Costa Rica, they re they, I had to go under three general anesthetic surgeries in Costa Rica in a central American hospital by myself by the way. I, I, my mom and was, you know, wanted to fly down. My dad wanted to fly down. I was like, no, you know what, I'm just sitting here like, you know, half out of it, you know, so just, I'll just, so I just spent two weeks in there and they'd go, there was a second surgery where they go in and they checked it. They had to go in and check it. And so I had to go under general just to like take the bandages off 'cause it's painful. And then the third general one was to go in and take the staples out and, and then medevac back to Toronto, to Sunnybrook Burn Center, Sunnybrook Hospital Burn Center, where I spent another 10 days.

4 (2h 0m 44s):
And then for the next essentially six months, Joe, I was, I would have to go to doctor three times a week to have my bandages changed because it's like, you know, oozing. And For six months. Yeah. Yeah. It was about three times a week for the first two months. and it was like twice a week. And then it was once a week. And, and they're also monitoring it for infection. Right. Because if you get an infection, then they have to amputate your foot. So it was basically six months of me just worried about losing my foot. You know, you're saying, am I gonna have, am I gonna have like a one testicle and one foot? Is this what's going on with me? So, so they didn't, they didn't have to amputate my foot fortunately. but it was pretty, pretty, pretty scary shit.

3 (2h 1m 25s):
Holy shit, dude.

4 (2h 1m 27s):
And anyways, and then, you know, and then it was kind of like limping for the next year. And then now I'm kind of still a little wobbly. But it's, it's, it's, it's pretty good. I'm, I'm, I'm just gonna, I, I actually found some photos of this and, and pulled them up. 'cause I thought you might ask when I told you about this Of course I'm gonna ask Now the thing about this is what's crazy is this is like, this is actually, this is like actually when it had healed, so I mean that's that, that's after it healed. This, this is, this is months. Months. This is maybe two months after I was back in Canada at this point. Wow. I have some better ones here.

4 (2h 2m 9s):
You know, here's, that's

8 (2h 2m 10s):
Horrible. Here's, that's, it's, see here's,

4 (2h 2m 15s):
This is sort of healing up, healing up this as my mom. My mom I thought healing up at the hospital. But yeah, it's

3 (2h 2m 22s):
Damn son, you got fucked up.

4 (2h 2m 24s):
Yeah. Yeah. But it's, you know, it could have been worse. Right? It could have been worse.

3 (2h 2m 29s):
So yeah, you're alive, you're here. Could

4 (2h 2m 32s):
Have been worse. And you get this, you get this sense of almost, it's almost like a sense of gratitude you get afterwards. 'cause you're like, I'm alive. I'm here. I still got my foot. And it's, it's so strange how that happens. 'cause it's happened to me twice now in my life. 'cause I had test tequila cancer when I was, when I was on MTV and I. That's why I stopped the show. and I go to the hospital. They roommate took my right testicle. I still got the left one. Everything's fine. But, and you go, you go from, there's this, there's this moment where you're like, in both occasions there's this moment where you're sort of traumatized by what's happening and angry about it.

4 (2h 3m 13s):
And then it sort of almost instantly flips. It must be some sort of human self preservation kind of thing that's built into our way our minds work where you're now grateful that it's not worse. You know, like I know, oh, it's healing. I still have my foot. This is a learning experience. You know, I'm not, I'm I'm not gonna do that Again.

3 (2h 3m 38s):
You think that's wired into people? I think the opposite. I don I think that's a learned skill. I think that's something that you, you recognize as an intelligent person. Like, you know what, I'm, I should be thankful for what I have all the time. And we all should. It's really hard to be, you get so accustomed to the way your life is that you, you can't imagine. Yeah. If you were like severely impaired, if something horrible happened,

4 (2h 4m 2s):
It's like after I had cancer, it, it's sometimes it comes into my mind like a, like a little bit of a light bulb or a, or a wave. Like I'll think to myself, you know, if I'm having a, a slightly bad day, you know what I mean and I'll, you know, be like, like I don't, for whatever reason it happens just sometimes when I'm out doing normal errands and I'm having a slightly bad day, gonna the gas station, pumping gas or something. And then I think to myself, oh man, at least I'm not in the hospital right now. Yeah. Dealing with some crazy, you know, existential life and death thing, you know? And so yeah, maybe it is a learned thing 'cause of, of what I've been through with that. Because the same thing happened after I burned my foot. You know, as soon as it's sort of, as soon as I'm, you're quickly, you start of, you go from, I can't believe this has happened.

4 (2h 4m 47s):
I'm angry. I've just ruined my vacation. I might lose my foot. This is horrible too. Okay, how are we gonna get better? How are we gonna make sure that I do everything to change the bandages on time? And you, your whole, your whole life changes, right? You're, I'm not, I'm not thinking about all the things that I'm normally stressed about, whether it's work or relationships or whatever. Things that are just normal standard things that you're pissed off about and all of a sudden you're just comp, oh, not even thinking about that anymore. I'm just thinking about making sure I don't get an infection on my foot. And you're sort of treating it like a military operation, trying to save your foot or trying to, you know, make sure that you, you know, make the right choices in your cancer treatment. And, and then when you come out of it, this is true, it's possibly a learned thing.

4 (2h 5m 31s):
You come out of it and you realize, oh, all that shit that I'm nor normally worried about doesn't matter compared to what, what I just went through. And then you can kind of maybe learn from that. And, you know, then you, as time passes, you slip back into the same routine, you start stressing out about the same things again. But then every once in a while it pops into your head and go, well, at least I'm not dealing with the foot's healed and I'm yeah. Outside right now and everything's good. I'm walking, I'm talking, I'm alive. So gratitude,

3 (2h 6m 1s):
Gratitude. It's also, people need to experience a certain amount of discomfort in order to appreciate not having that. It's just the way we're wired. For whatever reason I choose voluntary discomfort. I do shit like cold plunges and saunas and hard workouts and I think it's a viable strategy. I think it really works. I think if you can force yourself to do difficult things like a difficult workout, a difficult yoga class, cold plunges saunas, that kind shit, your regular life will be less stressful. Yeah. You'll be, you'll be able to deal with, these were seemingly high stress situations. They will seem less stressful because you're doing voluntary stress all the time.

3 (2h 6m 43s):
Yeah. And you prepare yourself for difficult things when you don't prepare yourself for difficult things, you can get caught up in like, just traffic being something that blows your mind you can't handle anymore. Exactly.

4 (2h 6m 53s):
Yeah. Yeah. I, I see you doing those cold plunges and I haven't done that yet, but people do that in lakes and stuff near

3 (2h 7m 0s):
Me. Yeah.

4 (2h 7m 1s):
That's awesome. I wanna do that.

3 (2h 7m 2s):
Get a sauna, put it right by your lakes. Yeah.

4 (2h 7m 4s):
IIII want to do that. I want to get sauna

3 (2h 7m 5s):
It. But that lake's cold as fuck in the winter,

4 (2h 7m 6s):
Huh? Yeah. I was playing hockey on it a few weeks ago. Woo. Yeah. Just out there shooting some pucks in the net and, and you know, so I can, I can skate again. I did the first year I didn't skate, you know,

3 (2h 7m 15s):
Get yourself one of them little wood powered saunas. Yeah. You could use it with firewood. Yep. So you don't have to have anything electricity rigged up out there. Yep. Yep. They make a bunch of those. Yep. You can get 'em. Throw some wood in there. Get that bitch hot as fuck. Get a chainsaw, cut a hole in the ice. Yeah.

4 (2h 7m 31s):
I've

3 (2h 7m 31s):
Been, make sure you don't drown.

4 (2h 7m 32s):
I am gonna do that because it's, it's, I'm not sure how I mean I haven't done a cold plunge. I can tell you that. I do like the cold. Like, we sort of touched on that earlier. Like when you just go outside into, like, sometimes it's Canadians complain about the cold who live in the city, but when you live in the country, it's different. The city winter sucks 'cause like they put salt on the roads and you're basically running from your house to your car. But in the country when there's, you go outside and it's nature and you walk into the woods, there's no bugs, there's no mud, everything's frozen. You can go places you can't go in the summer, in the winter. You can walk across lakes, you can walk like across huge lakes to islands that are over there with warm, you know, Baffin Canada goose jacket on something about

3 (2h 8m 16s):
Walking across lakes that I don't like. Oh yeah. It's, it's, I don't like, oh yeah.

4 (2h 8m 20s):
It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's sort of like, I, I, I kind of was thinking to myself, I was gonna say, you know, it's sort of like a cold plunge except it's just, you just go outside as a cold plunge sometimes. Yeah. You know, it's like you do get a dopamine rush Right. Hundred percent just from being outside. So you, you, you can, like, I've actually noticed that in warmer climates sometimes I'm a bit more lethargic, you know, but when the winter comes it's like, okay, you go outside, it's like, you know, you feel it, you feel that, you know, it's just,

3 (2h 8m 47s):
Well, Letterman used to always have a studio, really cold You don want people to be warm and

4 (2h 8m 51s):
Sleepy. Yeah. Yeah. A

3 (2h 8m 52s):
Little cold, a little keeps

4 (2h 8m 55s):
The comedy fresh. Yeah.

3 (2h 8m 56s):
Yeah. But there's something about walking across a lake that is just like, at any moment now it's get break.

4 (2h 9m 4s):
Oh, no, no. Well, 'cause you know, I know. You

3 (2h 9m 6s):
Can't I know. Look, I went ice fishing last year. Yeah,

4 (2h 9m 8s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

3 (2h 9m 9s):
I get

4 (2h 9m 9s):
It now. People make mistakes all the time. They go, they wait too long and it's a spring and they drive the truck out on it and it goes through the ice. And, but if you're, you know, if you're properly advised by people that know what they're doing, don't, you know, like, like the people, you know, that some of my friends out there do a lot of ice fishing. You know, they tell you. Okay, the other thing you can do is like, when I was playing hockey on the lake this year, you just, just stay close to the shore. So you go, okay, well if I fall through, it's only two feet deep or three feet deep here. So, you know, you won't actually be sucked away under the, under the, under the ice. But walking across in the middle. Yeah. You have a little bit more dangerous out in the middle there.

3 (2h 9m 47s):
I'm sure you've seen the video of the Russian woman who jumps into the river. Oh yeah. Yeah. It's so

4 (2h 9m 52s):
Horrible. Oh my gosh. Yeah.

3 (2h 9m 53s):
They cut a hole in the ice and she doesn't realize it's a raging river underneath it. And she just gets sucked under.

4 (2h 9m 58s):
And I heard that just happened recently in the States too. A a woman's dog or something went in and she

3 (2h 10m 3s):
In after. Oh, oh God, God damnit.

4 (2h 10m 7s):
Yeah. The,

3 (2h 10m 8s):
That's fucking terrifying. The idea of being trapped under the ice. Like,

4 (2h 10m 12s):
There's another one of a guy who's trying to, they cut two holes and they try to swim from one or the other, and the ice is clear and you see him under there and you see him, he couldn't figure where the holes, you see him get disoriented and then you see him trying to find his way back to the other hole. And then he does eventually find his way. But there's this sort of moment of panic where his friends are up on top and they're, they're banging on the ice and they're trying to say, no, no, this way, this way you can see him, you, you can see his body panicking. You know, you can see him like sort of feeling. And, and

3 (2h 10m 38s):
When you panic, you lose oxygen. Yeah. You know, your body, your heart rate goes up. It's like not good, not easy to keep

4 (2h 10m 44s):
You. There's guy, there it is right there. Oh my God. I don't wanna see this

3 (2h 10m 47s):
Man. I don't wanna see this. Stop it. Jamie.

4 (2h 10m 50s):
I remember the first time I saw the concept of, of falling through the ice in, in the winter was that, remember that movie? Never Cry Wolf. You ever seen that movie? That was a good movie. Look at this. Yeah. And this is, I this is real. Goes there, there's, they're trying to say this way, this way. And then he goes back all the way back. He goes all the way b. Yeah. Oh, the music even makes it.

3 (2h 11m 19s):
Yeah. What is he doing?

4 (2h 11m 21s):
Yeah, he they had a rope. He found the rope.

3 (2h 11m 25s):
Is he gonna make it? Yeah, yeah,

4 (2h 11m 26s):
Yeah. He ends up making it, but yeah, there you go. So I think you want a cold plunge in the lake, closer to shore,

3 (2h 11m 33s):
Bro. Fuck what that is. Whatever that is. Fuck what that is. Jesus. He was so close when he, yeah. He was like a foot away from the hole and he couldn't tell. That's great. That's nuts, man.

4 (2h 11m 45s):
It was that You ever see that movie? Never Cry Wolf from the eighties was about a guy that goes up in the Arctic to study wolves. And then he ends up, you know, befriending them and Brian Deese plays the Evil Trapper and it was a Oh,

3 (2h 11m 56s):
One of that movies.

4 (2h 11m 56s):
Yeah, it was, it was, it was a great movie. It was based on this Canadian novel Farley Moat novel called Never Cry. Never Cry Wolf. Yeah. Did

3 (2h 12m 3s):
The Wolves really make friends with him in real life? So

4 (2h 12m 6s):
He goes up to,

3 (2h 12m 7s):
And the novel, right? It's a novel. It's

4 (2h 12m 9s):
A true story. He goes up to about a scientist who goes up to study these wolves and, you know, it's just sort of man versus nature kind of story. We ended up becoming a Disney movie. But you know, he ends up, you know, running outta food, his food gets Dr. Dropped off in the wrong place or something like that. So he ends up sort of seeing the wolves eating mice. So then he ends up, you know, the big scene, the big probably inspired some of my work later in life. He starts eating mice off crackers and stuff like that. and it was a big oh, gross out. So he needs the mice off the crackers. But, but then he ends up falling through the ice at one point, walking across a lake and there's a, a scene like that. and it, it's one of those, you know, back in the eighties, pre CGI movies where you're just sort of, remember you had to come up with actual scenes where something relatable and shocking happens that you can actually really like grips you, you know?

4 (2h 12m 60s):
Yeah. And then Brian, he shows up and well, you know, he's, he kills the wve, kills the wolves and it's very sad. And that's the end of the movie, so you don't have to watch it anymore.

3 (2h 13m 8s):
Well, at one point in time people did have to have become friends with wolves. 'cause that's where dogs came from. So when wolves came around the campfires, there must have been some curious wolves. And there must have been some generous hunters who threw 'em a bone or threw 'em some meat. And that's how dogs got made. The, the, the bitch ass wolves were like, oh, just

9 (2h 13m 28s):
I'm happy to be your friend. Yeah. I don't really wanna hunt

4 (2h 13m 30s):
Here anymore. Yeah. Why not? They're cooking some nice, you know, amazing. and it made ma woolly mammoth steaks here. I think that smells better than the Yeah. Smells were

3 (2h 13m 38s):
Eating. Smells incredible.

4 (2h 13m 39s):
Yeah. Yeah. You know,

3 (2h 13m 41s):
Especially with a wolf nose, imagine how good up,

4 (2h 13m 44s):
Oh my God.

3 (2h 13m 44s):
So we made friends with them. And that's, that's where dogs, that's where Charlie comes from. Charlie comes from a wolf.

4 (2h 13m 49s):
Yeah. I, I was, yeah, I've, I've watched some of your episodes where you talk about wolves. 'cause I'm really finding myself interested in it. 'cause this is, I hear them at night, Charlie, like at night, like, not every night, but what's up Charlie? I, you hear them howling and she goes crazy. So in the house at night you hear 'em

3 (2h 14m 8s):
Because they'll eat her.

4 (2h 14m 10s):
And so, so we'll she'll hear them bef you know, from in the house at night. I don't hear them. But all of a sudden this happens, you know, three times a week she starts running around the house, barking, barking, barking. And then, and then we go out on the porch and you hear them howling in the distance. And, and so they just, so this summer And I know this happened to you. I, I had, I had chickens. I got chickens. I got chickens in, in in June as well. I had six chickens and eggs. You know, I'm getting eggs from my chickens and I. I've eaten a lot of eggs now, eating a lot of eggs. And, and they free range, right? So it's not fenced in. Right. But the, the woods are sort of, there's a pond and their woods are on the other side of the pond.

4 (2h 14m 53s):
And it's kind of a pasture on one side. So, you know, debatably, the wolves and the coyotes don't come right up to near the barns where the chickens are. Right. So I've let them free range. So in the morning I get up and I let the chickens out, and then they spend the day walking around on the lawn and the grass and in the sort of a more, you know, closer to the house area. And this was great all summer. It was great. and I named them, you know, it was, it was like Loretta, Patsy, Shania Dolly, June and Anne, they're my girls. You know, gave 'em all female country singers names. And then they were, I bonded with them in a way. Like, they're kind of, kind of sweet, you know, I actually would take thought sometimes I'd bring one in the house and it would like, you know, hang out with it and play piano with it.

4 (2h 15m 38s):
and it was like, you know, it was I mean, this is again weird, but it was, you could tell it, it was interested in the music. Like there's an intelligence there that's, you know, I mean I know chickens aren't known for being the most intelligent thing in the world, but you would see their wheels turning, listening to the music. I kind of become attached to these chickens, you know? And then, yeah. So I get a bit more comfortable with having them free range. They free ranged all summer and they're great 'cause they're eating all the bugs and they're getting all the, you know, insects and stuff on the property and around the house. And so I I, I drive into town one day. Okay. So I'm gone for two hours.

4 (2h 16m 18s):
Okay. and I come back and I'm coming up the driveway and it's just feathers, feathers, feathers, feathers, feathers. And there was one survivor, Loretta survived. She was sort of, funnily enough, there was one chicken that didn't hang out with other chickens all the time. And this one, Loretta, I named her Loretta. And she was probably just somewhere else. But the five just got, got, got killed by the coyotes. and I saw them on my, on my security cameras, came right up to the house. And, and so the thing is, is like you realize and I realize this even more after talking to the wolf expert, they were watching the house from the woods and they saw me leave and they knew that there was nobody there.

4 (2h 17m 3s):
And they chose their moment, the wolves or the, I think it might have been coyotes that, that, that did the chickens. They like waited. Like they waited for me. They knew, they knew my truck. They knew there was nobody there. And they said, you know, well one good thing to do if you leave, you know, it's to play ra play talk radio. You know, maybe they'll hear that. But so they were watching and they, they came and they got five of them all at once. and it was, chickens were gone. There was just feathers everywhere. Like, like, and like, it almost looked like a bomb had hit the chicken. It was like just a big circle of feathers. And there's five circles of feathers.

3 (2h 17m 37s):
It's weird to come upon. Right.

4 (2h 17m 39s):
And so then I have this one chicken left. And this is actually kind of sad too. It's funny. Like, I literally cried and then my 'cause I was like so upset. And then, and then, and then my neighbors, you know, were farmers, you know, or buddies of mine, you know, came over and they were like, whoa, look at the chicken feathers everywhere. and I said, you know, I was like, you know, is this normal for me to be crying about this? and I said, do farmers cry? They go not over their dead chickens. You know, I'm like, I'm like a city guy here crying over my dead chickens. But, but so then, yeah, so then I got two more chickens to keep Loretta company. And this is kind of breaking news.

4 (2h 18m 19s):
As of yesterday, these two new chickens came and they hung up with Loretta for the next, since I know August. And then, well this is a downer, but yesterday I got a call and the two chickens killed the killed Loretta. The, the ones, the one that was from the different flock, you know? Really? They pecked her to death last night or two nights ago in the middle of the night. So Oh, Jesus Christ. Yeah. That's a downer. But anyway, so now you're like, okay, so that's, now I got these two con murder of chickens. So I got two fucking murderer chickens and I'm planning to get more chickens in the spring, so I'm gonna get rid of the two chickens. Yeah. You

3 (2h 18m 54s):
Got to start from scratch. Start

4 (2h 18m 55s):
From from scratch. 'cause I can't keep these new chickens around. So

3 (2h 18m 57s):
They're fucking murderers.

4 (2h 18m 58s):
Yeah. That's crazy. Yeah. And, and, and

3 (2h 19m 0s):
They're like, hi, I'm your friend. Like no you're not. Yeah, yeah. You killed my other friend and

4 (2h 19m 4s):
They Exactly. And they were friends for the, well they, they were all together for the last, you know what

3 (2h 19m 8s):
You're supposed to do,

4 (2h 19m 10s):
I know. Yeah. Put

3 (2h 19m 11s):
'em in oven.

4 (2h 19m 11s):
Yeah. It's not like I'm gonna 'em rehome them. Hey, would you like these two murderers? Yeah.

3 (2h 19m 16s):
Don't, you don't want to rehabilitate 'em either. Just want

4 (2h 19m 18s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Apparently you let put

3 (2h 19m 21s):
'em on the grill. Yeah,

4 (2h 19m 22s):
I was, I was told you hang them upside down. Just hold 'em upside down for a while and they kind of black out and then you can,

3 (2h 19m 29s):
Don't you wanna get revenge for Loretta?

4 (2h 19m 31s):
It's, it's, it's a strange, well, you know what, here's the, here's an interesting thing about revenge. 'cause I've been thinking about, Well I was, I was thinking about revenge with the coyotes, right? Yeah. So and so here's the thing. That's a very sort of odd thing, you know, I, I love the coyotes. I love the wolves. Like I love them. Like I love hearing them at night. Yeah. and I love seeing them and I photographed them. I've, I've had a, I've had many moments where I've been engaged in a standoff with them. I've filmed it. And, and so I kind of was really mad for a minute and then I thought, well, you know what I, I, I think I like the coyotes more than the chickens, to be honest with you.

4 (2h 20m 12s):
So I'm just gonna kind of figure out a way to kind of, you know, control the situation. But also, you know, watching your show with, forget who it was, but it was a expert in this area and talking to people apparently, like if you, if you try to, again, this is all theory, but apparently if you try to completely control the population of coyotes by, it just makes more coyotes. It just makes more coyotes. Yeah.

3 (2h 20m 36s):
It's Dan Flores. Yeah. He wrote a book called Coyote America.

4 (2h 20m 38s):
That's right. He, he was the one talking about that where the, the coyote actually,

3 (2h 20m 42s):
The female coyote has more pups. Yeah,

4 (2h 20m 44s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So

3 (2h 20m 45s):
That's, but that was what I was talking about earlier where they were prosecuted by the, or persecuted by the gray wolves. 'cause gray wolves and coyotes don't mix. So when the, the gray wolves would kill the coyotes, the coyotes would expand the range and then they would repopulate new areas where the gray wolves weren't. And the way they would find out how many coyotes are around that they do, they call out to each

4 (2h 21m 6s):
Other. Roll call. That's right. It was on the show that I heard that. Yeah. And when

3 (2h 21m 8s):
Someone is not responding Yeah. The female starts to panic and have more pups.

4 (2h 21m 12s):
Yeah. That amazing. It's pretty wild. And that's why they spread all across during

3 (2h 21m 15s):
The whole country. Yeah, yeah. During every city in the United States of America. They're

4 (2h 21m 18s):
In the cities now. Yeah.

3 (2h 21m 19s):
Yeah. They're everywhere. Every single state has coyotes. Yeah. It's pretty nuts. But I love 'em too. I think they're awesome. I definitely wanted to kill them after they killed my chickens. Yeah. But that's also, it's like I'm not in the country either, bitch. I'm in a fucking suburb. Yeah. Yeah. Like this is ridiculous.

4 (2h 21m 32s):
Right? Yeah. You don't want with little small

3 (2h 21m 34s):
Wolves in the suburbs. Yeah. You know, but they're everywhere in la Coyotes are downtown, they're everywhere. They're all over the place in Los Angeles. Yeah. They're just little wolves.

4 (2h 21m 45s):
Yeah. I I, I remember they used to come up to my place at the place at, in, in la That was that. We did the web show, you know, coyotes were a lot of coyotes around. I saw Bobcat on that street once. Those are cool and those

3 (2h 21m 59s):
Are cool to see, right?

4 (2h 21m 60s):
Yeah. I was pretty stupid actually when I was there. 'cause I, I, I first saw the coyotes and I had this idea, oh, I like the coyotes. and I would wanna go grocery shopping and I buy some chicken gizzards and I'd throw 'em on the hillside. Oh no. And then they really started coming around, so I stopped doing that. Yeah.

3 (2h 22m 14s):
Duh. You can't feed coyotes. I'm sure a lot of people in Hollywood do though. Yeah. I'm sure they feed feed deer. I'm sure they feed coyotes. Yeah. Yeah. I know people in my neighborhood feed deer. Yep. People love having deer around. Yeah.

4 (2h 22m 27s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 22m 28s):
I know a guy's got a, not in my neighborhood, but he's got a like 20 pieces of 20 acres of land and he's got at least two feeders. Right. So like at every day at 5:00 PM he could look out his window and see deer. Yeah. Because they're there to get fed. Yeah.

4 (2h 22m 43s):
Yeah. It's beautiful. You, you been hunting lately or

3 (2h 22m 46s):
Not lately. Yeah. No

4 (2h 22m 48s):
Planning on going out again or come to Canada, come hunt in Canada.

3 (2h 22m 51s):
I've been there before.

4 (2h 22m 52s):
I, I, I, I've, I've wanted to

3 (2h 22m 55s):
I that your government like seriously worries me.

4 (2h 22m 58s):
Yeah. You know, come, come up and it really does run for Prime Minister. Let's change, come up, run for Prime Minister. I thought Pier, you could do it. You can do it. It'd be amazing. It would be amazing.

3 (2h 23m 7s):
How do you say his name again? Paul Pev.

4 (2h 23m 9s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 23m 9s):
Pev. Pierre. Pev.

4 (2h 23m 10s):
Sorry Peter. But no, the people, the people would love to have you up there. You know, not everybody, but a lot of people would love to have you up there. You know what it's like

3 (2h 23m 18s):
The people at Blue hair up there, they don't want nothing to do it. Me.

4 (2h 23m 19s):
Yeah. Yeah. No, but I mean, I think I want you to know that you are loved by so many up there and it, it's people that I love Canadians.

3 (2h 23m 27s):
They're awesome. I've always said Canada has 20% less douche bags. Yeah. In

4 (2h 23m 31s):
America it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's just very similar to, to what it's like here with the division. It's the same division, same, same

3 (2h 23m 38s):
Bullshit to stop it. It's, it's not just the same divisions and the same bullshit. That's true too. But that's also a ploy that's being used to separate ourselves while they enact more control. And that's what's scary. That's what's scary. It's like the underlying mechanism. Like what's, what, what's what's actually happening behind the scenes? Well, they're trying to clamp down and control the population. That's, that's scary. They're trying to clamp down and control the information the population gets. That's fucking scary. Yeah.

4 (2h 24m 3s):
Yeah. As of, 'cause that

3 (2h 24m 4s):
Doesn't ever come back.

4 (2h 24m 5s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 24m 6s):
Once they get that power, they don't give it back to the people. Yeah. Never happens. So you gotta fight to stop that from happening. Yeah. You can't let them decide what you can and can't do. 'cause they're just people.

4 (2h 24m 17s):
I mean there would be outrage in Canada if your show got banned, if caught can, got, got blocked because people, everybody watches your show I mean, it's just, it's like here, everybody watches your show. Everybody loves your show. It would be outraged. It would be political. It could, it would be political. Suicide. It

3 (2h 24m 32s):
Could happen though. It could happen. Especially if there's some new covid type thing happens. and I have contrary experts on, I have people on that are, are like Robert Malone, the guy that they maligned and said it was a conspiracy theorist and that, that he was a, you know, wasn't a qualified expert to talk about the subject. Even though he is vaccine injured himself, even though he owns nine patents on the creation of mRNA vaccine technology. Yeah. I mean he's a legitimate scientist that worked on that technology. I think

4 (2h 25m 4s):
The Canadian public values freedom of, of, of expression and speech. Right. As

3 (2h 25m 9s):
Much as the Canadian government doesn't, that's the problem. It,

4 (2h 25m 12s):
It's, it's, again, it's, they haven't passed that law. And, and, but,

3 (2h 25m 17s):
But the thing is, if they do, if they try to and there, there's calls to do it right now in America. Yeah. Yeah. There's also calls to do it from the World Health Organization to try to put a kibosh on any information that doesn't jive with what they're saying. In the case of another situation, another pandemic or another I mean Google released that thing where they were saying that they had some new regulations that would be put in place in cases of a special event. Or, you know, anything of extreme social or political, like some thing where they're gonna be able to stop air quotes, misinformation. That's fucking terrifying because oftentimes that information turns out to be correct.

4 (2h 25m 58s):
And I love your approach to it. And your, your standup, your new standup is hilarious. I, I won Wont say it obviously, but it's just, it's, it's hilarious. Thank, thank you. Because, you know, it's, it's very self-reflective too. and I just thought it was just amazing because you're, you know, you're kind of, I won't say it, I don't wanna say it. 'cause obviously you got your show coming up. Thank you. but it, but it, I thought it was even people that, you know, may think they disagree with you on some subjects probably are gonna really find it quite pointed the way, the way you address the issue in your standup set. I thought it was awesome. It's hilarious. Yeah. Thank you.

3 (2h 26m 31s):
Thanks.

4 (2h 26m 32s):
Yeah. Amazing.

3 (2h 26m 32s):
Well, it's obviously something on everybody's mind. It's just, we're in a weird, pivotal moment where technology and our awareness of corruption is all meeting in this battleground in the middle of the fucking field. Like Braveheart. Like, that's what's scary. What's scary is these two things are colliding and don don't know which one's gonna win. 'cause we could turn into a dictatorship. We could, we could turn into something that's closer to a dictatorship and then something that's closer still and continue to go down that line. Especially if there's some need to clamp down on society because something happened. Whether it's a solar flare or whether it's a terrorist attack, or whether it's just flat out war.

3 (2h 27m 17s):
That's all they would need. All they would need is some reason why they need to completely clamped on your ability to express yourself. Platform's, ability to distribute information that's contrary to what they're saying. Any of those things. Anything that they can do to stop that to, to like to, to put a, a clamp down on people, like disrupting the narrative that they're trying to distribute.

4 (2h 27m 41s):
It's, it's, it's, it's wild that COVID was essentially one of the catalysts that got me to leave the city. And, you know, it started with the van. I got the van and I'm out in the remote desert and I'm loving it out there. and I, I was, you know, I was my bug out. Van I mean, I, I had, I had, I had probably, probably could have survived in that van with a solar power battery system. And my food I'd freeze dried, you know, meals ready to eat, you know, camping food, boil water and pour it in the bag and lasagna. This is amazing. You know, I could have probably spent, you know, months out there without even having to, to go anywhere, you know, and you start to go, Hey, this is kind of cool.

4 (2h 28m 22s):
You know, like, I'm self-sufficient out here. I'm not, you know, you know, I've got 26 gallon

3 (2h 28m 27s):
You didn't get lonely.

4 (2h 28m 28s):
Well, I would, I would, I would, I would drive out for, to a cool place for three or four days and then I'd go to another location and then So

3 (2h 28m 36s):
You'd go and hang with people?

4 (2h 28m 38s):
No, I, I wasn't, I was just doing this sort of

3 (2h 28m 40s):
Isolation. Totally. and I

4 (2h 28m 42s):
Was doing this. VI was really actually kind of getting into videography again. I was, I got some cam, I got a, I shot this video in Sony A seven S3, but I started getting back into cameras. Right,

3 (2h 28m 54s):
But you weren't around any people.

4 (2h 28m 56s):
Well, I was. When

3 (2h 28m 57s):
You went to cool places, did you go hang around people?

4 (2h 28m 59s):
No, no. I was just alone. Yeah. And, and, and, and it was making these, it was just Charlie and I. We made this sort of, you know,

3 (2h 29m 5s):
Film. How long did you go without being around any people?

4 (2h 29m 7s):
Well, 'cause then I would go

3 (2h 29m 10s):
'cause when you came here the last time you did the podcast. Yeah. I had the distinct impression of a man who just got rescued from an island. Yeah. It was Tom Hanks. Yep. Yeah. You had the fucking volleyball.

4 (2h 29m 19s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

3 (2h 29m 20s):
You

4 (2h 29m 20s):
Seem it was like that. Yeah.

3 (2h 29m 22s):
You seem a little manic.

4 (2h 29m 23s):
It was, it was somewhat of a creative experiment as mixed with real paranoia as well. 'cause I do sort of, I, I think sometimes, like, like I said, you know, I got testicular cancer. How the fuck did that happen to me? So I'm just like, okay, this is everything bad. If this is happening, it's gonna be bad. So it's gonna be bad to me. So I'm just gonna, and then

3 (2h 29m 43s):
So how long did you go without being in contact with any other people?

4 (2h 29m 48s):
Well, so I was still had my house in la so I hadn't sold my house yet. So I had this van. So I would drive out into the desert for a couple weeks and basically go on a camping trip and then I'd go back home. And then

3 (2h 29m 58s):
Were you around people when you were back home? So

4 (2h 30m 1s):
It was still that people would come over, we'd hang out outside. It was that kind of whole thing for the first few weeks or whatever month, couple, however many was it, remember it was a couple of months? Or was you

3 (2h 30m 11s):
Like, cover your mouth and then you'd all run outside, hold your breath?

4 (2h 30m 14s):
Yeah, kind of. We would just hang outside for a couple months, go to the dog park and see people there and stuff like that. It was at, you know, that initial stage where, 'cause you know you weren't in LA then? No. So it was wild when

3 (2h 30m 27s):
I was in la

4 (2h 30m 28s):
Were you in LA at the beginning of Covid? Yeah. Oh, oh yeah. The first during Covid. Oh, that's during, because FI did, I came on your show in LA when, at the beginning of Covid. Yeah, that's right. That's right. And the second time I came on your show was here. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Yeah.

3 (2h 30m 39s):
That was like, because remember how

4 (2h 30m 40s):
They were like,

3 (2h 30m 41s):
You're, you're avoiding the question.

4 (2h 30m 42s):
Remember how there were military helicopters going over? Yeah.

3 (2h 30m 44s):
You're avoiding my question. How long did you go with without being around people?

4 (2h 30m 49s):
Maybe a couple months or something like that. You know,

3 (2h 30m 51s):
How many months?

4 (2h 30m 53s):
Like, well, couples two, A few is three or more. Maybe it was three. Yeah.

3 (2h 30m 59s):
You sure it wasn't more?

4 (2h 31m 1s):
Well then I started doing the van thing. So there was nobody where I was going anyway, so I had an excuse, you know? Right. I was on a

3 (2h 31m 6s):
Camping. That's still being with no people. How long were you with no people then?

4 (2h 31m 11s):
Yeah. I mean it was a few months for sure. I'm not I mean it wasn't.

3 (2h 31m 14s):
But all told How many months do you think you spent of that year without being around people?

4 (2h 31m 18s):
Well, First of all, one thing that's interesting about it, as I happened to, to be single at the time,

3 (2h 31m 23s):
You a lawyer. The way you're answering these questions like a goddamn lawyer. How long? Well,

4 (2h 31m 26s):
It's a bit long. It is a bit embarrassing, I guess to think that, that I was, no, it's isolated. No it's not. But I also found it kind of fun. Right,

3 (2h 31m 33s):
But how long,

4 (2h 31m 35s):
Like, it was like, like it was about three or four months or something like that.

3 (2h 31m 39s):
But then the van the van, you went around people then too.

4 (2h 31m 42s):
No, but that, that, that was,

3 (2h 31m 43s):
That's isolation too.

4 (2h 31m 44s):
Yeah. And that, but that was, that was more like, I was enjoying going out into nature by myself and making videos.

3 (2h 31m 49s):
But you were still by yourself with no people for how long?

4 (2h 31m 50s):
But I'd, I'd go for a couple weeks and I'd go back to LA and I'd be in LA and

3 (2h 31m 54s):
You'd be around people. I'd

4 (2h 31m 55s):
Recharge a bit. I'd be around the people a little bit. And then I'd go back out again. And, and then, and then as things died down as they did, you know, I started being around people like everybody else.

3 (2h 32m 5s):
And I couldn't imagine going months without being around people.

4 (2h 32m 8s):
Well, the thing that was weird about it was, I, you know, I, you know, I'm not married. I was single. I didn't have a girlfriend at the time. So like, I actually, that's

3 (2h 32m 17s):
No responsibility. True freedom.

4 (2h 32m 19s):
That's what made it weird was I didn't, you know, I didn't, I could imagine if I had a girlfriend at the time, we just said, okay, we're gonna isolate together. Now you're just with your significant other here. I was, okay, I'm gonna isolate. and I don't have a significant other at the time. So I was like, I actually, the first time where I've ever had this sort of self-imposed or whatever, maybe it was imposed on us, you know, or, or I took, I took the, took it, I took it as an opportunity to be by myself and go out and make videos in the desert and go to these really crazy remote places. and I would seek out places where there wasn't gonna be other vans and other people. But when you were out in the desert, a lot of times you'd go to somewhere and there'd be other people out in their vans and you'd hang out and have beers with people out in the desert and hang out. And then you'd go think of a more remote place.

4 (2h 32m 60s):
and I started discovering some amazing places like that, that, you know, the rabbit hole you go down when you, you know, covid aside, isolation aside, just going out into the American southwest in a, in a, in a camper van that's self-sufficient is pretty wild. The stuff that's out there. I mean. I think I probably talked about Chaco Canyon the last time I was here. 'cause I think I'd just gone there in New Mexico, which is, you know, Pueblo, native American ruins of a, it's essentially like a s like a stone ruins of a city that was built in the year 8 75. 875. And it's like Machu Picchu level type type city that they didn't even discover until the 1950s.

4 (2h 33m 44s):
'cause it was buried. And now they've, you know, you're, and you're, and it's in this beautiful, it's on the Navajo Nation Reserve, you know, on the, on the Navajo land. And you feel this sort of, I I, I felt sort of somewhat shocked, I guess. That there's all this stuff out there that you don't really hear talked about constantly. Like I hear about Machu Picchu, somebody brings that up once a week. Nobody's ever brought up. Who

3 (2h 34m 14s):
Are you talking to? Brings up Machu Picchu once

4 (2h 34m 16s):
A week. Ah, don don't know. It just comes up a lot. No, people talk. It was probably you. I think, you know, you talk about pyramids and stuff. I rarely talk about Machu. You talk about the pyramid. You don talk about the pyramids a lot, right? Yeah. I talk about the pyramids. Like Machu pic's pretty crazy though, talking about, you know, ancient cultures that have built these incredible structures, right. And right here in New Mexico, just up the road from here, you know, like 11 hour drive from here. Right. You know, just outside of Albuquerque, Navajo Nation, there's this, it's a si you know, it's a huge canyon. Completely empty, no one there. Mm. It's, and it's, and and so it's this realization that there was this civilization there that was, and they've studied this place quite extensively. In fact, Mike Judge, you know, from Beavis and Butthead Sure.

4 (2h 34m 59s):
His father, Mike Judge, grew up in New Mexico. I found this out after the fact. So I started looking up information about Chaco Canyon to try to learn a bit more about it. And his father, James Judge is his name, was one of the predominant researchers of this particular archeological site. Right. Oh wow. And so he wrote this book about it and it, it, and they dived, you know, he spent his life diving into details. Yeah. Oh, that's so fucking cool. Yeah. So I spent like, you know, a day there and there was no one there with you. I was there with Charlie. Yeah. And, and just you and Charlie. Just me and Charlie and I shot a shot video. There's this video on my YouTube channel too. I put, I was doing all this for my YouTube channel. I was really getting to the filmmaking side of it. You know, I had my drone, I was going out and filming stuff and all these, isn't it crazy?

10 (2h 35m 41s):
You, you're just allowed to walk around

4 (2h 35m 43s):
There. Yeah. It's wild. And, and see that po the bottom left. See that sort of structure there? So that was a five story building at one point. And you, you can go walking through there and there's wood that they've used as beams that's still like within the, within the, it's petrified wood or whatever. It's within the, the stone. And you know, it's wood from the year 8 75 to 1100. It went like the people left there in 1100 because of a drought. Like they were gone before Columbus. Right. You see the wood there. Wow. That, that's from eight, you know, between 8 75 and 1175 and whenever that was particularly built. Wow. So, and, and this area, they've done all these studies of this area.

4 (2h 36m 25s):
So they know, like, like they found McCaw feathers, speaking of my old pal Rex, they found McCaw feathers there. Now McCaw are from the furthest north is Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico. So they knew that people were coming from Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico Peninsula Mexico up here to trade with, with them. And they found, you know, evidence of all these different things that sort of indicated that people were coming from as far north as Canada, as far south as South America to come to this area. And that that, that, that whole Chaco Canyon area, once you get in there is like this I know not to get all like, you know, voodoo about it.

4 (2h 37m 11s):
But you know, when you talk, people talk about Sedona and there's the energy there. You feel this sort of na and it may be just 'cause it's so beautiful and it's so quiet and it's this natural kind of amphitheater where it's silent and the wind is deadened and you're just all alone and you're walking through this structure. I share the fascination that you have for the pyramids. I want to go there someday. I think it would be one of them. If I, if I could snap my fingers right now and just be somewhere, it would be the pyramids. I'd like to go to the pyramids someday. I've never been there. So here's me walking through it with my camera. And so you're walking through this with, you know, by yourself and, and that's amazing. You're just going like, wow. Like there was all this stuff going on here. And apparently they've, they've determined this was like a meeting place for, for people from all over North America that would kind of come here and share information.

4 (2h 38m 3s):
They actually believe that there was a, you know, sort of almost like a festival type atmosphere that would happen there, where people would come and trade and share information and all this stuff.

3 (2h 38m 14s):
Is there, are there similar Native American construction sites like this?

4 (2h 38m 17s):
Yeah. So then you go down this rabbit hole and you realize that they're all over the place. So then there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's I mean there's, there's many of them. There's up in, there's these ones called the cliff dwellings, which are that that one there is actually, this one here is actually later. That's, that's post Columbia. And this one, this was a Spanish probably, I think this one's built around 1500. This was a similar

3 (2h 38m 44s):
Construction. Yeah, exactly.

4 (2h 38m 45s):
It's amazing, right? When you look at it like, oh, it's, they were building stuff in 800 before Europeans had come here using the same kind of building techniques as as that. And, and, and it's weird when you're there and you're touching it and it's like solid and you're going, wow, that's actually, so they've got these cliff dwellings. There's lots of them where they've built into the, the cliffs of, of Colorado. Yeah. Those cliff wellings. I went to one of those ones. Wow. There's one, there's one that's called the G Gila. It's, or Gila National Forest. It's New Mexico. Yeah, it's right on the, yeah, it's up in the border. It's up in New Mexico, I think. Yeah. And that's a wild story there. 'cause it's a national park, you know, and wow,

3 (2h 39m 28s):
Look that

4 (2h 39m 29s):
Caves. So you go walk around there and that one, there were a couple people walking around. They'd drive down. There's a, you know, people walking around, did

3 (2h 39m 35s):
They dig these caves or these caves always exist.

4 (2h 39m 38s):
They're natural caves that they've kind of sort of utilized as, as you know, they built the walls up around the bottom of it and yeah.

3 (2h 39m 45s):
They've done something to it.

4 (2h 39m 47s):
Right. And so this place is wild. This, this and the stories you pick up when you go to these places. 'cause then you go down the rabbit hole, you start reading about it and you go, wow, this is, I never knew about this. They didn't just, they no American had ever been there until the mid 18 hundreds because it was Apache territory. And if you went there, the Apache, you know, would kill you before 18, whatever it was. I forget the date, date, but it was like in the 17 hundreds, early 18 hundreds. Look

3 (2h 40m 16s):
At the writings,

4 (2h 40m 16s):
Walls, this place. I haven't been to this place yet, but I want to go here. Shit, man. Yeah. And, and yeah, you talk about, like, when you start thinking about, you know, UFOs and stuff, you look at some of these petroglyphs and you go, what's, that's that, there's a lot of petroglyphs out there too. What's that? That looks kind of like a, a spaceship or something, you know? But so that's honestly the real reason I was out there in the van by myself so long was because I got addicted to it. I mean, I was just, and that's actually kind of why I ended up moving I was like, I love being out here alone by myself with my van and my camera so much. I want to live in the country again. And

3 (2h 40m 50s):
How'd you find the spot in Canada?

4 (2h 40m 53s):
Well, your spot. I got kind of lucky. I just kinda, I, I I just honestly just started looking on the internet, you know, just like looking at real estate listings. and I just started, you know, looking for a farm near my hometown. And, and I just kept looking and searching every day. And I was lucky that it just kind of fell on my lap right at the right place, right time. My house sold in LA immediately and I was, I drove back and that place I put in an offer and I got it. And it's just nice. It just all worked out and it all worked out. So.

3 (2h 41m 24s):
And how long you been out there now?

4 (2h 41m 27s):
Becoming up on three years in July.

3 (2h 41m 29s):
So it looks like you're having fun. I'm love it. The videos, the videos of you online are very interesting. I'm like, look at Tom, Green,

4 (2h 41m 35s):
I'm enjoying it. I'm kinda

3 (2h 41m 36s):
Living in the woods by himself.

4 (2h 41m 38s):
It's like, there's a lot to do. That is stuff that falls outside of anything that would fall under the, you know, category of what I would consider to be work. Right, right. but it is work, but it's different work. It's like, oh, I gotta, you know, feed the chickens or, or we built a fence this year for the, for the, for the mule and the donkey. So it's this patent rail fence, you know, that is made out of cedar that is literally these a hundred year old cedar rail fences that are on the property that have fallen down in the woods and, you know, have gone by the not used anymore. And we went back with a fence builder, you know, and everybody out there is, you know, you know, in the country is a guy whose family is traditional fence builders whose grandfather built these fences.

4 (2h 42m 27s):
We went and salvaged all this wood and then built, built new fences out of them. Oh, that's cool. And so you're kind of, you know, it's nice to find something to do that is a, you're outside, you're getting exercise and, and you feel

3 (2h 42m 45s):
Like you're actually doing something.

4 (2h 42m 46s):
You feel like you're doing something and, and it's the first time I, I said this earlier, I I, I'm never gonna leave this place. Like, it's the first time I've ever leave lived somewhere where I know I'm never gonna sell it and, and leave. And so every, every step of my life as like everyone, as you're growing up, you've got your first apartment, you go, how long am I gonna be here till I move here? Right. How long I gonna be here? So now I'm just kind of like, now I just, in my head I have like, oh, I'd like to maybe build a log cabin someday in the, on the back woods. You know? So that's sort of one thing. I'm kind of like, kind of thinking about how I wanna build a log cabin. Like the way the, you know, the, my the house itself that I'm in was built in 1857 and it's, and it's a, a log house.

4 (2h 43m 26s):
That's amazing. Amazing. So, and you can see the,

3 (2h 43m 28s):
Do you have photos of the house?

4 (2h 43m 30s):
There's, there's, yeah, there's on, on my YouTube channel. There's a do

3 (2h 43m 33s):
You video tour of the house?

4 (2h 43m 34s):
I haven't really, there's, there's not a full tour, but I think if you can see some of the logs on the YouTube channel, I, I did a, a couple little sort of sample podcast where you can see the wood in the background. That's fucking dope. This is just, this was last week. You live in

3 (2h 43m 47s):
A log house from the 18 hundreds of the wood burning stove behind you. That's amazing.

4 (2h 43m 52s):
Yeah. And yeah, so it's like, and it's, it's interesting. So, you know, you start to realize, you know, I'm doomsday prepping in the van, you know, like, oh, I have, I could be self-sufficient in this van. Well I also, you know, and again, it's, it's, it's fun, but it's also kind of very functional. Like I, I have unlimited fuel. Okay. 'cause there's, there's wood falling in the forest forever. And, and, and I every summer you can go out and I've got a wood splitter, right? Like a say it's a, you know, gas powered wood splitter. And you, you know, you chainsaw the logs, you drop 'em in the wood splitter splits 'em, and it's sort of efficient way of getting firewood basically. So they'll never run outta wood out there.

4 (2h 44m 32s):
The house has actually got propane sort of a furnace as well. So it's runs on propane and the propane truck comes every, you know, there's no natural gas or anything running into the house to heat it. So you have a propane truck comes every couple of months and fills up this propane tank in the winter. But, you know, if, oh shit, you know, shit hits the fan and the propane truck doesn't show up, you know, I can still heat the house fully with wood. There's two wood stoves. Do you have

3 (2h 44m 60s):
Solar?

4 (2h 45m 1s):
I have solar. There's a solar system that was there actually that, but it doesn't actually, not actually connected to the house, but it's connected to the grid and it, it's actually selling energy back to the power company. But not to you. Not to me. No. It's, it's a it's a What

3 (2h 45m 16s):
Kind of scam is that?

4 (2h 45m 17s):
Well, it's paying me. It pays me. Yeah. I get paid.

3 (2h 45m 20s):
Pays you to not be self-sufficient to not be connected.

4 (2h 45m 23s):
Well, I know if shit hits the fan, I can unhook it and plug it. The lights. Can you? Yeah, yeah, I could. Yeah. Yeah. Do you and I actually know I have lots of solar though outside of that system? I have, I have a, actually, you know, the, the van has solar panels on the roof and there's That's

3 (2h 45m 37s):
For electronics.

4 (2h 45m 38s):
It's for electronics, yeah. And you can't really use solar for heat. I've learned all this from the van. So I, I, I work with these guys who've been really cool battle borne batteries. They're called and they are make these batteries, lithium batteries. Right. They make 'em for boats. They make 'em for now off grid houses. And, and, and so I have like a couple of bunkies, you know, like the one I built and one that we kind of set up. It was like a prefabricated building that we put back in the woods and with the wood stove in it. And you know, this, this trailer that I have solar panels on, that butterfly out that I can take anywhere on the property, which has these battle born batteries in it.

4 (2h 46m 20s):
It's constantly charging. So I do have some solar and the barn as well. So the barn I have, and these guys help me set this up. It's really cool. Like it's I mean, I jokingly say the podcast that I'm gonna do in the barn is going to be, I'm sure it isn't, but I'm saying it's the first solar powered barn cast. Okay. It might be maybe, I don't know if there's one, but it, but it's like, 'cause there's no, the barn has no power running to it. It's off grid. But we have, you know, it's, you know, 200 yards from the house. But we've up in the loft got this battery, lithium battery array, solar panels that charge the batteries. And then up in there I can run all my cameras lights.

4 (2h 47m 0s):
Oh wow. Everything. And

3 (2h 47m 3s):
Don't the batteries degrade on those things on like solar panels? So,

4 (2h 47m 7s):
So lithium batteries, I have a really good life to them. Right. I,

3 (2h 47m 12s):
I'm not sure, but they eventually degrade,

4 (2h 47m 13s):
Right? Yeah. It might be 10 years or something like that. I'm not sure. But it's, it's the, that's the, the lithium batteries is kind of newer tech. Like, it's like it's, that was the thing that kind of, you know, when I, when, when covid happened, I, I wanna get a van and go in the desert. So then I, I I, you know, I I I figured out who was making these vans and I, I, I, I then I found out about the battery systems and then I was like, oh, like you just have a regular, you know, plug in the van, you can plug in your camera and charge your camera batteries. You can run your laptop. You can phone your, your plug charge your phone indefinitely.

4 (2h 47m 54s):
And, you know, spending, you know, so many years of my life running around making goofy videos. You know, you, when we were doing the Tom Green show and stuff, you know, you'd go on the road and then you have to go back to the hotel at night to charge your camera batteries. Right, right. The idea that you can go into the middle of the desert and just film and definitely charge your camera batteries. 'cause the sun is recharging these batteries constantly. Pretty dope. It was dope. I built a recording studio in the van. Nice. I was making, you know, music and beats out there and just kind of getting into it. But, so it's, how

3 (2h 48m 22s):
Long did it take before you felt comfortable around people again?

4 (2h 48m 26s):
I was ready to get around people again. Pretty, pretty, pretty much, you know, I was, I was, I I mean. It's, you know, it's funny, after I came on the show last time, and we talked about this, like, there's a general perception in the world. All of a sudden that I was living in my van. Okay. Which I wasn't actually living in my van.

3 (2h 48m 51s):
I might have been responsible for that perception.

4 (2h 48m 52s):
No, it was hilarious. Like, people, oh, I heard you're living in a van now. People would say to me, I'm like, no, I'm not living in a van. I'm going camping and making videos in the desert. No,

3 (2h 48m 59s):
But you were living in a van.

4 (2h 49m 0s):
Yeah, I was. I was. I was.

3 (2h 49m 1s):
You just had the ability to live in a very nice house.

4 (2h 49m 4s):
Exactly. I wasn't actually, you smell like you're a loser. No, it was funny though. It was, but but it was, I I mean I'd hope IIII I mean sometimes, you know, you think you're, and you go, oh, am I a loser? But like, people would sort of say it to me

3 (2h 49m 17s):
Like they were sad. Like

4 (2h 49m 18s):
They were sad. Yeah. Oh, I heard you're living in a van now. Yeah. 'cause you

3 (2h 49m 21s):
Could be like, most people don't live in a van on purpose. Yeah,

4 (2h 49m 23s):
Yeah, exactly. So it was kind of like the Chris Farley sketch. I, I am living in the van down by the river. And, and it was funny how I mean again, the power of, of social media and the size of your audience, you know, it permeated out there pretty big. That like, pretty much everybody I meet thinks I'm living in a van down by the river now. Oh. So,

3 (2h 49m 46s):
Well that's like how we describe Hans Kim. Hans Kim used to be living in a van. Like, look at him now. You know, no one goes from, you know, Tom Green to living in a van. Unless things have gone horribly wrong. Except you, you did it on purpose.

4 (2h 50m 1s):
And it was, it was really driven by the fact that this power system allows me to go make videos in weird places and stay there. You know, like these places, charco Canyons, it's not easy to get there. I mean, it's, it's easy enough. I mean it's two and a half hours out of maybe, no, maybe it was more than that out of Albuquerque. I forget the distance. but it was quite the drive. And you're driving through. It's not on a direct route to anything. And then once you get to the perimeter of it really bad dirt road that you gotta go down, it's not maintained properly. So I suspect that in some ways it almost feels suspicious that like, do they wanna keep people outta here for some reason? Why is this not talked about? More I mean, I, I sort of discussed this a little bit on the video. Like, it seems strange that it's not more celebrated by, you know, our society.

4 (2h 50m 43s):
That there's stuff out there like that that's just, it's, it's incredible and amazing and beautiful. Why does

3 (2h 50m 47s):
Everybody, it doesn't have a good publicist. That's all it is.

4 (2h 50m 49s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah.

3 (2h 50m 50s):
You know, 'cause there's certain things that have, like Machu Picchu is a great publicist. Yeah.

4 (2h 50m 54s):
I think it forces people to confront the idea that, you know, what happened to the Native Americans in this country too and in North America and Canada, you know, like, well, not that we weren't that nice to them, were we. So so it, it makes us have to think about what happened and it,

3 (2h 51m 5s):
But you were just saying that that place was abandoned in the 11 hundreds.

4 (2h 51m 8s):
Yeah. Yeah. Exactly.

3 (2h 51m 9s):
So that has nothing to do with

4 (2h 51m 10s):
Europeans. Sure. European. But just in general, just talking about pre pre-European, not now. Right. But, you know, I think there was probably a period of time when, you know, they were settling Europeans. Not, not just America, Canada too Right. Settling North America where they didn't really want to acknowledge that there was civilization here before, you know, it was, it was more like they were, you know,

3 (2h 51m 38s):
Eminent domain. Yeah, yeah. They were trying to claim it. Yeah, for sure. That I think there's definitely that there's a guilt attached to the way people feel about Native Americans and the the also the, just the, the understanding of what a reservation is. Yeah. You pushed 'em into this area that sucks and force them to live there and all of their traditional land is gone. Yeah. It's all been absorbed by these people that just got here a couple hundred years ago, which is nuts. Yeah. It's so hard to imagine how different this place we're sitting in right now was just 200 years ago.

4 (2h 52m 10s):
Yeah. Yeah.

3 (2h 52m 11s):
I mean they find these all over the place. A friend of mine has,

4 (2h 52m 15s):
Oh man, a ranch out here. Oh wow.

3 (2h 52m 18s):
That's a real Comanche Arrowhead. That's a big one too. That's probably some something they used to shoot a large animal with.

4 (2h 52m 26s):
Wow. That's

3 (2h 52m 28s):
Probably elk. They had elk out here. They used to have elk were in like most states, they had always a lot of deer out here. A lot of different animals. But that's a big ass arrow.

4 (2h 52m 40s):
Yeah. See and it's like, 'cause there's

3 (2h 52m 42s):
Some small ones too that they find, just find real tiny ones. They might have used for like small game birds and things like that. But that's a big fucker.

4 (2h 52m 50s):
See, I, I, I personally, the second I touch this, I felt sort of a sense of kind of, you know, shivers. Right. Wild, right? Yeah. Yeah. I feel like, and I, and maybe it's, it's my mind just thinking about the history of it, but there's, you know, people talk about energy and I was like, is like, is it, and I used to hear people say when they go to Sedona, the energy, there's amazing. And I'm like, what are you talking about? The energy? Right? But then when you go to these places, is it 'cause you're just alone and you're relaxed and you're thinking about it so much. but it's like, you touch this and you go, oh, you think somebody actually like carved this? Somebody made this and then they survived with this. Right. Like however many thousand years ago or whatever. And you go, whoa, that's incredible. You know, they

3 (2h 53m 29s):
Napped that thing and made it sharp and they did all these crazy techniques that they had learned how to make these fucking things. And then they hunted with it. And these people lived here forever, until these Europeans just came in like a wave of locusts. Yeah.

4 (2h 53m 44s):
Yeah. So when you, and so that's the, the battery system allows you, you know, the van and the self-sufficiency of it. 'cause normally if you drove there, let's say you drive six hours to get somewhere. Right? Right. And then the sun's going down and there's no hotels nearby and there's nothing. So you're gonna, you've got a camp in a tent or something, so then it's like not comfortable. And you don't have You don't have Right. You're in your van. Yeah. So now you can drive there and stay for a while. And then it's like it, you just

3 (2h 54m 13s):
Have to make sure you have gas and water.

4 (2h 54m 14s):
Yeah. It's a different experience because now you're waking up to the sunrise over that and making coffee by yourself and

3 (2h 54m 23s):
Looking, thank God you didn't run into like the Manson family or something out there.

4 (2h 54m 27s):
I had a few moments of did you of wacky people. I had a few moments of don don't know if they were wacky people. But your mind starts telling you that you gotta be careful. You, you, you know, like there was a moment, you know, there was a moment out in the desert where I, you know, was all alone out there and a, a truck. This was on the Mexican border actually. And trucks coming from Mexico towards me. And there's, you know, there's signs out in the desert when you get to this. This was actually in the Arizona Mexico border. It's this place called the Kaza Prieta Wilderness Area, which is a decommissioned section of the former Barry f Goldwater Air Force base test range where they would test bombs in World War ii.

4 (2h 55m 8s):
Right. And, and you and you, and it's like really beautiful. Like this, the cactus is, and the

3 (2h 55m 16s):
You want cigar?

4 (2h 55m 17s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Absolutely. I bet you that's a good one too. I'm suret be smoking some foundation, which are sweets or something like that. It's not a, it's not a century Sam or a Phillies blunt. Huh? What what what what, what are they?

3 (2h 55m 31s):
It's a company called Foundation Cigars. They actually made us our own cigar. It's got a JRE logo on it. Nice. They're really good though. Oh, I was skeptical like this company. But it's actually my man Nick from Foundation really know cigars and the whole deal goes down to, oh my god, Nicaragua for

4 (2h 55m 51s):
Some lighter as well.

3 (2h 55m 52s):
Yes, sir. You know how it works. Push down on that black thing that, yeah, there

4 (2h 55m 55s):
You go. Damn. Okay.

3 (2h 56m 1s):
So what was the most sketchy of encounters while you were out there doing that van life?

4 (2h 56m 9s):
Well,

3 (2h 56m 11s):
You got it. You lit. What was the sketchiest?

4 (2h 56m 17s):
There was never anything where I actually pro was in danger, but there was, there was the feeling of being in danger. So, well actually it might have been in danger. It was definitely a feeling of being in danger and, you know.

3 (2h 56m 29s):
So the van's coming up to you.

4 (2h 56m 30s):
Yeah, it was like a truck. A

3 (2h 56m 31s):
Truck. Yeah. You're in the van.

4 (2h 56m 32s):
And there was, there was like, you know, I could write it off in my head if I'm trying to be, you know, positive. They were hunters, but they, you know, they didn't necessarily look like hunters to me. They were, they were not in hunting gear, but they all had guns. They had, but they were rifles. They weren't, they weren't like, you know, assault rifles. They were hunting rifles. And so they could have been hunting and there was four, four guys and they had, you know, they were

3 (2h 56m 55s):
Openly brandishing their rifles.

4 (2h 56m 57s):
No, they were sitting, all four of them. This is what was weird for of them, you know, they were probably hunters. They were probably going hunting. I, I I, but they were sitting like this and they were sitting like this and their rifles were standing, they were holding their rifles like that. So I, I kind of, I kind of assumed that they were going around and looking for a deer or something like that. But, but it was, you know, when you're all alone out there and you see a truck coming towards you and there's no one around, no one's gonna hear anything. You know, you get a little nervous. So I got, I did get in the van and I locked the door and I'm in the van and I'm looking out, out of the van. And they pulled up by the van and they're looking at my van and I see the, the guns in the van. And I'm like, okay, this

3 (2h 57m 34s):
Is, are they speaking Spanish?

4 (2h 57m 35s):
Well, they were, you know, they were, you know, whatever, 50 feet, a hundred feet away. Just looking.

3 (2h 57m 39s):
Do you hear any, any words at all?

4 (2h 57m 41s):
No. No. I, I hadn't, I I, I was, I was locked in the van, you know, hiding. I was hiding in the van. It just turned 50 years old.

3 (2h 57m 47s):
So they never got close to you?

4 (2h 57m 49s):
No, no. Then, then they drove away. But there's this sort of, you know, Five minutes of watching the truck get closer. And so you go to the Kaza Prita wilderness area and it's along the Arizona, Mexico border and you know what the border's like. So, so, you know, it's, there's a lot of, of, you know, human trafficking and drug smuggling going on there. Yeah. And as, as well as immigration going on there and, and people coming across the border illegally and all this stuff. And so there was actually a sign when you drive in there that says danger, human smuggling, drug smuggling, do not travel alone. Okay. So I still go 'cause I'm with Charlie. Right. So I'm cool, but so I, I, you know it, but this, I got a picture of the science. It was kind of interesting.

4 (2h 58m 29s):
But it's also,

3 (2h 58m 30s):
Is that sign on your Instagram?

4 (2h 58m 33s):
Probably is, yeah, for sure it is. Yeah. If you scroll back to, you scroll back to whatever that was three years ago. Yeah, I wanna say that. Yeah. Yeah. And so yeah, danger, human smuggling, drug smuggling, do not travel alone. Right. So I Of course stupidly go out there and I'm camping out there for a week. But then you haven't seen anybody for five days, you know, and you're out there making videos and making, you know, ambient music, you know, drinking beer. I have a fridge in there. I had a nice fridge in the van too. So I got beer, I got, you know, some whiskey. I'm just having a good time out there, you know, making music by myself and streaming on like some, not always, but sometimes you'd have like internet, you know, so you'd stream, you know, that was sort of a connection with the world, you know, streaming live from the middle of fucking nowhere.

4 (2h 59m 17s):
The world's so crazy now. And making beats in the middle of nowhere. But yeah. So that was, that was, you know, this moment where you're going like, oh, maybe I should shouldn't be here by myself. And and that was actually when I, that was actually what that moment was actually what kind of, I actually tell the story when I do standup. So I'm trying not to make it a bit here. 'cause sometimes, you know, you, I don't wanna do my bit, but like I, I do kind of incorporate it into my standup sometimes. 'cause it's, I tell stories about this stuff, but I ended up, it was what in, in sort of spawned I mean I went back, that's, I went back to LA and I bought a gun the next day.

4 (2h 59m 58s):
I'd never owned a, I didn't, hadn't owned a gun since I was 21 years old. I had a 22 when I was like 20 or 24 years old. I had 22. Hadn't owned a gun the whole time I was in la but I was going out in the desert by myself, feeling vulnerable by myself out there. Yeah. So I went back to LA and I went to

3 (3h 0m 15s):
Especially to see four dudes with rifles.

4 (3h 0m 17s):
Yeah. Staring at you. Yeah. And so then I went back. Yeah, there it is.

3 (3h 0m 19s):
Yeah. Caution. Illegal entry. Yeah. And drug smuggling activities are common within the refuge. Be aware of your surroundings, not travel alone or approach suspicious people or activities. Holy shit.

4 (3h 0m 30s):
Yeah. Us Fish and Wildlife Service, this is probably Department of the Interior. It's probably Bureau of Land Management Land is a lot of the land out there too. That's

3 (3h 0m 37s):
So scary.

4 (3h 0m 39s):
And you realize how big it is. Like, you know, it's one thing, you know, you hear about, you know, in this close to the cities where there's happening going. But when you go to these remote areas Right. And you're just Yeah. That's, that's it. That was it. That was, that was that, that was the week I was there. That was right when that happened.

3 (3h 0m 52s):
There's just nothing out there, huh?

4 (3h 0m 54s):
Yeah. So I went back to Burbank, went down to Guns Plus and picked up a 3 57 Magnum and Benelli Montefeltro silver shotgun and got my hunting license and went quail hunting.

3 (3h 1m 4s):
Why would you get a 3 57 Magnum I six shots?

4 (3h 1m 9s):
I, I got the seven shot. Oh nice. Yeah. 'cause I thought that would be better to have one more. No, honestly, I just, I honestly didn't really actually

3 (3h 1m 20s):
Think about

4 (3h 1m 21s):
It. No I didn't. No, I did think about it. I just, I didn't honestly think that I would ever have to use it to be honest with you. I just liked that gun. Oh. I just think it's a beautiful looking gun. Well,

3 (3h 1m 28s):
It's better to have that gun than no gun. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (3h 1m 31s):
And I also thought, honestly though the, the, actually have another answer to you. 'cause I was going to lots of places with bears and so I figured it would be good protection for bears too. 'cause I was going up into like the, you know, places in New Mexico where there's bears and I would go hiking by myself and you know, I don't want to lug a shotgun around with you all the time, so. Right. You know, I'd, I'd, I'd sometimes bring that, you know, in Arizona and stuff and that's smart. But but also I mean, you know, it's honestly just kind of I know. It's just beautiful gun.

3 (3h 2m 0s):
It is, yes.

4 (3h 2m 1s):
It's,

3 (3h 2m 2s):
It's a classic. Yeah. I

4 (3h 2m 3s):
I like that. I love that gun. Something

3 (3h 2m 5s):
About a revolver too.

4 (3h 2m 6s):
Yeah.

3 (3h 2m 7s):
Watch that wheel spin old timey style. Yeah,

4 (3h 2m 11s):
Absolutely. And there was sort of a, a sense of being out there on the, on the range. You know, if I, I like classic looking guns. Like I've, now I have lever action. I've been collecting

3 (3h 2m 23s):
Henry Rifle.

4 (3h 2m 24s):
I have a, I have a new Henry 22. I've got a couple vintage. I've got a, just picked up a, like, I, I like getting sort of vintage. I've just have five or six rifles and I've just sort of found myself quite interested in it. You know, like a, I've got an old Savage 99, you know, 1970s, 3 0 8, you know, it's like the wood, you know the old guns. Oh, the wood on it, you know, it feels like real. And it's all the newer stuff is more, you know, plastic and stuff.

3 (3h 2m 51s):
A lot of carbon fiber. Yeah.

4 (3h 2m 52s):
Yeah. So I like em as wood. Real, real. And, you know, we

3 (3h 2m 55s):
Gotta get you hunting up there.

4 (3h 2m 56s):
I I, I would love to go get your

3 (3h 2m 57s):
Own food.

4 (3h 2m 58s):
I would love to go at some point with somebody that knows what they're doing. I live some friends that really wanna take me out next year, so. Oh,

3 (3h 3m 3s):
Go with them. Yeah. Local guys. Yeah, do it

4 (3h 3m 6s):
Local guys. Yeah. Yeah.

3 (3h 3m 7s):
I bet you have a shit ton of deer up there. Dude.

4 (3h 3m 9s):
There's a lot of deer at my place. Yeah. Yeah. You can see them. You can see them on my, the trail cam video with the, with the

3 (3h 3m 14s):
W shoot. One deer. You eat it for three months. Yeah, yeah.

4 (3h 3m 17s):
Fill the freezer. Think about that. Fill the freezer

3 (3h 3m 18s):
With it. One deer. Yeah. You're eating it for months, you know, shoot elk six months. I, I

4 (3h 3m 24s):
See your elk on Instagram and I go, man, that looks

3 (3h 3m 26s):
Good. So much meat. Yeah. So good too. So good for you. I give it away. Yeah. I give away to a lot of my friends. Yeah, it looks good. Such a good thing to have.

4 (3h 3m 33s):
There's not a lot of elk near me. There are, there are in, there are elk, but like, they're rare. Like you don't see them in Ontario that much. Do you hear

3 (3h 3m 40s):
'em? Do you hear 'em ever in the, like in the

4 (3h 3m 42s):
September time? Moose. Moose, you hear?

3 (3h 3m 43s):
Yeah.

4 (3h 3m 44s):
Yeah. I, I've seen a moose once near my place, but, but, but deer all the time. They're everywhere.

3 (3h 3m 49s):
Well listen, Tom Green, I'm super excited that you're at the comedy club. The comedy mothership this weekend. Honor

4 (3h 3m 55s):
To be there man. Honor

3 (3h 3m 56s):
To be there. Dude, it's always good to hang out out with you and talk to you and I, I can't thank you enough because be being on your show in 2007 really was a big part of the inspiration to do this. and it was, I would say you were a pioneer man. You were, you were out, you had figured it out before anybody. You had a full internet talk show running from your house. And when you had me as a guest on it changed the course of my life. 'cause it really did. 'cause it really was like, I remember like light bulbs just going off my head like, why don't I do this? Why don't I do, I didn't have the money to do this. You know, so I you do the laptop. Yeah. It was like the idea came out of you, man.

4 (3h 4m 33s):
Well I just think it's the coolest thing that you, you, you know, shout that out and, and, and say that to me and you know, because I I, I appreciate it because it's like, it was when you came to do the show, I was stoked that you were coming to do the show. You know, that was, you know, I'm doing my little web show and you came up and did the show. I was, you know, that

3 (3h 4m 51s):
We had done a couple things already, right? Yeah. Like we did that celebrity pool show, remember that? Yeah.

4 (3h 4m 57s):
That was just kind of a one of those

3 (3h 4m 59s):
That was fun.

4 (3h 5m 0s):
Yeah, that was fun. Yeah.

3 (3h 5m 2s):
And we did, we done a bunch of stuff. Yeah. I'd always seen year round, but, so there it is. Yeah bro. It was like 2007. Yeah. We were drinking beer. I was like, this guy's got it nailed. Yep. We're on the internet. This is incredible. I was so happy. I was like, this is how to do it. Look how bad the video was back then. Yeah. The kid who was drinking with us online,

4 (3h 5m 20s):
You know what was fun about that is like, so that's Skype. We're taking calls on Skype and so we kinda, I had some real good guys working, working for me. I had a, you know, I had my Jamie there. It was like really?

3 (3h 5m 33s):
You didn't, you never had a Jamie bitch. Yeah,

4 (3h 5m 35s):
Yeah. He was sort of, we were trying, we were trying to build stuff, you know, so, you know, you guys had

3 (3h 5m 40s):
A whole server room. I remember walking into your server room going, this is crazy. I feel like I'm at like some big corporation with all these lights are going off and I'm like, Thomas is wild.

4 (3h 5m 50s):
So there's a microwave antenna on the roof of the house. So that was the way we were able to stream. 'cause back then you had to get like bonded T one lines or something like that. Yeah. Which were expensive, right? I had a little bit of monetization. Not much, but a But you

3 (3h 6m 2s):
Were working with a company outta Denver. Yeah, yeah.

4 (3h 6m 4s):
Then they were, they were kind of the first people that I saw streaming. So I was like, how does that work? So I called them and then, so we had a little, like a very small budget, but enough to get 'em, whatever

3 (3h 6m 12s):
Happened to those guys.

4 (3h 6m 13s):
They just kinda, I'm not sure actually don don't know. I'm not sure. But they, they were, they were interesting guys and, and so I basically started with them and then I went off on my own and well

3 (3h 6m 22s):
Listen, I'm glad you're gonna do another one. 'cause you're a very compelling and interesting person and you always have a really good perspective and you've led a fucking wild ass life and, and I appreciate you. Thank you. So thanks for being here brother. Yeah, thanks Joe man. Thank you. And I think the shows are all sold out this weekend, so Yeah. Unbelievable. Tough shit motherfuckers. But sometimes even if the club does sell out, we have a sign, like a neon sign, there's tickets available. Now what happens is sometimes people can't make it. Babysitter cancels, who knows. But every now and then, even on sold out shows there's tickets available. So if you go to the box office, maybe get lucky. Okay, thank you everybody. Thank you. Tom. Green, you're the fucking man. Oh, Instagram, what is it? Is it just Tom Green?

3 (3h 7m 2s):
Yeah, Tom Green Live. What is it?

4 (3h 7m 4s):
Yeah, go check on my YouTube channel. YouTube slash Tom Green put a lot of stuff up on there now, which is kind of a little, and then Tom Green on Instagram, Tom Green live on Twitter and X and yeah, all that's all the spots. TikTok and I'm shooting a special, actually I'm shooting a special for Amazon Prime Standup special. Nice. And where are you doing that at? Where are you filming? Me? Well, I'm going to, I'm gonna do, I'm gonna shoot it in Ottawa, but I'm also doing a tour in April. So I'm going through, I'm gonna be in Cleveland, I'm gonna be in Lexington, Kentucky. Louisville, beautiful Detroit all over. Beautiful from Michigan, you know, helium in Philly and Nice. A lot of the spots. So you can go check up my tour. Nice, nice. And I'm gonna film the whole tour two and I'm gonna kind of cut it together into a bunch of nice standup, beautiful montage. So yeah.

3 (3h 7m 44s):
Thanks Joe. Well I'm excited. I'm excited to see this weekend. Okay. That's it. Goodbye. Thank

0 (3h 7m 49s):
You.