0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out. The. Joe Rogan. Experience

1 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night. All day

2 (13s):
Shoot sir.

3 (19s):
What is that? Black

2 (20s):
Rifle. Black rifle? Yeah. Oh yeah. We're up Chris. What's up baby? How are

3 (23s):
You? Good to see you man.

2 (24s):
So how long have you been in Texas now?

3 (26s):
Two years.

2 (26s):
Wow. Do you feel like this is where you live or do you like everything?

3 (30s):
This feels like home. Really? Yeah. Wow. Yeah. I went back home for Christmas in the UK and it's so strange to go back to a place that you know so well you're super familiar with, but you are kind of different and everything's changed, but everything's the same. And you fall back into old patterns. You remember that tree that you used to walk past on your morning walk and all of, it's very disquiet, but it's fun. It's nice.

2 (52s):
The oddest thing for me is the contrast and the amount of freedom you have for things that you would never think were important. Like these little nicotine things. In California, you can't buy this because it's flavored. In California, you can put a tent in front of people's houses and fucking cook meth and no one says anything. No one does anything. You could commit violent crime and you get arrested and released with no bail. They never find you again. There's the, there's the laws are so ridiculous, but you are not allowed to have flavored nicotine.

2 (1m 31s):
Flavored nicotine is dangerous. Chris. They're

3 (1m 34s):
Trying to ban flavored vapes in the UK very aggressively, super aggressively. It's like that's the big deal. That being said, I think it's like some non insignificant percentage of school children are using vapes. It's very addictive. There's a no vapes sign. Yeah. In schools like, like that wasn't something that was already self-evident. Well,

2 (1m 55s):
Cigarettes were a big deal when I was in high school. You know, a lot of kids smoke cigarettes. It was a cool kids thing to do.

3 (2m 3s):
What's the smoking age in America?

2 (2m 4s):
I think it's 18. Yep. 18. Legally. Yeah. Legally. Yeah. It's 18. But when I was a kid, people got cigarettes. Someone got you cigarettes. don don't know. When I was young, I remember before I turned to 18, they changed the legal drinking age. 'cause the legal drinking age, I believe used to be 18 and then they bumped it up to 21. I was like damnit

3 (2m 23s):
Dude. Have you ever seen the video of when DUIs came in in the 1980s? Yes. And they're interviewing people in cars. Yeah, that is one of my favorite videos of all time. Please, Jamie. Let me watch that video again. Yeah,

2 (2m 37s):
The lady's like what? We're gonna bring in communism.

3 (2m 41s):
Dunno what the world's coming to. Main

2 (2m 43s):
Can where gone. And she's got her kid. Yeah, she's

3 (2m 45s):
Got a baby in the passenger seat.

2 (2m 47s):
No seatbelt.

3 (2m 49s):
Oh my

2 (2m 49s):
Gosh. And even who did have a seatbelt? There's no airbags. Those things are death traps.

3 (2m 52s):
It's one of my favorite videos. There's this weird, there's something I've noticed since being in America, your guys' relationship with drink driving is a little bit more lax than it is in the uk. Really? Yeah. The

2 (3m 4s):
Numbers not in Texas. If you, if you have any alcohol in your system at all, they'll arrest you. Like if you, if you get pulled over and they said, have you had anything to drink? And you say, yes, I have had one drink. You're getting, you're getting

3 (3m 16s):
Arrested. I fucking love this video. Drink

4 (3m 17s):
Drinking and driving here is viewed by some as downright undemocratic.

5 (3m 21s):
It's kind of getting common this, when a fellow can't put in a hard day's work, put in 11, 12 hours a day and then get in your truck and the lease ring one or two beers.

2 (3m 29s):
They're making it

3 (3m 30s):
Lost. Look at the tv. Can't

6 (3m 32s):
When you want to, you can't. You have to wear a seat belt when you're driving

2 (3m 36s):
And yeah, she's wearing a seatbelt. It looks like the baby communist country. I say baby

3 (3m 40s):
Communist

2 (3m 40s):
Country baby is more protected than I thought it was. It had that thing in front of it. Yeah. Yeah. That little cushion in front of it. So it seems like she was like a little bit more,

3 (3m 47s):
The funniest thing about that is say

2 (3m 48s):
That thing,

3 (3m 48s):
Their issue is it's not, with not being allowed to drink, then drive des is one worse it's drink and drive Right At the time. You mean I can't drink and time. Yeah, exactly.

2 (3m 58s):
Constantly.

3 (4m 0s):
Dude, I love that video. Oh my God.

2 (4m 4s):
Yeah. You definitely shouldn't drink and drive. That's true. But also You don't really want people telling you what you can and can't do. And once they start doing it with anything, bill, well, You don bring in communism. Pretty saying. See it's cartoonish. It's very cartoonish when they're saying that it's very ridiculous. But kind of they have a point that this is the only point. If you let someone tell you what you can't do, they're gonna expand that power of telling you what you can't do. Yeah.

3 (4m 31s):
Always. One of the problems is that puts

2 (4m 36s):
Sobriety was somehow not fitting with the American way. What measuring, oh fuck is this

3 (4m 40s):
Measuring

2 (4m 41s):
Sobriety. Okay, hold on a second. Okay. During the 1950s, the American public and the judicial system were still erring on the side of the drunk driver. Oddly enough, some people were concerned with the mechanization of measuring sobriety was somehow not fitting with the American Way. Kind of isn't. It kind of isn't. But also you shouldn't drink and drive like both things are true. We should like teach people that. You should never fucking do that. The the, I went to high school with a kid. I, he was a good guy. I, I knew him from the time I was like 14. And then when I guess a senior in high school, he was drunk and he crashed his car and killed his friend. and I remember running into him on the street.

2 (5m 21s):
We were both walking and I walked by him and he, he just had his head down. And you know, I wasn't good friends with him, but I was friends with him. I always said hi to him. I said hi to him. I said, Hey man, how you doing? He's like me. He was done. He was done. His life was over, man. He wasn't, he wasn't, you know, a regular kid anymore. He was a kid who killed his friend in a drunk driving accident. It was, it was a different human like his life. He was this one guy. He was a good normal guy, fun guy. People liked him. He was a friendly guy. And then all of a sudden a pariah, all of a sudden, everyone knows what you did. All of a sudden what you did, you can't believe you did this horrible, horrible, horrible thing.

2 (6m 3s):
And you did it when you were so young. I'm a kid, you're sad. He was 16, 17, whatever he was, he didn't know what he was doing. He had no idea. Nobody. No, you're so stupid. When you're that young, your brain's not formed yet. And you can't treat them like they're adults. You just can't. They're not adults. You know, you're talking about a 16-year-old kid, a 15-year-old kid. Like, fuck what, when they're doing things, they don't even know what's real I mean. And it's all completely dependent upon how they were raised. Like you could get really lucky and have solid parents and really have like a good understanding of how to behave in the world. Or you could get fucked and you got some, dad beats the shit outta you and he's always on meth and your mother's a fucking liar and she steals money and she, she sells people stuff.

2 (6m 54s):
You know, that's, that could be your reality too. And to expect a person like that to behave exactly the way you do with your nice life is crazy. It's crazy. And it's one of the weirder things that we do. And instead of, instead of looking at the origins of what are, what are the origins of horrible behavior, it's all terrible childhoods. It's almost all terrible childhoods. Instead of looking at that, all we look at is a crime. It's very strange. It's a weird thing. It's like to know logically that you just have to take a few extra steps and you say, well what's the root of this problem? And how do we address that? How do we make it better? We have so much money for other things.

2 (7m 35s):
We don't have any money for that. That seems like one of the most fundamental problems any country would face is the amount of people that grow up, that become violent criminals. Because they were fucked from the time they were young. They had no shot at life. Their whole childhood was just violence and chaos. And that's not a insignificant number of people in this country. And yet any foreign conflict has to be addressed with the utmost urgency. When the things that are paramount to our daily existence right here with what our tax dollars pay for right here are just completely ignored, completely ignored, never discussed.

2 (8m 22s):
They'll talk to you about climate change. Climate change. Lemme tell you something. If you live in the south side of Chicago and you get shot, climate change doesn't mean jack shit to you. Okay? We should address, we should address what the fuck is going on right now. Not, not climate change.

3 (8m 36s):
Do you know what the ideas of luxury beliefs are? You heard of this? No. So it's been re popularized by my friend Rob Henderson. So luxury beliefs are ideas held by the upper classes that confer status on them, but often cause costs for the lower class. So the seminal example of this is defund the police. Yeah. I walk past the house in Austin not far from where I live. That has a defund the police flag in the garden out front and a private security sticker in the front window.

2 (9m 15s):
It's so stupid. It's such a virtue, you know? Do you know Will stor?

3 (9m 20s):
Of course he's been on my show. I was, I went for breakfast with him yesterday. He's

2 (9m 23s):
Great. And he's fantastic. Of course you don't, will Stor who wrote that book, the status game was explaining all this and how, what people are doing, what they're actually doing,

3 (9m 32s):
He's outstanding. So, so good. There's a,

2 (9m 35s):
It relates it to so many behavior patterns in life. It's just like, oh my God, this all makes sense.

3 (9m 39s):
He's a legend of storytelling. He's one of the best writers in the uk and yeah, there's this really interesting example of my friend Mary Harrington talks about how the death of chivalry has caused an increase in domestic violence. So it's very interesting. So this is a good example of this luxury beliefs thing. So yes, during the 1960s and seventies, if you were an upper class lady and the guys that you were dating were from households that had two parents that had taught them how you're supposed to treat people and they weren't mistreated and all the rest of it, they grew up like a well balanced person to them it might seem a little bit patronizing for the guy to hold the door for you. Right? Or to pull the chair out or to make sure that you get home.

3 (10m 19s):
Okay. Yeah. 'cause you live in existence in which the danger of that not happening, not going appropriately. Isn't that great. Now what wasn't understood by a lot of the upper class feminists that were talking about this derogation of chivalry that they wanted was that that doesn't necessarily work for the working class or the underclass woman who is dating a man whose father beat him or stepfather beat him or didn't have a father, or was homeless or addicted to drugs or in violent crime. And she thinks it's a direct line, a single spectrum from you should hold the door open for women to, you shouldn't beat your wife. and I think that it's true, women should be seen as something that requires additional protection that are precious and, and should be respected if you delegate the stuff up here.

3 (11m 4s):
Sure. Maybe it means that you liberate some of the working, the upper class women to be able to go and do whatever they want. But what does this cause downstream when you don't have those guardrails in place for the men that the lower class women are dating?

2 (11m 16s):
Yeah, well just all men, period. and it should be, and it's, here's the thing that it, this is how it's looked upon in the martial arts world. If I know that I can fuck you up and I fuck you up, I'm probably a bad person. It's never good that a guy who is like some trained killer goes after some regular guy, picks a fight with him and fucks him up. It's never thought of as good. It's always negative, like almost entirely negative. Like the entire fan base will recognize that terrible behavior. So if you are a man and you have someone who is your wife and she's smaller than you and female, you have the craziest advantage.

2 (12m 7s):
Physically, it's the most awful tyranny physically if violence is involved, if you decide that you're gonna start swinging and teaching people lessons and, and then lying to police about how someone got hurt and oh, she fell down the stairs. And if you grow up seeing that, that's even maybe more fucked up. 'cause that's your model for what? And that's probably what their model was when they were growing up. But it's, as men, we have to look at that as the weakest of most disgusting behaviors, including beating up on people that are weak.

3 (12m 48s):
Well, that's the reason for the male monkey dance as it's called. The reason for that is that it's rivalry between two potentially matched males and we don't know who's going to win. Yeah. That's the reason for the conflict. Yeah. If there's a huge disparity, what's the point for the conflict? You already know who's going to win. Right? Right. That's why beating up a 70-year-old guy or a 10-year-old boy isn't a big deal. But if you're a 21-year-old dude that's about this, this is exactly why you have weight classes, right? Yeah. It's to create this degree of intrigue and fairness in the rivalry.

2 (13m 23s):
100%. 100%. Yeah. If a heavyweight beat up on a bantam weight, everyone would be furious. But that's what like a lot of men are, and a lot of women are. It's, it's crazy. If that happened in the male martial arts world, people would be furious. It's just, it's just fucking ha It's horrible. And it's just, it's, it's weird that it's always been a part of like cinema, there's always been scenes like James Cagney smacks a girl in the face and, and, and there was one, God, I wish I could remember the movie, it was so crazy. But the, the, it was like a 1950s movie. The dad was spanking the, the, the wife spanking her, like had her over his knee.

2 (14m 6s):
And the young girl was saying that that's how he shows mommy that he loves her. God, you remember that movie Jamie I know We played it. It was insane. I was like this insane scene from a movie where you're like, what,

3 (14m 23s):
What the fuck am I watching? But

2 (14m 25s):
It's, it's a time capsule into this evolving understanding of how human beings interact with each other. That's what it is. And it's a time capsule from less than a hundred years ago.

3 (14m 34s):
What was that? Super famous. Is this Shirley Temple?

2 (14m 37s):
Yes. Yes. It's Shirley Temple. That's what it, bro,

8 (14m 40s):
Thank mama your darn toot and I did. That means you love her. That's what I've been trying to tell her.

3 (14m 50s):
Oh my God,

2 (14m 52s):
Dude, you're darn tootin.

3 (14m 55s):
Darn tootin. I am.

2 (14m 56s):
The guy's got someone over,

3 (14m 59s):
Over

2 (14m 59s):
His knee, someone's daughter over his knee and he's spanking her into submission, spanking her. That teacher spanking her. That means you love her. Shirley Temple says, Shirley Temple is like the propagandist. She was like a young propagandist.

9 (15m 13s):
Tell if that's actually her. I'm trying to type it in. It's

2 (15m 15s):
Not, it's not her purpose. Her,

9 (15m 16s):
So it might be

2 (15m 16s):
Someone else. How many of them were there? How many of them young, famous girl actors were there? How many of them came out great? Zero.

3 (15m 24s):
It's a mixed bag. Britney Spears is a work in progress.

2 (15m 30s):
I do not think children should be developing in front of the world. I think that's an insane amount of pressure. I think becoming famous in front of the world is an insane amount of pressure becoming a child. And as you're growing up, you're in front of the world. That's not manageable like that. You're, no one's designed like that, you're gonna blow the hardware.

3 (15m 49s):
I had this idea about, we always hear the problems of child stars, Macaulay Culkin, Britney Spears. Yeah. Too much fame, too young. and I don't disagree that thinking about, oh my God, this person's basically never known the world without adoration and attention and focus and scrutiny and all that stuff.

2 (16m 6s):
Right.

3 (16m 6s):
But there's a really interesting question about what happens if you are a, you know, let's say for example, Canadian psychologist who's been working away in the dusty annals of some university for

2 (16m 17s):
A while. Yes. Well,

3 (16m 19s):
And out of nowhere you get thrust into the limelight and then this bold MMA commentator plucks you out of obscurity. And now you are one of the most talked about people on the planet. Yeah. The interesting thing here is, as the child, yes. You didn't know what the world was like before. I understand that can be disquieting, but what about when you had a sense of self, right? What about when you thought you knew who you were and your place in the world and your place in the state is hierarchy as will would stay? Yeah. What about that? And then you just get ripped from your moorings and you're just out in space and the ISS is going past you and you are,

2 (16m 54s):
You're certainly gonna make some mistakes. There's no way around it. You've never managed those waters before. If you just get in a, a raft for the first time and you're going down whitewater to navigate, you're probably gonna fall in. Like, you're probably not good at this

3 (17m 7s):
If the acceleration is quick as well. Yeah.

2 (17m 9s):
If you, you're in a kayak and you know you're hitting rocks, you're probably gonna fall in. You don't know what the fuck you're doing. But once you figure out what you're doing, then you can kind of achieve some sort of level of balance. But for him, I think a lot of it was exacerbated by the benzodiazepine thing. So he was taking anti-anxiety medication. He didn't understand when it was prescribed to him, how addictive it was and what the consequences were of getting off of it. And he talks about it a lot. and I think he was sick for over a year.

3 (17m 41s):
I'm pretty sure that you, there's a number of psychiatrists that are hesitant about prescribing that for more than a couple of days. And Jordan was on it for months and months and months. It

2 (17m 50s):
Seems like even for a couple of days, you're like, you're just kissing death. Yeah. I just wanna kiss you death.

3 (17m 56s):
Have you seen, have you seen the Instagram account mug shorties?

2 (18m 0s):
No.

3 (18m 1s):
Oh,

2 (18m 2s):
What

3 (18m 2s):
Is it? My god. This is one of the greatest things on the internet. I can't believe I get to teach you about mug shorties. Oh boy. Come on Jmo. Let's do this. Yeah,

9 (18m 10s):
This is a fun account.

3 (18m 11s):
So it's images, mugshots of goals that have been taken in to, for questioning. So it'll say in the top, in the de in the description what they've been charged for. Look at the, look at the, the comment below.

2 (18m 28s):
She could drive me while intoxicated.

3 (18m 30s):
Your Honor. We're under her influence.

2 (18m 33s):
Her eyes are intoxicating. You're

3 (18m 35s):
On her eyes, your Honor. Think you've been drinking. Keep going.

2 (18m 38s):
Oh my God. It's amazing. They're very funny. There's my Valentine. Oh, so they're all funny comments. Oh yeah, yeah. Oh, that's great. Bunch

9 (18m 47s):
Of thirsty dudes that are just like, I'll fucking,

2 (18m 49s):
Yeah. But they seem to be making funny jokes.

3 (18m 51s):
Consensual.

2 (18m 52s):
They're all to be be funny though. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. That's fun. What is it called? Mug? Mug mugs. Shadys. S-H-A-W-T-Y-S. Shorty

9 (19m 3s):
Bas

3 (19m 4s):
OW I don. Possession of Marijuana and Possession of Paraphernalia. It was my weed officer. There's another one. It was like possession of cocaine and someone replied and said it was medicinal.

2 (19m 17s):
My face, ID doesn't wanna believe that it's me with this headphone on. It's odd. I would think that, you know, that would be like a really good place to test jokes, you know, as a comic, like Yeah. With mugshots. It's like a really fun exercise just to try to find, come up with

3 (19m 34s):
Funny. Can I come, can I come? Yeah. You've got the way that they look and you've got a short description about the caption.

2 (19m 39s):
You know, who would excel at that is Tony Hinchcliffe. Tony Hinchcliffe would excel

3 (19m 44s):
At that. Mr. Roast.

2 (19m 45s):
He's the best at that. There's no one better. There's no one better at like, finding something funny about some horrible aspect of what just happened.

3 (19m 53s):
Jimmy Carl's pretty good. Yes.

2 (19m 55s):
Yes. He's very good at it. Yeah. The two of them could duke it out. It'd be a lot of fun. I think they might have done like a roast battle. They have Ha they That's right, they have on tv.

3 (20m 6s):
Wow. That would be like a unstoppable object and an immovable force.

2 (20m 10s):
Tony comes up with them, they're so fast. You can't believe they're not scripted. Like his brain just, oh, but it's that, it's like that 24 7, like in the green room. He's always like, got puns for everything. It's just, I don't, his mind just works in a really weird joke right away.

3 (20m 25s):
But Mark Norman's the same, right? Oh yeah. He just can't not do

2 (20m 28s):
It. Oh, yeah. Cannot do it. Very similar. Very I mean mark's even more extreme.

3 (20m 32s):
Yeah. It's unrelenting with him. Fucking hell

2 (20m 34s):
Mark. Can't he, like, if he gets panicky, if we're talking about something weird, like he'll, he, he goes, I think they're gonna think it's boring because like his attentions span is like, it's so short. Like, don don't think he ever watches documentaries. I he I know. It's just, I was, he's always going.

3 (20m 51s):
I think I, I texted him a stat about 77% of 18 to 24 year olds in the US are ineligible to join the military because of being overweight or mental or drug problems. And he just replied with meal team six.

2 (21m 12s):
That's him 24 7. That's just how his brain works. He's so good at it. So good at it. It's a mar it's a marvel of personality. Like when, when we do protect our parks, he's just like this. He's like the, he's like a, a special, you know, like you have, if you are gonna make a really good stew, it's not just meat, you know, you want carrots in there, you want potatoes, you want spices. Like he's a critical spice.

3 (21m 35s):
He's a big carrot.

2 (21m 36s):
He's something that's very important to that recipe being delicious. Like fucking

3 (21m 41s):
Phenomenal. Dude.

2 (21m 42s):
He's such a good guy too.

3 (21m 43s):
There's this idea about in blackout Rowan Atkinson, this famous British comedy, he was saying, you know your bits, don't you? One of the actors says to him, and he says, this is different, it's spontaneous and it's called wit and I just always stuck in my mind that there's a difference between having prepared and well constructed stuff in advance. Yes. And then being able to, no matter what it is, whether it's insights, whether it's debate, whether it's argumentation, whether it's analysis, all of those things. The ability for someone to just turn it on like that. Yeah. The

2 (22m 16s):
Verbal sparring aspect of it. Some people don't like that. And then there's some comics that aren't, aren't really good at that. They're not good at like dealing with audience members or anything like that. They're not good at answering questions, but they, they're good at like long takes on things where they sit alone in contemplation and go over some ironic aspect of a topic. And then they write out really good material about it. It's still super valid. It's like there's no one that's better than the other. But it's, there's different personalities that get attracted to the idea of constructing a standup comedy routine. And for some personalities, they're not like a conflict personality or Yeah, well, you're a this, they're not that guy or that girl.

2 (22m 59s):
They're someone who gets some subject bothers them, whatever it is, climate change, whatever it is. And they just sit on it and they're like, what? And then they'll be alone. They'll be in front of the computer, they'll get a notebook out. They just sit on it for fucking days sometimes bounce it around back and forth, twist it around, start it from this way, start it from, start it from the back, back it up. Go from the conclusion first, and then explain your conclusion in a hilarious way. See if it works better that way. And you, you'll, you'll do that. And then that type of comic, like that mindset can create great bits. They're great comics, but they just don't like to do the audience thing.

2 (23m 40s):
But that's okay too. It's like you can't ask someone to change their personality. But Tony is like, he's a razor tongue man. If you talk shit to Tony, he's gonna, he's he's gonna fuck you up if

3 (23m 53s):
Dancing with death.

2 (23m 54s):
Yeah. I mean he's, and he's not physically imposing whatsoever. So it makes it even more brutal when he comes after you. The

3 (24m 0s):
Same as Michael Malice. Yes, exactly. But Michael wants told me, he said, I couldn't get away with half of the shit that I say if I wasn't five foot seven.

2 (24m 7s):
Yeah, it helps. It certainly helps. It helps to be a Yeah, like someone who you can't hit because they're, they're weaker than you. Yeah. But Tony walks that fucking line. Woo.

3 (24m 18s):
Whitney was telling me before, I did a little tour toward the back end of last year, which was pretty interesting. and I was saying, what should I expect? He says, expect to get a bit more boring as it goes on. It's like, what do you mean? He said, well, in order for art to imitate life, you have to live a life. And the problem is, if you're on the road, all you know are airports and hotels and dinners and shows, and that's it. And she was saying that she was in a Hollywood script writers meeting, and they were saying, it's a Saturday morning, where is she? And someone shouted from the back, she's in a baby shower. And Whitney was like, who goes to a baby shower? All right, she's doing a wine tasting. She's like, no one goes to a wine tasting. And the room turned and apparently said, no, Whitney, you don't like, other normal people do that.

3 (25m 2s):
Right. So you've got this vicious trap of success. It must happen with musicians as well. Yes. Like how are you supposed to, you know, if you are some heartfelt singer talking about your makeups and breakups of relationships, and now you're dealing with the fear of me too, that doesn't exactly give sort of beautiful romance around what you're talking about. The same thing goes for comedians. Same thing goes for anything. Like the whole point of what you're trying to do is be representation, be representative for the normal person. Yes. And the more that your life becomes strange and rarefied and on the road, the less of that you get to experience. Which is less inspiration for the art.

2 (25m 39s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's a matter of like, what are you doing when you're on the road? Are you on the road just to make money? Because then you just have to just treat it as a very fortunate job. And you definitely are not gonna get the same kind of life experience. You're not, you're just not, you're gonna be traveling all the time and you're gonna be staying in hotels. You're gonna be doing gigs most of your time. You'd be thinking about doing the material that you prepared and getting your set together. But you could still take stuff in if you choose to. You know, you can go to cities and check out museums. You can go to cities and you know, go on a tour of the town. You just have to be proactive. And you could watch documentaries.

2 (26m 19s):
Like, I like to watch documentaries on the road. I try to educate myself more on the road than watching something just, just entertaining. So, look, I'm on the road, I'm supposed to be doing standup, I'm awake, I lemme watch something on Nepal. You know what I mean? Like, let me, let me, let me get in interested in something like let me get my mind stimulated with something other than just performing and traveling. Yeah. But you have to choose to, it's like you have to choose to go to the gym. Like when I, everyone's like, how's the jet lag? I go, you just gotta kill it. It's just like a thing you have to do. It's like jumping in the cold water. Like it sucks. But if you do it, you'll feel better. You gotta go right to the gym. Like the moment you land, plane lands, checking your hotel, gym right away.

2 (27m 3s):
No. If ands or butts go to the fucking gym or do a hotel workout, you could do a great body weight workout. You could do a yoga routine.

3 (27m 11s):
Staying in hotels with gyms is the easiest hack. It's nice for

2 (27m 14s):
That. Oh, it's so nice. If you go to a hotel and they have kettlebells, like, oh my god, this is amazing. Game over. Yeah, this is amazing. And so you just get a nice workout in really fucking exert your body, get that sweat going, get your heart rate up and you'll settle in all that jet lag shit. It's nonsense. It all goes away. Even when you travel, when I go to overseas, it's like just, just fucking workout one day really hard. And then it seems like pretty

3 (27m 36s):
Much resets everything.

2 (27m 37s):
Resets everything. It's like, it is like a threshold. You wanna like really sweat, like really get something, like push it a little bit. So you're like, all right, now we're back. Just whoop

3 (27m 47s):
Normality.

2 (27m 48s):
Yeah, total normality. And then also you gotta make sure you're hydrated that tr plane travels just brutal thing in your body. It's, you're probably getting radioactive waves at a unhealthy level. Like those stewardess, you know, imagine

3 (28m 3s):
I'd love to see a study looking at the, what's happening to their telomeres, what's happening to their DNA, you know, with pilots and stewardesses and stuff.

2 (28m 10s):
Is there anything like that?

3 (28m 11s):
I have no idea. I'd love to know it though. There must be, someone must have done a longevity study on this. You

2 (28m 15s):
Gotta think when they first started doing that, like for all of human history, they didn't fly people in the air and then they first started doing that. They had no idea. What if it made 'em psychic? What if like, all those, all that radiation. What if it was like a comic book type deal? Like instead of, you know, instead of, you know, you get cancer, you get some crazy new power, they will come back in comic books. Everybody gets power. Nobody gets power in the real world.

3 (28m 42s):
Comic books. They'll come back down and they're green or they're invisible or they to see things.

2 (28m 45s):
Yeah, they

3 (28m 45s):
Can see things. They can turn you gay. They can see if you,

2 (28m 47s):
Oh Jesus. I think our government's trying that one. I, they could do basically whatever they want. They could see through walls. We can come up with all kinds of superpowers that they would get. But Ima But the idea is like, we really didn't know what radiation did for you. You know, that's what those, those terrible injuries that those women got that were using loom. Yep. The radioactive loom. What is that shit called again? Jamie Radium?

3 (29m 14s):
Radium.

2 (29m 15s):
Radium. The radium

3 (29m 15s):
Girls to make the watch faces

2 (29m 17s):
Light up so

3 (29m 18s):
Horrible. And they were having babies as well. They were pregnant and their kids had problems. They

2 (29m 22s):
Had holes in their faces, their faces rotted off. It was horrible.

3 (29m 26s):
I'm pretty sure. Didn't Mary Curie also have some problem like that as well? Like everybody that did research around radioactive substances early 19 hundreds just got fully, fully fucked.

2 (29m 36s):
Have you seen the, the hands of the ladies who used to test the x-ray machines? No. Oh, it's a horrible injury, man. Because back in the day before they knew that X-rays were dangerous. They had to make sure the X-ray machine worked in the office. So these ladies would put their hand in every day.

3 (29m 51s):
Oh. Before the patient came in every day. So they were getting a dose of one hand dose of every

2 (29m 55s):
Day.

3 (29m 55s):
And presumably, oh, was it always the same hand? You look

2 (29m 58s):
At the hand, it's fucking gross, man. It's just they, their hands got cancer. They just got hand cancer. Their hands are all shriveled

3 (30m 6s):
Up in

2 (30m 6s):
The hand. Fucked up. Yeah. Oh, that's an illustration of one. But there's photographs of one. That one up, up above the top row, the middle and the top. That's the one. Look at that dude. That's a lady who got too many X-rays. Oh my gosh. Just cooked her hand.

3 (30m 23s):
This hand showing damage from radiation exposure back in the 19 hundreds.

2 (30m 27s):
See, they didn't know. That's what I'm saying. Like they really didn't know what was gonna happen. Oh

3 (30m 31s):
Yeah,

2 (30m 31s):
Yeah. They would test that motherfucker. Look, that dude's hand cooked. They just saw

3 (30m 36s):
Light on the

2 (30m 36s):
Other side. Yeah. So he just test the hand.

3 (30m 39s):
See ya.

2 (30m 40s):
So this is the 19 hundreds, Jamie. That's what it says. Wow. 1865 to 1904 is when this

3 (30m 47s):
Worked with Thomas Edison. This

2 (30m 48s):
Guy lived a glass blower. Wow.

3 (30m 50s):
That's a dude. Clarence.

2 (30m 51s):
Oh. He would test X-ray tubes he made on his own hands and died after developing aggressive cancer. Aggressive

3 (30m 58s):
Cancer. Scary word. Had both of his arms amputated in an unsuccessful attempt to save his life.

2 (31m 3s):
Oh my God. Shortly after his death, Thomas Edison abandoned his research on x-rays. Oh. Shortly after.

3 (31m 9s):
Dude, I gotta teach you about this. The other guy,

2 (31m 11s):
The other guy's fucked too. It's two, there's two guys there. Everyone's direct. Yeah, yeah. What happened to that guy? Jesus Christ.

3 (31m 17s):
That's, he was saved by the beard. I've got a new man crush that I need to teach you about Uhoh. And he died 60 years ago. So it's, it's okay. I'm sorry. So Jamie can, I think this guy might have the best top paragraph, Wikipedia description in history. Can you just Google the un Killable soldier and you'll see a Wikipedia entry at the top.

2 (31m 39s):
Is this a real human,

3 (31m 40s):
Real human? When?

2 (31m 42s):
When did he live?

3 (31m 43s):
1880 until about 1960 or so. So he went through Oh, is he? He's Sisu. No. So Adrian Carto. So Adrian, no, in the beginning of the movie. That's what they, that's yeah, that's the legend.

2 (31m 54s):
Yeah. Maybe it's not a real guy, but, but Well, SISU is a Scandinavian movie, isn't it? No. What what?

3 (31m 58s):
It is a British guy. Is it good British? Is

2 (32m 1s):
It Swedish? What? Who made Sisu? Did you see Sisu? No,

3 (32m 4s):
Bro. What is it? It's amazing. What

2 (32m 6s):
Is it? It's John Wick and World War II is this one. This one fucking badass soldier

3 (32m 13s):
BMP that

2 (32m 14s):
Kills all the Nazis. It's incredible. It's the one of the most satisfying revenge movies.

3 (32m 20s):
Yeah. So go go to his Wikipedia, Adrian Ka on De Wat. I think he might have the best. There it is. Lieutenant General. Sir Adrian Paul Gilan car was a British army soldier officer, born of Belgian and Irish parents. He was awarded the Victoria Cross, the highest military declaration awarded for valor in the face of the enemy in various commonwealth countries. He served in the Bo War, first world war and second world War. He was shot in the face, head, stomach, ankle, leg, hip and ear was blinded in his left eye, survived two plane crashes, tunneled out for a prisoner of war camp and tore off his own fingers. When a doctor declined to amputate them, describing his experiences in the first World War, he wrote, frankly, I'd enjoyed the war.

2 (33m 7s):
There's dudes like that out there. You just have to know there's guys like that out there.

3 (33m 11s):
This guy's story. Let me tell you about him, man. So he gets born in 1882 aristocracy in Belgium. And you'd think he's gonna go through the typical aristocratic route. He goes to Baal College in Oxford. His father wants him to go and study law. And you think, right, that's, that's the end of the story there. At 19, he decides he wants to go and see war sneaks away without telling his father. And literally offers himself to either the Boas or the British. The British take him. So, holy shit. He was like, I just want to be in war. His

2 (33m 43s):
Holy shit.

3 (33m 44s):
His father doesn't know. So he's away in war. He gets shot in the leg, in the groin, gets shipped back home. His father says, what? You were supposed to be in university, you've now been shot. He's okay. Well I'll bless this new military campaign you want to go on? He says, I wanna be redeployed. Gets redeployed again to South Africa. He was at the head of the Camel Corps, which was literally a group of people who rode into battle on Camelback. So he gets shot, he gets shot in the ear, and then in the eye, and then a bullet ricochets and hits him in the same eye again. While he's leading these guys into battle, he gets sent back home. The British military say he wants to go out on the first World War.

3 (34m 27s):
He wants to go to the front lines to the First World War now. But they said, we can't send a guy with one eye out there because it's gonna look like we've got really weak soldiers. So they give him a glass eye and say, the only way that you can go back out is if you wear this glass eye. And he says, oh, okay. In the taxi, leaving the hospital, takes it out, throws it out of a window and starts wearing an eye patch. The first battle that he's in when he rejoins, when he rejoins the army in World War I, a piece of shrapnel explodes his hand. And all that's left are two fingers hanging on by the skin of the palm of his hand. And his watch actually embeds itself in his arm too. So that this is the first thing that he's encountered. Again, goes to the field hospital, the doctor declines to amputate the fingers.

3 (35m 8s):
So he just rips them off in front of him because he's in so much pain. The arm then has to be amputated. So he says to the guys again, I wanna be redeployed. They're like, you are now a one-eyed amputee. I wanna be deployed. Battle of the Psalm. His next battle that he goes into, there's reports from other soldiers seeing ka duit running into battle, pulling the pins out of grenades with his teeth, throwing them at the enemy and reloading a revolver with one hand. So this guy is a single armed killer. During that, he gets shot in the, he gets shot through the back of the head, through the head. Doesn't die in subsequent battles.

3 (35m 48s):
Oh, he, he got promoted for 24 hours before he threatened to punch his superior and then got demoted again. So he is just like this totally wild dude. Anyway, he goes through this series of different difficult military exposes. He takes over three squadrons who don't have a commanding officer. None of them have any communication. So he, this one armed, one-eyed guy decides to run back and forth between the three different companies communicating his own orders rather than using a messenger. He just does it himself. That was what he got the Victoria Cross for, which is our equivalent of the Medal of Honor. During this time, he shot a a bunch more, you think? Right. Okay. This guy's just led the most insane campaign through the ball war and the first world war time for him to retire wrong.

3 (36m 37s):
60 years old. In 1940, he gets conscripted and drawn back up to help run secret missions. So his first mission, one of his first missions, he gets shot down in a fjord going to toward Romania. There's a German plane that shot his plane down circling overhead rather than get into the dinghy because it would be an easy target. This one-armed, one-eyed guy and all the rest of the crew just bob under the water until this German fighter plane runs out of ammunition. That goes away. He finally gets picked up. Second time he goes, I'm in a plane. This plane crash lands. And he swims to shore carrying a injured comrade who survives one arm, but swims carrying this other dude gets captured by the Italians.

3 (37m 25s):
He's then part of five escape attempts and digs a 60 meter tunnel with one arm and a bunch of other dudes. Then he spends a full week hiding out in northern Italy, despite the fact that he's 62 years old. One armed, one-eyed, can't speak Italian, and has covered in scars. Then he finally, finally gets picked up and released. They said that the only thing that the Italians had left to do was to use him to enable an armistice. They wanted to no longer be a part of the war. They use Kaan Duit to be an en, an envoy between the two nations. And they said, well, you've been a prisoner of war for nine months. You don't look or smell the way that you should do.

3 (38m 6s):
Why don't we give you a nice Italian tailor? And he rejected that offer to give him an Italian suit and said he would only wear one if they got it from Savile Row because quote, he didn't want to look like a gigolo.

10 (38m 24s):
This guy's a human badger.

3 (38m 27s):
He's, he's 31 medals shot nearly as many times got used. He, he insulted Mao, he insulted Chairman Mao in China when he got, he got used by Winston Churchill. There's photos of him stood behind Churchill eye patch. Just a, a fucking sleeve. And the, he's my new Look at him, look at him.

2 (38m 49s):
Wow.

3 (38m 50s):
One of the coolest people from history that no one knows about. What

2 (38m 53s):
An animal. What an animal. Jesus. Why hasn't anybody done a movie on that guy's life?

3 (39m 3s):
Don don't know. There's another that, that doesn't even really have a particularly good book. He wrote a memoir called Happy Odyssey, which is like, it's a bit, it's written by him as opposed to, you know, a bit more exciting. Alistair Erhart, this guy called the Forgotten Highlander. This is probably one of my favorite books. I taught Ryan Holiday about this and it fucking blew his mind. So this dude was 18 years old and got conscripted in World War ii. He's Scottish. Scottish regiment gets sent to I think Singapore, then Japan joined the war. The Japanese just invade fucking everywhere, take everything that they can, including him. So this guy is made to forced march for weeks with nothing.

3 (39m 44s):
A loin cloth, bloody feet being cut up by the surroundings. He has every tropical disease under the sun for five years. Straight distant tree and malaria and ev everything that you can get. Probably yellow fever and full works. He's part of the forced labor group that's made to build the bridge over the river. Kwai, the famous movie, he, one of the prison guards tries to sexually assault him. So he kicks him in the nuts and runs away and hides. But there's not much like, what are you gonna do? Whatcha you gonna run to? You can't survive without the meager amounts of rice that they're giving you. So they find him and lock him in an open tin box to bake in the sun for three days. Doesn't die like. Right. Okay, well this guy's sufficiently resilient. We can probably use him if he's this resilient to survive this, he'd probably be a good worker.

3 (40m 27s):
So let's keep him and we'll do the rest of it. So they then pull him out. They need to transport all of these prisoners. So they put them on what they called a hell ship. And these hell ships were just huge tin boxes with no Swiss cross on the side, which is what you should have to say, that you're transporting prisoners of war so that it's not a military vehicle. And they would just toss tiny morsel of food down to a hundred men that were in the hold of this ship. and it was baking hot in the midday sun as they're traveling over the water. And these guys still doesn't die. They're stood in their own feces. People are dying left and right starting to decompose. Oh, so because they didn't put the Swiss cross on the side a US military, I think it was a boat or a submarine, sent a torpedo at them.

3 (41m 11s):
So his boat that he's on explodes, he then catches a piece of flotsam or Jetson or detri it like a little bucket that he can sit in so that he can float around. Basically has a fight with another Japanese guy who's also doing the same thing. Finally washes up on shore. He's free briefly, but he's in Japanese territory. I can't remember what country he washes up on, maybe Singapore again. He then gets recaptured, put back to work again, and gets knocked off his feet by the bomb blast from Nagasaki. He gets hit by the bomb blast and knocked off his feet by it. Holy

2 (41m 47s):
Shit.

3 (41m 49s):
50 years. This guy doesn't talk about it at all. Doesn't say a peep for 50 years by orders of the British government. And then finally writes this memoir as a call to arms to bring the Japanese to account for the atrocities. You know, he had the Nuremberg trials and stuff Yeah. For the Germans. But there wasn't that similar kind of reckoning for the Japanese. And he thought this is, this is unforgivable because of what he went through for the rest of his life. He could only eat tiny, tiny amounts of rice. His stomach, his whole digestive system was ruined by starvation, just extended starvation for this five year period. And very, very tiny morsels of food. So his stomach had adapted to that. And, and that was this guy. And he died in the early two thousands and then wrote this book, the Forgotten Highlander.

2 (42m 31s):
Wow, I gotta get that.

3 (42m 33s):
It's so fucking good,

2 (42m 34s):
Man. That's on the list now. Wow. Yeah, the, I read the, the rape of Nam King Years ago. It's, it's what's it about? It's about Japan during the war, what they did in China, just the atrocities they did with people's children, their babies in front of them. Like the way they just tortured people. What, what people can justify doing in times of war is absolutely terrifying. And when you read about it and you read about it from a time that's less than a hundred years ago, it's so shocking. It's so shocking. 'cause when you think of the Japanese, when I think of Japanese, I think polite culture warrior society, long history of martial arts, amazing engineering, incredible automobiles.

2 (43m 25s):
I think of all these like positive things. I don't think of like what happened during World War ii. It's really terrifying. There was a documentary about it too that I remember I had to buy online from VHS tape. It was very hard to get, it was some sort of a educational documentary, like something that they would show at a university. I was like, oh god,

3 (43m 49s):
Horrible about the rape of nine King. Yeah.

2 (43m 51s):
It's just horrible. Just, just to know that people are capable of doing that to other people, to children and women and just anybody, anybody that's not them. And you can get away with it because this is war.

3 (44m 5s):
There's been an awful lot of very atrocious things that have been justified by those people are different to us. Yeah. Let's do something to them.

2 (44m 14s):
Any, any reason whether those people vote Republican or those people don't believe in masks or those people, you know, they, they have a different belief. Those people don't believe in our one God. Those people, they're, they're of the unclean faith. There's so many different ways people can look at someone as an other. And it's just, it's insane what we're capable of when we do that. Because you could just, people openly justify horrible things to people online. I see it all the time from Twitter justify horrible things to people because the people don't believe what they believe and they'll attribute like the most nasty fucking descriptions of people just because they don't believe what they believe.

2 (45m 1s):
It's like the least charitable view is highlighted the most, just so you know. It's this thing that we have this ability to other people. It's one of the worst aspects of human beings.

3 (45m 15s):
I think it, I think more people are bound together over the mutual hatred of an outgroup than the mutual love of an ingroup.

2 (45m 23s):
Yep.

3 (45m 24s):
I think I, I, I think there's this really great psychological study that was done where they bring, they bring a, a big group of people into a lab and they toss a coin. And if it's heads your blue team, and if it's tails your red team, so toss a coin and it's a roundabout, an even split maybe 50 50 people. And they go over to the blue team and they say, so what do you think about the red team? And they're like, well, I mean they're not as smart as us, are they? They're a bit like fucking stupid. You seen, you seen them over there. Like then I mean we're definitely, we're definitely the back. See, you actually just saw the selection criteria. The selection criteria was heads or tails 50 50. Completely arbitrary. Yeah. Immediately.

3 (46m 4s):
As soon as you give people the opportunity to find some tribal bias to lock onto,

2 (46m 9s):
They go. Yeah. They go, yeah, well, people are cowards too. That's part of it. There's a lot of strength in being a part of a, an aggressive group that believes one thing. You know? That's why you see like a lot of people that have been sort of bullied their whole lives become the biggest bully. If they're on like a, a something, some side of something that they think is like moving progress, moving social progress in a certain direction, they'll get super hyper aggressive. You know? It's like this is their chance. You know,

3 (46m 39s):
This is what I think most people don't understand about evil. The number of evil people in the world is probably quite low. What you have is people doing evil things for what they think are good ends. Almost all of the atrocities that we've seen throughout human history are people trying to doing something they feel is righteous. Yeah. Because that's what would motivate them. It's very unap for us to do something that we know is wrong. Right. The best way to get someone to be a part and be go along with an atrocious act is to make them think that it's in service of good.

3 (47m 20s):
Mm,

2 (47m 20s):
Definitely. Yeah. Which is why we enjoy movies like John Wick and Sisu. 'cause like

3 (47m 26s):
Retribution.

2 (47m 27s):
Yeah. He, these these people deserve it. Show, show him the trailer for Sisu. It's amazing.

3 (47m 33s):
How old is this movie?

2 (47m 34s):
It's not that old. Two years. Yeah,

9 (47m 36s):
It was made during The Pandemic came out 2022. And

2 (47m 40s):
There's maybe like three words said in the whole movie that

9 (47m 42s):
Phish came out this 2028.

3 (47m 43s):
There's all of those stats about the number of people that John, that Keanu Reeves kills. Sorry, I, I I can't, I will ask after this.

11 (47m 54s):
Oh, that's so good.

2 (47m 58s):
It's so good.

3 (47m 59s):
He throws a mine. Yeah. And hits a dude in the head with it. It's

2 (48m 3s):
So good. He's

3 (48m 3s):
A John Wick pilled gun, gun maxing killer.

2 (48m 7s):
Look, I'm a giant John Wick fan, but it's John Wick times two. That's so, because it's Nazis, he's not just killing like dumb Russian hitmen. He's killing Nazis. I, I checked they tried to steal his gold.

9 (48m 19s):
It was made after the Un Killable soldier. It said it was modeled after Rambo. Basically

2 (48m 25s):
What?

9 (48m 26s):
From First Blood

2 (48m 27s):
And a Rambo from First Blood was a good one. And

9 (48m 29s):
A real life military sniper named Semo Haya.

2 (48m 32s):
Oh yeah, I heard about that doc. That dude, it's, it's funny, when you, you think about a movie like Rambo, like Rambo is, it's a film that's indicat. It's another time capsule. It's indicative of a, like a kind of a corny time. Yes. People were kind of corny.

3 (48m 46s):
It's a bit cheesy.

2 (48m 47s):
Movies are just like, they're, they're hard to, things are so much more identified, like patterns of behavior. People show much more sophisticated socially, I think about stuff. It's very difficult to get like a Rambo type movie made today. You know, it'll make like some of those, like the first blood ones. There was just some, like some Chuck Norris movies, they're fun to watch, but they're so indicative of the time. What's this one? This is the

9 (49m 14s):
Trailer.

2 (49m 15s):
Oh, the trailer.

9 (49m 15s):
It's just a lot of talking. I, I thought it'd be more action.

8 (49m 21s):
That's okay. Warren, don't worry about the soap. He tough. Just save him crack. Don't move. I don't want you to catch your own throws. John Rambo.

3 (49m 31s):
Oh dude, I miss this guy. One man,

2 (49m 35s):
One man. They pushed too far

8 (49m 37s):
And it straight for the top.

9 (49m 40s):
We've talked about him a few times 'cause the gray man. But they recently just said, sly said that Ryan Gosling could be the only guy he would like vouch for Rambo, but

3 (49m 48s):
It might be too pretty. Oh, to carry on the torch. Yeah.

9 (49m 50s):
He might be too pretty to do it though or something. He said,

2 (49m 51s):
Look, this shit out him, he's gonna jump in the water.

3 (49m 54s):
This is basically the full movie fight. So long trailer,

8 (50m 0s):
Don't push it. I'll give you a war. You won't believe

3 (50m 4s):
Everyone's TikTok brain wouldn't allow a trailer this long anymore.

8 (50m 7s):
And all your men couldn't handle them before. Now what makes you think you can handle it now? Because God knows what damage he's prepared to do.

9 (50m 15s):
Explosions.

8 (50m 17s):
Fucking

3 (50m 17s):
Brilliant dude.

2 (50m 18s):
But it's, it's a sign of the times. It's like, like that. Did we find out who the little girl was in that movie? Oh, I did.

9 (50m 24s):
I found the movie. It's called Hold, I have to pull it back up. Frontier Gal is what the movie was called.

2 (50m 32s):
Frontier Gal.

9 (50m 33s):
And it wasn't Shirley Temple. Beverly Simmons is

2 (50m 38s):
The's name. Oh. So that was a, that was a time capsule. That's what she looks like. And Rambo is a time capsule too. It's a time capsule to like a time where the art form was just different. That was her.

3 (50m 47s):
Can I just check, I I, I don't seem to recall the complex plot of John Wake. Is he still killing people because of his dog?

2 (50m 55s):
Well see they dragged him back in. See, here's what happened. He killed everybody because of his dog. And then he was ready to retire. How

3 (51m 4s):
Far did that go? First? One second. One second

2 (51m 6s):
One. The second one. Okay. Two, two

3 (51m 8s):
Full episodes of killing. Yes.

2 (51m 9s):
Yeah. Two, well he had, he had to get his car back in the second one. So

3 (51m 12s):
First one was dog.

2 (51m 13s):
So he got the Mustang

3 (51m 14s):
Back. Second one was car. Yeah.

2 (51m 15s):
The, the second one. He shows up. He kills everybody at the warehouse that's storing all the stolen cars. And then he toasts to make a toast with the Russian mob boss to peace. And you know, it's like, can a man like you really know peace? He's like, why not? He's like, okay, cheers. So the guy freaks out that John Wick doesn't kill him. John Wick leaves goes back to regular John Wick. He doesn't have the slick back hair anymore. He is not wearing the suit anymore, just like a regular guy. And he's got his car, it's all fucked up and they fix his car. And then a dude that he owed a marker or two comes to visit him and says, I want you to kill my sister. And he has to do it because he had this marker with his blood's in it. And so then he's back in the business.

3 (51m 56s):
That's the second one. Yeah.

2 (51m 57s):
And then he kills that guy, spoiler alert. And then the whole world's after him. That's John Wick three.

3 (52m 3s):
And then there's a fourth one

2 (52m 4s):
And there's a fourth one, which is basically a superhero. And the fourth one, they're like, they're over the top. Crazy. There's, so I, I, I enjoyed the fourth one, but it's a very different thing than the first one. The different thing, the, the first one, you could kind of believe that that could really, all, that could really happen by the fourth one, they had a band and all that shit. It's like they have bulletproof jackets and it's just like they're running into bullets and it's just, it's cartoonish, but it's fun.

3 (52m 28s):
The most crazy movie across into real world thing that I've learned about is this modified RX nine hellfire missile. Have you seen this? No. This thing is insane. Do do the honors, Jamie, let's look at this. So

2 (52m 41s):
Is it one of the hypersonic missiles? It changes directions.

3 (52m 43s):
This is more precise. So what they realized was that collateral damage is a big deal in war zones. Because if you kill people that aren't just the target, you galvanize that group against your, yeah, there it is. America's secret ninja bomb packed with blades that shred militants alive.

2 (53m 6s):
Oh my God.

3 (53m 7s):
So there's no explosive in the front of it. It gets deployed using the, an existing platform. But rather than having an explosive payload, these razor sharp, six razor sharp swords come out the side of it and just turn human flesh into smoothies.

2 (53m 25s):
Whew.

3 (53m 26s):
Look at what it does to a car.

2 (53m 28s):
Oh my God.

3 (53m 29s):
But how precise this thing is, it's so precise. You have the flying Ginsu, I think it's colloquially called the Jihadi blender.

2 (53m 37s):
Oh my God. You just shoot it into cars.

3 (53m 40s):
So it's so precise that you need to know which seat of the car, the,

2 (53m 46s):
The bad guy's in.

3 (53m 48s):
Bad dude's in. Yeah. Because if it was a long enough vehicle, front right seat and back, left seat, back left seat will be scared, but it'll be fine. So there was this dude, one of them, supposedly one of the masterminds behind nine 11. They'd done surveillance on this guy, and every morning he'd come out and drink his coffee on his balcony, same balcony, and come out and he'd drink his coffee and, and, and, and look out. So they just timed two of those things comes out. Mm. And that's it. There's no explosion. There's no nothing. And this guy just gets turned into dust.

2 (54m 21s):
They, they shot two of the manano

3 (54m 23s):
Two just in case the first one missed, I think. Oh my god. Laser guided. Set it off. And here's the other thing, because it only propels for the first two seconds and then after that it's just using fins. So it works out the trajectory. So there's not even the sound of engine coming toward you, it's just silence and then blades and death.

2 (54m 41s):
Oh, it's a flying, it's a flying rage. Hypodermic. Do you know what a rage hypodermic is? Rage hypodermic is a wild mechanical broadhead that they invented for bow hunting. So instead of a bow hunting, broadhead being a fixed blade, like a solid piece of metal that's screwed into the end of your arrow. Instead it's a mechanical broadhead that upon impacting tissue opens up into this huge opening. They make giant holes, they call 'em rage holes and they kill animals quick. And it's kind of controversial in the, in that if your blade hits a branch on the way in or, or, or like a stalk of hay or something, that it'll trigger it like that.

2 (55m 27s):
It could trigger it and then it would fuck up the trajectory of the arrow and it might lead to a bad shot. So there's that. And then there's a gig. It could get deployed accidentally in your, in your quiver. And you might not know it when you're drawing and shooting. It could be open and it could open up in flight, but if it stays closed and it does impact, it makes a giant hole.

3 (55m 50s):
Cam took me to the bow wreck.

2 (55m 53s):
Ah, you did lift run shoot. I

3 (55m 55s):
Did. He fucked me up. He made me go up the hill. That

2 (55m 58s):
Was

3 (55m 58s):
Brutal. He made me carry that rock.

2 (55m 60s):
How long did you, what is it? Like two miles?

3 (56m 2s):
I don't know. I think it's maybe about a mile up and a mile down, but it's pretty steep. And I mean there's a 72 pound rock with you.

2 (56m 7s):
You gotta carry the rock down.

3 (56m 8s):
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I think, did we carry it down? I can't remember. I think it's supposed to. But he made me, he made me do the trail and then he made, but he taught me to shoot. and I was looking at, with gruesome glee, looking at all of the different types of arrows in the bow rack, looking at all of these different heads and all of the different attachments. and it advertises exit wound, three inch diameter exit wound, five inch diameter

2 (56m 32s):
Cam shoots this thing called a carnivore. And the carnivore is a broad head that's got four blades. It opens up a canal in these animals. Yeah. It's like for broad, but like for bow hunting though, it's extremely effective. If you can get it into the vitals, it's like that's a, that's a lethal shot every time. It's such a big hole.

3 (56m 55s):
I wonder how many, is it more humane to kill something more easily? Yes. Is my, is my question. Yeah.

2 (57m 3s):
It's more humane to use a rifle in a lot of circumstances. Look at that.

3 (57m 9s):
That's literally, that's literally just the non rocket propelled version. That's what I'm saying. What we just saw. Yeah.

2 (57m 14s):
Yeah. It is like a carnivore. Sorry, go back to that carnivore thing. Yep. So you can see what it is. So that's a, that's a really big one. So the, the controversy in bow hunting is always like fixed blades are more durable, but mechanical blades have more cutting surface. What

3 (57m 33s):
Is that? What

2 (57m 34s):
Is that? Circular blades. Jesus

3 (57m 36s):
Turns stuff into pizza slices.

2 (57m 39s):
Colorful eagle. That's what it's called. Call Jesus Christ. Oh

3 (57m 42s):
My God.

2 (57m 43s):
Yeah. That seems, that seems like it wouldn't fly good. See, the problem is they have to fly good too. And the more metal surface area you have, the more you have a chance of what's called planing. So as the crosswinds hit your, your arrows, you can, your, your blade can drift because the wind hits the, the broadhead. So if you have a wide cut solid, like fixed blade broadhead, that's a, that's another sort of thing into an aircraft thing that can catch wind. Yeah. People tune them. Like, so, so if you have like a single bevel broadhead, so there's a single bevel Broadhead, which is a, a broadhead, which is a fixed blade broadhead that has only had the edge sharpened on one side.

2 (58m 24s):
And that encourages rotation. And that rotation has to align with the helical of your veins. You don't want 'em to be fighting with each other. So if you have a left hele on your veins of your, your arrow, you also want a left vehicle on this broadhead. And so they, these are tuned in tightly together. And so you, you have, it takes, it's a very painstaking process. You have to make sure you're doing it right, you're gonna move your rest a little bit. And, but once you get it dialed in and you can shoot accurate out to like 60, 70 yards with it, you know that it's called broadhead tuned. So with field points, you don't really have to do that. 'cause the fletching, they steer it enough and you just have to be kind of on target. You have to be closer. But with broadheads you have to be like really, really locked in.

2 (59m 4s):
So that's the negative of the broadhead.

3 (59m 7s):
They made me shoot through the paper to see where are you pulling? Yes. Accidentally. And then they adjust and tune. And dude, I loved it. I I love seeing anyone that loves anything that much. Yeah. That degree of passion to me is so me and my housemate Zach, watch these videos of motocross, you know the, the Colin McCray? Yeah. Oh, is that rally Rallycross, sorry. And these dudes will go out to, but fuck nowhere Scotland in November and it's pissing down with rain and they're in ponchos and they do it to see, and then they turn to each other and go, ah. And they just lose their shit. And it's so, dude, it makes the hairs on my arms.

3 (59m 49s):
Stand up Jimmy, see if we can find some of these videos. They, it's the most pure loving audience of a thing. And just finding anyone the same as Wayne Endicott at, at the bow rack. Just the way that they play with the bow. And, and they know that if they add a tiny little bit of flame from a lighter to the site, that it'll sort of cinch it in a different way and it heats the, the sinew of the thread and it tightens that in. Yeah. Seeing anyone that loves anything that much is just, there's something very like gentle and, and honest and peaceful and and beautiful about that. and it, it is fires me up.

2 (1h 0m 29s):
I couldn't agree more. I, I love watching people make things and put things together and I love watching people work on cars, do mechanical things. I get, I'd love that shit. But the bow rack one, one of the things that's interesting about archery is that even just if you're just interested in target archery, any kind of archery that you're interested in, unless you are shooting a traditional bow where there's no sight on it and you're just kind of like doing it by field and you learn how to aim, depending upon where you're, how much your arrow weighs, you can get pretty accurate with those things. But not nearly as accurate as you can with a compound bow. And with a compound bow, it has to be fitted to your frame. You have to go to a place like the bow rack.

2 (1h 1m 9s):
And if you're lucky and you have a place like that, that's great 'cause like they're really good at it. But you might not be lucky. So you might have to travel hours to go to some place. People

3 (1h 1m 18s):
Were, yeah, well we were there. We, I think it was maybe a Saturday morning and we've driven six hours Yeah. To come to this place and

2 (1h 1m 26s):
You have to go to a good place too. 'cause the first place I went to that my draw length, they had an inch longer that it should have been the peep site was weird. I had to like cock my head weird to look at the peep site. And then I went to a good place and they fixed it right. And then I went, oh, this

3 (1h 1m 40s):
Is an extension of my body now.

2 (1h 1m 41s):
It, it becomes, if you practice it enough, it never really becomes an extension of your body. But you do get so comfortable in that activity that it becomes a normal thing to you. So then that activity is all just about the fine details of breathing and thinking and shot execution in your head. And the goal is always, at least the way I do it, is always to make a surprise shot. I never want to get it to go off. I want to be in full draw. I wanna have my pin on the target and I want to just be concentrated on that arrow hitting the mark. And then I just go through this shot execution thing and it goes off.

2 (1h 2m 24s):
And when it goes off, the ultimate goal is to just watch that arrow go exactly where you wanted it to go. And when I do that at like 74 yards, it is the most satisfying feeling in the world. Just targets just shooting at a foam target. It's so satisfying and it requires so much concentration that in that act of doing that the world goes away. And that's the key to it. The, that's the key to anything that I really enjoy doing. That's very difficult. I think you need little vacations from the world and if you have an hour and a half to shoot a bow, it can provide you with a vacation from the world.

2 (1h 3m 4s):
You, you are literally only think it's so difficult to do and it's so involving and it's so rewarding when you get it right that you're completely locked into this one activity and the world goes away.

3 (1h 3m 18s):
I love it man. I love, I love the solitude and the peace that you get doing something that you know well and that you can get better at. Yeah. and I, I often think about like three types of Chris dopamine, Chris serotonin, Chris and cortisol Chris. And my goal is to spend as much time in serotonin Chris as possible. But you know, dopamine Chris is plays on Modern Wisdom and, and growing the channel and, and, and money and and yeah. New stuff and, and traveling to new places and it novelty. Right. And cortisol, Chris is dealing with the operations and it's executive function. It's answering emails and it's dealing with, with challenges. And it's like, cortisol is kind of exciting too, but serotonin, Chris is walking with your friends in nature and calling your mom and catching up and having dinner, going to a comedy show, watching live music.

3 (1h 4m 6s):
and I found that when I'm not feeling balanced in myself is when I'm spending too much time and things aren't bad. Things are going well. They could be even going excellently, but I'm still in dopamine Chris a lot and he's gangster rap and a V eight engine and I wanna be, I wanna be magic mushrooms and a hammock. Like,

2 (1h 4m 29s):
But wait a minute. Pause please. 'cause you just bought a Camaro. I did. You son of a bitch I know you bought an SS too, right?

3 (1h 4m 36s):
Two Ss. Yeah. Yeah. 6.2 liter V eight. Yeah. Oh yeah.

2 (1h 4m 40s):
You embraced American culture.

3 (1h 4m 42s):
Okay, I just need to get some beers.

2 (1h 4m 43s):
Did you get a a manual transmission? No,

3 (1h 4m 46s):
I've spent, so in the UK almost everybody learns to drive manual. So there's two types of license in the UK manual license and an automatic license. If you learn in an automatic, don't get to drive a manual, you have to take the test as a manual.

2 (1h 5m 0s):
Oh my goodness. That's a smart move. Yep.

3 (1h 5m 3s):
What?

2 (1h 5m 3s):
That's one case where England's got us. Fuck yeah. You guys win on that one? Hell

3 (1h 5m 8s):
Yeah. We got it. I

2 (1h 5m 8s):
I, I think, you know, it's a dying thing obviously. 'cause it's not as, it's not as smart. Why do I have to use my left foot?

3 (1h 5m 17s):
Dude, your entire in the uk My whole, the left side of my body, left arm and left leg. Just go chill out, go on holiday for the next hour while I do this journey. Yeah. I can use right arm only and right leg. But yeah, I, I remember hearing, I think it was Tim Kennedy talking about if you're a guy who is cared about preparedness and you don't know how to drive a manual car that's not preparedness, imagine that you are halfway up a mountain and only one car works or you need to get somebody down or there's been a car wreck or something and it's a manual car or you can work it out on the fly.

2 (1h 5m 52s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 5m 54s):
How many people know to Dr how to drive manual cars in America do you

2 (1h 5m 57s):
Think? Let's guess I would say 10%. I'll guess 10%. What do you think? What do you think it is?

3 (1h 6m 7s):
I have no idea. For America. Maybe, maybe I would've guessed like 50. I would've hoped 50%. But I dunno how many people are exposed to them in the uk I would say 90%, 90% of driving license holders will be able to drive a manual car at least. Mm.

2 (1h 6m 21s):
That's interesting. Yeah, I saw a lot of them in Italy. Everybody had a manual everywhere. That's all they have. They don don't

3 (1h 6m 27s):
Give a fuck about their cars either. They're just crashing like little dinks even there, you know, it was so precious, especially in the uk. I dunno how it is in the us so much so precious. But the little scratch, well you better get that painted up. Yeah. In Spain or France or Greece or something. That's just, that's a bit of a, what's it called? Patina. It's a bit of patina on it gives it character. Well

2 (1h 6m 46s):
Some cars, they look at it that like here, like if you have a Jeep or something like that, get it all scuffed up, that's fine. But yeah. Yeah. It's, it's a good thing to know how to do. It's also the real problem is if there's some sort of an electronic blast, if something happens like a solar flare that that takes out the grid. And the only because like if electronics get fried and this is a real possibility, I know. You're like, what are you saying? First of all, you have to understand entire planets get fried by supernovas. It's not just electronics. You know, things happen in inter galactic space that would end everything for us.

2 (1h 7m 27s):
and that, and it 100% could happen. You know, that's, that's a real thing. But solar flares, taking out power grids, that's a, that's a fucking real possibility. Taking out satellites, that's a real possibility. And one of the things about most modern cars is most modern cars are essentially run by a computer. So if all the computers get fried, guess what? Your car doesn't work. If that's I mean, if we're running into some sort of situation, some horrible event where all the computers get fried, that means your fucking car doesn't work.

3 (1h 7m 58s):
You also can't move anywhere

2 (1h 7m 59s):
Unless you have an old car. Now, if you have an old car that works on carburetors, you know, those are cars. Like if you have a 19, an actual reel, 1969 Camaro, not like the ones that, I have ones that have new stuff in them. So all the new stuff is computers, they'll be useless. All the, the ECU that powers all the ignition and the electronic fuel injection that shit's out the window. It

3 (1h 8m 21s):
Caused no control by China. That's

2 (1h 8m 23s):
That, that, no, it's not controlled by anybody. It's a lump. It's a lump. And it's, unless I could figure out how to put a carburetor on it and I can't, I'm fucked. You know? And you have, you would have to like gut the whole system. The, the, the, all the electronics are wired into it. The speedometer wired into it. It's like, oh,

3 (1h 8m 37s):
I was hearing that my neighbor has a Tesla and I think he gets his insurance through Tesla, but they can see the diagnostics of how he drives the car. Ah. So his insurance is way more expensive. Ah. Because it knows how late he breaks, how fast he accelerates, how close to all the cars he is. You wanna talk about encroachments on freedom.

2 (1h 8m 57s):
I didn't know they did that.

3 (1h 8m 59s):
There's a algorithm that's used in China that when someone is applying for medical insurance, it uses the website to track the number of typos and the movement of the mouse. And they've mapped that with an algorithm to predict pre parkinsonian, pre AIC, dementia, all of these things. So basically if you are filling in your medical insurance in China and you fuck up a little bit, your premium goes up.

2 (1h 9m 24s):
Wow, that's coming. All that stuff's coming. And a a lot of dummies are gonna, they're gonna sign up for it because they'll, they'll attach it to something you think is important like climate change. And that's how they're gonna get ya

3 (1h 9m 38s):
One third of Gen Z because fucking Greta Thunberg again, one third of Gen Z kids say that they would accept the installation of surveillance cameras inside the home to detect wrongdoing. One third 30%.

2 (1h 9m 58s):
I wonder if they really believe that or if they say that because they know it's not happening and they just wanna say that they're a good person.

3 (1h 10m 4s):
It's a lot. Yeah. Maybe it's

2 (1h 10m 5s):
Also, you're also a, a dumb young person that doesn't understand what you're giving up. Well

3 (1h 10m 10s):
I think another potential reason for it might be you are part of a generation that has traded your

2 (1h 10m 16s):
Privacy

3 (1h 10m 17s):
Precisely. Yeah. From the moment that you were born.

2 (1h 10m 19s):
You know what they do Snapchat, they give each other their locations.

3 (1h 10m 25s):
Yes, yes. The snap map

2 (1h 10m 27s):
I think. Yeah. So all the kids know exactly where all the other kids are. So if you're dating some gal and you know, and

3 (1h 10m 33s):
See her with that other person that's on your friends list

2 (1h 10m 35s):
And you see you are not where you said you were gonna be, you

3 (1h 10m 39s):
Know? Yeah. It's a

2 (1h 10m 40s):
So what, what do people do now? You know, they just, where are you? I see where you are.

3 (1h 10m 45s):
There

2 (1h 10m 45s):
Was a like, that's kind of weird.

3 (1h 10m 46s):
You read the terms and conditions of TikTok a while ago. I can't remember whether you saw TikTok has written into its user agreement that it can use the front facing camera to detect Microexpressions and use that to inform the algorithm.

2 (1h 11m 2s):
Fuck yo, yo. So if you like see something and go yo, yep. Like see some crazy Instagram video, there it is.

3 (1h 11m 9s):
They're like, oh,

2 (1h 11m 10s):
Whatever

3 (1h 11m 10s):
It is that they know. Yo, there, there's pleasure, there's disgust, there's anger, there's ending anger. and I bet

2 (1h 11m 14s):
It's cross platform. I I I bet if they have that app, that app, they have that ability and you're, you have it open. I bet they use it no matter what you're doing. I bet if you're flipping over and now all of a sudden you're on Instagram or now all of a sudden you're on Facebook or Twitter, I bet they still can see all your, I bet they see exactly what you're seeing.

3 (1h 11m 31s):
Well think about with the Apple Vision Pro that Jamie's going to have to debate about whether or not he takes it back over the next 12 hours. How much eye tracking. Yeah. What is that able to tell from what you're doing? Yeah. What about the latency between your fingers and your eyes? Is that able to predict early onset dementia or some neurological decline? Yeah.

2 (1h 11m 51s):
Yeah. Or could that be used against you if they decide that? Like, what, what, what do we get Chris on? You know, like, don don't like Chris being the CEO of this company anymore. Let's decide that he's in decline.

3 (1h 12m 2s):
Oh. And let's use that and

2 (1h 12m 3s):
Also start gaslighting him like you Okay Chris,

3 (1h 12m 6s):
You seem a little, like,

2 (1h 12m 7s):
You just seem off lately.

3 (1h 12m 8s):
Dude. Did you just

2 (1h 12m 10s):
Hot gaslighting?

3 (1h 12m 11s):
Did you see the outcome from this special council report on bidet?

2 (1h 12m 16s):
No, I did not. Okay, let me pee because I, this is a big one and I'm, I'm holding in a pee so get

3 (1h 12m 22s):
Get you pee. Let's pee together.

2 (1h 12m 23s):
Okay, let's do that. We'll be right back folks.

3 (1h 12m 26s):
Fun as well. Yeah. I

2 (1h 12m 27s):
Like, yeah, I'm watching a movie.

3 (1h 12m 29s):
17 hours. It's miserable enough as it is. don don't need to make it any worse. But yeah. Hydration. Hydration on planes. People don't think about No it so important.

2 (1h 12m 36s):
Or radiation. Did we find out about that?

3 (1h 12m 39s):
Do people die on planes?

2 (1h 12m 40s):
Has there ever been a study on the radiation that pilots and flight attendants receive? I

9 (1h 12m 44s):
Was digging into it. There was not a lot of studies available. One study I found was from 1992 and it just said that like, pilots die sooner after they retire and it wasn't showing, you know, not radiation.

2 (1h 12m 54s):
Yeah. But isn't that applicable to most men that quit their jobs? Right. It

9 (1h 12m 57s):
Could have been something, A lot of things could

2 (1h 12m 59s):
Have gone into that people fucking die when they don't have meaning and purpose too. Yeah. That's a real factor. People

3 (1h 13m 4s):
That retire died significantly sooner. Yeah. Way sooner. Yeah. It's one of the reasons I think everybody when they retire should be issued a dog.

2 (1h 13m 13s):
Aw yeah. That be cool. Like a little Carl. Yeah. How's Carl doing over there? Is he sleeping? Chilling. He

3 (1h 13m 18s):
Just woke up.

2 (1h 13m 19s):
He's so good. Carl's the cutest little thing ever.

3 (1h 13m 21s):
He's amazing. He's

2 (1h 13m 22s):
Ama Yeah, that would help. But I think what also would help is have things you enjoy doing. You know, you, you can still enjoy your life without having a job. And if you, if you've gotten enough money where you can retire and you feel like you could pull that off, you should do stuff. Don't just fuck. Yeah. But some people don't know what the fuck to do when they're not working and work was their everything. It was their entire existence. It was their social status. It was how they made a living. It was their social community. It was all their friends really. 'cause you like you're with your workmates more than you're with your, your partner, your, your wife, your husband. What are the, what's the number where you're awake at home, you get home at six o'clock, you're only gonna be awake till 10 if you have to work.

2 (1h 14m 8s):
If you're doing a nine to five. If you're a crazy person, you're up at 11, 11 30 and you don't mind being a little tired in the office. But if you're like trying to be on the ball, you're gonna go to bed as early as you can. You gotta get up at fucking six 30. You gotta commute. How much time are you together?

3 (1h 14m 23s):
I've been thinking about this idea of hidden and observable metrics for life. So a observable metric would be something like the amount of money that you earn per year. It would be the value of the car that you drive or the engine size of the car that you drive or the value of your house. A hidden metric would be something like the quality of your relationship with your partner. The amount of time that you get to spend without tasks to do the length of your commute, things like that. Hmm. And it's my belief that a lot of people trade observable metrics for hidden metrics all the time. So someone will be offered, Hey Joe, we want to give you a raise.

3 (1h 15m 4s):
You've been doing really well at work but this is gonna come with more responsibility. We're gonna need you in the office earlier and you're gonna be in charge of this floor of 10 people. Okay. How much more money have you got? Well I've got $15,000 added onto the observable metric. But what's the hidden metric cost that you're paying for that? Well, peace of mind and time with your partner or you take a another job somewhere else and your commute is now 45 minutes longer in both directions. Yeah. It's 90 minutes a day that you're not spending with your kids or with your wife or with whatever. Yeah. And because money is the ultimate game, it's the best game. It's literally global. It's universal.

3 (1h 15m 44s):
It can be exchanged between different currencies. I know your game can be compared to my game can be compared to anybody else's. But I don't get to see the dashboard that tracks the quality of your sleep or the piece of your mind. Right. Or the relationship that you have with your kids or your wife or the amount of time that you just get to yourself. Right. and I think people should be very cautious of trading observable metrics for hidden metrics. And one of the ways that you can try and fix this is to bring the hidden into the observable. So using a tracker of some kind maybe to track your sleep. That would be a good start. Or if you were to note down in a journal how you feel each day. Oh well maybe I feel a little bit better today because I did some.

3 (1h 16m 27s):
That's just fine.

2 (1h 16m 29s):
Don't worry about it. I'm

3 (1h 16m 30s):
Just

2 (1h 16m 30s):
Breaking this. Put that thing down. No worries. Yeah, no I, I think just overall general happiness gets thrown out the window in terms of the metrics of the numbers. The numbers and the observable things that make you superior. The car, the watch, the stuff, you know that. But yeah, I always tell people one of the things about HA house, I've said this many times unfortunately, but when I first got my first really nice apartment when I first moved to California, I realized pretty early on after a while I was like, oh this is just my house. This is just where I live. It feels just like the place that I had in New York. That was a shit hole. You know what I mean?

2 (1h 17m 10s):
It's just where you live. Did

3 (1h 17m 11s):
You adapt to it so quickly?

2 (1h 17m 12s):
Yeah. It's just where this is home. You know what all you need is a safe, comfortable place that a place where you can cook and eat your meals and a television or a computer. You

3 (1h 17m 24s):
Seen those. It's

2 (1h 17m 24s):
Basically the same experience. Have

3 (1h 17m 26s):
You seen those memes of guys just need this to survive? And so it's like a lawn chair of PS five big TV and a mattress on the floor. Right. Like it's like guy apartments or something. Oh

2 (1h 17m 39s):
Yeah. If you are living with all dudes, there's a chance that you're both

3 (1h 17m 42s):
Or just you on your route. Yeah, that's it.

2 (1h 17m 44s):
Yeah, for sure.

3 (1h 17m 45s):
Tell who I was talking to. I was talking to Dan Bilzerian about this and he's kind of on an interesting arc 'cause he sort of stepped back a little bit from public life from doing the stuff that he was doing before. and I was asking him basically whether he thought he'd overshot dopamine Dan and he, he said he was considering shaving his head, shaving his beard and going, working in an Amazon warehouse for six months to try and do like a hedonic reset to see the problem is, it was kind of like when Tim Kennedy did the waterboarding thing, there's a difference between electing to do something and being forced to do something right. And the fact that, you know, at any moment you've just got the ejector seat button or that it's going to be over in six months or that it's gonna be whatever.

3 (1h 18m 26s):
Right. I wonder if that changes. But yet he basically said, you know, this rapid use and abuse of all of the things that you can, whether the partying, the cars, the girls, the jets, the holidays, the travel, the drugs, where do you go from there? You know, it seems like having things isn't fun. Getting things is fun.

2 (1h 18m 51s):
Not knowing if you're going to get things and then getting them is fun.

3 (1h 18m 55s):
That's the middle of dopamine right now. So

2 (1h 18m 57s):
Once you, once you have things and you know you can get things, getting them doesn't become that exciting anymore then How'd you mean? Because if you could just get whatever you want, you don't get that excited about it. Like if you like, okay, when I got my first nice car, I got a, I think it was a 95 Toyota Super turbo and it was awesome. I couldn't believe it. I was like, this is like a real nice new car. And like the car I wanted a super turbo was this shit. I couldn't believe I had it. When I drive it around I'd be like, oh my God, I can't believe this is mine. I park it. I couldn't believe it was mine. But after a while you, you get another car and then you get another car and then getting a car is just like, this is a great car but it's, you can just do it when you want to.

2 (1h 19m 47s):
So you can get to a point where I call it Gorilla Buddhism. So when people say that material things possess you, they possess you if you are really connected to them and they are your only measure of worth. But the only way to know that material goods aren't really, you're not a slave to them is get 'em, get 'em, have 'em, and then go, okay, this is not that important. This is bullshit. This is bullshit. You don't feel better in a $10 million house and you're doing a $5 million house than you're doing a $1 million house. You don't feel better. You feel like you're in your house as long as it's not a shit.

2 (1h 20m 28s):
It's like rats or bugs or you want cleanliness and safety. Yeah. You want normal stuff to people. Like you wanna be able to chill on the couch. Couches aren't that much money. Most of the stuff is bullshit.

3 (1h 20m 38s):
Yeah. my friend James says, all wins feel the same. Yeah. And as you start to go up and up and up, the first time that you hit a thousand subscribers on your YouTube channel, or the first time that you buy a toto to super Yeah. Is the same or maybe even kind of less than when you get a Rolls-Royce colon or you get a gold plaque from YouTube or you get whatever.

2 (1h 20m 57s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 20m 58s):
All of these wins feel the same. So I got this other idea I love about how people sacrifice the thing that they want for the thing which you're supposed to get it. So a lot of the time we will sacrifice happiness in order to be able to achieve success so that when we finally have enough success, we can allow ourselves to be happy. So you sacrifice the thing that you want, which is happiness, right. For the thing which is supposed to get it, which is success.

2 (1h 21m 25s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 21m 26s):
And it's a super common pattern amongst high performers. You know, they grow up and maybe their parents have high standards for them. And they say that the, the subtext is that love is contingent on what I can bring to the world. And growing up this person internalizes the lesson. It is very important for me to overperform and they're driven by this desire to do more and to prove people wrong and a chip on their shoulder and all of this.

2 (1h 21m 51s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 21m 53s):
The problem is I think that on average, high performers are more miserable than the average person. I think that more people are driven by fear and anxiety and a lack, a desire for validation and to prove themselves to the world. And a desire for acceptance. Then some perfectly balanced, optimal, loving. I just want to make life the best that I can. That's not to say that there aren't people like that, but I think on balance, most people are driven by that fear of insufficiency and they're hoping that the next thing is going to be the answer. But another friend Alex says, you've already achieved goals you said would make you happy.

3 (1h 22m 36s):
You've already achieved goals you said would make you happy. How can you presume that your happiness sits on the next side of the next set of goals, given that right now you are on the other side of your last set of goals.

2 (1h 22m 54s):
So is the key to learn happiness while you're succeeding?

3 (1h 22m 59s):
It has to be. It has to be. Yeah. There is, you

2 (1h 23m 2s):
Just have to re you have to rewire your, your value system. And you, you, the word gratitude gets abused. It really does. It gets tossed into that, that word that just like, it makes things sound stupid, but gratitude is very important. And if you can actually appreciate where you are and what you're doing, even if you're not doing what you want to be doing, you're gonna look back on these days. If you're successful in life and you're gonna look back on the days when you're kind of struggling like, wow, like I was finding my place in the world, then those are exciting times. If you could be excited while also motivated, it'll just, it'll help your life immeasurably and I.

2 (1h 23m 43s):
Don't think it's gonna steal from your, your drive and ambition. I don't, I don't buy that.

3 (1h 23m 47s):
I don't buy that either. I I used to think that,

2 (1h 23m 49s):
Yeah, I don't buy it, don don't buy it. I know. Some pretty happy driven people. Yeah. They exist.

3 (1h 23m 55s):
There's a fear that some people have that haven't really thought about it. That if I allow myself to be too happy or grateful for the things that I've done, what if it kills my edge? It's like, dude, you are powered by a nuclear furnace of ambition. You think that giving yourself a little bit of gratitude or acceptance or love or serotonin for the things that you've done is gonna nuke that? No way. It's not gonna nerf any of it.

2 (1h 24m 23s):
It might if that's your only drive, if your only drive is to achieve financial success. But hopefully what you're doing is rewarding in a way on its own. And one of the beautiful things about standup is people do standup for free all the time. Like big name comedians, like Dave Chappelle does free standup all the time. Just show up at a club and do a guest set. Just pop in. He's not, he's not on the list. He's not supposed to be there. Just does it for free. Like what other, how many people's jobs? They just show up and just do 'em for free. You know, that's, if you can find something like that, then all the success and all this, that's all wonderful. But you enjoy doing it so much. It's such a fun activity that you, that you're doing. It's not just a making money vehicle.

2 (1h 25m 4s):
It's a, an enjoyable activity. It's so enjoyable. You'll go out of your way to do it for free.

3 (1h 25m 10s):
Yeah. Robert Polsky, who you've had on the show. Yeah. He says dopamine is not about the pursuit of happiness, it's about the happiness of pursuit.

2 (1h 25m 19s):
Mm.

3 (1h 25m 20s):
That it's as you move toward things.

2 (1h 25m 23s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 25m 23s):
One step at a time. It's not the destination, it's the journey. But it's so fucking trite. You're so right with what you say about gratitude. They getcha. We need to rebrand. That needs to be like, it's not you, it's me. Like how many people want to, oh, Netflix and chill. Like it's, these things get captured by cliches and you're like, no, fuck dammit. I mean it my way, not that way. Yeah. But yeah, the, that idea of it's far easy to, to achieve your material desires than to get rid of them. Right. Than to renounce them. Like it's way easier to drive a beat up Chevy truck if your last car was a Ferrari. Right. Because you've you've closed that little loop, right. Mark Manson talks about he, he has this great question, what pain do you want in life?

3 (1h 26m 5s):
And he says that it's a much more accurate way of asking the question, what looks like work to everybody else, but feels like play to you. Right. That's like a common thing. What can you do that is played to everyone else's work? Right. That's a competitive advantage. That might be comedy for you, Chappelle, et cetera. I would happily do this for free. There are other people out there who would need to be paid an awful lot of money to go through the drama of getting up on stage. Yeah. Mark's contention is that any pursuit, even the most existentially aligned will regularly feel like work. So what you need to look at is what are the pains that you can deal with better than everybody else.

3 (1h 26m 45s):
Like if you there is pain associated, I'm sure it's not just pure joy as you stare at a Google doc or a a note in your phone and you're like, how am I gonna get this bit out? Like how do I actually, I can't. I need to make this joke about cigarettes or something. and I just can't get it to work. You're grappling with something. There is a kind of pain. It's not pure pleasure every single moment. and I think, assuming that your pursuits are always going to be perfect, just blissed out man. And there should be no challenges. Like no, that's not the way that it's gonna work. Even if it's you calling in life. So a better way is what pains can you deal with better than everyone else?

2 (1h 27m 22s):
Yeah. And how much do you, how much do you discipline yourself? How much do you like really put a rigid schedule towards achieving goals and know and, and, and understanding that there's gonna be these uncomfortable things. You think like the creative process. It's uncomfortable. That's why people avoid it. That's what Steven Pressfield's book is all about. The War of art. I love that guy. It's a great, great great book. Such a good book. Such a good book for creatives. I tell everybody, I used to have, I still have a stack of 'em out there, right? He's got a fresh stack, we've got a fresh stack. He sends it. 'cause we, I gave him out to so many listeners. 'cause there's so many creative types that, that don't understand that there's this fucking weird thing that's going on in your head called resistance and it keeps you from doing the work that you wanna do. That's almost always satisfying when it's done and when you're done, you're like, God, I did it, but, but part of you is gonna go, let's not do that.

2 (1h 28m 9s):
Let's look, check out YouTube. Let's, let's you know, let's look at this. Let's look at the news. What's going on in the news man? Maybe some weird shit's happening that I need to pay attention to. And then next thing you know, it's an hour and a half later and you could have been writing the whole time. And every time I do just sit down and write, I'm always happier. It's always, but it's, there's always this little bit of a resistance. So it's kind of the same feeling that I get before a workout or before a cold plunge or before anything. It's just this feeling of knowing that there's some shit you gotta do.

3 (1h 28m 37s):
There was this story that I learned about Victor Hugo. So

2 (1h 28m 41s):
The jujitsu guy?

3 (1h 28m 43s):
No, this is a writer. Oh, okay. I want to say

2 (1h 28m 45s):
Victor Hugo is a

3 (1h 28m 46s):
That guy. Victor

2 (1h 28m 47s):
Hugo's a world champion Jiujitsu guy.

3 (1h 28m 49s):
He might also be a writer from the 18 hundreds. He might be both of those things could be, it's a time traveling man. So he was a writer and he paid his servant to come in every night during the middle of the night while he, he was asleep. And pull the bed sheets off of him off his bed, leave six pieces of paper in his bedroom and a pen or a quill and lock him in. And until Victor had slid all six pieces of paper written on underneath the door, his servant wouldn't let him out.

2 (1h 29m 20s):
Wow.

3 (1h 29m 21s):
The level that people get to, but think about when you are really struggling with the creative process, the ridiculousness of the things that you'll, that will look attractive to you. It's like I haven't sorted the cigar cupboard alphabetically in quite a while. I think that, I really think that the cigar cupboard could do with That's interesting that that brick that's been outside, I really should find a place for that brick. And the bird feeder needs refilling that you just find these Bazar things because your body is just doing everything it can. But this is a huberman thing, right? What's it called? The mid singular cortex. MSC. It's that thing.

3 (1h 30m 1s):
Apparently Goggins has got like the biggest one in the world. It's just

2 (1h 30m 4s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 30m 4s):
The thing that allows you to overcome doing hard stuff Right.

2 (1h 30m 8s):
Time that actually grows. Yeah. It actually grows upon exertion. Yeah. Doing things you don't want to do. Yeah. I think it's real. I I think I've, I've always recognized that that's a thing. 'cause when I take time off of working out, it's really hard to go back to it. But if you do it all the time, it just becomes a normal part of your life.

3 (1h 30m 26s):
Dude. Routine is such a vicious cycle up and down. Yeah.

2 (1h 30m 31s):
I think the whole body's that way. I really do. I think like, basically the way you can strengthen your, your muscles and you can strengthen your cardiovascular system. I think your mind works is exact same way. I really 100% believe that. and I think also the neglected conjunction of the two is significant. It's very important. So many intellectuals just don't think about their bodies. and it's so unfortunate. You just racked with inflammation and you know, just weak joints and weak muscles and just, you can't open up a jar of mayonnaise. It's like, you don't wanna live like that, man. You don't have to. It's like the idea that the two are mutually exclusive is stupid. That's a stupid idea.

2 (1h 31m 12s):
The idea that you shouldn't take care of your body and it just really concentrate on your mind. That's just dumb. It's a dumb thing to do. You don't, you're not gonna be doing complex math 24 hours a day. You can take the time to do some fucking pushups. You know?

3 (1h 31m 27s):
How many people do you think have it the other way round?

2 (1h 31m 31s):
A hundred percent. Yeah. Well also because it's in today's day and age, there's doing it for the gram, right? So there's like people that are really jacked that want everybody to see their muscles. And so you, you're, you're doing it All day long, you're lifting weights. You're, you're involved in recovery and all sorts of, if you've got the time to do that, it's most, if you have a job too, well, what the fuck? How do you have the time? But if you, you don't have a job, if you're like a fitness influencer, you know, I mean

3 (1h 32m 1s):
That is your job.

2 (1h 32m 2s):
You're fucking busy man. You, you wanna be jacked online all the time. Like yeah, you're probably not reading a lot of books. Probably

3 (1h 32m 9s):
Not, not meditating all that much.

2 (1h 32m 11s):
Maybe you are I mean, maybe that's part of your vibe. Maybe you're giving off that holistic vibe. That's what you're trying to push. You know, you're falling into that line. You know, you're bowing to people and shit. Saying mote. You gotta be,

3 (1h 32m 24s):
You gotta be careful with that though. There's a, I I tried to come up with a, a name for a trend I saw in myself, which was productivity purgatory, which is even the things that I was supposed to be doing for leisure. I was justifying because they somehow contributed to my output for work. Or, you know, I wasn't taking a walk in nature because I wanted to enjoy it. It's because I once watched an Andrew Cuman episode that said 15 minutes of sunlight in the eyes improves your productivity throughout the day by whatever, whatever I was. like. If you're not careful, you are, everything that you do is infused with this desire, this need, this compulsion to be productive.

2 (1h 33m 3s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 33m 4s):
And I think that that's dangerous.

2 (1h 33m 5s):
It is dangerous. It's just not good to be a human being with that. But if you wanna be the best at something, you've gotta be

3 (1h 33m 11s):
Obsessive. It's

2 (1h 33m 12s):
Really the, the best strategy. If you really wanna compete against other top dogs, you're gonna have to do more or be better, be smarter. Figure something out that they're not figuring out.

3 (1h 33m 23s):
Well, it's really a game of who's prepared to sacrifice most. Right?

2 (1h 33m 26s):
It's also who's prepared to learn the most. Right. Who's, who's good at recognizing what actually happened versus what you've been comforting yourself with. What you mean if there's a bad result, whether it's a bad result of business or a bad result of your personal life. Like there, there's always this desire that people have to find a reason why it wasn't their fault. 'cause it's uncomfortable. But if you can recognize, oh, this product tanked because of me. This is a stupid idea and I need to course correct and I need to realize what I did wrong instead of blaming the suppliers or blaming the manufacturers or blaming the other people in the design team or blaming this or, but whatever the fuck you're making or whether it's a, an album you just put out that just, everybody hates it.

2 (1h 34m 15s):
What did I do wrong? Don't, don't bullshit. What, what, what do I need to do different? And for a lot of people, that is an uncomfortable moment that they don't want to experience. And so if you're a high performer, the more you could recognize what you've actually done wrong and course correct. And not just be, if you're like a CEO of a company, you've got so many people kissing your ass. It's like your ego's gotta be inflated. It's gonna be so hard to see the forest for the trees. Just like being a movie star on a set. You know, everybody loves you. Here's your bagel. Yep. Mr. Williamson, can I get you anything? It's, it's, you, you, you get a, a delusional perspective. So it's like amongst those people, how many of them can keep their humanity?

2 (1h 34m 56s):
How many of them can actually just be a human? And, and then your metrics, like how many of 'em are happy? How many of these, if you can be a guy who's like a super high performer and also be happy the, I don't know how happy Elon is, but I know he laughs a lot. Like I've been around that dude a lot and he's always laughing about shit. He's always laughing about shit. He's clearly under an extreme amount of pressure. He's clearly a high performer, but he's also seems to be enjoying a lot of it.

3 (1h 35m 22s):
Did you see his interview recently with Lex? I think it was maybe four months ago. No, I didn't. So on that, there's a really interesting point where Lex is asking him basically what it's like to be Elon. Yeah. And Elon says, most people think they would want to be me, but they, they do not want to be me. My mind is a storm. They don't know, they don't understand.

2 (1h 35m 45s):
He said that to me too. Yeah.

3 (1h 35m 46s):
It's fucking like apocalyptic and, and, and, and terrifying. We spoke about this last time, tiger Woods, the price that people pay Yeah. To be the person that you admire. Right. And you know, tiger Woods goes through this really difficult period with his father and all the rest of it. And this is the best remedy for envy that I can think of. 'cause people look at Elon as this dude, he is sending rockets to Mars and he's making the coolest cars on the planet and he's on stage in Japan or China or whatever doing weird robot dances and shit. And he's super rich and I go, you don't know the price that he's had to pay for that. You don't know the internal texture of someone's mind. Your heroes aren't Gods, they're just regular people who probably got good at one thing by sacrificing literally everything else.

2 (1h 36m 33s):
Hmm. Yeah. Especially as a high performing athlete. Like what, what are your options? Like if you, if you want to be a, a fighter in the UFC, you can't also be coding. Yeah. Like you can't, you can't also be working at Microsoft. Like there's not,

3 (1h 36m 55s):
But can you also, can you also have a functioning relationship? Can you also be, you know, a the

2 (1h 36m 59s):
Thing about fighters is you do have a lot of downtime where you have to recover. You train a lot during the day, but if you make a living fighting, you will be able to have a relationship. and it, with some of 'em, that relationship offers them a significant amount of emotional reinforcement.

3 (1h 37m 15s):
Parasympathetic activation.

2 (1h 37m 17s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It gives 'em comfort. It makes 'em feel normal. Like some guys separate from their families for, for camp because they just wanna be animals. They just want to, they just wanna sleep in a fucking hotel room and just get up and train every day like a soldier. They just want their, their mind is on one thing this six week from now event. Yeah. And until then, I don't want to hear shit. When Marvin Hagler's kid was born, he didn't go to the hospital. He wasn't at the hospital. He was in camp. Yeah. Marvin Hanger would go off to Provincetown just down the cape and he would run, he would run in the fucking winter on the sand.

3 (1h 37m 51s):
There's that famous Darren Till interview where he is saying, I've got a 2-year-old daughter, don't care. All I care about is legacy and greatness.

2 (1h 38m 0s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 38m 2s):
Yeah. It's a, it's a high price that people pay. I mean Sean Strickland, who continues to seem to, he seems to be sparring like any YouTuber or streamer that's prepared to get into the ring with him. Well

2 (1h 38m 14s):
He beat up that kid who's a, a a smaller than him streamer named Sneak, which is not a good look. He beat the shit outta that guy. Yeah. It's, I just don't know why he wanted to do that. It's, it was, it's so easy for him to beat that guy up.

3 (1h 38m 28s):
But it was what we were talking about before.

2 (1h 38m 29s):
Yeah. It's not fair. It's just all, it's like, it's not really, there were I mean the kid don don't know what that kid thought. First of all, he's so silly for doing that, for agreeing to do that with Sean Strickland because

3 (1h 38m 40s):
He know that he's never gonna have that hold back.

2 (1h 38m 42s):
If you agree to do that with Israel outta Sonja, it is Israel outta Sonja will take care of you. I swear to God. He'll, he'll, he'll pop you a little bit, he'll let you know that you're helpless, but he won't fuck you up. He'll smile and laugh and he'll hug you afterwards. You could spar with him. I guarantee you could spar with him and then just touch your face just to let you know. Like you would've been knocked out. But I just touched your face. It's gonna touch you a little bit. Move around. You can't touch me, I touch you. Here's this faint and that's coming at you. And if he's not, if he's kicking, you're fucked. But even if he's just using his hands, if you're like some streamer, he wouldn't hurt you. But Sean Strickland's a different animal. Sean Strickland has, you know, he's got this fucking man code and he he believes in it.

2 (1h 39m 24s):
Yeah. Like you gotta get your ass kicked every now and then. And he spars all the time. Spars constantly. And if you agree to get in there with him, you're essentially agreeing to let him beat the fuck outta you. 'cause you don't really have a chance. Like you have no chance. But in Sean's defense, when he lost to Alex Beda, one of the first things he did was go to Connecticut to go over to Sherra's gym where Alex trains and train with him. And we was training with Alex Pejeta. He was light sparring. So this is fucking light Watch find the video of Sean Strickland training with Alex Pejeta. 'cause he's smart. 'cause you can't, that guy's not sneak o you can't Just too, that guy already knocked you out.

2 (1h 40m 4s):
Like Pejeta knocked him out in the first round. He hit him with a left hook and then a right hand as he was going down. Like PE is a monster. So he was with s sparring with this monster. He's like, who's this fucking be friends? Let's just be friends buddy. There wasn't

3 (1h 40m 16s):
Any of that sneak code. Teach your cheat codes.

2 (1h 40m 18s):
Exactly. Well he is and Peda teaches people, which is very interesting. You know, he's that confident in his ability that he'll take a guy that he just fought and a guy who is now the current look, look how they're sparring nice and light. See this? They're just touching each other just using distance and sparring. And there was an actual, see these guys are sparring, but they're not hitting each other hard at all. And there was a very interesting video that I just watched yesterday where this guy was talking about that in martial arts. I know if you'll be able to find it, but you know what, I guarantee you it's on my, my list of shit that I just watched. 'cause YouTube will give you a list of shit You, don't you just

3 (1h 40m 58s):
Watched Oh, the history.

2 (1h 40m 59s):
Yeah. Which is nice. but it was very interesting because it was talking about the importance of play when it comes to martial arts sparring in that sparring. You know, the, the only way to learn is to not be under this intense, high pressure, high stress situation. And for most people, sparring is terrifying. Especially sparring. If you're sparring someone who's like really dangerous in this video. Yes. This is that guy. It's a long video though. Yes. And Max Holloway talked about how he doesn't spar and cj but if you, what he's essentially saying is he, he, he breaks down the mind and how, where, where where's your optimal time to learn.

2 (1h 41m 41s):
And he talks about how animals play and about young animals. Like when a lion is jumping on another lion, they're learning to play rough and temple play and the ties, he also breaks down how the ties spar ties spar. Very light. They just touch each other. They're just touching each other.

3 (1h 41m 58s):
I've been out to Thailand. I've seen it.

2 (1h 41m 60s):
It's amazing. Yep. And and high level guys do that. And they, they do that so they can fight all the time. 'cause they fight almost every week. Sometimes weekends. Yep. So when they're training, they can't be getting beat up all the time. So they learn how to, and you know, that's for a hobby. Actually, talking about that on my, that

3 (1h 42m 18s):
Guy was

2 (1h 42m 19s):
Fascinating for us was Frosts is a Genius. He's one of the greatest martial arts trainers of all time, if not the best. So see these guys are, they're training and they're touching. See they just touch each other. And when you do that, you, you don't have the fear of getting hit back as much. And you learn combinations better. You learn timing better. When I first started coming to California, I started training at this place called the Jet Center. It was Benny, the Jet Orita, who's this world famous kickboxer. And he had this place in California that we, it was like two places I wanted to go to when I came to California. One was a comedy store and one was the Jet center. And unfortunately they had just been damaged. They had the roof damage from an earthquake and so they had like flooding problems and stuff and they had to move outta that location.

2 (1h 43m 1s):
So I was only there for like a short period of time before they went under. But there was guys you could spar there that were like really good kickboxers, but they were also, they knew how to spar correctly. So there was this one dude that I used to spar with all the time and I was getting so sharp because we never hit each other hard. Yep. and I, I knew I could trust him and he knew he could trust me. So we were sparring all the time. and I was not getting fucked up. Like I'd spar on a day that I had to film something. Yeah. 'cause I knew that you'd be

3 (1h 43m 28s):
Able to still go to work without a bloody nose or a black

2 (1h 43m 30s):
Guy. Right. So I did all my hard work on like the heavy bag, but then when I was sparring, everything is just movement. What

3 (1h 43m 37s):
Is the, or what are the bad habits that someone who does that too much can, would you maybe begin to habituate pulling your punches? Not telegraphing sufficiently.

2 (1h 43m 48s):
No. You would never, you would never. If you fought before, you'll never pull your punches. That's

3 (1h 43m 52s):
Not, but you know what I mean because you're obviously, you are dialing back that power, that penetration.

2 (1h 43m 57s):
You could say that with point karate, 'cause point karate. They kind of dive in and just touch each other. But they all know how to hit bags. They all know how to hit mitts. They all know how to hit tie pads. They all know how to do that. They know how to hit things. It's just the real skill level is in control. The real skill level is in being able to counter quickly, but know exactly where your hand is going. And you can do that. You can learn how to control force in a way that, like when I used to do TaeKwonDo demonstrations, like when we'd open up a new school, one of the things you'd have to do is like throw kicks at people's faces. Like stop it at their face just to show them like the kind of control that's possible.

2 (1h 44m 40s):
And you would have your foot like literally fly up like right in front of someone's face. And you would have someone stand there who's another student you would demonstrate on them.

3 (1h 44m 48s):
You just kinda stand there, not flinch.

2 (1h 44m 50s):
Yep. And you'd just stand there. And my instructor used to do it to me all the time. He would do it to someone in every class, like in the front row. He would demonstrate by stopping the kick in the air in front of your face. Fuck. That's cool. Yeah. And so you would learn how to do that when you would do that in like, so they, the ability to pull a shot is a part of being a really high level martial artist. And the ability to spar without and spar fast without hitting each other hard is also, it's like something you should know how to do. It's a part of, once you know that you're hitting, the only thing is like the anxiety of being hit. That's, and the, the danger being hit. Because if you're just used to like pulling shots, you could get an uncomfortable sense of your, like a dangerous sense of your, of your

3 (1h 45m 35s):
Robustness. Safety.

2 (1h 45m 36s):
Yes. Your robustness in your safety. 'cause any one shot takes you out. Any one good shot from a strong striker can take you out. So you're not, you don't you want no shots landing clean. You want everything to be moving away from you. And

3 (1h 45m 47s):
That's, this is new though, right? I've heard a lot of guys older school UFC guys saying that this light sparring thing is a pretty new invention. Totally.

2 (1h 45m 55s):
Totally.

3 (1h 45m 56s):
People were getting knocked out in sparring all

2 (1h 45m 57s):
The time. All the time. All the time. Yeah. Some of the old school training camps, like you'd hear stories about like particularly shoot the box in Brazil and Curitiba, they had some of the best fighters of the golden era of pride. They had Vander Le Silva, they had Ninja Shogun, Anderson Silva. They had so many killers that came out as one gym. And bro, they beat the fuck outta each other. They beat the fuck out of each other. They knocked each other out all the time. Van de Le Silva and Shogun famously had a, a fight to see whether or not one of them would pay for a pit bull. 'cause one of them had the pit bull.

2 (1h 46m 37s):
I think Shogun had the pit bull. And he is offered to sell it to Vle. And Vle said, I'll fight you for it. And so they fought and, and, and Vle apparently won and got the dog

3 (1h 46m 48s):
Just in the gym. This isn't fight Isn. There's no one's getting paid. No. Apart from in a dog.

2 (1h 46m 52s):
No. They would fight, fight, like, fight, fight. So when they would go to fights, they're so used to fighting,

3 (1h 46m 57s):
I'd fight over Carl.

2 (1h 46m 59s):
The thing about it is though, man, it's gonna shorten your career substantially. Substantially. It'll shorten your di durability towards the end of your career substantially. And you see it in every fighter that comes from that sort of environment. And the traumatic brain injuries that they get when they spar like that all the time. Especially when they're not slick. The thing about like Anderson Silva above all those guys was that Anderson was slick. He was very difficult to hit clean. So Anderson Silva, when he's sparring, like he's flowing and moving, you know, he's very difficult to catch. Those guys would go to war, just play on the mouthpiece and fucking rah.

2 (1h 47m 40s):
Did you ever see Vander Lee Silva fight?

3 (1h 47m 42s):
Yeah, I think so. His

2 (1h 47m 43s):
Nick's name's the ax murderer Vle Silva.

3 (1h 47m 46s):
Was that, was that the guy? Let's go now. Let's go now. Yeah. Wanted was that him with

2 (1h 47m 49s):
Cha fight Cha son. But that was at the end of his career. That was at the end of his career. When he came to the U Ffc Post.

3 (1h 47m 54s):
Post TRT

2 (1h 47m 56s):
He'd al Yeah. He'd gotten off of all the stuff that he was on when he was in Brazil. You want, you want fully roed vate in Brazil when he was a young man, he was a fucking animal dude. He was an animal. He he was so scary. He was, this was the bare knuckle days. This was like his first fight.

3 (1h 48m 13s):
Bare knuckles coming back.

2 (1h 48m 14s):
Yeah, it is coming back. Well, bare knuckle for UFC was how they first started. Yeah. Look, van Deley was, and he had a cool tattoo tattoo in the back of

3 (1h 48m 22s):
His head.

2 (1h 48m 23s):
He was an animal dude. He was an animal. I, I saw him meet a fan. I saw him meet a fan once. And the guy had the same tattoo in his head because he was Oh,

3 (1h 48m 29s):
You can do head kicks on the ground.

2 (1h 48m 31s):
Oh yeah. Everything, you can do whatever you want in

3 (1h 48m 32s):
Little briefs as well. I

2 (1h 48m 34s):
The briefs. This isto, this Isn int Brazil, this is where it all started, man. This is how they did it in Brazil. Man in Brazil. Bare knuckle valley tudo. It's just when the United States got involved that it became the, the thing that it is now. Pusy it up. Gloves. Yeah. I mean they were stomping and kicking each other in the balls. And this is Van Dele when he got to the UFC. So in these days, this was the UFC with zero testing. Oh my God. And you see him, he lose fucking treated. And then I mean Van Ley was a terrifying force. And then he goes over to pride and he becomes a champion of pride. But he was fucking people. And there's him against Guy Metzger, who was a very good fighter. And Van Ley just overwhelmed him. Oh my God, bro.

2 (1h 49m 13s):
Overwhelmed him. It's just headbutts everything. Knees. See that Headbutt don. Don't think that Headbutt was legal, by the way. I don't think that was legal back then. but it didn't matter. They weren't gonna stop it. And then Van Lake puts him away. Oh my.

3 (1h 49m 25s):
I wanted to

2 (1h 49m 26s):
Monster dude. He was a monster in his prime. He had to get his face reconstructed. 'cause his nose was so flat that he couldn't breathe out of it at all. So they took a big chunk of cartilage out of his rib and reconstructed his face. And he had nose, totally new face, nose, nose. A total nose. They made it big. He, he got a big nose so he could really breathe. Yeah. He looked like a different human. Like after the surgery, he looked like a, like, he showed up one day and I was like, what is going on? I was like, we're at the way the rib on my face. I knew that he had got a, his nose fixed. But I mean they just fixed, they made, gave him a different nose. Like it's way bigger so he could breathe more. He was beating the fuck outta people. He wanted more air. Fuck. Van was an animal.

3 (1h 50m 5s):
Who'd you think's more? Is there anyone else that was more psychopathic or more of an animal across your commentary career?

2 (1h 50m 12s):
There's so many of 'em. Many who ranks,

3 (1h 50m 14s):
Many who ranks close to the top.

2 (1h 50m 16s):
Mike Perry, who's one of the bare knuckle fighters now. Yes, he's yes. Yes. He's about as ferocious as a human being gets.

3 (1h 50m 22s):
He's the dude that chipped Luke Rock's tooth. Yeah. Right.

2 (1h 50m 25s):
Yeah. And he told him what was gonna happen before the fight. He's gonna, I'm gonna fuck you up and you're gonna quit. And he just went out and made, made him quit. Did exactly what he said. He's an animal man. Look at this. He's a real animal.

3 (1h 50m 36s):
This BKFC thing's. Interesting. Yeah.

2 (1h 50m 38s):
Well it's a very different kind of fighting man. When you don't have the protection of gloves, you know, every punch hurts way more. and it also hurts your hands.

3 (1h 50m 47s):
Is the wrapping on the wrists just to provide a little bit of support structurally when they're hitting?

2 (1h 50m 51s):
Yes. Yeah. Structurally it'll probably prevent some breaks. That's basically all it does is prevent some breaks. It connects your thumb to the hands too. 'cause the thumb breaks easy. The thumb, like on a missed punch, might hit a forehead with the thumb and the thumb will snap. So it'll protect it a little bit. Oh, Luke cracked him there with a good left hand. And Luke was a fucking hell of a fighter in his prime man. He was UFC middleweight champion and in his prime. And he beat Chris Weidman. He was a fucker. I remember that fucker, man. He was a motherfucker. But Mike Perry is not a guy that you can think you have. He's just so tough. He's gonna keep coming. Yeah. And if Luke stuck and moved and maybe had a different strategy, maybe he would've a, a better time.

2 (1h 51m 33s):
But you let Mike Perry start mauling you. He's so dangerous, man. He's such a fucking killer. And he doesn't feel pain. Or if he does, he doesn't let you know. It's just, he's, he's just uniquely built for that sport. Yeah.

3 (1h 51m 47s):
I, I wanted to teach you about something that I'd learned on the show. So you've had a number of conversations about trans athletes in sport and about the dangers Yeah. Potentially of, of biological males moving over into women's leagues. and it always kind of comes back to the same, well, if we can get the hormones down to this particular kind of level, basically can we reverse some of the structural changes? and it kind of gets into this realm of like hormonal fuckery, which is fine, but I think that's kind of been talked to death. There's something that I learned about on the show that I thought was even more important. So the male and female brain difference can be detected in utero, in embryos and fetuses that are six months old.

3 (1h 52m 33s):
So this is a minus three months year old. And they can already detect sext brain differences by the age of 10. 93% accuracy of an MRI between a boy and a girl. Oh, that's exactly, or that's roundabout the same as your accuracy of detecting whether it's a man or a woman based on looking at their face. That's the same degree of difference. So one of the arguments that will be put forward is social roles theory. So social rules theory is that boys behave like boys because they see boys behaving like boys and girls do the same. They're socially, they're socialized into doing this. That doesn't seem to be true because this is universal.

3 (1h 53m 14s):
It's across the board, it's present before anybody's even been born. And it's present before androgens. But the reason that this is, I think, important towards sport is that one of the key differences is in what's called visual spatial abilities. And males have a huge advantage in visual spatial abilities. This is preschoolers age three and four. They're throwing accuracy and they're throwing distance already begins to diverge from girls. And by the age of 19, there's essentially no crossover at all. You could understand why this might be the case because, well, if you're a ancestral hunter, you need to, as a man be able to see this is an animal running this way.

3 (1h 53m 54s):
I have this particular spear in my hand. I'm going to throw it to intersect this. So you go, okay, well one of the problems of using that is you can't bifurcate a male's performance, especially with something like throwing visual-spatial from the physical structure that they have, which is impacted by androgens. So men have longer forearms, their shoulders articulate in a different way. They might have more trunk rotation perhaps. So they did a study to try and work this out instead of having them throw things. The lecturers at this university brought their undergrads in and used a tennis ball firing machine like you use for practicing returns in tennis as dodgeball.

3 (1h 54m 36s):
And the guys in the class topped out the ceiling. They were very, very difficult to hit. The same wasn't true for the girls. The reason is that the male proclivity to be able to see things in space, understand how they fit together, understand the proprioception of where my body is and how I can interact with this is very, very different. It's a, a sizable, statistically significant difference that you find between males and females. Now females have their own advantages. Social cognition, which is emotion, otherwise known as emotional intelligence. Reading faces, lying detection, what's called like, I think it's local memorization or spatial memorization. So you know those games where you've got a load of cards down on the table and you've gotta match them.

3 (1h 55m 20s):
Girls would wipe the floor with guys at that. So there are predispositions mentally that men and women have, and this is something this is not, and this is the important thing. This is not impacted by testosterone level. So you as a biological male, can't take a ton of estrogen or hormone blockers and have your visual spatial ability be downregulated to that of a woman. So this to me explains an awful lot about why the WNBA is struggling because you are talking about a very different set of capacities. And unfortunately, unfortunately, I guess the way that sports are done is it needs to be visually compelling, right?

3 (1h 56m 1s):
You want to see cool things happening. Mm. You want to observe shit going on. A lying detection test or someone turning over cards and matching them doesn't lend itself to being a spectator sport as much. Which means that males have this predisposition, which is more entertaining given the current rule sets of sport. And this to me is a much more compelling unfairness when you're talking about male and female capabilities within sport. This doesn't have anything to do with what time were they put on hormone blockers. This doesn't have anything to do with how, what is their testosterone level at? This is innate inbuilt predispositions.

2 (1h 56m 36s):
But it doesn't, it have to be agreed upon by the people that are making these sort of decisions. Because most people, there's people that will resist that. They might not, they might even think they, they might not think you're lying, but they might resist that. They might resist that and say it's not valid. Doesn't matter

3 (1h 56m 52s):
Statistically significant I mean if if, right.

2 (1h 56m 54s):
But you could, you could see how people would've an issue with that. Right. Even though it's statistically significant. People would go like, who did the study? You know, if you're trying to like say that trans women are women, there's, there's a lot of things that you could say that they have an advantage with physically. The men proving it mentally just based on that. I agree. It seems an issue. Well, you know how big, if it's an issue, it's an issue in pool pool's not a strength game at all. It's a finesse game. It's a, it's a game of, you know, executing shots under pressure.

2 (1h 57m 35s):
It's a game of angles and it's a game of geometry and feel. But very few women ever get to the level of like an elite professional male. It's like there's a small handful in history in history and

3 (1h 57m 49s):
That's completely controlled for articulation of the shoulder strength. Maybe a tiny bit of strength on the break, I guess, but

2 (1h 57m 55s):
Could be on the break. But there's a lot of girls who break very well and the break today is more of a controlled break because they're breaking on cloth. That's Simone's eight 60. It's a very fast clean cloth.

3 (1h 58m 7s):
Your obsession, your obsession with pool makes me laugh every time that I hear about it. It's so funny. It's like this other wing of you. Yeah, that's I never think about. And then every time I walk in and I see that there's like a pool hall basically in here, I'm like, ah, yeah. The fucking pool

2 (1h 58m 21s):
Obsession. Yeah. I'm obsessed with it. But there's women that are really good. They're better than me for sure, but they never reach the level of like a Shane van boning who's like one of the best ever. They just don't get to that place.

3 (1h 58m 33s):
I just think it's an interesting addition to the discussion because you are, you are always having the same conversation. Well what about if we get the hormone levels to here? Well, right. Actually we don't suggest that testosterone noble, what about people that have got naturally high levels of testosterone, da dah dah, dah, dah. Yeah.

2 (1h 58m 46s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 58m 47s):
It never gets to innate inbuilt unchangeable differences about our capacities, about when it comes to the field of play. And if you were to take, you know, the top a hundred female WNBA players and the top a hundred male NBA players, and you were to say, let's just shoot three free throws, right? Let's just see how many are made. The, that should be a pretty even playing field. and I bet that it would be, the disparity will be very high,

2 (1h 59m 18s):
Very high in the pool world. This the reason why I was bringing this up recently. A woman made it to the finals of a tournament with a transgender woman and just quit. She said, I'm not gonna play you

3 (1h 59m 31s):
In pool. Yeah.

2 (1h 59m 32s):
They got to a woman's tournament and the, this transgender woman, and by the way, with pool tournaments, I guarantee you they're not like checking estrogen level. There's zero control. All you have to do is say, I'm a woman. And you could play, I could say I'm a woman and I could play put on a dress and I'll play. Fuck you. I'm a woman. And if you let it happen, you're gonna get crazy people that do this. And this lady, she took a stand. She's like, you're not a woman. I, I quit. You saw that Shook your hand.

3 (1h 59m 57s):
You saw that Canadian power lifting coach that just entered a, a competition. Yeah. With the b with like, just didn't do it. He was like, yeah, yeah.

2 (2h 0m 3s):
I'm a woman now. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's really Bazar that they're letting this happen. It really is. It's so strange. It's like women's rights have gone out the window in the, in in this sense over the name of virtue. The virtue that you're, you're a good person and you say trans women or women, okay. In real life maybe. Yeah. But not on sports. You're a biological male. Like, this is the same thing as if you, if you tell someone, Hey don, don't do steroids now, but I've done steroids straight every day for 20 years and I'm so fucking stronger, run through a wall, but I'm gonna stop doing steroids. and I wanna compete with natural people. Well, fuck you, fuck you. You cheated.

2 (2h 0m 43s):
You changed your physique, you changed it. Well that's exactly what you would say for a woman. If you had a woman athlete and that woman athlete developed a male voice and giant muscles, but was still a woman was beating up all these women, you'd be like, oh, that woman was on the sauce. She cheated. She cheated. Well, if you're going through puberty, guess what? Fuck face you're taking testosterone. If you're, you really say you're a woman and you're going through all that and then you're after puberty, you're an adult and then you're going into your thirties. You're have your whole life of producing testosterone. You have male tendon strength, you have the male bone density of different shaped hips. You have, everything's different. Your competitive drive's different.

2 (2h 1m 23s):
It's so dumb that we're having this conversation and the people that suffer the biological women. And that was the thing that we were always supposed to be protecting with Title ix. That's the, the whole idea of developing regulations so that women have sports that they can play that are just with women. It's a fair playing field. The same reason why you don't let third graders play with fucking high school seniors. It's real simple. You, you have someone play within the parameters of a fair playing environment and you're always gonna get outliers. You're always gonna get people that are like exceptionally strong and fast for their weight and their age. And then you're gonna be at people that are struggling physically. They just have no experience whatsoever in athletics.

2 (2h 2m 4s):
And you gotta find the comfortable medium, but it's within a fair parameter of the biological gender. This fucking thing that's on your birth certificate. What is it? That's what you can compete in whatever the fuck you, what's your chromosomes? Do you have XY Yeah, you gotta go with those guys. That's it. You don't wanna fight anymore. Okay, well then don't fight. But you can't beat up women just 'cause you decide you're a woman. That's crazy. That's just crazy. It doesn't make any sense that we're allowing that. It doesn't, it's not compassionate, it's not open-minded, it's not progressive. It's just stupid. You're just caught in some cult-like mindset. And the people that are suffering are the women, the women that would be competing in just sports.

2 (2h 2m 45s):
You see that thing in Canada where the volleyball players, there's five biological males on a volleyball team and the the biological women were sitting there on the bench waiting while the biological males were dominating this fucking woman's volleyball game. See if you can find that because it's so crazy. It's like we it's literally South Park. It's South Park. Like we're watching South Park.

3 (2h 3m 5s):
Strong woman.

2 (2h 3m 6s):
Yeah, it's, it's absolute insanity. You have crazy people. Crazy people

3 (2h 3m 11s):
Talking about basketball. I had Seth Stevens Davidowitz on the show. He's a, a ex Google data scientist. He wrote a book in 30 days using ai, breaking down a ton of stuff that no one ever knew about basketball. and it is so fucking cool for every inch in height that you gain the chance of you going to the NBA doubles. Whoa. So six foot one is twice as likely as six foot and six foot two is twice as likely as six one. and it just continues to go. Whoa. Continues to go all the way up. The most common name. Oh, here we go. I was gonna wait,

2 (2h 3m 43s):
Sorry. Go

3 (2h 3m 44s):
Ahead. Get it in there.

2 (2h 3m 44s):
Most common name, five trans players dominate women's college volleyball game. Come on. This

3 (2h 3m 50s):
Is so crazy. How many plays is there on a game of volley volley? Well, there're actually on different teams.

2 (2h 3m 54s):
Yeah, there, there's like three on one, two on the other. Okay. And they played during the entire game while the biological women sat on the bench.

3 (2h 3m 60s):
Let's see if I can pick them out. Oh god. This is a show them playing. This is a real,

2 (2h 4m 6s):
Oh, so people were freaking out, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. Well they should be freaking out. It's fucking insanity. It's insanity. And it's this thing where you're supposed to pretend that they're not lunatics. Like there's a man in Canada that was a 50-year-old man that decided he was, he identified as a 15-year-old girl. So he is competing in girl swimming events and he was changing in the same locker room as the girls. Hey, what are the odds that guy's a creep

3 (2h 4m 33s):
Might be one to put on the watch list for the police? I think.

2 (2h 4m 35s):
What are you talking about? It's so dumb. It's just so dumb that we're accepting it and more people are accepting it than should. It's, it's insane. and it, it shouldn't be a sign of whether or not you're progressive or you, you should recognize that this is a dangerous opening, that you're leaving a very dangerous opening here. And the people that are suffering are the women and the women that are athletes that are suffering. It's gonna ruin their chances at college. It could change the direction of their life. They might not get a scholarship. They should get because they had to compete against biological males.

3 (2h 5m 6s):
The enhanced games get everybody off to the enhanced games. Yeah. The steroid Olympics. Peter Te just put a ton of money into that. Yeah,

2 (2h 5m 12s):
That's gonna be interesting. How long before the government cracks down on them.

3 (2h 5m 16s):
Well the problem is, I I, it seems like from what I read, the it seems like they supply the steroids.

2 (2h 5m 24s):
That's what I'm saying. Like, that seems

3 (2h 5m 26s):
Super illegal. Like, hang on, super illegal. Are you, are you a sporting buddy? Are you a my steroid dealer?

2 (2h 5m 30s):
And then you have to think like, what kind of an influence does that have on young people? Like one of the things about steroids being shunned and illegal, even if it was irrational in some sense like that, if you have an adult male and this guy is 35 years old and he just decides, you know what, I wanna take steroids. Why is that not okay? But you can prescribe him a ton of different fucking things that can kill him. You can prescribe him anti-anxiety medication. You could prescribe him painkillers. You can prescribe him ozempic because he wants to lose weight. You could prescribe him all kinds of things that might have adverse health risks.

2 (2h 6m 11s):
But you can't, nothing that makes you stronger. Nothing. We, we have a limitation on that. It's very odd and I can see how you would make it banned for sports. But why is it banned for people? Like says

3 (2h 6m 23s):
Who I just wanna get jacked says

2 (2h 6m 25s):
Who, but it's, it's like says who says one adult says another adult can't do. This is like a bunch of Do we does, do people vote on that? Did medical experts vote on that? If they did, how'd they let fentanyl in? You know,

3 (2h 6m 37s):
Like I can't, I can't remember. I, I feel like it wouldn't be surprising to me if the cascade was this ruins fairness in sports and then we retroactively change the gym rat normal population rule set to ensure that the sporting rule set isn't wrecked. I feel like it was probably the trickle down that way from sports and elite sports and tested sports into the public. But Derek from more place, more data has talked about this. How if it hadn't been for the fact that there were controlled substances, we would have way safer, better researched compounds. You know, we're still using like trend alone is I, it's from like the sixties or the seventies or something and

2 (2h 7m 16s):
It's got, that stuff's supposed to be scary. Oh

3 (2h 7m 18s):
Yeah.

2 (2h 7m 18s):
I've heard scary stories of people being on that. Me too. And losing their fucking mind. Like literally

3 (2h 7m 23s):
Insomnia. You get this cough, you get, you put, it's a trend. Cough trend cough. Yeah. You pin pin yourself and you get this trend cough, supposedly terrifying. Going back to that basketball thing, the most common name of basketball players in the NBA Christopher, I missed my calling.

2 (2h 7m 40s):
Damn.

3 (2h 7m 41s):
The reason that's the most, yes. So the reason for this, and it's really interesting. Seth used a ton of different AI programs to analyze all of this data and he said he was able to do what would've taken him three years in 30 days. And he wrote this book in 30 days. Whoa. It's insane. It's really, really good. Who makes the NBAI think it's called. And the reason that it's Christopher is that Christopher is the sort of name that is given by middle class parents to their child. So it's really an indicator of social class. And there is this belief that in basketball it's a meritocracy where the underclass hardworking athlete can clamber his way up.

3 (2h 8m 24s):
You know, this is LeBron. LeBron single mother who is 16 years old, makes it to the top. He's an outlier. That's not that common. The most common path is someone that comes from two parent household that's relatively well off and you know, like classic advantages that you get. Christopher is the sort of name that's given. I think Michael is another one that's up there. And he does this big word map thing where you can see the size of the name and the bigger the name, the more likely it is. Yeah. One of the other things that no one really ever thinks about is hand span. Hand span. One of the biggest determinants for success in the sport. So Shaq has a 14 inch hand span from finger to hand because palming the ball, Lord, you know, if you are up there Yeah.

3 (2h 9m 5s):
And you are able to palm the ball, that's a huge advantage. Yeah, that big. Yeah. It's terrifying. That's so big. Absolutely terrifying.

2 (2h 9m 11s):
Just grab that ball. Yeah, makes sense. Makes sense. To give you an advantage. Yeah. It's a, it's fascinating when you break down data like that and you try to figure out what are the contributing factors. I wonder if they've done that with martial arts. I wonder if someone's done that with fighters like height and reach and things like

3 (2h 9m 29s):
That. What would you be interested in?

2 (2h 9m 30s):
Height and reach? It's a big factor, but it's also like, are you as durable? Like sometimes the stockier

3 (2h 9m 37s):
Neck width maybe something like

2 (2h 9m 38s):
That. Yeah. Neck width, the size of the chin. I think it's jaw size.

3 (2h 9m 42s):
Hand size would definitely be one. Oh. So I worked on the front door of nightclubs for forever running our events. And one of the really naughty things that door staff would do, maybe they do this in the in America as well, is they get like a lead cylinder and in their leather gloves they put it on the inside. Yeah. So it, the hand now weighs a pound and a half more than usual you hit someone. Yeah. And that's like a fucking hammer. Yeah. So if that's the case, that rule is massive hand equals damage. So someone that has denser bones or more muscular hands or bigger hands, that's basically just more weight on the end of your arms that you're swinging at someone's face.

3 (2h 10m 24s):
So yeah, I mean

2 (2h 10m 25s):
Giant advantage.

3 (2h 10m 26s):
I think that breaking down sports in this way, that's why Moneyball was so cool, right? People loved like, oh my god, this is is so, this is so interesting because I

2 (2h 10m 35s):
Never really paid attention to that. What is Moneyball?

3 (2h 10m 37s):
So Moneyball was a assessment of the MLB done by a guy that was picked up by the Oakland A and he was using very advanced mathematics to look at, to look at. You got something Jimmy? I was just

9 (2h 10m 52s):
Say Billy Beans, his name. I was trying to just, yeah,

3 (2h 10m 54s):
Billy Beans for you. And he looked at undervalued players and what contributes to winning a game. And there were players that would bat in a weird way that would throw a pitch in a weird way. But their numbers were fantastic. And he was the first guy that really, really assessed the numbers of baseball in this mountain. Now it's very, very common. Baseball is largely a game of maths. They know exactly where hitters like to swing. They move the field around based on all of the statistics that they've seen, all of the analyses that's been done. But yet the movie Moneyball with Brad Pitt is outstanding. If you've never seen it, you absolutely should watch it. It's so much fun. But yeah, I think this assessment, see, I don't think it removes the magic of sport, don don't think it gets rid of the magic of sport to de,

2 (2h 11m 42s):
But it just makes people nerd out harder

3 (2h 11m 43s):
Deconstruct. Yeah. and it allows us to obsess. It

2 (2h 11m 46s):
Still doesn't make it easy to do. So when someone does hit a fucking home run, it's still amazing. Yeah.

3 (2h 11m 51s):
Even,

9 (2h 11m 52s):
But this is a good scene from the movie. I'm not gonna play the whole thing, but just what's going on here is he's explaining to them like the idea of what he was just talking about the Moneyball. But there's a bunch of old scouts. These guys have been around for the whole forever and they're just like, whatcha talking about? We don't, we can't do it that way. It kind, it's about really, it

2 (2h 12m 6s):
Kind of talks about, so it just figures it out numerically.

9 (2h 12m 8s):
And spoiler alert is it works. They won the World Series like the next year or something like that.

2 (2h 12m 12s):
Mm. And it's based on a true story. Oh yeah. Yeah.

3 (2h 12m 15s):
It's

2 (2h 12m 15s):
I think pretty active. So you had yourself an autistic kid.

9 (2h 12m 19s):
Yeah, that's exactly

3 (2h 12m 19s):
What you, that's

2 (2h 12m 20s):
Exactly, that's basically it was, yeah. Yeah.

9 (2h 12m 23s):
That's

3 (2h 12m 23s):
The, that's the secret advantage. Find people that have got autism.

2 (2h 12m 26s):
There's an advantage in that. I

9 (2h 12m 28s):
Just heard the, the guy that, the chiefs that just won the Super Bowl, they have a guy like that that's worked with the coach the entire time they call him. Shit. I forget what they call him. He has his name. He's like the analytics guy. They're like, no one knows what his job is,

3 (2h 12m 38s):
Mr. Numbers or something. Listen

9 (2h 12m 40s):
To him and we trust whatever he says. Fuck. That's cool.

2 (2h 12m 42s):
It's pretty cool. Yeah.

3 (2h 12m 43s):
Yeah, dude, let's talk about this. This special council report thing that just

2 (2h 12m 48s):
Came up. Oh yes. That we were gonna do that before we peed. Yes. Yeah. Yes. Special council report on bidet. Yeah.

3 (2h 12m 53s):
So these Afghanistan documents, these top secret Afghanistan documents that was supposedly held in his garage. So you'd say there's photos of how it was, it was just an open box in the middle of the garage. This wasn't,

2 (2h 13m 7s):
Wasn't it in his Corvette or something?

3 (2h 13m 10s):
I'm not sure. The photos that I've seen are just an open box with like files in. Like you just have lying around here that need to be cleaned away. Okay. I

2 (2h 13m 16s):
Think he had one of those boxes in the backseat of his Corvette. Well, or the It is Corvette. Yeah. There's this Corvette. What? That's a Corvette that doesn't even have a backseat. See the

9 (2h 13m 28s):
Corvette, I guess. Yeah.

2 (2h 13m 29s):
Cor, he's got parked, so he, that's a fucking dope Corvette. That's like my year. I love that year.

3 (2h 13m 34s):
That's pretty

2 (2h 13m 34s):
Nice. So the classified docks were found in his garage where his Corvette was. Yeah. So there's the, there's the box right there. That's it. Yeah.

3 (2h 13m 43s):
Just

2 (2h 13m 43s):
So the main and what's in those things?

3 (2h 13m 45s):
I classified Afghanistan documents. I think it was from earlier in,

2 (2h 13m 50s):
Oh my God, you could read them.

3 (2h 13m 52s):
Garage box after repackage repackaging January 3rd, 2023.

2 (2h 13m 57s):
So did he forget he had 'em?

3 (2h 13m 59s):
So that's the argument. And the thing that most people are jumping on to do with this report isn't that it's the assessment that I think it was her, that's the dude that did it. It was the assessment of his mental state.

2 (2h 14m 14s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 14m 14s):
Basically. Yeah. Mr. Hurs suggested that Mr. Biden's memory was failing and questioned some of his actions, even though the special counsel had found no basis to prosecute the president. The issue that he says basically in the report is if you're trying to prosecute this guy, Mr. Bidet would likely present himself to the jury as he did during our interview with him. Which is as a sympathetic, well-meaning elderly man with a poor memory. That's literally what it says. Yeah. In the report. Yeah. Well-meaning elderly man with a poor memory. So basically you can't prosecute this guy because he's not Compass Menis, but you can let him run for the president of the United States in November.

3 (2h 14m 57s):
Yeah. So that's the, that's the world that we've managed to get into. But, but

2 (2h 15m 1s):
Don't, don't you think that that's a ruse, which is him running for president? I think.

3 (2h 15m 5s):
You don't think he's gonna run?

2 (2h 15m 7s):
No, no, I think they're gonna get rid of him. I think they're gonna move him out. They're gonna force him to step down. That's what I think. If I had to guess and it's just speculation. I'd say there's setting up Gavin Newsom for it. That's what I say. That's what I think. That's what it looks like to me. I think they, the more, more and more comes out about this stuff and more and more comes out about the Barisma thing and the Penn State thing. You know, the, where the Chinese donated money to Penn State, and then he got a million dollar a year gig where he didn't even have to show up. That's old school. That's like mafia stuff. Was it a million dollars a year? How much was it that he got from Penn State?

2 (2h 15m 48s):
And he, he was telling people, he said, I'm a Professor Penn straight. He never even went there. Professor didn't teach one class. Look at some of it is part of it's fun. Like if he wasn't the president, it would be really fun because he is like, oh, he is making stuff up. He calls people the wrong name. Talks, talks about someone that's dead. You know, it's just, there's, it's constant. It was

3 (2h 16m 6s):
Penn, not Penn

2 (2h 16m 6s):
State, not Penn State. Excuse me. Penn, yeah. Was paid $1 million a year to teach, but never taught a single class. Yeah. University of Pennsylvania. That's what it is. That is a, that's a mob job. You know. and I had a friend of mine who had one of those jobs. He didn't have to really go to the Javit Center.

3 (2h 16m 25s):
It's like an honorary thing.

2 (2h 16m 26s):
He got a, he was a mob guy. He got a gig. The, yeah, you got a gig. And there was like, if you had made a, a union negotiation back in the day, like we're talking back in the day day, they would throw in a bunch of no work jobs. So no work jobs were part of the thing. It's

3 (2h 16m 41s):
Just a little sweetener on top.

2 (2h 16m 42s):
Yeah. So if you're a, a mob guy and you're connected to some construction company, they would, they would find companies that they would buy into and own pieces of so that they could kind of funnel their money out. They could say, I'm in the construction business, or I'm in the sanitation business. They always had something that they were attached to, but they had no, no show jobs. You got real money, you know, you got a real fucking salary, real paycheck every week. And you never did shit. You didn't do a goddamn thing. You never went there. You're just a mob guy.

3 (2h 17m 10s):
I can't help feeling kind of sad about how difficult it must be to be Joe Bidet. Like if you are this dude who is I mean, what the fuck are they pumping him with? Like, he's fun stuff. I mean he's having a great time. Like first thing in the morning, Mr. President come in for your happy pills or whatever. Yeah, exactly.

2 (2h 17m 29s):
That is fucking iv testosterone and cocaine Right into his system.

3 (2h 17m 33s):
So you think, you know this guy who's holding on as best he can, like trying to get through the presidency and there's all of this scrutiny and people are making jokes about him and he's got the fucking red, his team are like, oh, let's put a fucking meme out of him with red eyes after the Super Bowl. And then he's gotta deal with all the rest of that stuff. What is

2 (2h 17m 49s):
That?

3 (2h 17m 50s):
And then I, it just makes me feel like, fuck. Like, that must be really rough to be that guy to actually be the human That is Joe Bidet. That must be really fucking like don don't know. You're gonna be aware, you're gonna be self-aware of the fact that you're failing, that your mental facul faculties aren't there and you're like being pushed and just this RPMs being pushed higher and higher. 8,000, 9,010.

2 (2h 18m 11s):
I bet he doesn't do much. I bet the cabinet takes care of everything. I bet the press secretary makes all the tweets. I bet they dope 'em up. They, every now and then they make 'em talk and they probably give 'em a lot of amphetamines or something. They probably give 'em something to make. I don't know. It's offensive. It's amphetamines. I would imagine if I was, if

3 (2h 18m 29s):
I, that's you using your Hitler, what I would Hitler model to what

2 (2h 18m 32s):
I was gonna do if I, if I had a guy like that and they say, Hey Joe, like this guy's, like he's really out of it. You know, let's pretend it's not bidet some other guy that has to go and speak in front of people. He's really old and you know, like, okay, he, you know, he could die. He could die if you do this. But what I would say is like, let's start banging him up with testosterone. Give him, let's go like a good dose, like ramp him up slowly. We want to get him up to like 30-year-old levels. And then some kind of amphetamine and then a big nootropic stack. Like a heavy stack theanine, you know, acetylcholine

3 (2h 19m 5s):
Alpha GPC. Yeah.

2 (2h 19m 6s):
Alpha GPC. Yeah. Let's stack shit. and I want like multiple modalities. I want a bunch of different ones coming out. Mushroom ones, all kinds of stuff. You gotta, we gotta do our best here. The

3 (2h 19m 16s):
Adaptogens. Yeah. We've got everything going in there. And

2 (2h 19m 18s):
Then we're just, I gotta break things down on cue cards. I mean we can do this. And that's what they've done. Yeah, they've definitely done the cue cards part. Like there's, there's photos of his cue cards. Like stand there, say brief remark. Like it's all capital letters. You seen those? No. He holds onto them and then they take pictures of it and they zoom in on the picture and they go, look what it says. God. See, see if you can find that, Jamie.

3 (2h 19m 37s):
Yeah, it's, it's like

2 (2h 19m 38s):
It's, you can't, you shouldn't have, like this is his card, the secret presidential cue cards. Oh, he has cue cards for staff too, if that makes sense. But there was a cue card that he had that they were reading while he was on stage where he was giving some sort of a presidential address. It was like,

3 (2h 19m 53s):
You enter the Roosevelt room and say hello to participants. You take your seat,

2 (2h 19m 59s):
You give brief comments all caps for you. Oh

3 (2h 20m 2s):
Man, I feel so bad

2 (2h 20m 3s):
For him. That's, that's amazing. I feel so passion. It's amazing. Well, he just can't keep a thought in his head when he starts talking about things. He forgets what he's talking about all the time. He goes, well, whatever. He just says, well, whatever. and it just drifts off

3 (2h 20m 15s):
Someone. So he did this after the report came out, he did this emergency press conference, which wasn't, I don't think a particularly good idea. How

2 (2h 20m 24s):
Did it go?

3 (2h 20m 26s):
I would say suboptimally. Someone said, did

2 (2h 20m 30s):
He fail to impress?

3 (2h 20m 32s):
Someone asked him, how good is your memory? And he said, my memory is so bad I let you speak.

2 (2h 20m 41s):
Oh boy.

3 (2h 20m 43s):
Like what?

2 (2h 20m 44s):
Oh boy.

3 (2h 20m 45s):
Sorry. What? My memory was, my memory is so good. I let you speak. What? What? There's no way that I can repurpose that quote for it to make sense. No. Meanwhile, the, oh no new president of El Salvador just won with an 85% vote. 85%. So El Salvador went from having the highest murder rate in the world to now the highest incarceration rate in the world. Whoa. This guy is locking up everyone. They have a brand new 40,000 person prison that's the size of seven football stadiums. Whoa. Jamie, have a look at this.

3 (2h 21m 27s):
This football stadium thing. It is, it is wild what they've done. And he's just, he's cleaned up the streets. He's really, he's gone super aggressive. There's some dangers of what he's done, which is they're being very indiscriminate with who gets, I'm sure convicted 12 year olds can be, I haven't heard if they are, but 12 year olds can be treated like adults and thrown into the prison as well. You know, if they break down the door and come in this room and you are a bad guy and me and Jamie are not bad guys, we're probably gonna prison as well. So there's probably a good bit of collateral damage that's come with this. But this dude is like, it's insane. It's insane what he's been able to do and yeah, 85% was the the vote.

3 (2h 22m 11s):
Yeah. Here we go.

2 (2h 22m 15s):
Wow. Inside El Salvador's mega prison.

3 (2h 22m 18s):
Turn the volume on Jamie. You'll

13 (2h 22m 19s):
Find some of it. Alba though it's most dangerous gang members packed into massive cells. Towers of bunk beds in what looks like bird cages. It's a source of pride for President Na that almost two years ago declared a war on crime, a detention center the size of seven football stadiums with capacity to hold 40,000 prisoners. The largest of its kind in Latin America, known as the Center for Terrorism Confinement. It opened its doors in 2023 after the government declared a state of emergency. The move limiting civil rights.

3 (2h 22m 59s):
Look at the tattoos, dude. Look at

2 (2h 23m 1s):
That.

13 (2h 23m 1s):
Tens of thousands of gang members. Wow. The director says the detainees have to sleep on hard surfaces to avoid giving them mattresses that could be used to hide objects. Their diet consists of simple meals that repeat every day.

3 (2h 23m 21s):
Beans, rice, one hard egg in the morning.

2 (2h 23m 31s):
Wow. It's awful. Yeah. This guy just put the hammer down. That was, you know, when Dunkin Truss home, when we were in LA when the George Floyd riots hit one of the first things. He says, dude, we're gonna have a right wing authoritarian president now that's gonna be the next person. Like the next, like when this all collapses, the only response to that is people go hard. Right. They go hard. Right. Pictures are crazy.

3 (2h 23m 56s):
Oh my God.

2 (2h 23m 57s):
That's nuts. That's nuts.

3 (2h 24m 3s):
I think it's MS 13 is one of the big gangs. I can't remember what the other one's called.

2 (2h 24m 8s):
It's as if like, if you wanted to, oh

3 (2h 24m 10s):
My

2 (2h 24m 10s):
God, stop this at its tracks, you kind of, you're not gonna cure those guys. There's like two bathrooms in each stall or each cell

3 (2h 24m 19s):
Also. And how many people in each cell? Hundred people. Two bath. Two.

2 (2h 24m 22s):
Two stalls. Oh my god.

3 (2h 24m 23s):
Oh my god.

2 (2h 24m 25s):
Oh my

3 (2h 24m 25s):
God. If you gotta go, you gotta go.

2 (2h 24m 28s):
But I guess, yeah, if you wanna really clean it up, it's not gonna be pretty. No. If you run a really clean up, a very dangerous gang infested place, it's not gonna be pretty.

3 (2h 24m 38s):
You saw Batman, that's what he did, right? Yeah. Recodes like 105. 500 people. Yeah. The, The insight around during a time of upheaval and uncertainty, looking for a more dominant leader and more authoritarian leader that has roots in evolution as well. So this is something that will store talks about, which is there's multiple routes to status. There's fewer roots to leadership. So there tends to be two, one being dominance and the other being prestige. So dominance is the more authoritarian you will do this because there are negative outcomes if you don't do this. and it, it's more overbearing. Prestige is earning reputation through being positive sum during times of war.

3 (2h 25m 24s):
And strife, tribes would look for a more dominant leader because you have threat from the outside. So you're going to have someone that's going to be aggressive, they're going to lean in, they're gonna try and fix this problem Of course. That's going to be who you choose. Problem is if you have someone who is a dominant leader for times of war, when it becomes a time of peace, that dominant leader isn't just going to step aside. They're dominant, they're gonna hold onto this power. They've usually managed to embed themselves. They've got sycophants, they've got a distribution network of people that can help to enforce their rule. That's the problem that you have. But this has absolutely has its roots. Evolutionarily

2 (2h 26m 2s):
Also, what a Bazar way to run anything. To have the guy who runs it be very vulnerable and only have a four year term. And then you can only do two of those four year terms. And then people are constantly trying to figure out a way to manipulate the reality of the world to get their guy past you, including high level gaslighting. I mean, we've seen some wild gaslighting,

3 (2h 26m 28s):
Serious fuckery

2 (2h 26m 29s):
Past couple of weeks talking about the economy. There's so much I

3 (2h 26m 33s):
Missed that. What was that?

2 (2h 26m 34s):
Gaslighting? Well, well one of 'em was Gavin Newsom talking about how great bidet was and how what the, the Democrat's record that this has been one of the greatest presidencies ever. Full stop. It's like hot gas in your face. It's burning your lungs. It's just gas lighting. It's gas lighting. You can't have a great economy if you're spending hundreds of billions of dollars financing wars overseas. It's not even possible. You're gonna have inflation. You're gonna have a, what'd you do? How'd you get all that money? Where'd you get another 95 billion that you passed in the middle of the night? Like what is, where's all that going? Who's paying it back?

3 (2h 27m 11s):
Yeah. I mean, woo. That's

2 (2h 27m 12s):
A lot of money.

3 (2h 27m 13s):
I often think about the, the guys that are staples of the government, not the people that are part of the president.

2 (2h 27m 21s):
Say it, say it. The deep state.

3 (2h 27m 22s):
The deep state. Thanks. Yes. The people that are in charge, we all know who we mean. Yeah. Taylor Swift.

2 (2h 27m 31s):
Isn't that a, that is a hilarious fucking

3 (2h 27m 33s):
Theory. I love, I love the conspiracy theories around that, but

2 (2h 27m 35s):
Did you see that the, the, there was actually like a conversation that was had about, it was what was the actual roots of it? There's an actual video where they talk about it and like, God, it was like 2017 or something like that. They talk about using a, a really popular person. Like Taylor Swift was like an asset.

3 (2h 27m 55s):
The Taylor Swift and Travis Kelsey's relationship is a deep state psyop to be able to wild. I love that conspiracy

2 (2h 28m 3s):
Theory. It's a wild conspiracy. But the, because the problem with the conspiracy is they're saying this is why Taylor Swift is so big. Like, no, no. You gotta see how 15-year-old, like I have a 15-year-old daughter when they're around like Taylor Swift songs, they all scream, they go nuts. They love it. They actually,

3 (2h 28m 17s):
Yeah. That's not a psyop. She

2 (2h 28m 18s):
Speaks to them. It's not a psyop. She's super talented, fucking driven as hell. Writes her own songs. Like she speaks to them. You know, don don't know what's a great, the, the whole thing is, you know, it's wild. It's wild to watch a new Michael Jackson. 'cause that's kind of what it is. That's

3 (2h 28m 34s):
A good point. It's a good person I mean how many times? I would love to know how many times the Super Bowl cut to her

16 (2h 28m 40s):
Over shit.

3 (2h 28m 41s):
I

9 (2h 28m 42s):
Saw someone win a bet that was like over 15 or something

3 (2h 28m 44s):
Like that. There was an over under on the number of cuts to Taylor Swift. Let's

2 (2h 28m 48s):
Go I don. If she chugged a beer, one of em, she chugged a beer guy, slammed it down. I know

3 (2h 28m 53s):
Won a bet because he bet on the Streaker bet. And then he, he then Was he the streaker? Yeah, that's what he said. That's what the plan was like. Oh my God. That's a

2 (2h 29m 1s):
Well, if they don't specify, that's the good move. If they don't specify that you I mean look a deal's a deal.

3 (2h 29m 9s):
That is a 200 IQ move. The only other 200 IQ move that I've seen recently, there's a new type of sexual kink, which is called Solo Poly solo. So polyamorous, but solo. So fuck boys have rebranded themselves as Solo poly.

2 (2h 29m 26s):
Okay.

3 (2h 29m 27s):
That is a 3000 IQ move. Don't kink shame me. I'm not sleeping around. I'm solo poly. Mm.

2 (2h 29m 34s):
Solo polyamorous means someone who has multiple intimate relationships with people, but has an independent or single lifestyle. They may not live with partners, share finances or have a desire to reach traditional relationship milestones which partners lives become more intertwined. Hmm. Well I think that seems to make sense with all the dating apps today and all the Instagram dms and all the people just, there's so many more options people have today. It makes sense that more people would agree to polyamorous interactions. They want to hedge their bets. It's a weird time to be a, a young person. Like imagine you're like just getting outta high school, just getting into college now and you're, you're entering into the romantic workforce.

2 (2h 30m 16s):
Like good

3 (2h 30m 17s):
Luck the meat grinder. Good luck.

2 (2h 30m 19s):
Yeah. Good luck. It's crazy out there. Yeah, it's crazy.

3 (2h 30m 22s):
The percentage of people that say they're not looking for casual or long-term relationships is at an all time high. It's really, really scary as

2 (2h 30m 30s):
Our country music sales, there's like a, a swing in the other direction too. What do you mean country? More people are like, look, we've gotta get to a simpler life. There's more people who listen to country music now than I think ever before.

3 (2h 30m 41s):
Right. So they, they're finding

2 (2h 30m 42s):
There's a reaction to that. Like, don don't wanna do this.

3 (2h 30m 44s):
They're finding solitude from a confusing world and Luke COO's songs. Yeah.

2 (2h 30m 50s):
They're gonna guy never tweet like sings about tweets, you know?

3 (2h 30m 54s):
Right. Yes. Fucking hell. Well I saw fuck Jelly Roll was on the Super Bowl commercial. That was pretty cool to see him. Yeah, it was cool. Yeah. And then Shane Gillis managed to pop half of his face in when the camera pan in on like the Bud Light balcony or whatever it was called.

2 (2h 31m 11s):
Yeah. Shane Gillis is now a spokesperson for Bud Light. And we kind of manifested it on the podcast 'cause we were talking about it so many times. Like why wouldn't they? They use you. Yep. They're fucking smart. They was one of the funniest guys alive who's a legitimate Bud Light drinker. He never stopped. Even during the controversy, he never stopped the first couple of shows he did afterwards. He wouldn't bring cans on stage. He poured into a glass 'cause he didn't want anybody to hear it. He's still drinking Bud Light. And then on the podcast he just like, you're gonna drink Bud Light out in the open. He's like, fuck yeah

3 (2h 31m 40s):
Dude. When you find your beer, you find your beer.

2 (2h 31m 43s):
Well, with Shane, that's the case. It was just a match made in heaven. Like it's smart, it's the right time that they could take a chance on a wild dude like that.

3 (2h 31m 50s):
What a turnaround man. I mean. I, I'd said this at the time, I thought it was interesting that a lot of people whose common talking point was don't judge someone just based on one misdeed that they do, based on one misspoken thing about some new social campaign or whatever it might be. Didn't seem to extend the same kind of leeway to Bud Light. Now, I don't know, I know

2 (2h 32m 15s):
Weird, right?

3 (2h 32m 16s):
I know how deep that ran. There's someone that says, it was a marketing intern. There was another that says it went right to the top and you know, they were, they, this was, this shows that Bud Light were the, the lib cooks that we've always knew, known that they were. I'm like, don don't know. But if it wasn't infused into the company, what you're doing is taking a very isolated incident and using that as the canary in the coal mine to say, see, they're part of the deep state. It's, it's, they're taking over, they're doing the whatever.

2 (2h 32m 45s):
Well, sort of, it was, it was not one thing. It was two things that, that, that combined together. So the one thing was the Dylan Mulvaney picture on the beer can, that drove people nuts. But then there was the video of the woman who was in charge, who was explaining that they had to rework the image of the brand and that it was a fratty, sort of like bro heavy, I forget the words she used, but it was a juvenile. She was trying to, but it's literally you're talking about your entire customer base. So she's deciding that the customer base should now be trans or the customer base. I mean literally I mean, she's literally deciding she's going to make the customer base gay.

2 (2h 33m 27s):
It's gonna be friendly to the LBGT community is gonna be sponsoring floats on Pride Parade. And that's what they did. Like in under her guidance. She was like, I'm gonna fix this. We're gonna make it just like, I believe the world is coming from universities that are hyper liberal into a, a community where you're in a, you know, corporation that's also subject to all those DEI restrictions. And you think this is like the way of the world today. And then you do that one thing and then they catch you on video saying all those things about the customers. And then the coup de gras kid Rock shoots your beer when Kid Rock shoots your beer. That's

3 (2h 34m 6s):
A wrap Fucking game over That is until you get Shane Gillis. Yeah.

2 (2h 34m 10s):
Shane Gil, Shane Gillis Keep, and then, and then you sponsor the UFC. Like it'll, it'll turn back around now. Oh, it can turn back around. Shane Gillis on stage with Zach Bryan. Yeah. Oh shit. That's amazing. When was this at the

9 (2h 34m 21s):
Super Bowl? They had a big party in Vegas.

3 (2h 34m 23s):
Did he sing? Yeah.

9 (2h 34m 24s):
I mean it's the revival.

2 (2h 34m 25s):
I don't know which song is he singing all night? Revival. Yeah. Oh, that's in Incred.

17 (2h 34m 39s):
Put Johnny on the vinyl.

2 (2h 34m 42s):
Wow. The whole crowd sings along to that. I went to see Zach when he was out here and they did that. He tried to get me to sing. I'm like, fuck you. I can tell jokes. I'm not going out there. I don't want, I just, I don't want intention tell jokes. I just

3 (2h 34m 52s):
Wanna enjoy punch someone in the face. Yeah.

2 (2h 34m 53s):
And I want to enjoy the show, but it was fucking amazing show, man. He's so talented.

3 (2h 34m 58s):
Where was that at?

2 (2h 34m 59s):
That was out here. It was like the two step festival. Two step in, yeah. Where was that? Georgetown? Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Not far from here.

3 (2h 35m 7s):
I learned from Schultz this interesting thing that I, I called Schultz's Razor, which is, it's not coordination, it's cowardice from the outside. Things look like a coordinated attack from the inside. It looks like people not trying to lose their jobs. So I think a lot of the presumption is that there is some grand plan, some grand, maybe it's a conspiracy or maybe it's just coordination. What it is from the inside is this guy has just bought a new house that his wife wanted and his kids go to private school and he needs to keep this job, man. And the thing that is currently being pushed at the moment is, okay, we need to, we, we need to go along with this new campaign.

3 (2h 35m 48s):
Sure. Let's just do this thing. That to me is a much more, I hope that it's true. The reason I hope it's true is it's a much more reassuring way for the world to be a lot of these incidents. Yeah. Because what it shows is that people are just responding to incentives. And if you can change the incentives, if you can change the social structure of this stuff, you can quite easily change behavior. If it's coordination as opposed to cowardice, that's much more difficult if everyone's actually bought into this and they're part of some deep state conspiracy and it's all psyop and all of this stuff that, that you go, oh, this is completely out of my control right now. And that, that's much more scary. But I think on balance, based on the stuff that I see, I think that Andrew's right.

3 (2h 36m 30s):
I think that it is more likely to be cowardice than coordination.

2 (2h 36m 34s):
Yeah. I think there's definitely both elements. I think spec specifically with some issues. There's, there's coordination online. And one of the ways they do that is through bots. They do that through social media campaigns that are like fake accounts or hired accounts. There's that too that, that does shift the narrative in a certain direction. But there's a lot of people that are terrified that they're gonna get fired. And there's a lot of people that are terrified. They're gonna get labeled or ostracized or kicked outta the social community so much. So they're willing to go along with really ridiculous stuff. 'cause they think like that's where the tide of progress is now. This is where the world is. And you know, you're, you're seeing both things happen.

2 (2h 37m 15s):
You're seeing cowardice and you're also seeing coordination. This, it's not, it's kind of naive to think that if you are a world power that is doing everything you can to sort of like balance things in your favor, including launching spy satellites, establishing a space force ramping up your nuclear capabilities, developing these weapons that fucking shred people. Yep. With precise impact, for sure. You're gonna do whatever you can to change the way a society views things and to, to influence things in a particular direction. He'd be a fool. Not to I mean, if that's what other countries are doing, you'd be a fool not to do that.

2 (2h 37m 55s):
You'd be a fool not to do it internationally. You'd be a fool not to do it locally. It's kind of the job of the person that's the evil fuck. That's, you know, running the world. Like that's part of the gig. Part of the gig is if you wanna lie to people about the economy, you want to gaslighting about the record of the president and gaslighting about the immigration crisis and gaslight 'em about how much money we're spending on these overseas wars. You would gaslight 'em online too. You wouldn't just have the fucking White House press secretary lie and make shit up. You'd have a bunch of people doing it all over the internet. You'd have a bunch of articles written that are just ridiculous. And then people would retweet him. Yeah. His age really is his superpower.

2 (2h 38m 35s):
Yeah. Man, Seth McFarland retweeted that and said, this is a a million brave, crazy so, so brilliant that they did this. I can't, I can't. What did he say? Seth McFarland says stunning

3 (2h 38m 47s):
And brave. It wasn't stunning and brave,

2 (2h 38m 49s):
Was it? No. No. He didn't say it like that. He's a funny guy. But he said something like, this is put written better than I could have written it, but exactly. My sentiments I was like, this is so crazy. You're talking about a guy who can't speak you. We all know you're doing this. You're gaslighting and you're doing it because you think that this is the good side and the bad side is bad. And you, you do whatever you can to change the way people view things. And so you have these people that are doing it for virtue signaling. They're doing it to signal to the tribe that they're a strong, dominant member of this tribe. And they even they're fighting for you. Yeah. There's something that I've been rattling around in my brain for some time and Bill Mc Bidden finally articulated here better than I ever could. It's worth a read from start to finish.

2 (2h 39m 29s):
Opinion, opinion, age matters. Which is why Biden's age is his superpower. Come on. That

3 (2h 39m 35s):
Actually sounds like a family guy. Sketch.

2 (2h 39m 37s):
A hundred percent. Well definitely a South Park sketch. It's crazy to say, but if you are that guy and you know, you're signaling to the tribe and you wanted everybody, like a rational person who is a left progressive person would say, we have to figure this out. Yeah. This is bad. This is bad. You can't just pretend it's good. The whole other side sees how bad it is. The world sees how bad people in quiet say how bad it is. Yeah. Most people in Hush are alone having dinner. You're like, what the fuck do we do? Yeah. Like, Trump's gonna win with this guy. Yep.

3 (2h 40m 11s):
I don't think no matter who wins in November, I don't think that either side is gonna accept the outcome.

2 (2h 40m 17s):
No way. Not anymore.

3 (2h 40m 18s):
I think that that, I think we saw one two elections ago, the final accepted and even that wasn't right. That was No, there's Russia collusion and all the rest of it. Right. And

2 (2h 40m 28s):
Then how much we gonna see of organized violence? How much are we gonna see of organized protestors? Organized protestors are a real thing. Funded protestors are a real thing. You know?

3 (2h 40m 38s):
Did that stuff turn out to be real about the piles of bricks? Yes. Yes. The piles of bricks.

2 (2h 40m 43s):
Yes. Yes. During George Floyd riots. Yeah. During the George Floyd riots. There was, and some of them they attributed to different things. Some of 'em, they said, well, it's just, it was a construction site that was nearby. It was just coincidence. And some of that I'm sure is true. But the people that I talked to that said that no stacks of bricks would just show up on their block. Like what?

3 (2h 41m 2s):
The net result of all of this, I think is people just feeling very uncertain about the future. don don't think that anyone's really convinced of any one narrative at the moment, but everybody is just uncertain and anxious. There's some really interesting surveys showing that the number of Americans that say I do not fully feel in control of my life just continues to go up. There's very much a externalized sense of agency. You know, it's, I I don't happen to the world. The world happens to me. Yeah. I'm skeptical about a lot of these things. It's basically a soup for ambient anxiety. Yeah. You're just causing people to be uncertain about stuff. and I don't know.

3 (2h 41m 43s):
I if you were trying to make people just feel more and more and more shitty, all that they're doing is spending time inside on their phones. They're watching porn. They don't have as many friends. The number of men in 1990 that had one or more close friends was that, sorry, that had zero close friends was 3%. In 2020 it was 15%. So it five Xd from 1990 to 2020. So people are more isolated than ever before. It doesn't surprise me that, that people feel despondent or nihilistic or fatalistic or uncertain or it's not good. And

2 (2h 42m 19s):
Then they're being manipulated. Correct. On top of that. So you're already vulnerable, you're already scared. And when you have more of an isolation from community, you're more likely to get sucked into subgroups. You're more likely to get sucked into echo chambers. 'cause like finally you have some people that are connecting with you. You don't have any connection. It's like part of this little social dance you're doing.

3 (2h 42m 39s):
You remember that we were talking about whether how you work out whether someone is telling the truth or not. This interesting sort of set of questions that I think people can ask themselves, which is, when was the last time that this person I am friends with, or whose content I consume on the internet? When was the last time that their opinion surprised me? When was the last time that they gave or take? And I was like, huh, I might not agree with it, but that's not what I would've predicted. Had I have known them and something occurs and their response is different. When was the last time that they probably admit, admitted that they were wrong about something? Also really good, difficult to fake signal of authenticity.

3 (2h 43m 23s):
When was the last time that they brought someone on or had a conversation with something that they don't agree with, or someone that they don't agree with for a reason other than just mocking them, but to genuinely understand what it is that they're doing. And then the fourth question is, do they bind their group together over the mutual hatred of an outgroup or the mutual love of an ingroup? Is it because of othering or is it because of Ussing and I? Think othering is always, that's the scapegoating. It's not about them. They're coming for us. It's this sort of anxiety fueled thing. But if you know one of someone's opinions and from it you can accurately predict everything else that they believe. They're not a serious thinker.

2 (2h 44m 1s):
Right. That's that, that, that is a, a hallmark of bad independent political journalism. It's like ripe with othering. It's ripe with casting the blame on the other side. It's ripe with not looking internally. It's, there's very little introspection and thought, maybe I'm wrong. It's always coming from a position of confidence that these other people are pieces of shit. And we're gonna lay out some out of context examples with no context into why they think they think this and what, what could steelman that and how could, how could we look at it from their perspective and what's wrong about it? No, it's every, everything is always like highlighting what's wrong, highlighting the cruelty gaslighting.

2 (2h 44m 46s):
And they're doing it because they're a part of an ideology. They're a part of a political group. They're part of this little gang. And they want, they want the love of the gang, you know? And there's people that fancy themselves. It's like hitman for the gang. You know, they're gonna go out there. And there's a lot of that during the, the, the Black Lives Matters riots in, was it, was it Portland or wherever it was, or was it like literally like crazy violent people that are just wild Antifa dudes that got lumped into these serious conversations about what's ethical and what's not ethical in terms of like, what should be done about police brutality and just psychos got involved in it with guns, you know, and there's this one guy who wound up getting killed.

2 (2h 45m 28s):
He killed some guy, but he just killed someone who was on the other side, just decided, I'm gonna go kill somebody. And you, you, you can have that. And if you just have that thing that happened in Seattle where they had that whole section of the city that was closed down. Oh, Chaz, the

3 (2h 45m 44s):
Police, cha Chop

2 (2h 45m 45s):
Police just gave it up. Just gave it up. You guys have this. They took over the police station, took over buildings and they, they ran it for quite a while with all sorts of chaos going on. I

3 (2h 45m 56s):
Think they starved after a while, they ran out. It was like sanitation and water and food. And they tried to grow a, a vegetable patch.

2 (2h 46m 2s):
And then they, they had the mayor on television saying that maybe it was a summer of love. Like, what are you talking about? This is, but all these things just highlight how uncertain people genuinely feel today. Because we know those things took place just in really recent time. And that was just the tip of the iceberg. It was just a, a minor thing in terms of I mean, it was a major thing in terms of the world, the impact of coronavirus. but it wasn't like airborne Ebola, you know, it wasn't like something that's gonna kill everybody. Like what, what would break down that? We, we, we broke down for a disease that killed a very small fraction of people. And those people, almost all of them had four plus comorbidities.

2 (2h 46m 43s):
Almost all of 'em. It was like in the high 90%, wasn't it? It was like 94% or something like that of people that died from Covid had four plus comorbidities.

3 (2h 46m 53s):
Jesus. Yes. I didn't

2 (2h 46m 54s):
Know that. It's something nutty like that. and it was mostly people that are obese, diabetic, unhealthy.

3 (2h 47m 0s):
So it was a big predisposition.

2 (2h 47m 2s):
Yeah. And imagine everything went that fucking haywire for something like that.

3 (2h 47m 6s):
It was wild. Dude. I mean to live, to have lived through that. It feels like a fever dream. Fever dream. Yeah. To think about that, like that really happened. Yeah. Like it's gonna be weird. You know, we're gonna be talking to our grandkids and they're gonna be like granddad.

2 (2h 47m 22s):
CDC studies have over 75% of covid Ovid, 19 deaths in vaccinated people. Were amongst those with at least four, four comorbidities. That's vaccinated people. And this is from 2022. What I had read was people that got covid before the vaccine and they were talking about, they were trying to figure out who's dying and why. And one of 'em a big one was ventilated people. Apparently. That was a big mistake that they made. That was something that they learned when they went to, I think Elon Musk talked about this when he went to China. Like what was the biggest mistake that they made during the pandemic? They put people on ventilators, apparently that fucks you up. and it some, some high number of people, like 80% or something like that.

2 (2h 48m 2s):
People who got put on ventilators died as opposed to most of the people that get it. It's not, it's not that high. Especially amongst healthy people. And definitely not amongst children. It's very low amongst children. So when they did that, it was just like, what are you doing? You're just putting people on ventilators and they didn't know. They thought they had to do it. And then, you know, and then the vaccine comes along. And when you find out that 75% of the people who died from Covid have four comorbidities, well that's the problem. That's the problem. Comorbidities means you're dying. That's the problem. But think about how much col society collapsed for that thing. Not good.

2 (2h 48m 41s):
Obviously covid is not good, obviously a tragedy. Definitely sympathetic to anybody who lost someone. But also that was in terms of what could happen to the world of a fairly small event in terms of what could happen. Like a war. Yeah. Like a nuclear war with Russia. Even

3 (2h 49m 1s):
Like an national, even the severity of a different pathogen.

2 (2h 49m 4s):
Yes. The severity of a different pathogen. Solar flares take out the power grid. The, so this feeling of anxiety, like, oh my God, this is not that stable. That's a valid feeling. It's a valid feeling because it went so haywire just for this one thing that most people wind up getting.

3 (2h 49m 19s):
I think it pulled the veil off of a lot of people's eyes that we are in control. Right. That we have mastered the mother

2 (2h 49m 26s):
Nature. That we

3 (2h 49m 26s):
Figure it out. Yeah. Yes. You know, it's been so long since there's been a full scale kinetic war between two countries that

2 (2h 49m 34s):
Right.

3 (2h 49m 35s):
The people in charge are a part of. Right. It's been so long since that's happened. and I think there's this sense we kind of outgrown that. Yeah. We we're beyond that the, the 1940s, you know, that was, that was the last dying gasps of this sort of brutal tribal, primitive version of humanity. Right. We're beyond that. We've ascended, look, we, we can control the weather in Dubai. They seed the clouds. We can communicate to each other instantly across the internet. We can have video calls. We've conquered many of the diseases that we're going to stop us previously. All of these things, like how sophisticated we are, we have also overcome our nature.

2 (2h 50m 9s):
No. Yeah.

3 (2h 50m 10s):
No we haven't. And look what happens. I, our grandkids will speak to us and go like, granddad, what was it like during 2020? Tell us. Tell us what was it like? You'll have to say fucking mental. Yeah, absolutely. Fucking mental. Fucking mental.

2 (2h 50m 24s):
And

3 (2h 50m 25s):
I lived through it. Yeah. We all lived through it. and it blows my mind. And this is the thing with this, this ambient anxiety that people have. I think it causes them not only to be uncertain outwardly toward the world, but it it's uncertain inward as well. So my friend did a mushroom trip and this question came to him, which I fucking love. And he said, does the world love you for who you are or for what you do? Ooh. Does the world love you for who you are or for what you do?

2 (2h 51m 2s):
Isn't it a more profound question that you're assuming the world loves you? Like why are you assuming the world

3 (2h 51m 8s):
Loves you? Well, does the hate, does the world hate you for who you are or for what you do? Yeah.

2 (2h 51m 11s):
But it's an interesting question. Like it phrased it in a weird way. It's almost like a trick question. It's almost like if I ask you, does your mother know you're gay?

3 (2h 51m 20s):
That's, dude, let me teach you about this. So that's called a Milgram question. There's a, there's a name for this. Oh, I learned about it. It's called a Milgram question after the Milgram experiments where they shocked people. Oh. So a Milgram question is where any truthful response is so socially cancerous that it's impossible to give a real response. It forces you to comply. The ultimate Milgram question would be, when did you stop beating your wife? You're like,

2 (2h 51m 48s):
There's

3 (2h 51m 49s):
No, another one would be what makes a woman attractive?

2 (2h 51m 53s):
Oh.

3 (2h 51m 53s):
Because the socially acceptable answer to that is one that is untruthful. And the problem with this is what is

2 (2h 52m 0s):
A socially acceptable answer to that?

3 (2h 52m 2s):
It would be to do with, it's about grace and poise. You know, it's anything that isn't big titties. Like if you say, if you say big titties, right. That's you failed. Right. You can't say big titties. You can't say a nice

2 (2h 52m 15s):
Ass. Well you can, if you're single, you can't, if you are worried about acquiring a mate, you can't. If you are of a social dynamic that needs to have your job and you have a human resources center that's very stringent, they're very strict about what they allow their people to. and it might affect your possibility of getting a promotion. It might affect your standing amongst the women in the office. You know, they don't like when you tell the truth, Chris, you work with women. You can't say, I think women with big asses and big tits are hot as

3 (2h 52m 45s):
Fuck.

2 (2h 52m 46s):
You can't say that. You can't say that even bad. Even though they know that it's true. Yeah. You can't be a good person. You can't be a good person. And even admit that that's what I'm attracted to.

3 (2h 52m 54s):
When, which is, which

2 (2h 52m 55s):
Is odd

3 (2h 52m 56s):
When punishment for what people say becomes widespread. People will stop saying what they think and instead say whatever is needed to thrive. Right. And this is why limits on speech become limits on sincerity. Yes. 'cause I'm not going to change your opinion. Right. You really think that by telling me that I can't say a thing, that I'm not going to think the thing. Right. I'm just not gonna say the thing and think the thing in private. Right. Right. So limits on speech become limits on sincerity. Yeah. And this is the issue with the, the Milgram question. It's the issue with this circular purity spiral of the firing squads online. We were talking about it before.

3 (2h 53m 36s):
This sort of toxic compassion thing. This prioritization of short-term emotional comfort of everybody, especially dispossessed groups over everything. Truth, yes. Long-term flourishing, everything. So a perfect example of this would be body weight has no bearing on health or lifespan outcomes. Because You don't want to make people who are overweight feel uncomfortable. Right. Even if your message of you are healthy as you are, you are living your true self. Even if that message causes those very people to actually die sooner. The short term emotional comfort, prioritization sweeps everything to one side.

3 (2h 54m 16s):
It sweeps rationality, it sweeps long-term outcomes, all of that stuff. Another one would be there is no advantage or benefit to children growing up in a two-parent household.

2 (2h 54m 27s):
Right.

3 (2h 54m 28s):
Even if that causes teachers and parents to misunderstand why their kids that may come from broken homes behave in the way that they do. You don't want to do something or say something that disparages hardworking single mothers. So instead you do the toxic compassion thing, which is the prioritization of short-term emotional comfort over long-term flourishing. And you see this everywhere. This is this performative empathy, toxic compassion thing. The reason I think it's so prevalent online is it's perfectly geared to be memetically driven. Right. All that's happening. Like if you have some harsh truth tweet, some people are gonna push it and it, it may catch fire if it's a real truth.

3 (2h 55m 13s):
But a lot of the people that are don't want to hear that they're not, they're gonna say that you are being judgemental. That you're being misogynistic, homophobic, xenophobic, whatever it is. Right. But if you say something which is comforting, like we need to push back against these white men. Like everyone can get behind that because it seems empathetic. It's one of the problems that anyone who isn't a like hardcore, hard carrying liberal has on the internet at the moment. Which is, if you are not prepared to, if you're, if you're going to tell people things that they don't want to hear, you're gonna come across like a bit of a dick for quite a lot of the things that you talk about. And that's not particularly good. But yet this uncertainty, this like do people love you for who you are or for what you do, I think is a really interesting question to ask ourselves.

3 (2h 55m 59s):
Because it's that success and happiness thing. Again, are you trying to achieve happiness through success? Are you trying to make the world love you to force it by promising your value, by promising your validation, by saying, look, I must do this. But the interesting thing, and this was like the second half of his mushroom trip was he asked himself, do I love me for who I am or for what I do? So I'm asking the world to love me for who I am. Because if the world loves me contingent on what I do, then it feels more fragile. It feels like it can be taken away from me. Right? Right. If I stopped doing what I do, my love would also cease.

2 (2h 56m 41s):
Well that's a real problem with guys that are in the closet, especially guys in the closet in show business. How so? Because they think the world loves them, but the world loves them for a, a thing that they're not really, they're hiding their true self and they're terrified the world will withdraw its love if they tell the truth.

3 (2h 57m 2s):
If they change,

2 (2h 57m 3s):
Yeah. If they come out, if they come out and come outta the closet and say, Hey, I've been gay the whole time. If you're an actor, it's a death sentence. 'cause you cannot play straight male roles anymore. When was the last time a guy came out of the closet because was a leading man in a major blockbuster movie? It's never happened. It's not gonna happen. That's

3 (2h 57m 23s):
A really good point.

2 (2h 57m 23s):
Yeah. It's the one area where homophobia is sort of guaranteed leading men playing straight men in movies you do want, you do not wanna see it. Nobody wants to see it doesn't happen.

3 (2h 57m 36s):
That's, fuck it, that's broken my brain. No, that's really, that's really interesting.

2 (2h 57m 39s):
Yeah, there was the one guy, the Doogie Haer guy, what's his name?

3 (2h 57m 42s):
Neil

2 (2h 57m 43s):
Patrick Harris. Neil Patrick Harris. He played like in a sitcom, but it was like a cartoon version of a straight man. It wasn't, nobody believed it.

3 (2h 57m 50s):
Kevin Spacey.

2 (2h 57m 52s):
Kevin Spacey was in the closet. He was in the closet for a long time. I mean he came outta the closet when he got accused. Remember that's really when he came outta the closet, everybody kind of knew he was gay. People that work with him for certainly knew he was gay, but I think publicly it wasn't, it wasn't something that he acknowledged. Hmm. But it's a thing where, and and he's an older man too. It's a different sort of thing, you know. But if you're a young, handsome movie star, Daniel Craig type character, people find out you're gay. Like no one wants you making out with that girl anymore. I don't buy it. You know? Yeah. It's interesting. Yeah. It's interesting because it's that, so I would imagine that if you are one of those people that, and I I know a couple of guys that are in the closet, and I've encouraged one of 'em as a friend of mine to try to come out.

2 (2h 58m 38s):
Not a good friend. I don't, he lives back in la but he wanted to then he would not, and then he'd want to, and then he would not. and I go, well if you ever do, you know, people still love you, man. I swear to God it's not, it's all in your head. Just, just don't it. It'll, it'll be a huge weight relieved off you. And you realize how much people just love you. They don't care. No one really cares. Especially in the comedy world. God, the comedy world is so open-minded. Like it is one thing. Are you funny? Everything else is just nonsense. Like, it doesn't matter what, where you come from, what part of the world are you good? Are you

3 (2h 59m 8s):
Funny? If you make people laugh, then you win. And

2 (2h 59m 10s):
Can you hang, could you cool to hang out with? Or are you just like a psycho that only wants to be the only one that's funny and you hate everybody else's funny. There's there's a few of those guys out there too.

3 (2h 59m 19s):
Yeah. Well that's one of the interesting challenges I think that no one really ever gets to see about the gamesmanship that goes on behind the scenes. Like no one knows about how easy Alan Richon from the New Richer movie or Guy Richie or someone else. Like no one knows about how easy they are to work with, but Right. You know, like, there'll be guys that have been on your show or been on my show or whatever, you know, like, I actually quite enjoyed the episode. I find 'em very difficult to deal with. Like they're really difficult to deal with outside of that. and I just, they're at a disadvantage if they're not very personable, if they're not really, if they don't respond right. In a timely manner, whatever. Like

2 (2h 59m 57s):
They don't understand the dynamics or imbalance between a famous person, a person trying to talk to the famous person.

3 (3h 0m 3s):
Absolutely. Yeah. All of these things. Right. And you're like, well that puts you at disadvantage. But that's not anything that's ever gonna be front, front of house. Right. And you know, you saw this with a number of the late night show hosts recently that kind of, the tide came back in and Yeah. Who was swimming naked or swimming with a whip in their hand, or you know, being mean to the people that they worked with. Yep. That kind of got shown. And this again, it's that toxic compassion thing. And this comes full circle to what we were talking about. You were saying a lot of people assume kind of the, the worst of intentions. He's, he's a little morsel of something and Oh, that that's the fucking, that that's them being a really bad person. Yeah. I think that that's because deep down a lot of the people doing the performative empathy, toxic compassion thing know that they're projecting a lie.

3 (3h 0m 51s):
They know that they aren't being truthful. That if someone did open the cupboard and have a look inside that it's full of disgusting, scary lies and, and, and fakery and persona and all this stuff. So they assume that theory of mind for everybody else as well. Right. They can't imagine a world in which this slight slipup by somebody couldn't be indicative of their entire personality because they themselves know that this super cutesy sweety toxic compassion, performative empathy front is just that. That if you poked it hard enough, there would be a hole and you'd find out that it was hollow inside.

2 (3h 1m 28s):
Yeah. I think, I think obviously all of that is accentuated by social media. And unfortunately when I really extrapolate, when I really like look forward, I think this, the way out of this is mind reading. This is what I'm really concerned with. I'm really concerned with the way out of this being some sort of new level of integration that we're all gonna enjoy because of technology

3 (3h 1m 51s):
Mirror link type stuff.

2 (3h 1m 53s):
Yeah. And that, that would be really a solution to all that ails us in terms of, it would, it would be like snap map times a billion, it would be crazy. Everyone would know mind map everything about everybody's thoughts, but then it would be that thing like, Hey, what do you got to hide? You know, there's gonna be a lot of dummies that are gonna go along with that. But you're gonna find out how fucking insane a lot of people are too. If you could actually look into their mind and see the wiring. Well

3 (3h 2m 15s):
I bet that the people who are out front the most empathetic, kind, loving, caring people, they are going to be, they would be first on my list for get inside that guy's mind. Yeah. Have a look at what he's doing. Because I think that he's probably a piece of shit.

2 (3h 2m 31s):
It might be.

3 (3h 2m 32s):
Yeah. Well, anyone that's working that hard to be like, look at how nice I am. Look at how completely, you know, unfettered snow, completely untouched all of this stuff. I,

2 (3h 2m 41s):
I'm, it's always like the male feminists or like some of the biggest

3 (3h 2m 44s):
Freaks, sneaky fucker fucking hell. Have you been observing or have you been seeing this skew of young boys to the right and young girls to the left? Yes. In terms of their political Yeah. Perspective, dude, I think, I think that will be the story of 2024. I think that's the story of this year. This huge breaking of young Gen Z males, teenage boys, mostly to the right and of girls really sharply to the left.

2 (3h 3m 13s):
Yeah. You know what's gonna change that? An actual hot war. Everybody will go right over, right back over. You think as, yeah. When the ladies need, they need men to take care of them and that the men that have joined their side are all cowards and they're gonna cry. Yeah. Yeah. They go, they'll go to the other side quick.

3 (3h 3m 29s):
There's a lot of news stories at the moment about left-leaning girls struggling to find a guy that they're attracted to. s like, you know, none of the guys that I'm dating want to hold the door open for me and none of them really wanna pay for dinner. And he's got that. That's called a conservative. Yeah. Like that's called someone who's right wing. Yeah.

2 (3h 3m 46s):
You're looking for all your cake and you want to eat it too. Yeah.

3 (3h 3m 50s):
But because people date within their political sphere, typically it's not just a political crisis, it's a mating crisis as well. Right. You know, I think one, it's a

2 (3h 3m 59s):
Behavior crisis.

3 (3h 3m 60s):
One third of Democrat parents say that they would be afraid of their son or daughter dating a Republican. Wow. So you've got this assortative mating thing. But going forward into the political cycle this year, I think that you're going to see not only is it a political war, but it's a gender war too.

2 (3h 4m 17s):
It's gonna be a lot of fun for us buddy.

3 (3h 4m 19s):
We're gonna have lots to talk about.

2 (3h 4m 20s):
We're gonna have lots to talk about. It's gonna be like we have what a harvest we have coming up. Like we're farmers. If we were growing pumpkins, it's a banner year buddy. Look at those fucking pumpkins. What a year. Chris, you're an awesome guy to talk to. I really appreciate you man. I and I really enjoy your show. Tell everybody where to watch it. Your set's amazing. The set you set up in LA is really cool too.

3 (3h 4m 39s):
Thank you. We're working hard with this. Very, yeah, I really appreciate you. You've been super kind, super supportive. So I, I very much appreciate that. Modern, Wisdom, apple Podcast, Spotify, wherever else you listen. It's

2 (3h 4m 50s):
Really good show. I really, really enjoy it. You're, you're such a great conversation list and it's so many of the topics are so, so well covered. It's just a really solid show, man.

3 (3h 4m 59s):
I really appreciate you.

2 (3h 5m 0s):
My pleasure. Appreciate you too. Hell yeah. Welcome to Texas, motherfucker. We did it. I'm glad you got a Camaro. Bye everybody.