0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night. All day.

0 (13s):
Yes.

3 (13s):
What's happening? Billy Good to see you.

4 (14s):
It's good. Good seeing you, Joe. It's good being here. Thank you.

3 (17s):
So, you know George Knapp. That's crazy. I do

4 (19s):
Know George.

3 (20s):
Yeah. Did you get involved in the whole UFO thing with him?

4 (23s):
Not really. Yeah. No, I, I knew George got introduced to him. You know, his, the way he pays the bills, he's, he's in, he, he covers the news in Las Vegas and does a lot of feature stories. And that's how I met George. And we become good friends over the years. I have a tremendous amount of respect for George and the work he does.

3 (41s):
He's a great man. Yeah, real good guy too. Did he cover your story?

4 (45s):
George has covered a lot of stories involving me over the years. I've been to Las Vegas. I moved there permanently in 1982, and since I've been there, I've been involved in a lot of different things. Indictments, I did, I've done quite a bit of business there. The biggest business mistakes I probably made, I did some businesses there with, I did some public private partnerships with, with local government and I didn't make any money. Matter of fact, lost quite a bit of money, but I got quite a bit of notoriety that I wasn't looking for. I, I got involved in a world that I didn't totally understand until I got into it. It, I got into it for business and found myself wrapped up in a political world and Oof.

4 (1m 29s):
Yeah. And that wasn't good.

3 (1m 31s):
You think Gambling's a dirty business. Yeah. The political world. That's the real dirty business. Right? Yeah,

4 (1m 36s):
I would agree with that. It's, I've, I've met a lot of people over the years in that world and have a lot of respect for some, and Of course, I'll, I withhold my thoughts and comments about others.

3 (1m 48s):
That's a game that You don't want to bet on. Right? That, that is a rig game.

4 (1m 53s):
Yeah, that's a pretty tough game. That's that one. There's that one's pretty much over before you get involved, I think

3 (1m 60s):
Most places. So I, I've been paying attention to your story and it's pretty wild, man. You, you essentially started gambling in a pool hole when you're about six years old.

4 (2m 8s):
That's right. Yep.

3 (2m 10s):
That's a very young age to get the bug.

4 (2m 13s):
Yeah. Well, it's kind of interesting how, how I got there. You know, my father passed away when I was a year and a half old, and my mother left to find work. I was born and raised in a small rural town in central Kentucky, a little town called Mumford Ville. And I, I was lucky, I had two sisters who were older than me and, and my grandmother on my father's side took my oldest sister, my aunt on my father's side, took my other sister and my mother, my, my grandmother on my mother's side took me to raise me. And luckily for me, I could have had four parents. I could have had a better role model than her.

4 (2m 54s):
She worked two jobs. She was an extremely proud lady. She wouldn't have taken any assistance from anyone if her life depended on it. And so I learned a lot of things from her early on in life that have been extremely important to me and have kinda carried me through to where I'm at today. And she worked these two jobs. I mean the first places Joel I ever went when I left my home or a Baptist church, you know, Sunday school on Sunday morning, you know, church afterwards, training union on Sunday night, prayer meeting on Wednesday night. and I went to a Christian youth organization on Sunday night called the Royal Ambassadors. But when I was around four, my grandmother, she had this, these two jobs and she had to have someone to keep an eye on me.

4 (3m 39s):
Well, my Uncle Harry had a pool room, so she started dropping me off at the pool room when I was four years old. And my uncle Harry, he went to the back pool table. He put up a couple old wooden Coca-Cola cases handing me a pool stick. And he went back to work. And I actually started banging pool balls when I was four. And by the time I'm six, I'm racking balls in Uncle Harry's pool room and playing Penny nine ball. So my life when I was six, I'm in church five times a week, and I'm in my Uncle Harry's pool room. And, and I and I just began to first grade. So that was my life.

3 (4m 20s):
Wow. Yeah. And then you went on from that, to be arguably one of the most successful gamblers ever.

4 (4m 30s):
I did. and I have, excuse me, there's been a lot of, lot of ups and downs. I've gotten a lot of knots on my head in between,

3 (4m 43s):
I'm sure.

4 (4m 45s):
But

3 (4m 47s):
I,

4 (4m 50s):
You know, someone asked me how I became so good at gambling. I told 'em I became good at it by losing. And, and you know, I, I think my life, Joe, when you kinda look back on it, the thing that sustain me has been perseverance. You know, I learned from my grandmother at a very early age. You know, you, you don't quit. You know, if you make a commitment to anything, you keep it come, you know, come hell or high water. And the, so when I look back on my life and I look back through where I began in gambling and, and you know, where I met with it today, I literally almost can't believe that sometimes I didn't quit.

4 (5m 31s):
And, and, and I tried to figure out, okay, why didn't I quit? Well, bottom line is I loved it. I had a passion for it. It was something that I really enjoyed doing. I don't think there's any question in my mind. At one time I was addicted to it. And, and, and then Of course I was determined to be successful at it. And fortunately I was and am.

3 (5m 52s):
So talk me through, how does it start? So you're a little kid, you're playing Penny nine ball, and then how does it go on to big million dollar sports betting?

4 (6m 2s):
Well, I started off playing Penny nine Ball, and by the time I was nine or 10, I'm playing, you know, five and $5, nine ball. And, and as I got older and I made more money, the amount of money I was gambling for increased because I had more money to gamble with. And then, and as I became proficient at it became good at it. It's like anything that you want to, that you're investing in, if you feel if, if you're confident and basically certain that you're going to be successful, you want to, you know, win as much as you can.

4 (6m 44s):
And, and, and it, as you know, my bankroll got bigger as the amount of money that I had to bet with became bigger or got bigger. My bets became much larger. And so there was a combination of confidence and access to capital and access to markets.

3 (7m 3s):
So how good were you at Pool?

4 (7m 6s):
I could beat all the local guys and I could

3 (7m 8s):
Like a solid short stop.

4 (7m 10s):
Yeah. Like a solid short stop. I couldn't beat a good player. I played Allen Hopkins once he robbed Oh, no kidding. He robbed me. And, and I played Steve Maek once and he robbed me too. I, I couldn't beat players of that caliber, but I could beat players that, you know, local guys. I was a solid shortstop. That's, that's, that's a very good description, Joe. I

3 (7m 29s):
Used to play a lot of pool.

4 (7m 30s):
Yeah, yeah.

3 (7m 31s):
Yeah. When I lived in New York, I was playing eight hours a day.

4 (7m 34s):
Oh, okay. Yeah, we probably know a few guys.

3 (7m 37s):
I'm sure I know Alan Hopkins. Yeah. and I met Steve Misra once. Yeah. I played in a tournament with him in West End, billiards in New Jersey, Elizabeth, New Jersey in like 1990.

4 (7m 46s):
I used to go to Johnson City. That was probably a little bit before your time.

3 (7m 50s):
Oh, I've heard of Johnson City. That must have been amazing.

4 (7m 52s):
It was amazing. And, and of course, you know, over the years, Ronnie Allen, I'm sure you know Ronnie, Ronnie Allen. Sure. There's, there's, we probably know some of the same people, but I I, I'm sure I was never as good a player as, yeah, I quit playing pool when I was like 15, 16 years old. And

3 (8m 12s):
Then you got into heavy sports betting. What was like the first thing you really got into where you like had to do research? 'cause I I know the way you would study like a team when you're placed in bets, very meticulous. You're, you're looking for injuries, you're looking for every possible advantage. You essentially had an algorithm before there was algorithms. Well,

4 (8m 33s):
Actually sports got, I got associated with a guy who had an algorithm and I was handicapping sports. And I was doing it with a pencil and piece of paper as everyone else was at that time, except one guy. and I met this guy indirectly through others in the late seventies and became more directly involved with him in 1982 when I moved to Las Vegas. And then by the mid eighties, he and I were sole partners. The other people involved initially were, were all gone except he and I. Then I realized, Joe, during that period of time that he was going to eventually lose his edge. and I recruited six other guys that had similar backgrounds to his, and they did, you know, they did their analysis independent of what he was doing.

4 (9m 25s):
The only person they talked to was me. And they provided me with, with their information. I knew each, I knew their strengths, I knew their weaknesses. and I would take a look at seven different pieces of information and then decide what I was going to do. And then over the years, like anything else, I got a little bit better at what I did. And, and luckily, you know, I've worked Joe over the years was probably a minimum of 50 handicappers. Every one of 'em have basically gotten to the point to where they couldn't win. You know, in order to win handicapping, you have to come up with new ideas, and you have to come up with new ideas that are relevant, that that means something.

4 (10m 10s):
And because the people making line are getting smarter, the competition's getting smarter. So whatever edge you start off with, that's going into a road, other people are going to catch on. Okay. Well, over the years and when I was in my heyday, I was spending six to $8 million in research and development. Really? Oh yeah. Every year. Every year. Yeah. And now I probably spend at least a million now and as the example of football season is over, we're already working on next season, the day this season was over, we're doing simulations, we're running lots of different things to go back and see if we can find something that would've made a difference in the game or will make a difference in the game going forward as far as the prediction's concerned that's relevant, that we can quantify.

4 (10m 58s):
That makes sense. And if we can then that, you know, our information, it will strengthen our information and allow us, allow me to continue to be able to bet on sports. I only bet on sports Joe today. I love it. If I didn't, I didn't have the passion for it, I couldn't do it, but I still win. And, and I have, have an advantage. And if I get to the point that I don't have that advantage, I'll quit. Okay. But I still have the advantage. But in order to maintain that advantage, I, I continually have to be able to recognize, find things that make a material difference or, or make you know that, that quantify difference with the outcome of a game to stay ahead of the herd, so to speak.

4 (11m 42s):
'cause you got really smart people making a line. You got other really smart people betting, okay, I'm the guy don, don't bet on Monday or Tuesday or Sunday night when the line's soft. I I'm the guy I bet on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, why do I bet on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday? Because that's when you can bet the most money early in the week. You can only make small bets. I'm not interested in making smaller bets today. Why do

3 (12m 7s):
They have it set up like that just in case something happens? Well and it's injured? Well,

4 (12m 13s):
No, when the line originally comes out, say on Sunday night or Monday morning, and all sports are different. Some sports are more vulnerable than others. It, the NFL is the least vulnerable sport of all. It's the toughest of all to beat in the world. As a matter of fact, most of the guys that, that gamble for a living or call themselves professional handicaps, they don't bet the NFL 'cause it's, it's just too tough to beat. Okay? If that line comes out on Sunday or Monday or whenever it comes out, that's your best chance of finding something there where that odds maker missed something and okay, but bye Tuesday. That's gone. Okay, now it different sports, you know, college football, a non-Power five conference team, you know, you may find more of advantage with that early on or even later on because in the colleges, you know, they're making a line on, you know, 130 games and it's much more difficult for them to make the line on 130 games or, you know, you got personnel that changes every year.

4 (13m 18s):
I mean it's just more difficult for them to do that. And then on top of that, the Power five teams, you know, like Texas is an example. There's not much about Texas that, that everybody doesn't know. But when you're looking at Louisiana Tech or you're looking at one of these other teams, say a non-Power five team, okay, the guy who's actually doing the handicap and may have an advantage over the guy making the line, because there may be things pertaining to that particular team that it's not in the USA today, it's not on ESPN sports I mean there could be a little advantages. But back to what you're talking about, why do they have the the limits cheaper? It's because the line's more vulnerable. I would say by, you know, Tuesday with the NFL by Tuesday, Wednesday with the college football Power five or non-Power five, all those numbers are solid years ago, Joe, the guys that I actually feel like were smarter bookmakers than the bookmakers today, as soon as they felt like the line was solid, they would take a full IMIT bet.

4 (14m 24s):
Because if you're a bookmaker, stop and think about it. What you're trying to do, you're trying to write as many bets on one side as you are on the other side. So, as an example, once you feel like your number's solid, if you take a bet on, on a Wednesday or Thursday, and that game doesn't start till Sunday, you can move your line. You've got four or five days to get action back on the other side. Some, some of the bookmakers today, and frankly I don't understand the rationale at all, 'cause it really doesn't make any sense. A lot of them wait until the day before the game or the day of the game before, they'll take a full limit bet, which makes no sense, because what happens if they wait till the day of the game or the day before the game, and they take a full limit bet they have a, they have a small amount of time to get action back the other way.

4 (15m 14s):
I mean, if you're a bookmaker, what's book, what is bookmaking? It's taking bets both ways and you're trying to earn the vigorous, okay. You're not, you're, you're really not trying to gamble. You're, you know, there's gonna be times you're gonna be lopsided on one game. But what you're, you're, you know, the ideal thing for a bookmaker is to have as many, have as many pets on one side as he does the other, and the volume equal out and you earned the juice and basically you got no risk or very little risk. Okay? So, but I can't answer your question as to why some people today wait until later on I mean, I think in their minds they may think, well maybe the line's more solid or something. That's the only way I could, but at the end of the day, the line by Thursday is solid as a rock and I think if I were a bookmaker and I have been a bookmaker, as soon as I feel like the line's solid on whatever the sport is, I want to take as many bets as I can take as early as I can take them to, to move my line, to draw action back on the other side.

4 (16m 13s):
But you've got people out there today that some not all the guys that I think are smart, are smarter book makers. They start taking, you know, full limit admit bets on Thursday because that gives them, that gives them Sunday night, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. Now they feel like the, the line is solid and it is solid. But if they take a bet on a Thursday, they got Friday, they got Saturday, they got Sunday, they get back action back on the other side. So it's, but you have different strategies from different guys. You got, you got a lot of guys that are today, Joe, that are booking, they really don't know anything about booking. You know, they, they, they're great at creating databases, they're great at creating, you know, generating customer accounts and what have you, but they really don't understand the art of bookmaking.

4 (16m 60s):
And you know, they've got these preconceived opinions that, you know, that what most of them do, they'll go hire someone who to be their bookmaker. And they'll look at that guy's, you know, they'll, they'll look at his background or his bio and he'll have, he would've worked at someplace in Las Vegas at some hotel, and he'll have a title of X, Y, Z or whatever it is. And they, you know, they don't really know anything about Booken making this guy looks like the real deal. He's been interviewed and you, you read the things are written about him and you would think he, you know, he knows what he's doing. So they hire the guy, they put him in that position.

4 (17m 41s):
And a lot of those guys don't know anything about booking. They really don't. And what they do know is they know, they don't, don't, they know that they know, don't know a lot about booking. Okay? And so as a result, what they do, instead of trying to promote and create action, they're, they're trying to a a lot of things that they do, in my opinion, it, it keeps action down, so to speak.

3 (18m 9s):
Hmm

4 (18m 10s):
Hmm. Now there's exceptions to the rule. You know, you've got a sports book in c in Las Vegas called Circa, they're open one, and everyone that comes in the door, don don't care who you are. And they have room limits. They give everyone the same room limits and they're generous limits. I mean on the NFL, you can bet 50,000 a game on college football, you can bet up to 50,000 a game. Sometimes they take 20, sometimes they take thirties, but they're smart. These guys know how to book I mean, and they, they want to I don. Anyone can open the counter. I have an encounter myself. If they take a bet for me, they move the line and they're gonna force somebody back on, on the other side of that bet. But they know how to book.

4 (18m 50s):
There's guys there, Nick Bogdanovich, who's been in the business for a long, long time, and others, they know, they understand the art of bookmaking. And, and you've got others in Las Vegas that, and you've got others in other parts of the world that really understand bookmaking I mean. You got, you know, you've got some guys offshore that understand it extremely well.

3 (19m 15s):
It seems like such a complicated and stress filled life. And when you're, you're telling me things like you're, you're spending millions of dollars every year on research before the internet. What kind of research are you getting? Like how are you getting research on NFL teams or boxers or anything? Whatever you're gambling on. Yeah,

4 (19m 36s):
Yeah. Well, prior to the internet there, some of the information today that you had can, you know, you could get off your smartphone was, was, was golden I mean, I used to have a crew of guys, when I first moved to Las Vegas in 82, we would send 'em out to the airport and we had relationships with the various airlines and we would be able to get the newspapers that came, came off of all the planes that flew into Las Vegas. And then, and they were filled with local sports stories that were, you know, written by that local sports writer. Wow. And, and then we bring 'em back and, and we had readers who read those stories and anything that they read in one of those stories they, that they felt like was material to that particular game, it would be passed along to, to the handicapper.

4 (20m 23s):
And, and today, you know, you can read a thousand newspapers online and get that same information. Or you could, we have a program that we've written now that, you know, I could, we have like 140 beat writers in, in the NFL that we cover. Anything that that beat writer writes or anything that comes out on Twitter or social media, you know, the program we have it will scrape it. And we, we have that immediately. We know. And so if there's a story there and there's anything in that story that we feel like that is gonna have any real meaning toward the game, you know, we're able to take that a lot of time.

4 (21m 5s):
You know, the time involved with it is everything too, because eventually that story's gonna come out everywhere. Yeah. But back, back when you're talking about prior to the internet, we, and, and you know, Joe, way, way back, it's kind of crazy, but I used to have a Zenith Trans Oceanic radio and I used to, I would sit and listen to pregame shows and postgame shows, but the other thing I used to do is I would call a lot of the cities and I, I, I had people in all these cities and I would have someone to put the phone up to the, up to the radio and I would listen to the pre-game show and I would listen to the post game show. Wow. And yeah. And you, and you're able to learn a lot from that.

4 (21m 47s):
And today, you know, information is, it's, it's, it's a lot more accessible than it was then.

3 (21m 55s):
So you would send people to the airport, they would find these local papers and you would scour these papers and go through these articles. Yeah. And what specifically looking for hard hits, injuries, how someone's doing exceptional plays, someone who's really coming up, what would you be looking for?

4 (22m 11s):
Well, you're looking for injuries and, and, and you're looking for game plans. And you know, as an example, if a coach says, look, you know, we're gonna, you know, we're gonna slow this thing down, we're gonna start running the ball. You know, first thing you know comes a total's not gonna be as much. If he starts slows this thing down, he starts running the ball, you know, they're not gonna get as many plays. And, and there's probably pretty high possibility that the total is, is gonna come down some on this game. They talk about players, they talk about injuries, esp you know, especially the quarterback. You know, if you're talking about the quarterback and you got a quarterback who's playing injured I mean, how that's gonna affect his performance is, is really important.

3 (22m 56s):
And they're always kind of playing injured. Right?

4 (22m 58s):
Always playing injured as, as you talked about in the book I wrote, you know, there's 1400 players in the NFL. There's about 600 of them that have a value. And we have a value assigned to each and every one of those individual players. But as you, as you're, as you've noted a lot of them, almost every one of 'em are playing with some type of an injury once the season begins. Okay, then, okay, who's playing again? We listen and we follow Dr. David Chow quite a bit, and we think he does an excellent job. He's on serious on the NFL network and he talks about the key players on a weekly basis and, and from an injury perspective, how, how he feels like that's going to affect their performance there.

4 (23m 45s):
There are many more players that Dr. Chow doesn't cover that we cover that are playing injured. And again, we do a lot of reading. We got 140 beat writers. We cover, I have a guy on my team, he's a qualitative guy, he's not a computer guy. Right. He's probably knows more about the NFL as far as a qualitative guy's concerned. I believe that any man alive. Okay. And

3 (24m 8s):
What do you mean by that? A qualitative

4 (24m 9s):
Guy? Well, okay, the 1400 players, he knows who they are. Okay? He knows, he, he knows their positions, he knows what the value of those players are as far as we're concerned. He knows how to adjust their value based upon their injury. And, and after we get the medical information, we'll figure out how we feel like their, their performance is going to be affected against that particular opponent that week. And then we, if, if a, if a player's worth a point and a half, we, we may downgrade him. He's only worth three quarters of a point. Or he may be worth a point if a guy's out, okay, well we got a backup, we know the value of the guy's out, what's a backup worth?

4 (24m 52s):
Okay, backup could be worth zero. He could be worth, you know, half a point. And he's replacing a guy that's a point and a half guy. So we have to downgrade the ity and buy a point that week. And the other thing, w this qualitative guy, he watches every NFL game. He grades every play. Okay. How many times have you watched the football game? And you'll see the score wa it wasn't indicative of, of all at all of what the score should have been. So let's say, you know, receiver's going down the field and, and he didn't have anybody within 20 yards of him, and he, he gets thrown a perfect pass. He just drops it. Okay. Well, he was unlucky.

4 (25m 32s):
He, he should have had that pass. On the other hand, let's say he is going down the field, and we had a pass like that in the playoffs when San Francisco was playing Detroit. They threw a ball and it, it had a helmet, Rico ricocheted, and ended up in a, in a, in a real long completion and a touchdown. Well, that was lucky. Okay, so when we looked at the box score, we look at the yardage, we take that off, okay. You know, there's, there's plays that happen in the NFL when you look, when you look at box scores, as far as we're concerned, they're misleading. Okay? When you look at the total amount of yards, you know, everybody kinda looks at the same thing.

4 (26m 12s):
You know, you look at the time position.

3 (26m 15s):
So you have to go over each individual play and every play and deduct all the lucky shit.

4 (26m 19s):
Yeah. And, and then, and then we have player participation. We know who played in every play. So, God, you

3 (26m 25s):
Gotta keep up on all this.

4 (26m 26s):
So, so to give you an example, Joe Pittsburgh, okay, TJ Watts out. Okay. He isn't playing well. If you look at Pittsburgh's performance with him in the lineup and him outta the lineup, it's unbelievable that one guy could, could have that much effect on, on a team. So if you're looking at, if you're looking at offensive performance against Pittsburgh with TJ Watt out, you know, you're not looking, you know, you're not looking at what Pittsburgh's defense really is. So you gotta make an adjustment when you look at that, and you gotta put that into your priority. When I wrote the book, it took me six months to do this one section.

4 (27m 12s):
We wrote what we call the masterclass, okay? and I wrote what we call betting strategy. I wrote that for the 99 9 test percent of the people who bet sports who, and, and we got a lot of new sports bettors today that have no chance. I wrote that for them. Okay? and I put the basics in there. I put basic, I put basic betting strategy in there, which that's probably as important to them or more important than handicapping is. I put, I put all the charts in there that tells them exactly what each half point is worth. I put charts in there that tells 'em exactly how a money line compares to a point spread flying on the games. Two, here's a, here's a money line equivalent. If you can get a better deal, take it if you can't take the other, okay, I put stuff in there, basic stuff because none of that stuff is out there now, guys don't have any idea if they're buying a half a point what the fair price is to pay.

4 (28m 2s):
And all these, all these points, they have a different value. As an example, if you're buying a game on or off of three, say from two and a half to three in, in the NFL or three and a half to three, that's worth 22 additional cents. It's not worth 23, but it's worth 22 mm. If you can do it for 20, buy it 21, buy it. If, if it's a, if you feel like it's gonna be a low scoring game and you can buy it for 22 or you might, whatever, buy it. But if it's 23, you're better off taking a two and a half. But people don't know that, Joe. Mm. Okay. What's a value of two? Well, the value of two is much less than it is. Three, the value of two is only worth 6 cents or three's worth 23.

4 (28m 44s):
The different numbers have different values. So I put those charts in there for the guy that I pointed out to. I also put another section in there. It's, we'll call it kind of the advanced section. And that section, I, I try to write it in such a manner to where I felt like, you know, people could understand it. And that's, that's the guy who, or, or, or, or the lady who wants to become a serious handicapper and, and I and I explained in there exactly 100% Joe, exactly how I do everything. Okay? This book was written at the end of the NFL season, not this year, but last year.

4 (29m 24s):
It came out in August. Everything that I know about sports betting in handicapping is in that book. I would not have sold that information 10 years ago for $20 million. and I never had any intention of ever writing this book and putting that in there. But I'm 77, it's my legacy. I see all these new people at our betting sports and they're doing it in states now where it's legal. I'm proud of that. I'm, I'm glad that sports has, has come around to that. But I also, I, I still have, there's a lot of things I'm apprehensive about also. But anyway, so I, I, I wrote this, that was one of the reasons I wrote the book.

4 (30m 8s):
But in those two sections, if you want to be Billy Walters and you want to be a handicap and I, don't care what sport it is. I use the NFL as a model. But this model is the same model that for every sport, whether it be you're betting on golf or you're betting on nascar or you're betting on soccer or baseball, it's the same principle. That's the way they all work. So I put that in there. And then for people who are betting any type of sport, but especially the NFL or college football, i, I I, but the NFLI put all those charts in there to explain to people. 'cause right now, I don't care what sites you go up on, Joe, a lot of these new places, the reason they're making the money they're making is, if you were to poll sports bets out there today, everyone thinks making a bet on a, on, on a sporting event, you're laying 11 to 10.

4 (30m 60s):
That's the premise that we've all been taught that you're laying 11 to win 10. A lot of these bets today, and matter of fact, almost all, well not a lot of them, all of them, these we'll call 'em, you know, the teasers, the parlays, those bets, some of those bets. A guy's laying a dollar 50 and he doesn't even know it because there's no requirement to disclose the odds you're laying. So they're not gonna tell you. But like these endgame parlays, and you're doing these three and 14 parlays and you're doing these teasers, a lot of these places are charging you a dollar 50 to a dollar. You got no chance of winning. You got zero chance of winning.

4 (31m 41s):
I couldn't win. I wouldn't even think about playing them. But the average person who's playing 'em, they don't know that. So, because right now there's, there's no requirement to disclose that to, to the customer. And we all want about a small amount of money. Want a large amount of money, right, Joe? Yeah. Okay. Well you got a lot of people out there. They're, they're making these bets and they're laying a dollar, $40, 50 and they don't know it. When you look at these publicly traded companies, you know, it's out, right out there in the public. You know, when they report their earnings, they're, you know, they're, they're doing very well. But they all refer to these parlays and teasers. That's where they're making the majority of their money.

4 (32m 21s):
They're not making, they're, they're not making the majority of their money on straight bet's where people are only 11 to 10 they're making on these proposition bets.

3 (32m 29s):
Well, what I'm getting from you is that to be a successful sports Gambler requires an insane amount of dedication and research and understanding. And that you, you've gotta be on it all the time. And most people are just not that sophisticated when it comes to these things. If they're betting using an app or something like that, betting online, they're just doing it for fun. They think they could win. They got a feeling, they wanna bet their team, they wanna make the game more exciting. And so those people are basically like very under, they're very under researched. They're very, they don't have like the full grasp of understanding of the complexities of sports gambling.

3 (33m 10s):
'cause it's a lot more complex than ever thought. When I was going over your stuff, I was like, oh my goodness, like, this involves so much time, so much time. Andre, this is not a simple thing as like, oh, I, I fall sports. I think Kansas City's gonna win. It does not. It's complicated. Very, very complicated. And to win at a level that you won at over your career and the, the numbers, like what is the biggest bet you ever placed?

4 (33m 35s):
I bet four and a half million dollars on New Orleans to to beat the Indianapolis Colts in the Super Bowl. That's the biggest bet I

3 (33m 42s):
Replaced. Did you win?

4 (33m 43s):
I I I did. I won. I got lucky. and I won.

3 (33m 46s):
You got lucky on that one. Well,

4 (33m 47s):
I, yeah, I mean anytime you win I mean, I, I feel like I'm lucky. I mean it, Joe, the world's made up of a lot of different kind of people as we both know. And the, but no, I, I feel like anytime I win a bet, I got lucky I mean because there's, you know, but no, I won to bet and, and, and the reason I had such a big bet is what I do, Joe, is I'm, I make a line on the game myself. My prediction of what I feel like the, the differential should be

3 (34m 14s):
Independent of what the experts

4 (34m 16s):
Are completely independent. I I could, I don't even look at her line when I make my line. Really?

3 (34m 20s):
No,

4 (34m 20s):
That's,

3 (34m 21s):
That's high level

4 (34m 21s):
Shit. Well, that's all they, that's all I'm doing the same thing they're doing, right? I mean it, believe me, the, the principles that I'm following and making my line are the same principles that the handicappers making. but it, it's, it's Joe, it's kinda like baking a cake. You know, one guy might put a little bit more flour in than the other guy does. And so that's how we end up with different, you know, lines, different numbers. So I make a line on each and every outcome of, of the sports, sports that I'm involved with. And

3 (34m 49s):
You betting this on the individual players, their overall career, what age they are, how they've been playing this season, who the coach is, all the different factors, whether or not there's in, in player disputes in between player, like there's a lot of things to take into consideration.

4 (35m 8s):
It's, again, I put it all in the book and, and you're right, there's a lot of different factors that go into that. Some more important others, but there's a lot of factors. And, and then what happens is the larger, the differential between the number they make and my opinion, the larger bet I make, there has to be a minimum of a certain amount of, of separation, or I won't make a bet. But the larger the differences between my opinion and their opinion, opinion, the larger bet I make. So I'll just give you a rough example. Let's say the NFL and let's say the, let's say I would've to have a minimum of say a point and a half differential from the line they make from the line.

4 (35m 51s):
I, I make a point and a half, two points. Well that would, I would make, I would bet one unit, okay? That would be the smallest bet I would make. But for each half point you would I, so if, if I made the line on the game six and they had an eight, I would bet one unit, if they made it eight and a half, I would bet two units they made it nine, I would bet three units, they made it nine and a half. I would be four units, they made it 10, I would be five units. Well, the New Orleans game you asked me about, which I couldn't believe was a Super Bowl game. And this type of year, we never get this kind of differential. But I had like a seven point differential between the line I made and the line they made really, they made Indianapolis seven and I thought the game should be pick 'em and I.

4 (36m 38s):
When I saw the line, I couldn't believe it. I went back, I said, well, maybe I haven't made a mistake here. I went back, redid it, redid it, and I pick 'em. So that's how I ended up with such a large bet. When

3 (36m 48s):
You go through something like that, how much time are we talking? Like if you're placing a $4 million bet on a Super Bowl game, how much time are you researching?

4 (36m 56s):
Well, by, by that time of the year, I mean all of our research is done. I mean it, this last game here, okay? The only changes you're gonna make from the last games that these two teams played are in the Super Bowl is, okay, are there any players injured that didn't you, you which you have to account for? And you know, clearly if they're playing on a different surface or, or something, maybe then, you know, then the teams normally do. but it is very small. I mean the second the game's over, we can have the line on the next game within six hours. It's not a problem. Or less I mean unless it involves, you know, some injury or something that, you know, may take us until we get some more clarity on that.

4 (37m 39s):
But I'm, I'm gonna know real close to where I'm at, frankly, as soon as the game's over, almost within an hour or two. Now,

3 (37m 46s):
There's been some times over the years where referees specifically in basketball games have been caught doing things, you know, calling penalties, trying to swing the game in favor of another team, and they get caught for it and busted. How much do you think that goes on today? Like how, how much do you think like referees are bought off or maybe perhaps they're betting themselves?

4 (38m 11s):
I don't think that exists at all, Joel. Really. And if it does, it's very, very small,

3 (38m 15s):
But it has been, right? Yeah.

4 (38m 17s):
Things have happened in the past and, but I, but I, but, but you know who uncovered each and every one of those gamblers Mm, people betting sports and, and bookmakers. They're the ones that made law enforcement aware of these things. Because at the end of the day, whether you're a casino or whether you're a better, the integrity of sports is the most important thing in the world, world to you. A good thing about what's going on today, there's probably more transparency in betting today than there ever has been. All, all of the legalized gambling's taking place, they have everyone's account information. They know everything you're doing. And the other thing about betting on sports Joe Unlike say Wall Street, it is a small market, much, much smaller market than Wall Street.

4 (38m 60s):
So if you go out and you make a sizable bet in sports, the line's gonna move and it's, it's impossible to hide it. Okay? Now there's people such as myself, and I'm not the only one. There's a lot of people in the sports business, if they see a line on the game move a half a point, a point or whatever, they know who calls that line to move 99% of the time. Okay? I'll give you an example. The Arizona State situation that came up years ago, I know if you remember that one or not, it was their basketball team and they were fixing games. And then what happened, there was a bunch of guys that came to Las Vegas and they bet on one of these games, the line moved six or seven points, I bet on the other side of it, because you know, the line I make and Of course, I had no idea that, you know, they were shaving points and I lost the bet.

4 (39m 57s):
Well, they came back to town a little bit later and they brought six, seven guys and they were going to all the different sports books and they were betting, and the line moves six or seven points. Again, game lines on games don't move six or seven points. Well, the second time I didn't bet because, and sure enough, they won the game by like 20 again. They came back the third time and by now I'm taping the games. I'm looking at the games. They came back the third time and they did the same thing. Well, I called Steve Sharm, who was the head of gaming control for the gaming control board. He was the, the law enforcement part of gaming Control and told him what was going on and they dispatched some agents, they tried to get these people to talk to them.

4 (40m 46s):
They left Las Vegas, went back to Arizona, and then later on, I think one of them got kinda caught up in a drug deal. And then it came out, they were fixing games and there were a couple players that were intentionally throwing off and they were fixing games. and it, that's how that scandal came out, you know, I guess. So it was

3 (41m 6s):
Exposed by gamblers.

4 (41m 7s):
Oh, it by gamblers. And, and it How

3 (41m 9s):
Did you know that something? How did you know it wasn't just luck?

4 (41m 12s):
Well, I mean, Joe, look, this would be like tracking an elephant in the snow. I mean you got, you got guys who no one's ever laid eyes on and they come to, to Las Vegas and they bet, they bet on the game and they move at six or seven points. You know, if you're a handicapper or you know, anything at all about bending sports, if a line moves, you know, it, it's, and you're laying a second or third point or what you know, you, you better, you better have a really strong opinion because they move this line for one reason. It, it's, it's, it's to make it a lot less appealing to the person betting on, on that team.

4 (41m 53s):
So when somebody comes to town and they move a line, six or seven points, no better in the world is gonna do that. And in order to do that, they, they went to every sports book in town and they just, you know, they laid, you know, six, six and a half. Seven, seven and a half. Eight, eight and a half nine, nine and a half 10, okay, well, because they were new to betting, okay? They knew they had a, they had an edge because of what they were doing, but they didn't know anything about betting as a result, you know, they created something that was easy for anyone to see. I saw it again the first time I didn't know, you know, the exact, you know, I didn't know exactly who was doing it. and I, I, I bet on the other side, of course I lost my money.

4 (42m 34s):
And of course I came back the second time. I'd seen these things before and I didn't bet. And then of course, you know, we taped the game, we looked at it, it was pretty easy to see who was doing what they were doing. They came back the third time, did the same thing, frankly, you know, to give you the I mean these guys were trying to break in jail is what they were trying to do. Anybody I mean they were, anybody would do what they were doing was just stupid I mean anyone could see what they were doing. So they just, the only thing surprised me, it, it took three games for someone to finally turn 'em in. and I don't sports books don don't think ever turned them in I mean I called deShar myself because again, anything that involves integrity of sports, they're affecting my business. If people get to where they don't trust betting on sports, then the limits are gonna go down and it's gonna reduce my ability to be able to bet on sports.

4 (43m 20s):
There you the other one, you know, well the referee, the n the NFL referee gamblers knew about that eight months before he got busted by law enforcement. People quit betting on the games. Really? Oh yeah, well sure. I mean it wasn't like they just suspected that the calls were bad. Well, they, no, well, no. What hap anytime again, Joe, because the market's so small. Okay, think about the, the New York Stock Exchange or, or think about Apple stock. You could buy $500 million worth of Apple stock and, and the price on Apple stock would, would barely move. Okay. On, on A-N-F-N-F-L, on an NBA basketball game, if you were to bet $250,000 on an NFL basketball game, it would probably move a point and a half, two points.

4 (44m 14s):
So, and again, the people taking the bet, people such as myself and others, if a line moves on a game and it moves like that, and okay, I wanna know who better on that game. If it's another handicapper or there's an injury out or there's something there that makes sense as to why that game moved, then okay, I understand it. But if there's some mysterious person that's betting a lot of money on a game that hasn't been doing this for a period of time, and then I'm looking at an outcome of a game that doesn't make sense if I tape it and, and, and I see, you know, something that's outta the ordinary about the way the game's being officiated or some player's performance, it, this is, this stuff is easy Joe to see. Mm. And you're not dealing with exactly, you're not dealing here with master criminals.

4 (44m 58s):
You're dealing with people that frankly aren't very smart. And a number I mean they aren't very smart to be doing what they're doing and the way they go about it. They're even, you know, about, you know, I don Dunno, if you remember the thing years ago with Hot Rod Williams I mean, there's the ones, what was that thing? Well, it was an, it was an NBA thing also, but all the ones, if you go back and you look at the last five sports deals, whatever they were, small or big, every one of 'em were uncovered like that. And so, you know, I, I did a, I did a pro, I did an interview one time on 60 Minutes in 2011, and I was asked at the end of the interview, which I had the most confidence in betting on sports or investing in stocks.

4 (45m 43s):
And my answer was, I have a lot more confidence in betting on sports for the reason I pointed out. It's, it's a much smaller market, but I, as far as, as far as things being on the up and up, I have a lot more confidence than that and I way more confidence in that than I do the other. Well,

3 (46m 0s):
Obviously you know it well,

4 (46m 2s):
Well, and I only know it well, but I also, if I didn't know it well, I I know how small the market is. I know how transparent the market is and, and if someone goes, if someone goes in to try to bet on sports and you're trying to fix a game, it's gonna be so obvious. It's so easy to detect and it's so easy to, and today it's even easier. And the good thing about legalized sports betting is it's so transparent. Everybody who has an account, you know, you take all of these young players that haven't, you know, they haven't been, I'll call it school correctly, they haven't been, they haven't, you know, whether it be their teams or whomever, they haven't explained to them, you know, the repercussions about betting on sports if they're a professional athlete.

4 (46m 44s):
You know, we've had some here recently that, you know, basically these guys are kids, Joe, they're kids, they don't know any better. And, and someone should have sat down with them and explained to them the ramifications of what they were doing. Maybe they did, maybe they didn't. But the one, we've had a few of 'em out there now, but you know, you've seen how quick they catch 'em because it's all transparent. They go in and make these bets, it doesn't take 'em any time at all to figure out who they are, if they're a football player or whatever they're doing. And it's been brought to public's attention. So, you know, if, if it's that easy to catch them, somebody out there making large bets on something, moving the line substantially and you don't know who this person is and you're looking at and they do this more than one time or two times and you're seeing an outcome of a game that doesn't make sense, it isn't gonna take long to figure this out.

3 (47m 33s):
Now when you get to a situation like a guy like Pete Rose, that was, that was a, a fascinating situation because this was at the time where gambling was illegal unless you're in Vegas, it was, it's d and you find out he might be betting on the team that he, he's coaching and he also might also be betting against his team.

4 (47m 56s):
I never, I I've never heard anyone ever say that Pete Rose bet against his team. I'm not saying it didn't happen, but I've never heard that allegation.

3 (48m 3s):
I know he was accused of it. Right. Is that okay? I don? Think so? You don't think so. I

4 (48m 7s):
Don't think. No, I don't think so.

3 (48m 8s):
I thought someone was saying,

4 (48m 9s):
Yeah, John Dowd I think actually investigated this for the, for baseball.

3 (48m 16s):
So he was always betting for his team. I

4 (48m 18s):
Think he did bet on his team. But don don't think he ever bet against his team? No sir. I never heard that.

3 (48m 22s):
What was the problem with him betting against his team or betting for his team rather that seems like that just would be a guy who has confidence in his team.

4 (48m 30s):
Well, personally I don't see a problem with it, but the people who are running baseball or whatever the sport is, I haven't thought it really out. Probably it, if I were on their side of it and really thought through all of the, the different pluses and minuses, I may have a different opinion right off the shoulder. I really don't see a problem him betting on his team or anyone betting on their team, although others do. And so, and I'm trying to think of a good reason as to why it would be a problem him betting him on his team.

4 (49m 10s):
I really haven't thought about that

3 (49m 11s):
Closely. Was was he ever accused,

5 (49m 13s):
I don't think I mean, I'm looking at the No, like the ES espn No, outside the line of story there, the obtained documents, there's no evidence that Rose was a player manager in 86 bet against his team. No. They show a vivid snapshot on how extensive his betting life was. Yes, Betsy did make, and

3 (49m 28s):
So it could have been just unfair accusations designed to taint his reputation even further.

4 (49m 33s):
No, no, I think he did bet on his team No,

3 (49m 35s):
Against, yeah.

4 (49m 36s):
Well if anyone, if anyone accused him of betting against his team, I I think they're wrong. 'cause I never heard that. and I, I don't even think on the report that Mr. Dowd issued on behalf of the, of, of, of Major League baseball. I don't think there was ever any allegations in there that, that he bet on his team. but

3 (49m 54s):
It seems kind of crazy, right? Wasn't he he's removed from the Hall of Fame.

4 (49m 57s):
Well he never was in the Hall of Fame. Right. But but he, but his consideration, he's, he's, he's never been voted in the hall of fame for that reason

5 (50m 4s):
In 2022. He is bringing up a point where there's a manager or a player on the Rockies had signed an endorsement deal with Maxim Bet and he said like if what he did was happening now, no one would ever think anything of it. Right?

3 (50m 18s):
Yeah, yeah.

4 (50m 20s):
Well I don't know about that either because there was a, there was a young college player who's now I think a pro who was betting on, on his team and I and I don't, I don't think the NFL or I don don't think First of all, I don't think they, I don't think they want you betting on sports period, but, but I don't think I even betting on your own team, don, don't think they want you to bet on your own team.

3 (50m 46s):
Are you aware of the the UFC betting scandal?

4 (50m 48s):
No sir. I'm not.

3 (50m 49s):
So the UFC there, it didn't use to be rules in terms of like I could bet if I wanted to, anybody could bet on fights and what was going on was there was one trainer and the allegations were that this trainer was involved in an online betting group and he was letting these people in this online betting group know that one of the people that he was involved with was injured and pretty significant injury. This guy winds up going out and fighting loses in the first round. Hurts his knee. Yep. Like throws a kick, blows his knee out. Apparently his knee was already hurt. Then they find out that this guy had been doing this for quite a while, or allegedly had been doing this for quite a while.

3 (51m 31s):
Yep. And so then they pass this law now or pass a rule with the UFC that no one can gamble. Hmm. But I would imagine that fighting is probably the most difficult thing to get right in terms of, to figure out a line. Is that, did you do any gambling on boxing or MMA fights?

4 (51m 51s):
I haven't done any, any gambling on MMA fights. I had fighters in the past. I had three boxers and in Las Vegas and we trained at Johnny Taco's Gym. Okay.

3 (52m 2s):
Yeah. Great gym. And

4 (52m 3s):
One of my best friends in the world, Billy Baxter, he, he had fighters at the same time. He had better fighters than I did record wise. He had Roger Mayweather who McCain

3 (52m 13s):
Black Mamba.

4 (52m 14s):
Yeah, that's exactly right. And Jesse Reid was our trainer. And making prices on boxing I, I didn't think was difficult at all. M-M-A-I-I, you know, back to kinda what you're talking about there again. Well, the NFL, you know, you're talking about transparency. I mean if a player's injured, they have to report that, that the team does the league this. So the public knows that. And you know, they have regular reporting requirements. And then like before the NFL games, every Sunday an hour and a half before the games, they have to come out with a file report. So, you know, for whatever reason, and Boxing I know when I had fighters that there wasn't a requirement to disclose that.

3 (53m 6s):
Now famously, Manny Pacquiao was injured going into the Floyd Mayweather fight.

4 (53m 9s):
Yes, that's what I heard. And a lot of people

3 (53m 10s):
Were furious about the 'cause a lot of money exchanged hands during that fight. Yeah.

4 (53m 15s):
Yes it did. Yes it did. So the, again, not knowing as much as I, I would like to know before I, I make a comment on something. My only thinking is, is that You don, you know, a lot, a lot more about MMA fighting than, than I'll ever know you and my friend Kevin Ley. The, would it make any sense to make that a requirement to disclose injuries?

3 (53m 45s):
It would, yeah. If you, if you're dealing with gambling, it would unfortunately though, then you would give your fighter, the other fighter, the opponent a massive advantage. If you know, this guy's got a knee injury, you're gonna target that knee. If you, you know, this guy's got a hand injury, you are gonna know he can't punch. Right. Yeah. There's, there's certain things that would change every aspect of your strategy for a fight. If you found out that a fighter was injured, especially if there's something that would prevent them from grappling, you would know. They probably didn't do any grappling in camp. And so you'd go with a grappling heavy strategy. Yeah. Just grab a hold of them quickly, really force 'em to wrestle if, you know he is got a blown out knee and he can't really adjust right on the feet or shoot for take downs or even defend them.

3 (54m 26s):
Well, yeah, yeah, you would, you would definitely change things. And fighters hide injuries all the time. I mean, Dr is duy, when he won against Robert Whitaker, he had a broken foot and you know, he beat one of the top guys in the world with a broken foot. And that's kind of crazy that fighters do that, but that, that's the type of human being you're dealing with and they can win that way. Yeah. Like it doesn't necessarily know, just because you know that a guy's injured doesn't mean that there's guy's gonna lose, there's certain guys that they find a way to win no matter what. Right. And I would imagine that that what I would, would, the thing that would give me pause is scoring judges, scoring is horrible.

3 (55m 7s):
It's the worst part of the sport. It's so bad. It's so bad that maybe 10 to 20% of fights, you'll have one car that's so off, you're like, what the fuck was that guy watching? It happens all the time where as commentators we're just scratching our head, like, how did he give it to the other guy in what world? and I will go back and watch it again and see if I'm being biased, I'll, I'll watch it with the sound off, I'll just analyze all the positions and all the things that's happening and damage done and control the octagon and pushing the pace. I'll look at the volume, I'll look at the amount of strikes landed and then I'll be like, how, how the fuck did that guy see it for the other person?

3 (55m 51s):
It doesn't make any sense. and I always wonder if someone's on the take. I always wonder, 'cause I know that there was a case in Vegas where there was a woman who had given out very questionable decisions, like multiple questionable decisions. And the last one was so egregious that she kind of just went away. But I've always wondered if those people were on the take. 'cause Don King famously was a sneaky dude and did a lot of very, you know, very under the radar shit. That was probably not good. and I would think that if you have a fighter and that fighter's working for you, you would definitely have relationships at the very least with these judges.

3 (56m 32s):
So they would be more inclined to score for you. Maybe you take 'em on a vacation, maybe you, you know, take 'em to dinner. Maybe you, you do whatever you can do to get inside their good graces. And then if it's like, eh, this guy or this guy, I'm gonna go with this guy 'cause I like Don King or you know, Bob Arum, he does me well. So I'm gonna, I'm gonna lean towards that guy. That would be a real issue with me if I was gambling, particularly on boxing

4 (56m 59s):
Back when I got in, I was betting on boxing before I had fighters. But after I had,

3 (57m 4s):
When you say you had fighters, what do you mean by that? Like, I,

4 (57m 7s):
I had three fighters.

3 (57m 8s):
So you had contracts with them, like, oh yeah, yeah. And what is the contract involved?

4 (57m 12s):
Well, I was our manager.

3 (57m 14s):
Oh, okay. Yeah.

4 (57m 15s):
And three, actually three young men I brought out from, from Louisville. And that was a connection. My wife and I are both from Kentucky originally. And Billy. I, I love boxing. I I always loved fighting when, you know, I used to go to all the fights. It's a silver slipper. The, you know, we, you know, it's, you know, just, I, I enjoyed it a lot. And so

3 (57m 41s):
You go into the smaller regional cards.

4 (57m 43s):
Oh yeah. In Las Vegas I mean. Yeah. You know, I remember at the Hacienda, which is the Mandalay Bay Day, that's where the ESPN television televised fights. That's where they began in Las Vegas. and I, remember I had a fighter, he was really good fighter. He'd won the National Golden Clubs like five, six times as an amateur fighter. He'd beat Aren Pryor. His name was Terry Silver. And he was a lightweight and really, really, really good amateur and I. I remember in order to get his first fight on television, there, we had to agree to, with Bruce t Traer and Bob Arum, we had to agree to multiple contracts if he won to fight.

4 (58m 27s):
That's the only way we get him on the cart. That sounds

3 (58m 29s):
Like a bob a move.

4 (58m 31s):
Yeah, but back to what you're talking about, those days in the eighties, I mean you had Duke Durham, duke Durham, who was Don King's guy in Las Vegas, and then Of course you had Don and you had Bruce Tamp t traveller, that was Bob Ham's guy. And you know, I mean, you look at the various organizations that did the ratings of the fighters, and you look at some of the fighters, I mean, if they were signed with the right guy, I mean they'd be ranked in the, you know, in the top 10. And a lot of 'em couldn't bust a grape. And then you'd have guys that didn't, that weren't signed or hadn't agreed to those contracts and they couldn't get ready.

4 (59m 15s):
They couldn't get a fight. Mm. So you're right, there was a tremendous amount of politics in it, and that's the primary reason I got out of it. And, but I, I still love boxing. I love fighting. don don't understand MMA as nearly as well as you do.

3 (59m 31s):
I can help

4 (59m 31s):
You out. I'm sure you could. And like I said, I have a friend, Kevin Oli, I think you probably know. Yeah.

3 (59m 36s):
I know Kevin very well. He's

4 (59m 37s):
A good friend. And he good guy. Yeah, he is a good guy. And

3 (59m 40s):
He's been covering MMA forever.

4 (59m 41s):
Yes, he has. And, and so I'm gonna, I'm gonna make it, make it my business to learn more about MMA and

3 (59m 48s):
It's complicated.

4 (59m 49s):
Yeah. I'm sure it is.

3 (59m 50s):
But a guy like you that knows as much as you would know about sports, you, you could get into it.

4 (59m 54s):
I'm sure it'll enjoy it.

3 (59m 55s):
It's a complicated thing to, to watch and pick and pick fights. It's a complicated thing to gamble on because I think there's a, you have to have an understanding of a person's physical ability independent of watching them in fights. You have to be able to assess. Like I can look at a fighter, like a guy like Ia Topoya who just won the world title against Vul Kovski. When I would watch him fight and train, even though he was against lesser competition than Vul Kovski, I was seeing the speed of his strikes, the accuracy, the good, the, the defense, how good the defense was, his durability.

3 (1h 0m 35s):
I was seeing this advantage. I was like, man, even though this guy is an, he's an underdog, he's fighting the most dominant featherweight of all time. I'm like, this guy's got some big advantages. He's just got a big advantages that I see as a fighter, as a person who knows how to fight. And I'm watching the way he moves. I'm like, he moves better. Yeah. He he's more precise, he's more accurate. It's complicated. And then you have to take into account, you know, how many times the guy's been fighting that year, how banged up he is because just like quarterbacks on football days, you're going to fight injured. Everybody fights injured. Oh yeah. There's always something. There's always a neck thing or a back thing or a hand thing. No fight or fights. A hundred percent. Very, very, very rarely I should say.

3 (1h 1m 17s):
Right. But the, the, again, the thing that drives me the most crazy is the decisions. Because if I was a Gambler and I laid a, a big bet on IA Depo and for some reason it went five rounds and they give it to Chenowski and it's a terrible decision. There's not a more robbed feeling in the world. I know. That's a, that's a dirty feel 'cause it's so subjective as opposed to scoring. If you're watching a basketball game, if the the Lakers score more, they win. It's real simple. The ball goes in the net more you win with fighting. You got three people. Some of 'em don't know how to fight at all.

3 (1h 1m 59s):
And they're the ones who are deciding who wins, who doesn't win fights.

4 (1h 2m 3s):
Well, yeah, lot I mean back in the eighties that way, a lot of those controversial decisions in boxing. Oh yeah. That another reason that I got out of boxing.

3 (1h 2m 13s):
Yeah, there's some bad ones. Even in the two thousands, Manny Pac and Tim Bradley, that was one where everybody was like, what the fuck? and I think, think that lady that I was talking about was involved in that one as well. There's been quite a few of 'em. And when someone is an incredibly popular fighter, like a Canelo Alvarez or something like that, where there's so much money invested in this fighter and there's so much money potentially in future matchups that if they lose, boy, that gets switch the amount of money you make by an extraordinary amount. But if they get away with a robbery, just a little bit of a robbery over six months, a year, two years, people forget. They forget. Well,

4 (1h 2m 51s):
You gotta factor that into your handicapping.

3 (1h 2m 53s):
Yeah. You have to factor in possible robberies

4 (1h 2m 57s):
Or them getting the best of it. Right.

3 (1h 2m 59s):
Yeah. That's crazy. You have to factor that in. How did, how would you like, so when you were gambling on boxing, what's the biggest bet that you ever made on a fight? Oh,

4 (1h 3m 7s):
I never met any real large bets on fights.

3 (1h 3m 9s):
What's a not large bet for

4 (1h 3m 11s):
You though, when Hackler fought Sugar Ray at Caesar's? I think I bet about 200,000 when I fight.

3 (1h 3m 17s):
Who'd you bet on? I bet, I

4 (1h 3m 18s):
Bet on Sugar

3 (1h 3m 19s):
Ray. Did you really? I think you got lucky. I did get lucky. I think Hadler won that fight.

4 (1h 3m 23s):
Oh, well, I, I, my, my man Billy Baxter, he liked, he liked Sugar Ray quite a bit and there was a guy named Herbie Hoops at that time that was pretty sharp guy. And anyway, but

3 (1h 3m 34s):
You know, the Haggler one is a weird one. It was a weird 'cause he loses that fight and then goes and becomes a superstar in Italy. Yep. Where's the mob from Billy? Where's the mob from? Oh, I mean, if I had to guess and watch that fight when I watched that fight, it's almost like Haggler wasn't trying to take him out. It was almost, man, I wish he was alive today. And he's one of my all time favorite fighters, I have to say. I grew up in Boston and he

4 (1h 3m 59s):
Was a tough man.

3 (1h 4m 1s):
He, he embodied discipline. Yes, he did. He was the man. And he was what, probably before Terence Crawford, one of the best switch hitters that's ever played in the game or ever fought. He was incredible. He was so good at being able to switch Southpaw Orthodox. He fought equally well from both sides. Yeah. And he confused the shit outta people because of that. Yeah. That's a great skill. And that's something Terrence Crawford does so well, such a good skill. The ability to switch sides. It's just so baffling. And if you've ever sparred before, if you're used to sparring orthodox people and then you sparring at South Paw, your whole brain has to do all these extra calculations. And if you're not accustomed to sparring with just sparring with South Paws, forget about fighting them.

3 (1h 4m 41s):
It screws everything up in your head. You have to readjust. And if, unless you've gone through a whole camp South Paws, like that's one thing that people are very reluctant to do. Like, say if a fighter is scheduled to fight an Orthodox fighter and then two weeks out that guy gets injured and then another guy steps in to take his place. You find out this guy's a South Paul, like, oh shit. Like, it's such a different strategy. Everything changes with your movement. Your You don, you don't want to lead into the power hand. So instead of circling to the left, now you're circling to the right. Like there's a lot going on.

4 (1h 5m 11s):
Well, the same thing goes with with South Bowl quarterbacks. Mm.

3 (1h 5m 15s):
I would imagine. Oh yeah, yeah. Big difference. Oh yeah. Ball's coming from a totally different angle. Yeah. Yep. And the tendencies are different too. Yep. There's something also, I, I don't, I'm not a left-handed person, but I have a theory about left-handed people. I think they just get better at things quicker. I think there's something about left-handed people, they see the way everybody's doing everything backwards. And so they have to see the way they do it and then do it their way. and I think there's some sort of an advantage in that.

4 (1h 5m 41s):
Okay, well I hadn't thought that one out yet, but

3 (1h 5m 43s):
Some of the best pool players are left-handed. Yeah, there's a lot of like killer left-handed pool players. There's a lot of killer left-handed fighters. Yes. I know a lot of people that are left-handed. They just seem to have, there's like an extra thing that they have that Orthodox people don't have. I hadn't

4 (1h 5m 58s):
Thought about that

3 (1h 5m 58s):
One. But you don't take that into consideration when you I

4 (1h 6m 0s):
Hadn't, but I hadn't. But I'm gonna go take a look at it.

3 (1h 6m 4s):
So what was the biggest fight bet that you ever put on?

4 (1h 6m 7s):
Probably that one I mean, I I How much was that? The one that meant the most to me? How

3 (1h 6m 11s):
Much was the Hackler fight? Couple

4 (1h 6m 12s):
Hundred grand probably. But the one that absolutely meant the most to me is Terry Silver. This kid I told you I got the fight at, at, we were at the Hacienda, which is now Mandalay Bay, and it was, it was a six round fight. It was his first six rounder and he's fighting some kid out of la you know Jimmy Montoya? No. Well, Jimmy Montoya has been training fighters in LA for a bazillion years. And he, any stable back in those days, he had like 120 fighters. Okay. And he would bring guys over, whether it be the silver slipper or the showboat or the hace, and a lot, a lot of his fighters were on the card and he brought over this Hispanic kid and this, this kid's fighting Terry.

4 (1h 6m 59s):
And you looked at the guy's record and you know, he, I think he was like maybe one three, lost two. And he had a draw. And I'm thinking, well, this guy's got like zero chance, so this is back when I'm drinking some too. So we, we go to the fight, my wife Susan and I and Billy's working a spit bucket and fight starts and I'm betting everybody out, can, betting the crowd. I'm laying five to one, 10 to one 20 to one up. I think I'm, I'm just stealing, you know, I mean, I think Terry's probably gonna knock him out in the first round. Well, Terry had gotten him a girlfriend in the meantime. Oh no. And so he goes out there and first round he probably hit this guy 80 times.

4 (1h 7m 44s):
The guy never laid a glove on him. He, this kid, Terry Silver, had a really, really good lift jab as good as any you've ever seen in your life. But he didn't have a lot of power and the, and the, and the amateur ranks, like I said, he won like five national golden gloves. But when he turned pro, he did, he really didn't have a, a real, real good punch. So he came out in the second round and he drops these gloves and he is showing off and this kid hit him. And when he hit him, his mouthpiece went out and then he's got the wailing on his head. And I'm thinking, I'm sitting, I'm watching this, I can't believe it. And he, you know, he kind of knocked silly, so to speak.

4 (1h 8m 23s):
Well, Terry's, you know, but he's, he had enough fights. He probably had his ena amateur probably 50, 60 fights. So he got outta the round. So they come out in the third round and he still ain't shaking it completely off. And the guy goes wailing on him again. And now you know, he's bleeding and he's got a gash over one eye. Blood's coming out. Look, blood's coming out of his mouth. So the fourth round comes, comes out. He still just wearing him out with my wife. Susan said, look, you gotta stop his fight. So I run down to Billy and I said Billy, I said, stop the fight. and I said, by the way, I need to borrow 50,000. He looked up, he looked up at me and he said, let's let him go a little longer.

6 (1h 9m 10s):
So

4 (1h 9m 10s):
Terry gets, he gets, he gets outta the round, he comes out in the fifth round and the fight completely turns around and he starts waiting. I mean he starts, he got, you know, he's, he starts wearing this other guy's head out and he wins the fifth round. I mean it's not even close. So they come out for the sixth round. And this was only a sixth round fight, Joe, but it was one of the best fights I've ever seen in my life. And I mean they stood toe to toe in the six round and they fought and bell rings. Well, I got a draw and it, oh, and it, but it was one of the best fights I've ever seen. It was a six round fight. and I got a draw. And the reason I got a draw is I had a kid was a real classy fighter.

4 (1h 9m 52s):
And I gotta tell you the, I gotta tell you the ending of this story. I'm in prison, I'm in Pensacola and I get letters and I got a letter and I hadn't seen Terry Silver since then. When I, when I gave up the fighters, I gave Terry to somebody. I gave Tyrone Moore to Billy and I gave Dana Roston to Billy. I'm in prison. Fast forward 2018, 19, I wish I'd have brought the letter. I'll send you a copy of the letter. and I letter said Terry Silver. And he said, Billy said, you know, I remember he was talking about the fight and he said, you know, he, and he said, you know, I remember you tried to stop the fight.

4 (1h 10m 34s):
He said, I, he said, I could not lose that fight for you and Miss Susan. And he went on to talk about, you know, that and talked about our relationship. And anyway, he sent me this letter and I I mean I don know, 40 years later I get this letter in president from this kid. And it's all about that night, that fight at the end and, and how he wasn't gonna lose that fight any, and he wasn't gonna allow him to lose his himself. That fight because of, of, of, of Susan and me. and it was touching.

3 (1h 11m 3s):
Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Dodge that bullet, huh? Yeah. and I need to borrow 50 grand.

4 (1h 11m 8s):
Yeah, well the Billy would've stopped the fight. But the problem was, I said, I need to borrow 50,000. He said he, he hesitate. He said, let's let him go

3 (1h 11m 16s):
A little longer. That's hilarious. That's hilarious. Wow. So what did you wind up going to jail for?

4 (1h 11m 26s):
I went to jail for insider trading. The See Joe publicly, people know I've been on sports and they know I'm, you know, pretty good at that. And the, but I do a lot of other things, Joe, since the late eighties, you know, I've owned golf courses. I had seven golf courses in Las Vegas, which, you know, I built from scratch. Four of 'em and the other three. But I've owned and operated golf courses since the late eighties. I've had golf courses in Chicago, New Mexico, Arizona, and, but I had seven in Las Vegas. You know, when I got out of school, I went into the automobile business. I got, I was in it 16 years, I got out.

4 (1h 12m 7s):
But I'm in in the automobile business too. So I had 22 car dealerships at one time. So at the golf courses, car dealerships, battle and sports. But I also invest, I invest in stock. So I invest my own money, not someone else's money. And you know, actually I probably have a bigger presence with that than I do betting sports because it's a bigger market. You, you can, you can bet more. Well I bought a stock, I'd owned it for 10 years and the I'd gotten involved, there was an SEC investigation. The initial investigation was into myself and Carl Icahn. and it involved a stock trade that I did with that, that he'd owned stock in.

4 (1h 12m 50s):
And that investigation went three and a half years. It went nowhere 'cause there was nothing there. There was no wrongdoing at all. And then, and then there was a stock that I'd owned for 10 years, a stock called Dean Foods and Dean. And they'd been involved in a material transaction. They'd spun off a part of their company and I owned a large amount of the stock. And the SEC was looking at anyone who bought and sold stock around a certain period of time. and I was one of those people. And it was at the end of the other investigation. And because of my notoriety, who I was, I'd been indicted six times before and I'd gone to court and beat beat 'em five times.

4 (1h 13m 33s):
That started in 1983.

3 (1h 13m 38s):
So you were already a Mark Mann. Well,

4 (1h 13m 39s):
Yeah, Mark Mann was the last,

3 (1h 13m 41s):
What did you have been indicted for?

4 (1h 13m 43s):
I've been indicted for betting on sports Joe Joe's stopping and try to get your head around this one. In 1990 in Las Vegas, Nevada, the gaming capital of the world, the FBI took myself and my wife out of our home and handcuffs and my wife, they had leg irons on her and we were arrested and we were charged with being a part of a criminal conspiracy. Conspiring to bet on sports, bet on sports. Now here we are, 2024, betting on sports is legal in the majority of the United States. In 2023 in Las Vegas as a Circle Hotel, I was an inducted into the sports gamblers Hall of Fame for betting on sports.

4 (1h 14m 32s):
So how, but in 1990 in Las Vegas, Nevada, I was indicted along with my wife and charged with betting on sports. So yeah, I'd gone to court a number of times. I had beat 'em a number of times. Every one of the indictments were centered around my sports betting. That's what they were centered around. Nothing more, less. But I, you know, I was a sports bet.

3 (1h 14m 57s):
So was sports betting illegal? What were the laws?

4 (1h 14m 60s):
No, absolutely. It wasn't

3 (1h 15m 1s):
Illegal.

4 (1h 15m 1s):
No, no, not illegal at all. I was charged with being part of a criminal conspiracy, conspiring to bet on sports betting people in other states. It was ridiculous. I went to court, my wife and I, we were exonerated.

3 (1h 15m 16s):
So was it because it was legal in Vegas, but not legal in other states.

4 (1h 15m 19s):
They tried to make it that way. But when we went to court and the facts came out, we were exonerated in all the charges. There was one charge. The, the vote was 11 to one to acquit us. And come to find out, the one guy who voted against us hadn't told the truth in his, in his interview to be on the jury. He was a former police officer. And so anyway, they chose not to indict us. They dropped the case, it was over with, but we were exonerated all the charges except the one charge. And we, they were voted 11 to one to acquit us on that. And then, and then I was indicted three times after that for the same thing. Batting on sports. It was thrown out of court every time. And then, so anyway, but what happens, what I realized through all of this, Joe, is the, the higher profile you have, the bigger target you become, especially if you're someone who's beat him a, a, a number of times over a period of years, there, there becomes a vendetta.

4 (1h 16m 13s):
You're the guy that everybody wants to bring down. And then I'm involved in New York originally with a guy with Carl Icahn, one of the, you know, one of the most successful in investors in the history of the world. And, and that investigation went nowhere 'cause there was nothing there. And then this issue came up with Dean Foods and, and bottom line was there was a lot of motivation to, to get me to indict me. And that's exactly what happened. The four people that were five people involved, in my case, three prosecutors, a supervisor, and the former US attorney, four of 'em, as soon as my case was over, within a matter of months held press conferences.

4 (1h 16m 53s):
And their claim to fame was they had sent me to prison. Three of 'em have gone into private practice today. Their sole business is, they represent people with white collar crimes in the southern district in New York. They bring them back over and they, with the people that they worked with for years, and they cut deals. The fourth one ran for the US Congress in New York. He's now a United States congressman and the, and the guy who was a former US attorney, he is now working for a law firm representing people with white collar crimes. So they go, they went from what they were doing to these very high paying jobs, making a lot of money. The other fellows now in politics, he's a, he's a congressman from New York.

4 (1h 17m 37s):
So there's a lot of motivation for people on that side to send high profile people to prison. And that's kind of how they get to the next rung of the letter, so to speak. You know, the reason I wrote this book, Joe, is I started, I began to write this book in 2003 with a guy in Las Vegas. His name was Jack Sheehan, good friend, good writer, good guy. And we worked on it for a while. and I decided, I'm not writing any book. Okay, well, fast forward 2017, I walked into federal prison in Pensacola, Florida when I was 71 years old with a five year sentence, which could've easily been a life sentence.

4 (1h 18m 22s):
And while I was in prison, my daughter committed suicide. So I had to write this book, I had to write it for a number of reasons. I wanted to share my childhood that you and I went over a little bit. I want, I want to help people because, you know, I don't care who you are or what point you're at in your life, we all have issues that we're dealing with. So I wanted to share my childhood, and then I wanted to share, you know, the, the addictions that I had when I was younger, I had, I had an issue with alcohol, I got addicted to betting sports. And then later on in my life, as I became more mature and I was able to overcome those things, you know, I got in business.

4 (1h 19m 8s):
I've been successful with that and, you know, I've become a fairly successful Sportsbet. So, and then I went to prison, which I had to share that experience because when I went into prison, there was only one positive thing that came outta that Joe. I mentored around two dozen men and some of these men have been in prison 20, 25 years. And it really opened my eyes, you know, every time there was a visitation where I was at in prison, I had someone who visited me. 60% of the people in prison never get a visit. But these men that I mentored, not a one of 'em wanted to go back to prison, but I spent a lot of one-on-one time with 'em.

4 (1h 19m 54s):
And the closer they would get the release, you know, the more apprehensive they became I mean tough guys. You know, I mean tough guys, you know, rip guys that had been in prison 20, 25 years, they would become very emotional. They didn't wanna go back to prison, but they, they knew they were probably gonna come back to prison because they had no way to earn a living. The only thing they'd learned in prison was how to become a better criminal. And yeah, they were gonna get out while they were in a halfway house. They were gonna get a job someplace making minimum wage. But as soon as that was over, they had to do something to feed their families. And they, you know, they didn't, they had no job skillset.

4 (1h 20m 35s):
So when I got outta prison, I knew I had to try to do something about that. Okay? And so I got involved with Harry Reid when I originally got outta prison, former senator from Nevada, former, you know, majority leader. and I got involved with Harry because clearly Democrats are in power and new and I wanted to put vocational schools in the federal prisons. And I was willing to put up some of my money initially, get it started. And, and unfortunately Senator Reed passed. He passed away before we were able to get anything done. Well, a former sheriff in, in Las Vegas, bill Young, he told me, he said Billy, he said, the best reentry program in the United States.

4 (1h 21m 18s):
It, it's in Las Vegas. He said, it's called Hope for Prisoners. I said, well, I never heard of it. He said, well, I want you to meet this guy that runs it. So there's a guy who runs it, his name is John Ponder, who's been in prison twice himself, twice. He started his program in 2012. Joe, the recidivism rate is only 5%. So, you know, being a leery guy, being a Gambler, you know, there's a lot of people looking for your money these days. We all know that. But I met with John Ponder and the became really impressed with him. But the more I learned about him and, and the program and what he's done, I got superly impressed.

4 (1h 22m 2s):
And so my wife got, and I got more involved. We, we made some financial assistance available and they were able to, to add to some of the things they were doing as far as, you know, teaching and stuff. This is an 18 month program. These people are in, by the way. And the first thing they do, almost every one of these people have an issue with drugs. First thing they do is get 'em off of drugs. Second thing they do, they get 'em right with their families. You gotta be right with your family. And that's the reason this program works so good. And every month we have a graduation there. The graduation Joe was held at Metropolitan Police Headquarters in downtown Las Vegas.

4 (1h 22m 43s):
There's usually 50 to 75 police officers there. Come to find out there's 200 police officers in Las Vegas metro that are mentoring these people. Now, a typical graduation, you've got the mayor there, you've got the district attorney there, you've got a judge there. You've got the head of corrections for Nevada. Sometimes the governor's there if he's in town. And usually you got about a thousand people there, friends and, and you got a lot of mentors in, in the Las Vegas area that come, they come up and they receive their diplomas. And the second that's over, there's a job fair. And they all have jobs before they leave. And then in, in, in these graduations, they'll invariably always have someone who's been outta the program for a year or two years or five years, they'll come up and speak and they'll talk about their life and how it changed their life.

4 (1h 23m 31s):
So the, the current governor we have, he was a former sheriff that was involved in this program. His name is Joe Lombardo. And so Joe recognized how important it is for these people to have a job skill set when they come out of prison also. So we spoke to him and the head of corrections in Nevada, and they, and we now are putting vocational schools in Nevada prisons, and they're gonna be able to get certified to be an electrician, a plumber, air conditioned repair truck driver. And when we decided to do this Of course, it takes money.

4 (1h 24m 14s):
There was another family in Las Vegas, the Lested family. And so they agreed to put up $2 million. Susan and I agreed to put up 2 million, and the state agreed to put up a million. So the night they made this announcement, I asked, I was asked to come and speak, and I got there and there was another speaker. Her name was Alice Johnson. Do you know Alice Johnson? No. Alice Johnson is a lady that I was imprisonment at the time. But President Trump pardoned her and he pardoned her because her case got brought to his attention by Kim Kardashian. And so Alice Johnson got up and spoke, and I was blown away with her.

4 (1h 24m 55s):
and I was blown away with her speech. I think she was from Mississippi, I think, or Louisiana, one or two. And she'd gone to prison for being quote a drug mule. And if I understood her correctly and I think I did, I think her role as a drug mule was, she was, she was conveying messages between the guy selling drugs and the guy supplying drugs. And she was strictly on the phone conveying messages, never touched a drug, never sold a drug. First time offense. They gave her a life in prison with no parole. Whoa. First time offense. So she was in prison, I think about 22 years and had become a model person in prison.

4 (1h 25m 36s):
I think she become a minister and she got pardoned. And, but that was, that was, that went into either all or most of the prisons in the United States that night. So we followed it up, we went out to Indian Springs State Prison in Nevada, and we walked in the gymnasium. I was there with John Ponder and myself, and, and there's don don't know, 5, 600, 800 inmates there. And when we originally walked in, we started talking to 'em, you could kinda see, you know, they were kind of disinterested. Some were listening, but most weren't. But when John got up and he got to talking about what we were gonna do, you could see they started to get more interested.

4 (1h 26m 18s):
And when I got up there, you know, I said, well, you guys are probably trying to figure out what this old granite dude here to talk to you about today. So I kinda explained to them while I was there, what my background was, the fact that I'd been in prison and what we were gonna do with the vocational schools. Well, Joe, when you got finished, you could hear a pen drop and we started doing q and a and, and it seems like the questions went on forever. Finally. So the correctional officer said, you know, they have to get back. And we had to end, end the q and a, but now we have vocational schools in Nevada, prisons in Neva. And it's just, to me, it's, it's not only those men that I remembered that I mentored, okay, when they go home, a lot of them have families.

4 (1h 27m 9s):
You know, they got four or five children, okay? So those children, if that father goes home and he has a job as an electrician, a plumber, air conditioning repair, their father is no longer a criminal. Their father is an electrician, he's a plumber. and I think there's a much greater chance that that child will follow in those footsteps and possibly that of, of crime. A life of crime. So anyway, long story, but that's

3 (1h 27m 38s):
A beautiful thing to be proud of.

4 (1h 27m 39s):
Well, I am proud of it. And the, but there were a number of reasons I wrote this book. I mean, I, you know, I see the, so-called whatever number you pick out, the 50 million new people that have been in sports and I, see the way that sports has been marketed, the way it's being pitched to these people. and I can see, you know, it's, it's almost a sense that a large, large part of gonna become addicted. Okay? If, if I had been pitched on sports the way they were being pitched on sports today with a phone, I mean I got addicted without it. I can only imagine what it would've been with it. And then on top of it, there's no there, there's no law whatsoever now that they have to disclose anything.

4 (1h 28m 20s):
So people are making bets on sports. They have no idea what the odds are they're laying or getting or anything else. There's no disclosure whatsoever. And then on top of that, you know, they, they don't even understand the basics of sports betting. So I wanted to put that in the book. And by the way, Joe, you didn't ask me this, a hundred percent of any money that comes outta this book goes to charity, it goes to Opportunity Village in Las Vegas, which is an organization that works with intellectually challenged people. It goes to hope for prisoners and it goes to an organization in Louisville, Kentucky called Cedar Lake Lodge, which works with intellectually challenged people.

3 (1h 28m 59s):
That's beautiful. Yeah. That's really great that you're doing that, man. It really is. This, this case that they got you on insider trading, what was the allegation? What'd they say that you had done?

4 (1h 29m 9s):
Well, they said that a guy who was on the board at the time had passed me along non-public information. and I had taken that non-public information and I had used it to trade on the stock, take advantage, unfair advantage, illegal advantage, and made money. And that was the allegation and that's what I was convicted of. and I went to prison. Now, you know, I could give you the background of the details of it, Joe, and I think even, even as, even the life you lived, I think you'd find, you would find it fairly interesting. I owned this stock for 10 years and this fellow who was on a board of directors, his name was Tom Davis.

4 (1h 29m 57s):
I originally met this guy in Dallas, Texas in like 2000 and I was trying to raise money. I was trying to buy American golf and national golf properties. He was running Donaldson, Lufkin and Ette in Dallas at the time, which was an investment bank. and I went there, there to try to raise the money to buy these entities. and I wasn't, I didn't raise any money through him, but I hit it off with him. I liked the guy a lot. He played golf and we knew some other people. He had a home in La Jolla at the time. And so we, we became friends 2002, Donald Lukin and General got sold out and he started his own private investment firm.

4 (1h 30m 42s):
And then, you know, he would call us on deals in Las Vegas. And, and we invested in some of the deals. He called us on some of the deals we, we didn't invest in. This guy was a very prominent guy in Dallas. He owned part of the Dallas Stars, he owned part of the Texas Rangers. He was a member of Preston Trail Country Club when he was in La Jolla. I played golf with him. I played a member guest with him one time at La Jolla Country Club. I had a lot of respect for this guy. And every time I was ever around this guy, he was the most buttoned up guy that you could ever imagine. And didn't realize it at the time. and I don't think most people around him realized it, but I think he ended up with a real issue with alcohol.

4 (1h 31m 26s):
and it looked, and it came out in court, it looked like he ended up with some sort of a uncontrollable issue, I think with women too. And the, I think he lost all his money gambling. And, and then what happened after he lost all his money gambling, he was on board of directors of a charity in, in Dallas, and he'd actually embezzled some money from them to pay some of his gambling debts. Clearly I was totally unaware of any of this, or don don't think anyone, and most people in don don't think anyone in Texas even know about it. Especially, you know, the people at Dean Foods. Well, what happened is, Dean Foods, when I got involved with it early on, they were made up of like three different divisions.

4 (1h 32m 14s):
They had just a, we'll call it a regular milk division, which was a majority of, of their business, majority of their revenue. Then they had an organic division called WhiteWave. And then they had another division that primarily sold products to institutions, say like McDonald's and long shelf type products. Well, during the years, people quit drinking a lot less milk, we'll call it fluid milk. And as a result, the fluid milk business was in decline. The organic business was growing leaps and bounds, you know, soy milk, oat milk, different types of, of those types of different milks.

4 (1h 32m 57s):
Well, the stock trade traded at a, at a depressed price because the majority of their, of their revenue came from fluid milk, just regular old milk. But the other parts of their business, they were growing substantially. And that was really the play with the stock. Now, the, the federal government, they set the price of raw milk every month. That's publicized. So that's what the farmer gets for his milk when he sells it to someone who's, who's, who's in the milk business. So I, I bought into this stock and I realized pretty quick that I thought it was like, you know, j and JI thought it was something that didn't have a lot of volatility to it.

4 (1h 33m 39s):
Well, I realized there was a lot more volatility to it than I realized because the price of milk, the price of petroleum products, because Dean Foods had a huge fleet of trucks for transportation that were, they were all running on diesel fuel and then the cartons were made out of oil. And there were a lot of things that, that had a material influence on, on how they were gonna do as a company. Well, in 2010, Dean Foods came out and publicly announced that they were looking at spending off WhiteWave, the organic division. They hired a company to come in and do an assessment and came back, said, well, the timing wasn't right for them to do it, but it was something they would certainly consider in the future if they felt like it was in the best interest of the company.

4 (1h 34m 30s):
In 2000, I sold all of my stock in 2011, the very end of 2011, I bought 58,900 shares of that stock from JP Morgan. And the only reason I bought the stock, and for me it was a very, very small amount of stock, a very small investment. The only reason I bought the stock was JP Morgan was their lead bank. And I knew if I ever tried to talk to that analyst about Dean Foods and he wasn't available, he was in a blackout period, maybe there was something going on, you know, 'cause I knew they were gonna spin this company off eventually. And not only did I know what everyone else know, it wasn't a matter of if, it was just a matter of when.

4 (1h 35m 15s):
So you fast forward to May of 12 that month, Deutsche Bank had come out with a report and they had predicted that WhiteWave was gonna be spun off. Well, they had an earnings report that month in May, and I had put a limited order in to buy the stock. Do you know what a limited order is? No. Well, it's like making an offer on a house. Okay, stocks a limited order on stock. Let's say the stock's trading at $10. You call your broker up and you say, okay Joe, I wanna buy so many shares of Dean Food stock, but I'm not paying any more than $10. If it goes past 10, I don't want any, but anything you can buy for 10 or less, I wanna buy this number of shares of stock.

4 (1h 35m 58s):
So I put a limited order in that day to buy that stock. And I didn't get it bought. I got half the stock bought because the price had gone up. Well, the next day they reported earnings and they also announced that they were back considering to spend off WhiteWave stock stock went up about a dollar 20 cents. I bought another 750,000 shares of stock and paid the additional dollar 20. I didn't sell a share. That was in May in June. I didn't buy any stock. In July, there was a severe drought in the United States. Corn prices went through the ceiling. And when corn prices went up, you know the price of milk's gonna go up because the farmer's gotta feed his his milk with, with with corn, right?

4 (1h 36m 46s):
Or, or, and then on top of that, what happened when, when the, when the corn prices went way up, the Dean Food stock price went, it went way down. and I had a loss on the stock at that time of, I had a paper loss of don don't know three, four, $5 million. Well, when they did that, I went back in and I bought another, say, million half shares of the stock, which was consistent with what I've done with every stock I've ever owned. Almost if I buy a stock price goes down, I'm gonna buy more of that stock to average a price out. Especially if I feel like the stock is really undervalue and I. And the only reason Dean Food stock had gone down was because of this drought.

4 (1h 37m 26s):
And the corn prices had gone up. Both those things were temporary. Droughts don't last forever. and I knew as soon as, as the drought normalized itself, the stock would go back up regardless. But on top of that, Dean Foods had announced that they were considering spending off WhiteWave stock. This was the second time publicly that they had done this. Okay? Because in 2010 they did it. They did a study. Now this is 2012. So in August when they reported earnings, they confirmed we're gonna spin off WhiteWave stock stock goes up about $4 and a half a share. I didn't sell a share, Joe. I bought another million shares. I paid an additional $4 and a half a share.

4 (1h 38m 6s):
Now, from that August until the following February the next year, every time Dean Food Stock would go down, I would buy more of it. Okay, so now we get to February of 2013 and I own 5 million, 300,000 shares of stock. Well, I wanted to buy a home in Palm Desert. So I bought a home at a place called Big Spray, big Horn Country Club. I sold a million shares of the stock to pay for the house. and I kept 4,300,000 shares. Two weeks later, Dean Foods reported earnings and the earnings were bad, the stock went down $2.

4 (1h 38m 47s):
That was one of the charges of insider trading. They charged me with Joe. They said that I had prior knowledge that the earnings were gonna be bad. I avoided a $2 million loss on a million shares of stock that I sold, but I lost 8.6 million on the stock I kept. So does that make sense to you? If you're trading on the insider trading and I would only sold a million shares of it, I I mean why wouldn't I sell it all? You know, that was one of the charges. But anyway, fast forward, I think,

3 (1h 39m 13s):
How did they try to prove that you had insider

4 (1h 39m 15s):
Information? Well, I I'm gonna get her outta that. Okay? I I, I, I'm a slow storyteller, but no worries. I like it. But I'm thorough. I had 31 months to think about this from prison, Joe. So anyway, fast forward to the following August, which was a year after they'd announced publicly they were gonna do this, I kept my 4 million, 300,000 shares. And then the following August, when they finally spun it off is when I sold my, the balance of my stock. So they did the investigation and what happens anytime there's a material transaction with the publicly traded company, the SEC, they'll send out a list of people who bought or sold significant amounts of stock to the boards of directors.

4 (1h 39m 55s):
And they'll ask them, do you know this person? And when they did Mr. Davis, he identified me and rightfully so that he, who I was, what our relationship was. So the SEC they were doing their investigation. And then after the case in New York, when Mr. Icahn and I blew went away, there was nothing there. This Dean Foods thing came up, and I didn't realize it at the time, but Tom Davis had gotten involved in some, you know, some, some, some, some pretty bad things. So the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, they leaked two stories and all the details in the book about the league stories, a hundred percent of it.

4 (1h 40m 44s):
And when they leaked these stories, and one of the stories, they put Tom Davis' name in the book. So Tom Davis and his lawyer, a guy named Hamer, they contact the SEC and they say, look, we wanna come and give a voluntary interview. So they go up, they give a voluntary interview, and they said, look, they denied emphatically that they'd ever given me any inside information. Told 'em, under no circumstances had they ever give me any inside information. Well, the SEC but more importantly the FBI continued to investigate Tom Davis. They learned that he had embezzled this money from a battered women's charity in Dallas.

4 (1h 41m 26s):
They learned that he had had a fraudulent tax return file. Because what happened when he took this money outta this charity, when he put the money back in the charity, it creates a, an entry, you know, withdrawal and an entry. Well, the guy who normally filed the taxes for the charity had told him, we're gonna have to show this withdrawal in this entry. He said, oh no, no, you can't do that. 'cause he didn't want other other people on the board of directors to know what he had done. So he gets someone else to file a return, which is fraudulent. He doesn't disclose this. And then come to find out, he had given inside information to someone else in Dallas, another man there.

4 (1h 42m 9s):
So they continued to investigate him and the, I think after he and his lawyer learned that they had him for embezzlement, they had him for tax fraud and they believed they had him for insider trading, this other man there that he had actually given inside information to. Two years after he'd given his interview, he decided that he did wanna make a deal. So his lawyer had represented Mark Cuban, in his case in Dallas when Mark Cuban had an SEC case. In that case, his lawyer had hired a lawyer out of New York, a guy named Chris Clark. And Chris Clark was the lawyer that recently represented President Bidet had had to withdraw from a case if you, or I'm sorry, he didn't represent President Bidet, I'll take that back.

4 (1h 42m 58s):
He represented President Biden's son, but he had to withdraw himself from a case for some reason, sometime back. That's the same Chris Clark. Well anyway, mill Shyer had called us Chris Clark and said, look, you know, we gave an interview two years ago, but things have, you know, evidently things have changed. They felt like they were under a threat of him getting some major jail time because he embezzled the money. He filed a fraud and tax return. And, and they, he had given us other guys that information. So Chris Clark, there's another law, a young lawyer who had just joined their firm. And this young lawyer was named Tom, his name was Naftali, and he, I think Benjamin Natalus.

4 (1h 43m 44s):
And he had just worked at the Southern District in New York, and he'd been gone for a short period of time and he'd actually worked in the, I think worked with the same prosecutors are investigating this case. So Tom Davis and Mils Shimer, they end up retaining Chris Clark and, and this Benjamin Natalus to represent them. So they go up there and decide they're going to make a deal with the government and return the government. They're not going to, you know, they're, you know, they're not going to push for him to go spend any time in prison. So he, he, do you know what a proffer is? No. Okay. I didn't know what one was either until this case came up.

4 (1h 44m 25s):
What a proffer is, Joe, if you meet with prosecutors or you meet with the FBI and you decide you're going to tell them something about someone else that's called a proffer, you're going to tell them everything you know, it has to be truthful. And, and the reason for a proffer is, is once you tell them, then they'll decide, okay, if you're willing, this is what we're willing to do for you. Well, Davis went to have these proffer sessions with the FBI and the prosecutors and pertaining to me, if You were gonna have a proffer session and you were gonna tell someone about someone else, how many proffer sessions do you think it would take for you to tell someone that story and say, let's say the proffer sessions lasted two hours each, two and a half hours each.

4 (1h 45m 19s):
How long do you think it would tell for you to explain to someone, you know, how long do you, do you think it may take? I don't know. It took him 29 of 'em. He had 29 proper sessions, Joe, 60 hours. Yeah. To get his, to get his story straight about supposedly how he gave me inside information and in court, he said, I never asked him for inside information. One time he, he, he quote voluntarily gave it to me inside information as if, as if I would know what he was giving me was inside information. He, and in court, he testified he didn't think he was gonna do one day in jail.

4 (1h 46m 1s):
Bottom line was embezzling from maturity, filing a fraudulent tax return, giving another man insider information, all those things he wasn't gonna do one day in jail for any of 'em. And he was their only witness against me, Joe. Now my lawyers caught him in a minimum of 25 lies. He had I mean he came out in court, I think on one business trip. He called 22 escort services. I mean. Well, yeah, I mean the guy, the guy was, was off the rails. No, the guy that I described to you that I met in 2000, 2002, the guy that used to own part of the Dallas Stars and the Texas Rangers, and the guy that was just I mean, he'd gone from that to this.

4 (1h 46m 49s):
And with drugs involved, don don't know a lot of alcohol's involved. I, I I know that. But to give you an idea how wacky this guy was af he pleads guilty to a bunch of felonies. I mean it wouldn't make no difference. He p plead guilty to a hundred of 'em because they told him he was convinced he wasn't gonna do a day in jail. And they were going after you. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And so anyway, after he does this, to give you an idea how wacky this guy was, after he does this, he comes to Las Vegas and he throws a party at the Wynn Hotel celebrating his deal. He is cut with the government and he lost another 50,000 or gambling. That's how whacked out this guy was. So anyway, so that was their only witness against me, Joe. They had no other witnesses against me. They had 60 days of wiretaps on me.

4 (1h 47m 31s):
How many of you think they played in court? Zero. Zero, that's right. The lead FBI agent in the case who was in charge of the entire squad of the white collar Crime Investigation Unit in New York, his name was David Chabbat. When these stories were leaked in the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, our lawyers filed a, a complaint with the court accusing the FBI and, and the southern district of, of leaking this information to the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, they came back and denied it, said this never happened, said we were on a fishing expedition. That's what Preet Bahara said.

4 (1h 48m 11s):
We were on a fishing expedition. But the judge, to their surprise, I think he said something like, well, these quotes are almost identical. The ones were made, the grand jury. See, he, he orders an evidentiary hearing, which completely shocked them because normally the judges are just a rubber stamp for 'em up there. And, and they, they just take their word. We, you know, we didn't have anything to do with this. There's no point in having a hearing. Well, this judge, he did, he said, well, we need to have an evidentiary hearing. So a couple days before the hearing, they sent a letter over to the judge. It's a letter that they, they call it in camera. What that means is it's a private letter that no one else can see.

4 (1h 48m 54s):
My lawyer's never got a copy of it, but they send this letter over to this judge. They said, judge, you know what, we did do this. He said, we, David Chavez, the head of the white collar crime unit for the FBI in New York, he's the one who did it. And said, yeah, there were five other FBI agents who were aware of it, who were in the meetings with him, but they really didn't have anything to do with it. It was just him, but he did it. And, and we wanna fess up, but we want you to keep this totally private. We don't want anyone to know anything about this. It'll hurt our reputation and, and we recommend that you hold him in contempt of court. Well, our lawyers had found out that there was a letter, but they found out we weren't, they weren't telling us what was in it.

4 (1h 49m 38s):
So, you know, my lawyers were, and you know, they got, they filed a bunch of motions and, and to make for this judge to make this letter public. Well, finally, the judge did make the letter public. And the copy of the letters in my book, there were approximately 2000 emails, Joe, they turned over five or six is what they turned over. Those public emails were in my book too. But I'm gonna give you an example of what those emails contain. There's a guy who is a journalist for the New York Times. He's still there. His name is Proti. And if his name is Ben Proti, and if you look up all the stories he does, it's pretty easy to see.

4 (1h 50m 21s):
You know, he writes stories predominantly about cases that, that involve a southern district in New York. Well, in the one email that they turned over involving Ben Pro, Ben Protis had written a story about our case and he was forced to do a redaction or correction. And when he was forced to do the correction, he was upset about this because this story had been given to him by this guy David Chavez. So he calls this Chavez up and he said, look, he said this story you gave me, I had to do this redaction. And he's, he's complaining to the guy. The guy says, look, you're on my radar screen now. And said, so is the New York Times, it's an FBI agent threatening this guy.

4 (1h 51m 6s):
So this guy pro, he calls up this guy Bel, who's the number two in the US Attorney's office. He's right under pre bahar. And he tells him a whole story. He said, you know, I did a story. I had to go into a correction. He said, I called this FBI agent and he threatened me. He threatened me, and he threatened the New York Times. This guy's obel. He sends an email out for the rest of the people in the US Attorney's office, or a number of people in the US attorney's office. And he tells him, he recants exactly what happened. This guy produce calls him up that email's in the book too. Okay? So there were five of those emails.

4 (1h 51m 47s):
There was another email in there where they, where they identify a lady who writes for the Wall Street Journal. Her name is Susan Polum. She still, she still there, she still writes for them. If you look at stuff she writes, it's very similar to Ben Pro. Very, they're all kind of government kind of stories. Chavez says he has a relationship with her. And the bottom line was, you know, like my case, if she were to call you up and interview you, things that she learned about people he was investigating, she would pass it along to him too. That's, and one of the emails they turned over, that's in my book also. So what happened is, when these two stories got leaked in the Wall Street Journal in the New York Times at the same, within seconds of each other.

4 (1h 52m 35s):
Tom Davis's name wasn't in the first one. My, my name was in there, Phil Mickelson's name was in there. Carl Icahn's name was in there. But they continued to put, to leak the stories in there. And then finally they got Davis's name in there, which when his name came in there, he gets Sharmer goes and denies it. Two years later, after they found out all these other things, he decides he is gonna be, he, he will be a witness for them in return. He doesn't think he's gonna do a day in jail. And he hires this lawyer up there who at worked with them for eight years of prosecutors. And it still takes him 29 meetings for him to get his story straight. So I go to court, he's the only witness against me, okay? They don't play one wiretap.

4 (1h 53m 15s):
But when a jury went back, Joe, and by the way, the FBI, agent Chavez was suspended from the FBI, the judge in our case referred his case to the Office of Public Integrity in Washington DC and he recommended he be charged with two felonies, criminal contempt, criminal contempt of obstruction of justice. Do you know what happened to Mr. Chavez? He was allowed to retired Joe with pay, and he is never been prosecuted for anything. Ooh, ooh, dirt. So when the jury went back and they convicted me, they didn't know that there were 60 days war taps. They didn't know that the lead FBI agent for three and a half years who had been doing this case, had been thrown outta the FBI.

4 (1h 54m 3s):
And it had been described by a judge doing their case. He said he should be charged with two fellows. They didn't know any of that. Now, in retrospect, like I said, I had 31 months to think about this. Our, our case went on for a little over three weeks. We're in the winter in, in New York. Weather's really bad. You know, they stopped the trial 15, 20 times a jury. They were sleeping and one guy snoring loud, the judge stopped the trial. So you, they'd already completely lost interest. And, and, and the, and the case is about insider trading. I mean a lot of people don't understand stock trading, Joe.

4 (1h 54m 44s):
And, you know, they got cross outed up there with the lawyer showing him graphs and all these type things. And the one guy on the jury had said, he said the next week he was gonna have to leave and he couldn't stay on the jury any longer. He was gonna go on a trip. So after the prosecution that wrapped her case up, I had to make a decision whether I was going to, whether I was gonna testify or not. My lawyer said, look, said, nobody can believe this guy Tom Davis. And he said, there's no way they can convict you if they can't believe Tom Davis. And we had 23 witnesses prepared to testify and we talked about it and the lawyer said, it's strictly your decision, you make, you know, he said, we're just telling you we don't think that there's any way they can convict you if you don't testify.

4 (1h 55m 31s):
So we ended up putting five witnesses on. We put on three stockbrokers that I did business with, a controller from our company and one of, and a pilot who had flown, who had flown me. And he was on there for one reason. There was an allegation. I was in Texas at a certain time and I wasn't. And we proved I wasn't. Anyway, we arrested our case. And big mistake, I should have testified, we should have put the other people on regardless of whether the jury, you know, was bored or whether they wasn't, or whether the guy was gonna leave or whether he wasn't. And the other thing that was another reason that I got convicted, and I'll go into my grave believing this.

4 (1h 56m 13s):
Phil Mickelson was supposed to come and testify. He told me he would, Phil Mickelson got involved in this case. It was really another screw a deal. And I wrote about it in a book. and I only wrote about it in a book because there was no way to tell the story unless I explained my relationship with him. But he bought stock in his company too. And when the SEC and attempted to interview him, he took the Fifth Amendment. And when I learned he took the Fifth Amendment, I said, why in the hell are you doing? Just tell the truth. I didn't realize it, but he was involved in another investigation, a money laundering investigation that had been going on for a year that had nothing to do with me.

4 (1h 56m 54s):
And he was afraid to testify with the SEC because he was concerned. They would ask him questions about this money lau money laundering case. Now, he had already given interviews to the FBI and he emphatically denied that I'd ever given him any inside information. How do I know that? I got a copy of the interviews. That's another thing, Joe, if someone doesn't interview with the FBI and they tell them something that ends up getting you in trouble or you end up getting indicted for that, you never get to see any of that as part of discovery. But if you tell them something that basically proves a guy's innocent, you get indicted.

4 (1h 57m 35s):
They have to give you a copy of that. It's called Brady Material. Well, I got a copy of the interviews. I know exactly what he told the FBI and the the same thing he told me. He told them, and well, the prosecutors weren't about to call him because they knew what he was gonna say. He told me he would come and testify in the 11th hour. He changes his mind. He says his lawyers told him not to come and testify. Well, these stories that got leaked in the paper early on with him, myself and Carl Icahn, everybody in the world had read these stories about Phil Mickelson, myself, et cetera. Everybody read that Phil Mickelson had give a million bucks back he'd made in a stock trade.

4 (1h 58m 15s):
Well, if you're don't know anything about this case and you see someone who's being investigated for insider trading, two people, you see one guy give a million dollars back, there's only two conclusions you can come to. Either he is innocent, he gave a million bucks back, or he bought his way out one of the two. But regardless, it makes the other guy look guilty as hell. The guy who supposedly gave him inside information. Because why in the hell would a guy give a million dollars back on a stock trade if he didn't do something wrong or he wasn't buying his way out? Right. That's what the average guy thinks. Right? Right. That's what I would think. Right. Well, what they didn't realize was he gave this money back, this money laundering case that he was involved in. He Mr.

4 (1h 58m 55s):
He miraculously gets dropped out of that. The guy that he wire the money to went to federal prison too. Yeah. So all that's in the book. That's the reason I had to write the book. Joe I mean, the only reason he's in my book, he's in two chapters of 28. I couldn't have written a book and told this story without writing my relationship in there with him. The only thing I wrote in there was what I had to write in there. I mean there are a lot of things I mean that I didn't put in there and I, and I'm not gonna put in there, I only put the stuff in there that involved our betting relationship, our friendship, and this issue with the SEC. Nothing more, nothing less, anything else involved Helm or his personal life.

4 (1h 59m 36s):
It's not in the book. And, and I would've never put it in the book. So that's the component, you know, about myself and him and about the Southern District, about my indictment. And the only way I could have told a story is, is, is write a book. The army Catan. When I decided to write this book, I have a fellow who who works with me, advises me on a lot of things. The guy's got a lot of expertise in these areas. His name is Glenn Bunting, and Glenn recommended arm Catan to me. And Arman worked with 60 Minutes for eight years.

4 (2h 0m 16s):
He was a correspondent there. He was with CBS sports, I think for like 12 years. He's a highly, highly well known, extremely respected journalist. He'd done 12 books, he won 12 Emmy awards. He did the book on Tiger Woods. So I wanted Arman involved in this because I had to tell this story about my prosecution, about the Southern District of New York. I had to tell the story about the involvement of the New York Times or Wall Street Journal, but I had to have someone who could write that story who was a former investigative reporter and Armand is, and one of the absolute best in the world, but someone who no one would question their credibility.

4 (2h 0m 58s):
And ar Armand and Glen Bunny and our team did a magnificent job in, in helping me tell that part of the story. You know, the rest of the book, you know, it's pretty much, it's, it's in my words, I mean. I had, you know, I wrote the, the vast majority of the other, but, but I work with a lot of great people in the book. I work, again, arm Catan. I can't say enough good things about Arman, but Arman and explaining this story along with Glenn Bunting, the Southern District. You'd have to understand Glenn Bunning's background too. Here are two people who worked at the highest levels of journalism, but they've also worked with government and prosecutors. I mean they worked and they know this business inside and out.

4 (2h 1m 41s):
And, and, and you, you could ask either one of the, they were, they, frankly, they were in disbelief of what the facts were until they confirmed what the facts were. and it, and Armand, I I I think if I'm quoting Armand correctly, said, I've never seen anything like this.

3 (2h 1m 57s):
It sounds so dirty.

4 (2h 1m 59s):
Yeah, well it was,

3 (2h 2m 1s):
What is that like to giving up 31 months of your life or something so gross?

4 (2h 2m 5s):
Well, well, Joe, 31 months of your life when you're 71 years old, which very, very easily could have been a life sentence. Yeah, it was, it was rough. I mean, I left my wife at the time we'd been married our, this is our 48th year of marriage. But, you know, I left her say goodbye and I walked into a federal prison and, and I was like,

3 (2h 2m 29s):
You didn't know if you were ever getting out.

4 (2h 2m 31s):
I didn't know I was ever getting out because again, my age, you know? Right.

3 (2h 2m 35s):
Also, it's fucking dangerous.

4 (2h 2m 37s):
Yeah, it is dangerous. and I was in with the, this is another misnomer, Joe. You know, and this is one of the biggest misnomers there is, and this is the reason I love you and I love your show because you get a chance here to tell your story. You know, we're not in sound bites and we're not, you know, it's, it's not some BS orchestrated story out there. You know, the, I went to Pensacola Prison and I'd hired a prison consultant and I wanted a, I was looking for someplace I could go to that my wife could communicate, you know, not communicate, could commute to reasonably. And while I was in prison, she was in Kentucky the majority of the time.

4 (2h 3m 18s):
So it wasn't a bad commute for her. But they also had a program there, it's called RD, it's alcohol. If, if you've had issues with alcohol in the past and you qualify for this program, you go through it, you get a year from your Senate. So I thought I could possibly qualify for that. Well, I go there and there had been a story written about this prison like in 2008 and I think it was written by either Barbara Walters or someone like Barbara. And they described this prison as like a country club and it had swimming pools and the people could play golf. And anyway, well, I'm gonna tell you the place that I went to, okay? don don't know what it was like in 2008, but I can tell you what it was like in 2017 and October the 10th when I walked in there, I, I was in a dorm, I was in a building, was built in 1960.

4 (2h 4m 6s):
And this, this building, this is where Naval Airmen used to be housed. I was in a room 18 by 22 with nine other prisoners on bunk beds. They had black mold all over the walls. There was no heat whatsoever in this building. I'm in Pensacola, Florida, I'm not in Miami. I'm in a concrete block building. It's got chillers that run 24 7. So in the winter there, I mean, you can't imagine how cold you would get in there. There's 200 men on this floor. We had a restroom on each side of the entrance.

4 (2h 4m 51s):
But you got, you got 10 men in 18 by 22 room and you got black mold over the walls and you got no heat. The food in this place was just horrible. There were prisoners who came down who'd been in multiple levels of federal prisons. Every one of them said was the worst food they had ever seen in any place. Medical care. There was, it was pitiful. One of the doctors, his nickname was Dr. Death. I mean There was a guy there that they diagnosed with. He with not hemorrhoid, I think, yeah, hemorrhoids. Any, any doubt of colon cancer. I mean there's all I I mean. I could tell you another story. It's funny, but it's not funny. To give you an idea how met how bad the medical care was.

4 (2h 5m 34s):
There was a guy went in and he, he had a place on his face. They told him, come back. They were gonna take it off. It's like in February, guy goes back in. This, this doctor death takes, takes a big thing off the other side of his face, the wrong side. He gets up and the guy, he wishes him Merry Christmas on the way out. Now we're, we're in the middle of February, the guy put a big hole in the complete wrong side of his face. Left the other face that, that, that was one of the doctors that was there. So I got the flu when I first went in there and I'm really sick. I mean really, really sick.

4 (2h 6m 14s):
And I got so sick, I've been in bed like three, four days. Well, I went down immediately to try to get something for the flu. They told me to drink more water and to take aspirin and I could get to aspirin outta the commissary. Two days later I go down, I'm starting to have problems with my lungs. I got chewed out for coming back down again. They gave me nothing. Luckily for me, there were some guys that were inside the prison that gave me some things that could help me. It hadn't been for that. I'm not sure. I don don't know what the outcome of that would've been. I, it, it, it could have been bad. 'cause I, I was bedridden for six, seven days and I saw that on multiple occasions. So the good thing about the place was there were no bars.

4 (2h 6m 55s):
You could, you could walk around it, you know, at certain times with total freedom. There was a track. They had a place you could do waits. The visitation there was great until Covid came along. And so yet you had plenty of opportunities to have visits. You, there weren't bars. You had a track that, that was all good. And, but I can tell you the medical care there, the food and the conditions themselves were horrible. I mean they were horrible. And the people who came down from, from Lowell and Medium Security prisons, they said they were much better in the prisons they came from than they were there. Those conditions were.

4 (2h 7m 36s):
So that's the reason along with the fact, you know, when I, when I got out, I had to do something about this. They're just I mean. It was just, they're just, but that's a story that isn't being told. It's like I saw some guy the other day got sentenced to Pensacola and I saw the story that some lazy journalist just rewrote something they read that somebody else put in there two or three or four years ago. That isn't accurate. And they describe this place as being some kind of country club. You think it's a country club partner. You go down there and check in and you go over there and get you some of those boots that, that you're forced to wear that are seconds or made in China. I got a pair of boots when I got there the second day. I had lost a toenail.

4 (2h 8m 16s):
Luckily for me at the time, there was a doctor there and I went and I went and saw this doctor and he'd gimme some, some shoes that had softer soles. From what I understand, they've eliminated those. Today you have to wear the boots that they give you there. Now they're steel toed boots and, and, and they're not even good ones. Like I say, the majority of 'em don't even fit the people. How do I know that? I worked in the laundry myself. And, and, and, and I was the one over there issuing that stuff. and I went to the, to the head of the place and I said, look, these things are horrible. People are coming back. Their feet are bleeding and everything else. Finally they changed them out and they got, they got some that did fit better. But a lot I mean it just, anyway, it is what it is. But look, pre prison isn't supposed to be, it's supposed to be a punishment to a certain degree and it's supposed to be a detriment.

4 (2h 8m 58s):
And there's no question about that. And you're not supposed to go to some country club, but you should be able to go to some place where you don't have to sleep next to a black mold. And, and if you do have a medical issue, you know, and you truly do have the flu and it's diagnosed by the flu by them, that you get something to treat the flu.

3 (2h 9m 16s):
Just the fact that you gave up 31 months of your life, the fact you had to go to that place and that now you know all the actual details of the case, you know, all the stuff that was withheld. That's gotta be a tough pill to swallow. I mean. That would make me very bitter,

4 (2h 9m 32s):
Joe, when I got outta federal prison, to give you an idea, I was still under home confinement. I filed a federal lawsuit in New York. I sued the former head of the F-B-I-I-I sued Preet Bahar, the former US attorney. I sued David Chavez. I sued Daniel Goldman, who's now the congressman up there. and I sued, or five of 'em. I sued, oh, Zobel, the guy who was a second in command up there. The US Attorney's office. I'm gonna give you an idea. I filed a federal lawsuit up there and the lawsuit speaks for themselves. and I laid out the allegations of all the things that these people did from my perspective.

4 (2h 10m 14s):
Do you know that not one media organization in New York even reported the lawsuit? New York Times, New York posts, the New Yorker. Not one of those news organizations even reported the fact that I had filed a suit against these people we're talking about. That's what bothers me. Forget about, you know, know if it I mean if somebody files, I don't care what kind of what the suit is or what the allegations are, I mean

3 (2h 10m 43s):
It's news.

4 (2h 10m 44s):
It's news.

3 (2h 10m 45s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 10m 45s):
That the, I I filed this suit. It's in federal court for eight months. Their only answer was the statute of limitations ran out after eight months. The judge threw it out. I would've had to file this federal lawsuit while I was in federal prison under federal custody in order for, for me to have filed it within the time of the statute of limitations. But the fact that it didn't, didn't even get reported that I, that I filed a suit and made these allegations. That's what, that's what puts a chill on me. Yeah. How can that happen?

3 (2h 11m 15s):
'cause it's dirty.

4 (2h 11m 16s):
Yep. Yeah.

3 (2h 11m 17s):
They all have relationships. How did those lawsuits, all the lawsuits that you filed, did, how'd they pan out? Well,

4 (2h 11m 25s):
The one I filed against them got through out because the statute and limitations that ran out. Right. And that was really the only suit that I filed. There was the only suit I could file.

3 (2h 11m 37s):
So there's no recourse.

4 (2h 11m 38s):
No, there's no recourse. No. Which

3 (2h 11m 40s):
Is unbelievable.

4 (2h 11m 41s):
Yeah. Well, another thing, Joe, after I was convicted, once you're convicted in the federal system, there's a department, I forget what the name of it is, but they work for the courts. You go meet, and this lady's name was Rebecca Dawson, I won't forget her name. You go up, you spend a day, they interview you, they get all your background and, and they, they go back, check your background out extensively. And then they turn that over to the judge with a recommendation. Their recommendation. Okay. After they had interviewed me, they had thoroughly investigated my background. The recommendation to the judge was to gimme a year and a day and a $10 million fine.

4 (2h 12m 25s):
The judge gave me five years. and I paid in fines and restitution 45 million on top of that, Joe, I was ordered to pay another $9 million for Tom Davis's legal fees. The guy who testified against me, Dean Foods, for, for some unexplainable reason, first part of it. Understand the second part, don don't understand at all. When he originally got his attorney, they were paying his legal fees because he was on a board of directors. That part I understand.

4 (2h 13m 5s):
Okay. But after he decided to become a government witness and he pled guilty to a bunch of things. And one of 'em was, you know, passed along insider information, they continued to pay his legal fees even after that. So his legal fees were like 9 million bucks. So they got a law firm came forward, filed the thing, and the judge ordered me and Tom Davis to reimburse Dean Foods for $9 million. 'cause this guy, he's not gonna give money, money. I paid the entire $9 million. Right. So the Supreme Court comes along later on and they rule that a portion of those fees they weren't entitled to.

4 (2h 13m 47s):
So there they have to refund me the portion of those fees. What do you think happened there? Dean Fools goes bankrupt. I got stiff on them too. I never got a nickel on my money back. So I'm glad you can laugh. Well, Joe, you, you know, you got two choices. This I wanted to tell a story. You, you know, look, I'm not the only guy that's been through something similar to this. A lot of people go through this, they get outta prison. They say, look man, you know, I just want it over with, you know, I don, I don't want to have a reoccurring problem with so and so and so and so who wants to piss off powerful people. Right. Okay.

4 (2h 14m 29s):
I couldn't, I I I'm not cut outta that cloth partner. I, I'm, I I actually did this more for other people than I did for myself. There's so many people out there, Joe, that don't have the resources. They don't have the, the resiliency that I do. They don't have the support that I do. And this is going on today, Patna, and this is gonna continue to go on until the people who make the laws do something about this. Okay. Look, the vast, vast majority of the people in law enforcement are great people. and I, I agree. No, I and I agree with that too. The problem that you've got there and I see this over and over and is, there are some bad ones.

4 (2h 15m 12s):
Like any profession, you have some bad ones. Okay? The problem I see there is when they, they don't, the bad ones, they have the good ones turn a blind eye to it. They don't do anything about it. 'cause they don't want trouble. They, yeah. And I, I give you an example. In my case, the guy that worked with this guy Chavez, he blew the whistle on him. And because of what he was doing prior to me being indicted or anything else, we learned this through our discovery. The guy blew the whistle on him inside the FBI. That guy got transferred to some other party of the United States when they promoted Chave. Yeah, yeah. Dirty. Yeah.

4 (2h 15m 52s):
So, but, but again, I get it I mean, I've had, people are very close to me when I decided to write this book and when I decided to sue those people in New York, and, you know, you know, aren't you worried about this? Aren't you worried? I said, look, I'm not worried about nothing. You know, at the end of the day, I, I can't live my life like that I mean, look, I'm, I'm not doing anything illegal. I'm not doing anything unethical. I'm not, I, you know, but does that mean that someone can't target me for something? Oh, they target me for it. I mean we, the, again, that's the, that's the other problem. I mean when, so this guy Chavez, right?

4 (2h 16m 33s):
Okay. They allow him to retire. He gets paid, he doesn't get prosecuted. Okay. What kind of, what, what can I do with Chavez? I can't do anything with Chavez. I can't sue him. I can't do anything.

3 (2h 16m 45s):
That's crazy.

4 (2h 16m 46s):
That's crazy.

3 (2h 16m 47s):
It really is crazy. Wow. That's crazy. You know, I've worked with Josh Dubin, who used to be a part of the Innocence Project, and now he's, he's doing some things on his own. And it's all about releasing people from jail that have been unrightly unjustly prosecuted. And it's, and you hear about these cases, it's

4 (2h 17m 9s):
All the time partner.

3 (2h 17m 10s):
It's insane. Yeah. It's insane. Well, so dirty.

4 (2h 17m 13s):
Our the publisher that, that that did my book, Simon Schuster, the, the, the editor there, you know, we were talking one day and we were talking about the book and you know, the books, it's done very, very well. And we're proud of that. And, but the book is, everybody would kind of think, well, the book's written about this guy as a professional, handicapper, people wanna know about that. They wanna, nobody's interest in life there. Well, what they've, what what's actually come back? You know, I think people care. I think the popularity of the book is more tied to the hu human interest side of it as anything else. And the guy went on to say, he said, Billy, you know what the perfect story is? I said, no. He said, well, the perfect story is, is when, when, when the story is out there is complete silence.

4 (2h 17m 58s):
He said, in your case, your story involves the FBI involves a New York Times. It involves a Wall Street Journal. It involves Phil Mickelson. There's not one of these people to refute to one word you've said in this book. I hadn't thought about that, you know? Mm. And they haven't. 'cause they, you know, it's all factual. It's all true. And there's, there's no grounds to refute anything I said in the book.

3 (2h 18m 23s):
Is that the most corrupt thing that you've ever I mean your guy's been involved in gambling your whole life? Yeah. Which people think of as like very shady business. Dangerous. You're involved with all sorts of unscrupulous characters. Is that the most dirty thing you've ever been involved with?

4 (2h 18m 41s):
Not even

3 (2h 18m 41s):
Close. No.

4 (2h 18m 42s):
Yeah. Not, it is not even remotely close. Yes, it is. Yeah.

3 (2h 18m 47s):
Wow.

4 (2h 18m 47s):
Yeah, undoubtedly. Undoubtedly.

3 (2h 18m 50s):
Which is crazy because your guys had, you've had your life threatened and I read that you got, you were in a trunk of a car at one point in time. Yeah. Yeah. What was all that about?

4 (2h 19m 2s):
It was the early eighties, Joe. Before I moved to Las Vegas, I had a nightclub in Louisville. It was called Butch Cassidy Zip. It was a country music joint. You had to fight your way in, fight your way out. And anyway, it was the day after the Super Bowl and everybody owed. I paid and Of course most people owed me. They hadn't come by yet, but we, we had some popular band there. and I, we, I forgot what the door charge was, five bucks, 10 bucks, whatever it was. and I had a pocket full of money. It looked like a lot of money, but it was like 4,000 bucks, but it looked like 40. So I, I leave it joint, it's like four o'clock in the morning and I drive home and I'm living in a condo and I pull up in front of the condo.

4 (2h 19m 46s):
I didn't have a garage. and I pull up in front of the condo and I got outta the car all at once. Two guys with a ski mask on. They jumped out. They were heading down below the, the next car. One of 'em had a double barrel shotgun. The other one had a 45. They stuck a shotgun next to my ribs at 45 next to my head. And, and they robbed me. And so, and the guy's got the shotgun, the old shotgun's jumping up and down. I said, man, just calm down here. I said, everything's cool here. I'm trying to cool him down. See, what was so funny, I had just got back from Vegas. Joe and I didn't tell this story in the book, but I get a chance to tell it here.

4 (2h 20m 28s):
and I used to play a lot of poker out there. And at the Golden Nugget, there was a guy out there that sold watches. His name was Sam Angel. And he sold these, these knockoff watches. I mean, they looked like they were authentic as they could, but you could buy a Rolex from him at the time for like 35 bucks. and I had this Rolex watch. It was a knockoff. It wasn't real, but man, it looked real. Well anyway, they took my money, but they didn't touch that Rolex watch. So I mean it clearly it was the inside job. Wow. So they took me to the back of the trunk of the car and they said, they opened the trunk of the car. They told me to get in. and I, I, I first bought as said, no partner, I'm not getting the trunk of this car. They said, look, you'll get this trunk in this car one of two ways.

4 (2h 21m 9s):
Either you're gonna get on your own or you're gonna fall in. So anyway, I got in the trunk of the car, they closed the trunk of the car. I, you, your mind gets to Racing and I figured, well, they pull out, they're going to empty that double barrel shotgun on me. So I'm scrambling around. I got the tire loose and got behind, you know, the spare tire. The car goes by and I breathe a sigh of relief. They're gone all at once. I realized I'm in the trunk of this car. And this wasn't back when they had a deal where you could open the trunk of the car. Right. and it was a Lincoln and I. I, I got panicking there. I got thinking, I'm gonna smother this in the trunk of this car. So I got a tire tool and I tried to get the trunk open and you know, your adrenaline, I wasn't that strong a guy, but the adrenaline, I bent this tire tool in half and I Trunk wasn't going anywhere.

4 (2h 21m 56s):
Well, finally, I got to go through the backseat. There's some holes in the backseat where they got speakers and stuff. and I finally dug through there and punched a hole in the backseat of the car. And I'm screaming, well, I never did wake my wife up, but I woke up the next door neighbor. So he goes over and wakes my wife up. So Susan comes out, she figures, you know, I come on the joint, I'm drunk in the back of the car. Right. But anyway, she comes out, she hears me in the back seat. Finally she opens the trunk, gets me out. And, but no, I, I'm 99% sure I know who did it. And, but anyway, it was a memorable experience.

3 (2h 22m 35s):
Yes. Your whole life has been a series of memorable experiences, sir. True.

4 (2h 22m 39s):
Yeah. Some yeah, you're right. One thing about it, Joe, I got my money's worth the, if if it weren't all in tomorrow, I'd get shortchanged.

3 (2h 22m 50s):
Yeah. I mean you've got a great book out and you've got wild stories and you seem to have your peace of mind. Oh, I do. Which is amazing considering what you've gone through, especially with the trial, what they did to you. It's amazing that you're so relaxed and so calm and so at peace. And that, that speaks to your character.

4 (2h 23m 9s):
Joe, my oldest son, when he was seven years old, was diagnosed with a terminal brain tumor. He was given 30 days to live. And that changed my life. And I was a young guy at the time, gone all the time as I wrote about in the book and completely focused on, you know, making money, you know, and I went through that and it, it changed my life. And, and you know, as a result of that, I got involved with working with intellectually challenged people. I got, I got introduced to an organization in Las Vegas called Opportunity Village. And, and it's strictly an organization that works with intellectually challenged people.

4 (2h 23m 53s):
And that's been one of the most fulfilling things that's ever happened to me. So, you know, it's every negative thing that's ever happened to me in my life, everyone, something positive has came out of it. And that involving my son Scott, who, who through the grace of God's still alive today to fight all odds. But that changed my life. It made a lot better man out of me. Yeah.

3 (2h 24m 21s):
That's awesome. Yeah. Billy, tell everybody the title of the book where they can get it. And is there an audio book available?

4 (2h 24m 26s):
There is. Did you read it? Unfortunately I read it. Joe, you left.

3 (2h 24m 30s):
Oh, perfect.

4 (2h 24m 30s):
You'll have to listen. So Rusty voice, the, I want

3 (2h 24m 32s):
I want you to read it. Well, it's your story. I, I'd like it to be in your voice.

4 (2h 24m 36s):
Well, the publisher trapped me the book's called A Gambler a Secret. Secrets From a Life at Risk. But back to the audio book part of it, the, the publisher trapped me. He said, would you try to do this? He said, most people can't do it Of course. That's all they had to do was tell me that. And so I, I'd had my, a partial knee replacement. And so I go in this studio a couple weeks later, I got ear earphones on like we have now. I got a producer, I got my, got my knee all propped up in the chair with ice on it. And I'm doing the, the audio portion of this book. You've probably done a number of 'em. But you know, the part of the book that I wrote, the part of the book that's in my words, I had no problem with at all.

4 (2h 25m 21s):
The part of the book in there that others wrote. And there were words used that I don't use every day. Sometimes I'd, I'd have to repeat those paragraphs. 2, 3, 4 times. The second day it took me 40 days, 40 hours to do this thing. The publisher, she started laughing. She said, it's so obvious, you know, you would never use certain word and I anyway. but it was a, it was an experience. I'll never forget it. I'm glad I did do it. But some of the schuster's right, there's very few people probably will do it because it's, it's not an easy thing to do.

3 (2h 25m 53s):
No, it's not an easy thing to do. But that sounds like your whole life.

4 (2h 25m 56s):
Yes, sir.

3 (2h 25m 57s):
Yeah. Well, listen, Billy, I, I appreciate your time, appreciate you coming in here and I appreciate you writing your book and I'm glad you did. I I really am. I'm, I'm glad I got a chance to sit down and talk to you.

4 (2h 26m 9s):
Well, thank you. Thank you for having me. I, I really appreciate it. and I have nothing but the utmost respect for you and what you do.

3 (2h 26m 14s):
Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Alright, everybody.