0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check out.

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night, All day.

3 (12s):
I like how you did the cliff notes. That's a slick move.

4 (15s):
Yeah. How about that?

3 (16s):
Yeah, that's very smart because it big print too for dummies like me. This is nice.

4 (23s):
Yeah. How about that? Yeah,

3 (26s):
I'm excited to read this, man. You are a, a great giver of advice, sir. What is it like to carry that burden in a wild world?

4 (33s):
Well, I tell you what, I, I ain't looking for something to do. I don't have to look very far.

3 (41s):
Yeah. It's a wild time of mass confusion and people losing their fucking minds. Very strange. Yeah,

4 (50s):
It really is. And you know, I keep thinking this is about as crazy as it can get. And then I go, I get up and,

3 (58s):
And you see the NYPD dance team.

4 (1m 1s):
I haven't seen that. Okay, here we go. Alright. You gotta show me

3 (1m 6s):
The NYPD in the middle of the craziest migrant crisis that anybody's ever experienced in the middle of places where you, you attack police officers, violently attack police officers, and you release no bail like that right back out on the street. This is the NYPD dance team. So they developed a dance team. You remember when you were a kid and you thought about the fall of the Roman Empire? Yeah. And you were like, did they see it coming?

4 (1m 40s):
You think this is a clue? Is that what you taken?

3 (1m 44s):
I if a bigger clue would be an alien landing on the White House lawn, that's the only thing bigger. This is insanity. The fact that they would a put this on television. First of all, is this the news? What is this that they put this on? Jamie? I think it's the end. Like the New York News. Yeah. Okay. Isn't there a lot of other shit? That's the news that's like really important for people to know about right now.

4 (2m 6s):
You know what? I'll tell you, anything that lifts morale with law enforcement right now,

3 (2m 12s):
That's true.

4 (2m 13s):
I you you gotta give them that. Anything that lifts the morale and bonds 'em. 'cause they got the lowest morale ever. and I, don't blame them. don

3 (2m 21s):
Don't blame 'em either. They, this is not the solution, but they should be. No, they should be massively funded, not defunded. You should train them better. You should, if you've got all these situations with people, you got people that I mean. How much training is involved today in this time of such a, a demand for police officers, right? Like they're trying really hard to get police officers. They should train 'em like they train Navy Seals. They should be like a very difficult process to get through. And we should be very thankful that people are doing the job and they should be rewarded and treated well.

4 (2m 55s):
You know what really drives me crazy about this defunding that went on and Of course, I, I think everybody's decided that was like a either really bad idea or really poorly worded idea either way. But listen, the last thing you want to do is try to get police officers to wear three or four different hats. You don't want 'em showing up saying, okay, I, I want to try to be a social worker and a psychologist and diffuse all of this and all a police officer should show up and enforce the law. If not, people are gonna get shot and killed.

4 (3m 35s):
Police officers should show up and suppress illegal activity, disarm people that are a threat. And after all that's done, then fine. Bring in somebody that is a social worker or whatever. But you don't want a police officer doing all of that stuff. They're there to do one job. And that is suppress illegal behavior. Disarm dangerous people, and they need to do it as quickly and efficiently as they can. They don't wanna do all that as they got one job. Right? And, and they need to do that one job and do it very well. And they don't need people in there saying, well, you need to kind of talk to 'em and you need to this, you need to, that.

4 (4m 16s):
I'm not saying be heavy handed or badge heavy, but they need to do what they're there to do and then let other people come in behind them and try to do all the rest of the stuff. You don't want a cop doing three different jobs. You want 'em do 'em one job and that's suppress illegal behavior. Get it under control and then let somebody else do everything else. Yes.

3 (4m 34s):
And you need money for that

4 (4m 36s):
Of course you

3 (4m 36s):
Do. You can't have defund the police and expect things to get better. No, it's, the whole idea behind that is so insane.

4 (4m 41s):
It was it, and lemme tell you the, the, the people that were yelling defund the police weren't speaking for the people they were protecting in those neighborhoods. They didn't want less police.

3 (4m 54s):
No.

4 (4m 54s):
They didn't want less police. It was their businesses that were getting robbed, their businesses were getting burned down. They didn't want less police. and it is so often that these activists, these and I call it tyranny of the fringe I know, I've written this new book we'll talk about I'm sure in due time, but I talk about tyranny of the fringe. These activists aren't speaking for the people they say they're speaking for, they're speaking for themselves. They like the camera, they like the attention. They're not speaking for the groups they supposedly are speaking for.

3 (5m 27s):
And it works. That's what's crazy. It's effective. and it, in this day and age, when it's attached to something like the idea of being a progressive or being a good person, being on the left, being a kind person, you go along with these things and the next thing you know, you're supporting the wildest of the, the leftists. You're supporting Antifa, you're turning a blind eye to violent thugs. And this is how screwed up everything's gotten just over the last few years, it seems like 10 years ago. This is not possible.

4 (5m 55s):
No. and it it's accelerating and not decelerating it. But I I'm beginning to sense that there's a pushback.

3 (6m 3s):
Oh yeah. Because

4 (6m 4s):
I, I think you, I I think they've made a serious miscalculation. They pushed so hard and so long that they've started to wake up middle America to the point that they're saying, wait a minute. What? Yeah. That, that's not okay. When they start rewriting history, when they start rewriting science, when they start trying to get the government to co-parent with you, with your child, people start saying, okay, whoa, whoa, whoa. Wait a minute. I I didn't mind when you were running around here talking crazy, but now you're starting to get into my businesses. Like, like my grandmother used, say, now you, you've gone from preaching to meddling. Now's not, well,

3 (6m 43s):
You know,

4 (6m 43s):
What's happen happening

3 (6m 44s):
In Canada, right? That's not I mean. Canada has some pretty insane cases that are going on right now about gender transition from really young kids. And there's all this pushback with parents and there's all this 'cause the parents are not being told that their children want to transition. So there's this guy that was talking about these issues of parents' rights in Canada, and he specifically said that parents don't have rights in Canada that they have. I I feel like you said they have obligations. Is that the term he used? But he said under Canadian law, parents don't have rights. Like, what the fuck are you saying? Let me make sure that's exactly what he said before I get sued.

3 (7m 26s):
But when I saw it, I was like, this is such a crazy thing to say. And if that's the way their law is structured, fix that. Like who, who are other people to tell you how to parent your child? And who are these people? Have they been vetted? Are they really good at parenting? Do you they're supposed to be teachers. They're not supposed to be parents

4 (7m 45s):
Here. Here's my problem with that. If it, it, and it, look, if, if you look at this right now and I understand, I I, I don't know if you know, but I've, I I'm starting my, a whole new network called Merit Street Media. No, I didn't know. Yeah. And we launch at the 1st of April. We were gonna launch at the end of February, but we've delayed it a month in order to pick up some massive, more massive distribution. and I I have committed myself to owning the debate lane in America. I'm willing to let all sides come and say what they wanna say, but they gotta be willing to answer hard questions.

4 (8m 31s):
and I, I've had some of these folks, I I've already shot about 30 shows on Dr. Phil Primetime. And we're gonna have four hours of news and a whole lot of other programming. But it's all about I mean, let's be commonsensical. Let's look at the facts, let's look at science. Let's not look at what you want to be the truth. Let's look at what is the facts. Let's look at what is science. And we've got these people that, it's interesting, they choose words like gender affirming care. You know, that's, that's interesting that they call it that. But really what they're talking about is hormonal therapy or sex reassignment surgery on children and I in fairness, the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American is Endocrine Society, or whatever the exact name of that is.

4 (9m 32s):
All of the major medical associations have signed off on this, Joe, they've signed off on it. and I, I have never seen those organizations sign off on anything with less information as to whether or not it does long-term harm of anything in my life. And when I, when I ask about that, when I bring that up, then they immediately label you as transphobic and I. I thought that the deal was first do no harm. And all of the European countries, you know, Sweden, Norway, they, they've all stopped doing it because they say, we cannot say in good conscious that this does no harm.

4 (10m 16s):
Because it does harm. If, if, if you look at the long-term consequences, if someone changes their mind at 10, 11, 12, 13 years old, they can't decide which pajamas they wanna wear at night. And their reason for doing it is it stops this drive for suicide. That there's a suicide epidemic. It doesn't fix that. It doesn't fix all the comorbid issues that come along with feeling like they're in the wrong body. But yet they're pushing this and I it's, we're going to do some shows that are already taped, that are revealing what the real results of this are.

4 (11m 7s):
and I think people are going to be shocked that these medical organizations have signed off on this. I think they've just given in to the pressure.

3 (11m 17s):
Yeah. It's, I just don't understand where the pressure's coming from. Another phrase you're using now is life saving, gender affirming care. They like to smash them all together like that.

4 (11m 27s):
Well, I, I, I don't think that it's gaslighted. I I just don't think that there's evidence to suggest that's true. Is this the guy you're talking about it,

3 (11m 36s):
He said, there's no such thing as parental rights in Canada. Children have rights in Canada and those kinds of policies restrict their rights. Children have, this is a wild thing, man. It's, it's, it's, I've never seen anything like it.

4 (11m 53s):
But America's not far behind that because No, I've, I've talked to a lot of teachers and they're telling me that they have a duty to the children. That if the child is not ready to talk to their parents about this, that it's okay for them to keep a secret from the child. Now let me tell you what my problems with this are and see what you think. First off, if this is either a psychological phenomenon or a medical phenomenon, and the teachers are not trained in either psychology or medicine, they're not any more trained to deal with that than they are to take out the kid's spleen in the homeroom.

4 (12m 36s):
So if that's true, if it's a psychological thing, if it's, if it's gender dysphoria or it's a, it's a medical issue, then you need someone trained in child psychology, psychiatry, or medicine. And the teacher's not trained in any of those three things. Like I say, they're not even more trained in that than they are to take out the child's spleen. So how are they qualified to deal with that? Secondly, it's teaching the child to keep a secret from their parents. It's teaching deception and interfering between the child's relationship with their parent.

4 (13m 17s):
Now, their issue with their, their justification for that is, well, if the child goes home and announces this, or if we tell it to the parent, then the child could get abused. The child could get judged, the child could get kicked to the curb. But they have to admit statistically that that is very rare. And if that's the case, that's what we have Child Department of Child and Family Services for. That's what we have Child protective services for. If that's the case, then you call in for some intervention. If the child is being abused at home for whatever reason, then you get intervention in that way.

4 (14m 3s):
But you don't come between the child and their parent. The parent has the right to know what's going on

3 (14m 8s):
Without a doubt. And also these people that are teaching these kids, do we even know them? You don't know them. I mean you might how how much do you know about 'em before they start teaching your kids? Well, that's the thing. It could be insane. It's not like the threshold for teachers is so high that only the elite of the elite cross it. You see a lot of these weird people teaching classes and you don't necessarily want them giving advice to children about decisions for the rest of their life. And here's an important point that people need to really take into consideration. There's a reason why they have little kids become suicide bombers. 'cause you can talk kids into almost anything. You can talk 'em into believing in Santa Claus. You talk kids into believing in all kinds of ridiculous shit. 'cause they're really young.

3 (14m 49s):
You could easily convince them in one way or another that they're anything that they're, they're they're queer, that they're trans. You could 100% convince some kids of all kinds of things, especially by reinforcing it with love and support and happiness. You can convince people of a lot of things. That's what's uncomfortable for a lot of people, for a lot of gay people. They're uncomfortable with the idea that a lot of these kids are just gonna grow up to become gay. my friend Tim Dylans talked about that a bunch. He says it's homophobic. It's like, it's like they're trying to say, no, you're a girl and really maybe you're just gay. Like, that's okay. It was always a thing. And now all of a sudden it's getting you, you, you're looking at little kids and it might just be gay kids and you're saying maybe you're a girl.

3 (15m 33s):
Maybe you need to go to a gender reassigning surgery center and never have an erection or an orgasm for the rest of your life. Like, what the fuck are we doing?

4 (15m 42s):
Yeah. It it, they're

3 (15m 43s):
So young.

4 (15m 44s):
It, it's not don don't think it's appropriate or safe for children and I think you have. There is a huge body of literature that addresses these issues from end to end. There's not a huge body of literature about the transgender population. And that's the problem. And what literature is out there suggests that you get, and this is what, this is what you see from the European countries. They've done study after study from these suppressive hormones compared to doing psychotherapy.

4 (16m 30s):
And there's not much difference if you do psychotherapy, you can ease the depression. You can ease the suicidal tendencies with psychotherapy without doing the irreversible things. And they say, well, you can reverse those things. No, that's not true. If, if you arrest the development, that can have ramifications long term. Or at least they can't say it doesn't have ramifications long term.

3 (16m 58s):
There's also serious side effects in the hormone blockers.

4 (17m 1s):
Well, Of course. And that's, and and I, if you're doing testosterone blockers for example, that does have long-term consequences. And my point is they can't say it doesn't, they don't have a body of literature that says it doesn't. and I'm, look, what do you think? I'm not

3 (17m 20s):
A position. What do you think is behind it though? Like what, how did this, if this is so contrary to the way most people feel, what do you think is behind it? Especially the push towards children, affirming children. Do you think it's because there's people that are queer or LBGT, whatever and they want other people to be a part of their, their group is that they want more LBGT people. They wanna encourage this behavior. They think it's suppressed and maybe there's more people that are gay or whatever and they want to come out and they just get suppressed by it. So they're trying to make it like more enthusiastic. Like how is, how is this trans thing becoming a major point of debate with children where it never has any history and your life and my life?

3 (18m 9s):
There was never all this talk about trans children like this seems insane that we've forgotten that kids don't know what the fuck is going on yet.

4 (18m 19s):
I think a lot of it is owing to social media platforms and the internet. I, I think this is what I'm talking about when I say the activist. I don't think speak for the community at large. I think they get an agenda that they're pushing and I think they really get wrapped up in this and it gets a lot of oxygen on the internet. It gets a lot of oxygen on social media platform. Now they say there's no social contagion here, but the girls that are claiming to be transgender, that percentage has gone up.

4 (19m 3s):
Some reports say it's gone up 800%, a thousand percent over the last several years. And they say, well that's because they feel more comfortable talking about it Now is that true or is it because you read about it, you see it on social media and you think, well, I can distinguish myself in this way. I think there is a social contagion effect. So people jump on the bandwagon and if it's for a short period of time, but they've done things that can't be reversed. I think that's really tragic.

4 (19m 44s):
And they say there are very few detransition. I don't think that's true. I think there's a lot more detransition that want to reverse this and come back than are being reported.

3 (19m 54s):
And, but there's a lot of deep shame attached to that obviously Of course. It's also something that you don't want people to know about. It's, it's so personal. It's so, it defines you for the rest of your life. Everyone's gonna know that's the guy that used to be a girl and became a guy again. You know? And then there's all the questions and all the bullshit that comes along with that.

4 (20m 11s):
I will say this, I don't think teachers want to get involved in this. I think they're getting, I think some of them push it. I think teachers at large just want to teach. I don't think they want to get pulled into this. Well,

3 (20m 26s):
It's like bad cops, right? Yeah. Like you, you hear about a bad teacher and you think all teachers like that. They're, that's ridiculous. They're not, most of them are just people who, they're their profession, but they joys teaching

4 (20m 36s):
People. They do. And lemme tell you, teachers don't get into teaching for the money. I don't, I don't know a teacher that doesn't get into their own pocket to, to get resources for the classroom, to help with the classroom to put up signs and bring in materials for the classroom. Most of them are very dedicated. They're, they're, they're very good people that teach because they really want to help young people. I I think they're some of the most underpaid, dedicated people in this entire country and they don't want to deal with this stuff.

3 (21m 13s):
Agreed. I feel the same way as I feel about teachers as I do about police officers. I think most of 'em are great.

4 (21m 19s):
I do too. I think they're great.

3 (21m 20s):
Just a small amount of interactions that people have. and I also think about both teachers and police officers, the stress of their job and the experiences that they have. Particularly if you're teaching public school in maybe a sketchy area. I mean those people are risking their health. Often there's violence. It happens all the time to teachers. There's all these cell phone videos of teachers getting beat, beat up.

4 (21m 42s):
I I did a show last week with three teachers from around the country that tried to take a cell phone, you know, tell a student put their cell phone away and got attacked and one of them wound up in the hospital for a week, had to have knee surgery go on workers' comp, wound up having to take bankruptcy, lost her house, all all of that. A student jumped on her and just beat the hell out of her.

3 (22m 8s):
Is this the one that was in the hallway? It was a viral video.

4 (22m 12s):
Well, the one I'm talking about had 67 million views.

3 (22m 16s):
Is this a, a woman that was beat up by a man or a young boy?

4 (22m 20s):
No, I saw that one. This one was beat up by a girl, another girl. And you know, here's the thing. There were all of these students taking videos of it, but nobody helping. Finally somebody pulled the, the girl off the teacher. Mm.

3 (22m 33s):
Well, they're scared. You jump in, they'll attack you. And you know Yeah. People are scared.

4 (22m 38s):
It, it is scary. And you know, people will hear us talk about this and say, oh, you're transphobic. I don't hate anybody. I I just am concerned for the welfare of young people that get led in a particular direction. Well

3 (22m 54s):
That's just the way to silence people from talking about it. Yeah. They'll say you're transphobic. Well, and it's not even, it might not even necessarily be people. I, I have a feeling a lot of the shit that we're dealing with online is foreign agents. And then that what they're doing is setting up thousands and thousands of accounts and targeting specific topics and, and specific things. and I think that's one of 'em. I think it would be a great way to weaken America to make everybody at each other's throats about the dumbest fucking things. And then even put children and children's health and lives at risk with this crazy shit that we're talking about right now. And the more that stuff is going on in our country, the more there's gonna be a decay of our appreciation for America.

3 (23m 39s):
Less patriotism, less paying attention to what we're doing.

4 (23m 45s):
Well, lemme tell you, I've been, you, you've heard all of these stories of people getting swatted. Yes. And for anybody that doesn't know, that's when they call in a phony report. And so a SWAT team shows up at your house that can go south in a hurry. and it has Yeah. It has. People died. Yeah. People have been shot. Yeah. Since New Year's Eve Robin and I have had SWAT incidences six times.

3 (24m 18s):
Jesus Christ.

4 (24m 20s):
And, and I'm no victim. So I fight back and I've got cybersecurity people and we got involved and found out what was going on. And the source of this was a group outta Russia, of course. And these, and these, these bot farms. When people say that, you know, you think these are phony accounts and, and people are hating on the internet and posting all this stuff up. And they're not real accounts.

4 (24m 59s):
These are these bot farms. Some of them, these accounts are 10 or 12 years old and they've got millions, not 10 or 10,000 or 12,000 millions in these bot farms. And so we've been getting into all that with our cybersecurity experts. And when all of a sudden somebody targets somebody and says, oh, they're transphobic or they're racist or whatever. And you get into who all's saying this? These aren't real accounts. Exactly. They're not real people.

3 (25m 30s):
Exactly.

4 (25m 32s):
And so somebody gets, oh, well I I need to apologize for this or apologize for that. You know, I know who I am. I know what I believe. I I'm not transphobic, I'm not racist, I'm not any of those things. And so, but they jump on and start saying all that stuff about you. Well, you know, you just gotta decide. You know who you are. You don't.

3 (25m 54s):
Yeah. It's just people need to be aware of what's going on. If you're engaging in these social media platforms, that is a factor. There are real people out there and you can connect with them. And it's very valuable. You can learn a lot of things. Right. Of course interact with a lot of people. But also there's a lot of fake accounts. A lot. And there was an FBIA, former FBI was an analyst, Jamie. He estimated that it may be as high as 80%. Right. Of all the accounts on Twitter are fake. Yeah. I won't say X. Yeah. Elon's my friend. But X is ridiculous. I'll say it occasionally if I'm being charitable. Yeah. It's fucking Twitter. 'cause what are you making an X? No, you're tweeting. I tweeted this thing out. We've been saying that for too long, bro. You can't just change it.

3 (26m 34s):
But, but that's an insane number. Let's say he is wrong by 30%. It's still half, half the people on I mean if he's accurate. That's crazy. That means there's just been a mass infiltration of foreign agents into all of the discourse about politics and gender and society and women's rights and men's rights and war and Ukraine and every fucking thing that happens in the world. Everything. And you're, you're getting confused as to what the general consensus is of the population. 'cause you go out with most people and you're like, what do you think about that? And they're like, fuck that. You're like, yeah, right. Fuck that. Why is everybody going along with this? What the hell's going on?

4 (27m 13s):
Yeah. It's like the emperor's new close. Yeah. You know, nobody wants to speak up 'cause they, they don't wanna seem like a fool. But, and you know, I did not, I did not want to write another book. I told Robin I'd written nine books and I said, I'm done. My, my last book will be an autobiography when I'm sitting out in the backyard or playing golf every day. But I, I, I wrote this book, we, we've got issues how you can stand strong for America's Soul and Sanity. Because I looked around at what was going on and said, somebody's gotta tell the truth.

4 (27m 57s):
Somebody's gotta call this for what it is. And, and I, I, one of the big things I talk about is what happened to our society because of social media platforms in the internet. And you know, think about it. We had the industrial revolution. Right. And until that happened, we were a very agricultural driven society. Right. Everybody worked on the farm. And so family units were really tight because everybody had to work All day every day. And so they'd come in at noon and have a meal and they'd come back at dinner time and you know, have dinner.

4 (28m 39s):
And everybody worked together on the farm. But then when things got mechanized with the industrial revolution, then people moved to the city and we went from 95% agricultural to now it's about 1%. And that was a huge change in the human race. And there's not been that big a change until 2008 or 2009. And that was the advent of the smartphone. It was like big airplanes flew over the country and dropped smartphones on everybody.

4 (29m 21s):
That's the biggest change in society since the industrial revolution. Think about it. Yeah. We went from walking around with our heads up like this to down people check their phone. An average of 352 times a day. Think about 352 times a day.

3 (29m 43s):
That's insane.

4 (29m 44s):
Now that's adults and children alike. And, and look what happened to kids when, when I turned 16, when I was 15 and 364 days, 23 hours and 59 minutes I was at the DMV waiting to get my driver's license. Right Now kids turn 16, they don't even go get their driver's license. Eh, I'll get it sometime. I don, they start dating later. They start having sex later. They get their driver's license everything later. Why? Because they're watching people live their lives on the internet instead of living their own lives.

4 (30m 26s):
And in oh 8, 0 9 and 10, we saw the biggest spikes in depression, anxiety, suicide, and loneliness since they've been keeping records. That's when the cell phones came out. That's when smart phones came out. That's when the internet blew up because people started watching people live their lives instead of living their own life. And those lives they were watching were fiction. And they compared their life to that life and said, I suck.

3 (30m 59s):
Well, there's a lot of depression amongst women. More self-harm than ever. And more suicidal ideology and suicide. It's like Jonathan hates work. The coddling of the American mind. It shows like if there's a real spike when social media becomes invented. 'cause you're comparing yourself and it just, there's no compare. You can't compare. It's not First of all those people are either surgically altered or they're using filters. There's a lot of 'em. I mean, some of 'em are natural. But for the most part, you're getting these glamorous depictions of a life that's impossible for you to imagine. It's depressing.

4 (31m 32s):
Yeah. And so I've had influencers on the show that said, I post a video where I'm putting on all these clothes and saying I'm going to the NBA All-star game. Yeah. And you know, should I wear this or should I wear that? They said, as soon as that camera stops, I carefully take those clothes off because I don't own them. I have to take them back to the store. I'm not going to the N-B-N-B-A All star game. I'm gonna sit on the couch in my sweats just like everybody else. There's, you've seen it, there's that

3 (32m 2s):
Private jet thing that,

4 (32m 4s):
That private jet thing in Santa Monica. They rent that out by the 15 minutes.

3 (32m 8s):
Yeah. You go into a fake private jet and you take photos like you're, you know, living the jet set lifestyle. What you just on a set somewhere. It's

4 (32m 16s):
In a, it's in a warehouse out there. And they, they, they get in there and put on their beach clothes and then their ski clothes. They ain't going anywhere. They ain't going

3 (32m 24s):
Anywhere.

4 (32m 25s):
But everybody compares themselves to that and go, you know, I'm, I'm such a loser. My life sucks. And so they they compare themselves and go, eh, yeah, I'm no good. And so everybody started getting de these kids started getting depressed. I mean it, it went up. Oh, I

3 (32m 44s):
I I, the thing is like, if you do it really well, if you become a, a fitness influencer or an online influencer and do it really well, you become super successful and you could actually make a really good living doing it. So what we're seeing with a lot of these people are just like really bad open micers. Yeah. Like they want to be Dave Chappelle. Yeah. But it's a long way to the top. Yeah. If you wanna rock and roll, if you wanna be an influencer, yet they're just sort of LARPing. Well

4 (33m 8s):
Listen to this. Since 2010 and 2011, there was a 62% increase for older teens. 189% increase in depression for preteens. 70% increase in suicide for older teens. 151% increase for preteens. I mean. That's, that's terrible.

3 (33m 31s):
Terrible.

4 (33m 32s):
And I think the biggest part of it is because they stop living their lives. They don't have friends, they don't get out and do activities. They're addicted to this two dimensional screen.

3 (33m 45s):
Yeah. And what comes after that thing? Because that thing, no one would've ever believed that a little thing that you keep in your pocket would have you on at six hours a day. Be like, that's not possible. But you look at your screen time, most people, Jimmy, what's your screen time? What's your average

5 (33m 59s):
I mean? It doesn't, I've thought about this. It doesn't include when I'm looking at my laptop and then my other computer

3 (34m 5s):
Doesn't include that.

5 (34m 6s):
It's just my iPhone.

3 (34m 7s):
Right. Oh, right, right. You're saying it'd be more, yeah,

5 (34m 9s):
I'm looking, I switch off my phone to look at different screens. I'm looking at my TV and then four screens at homes. But my screen time is like four hours a day.

3 (34m 16s):
Mine would be way higher if I didn't have to do a podcast. Yeah. That's the one thing about podcasts. It's one of the rare opportunities where you sit and talk to a person and you, you're not interacting with that stupid thing at all.

4 (34m 28s):
Yeah. I wonder if people Of course I, because of what I do from a psychological standpoint, I wonder if people ever stop and think how many people you look at every day and never really see when you go through your life. I mean whether

3 (34m 45s):
It's a lot

4 (34m 45s):
People in the parking lot, people behind the ca that you look at and never really see

3 (34m 54s):
Yeah. How many people you write off.

4 (34m 57s):
Yeah.

3 (34m 58s):
Yeah. Well, you know, as we've become like, especially if you're living in the city, as we've become more populated, people have become almost, they look at people as like a liability. They look at people as like an inconvenience. There's too many of them. As opposed to if you live in a place that doesn't have very many people, you look at people like, that's my neighbor. What's up Bob? There's a guy in my neighborhood, I drive by him and he's always working on his garden. I look forward to waving to this guy. 'cause he waves at every car, every car that drives by the guy puts his hands up waves. I love that dude.

4 (35m 32s):
It's a Texas thing.

3 (35m 33s):
It's a Texas thing. Yeah. They're, it is that my friend Bridget says it's Texas friendly. Yeah, yeah. but it fucking guy does to everybody. Yeah. Everybody that comes by, I watch this guy just waves, waves at everybody. People,

4 (35m 45s):
I have friends coming from California and somebody lets you in traffic. You know, you wave at everybody. What are you doing? Yeah. What guy let me in traffic. I'm thanking him, bro,

3 (35m 52s):
If you live in New York City and you wave at everybody, you see you're gonna get the fuck beaten outta you.

4 (35m 58s):
Someone's

3 (35m 58s):
Gonna beat your

4 (35m 59s):
Ass. Whatcha you trying to start something? Someone's

3 (36m 1s):
Gonna fuck you up. Someone's definitely gonna rob you. Just standing still waving. Yeah,

4 (36m 7s):
Yeah,

3 (36m 7s):
Yeah. What you got on you, bro? It's like, this is, it's, it's a better way to live. It's a better way to live to be friendly to people. Oh,

4 (36m 16s):
For sure.

3 (36m 16s):
And I, I think the anxiety of the internet is, is I often compare it to the anxiety of living in a hyper populated city. Stuck in traffic every day. It's like this anxiety that comes of being stuck in, stuck in traffic. You get cra like friends that don't know what it's like to drive to Orange County. We went to Orange County this past weekend for the UFC and you're driving in Orange County, bro. You ain't going nowhere at 5:00 PM You ain't going nowhere. No. You go nowhere. That's bumper to bumper. Everywhere you look, it's wild. and it takes hours to get anywhere and salute those heroes. Those people live in Orange County and commute to la you people are savages. You just wanted a backyard so bad.

3 (36m 57s):
Yeah.

4 (36m 59s):
And, and when you get home, you got it made. But yeah, it's hell getting there.

3 (37m 3s):
It's hell getting there. But with a lot of them, what they do is they just take the, the ride home as bad. If you're smart, you get in real early and you go to the gym, just get a gym near your job. Yeah.

4 (37m 12s):
To the gym. Yeah. A lot of people

3 (37m 13s):
Do that. That's, that's the best way. Also, it's the best way to start your day. You know, you already got the workout in you, you're awake when you get to work. It's the best way to do it. You can get it in. We used to have a lot of six 30 juujitsu classes. I was always amazed at, but I'm like, yeah, that's what you gotta do. You work at nine, get in there at six 30. You beat the beat traffic. You made it downtown.

4 (37m 33s):
Yeah. You gotta adapt. Yeah. You gotta adapt. And things are changing, but we're not adapting very well in too many areas. We're not adapting very well.

3 (37m 40s):
That's what my fear is. My fear is that technology moves so fast. The only way to adapt is to integrate. That's what my big fear is. My big fear is that with all this Neuralink stuff and I don't even know if it's a fear or if it's a prognostication. When I look at the future, I go, well, if you just take it from here and just follow a normal path of progression, where's it going? It's going to deeper and deeper integration. And it's my fear that this is what we're looking forward to. We're looking forward to some sort of integration, whether it's a headpiece or an actual implant. don don't think we're very far away from that.

4 (38m 19s):
Now this AI is gonna change things in a big way. And these, you know, we're in an election year right now and, you know, creating deep fakes using ai. I, I'm really, really wondering if it's gonna drive the election in, in some ways this year because it's getting so good. I I've seen myself in ads selling products. I mean me talking Yeah. Selling ads, selling products I've never even heard of. It's not me.

3 (38m 53s):
Same as me. Yeah. It's a deep fake. There's hundreds of 'em. I saw a Warren Buffet one that's all over the internet. It's Warren Buffet getting interviewed by a lady on CNN about Bitcoin. And it's everywhere. I it, if I pull up my feed right now, I'll show you and I don don't understand how they can't find this and make it so that some no one can upload it. But this, this video is in, I'll show you because it's so crazy. There's, it's in so much of my feed. All these giveaway, giveaway, giveaway giveaway giveaway. Giveaway. Yeah. Giveaway, giveaway. These are all different versions of the same video. It's, it's like 35% of my feed. All these giveaway, giveaway, giveaway, giveaway. Yeah. There's so many of 'em. It's all the same thing. It's all Warren Buffet telling you about Bitcoin and some things that they're doing.

3 (39m 37s):
And it's all deep fake

4 (39m 39s):
Yeah. That and I, I don't know how to, we, we, we try to send out cease and desist letters and all this stuff. They just, they just change the corporate entity and pop up

3 (39m 48s):
Again. I've done the whole rabbit hole. It goes all the way back to Russia. It's the same kind of thing. Exactly. Or it goes somewhere else. Yeah. You know, there's a bunch of foreign countries that are doing it and they're doing it for, especially with these kind of things. It's like the Nigerian print scam. It's like they, they know how to make money. You just, you don't have to get everybody, if you cast a wide net, you get a few fish, you know? Yeah. A most official, they go, I see that Nick get the fuck outta here. But there's a lot of people that are just dull minded and they've got a little bit of money in their bank account. And next thing you know, they're investing in some fake Bitcoin exchange.

4 (40m 17s):
Yeah. We see it in the love scams all the time. And oh, the

3 (40m 21s):
Love scams are

4 (40m 21s):
Horrible. And they're coming out and it's so sad because they're, you know, these are elderly women that are retired and in sometimes 30, 60 days, they'll take what they spent their entire life accumulating and it's gone. I mean there's no getting it back. It's gone.

3 (40m 37s):
And it's just interaction on email with someone. Is that what it is? Yeah.

4 (40m 40s):
Yeah. Well now it's even worse because they're, they are deep faking. They're Yeah. You know, and it is some Nigerian, but they do a voice anon anonymizer and they're actually talking to her. You could

3 (40m 53s):
Use someone else's voice now too. Yeah. You know, that's, that's what's really crazy that they can use your voice to say, all they have to do is record a phone conversation. I think it's like 30 seconds long. Yeah. And they can take that phone conversation and use your voice to call someone and tell them anything. Hey, listen, I'm in real bad trouble. You've gotta do me a favor, a solid favor right now you need to wire 2000 bucks. I'll pay you back Monday. Trust me. Yeah. This is like a thing for my life. I can't tell you anymore, but can you do this for me? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Man, I got you. I got you. And next thing you know, your friend walks through the door. You go, I was just wiring money to you. Like, what? Yeah. What the fuck are you talking about? I'm right here. Yeah.

4 (41m 29s):
And they, they'll, it'll be somebody like really famous that's obviously very rich. And they'll say, I I I just need $5,000 right now. Why would somebody, right. That is clearly a multimillionaire need $5,000. They don't think,

3 (41m 47s):
Well, they probably are hypnotized by the fact that they're talking to Dr. Phil. Yeah. First of all, they're like, what

4 (41m 52s):
The

3 (41m 52s):
Real doc? You're the doctor. Doctor. Yeah. Oh my God. I've seen you show a thousand times. So they're hypnotized by that. And then you're making sense, like, I'm gonna do you a solid, you gimme this 5,000, I'm gonna give you $50,000 on Monday. Like, holy shit. Okay. Like, we're running a, a thing to see how trustworthy people are. I think people are trustworthy. and I trust you. So I'm gonna do this for you. You send $5,000, you trust me. And then next thing you know that guy's out 5,000 bucks and it wasn't really you. That's easy to to believe.

4 (42m 20s):
Yeah. It's human nature. And we intercepted a manual from Nigeria and it was a training manual for the workroom. and it says, you know how to get these women to trust you. It says contact 'em like at 10 o'clock at night. That's when they're most vulnerable. Wow. It had like 20 or 30 pickup lines. Wow. It it's had all of these poems to use all of this stuff. We've got the manual and we've put it on the air so people see it.

3 (42m 49s):
Imagine that is an industry. How clever are Nigerians though? They figured that out immediately upon the internet. They're like one of the first ones. They were the pioneers of the online scam.

4 (42m 59s):
Yeah. We, we got there. A couple of them have been extradited back to United States now. Really? Where they'll probably get in front of a DA that gives 'em their walking papers. Especially

3 (43m 10s):
If it's in New York. Yeah. You're in, you're out. Unless you're Donald Trump, then you're gonna jail. Yeah. But what, what they're doing is pretty wild that they use the internet that way. I mean, I, I wonder how big that industry is. I bet it's pretty sizable. Oh,

4 (43m 22s):
I, I think it's a billion dollar industry. I I think they're taken down a, a a billion dollars. I think it's big, big money. God, we've had some on the show where they've taken down a million dollars from one woman. Oh. And sometimes it's 10,000, 20,000. Sometimes it's a hundred thousand. But I've, we've had 'em, it's a million dollars.

3 (43m 43s):
I was watching this one really sad one. It was this lady and her dad. And her dad. The mama died and the dad was lonely and the dad had been interacting with some woman and he went all the way to Europe to meet her. He had been sending her money, went all the way to Europe to meet her. And then something came out, but she couldn't meet him. And then it happened again. He went to Europe again and again. She said, and you know, by this time he's in the hole 2 50, 3 50, 300 $50,000 just sending money to this person that doesn't exist.

4 (44m 11s):
Yeah. When I finally prove it to him, I, I, I, it's painful to do it. It's, I I tell him I take no pleasure in telling you this, but the only thing worse than being in a bad relationship for a year is being in one for a year and a day. You need to know it now. Yeah. and it stopped the bleeding. It's, it's unbelievable.

3 (44m 31s):
That's gotta be Dofasting too for the rest of your life. You feel like a fucking loser too.

4 (44m 36s):
Yeah. And you, and you know, you're not ever gonna get it back.

3 (44m 38s):
No, you're never gonna get it back. They got you this humiliation. Just, you feel so foolish.

4 (44m 44s):
Yeah. And when they realize it's a foreigner that's taken from, from somewhere that is halfway around the world, it's, it's terrible. And yeah. and I think part of that is why people are so kind of paranoid about what's happening at the border, you know, with people coming across and they know that it's, they're coming across from so many different countries now. I think there, there's a distrust.

3 (45m 9s):
Well, rightly so. I mean this is something that every pre president has agreed on. If you go back and watch Obama's speeches, you go back and watch Bush's speeches. All the presidents before us, including Clinton, have all talked about having a border, having a strong border, having a protected border. But this is a weird thing they're doing. They're just letting people come in. And the Red Cross is encouraging it. Different groups are encouraging it. They're giving people maps, showing them how to do it. This is crazy. This is a mass migration into America.

4 (45m 43s):
Well, I've, I've been to the border recently and I I, I talked to those guards down there and I, I'm, I'm telling you, I I I, I spent just a day down there and I know, there have been people that have spent a lot more time down there than that. But what, what I heard down there was e even knowing, I, I felt like I knew a lot about it before I went down there, but I was shocked as much as I thought I knew about it. I was shocked when I got down there though.

4 (46m 27s):
First off, the morale among those guards down there is, is the fact that they're hanging in and and doing as well as they are, is they're turning into social workers. You know, they went down there to be guards and they say, what we're doing now, instead of apprehending these people is we're greeting these people and we're processing them and giving them money and resources. And it's interesting. There's, you've been down there, right?

4 (47m 8s):
I

3 (47m 9s):
Have not,

4 (47m 10s):
You know, there are the Texas border guards and they wear brown uniforms and then there are the federal that wear green. And if you get apprehended by a brown uniform, you get arrested, processed, and sent back. If you get apprehended by a green uniform, you get arrested, processed, given a court date in four years, seven years or whatever, and released into the country.

4 (47m 50s):
So they run to the green uniforms and run away from the brown uniforms. Same job, different color uniforms. The green uniforms. They, their court date might be seven years, but if they, if they run into a green uniform, they get processed money and they're into the country. That's wild. And when did

3 (48m 21s):
That start happening?

4 (48m 22s):
You know, it's been going on for a good while now. Abbott Of course has been busing taking some of them and busing them up into different locations. Yeah. Instead of sending them back, which has lately been something you can't do. You, you, you can't send them back. So it's

3 (48m 46s):
So they can't send them back now.

4 (48m 48s):
Well, I don't know what they're doing with 'em since this last thing that they just came up with. And in talking to, in, in, in talking to the union guy who's head of the union for all of the guards, it was interesting. I asked him, what do you need? What do you need down here to do your job? His name is Brandon Judd. And he said, we don't need more money. We don't need more agents, we don't need new legislation.

4 (49m 33s):
We just need you to let us do our job. We just need you to apply the laws that exist now and we'll be fine. Well, you don't need, we don't, we don't. I said, wait a minute, you're telling me you don't need more money or more agents? He said, no, just let us do our job. If you just, we, we had in place a hold in Mexico instead of come over here, just, just use the, the legislation that's on the books and we're fine. We, we don't, we're not, we're not trying to keep people out. We just want to have a, a enough of a flow control that we know who's coming in.

4 (50m 18s):
We're, they're not, these aren't bad guys that are trying to be mean to people down there. They're just, we just need to know who it is.

3 (50m 27s):
What, what do you think the motivation is behind the federal Border Patrol people letting people go? Like, whose decision is this and why, why Forget about whose, we don't know that. Right. Why, why would they want that? What are the benefits of that? Is it cheap labor? Is it people eventually that will vote?

4 (50m 47s):
Well, I think it's virtue signaling. I I I think they've, that's it. They've taken this position that said, Hey, you know, we, we, we want everybody. and I, I get that. Listen, I'm very pro-immigration. I I just think it needs to be legal. Yeah. You, you need to go through the process. Yeah. It's a felony to enter this country illegally. And so, but they're doing that and they're, they're pulling them out of the water. They're pulling them off of the wall and processing them and giving them a, a court date that because of our system is sometimes seven or 10 years.

4 (51m 32s):
And then they're legally in the country, they've got papers. They can say, no, no, I was processed at the border. They're just not coming through the ports of entry. Right. But

3 (51m 39s):
You're, you're aware that this is happening all over the world. Right? Right. Yeah. So what do you think the motivation, there's gotta be some sort of a decision that's been made to allow this to happen or to not stop it from happening or to encourage it to happen? It's not like this is like a spontaneous organic movement. People just decide to move to Europe and people just decide to move to America. It seems like it's something coordinated. Right?

4 (52m 2s):
Well, look at it this way. You look at California, for example, and I, I, you know, I, I said in, we've got issues. I talk about 10 principles for healthy society. And one is you don't reward bad behavior. We've got people that we know are lawbreakers if they're coming in illegally. And so what do we expect 'em to do once they get here? And we're rewarding that behavior. They come in illegally. We reward it by giving them a free pass for seven to 10 years because that's how long it's gonna take for 'em to get a hearing.

4 (52m 45s):
And you know how many will show up for that hearing. And most people would say, none. No, I bet you they all show up for their hearings because it's been seven to 10 years. And they'll show up and say, Hey, I've been waiting seven to 10 years. The system will probably at that point, let them stay. They've been here seven to 10 years. They've had children who are citizens because they were now born in the country. I bet you a high percentage of them show up for those hearings because they will predict getting a good result when they show up for the hearing. And they'll have American born children at that point. So we're subsidizing behavior that we don't want.

4 (53m 27s):
We don't know who it is. And we've got between, they tell me that between 2010 and 2020, they had about 11 to 1500 Chinese come across the border. And in the first 11 months of 2023, they had about 33,000 come across the border.

3 (53m 55s):
Are you worried about that in terms of it being a military threat? Are you thinking these are people that are escaping a totalitarian, oppressive government and they want to be able to make their own money and and live in the land of the free, in the home of the brave?

4 (54m 9s):
Yes, both. I, I think there are, I think there are people that 100% want to get out away from the oppressive government there. For sure. And the number of military aged men, I'm just told by people that are at the border and have witnessed this themselves. The number of military aged men that are showing up with military haircuts clearly in shape, saying, these guys are showing up with six packs and military boots that are coming in is not an insignificant number.

4 (54m 59s):
Now where are they going? We don't know. We don't know where they're going. We're not following them. We're not tracking them. And one thing I want to be real careful about, and I'm, I'm very sincere about this. I I'm not, I I don't wanna say anything that causes people to feel badly or foster any kind of, of hatred toward Asian people in the United States. It's not the people, it's the government.

4 (55m 42s):
That's the problem. I I think that we've got, it's just like if they are sending people over here that are military aged with an agenda, would we be naive to think that if we've let that many in that they couldn't spread out across the country and in some coordinated effort, attack the energy grid here on a given day and create havoc Of course they could,

3 (56m 21s):
Of course they could. Do you remember when that cop went rogue in LA a few years back? I don't remember what caused it, what happened, what the incident situation was. But he just started killing people. He killed a bunch of people. Killed a bunch of cops, and then they wound up getting to him near Big Bear someone up somewhere up there. He had like holed up in a cabin and they wound up shooting him. Do you remember that story?

4 (56m 44s):
I remember exactly.

3 (56m 45s):
And he was, he terrorized that city for as long as he was alive. He terrorized those cops. And a good friend of mine who knows a lot about the military world in the tactical world said, listen man, he would take 10 dudes, 10 well-trained dudes and they'd take over this fucking city. I go, really? He goes, 10 guys. He goes, 10 bad motherfuckers who are well-trained and well armed. Do you remember the, was it North Hollywood, the bank robbery where those crazy fucks showed up with bulletproof vests and machine guns and, and took over a bank and had a shootout with the cops on the street.

3 (57m 26s):
It was insane. It was like a scene outta heat that, that scares the fucking shit outta me. Well,

4 (57m 35s):
It should I mean we should be afraid of that with

3 (57m 37s):
All this defund the police talk. And then that happening at the same time, if you were playing chess and you, you were from another country and we we're so naive. 'cause nothing ever happens here. We, we try to imagine that it only happens in other places, but we're a part of the reason why it's happening in a lot of these other places. And if you were from another country and you decided to slowly amass a force in the United States, that's what you would do. And to, to see this happening, to see that no one is saying that might be a possibility that's not being discussed. I mean. I I hear a few people like you saying it. Brett Weinstein said it. A few other people say it, but most people don't even want to even put it out there. Yeah.

4 (58m 16s):
And I, I don't wanna sound like a conspiracy theorist, but let's be commonsensical here. How do I get on the wifi here? I want to show you something.

3 (58m 25s):
Jamie, can you send it to him? Or Let's pause here. Let's pause. Let's pause for a second, and Jamie will get you connected. Hold on a second. You ever seen a man type so fast with one hand?

4 (58m 36s):
No. And he did it the first time.

3 (58m 38s):
Jamie's a goddamn wizard. He the firsts, the best one-handed Googler on planet Earth, and now he's extra hindered because he's got Carl on his lap. He's, I

4 (58m 45s):
Got him on the

3 (58m 45s):
Desk now. So, Carl, I heard Carl snoring earlier.

4 (58m 49s):
Can I was,

3 (58m 50s):
I was listening. I heard a little,

4 (58m 52s):
Can I send this to, can I send this to Carl? Can you wake Carl up enough for me to send it to him? Sure. He's got quick pause. How can I send this to you?

3 (59m 4s):
You can airdrop it. Jamie, help him out here.

4 (59m 10s):
How do I send this to you?

3 (59m 13s):
We're back.

4 (59m 14s):
Can you play that?

6 (59m 16s):
Yeah. Maybe.

3 (59m 19s):
What is it?

4 (59m 21s):
This is from the border.

3 (59m 23s):
It's a video of the border.

4 (59m 24s):
Yeah. It's me talking to that Brandon Jud at the border.

3 (59m 28s):
Okay, here

4 (59m 29s):
We go. Will it play these children that are coming in with someone that says I'm their mother or aunt, uncle or whatever. We have no way of verifying that.

9 (59m 45s):
We do not, we used to president under, under President Trump, we had rapid DNA testing that's been done away with,

4 (59m 51s):
Are they given money? These people that are released into the country. So it's

9 (59m 55s):
Our taxpayers that's ultimately facilitate the travel. But yes, travel is facilitated and they are given all the necessities that they need.

4 (1h 0m 2s):
But that could be a trafficker. There's

9 (1h 0m 4s):
A very good possibility that they're being trafficked, that they're going into the sex industry, or they're being forced into the sweatshops.

4 (1h 0m 10s):
And, and we know that we're, we knowingly are spending our tax dollars to sell children into sex trafficking. How, under any theory is that okay for us to be spending tax dollars to traffic children?

3 (1h 0m 26s):
Holy shit.

4 (1h 0m 29s):
Now this is the head guy on the border and I, I ask him, when this went on a little more, we went in more depth. You know, you're on camera here, right? You, you just said, we're spending tax dollars to sell children into sex slavery. And he said, yeah. I said, why have you not talked about this? He said, nobody's ever asked me these pointed questions, but I'm grateful that you're asking them Now. That's how out of control. We are down there. We are, we are paying money to take these children and sell 'em into sex slavery. They, they, they come in with these addresses written on their bodies, written on their arm.

4 (1h 1m 12s):
And we call up there and say, do you know so and Soye? Yes, we're waiting for them. Okay. They'll be on a plane or a bus and you need to pick 'em up. And, and I asked him, so some pimp or trafficker or whatever is picking 'em up up there. And he said, we are knowingly sending them up there for that. And he said, it's terrible. But that's what's happening.

3 (1h 1m 42s):
That's insane. That is insane. And there's no way of verifying what their parents, they're going to, or an aunt they're going to. There's no way of verifying it. and

4 (1h 1m 51s):
I, I asked him, he said, no.

3 (1h 1m 53s):
Now what, what justification could possibly exist where they would stop doing the rapid DNA test? What I mean? What, what possible justification would there be to stop that?

4 (1h 2m 5s):
It it, it makes no sense because you, if if they find out, well, this isn't their parent, then okay, what are they gonna do with the child? And so I, I guess don't ask, and then you don't have the responsibility. But they're sending these children up there and he's saying, we are knowingly, we're knowingly sending them into either a sweatshop or the sex industry up there.

3 (1h 2m 33s):
Has anybody tried to do an expose? Has anybody tried to file the children?

4 (1h 2m 38s):
Well, that's why I was asking. Yeah. 'cause I'm like, has somebody gotten on the same bus or plane and see who's picking 'em up or Right. Who's not? And he said, yeah, that's happening. Why aren't you talking about, well, nobody's asked this, and I'm grateful

3 (1h 2m 55s):
That you are. So, so people are getting on the buses and planes with them to try to find out where they're going. No, no. He said they're not. No. Oh, I thought you said, I thought you just said No.

4 (1h 3m 3s):
I, I, I said, why haven't you talked about this? He said, well, nobody's asked this question, but I'm grateful that you are.

3 (1h 3m 9s):
My God, that's so insane.

4 (1h 3m 11s):
And that's just a little clip. We went in more depth about this

3 (1h 3m 14s):
And the numbers are fucking nuts. Yeah. This past year has been like 3 million. Yeah.

4 (1h 3m 19s):
So we've got, we, I I, I've then dug into what's happening with Chinese, buying the Chinese government or Chinese nationals buying farmland. And I, I've, I've got a map if I can find it, of, of where they're buying this land and it's around us military installations. They're buying up land around us military installations. And, and so when you look at the amount of land that they're buying, it's not all that much. I mean it's a lot of land, but given as much land as there is, it's like maybe less than 1%.

4 (1h 4m 8s):
But when you look at it strategically around military installations, it's, it's, it's really concerning. And, and then when you look at what's happening at those militaries, military installations that they have land around like B two stealth bomber training, drone training and all, it's very, very troubling.

3 (1h 4m 42s):
God, it's so strategic where it's all placed.

4 (1h 4m 44s):
Yeah. If I can get ahold of that map and show it to you, it's

3 (1h 4m 48s):
Kind, it's kind of crazy that the United States has been invaded. And when did that start

4 (1h 4m 54s):
With

3 (1h 4m 54s):
The purchase of farm farmland?

4 (1h 4m 55s):
You know, it, it's been going on for

3 (1h 4m 57s):
How long? Like when did it It's, so this is talking about Sun owns 40% of Chinese old land in the us. He owns over 100,000 acres of land in Val Verde County, Texas. All those two companies, Brazos Highland Properties and Harvest Texas. Oh. Through his two companies, his purchases in 2016, 2017, his plans to build a wind farm, as well as his purported ties to Chinese military drew scrutiny in Texas several years after his acquisitions, he ultimately has, was denied permission to proceed with his wind farm plans. So they own the land, but they won't let him proceed with the wind farm. Yeah.

4 (1h 5m 34s):
And they're building a wind farm where it's not very windy, but it does butt up against a strategic military installment.

3 (1h 5m 46s):
What a coincidence. This is the best land that was available. Yeah. Sorry. So yeah. Why, how would that be possible here under logical laws? Because in China you can't do that. They're smart. You can't just buy their land. We

4 (1h 5m 59s):
Absolutely cannot buy farmland there. No,

3 (1h 6m 1s):
No. You can't buy their businesses either. Now

4 (1h 6m 3s):
We, we had a man on talking about this, a farmer, and he said they also own the grain elevator where we sell our grain. The Chinese own that the Chinese government owns that. So, and I said Chinese government, Chinese own that. Now, is it the government? Is it the government agent who owns it? He said It's Chinese owned and controlled if they decide to stop buying his grain. I said, what happens? He said, well,

3 (1h 6m 37s):
Fucked.

4 (1h 6m 37s):
We're outta business.

3 (1h 6m 38s):
Yeah. And then you take that on top of that, the topsoil crisis in this country. Yeah. They've got like 60 more crops left.

4 (1h 6m 48s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 6m 49s):
Unless they do something radical to change it.

4 (1h 6m 50s):
Yeah. And again, I I, you know, I, I wanna be real careful about how I talk about this. 'cause I'm not trying. Look, we have so many Chinese Americans here that are wonderful people that contribute so much. I, I don't wanna say anything to create any animus against these people or Chinese people in general. So many of these people are trying to get away from the Chinese Communist Party. They're just trying to get away from them how they're getting out. don don't know. It's, it's a long way and it's expensive. And you, you don't just wake up in China and say, you know, I think I'll take a vacation.

4 (1h 7m 34s):
That's not how that works. You, you gotta get a visa. Right? You gotta get permission to leave. You got family back there. I don don't know how they're getting out. But I know that we've got an awful lot coming across our southern border. And when military age, Chinese men are showing up at the border, and it's mostly in California where they're showing up, and it's an awful lot. You, you really wild. You, you really have to wonder. You, you really do have to wonder, wonder,

3 (1h 8m 16s):
Did you ever think you'd be in a position where you'd be talking like this? No. Because it sounds conspiratorial, right?

4 (1h 8m 21s):
It does sound conspiratorial. And you know, I I I deal with psychological issues, but these are issues that are on people's mind now. They're saying, I'm anxious about this. Yeah. It bothers me. I feel like my family is under attack here. We don't have the peace of mind that we used to have. We don't have the, even farmers are saying, you know, this is troubling to us. We don't know what to do about this. Yeah. We don't know how to feel about it. We don't know what to say about it. And nobody's talking about this. Well, I'm talking about it.

3 (1h 8m 56s):
Well, I'm glad you are because if not, we'll be talking about when it's too late. And we'll be saying, how the fuck did we not see this coming?

4 (1h 9m 3s):
And, and what I want is, I think if people will start talking about it, people will hear us talking about it and say, you know, these aren't crazy conspiracy guys. These are pretty common sensical guys that are saying we should just ask the questions. We should be asking Why isn't anybody asking the questions? And we're not the only people asking the questions, but we're certainly have big microphones to be asking the questions with.

3 (1h 9m 32s):
It's just a, a, a complete failure of corporate media that they're not asking these questions.

4 (1h 9m 38s):
Yeah. And that is the entire reason that I did this network. Merit Street Media. I, you know, Robin and I was sitting at our kitchen bar at our house in California, and I was flipping back and forth between different news networks. and I was, I was getting so frustrated. I said, why won't somebody just tell the truth? Why, why does everything have to be spin, spin, spin, spin, spin? Why didn't somebody just say, what's happening? And let us do it? The media just won't say it straight.

4 (1h 10m 19s):
And she was sitting there eating and she sitting there eating. She didn't even look up. She just said, well, you are the media. And I thought, yeah, well, she said, you have a bigger audience than those last three combined. So why don't you do something about it? and I Yeah. It, it really kind of hit me hard. and I thought, why don't I do something about it? I mean. Well, why don't I create a platform to just ask the questions and tell the truth without all the spin? Let people make up their own mind. I mean, somebody needs to say, have you thought about, or did you know that last year, 33,000 plus Chinese came across the border illegally?

4 (1h 11m 10s):
Did you know that? and I just want you to know and do with it as you will. And if it causes you to start asking questions and writing your congressman or asking questions of them, then great. But you ought to at least know this is happening. don don't want you to come up five years from now and say, well, nobody ever said anything to me. Well, yeah, they did. I raised my hand and I said it. And maybe it'll cause somebody else to say it and somebody else to say it.

3 (1h 11m 39s):
Has anybody had a conversation with you about this that has an opposing perspective?

4 (1h 11m 44s):
Oh, Of course. I mean

3 (1h 11m 45s):
What? And what is their perspective?

4 (1h 11m 46s):
Their perspective is these aren't illegal immigrants. You, you, you can't, that's, that's not kind to say they're illegal.

3 (1h 11m 56s):
Oh, okay. Well, well, we've always used that term, for lack of a better term.

4 (1h 12m 2s):
Well, okay, so

3 (1h 12m 4s):
Undocumented. What do you wanna call 'em?

4 (1h 12m 5s):
Well, that's unkind. They're no, they're migrants and I understand they want to be here. I don't, I don't begrudge 'em that if, if I was living over there under an oppressive government like that, I would want to, I would wanna be gone. And I, I, I totally get it. I I would, I would want to be out of there. I I, I really do. I get that. But that doesn't change the fact that we have to pretend that we don't know what's going on. We need to be aware of it. And if, if, if it means that we need to say, look, this is concerning.

4 (1h 12m 53s):
We shouldn't be selling farmland around military installations. There's a lot of land to buy. Wonder why they're buying it right up against military installations. Have

3 (1h 13m 6s):
Any politicians talked about this? Has Trump ever talked about this?

4 (1h 13m 10s):
Not that I am aware of.

3 (1h 13m 12s):
Why would that not be something he would bring up?

4 (1h 13m 15s):
Well, you would certainly think he would.

3 (1h 13m 17s):
Yeah. I mean I know he's talked about the border. Yes. But don don't think he's talked about it in depth. Is it possible that he's not aware of it? As far as the way you're aware of it?

4 (1h 13m 28s):
God, you, how could he

3 (1h 13m 30s):
Not be? How could he not be? But then again, the guy's got like five legal cases going on. He's running for president. He's selling sneakers. Yeah. See his sneakers?

4 (1h 13m 40s):
No, I, I saw that he was selling,

3 (1h 13m 42s):
Getting a pair for Tony Hinchcliffe. They're perfect for him. They're gold. They're gold sneakers. He's got like three pairs. One's white one's, one's red. Yeah. Wow. That'd rough. Hey, stop it, Jamie. 400 bucks. That's looks, oh, I heard there was 5,000. That's what I think They're already sold out. They're selling 'em online for five grand. 'cause we were gonna wear 'em for sober October.

4 (1h 14m 5s):
Okay. I

3 (1h 14m 7s):
Look at those things. Look at these monstrosities, look at these things.

4 (1h 14m 12s):
Oh wow. You're gonna get a pair.

3 (1h 14m 14s):
Oh, hell yeah. I can see Dr. Phil rocking the Trump gold.

4 (1h 14m 18s):
How do I air, how do I airdrop something to you? What? Oh, here we go again. How do you come up?

5 (1h 14m 22s):
It'd be like Jamie's MacBook Pro. Got

4 (1h 14m 24s):
It. MP Got it,

3 (1h 14m 25s):
Got it.

4 (1h 14m 25s):
Bam. I just airdropped this to you. It says waiting.

10 (1h 14m 29s):
I'm accepting it.

4 (1h 14m 32s):
Okay.

3 (1h 14m 33s):
What is this?

4 (1h 14m 33s):
This is this map with the military installations. You gotta look at this.

3 (1h 14m 38s):
Is it similar to what he just showed? No, Jamie just showed where the farmland was. Yeah. So

4 (1h 14m 42s):
Let's, yeah, this is different. Look at this. Okay,

3 (1h 14m 44s):
So there's the military, that's

4 (1h 14m 46s):
The farmland. There's the military installations on top of it.

3 (1h 14m 51s):
Oh, wow. That's crazy.

4 (1h 14m 55s):
Look at that now is that, look

3 (1h 14m 58s):
How much farmland

4 (1h 14m 59s):
They have. But is that accidental? Come on that, that's not random.

3 (1h 15m 5s):
It doesn't seem too random, but it also seems amazing how much farmland they have.

4 (1h 15m 9s):
Yeah.

3 (1h 15m 12s):
Was this always legal? Is that the part of the problem with our open society, that any foreign country can come over here? Any foreign investor can come over here and, and buy land?

4 (1h 15m 24s):
Well, I, I, I thought there was restrictions on what foreign entities could buy.

3 (1h 15m 34s):
So number one is Canada. Canada has the most farmland. They own 12.8 million acres here. Netherlands owns 4.9. Italy owns 2.7 uk, 2.5, Germany, 2.3, and China 380,380,000. And this is as of wow. 2023. Summer, June, June of last year. Yeah. It seems pretty strategic where it's owned. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (1h 16m 2s):
Because if, if you put that back up for a second, let me tell you what's at some of these places, that's what it says

10 (1h 16m 9s):
Right at the beginning is

3 (1h 16m 11s):
Land near the Air force base in Grand Forks, North Dakota sending lawmakers into a frenzy in 2021. Yeah. You know, there's another thing that Mike Baker, who's from the CIA had brought up, is that one of the things that they're doing is selling cell phone tower equipment and selling routers and undercutting other companies and making like really good deals so they could set up these cheap routers and cell phone companies. And, you know, a lot of these have been proven, especially with the company, Huawei, right. When they outlawed Huawei from selling phones in this country. Yeah. They, they were proven that some of their technology has third party access. They can, they can do things and siphon information and, and perhaps even, you know, intercept cell phone signals.

4 (1h 16m 57s):
Yeah. Well, at that, where they bought in Utah, it's the largest supersonic, authorized, restricted airspace in the United States. They've got land right next to it. Whitman Air Force base, B two Spirit, stealth bomber base missile and drone operations, MQ nine Reaper Global strike command, three intercontinental ballistic missile wings, all, and they're right next to it. Fort Liberty, they're right next to it. I mean all of that stuff. Who, who, why would you want your biggest global threat next to those?

4 (1h 17m 37s):
You have no idea what they have there.

3 (1h 17m 39s):
I don't play StarCraft, but I imagine if I was watching someone play StarCraft and all this was setting up, I'm like, oh, they're gonna get smoked.

4 (1h 17m 46s):
Yeah. That, that's I mean. It's just,

3 (1h 17m 49s):
It's insane.

4 (1h 17m 50s):
I think you gotta be concerned,

3 (1h 17m 51s):
But it's just weird that it's legal. It really is. It's really weird. And especially given what we know about Chinese corporations, that they are a part of the government. They're, they work hand in hand. They don't, they don't get to be independent.

4 (1h 18m 5s):
Yeah. And

3 (1h 18m 7s):
So still lawmakers from both parties want to limit purchases by Chinese companies, especially those with ties to the Chinese government, which is all of them and individuals to this end. There are several bills in Congress aimed at limiting Chinese ownership separately. The bidet administration is tightening its rules over who can buy land near military bases. We're gonna tighten those rules. What does that mean? How about just make it illegal? Tightening the rules seems know what you just to like take back the land.

4 (1h 18m 32s):
You know what worries me about our young generation is, you know, I don, don Don't know if you saw what I had to say about Harvard and

3 (1h 18m 50s):
All that craziness with the anti-Semitic talk.

4 (1h 18m 53s):
Yeah,

3 (1h 18m 53s):
Yeah. We've talked about that ad nauseum. It was insane. Right.

4 (1h 18m 59s):
You know, I, I I think one of the things I said was all they're doing is creating intellectual rot. They're not teaching these kids anything about critical thinking. I, I don't know what they're teaching at universities now, but if they're not teaching critical thinking, if they're not teaching these kids who were getting ready to turn the world over to, for your kids, Jay's kids, my grandkids, how are they, how are they gonna think their way through this I mean we're selling them this land here and we're getting ready to turn the world over to kids who will be adults that we're not teaching to critically think we're not teaching a meritocracy.

4 (1h 19m 59s):
How the hell does that work?

3 (1h 20m 0s):
We're also not encouraging different opinions. I mean, universities have always been a battleground of intellectual discourse where people get together and they debate things. But if you have an opposing opinion, they'll pull the fire alarm. They'll, they'll chant and scream and stop you from talking. They'll try to block speakers from coming. They'll call in bomb threats. Wild shit. That is the exact opposite of what universities are supposed to be about. What debates are supposed to be about is an opportunity to prove that you're right. And if you're really good at debating, you can make that person look foolish. And you recruit more people to your side of thinking. That's a great way to figure out who's right and who's wrong.

3 (1h 20m 41s):
If you really believe that your opinions are so much more valid than some person who's a conservative Christian, let that person talk. Get on stage with them. Have an open discourse in front of the entire population of the student body. Let them all come have it for free. Let people ask questions that they want. Just do it orderly and politely and let's get to the bottom of it. Let's get to the bottom of it. Let's find out who's wrong and who's got ridiculous ideologies and who's looking at things from a fact-based perspective. Or maybe there's a little bit of something from both sides you agree with, but there's only one way to find out. And you're not getting that from universities anymore. No.

4 (1h 21m 19s):
You've got to air it out. And you know what I've said a about, about Merit street media is I wanna own the debate lane in America because nobody else is doing that. So I mean what an opportunity, right? What a void where I said, okay, look, I I'll let both sides or three sides, whatever it is. Now, I I'm not gonna give a platform to the KKK or, you know, somebody that's just so out there. It's, it's ridiculous. But, you know, I I had a show I I taped recently about transgender and I.

4 (1h 22m 1s):
I had transgender counselors who are in favor of this completely. And, and the guy's really trained I mean he's actually done training about this. and I, I had people that were vehemently opposed to it. But I, I gave both sides an opportunity to dis and they had a really good discussion about it. And, you know, let's, let's air it out. You know, if, if you think you're right, say so and say why I I don't, and, and I, I I say in in the book, we've got issues. I say that all of the major medical organizations signed off on this.

4 (1h 22m 46s):
I say, I don't think history's gonna be very kind to them. I I say my point of view, but I say, listen, I'm not a physician, so take what I say with a grain of salt. But all the medical associations say, Hey, it's a good thing to do. I disagree and I think the empirical science supports me. But they have signed off on it. I even in the book, I put both sides out there. I say, I disagree. They don't, I had Dr. Carol Hovan on, do you know her story?

3 (1h 23m 19s):
No. Oh, yes. No. I've had Carol Hovan. Yeah, Carol. I've had her on the podcast. Yeah.

4 (1h 23m 23s):
Great. Like, isn't she a nice lady?

3 (1h 23m 25s):
She's a great lady. I thought you said Hovan on No Hovan. I thought what a name. Yeah, yeah. No, she was on quite a while ago

4 (1h 23m 32s):
About transgender athletes. Yeah. Yeah. And she said, science is clear. There's no way you can ever equate, you can't take enough testosterone blockers to equate to ever get that back balanced again. She was on my show and Fox and friends, they drummed her out. Yeah. They drummed her outta Harvard for, for doing that. And that is one of the most sweet, compassionate,

3 (1h 23m 60s):
They drummed her out for not for telling the truth. If she's just telling the truth about the reality of human, human

4 (1h 24m 4s):
Bodies. She just reported to

3 (1h 24m 5s):
Science. Yeah. And when you make science illegal, then you've admitted that you're in a cult. You're running a cult. Yeah. 'cause you're, this is, if it's not science based and you're not open to any discussion or debate, two things. One, you have a, you, you have an oppression hierarchy where you value trans women above biological women, you value them. That's the whole reason why sports exist in both a male and female division is because we've agreed that it's unfair. We've agreed. We all know it to be true. It's just unfair. Are there exceptional women and non exceptional men? Yes. Do they get clo? No. But at the, at the bottom of the men and the top of the women, there's not a lot of crossover when it comes to professional athletes.

3 (1h 24m 45s):
No, it's not, it's not fair at all. And do they have some decrease in performance from using estrogen and testosterone blockers and having the testicles removed? Sure. Yeah. Definitely a decrease. But not enough. It's still a male mind. It's still, like Chris Williamson was on here the other day talking about the differences in spatial recognition. Men have like the significant difference in the reaction time. There's like a bunch of different factors that don't go away when you transition someone to being a woman. And then there's tendon strength and there's a bunch of things about the, like the shape of the hips, the ability to generate force, all that stuff is like so much different.

4 (1h 25m 25s):
Well, wingspan

3 (1h 25m 26s):
Wingspan, yeah.

4 (1h 25m 28s):
For swimmers. Yeah. You know, the swimmers, the difference was like 10%. They,

3 (1h 25m 35s):
But it's also, you're not even holding standards. Like it's what they have to be. They don't have to have like x amount of testosterone or X amount of test of, of estrogen. They don't have to have gone through gender transition surgery. A lot of them have their testicles and they're identifying as male. and it's like, how, or as female rather, like how are you allowing that? That seems insane. That seems like cheating. Well, like at its base level you can identify as anything. But when you're getting into sports, that's the whole reason why Title IX was created right. Is to protect women's sports.

4 (1h 26m 8s):
Yeah. And as, as soon as she said that, as soon as she reported the science, and actually she didn't do the science, she did a meta-analysis of like 50 studies and said, overall, here's what it says. I'm just telling you what it says. Do what you want with it. I'm just telling you what it says. Yeah. Transphobic drummed her out. It's wild. and I had Riley Gaines on that show. I, I had a, a Olympic athlete won multiple gold medals in the Olympics. And different people that just said, it's you, you're just kidding yourself if you think it's the same. and I, I I, I felt so bad that she had that result where they, they they drummed her out.

4 (1h 26m 55s):
If we're not teaching critical thinking, if we're not adhering to science, if we're not embracing science, and you know, when you talk about woke, they say they're postmodernist thinkers, which means they reject science, they reject morality, they reject those things that we've always kind of held as the fundamental building block blocks of intellectual discourse. If, if that's the starting place, we say we, we reject science, we, we reject objectivity and everything has to be self-referential.

4 (1h 27m 39s):
If it's important to us at the time, that's our starting place. Well, I'm sorry that that doesn't work.

3 (1h 27m 46s):
Doesn't work.

4 (1h 27m 48s):
It, it just simply doesn't work if they're not teaching critical thinking. And if we're not embracing a meritocracy, what's gonna happen to us?

3 (1h 27m 56s):
Nothing good. And this is all cult thinking. That's all it is. It, it, it's no different than being involved in some wacky sect that, you know, you, you see in a Netflix documentary, it's the same thing. You're not looking at reality. You are only adhering to what these rules are for your particular group. and it doesn't have to make sense and it doesn't make sense.

4 (1h 28m 19s):
Well, internationally, we're 34th in math, 16th in science, and ninth in reading, and we're going down. So if we're not, that's what I mean about meritocracy. If we're not holding these kids to a standard and we're not actually teaching them to get prepared, how are we gonna compete on the international stage?

3 (1h 28m 45s):
Well, you know, the difference between the way our TikTok works and the Chinese version of it works

4 (1h 28m 50s):
Well, I know they don't let 'em on it very much, if at all.

3 (1h 28m 53s):
They don't let 'em on it after 10:00 PM and they highlight science, innovation, martial arts, athletic achievements. They highlight all these very positive things. That's what they, that's what their algorithm, algorithm promotes, promotes all these very positive things. Suppresses all the other stuff, even deletes it and gets rid of it. They don't want any social contagions entering into their children. But on our side, it encourages that. It encourages the wackiest behavior. If you're a guy with a mustache and red nails and you're saying, I'm gonna take all your kids, that guy is gonna get massive traction on TikTok. He's gonna be everywhere. Your kids are all gonna be trans and there's nothing you can do about him.

3 (1h 29m 34s):
Ba the outrage, that's a 30 million view video. And then they, they monetize that. And then other people recognize that that's a successful pattern. Just like those dorks that sit in the fake jet seats. Then they start doing it too. Then they start like, whatever I gotta do to get the kind of attention that this person's getting. Okay, wear nails, wear a wig, wear this. There's, there's probably fake trends, influencers, there's people saying outrageous things specifically just to attract the algorithm. And the way I've described it is, this is a, a, a thing that I stole from Tony Robbins. Tony Robbins was talking about at one point in time, I'm pretty sure it was him talking about how if you have two ships that are going in the same direction parallel to each other and one of 'em just takes a slight turn as time goes on, that one's gonna be so much further off the original path.

3 (1h 30m 21s):
And that's what I'm worried about with us is that all this TikTok stuff and all this social media stuff, it's pushing the norm so much further away. Like you were saying before, that people pushed back because they went so far with all this craziness that people are pushing back. But what Jordan Peterson has talked about, and I think he's brilliant with this. He's like, what they'll do is they'll push until you say enough. And then they stop and then they wait, and then they push a little further and then you wait a while, maybe less than the time before, and then you stop them again. And then this keeps going on for a long time. And you're so much further away from what you agreed upon was acceptable when you initially started.

3 (1h 31m 3s):
They just keep pushing. They just keep pushing and you resist a little bit and then they stop and then they push a little more and it comes in waves. And by the end of it, you're in a position that's unrecognizable. And that's kind of where we are right now.

4 (1h 31m 18s):
What do you think it's gonna take to stop it? I mean, really stop it. Not in waves, but stop it. Stop it.

3 (1h 31m 25s):
Nothing Good. I'm a little terrified because I think that the grip that money has, I'm just gonna say money. Forget about defining it. The, the grip that money has over politics and political decisions that are made in this country is unshakeable. don don't think, don don't think that's ever gonna get shaken. And the best way to ensure that that grip remains tight is to crack down on what people are allowed to and not allowed to talk about on social media. And to encourage as much chaos like we're currently seeing right now that acts as both valid social issues and gigantic distractions. So all those things that are at the forefront, including the immigrant crisis.

3 (1h 32m 7s):
I think the immigrant crisis is a fantastic way to get people to start thinking about this new problem then to be thinking about all the problems that existed before this was ever being discussed. That's my fear. My fear is that we've gone past this representative republic that we're supposed to be and into this thing that's controlled by money. And no one seems to be stopping that no one seems to wanna stop it. And the only person that talks about stopping it is Trump. But even he is, you know, people are skeptical about his connections to money and, and all the, the, the different forces that are running this world. It's a fucking sketchy time. It's a really sketchy time.

4 (1h 32m 46s):
Well, I, I think it is. And if you get, if you boil it down, I, I think the backbone of this country is the family. I I do, I I think the family unit's the backbone of this country.

3 (1h 32m 57s):
Of any country.

4 (1h 32m 58s):
Yeah. and it

3 (1h 32m 58s):
Of civilization.

4 (1h 32m 60s):
And if, if you, if you let that get eroded and even if you see families together now they're all on their phones or they're, instead of actually talking to each other and, and, and I, I tell parents, you should talk to your kids about things that don't matter. And they say, why? and I say, because you gotta open that channel. So it's wide open when it comes time to talk about things that do matter. If you don't ever talk to your kid until it's critical, it's too late, man, you, you gotta start talking to 'em about things that don't matter.

4 (1h 33m 41s):
So when it comes time that they've got a crisis at school or in a relationship or something, they're so used to talking to you that it doesn't feel weird. And so I tell 'em, you know, talk to 'em about things that don't matter. So you, you, you don't make them feel awkward or on the hot seat and they can come to you when they really need to talk about things that do matter. And you've gotta start talking to them about how to think for themselves and, and critical thinking that, as I said, is not happening at the universities and these universities.

4 (1h 34m 29s):
Now let me give you an example. You've heard all this talk about trigger warnings. Yes. That's going on in schools and stuff. Trigger warnings don't work. Trigger warnings are exactly the wrong thing to do if somebody's gonna be stressed out. And that's not my opinion. There are evidence-based therapies that says if there's something in your life that's gonna stress you, you need to learn to cope with it. You need to learn to deal with it. And there are, in, in, in therapy, we have like systematic desensitization, immersion therapies, things where you learn if you're afraid of snakes or you're afraid of airplanes or whatever, you have to learn to cope with that because there are gonna be snakes in the world.

4 (1h 35m 22s):
There are gonna be airplanes in the world. There are gonna be elevators in the world, there're gonna be whatever it is that stresses you out. You have to learn to cope with it. Trigger warnings do exactly the other thing. They say, oh yeah, there's something that bothers you. We'll warn you if it's gonna come up and you can go over here and put your head in the sand. Pretend it doesn't exist. That doesn't work. What's gonna happen when you get out in the world and there's nobody there to say, oh, we're getting ready to talk about something that might upset you. So you get to go in this other room and and sit in the dark for a while. Yeah, You can't do that. And the research says that trigger warnings themselves create anxiety. Not only do they not lower anxiety, they create anxiety themselves.

4 (1h 36m 7s):
The vast majority of universities have used trigger warnings. They used trigger warnings for Romeo and Juliet said involves suicide. Spoiler alert. Really? So they have access to the same research that I do, which is that trigger warnings don't work, but they do it because they're virtue signaling. They want to do it because it makes them look sensitive. Even though it doesn't work. If you wanna make somebody feel better, you tell them the truth.

4 (1h 36m 51s):
You wanna make yourself look better, you tell 'em what they want to hear. That's crazy that they're doing this.

3 (1h 36m 58s):
It's crazy that they're doing it in universities to people who are supposed to be learning how to experience life, at least semi-independently. You're on your own, you're there now you're at a new place. Like to say that this is how the world is gonna be once you get out is insane. So you're not preparing them for the world.

4 (1h 37m 15s):
It's like you're teaching them to go on red and stop on green and then you hand them the keys. Are you kidding me? That's exactly what they're doing.

3 (1h 37m 27s):
It's so strange. It's so strange that there's no pushback to this either.

4 (1h 37m 31s):
And they know this, they, when they shut the schools down for two years, when they shut the schools down for two years, you may remember at the time when they shut it down for, for a couple of weeks, I said, oh yeah, okay. I I I get it. You gotta get your bearings here. When it went past a couple of weeks, you, you, you may remember, I, I came out and said, bad idea here. You don't want to do this because shutting this down is gonna create more problems than the virus will ever create for these kids.

4 (1h 38m 12s):
I said, it's going to, it is gonna create more. And everybody looked at me like I was some kind of heretic. Oh my God. They were saying, oh, he's crazy. What a nut. This conspiracy guy. Absolutely nuts. And lemme tell you who was involved in shutting this down Department of education, CDC. And this is the same bunch that controls the statistics, the research and statistics that I just went over with you that said, young people are at the highest levels of anxiety, depression, suicide, and loneliness since they've been keeping records.

4 (1h 38m 52s):
That didn't start with Covid. It started 10 years before Covid. So they had that information, Joe, they knew these kids, this population is more vulnerable than it's ever been. And they also knew that going to school, interacting with their peers, this was their lifeline. They knew they were the most vulnerable they had ever been. And that going to school was the lifeline that kept them going. And they shut those schools down for two years. And they also knew that that school is where the mandated reporters are.

4 (1h 39m 32s):
That's where the mandated reporters are who report sexual molestation, child abuse, all kinds of, of trauma to these kids. And when they shut it down, those referrals to Child Protective Services and Department of Child and Family Services dropped as much as 50% because those people didn't have their eyes on those kids anymore. What they did was send them home and lock 'em up with their abusers for two years with nobody to protect them. And you know what they said? They said, we did the best we could with what we knew at the time. No, you did not. You knew better than that.

4 (1h 40m 13s):
You knew that was not a risk to those children. You knew that that disease was not life threatening to those healthy children. And you shut it down and sent 'em home and left them there for two years. Some of them locked up with their abusers, the rest of them dealing with anxiety, depression, loneliness, and suicide. You did it because you could and you had no plan to reopen the schools. And that's where government's getting in the way of being healthy. That's where families are getting broken apart. And that pisses me off.

3 (1h 40m 49s):
And it should, why do you think they did it? What do you think the motivation behind keeping schools closed for that long was? Because it wasn't everywhere. It wasn't here, but it was in California. Oh my God. My kids went back to school pretty quick. and it was also one of the reasons why I wanted to be here. They had a completely different attitude about what you couldn't, couldn't do during Covid, but why would they ever want schools to be shut for two years? Like what's the motivation behind it?

4 (1h 41m 18s):
Well, and it wasn't just schools. I mean they wiped out thousands of family businesses. Yeah. That had been in business 40, 50, 60, 70 years. Most of which never came back. Right. They all, they operated on such a small margin. They're wiped out forever.

3 (1h 41m 33s):
Yeah. So many, at one point in time was 70% of Los Angeles restaurants.

4 (1h 41m 38s):
Yeah. And, and then they spent $5.5 trillion counting stimulus checks, unemployment, extended unemployment benefits, 4.4 trillion of which went into savings and checkings account, which means they didn't need it. And then when they did spend it, they, they spent some of it on rent and groceries, the first $1.1 trillion of it. The rest of it went into savings and checking. So they weren't living on it, they were saving it, holding onto it. Right. So it wasn't necessarily needed.

4 (1h 42m 20s):
Again, I, I think at the time, if you're a hammer, you got a new hammer, everything looks like a nail. They had this power. And here's the problem. Our lives are controlled too much by people that weren't elected. These were bureaucrats that got appointed into positions. So who are they accountable to? We didn't elect the head of this agency or the head of that agency. They just got put in that position. And so they shut things down and changed this economy forever. And those kids that went through that, they lost what a year of learning.

4 (1h 43m 0s):
Some of it's been made back, but they were behind to begin with.

3 (1h 43m 6s):
And what are the long-term consequences of that?

4 (1h 43m 8s):
Well, the pediatric epidemiologists suggest that millions of years of life have been lost. And I'll tell you why. Because they don't close the achievement gap educationally, which means they don't do as well in school. So they don't get as good a jobs. And the more blue collar jobs are riskier, you know, 'cause they're working with their hands. They're working in places where they're more inclined to get injured or killed on the job. They have poorer benefits in lesser jobs. So diseases get diagnosed more slowly.

4 (1h 43m 51s):
And so they get treated later in the disease progression, which means that there's a higher mortality rate. And so it shaves

3 (1h 44m 6s):
More years off lives,

4 (1h 44m 7s):
Years off. And if you've got somewhere between 50 and 55 million kids in the public school system, and however many of them were affected by this, do the math, it doesn't take shaving very many years off at the end of the life to, I've seen estimates anywhere from 5.5 million to 10 million years of life's lost by the fact that they won't have the achievement that they might've had otherwise. So, and there are some efforts being made to close the gap, but not enough. And the gap haven't been closed. Right now, 30% of fifth graders and about 30% of eighth graders can't read at the most basic level.

4 (1h 44m 55s):
19% of of high school graduates can't read at the most basic level. But yet they get progressed on because they get paid If they go to the next grade level, we got issues.

3 (1h 45m 10s):
Yeah. It's a great title for a book. Really is. It's very accurate. And I'm glad you're out there. I'm glad you're out there saying these things as a respected voice as a guy that people want to listen to. When you recognize that the actual problems and not what everybody's just sort of parroting,

4 (1h 45m 28s):
Somebody needs to say this I mean we got People are picking the wrong battles.

3 (1h 45m 36s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 45m 36s):
They're picking the wrong battles. They're telling us what we can and can't say. You know, we can't say brown bag lunch anymore. You're not supposed to say that. That's somehow bad news. You can't, I I read the other day, you can't say hip hip hooray anymore.

3 (1h 45m 58s):
Huh?

4 (1h 45m 59s):
That offends people with hip injuries.

3 (1h 46m 2s):
No, come on.

4 (1h 46m 3s):
Did you

3 (1h 46m 4s):
Not? Come on Jamie. Pull that up. Hip hip parade.

4 (1h 46m 8s):
Yeah. I kid you not you, you can't say now you don't, some places don't say felons anymore. They say justice involved person. So you weren't raped. You were engaged with a justice involved person. Not a rapist about a justice involved person.

3 (1h 46m 29s):
My favorite It's no more pedophiles. It's minor attracted persons.

4 (1h 46m 33s):
Yeah. Are

3 (1h 46m 35s):
That's insane.

4 (1h 46m 36s):
That's,

3 (1h 46m 37s):
I've seen university professors teach that to their classes about how the, the most unrepresented or minor attracted persons.

4 (1h 46m 44s):
Now that's what I mean when I say we're picking the wrong battles here.

3 (1h 46m 48s):
But do you think that that when I see stuff like that, I'm like, I go back to the Yuri Bessman off interview, the guy who was the former KGB guy that said that the Soviet Union had infected our schools with Marxism and we're ruining Yeah. I mean it really, if you watch that speech, everything that he said came to be true. It's all what we're dealing with right now. See literally the exact same thing that he was describing in the 1980s.

4 (1h 47m 11s):
Yeah. Well, you know, we've, we've gotten a copy of a document from the sixties from the Soviet Union about how to subvert the American society and Bessman off says, yeah, it's already been done. We're doing it to ourselves.

3 (1h 47m 28s):
Yeah. and it's true.

4 (1h 47m 30s):
And

3 (1h 47m 31s):
How do you think we pull out of this? I don't have a lot of faith. I'm very concerned. I'm very concerned that it's going, it's progressing in a direction. Even if people push back the, the direction is, it's go moving so fast with so much momentum and people are so insane.

4 (1h 47m 49s):
Well, I'm the, I'm the other way. I'm, I'm the incurable optimist. I mean, I I really am. I I think that you have to get people that typically wouldn't speak out, wouldn't speak up because they don't, I I think, you know, I said there in, in this book, there are 10 principles for healthy society. And principle number one is be who you are on purpose. And to me that's a big one. You can't just wake up and go with the flow and be who you are or whatever you are reactively.

4 (1h 48m 39s):
Just whatever comes your way that day, that's what you're gonna do. And who you're gonna be. You can't do that. You gotta say, look, I'm gonna be who I am on purpose. I'm gonna decide what I believe. I'm gonna decide what I value. I'm going to live those things with intention. Now you gotta think about that for a minute because, you know, you always read about famous people and they say his philosophy or her philosophy of life was, and you know, there'll be some profound thing they say. and I always used to think, I don don't really have a philosophy of life.

4 (1h 49m 21s):
You know, I gotta, I guess you don't get that until you're dead. Then somebody assigns it looks at your life and says that your philosophy of life was. But we do have a philosophy of life every single one of us do. And we see it by the way we live at, we have to decide what is my philosophy of life and is it passive? Is it, what do I do? I believe in God. Do I believe in hard work? Like one of my philosophies is I believe in a meritocracy. I I think you reward hard work added value talent.

4 (1h 50m 2s):
I, that's, that's one of my philosophies, don, don't care if you're born on third base dugout or dumpster you, wherever you start, you, you gotta work hard to get where you're going. and I, I think people have to be who they are on purpose. They gotta decide what is it that is important. Am I gonna let the school co-parent my child? Am I gonna let what's going on in Canada come here and say I don't have rights to my child? If that's true, they're coming outta that school. They're not gonna go to a government school, then they're going to, I'll homeschool 'em or I'll do something else. But I do have rights to my child and responsibilities.

4 (1h 50m 44s):
Whatever your philosophy is, write it down, decide what it is and I embrace it. I don't think we can be passive right now because the easiest way to lose power is to let somebody convince you you never had any, that's the easiest way to lose your power, is let somebody convince you you never had any power. Yes you do. You have power. You just have to exercise it. and I don, don't think people should go to their kids' school and run up the stairs like their hair's on fire accusing everybody of doing something. Find out what the policies are. They may be fine, they may be great.

4 (1h 51m 27s):
And if they're not say how, how can I get involved here? How can I help? That's, you know, we got too many people trying to win arguments instead of solve problems. We need to solve problems.

3 (1h 51m 41s):
But the way they're being treated parents and even in this country, the, the distinction, the way they're describing some of these parents, like there was this one thing that was, what was the bill? There was something that came up that was trying to recognize parents disrupting school board functions. 'cause they were upset and labeling them as domestic terrorists. See if you can find that. Because it was so, it was so egregious that I was like, how could you ever say this? You You don't think that people are gonna be upset if you're, you're trying to tell the parents that everything that you believe is invalid and that we're gonna teach your children the way we see the world and we're gonna protect your child by letting your child tell us secrets and not tell you about them.

3 (1h 52m 29s):
And we're gonna change the child's name when the child's at school or we're gonna what whatever the fuck it is. Whatever. It's

4 (1h 52m 36s):
Yeah. That was in that county in Maryland where it started.

3 (1h 52m 39s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 52m 41s):
I'll think of it in a second.

3 (1h 52m 43s):
But what was the push to try to label the parents as terrorists? Yeah, that's,

5 (1h 52m 46s):
There's a

3 (1h 52m 48s):
Attorney general scroll to the top of the never called concerned parents domestic terrorists. So who did,

5 (1h 52m 53s):
That's what it says here. This is where it started.

3 (1h 52m 56s):
Okay. Where's the right

5 (1h 52m 58s):
To be clear?

3 (1h 52m 59s):
Okay. To be clear, the Justice Department did not label parents domestic terrorists. As we said, the use of the phrase originated with a September 29th, 2021 letter sent by National School Board Association of Federation of State Associates that represent locally elected school board officials to the White House seeking federal assistance to stop. What it said was a growing number of threats and acts of acts of violence against public, public school board members and other public school district officials. Mainly over the issue of mask mandates and propaganda purporting to the false inclusion of critical race theory within a classroom instruction. And curricula critical race theory is a study of institutional racism is a better means to understand and address racial inequality's become a hot button political issue among Republicans who oppose it being taught in public schools.

3 (1h 53m 43s):
In that letter, the NSBA said that while it had been working with state and local law enforcement officials, it believed federal involvement was warranted as well. So did they describe them as terrorists? Like how did, how did that term get brought up? Because they're calling hate Crimes Prevention Act. Violent interference with federally protected right statute. The conspiracy against right statute, the and executive order to enforce all applicable federal laws for the protection of students and public school district personnel. And any related measure. It sounds like they're kind of treating them like what they're saying seems like a lot like

4 (1h 54m 20s):
Terrorism. I think there was a filing that described them as domestic terrorists. I thought I saw something about a filing where they were,

5 (1h 54m 31s):
It says Ted Cruz asked someone, do you believe parents object?

3 (1h 54m 33s):
Okay, lets say it says during a Senate judiciary committee hearing, two days later, Senator Ted Cruz said the Department of Justice looked at the issue critical race theory and decided to label the parents objecting to this teaching as domestic terrorists. So that's his district distinction, his description at that hearing, Cruz asked Christian Clark, assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice, do you believe parents objecting at school boards are domestic terrorists? She said, don, don't. Senator Clark said the Department of Justice was committed to ensuring robust civil discourse. And Garland's memo was for focused on threats. Clark said the review directed by Garland would determine how federal law enforcement tools can be used to prosecute crimes.

3 (1h 55m 16s):
Nevertheless, later in the hearing, Cruz again claimed, when it comes to parents at school boards, you're perfectly comfortable with calling a mom at a PTA meeting a domestic terrorist. So did, but this is the thing, did anyone actually use the term domestic terrorist that wasn't Ted Cruz?

5 (1h 55m 32s):
I'm trying to see if it

3 (1h 55m 33s):
Came from this because I thought they did. Letter calling parents domestic terrorism has thrown gasoline on a fire. Allow ads on Fox News. Okay. So what is the letter and what are they quoted as

4 (1h 55m 49s):
National school boards? Sorry for language and letter. That license that likened parents to domestic terrorists.

3 (1h 55m 55s):
It says the letter on the September 29th warning that school boards face physical threats due to opposition to COVID-19 policies and critical race theory. The letter claimed that some unruly parents protests may be equivalent to a form of domestic terrorism. Yet on Friday, the Department of Justice had issued a memorandum. Apparently based on that letter, NSBA issued an apology for the letter on behalf of NSBA. We regret and apologize for the letter, the NSBA said, noting that there was no justification for some of the language, including in the letter parents at school board meetings of Fairfax County, Virginia have warned T-shirts declaring parents are not domestic terrorists.

3 (1h 56m 36s):
So the term was used. So this is more gaslighting,

4 (1h 56m 42s):
Is it in that letter that's up at the, the link right there under the bold heading. Yeah, right there. Is it in that letter?

11 (1h 56m 51s):
Let's see, it's a 4 0 4 link. So it's,

3 (1h 56m 54s):
Oh, it's been arranged from the internet. Convenient.

4 (1h 56m 58s):
Yeah, I'd like to know how they do

3 (1h 56m 59s):
That. There's gotta be a copy of it somewhere. Well, once they changed it, they probably took it down. Is that the actual letter itself? It says Oregon

11 (1h 57m 7s):
School Board.

3 (1h 57m 9s):
Either way, it sounds like someone's said it, which is why people responded, which is why parents didn't wear the T-shirt if nobody had actually called them that. At least I wouldn't imagine they would. Yeah, that sounds like even the way they were describing it. But yeah, some of them could be considered domestic terrorists. I mean people show up armed. People are crazy. Yeah. But the problem is, if you call everybody a domestic terrorism, it's essentially you're crying wolf.

4 (1h 57m 32s):
Yeah. Words are powerful. I mean words are powerful. And when I, when I say I, I think people need to decide to find their voice. This is the kind of thing that keeps people from doing it. If you find your voice and you get labeled a domestic terrorist, then Right. That makes people reluctant to find their voice. And that's where I'm saying labeling people as haters and phobic this and phobic that. It is why people go, oh man, I don't, they're gonna ride into my job and say I'm anti this or a hater, or this is a hate crime or whatever.

4 (1h 58m 20s):
and I, I think a lot of groups do themselves a disservice if anybody that disagrees with them or even ask a question becomes a hater. I think they miss a lot of people that might actually be supportive. They're just asking a question. Hang on, we're just asking a question here. I, I don't, I don't think that transgender athletes can compete with the biological women. That doesn't mean that I have anything against the overall concept. It is just athletically. I think that's a bad idea.

3 (1h 59m 1s):
Obviously most people agree with that. Yeah. And the people that don't, I, I think they're just, they just don't understand what's going on. Yeah. Or they're just ideologically so connected with the idea that trans women or women, they're willing to sacrifice these biological women. And the fairness involved in sports. You know, I didn't even know this was an issue until it's like, what is, like 2015 or 2016, there was a, a female MMA fighter who wasn't really female and they were a biological male and didn't tell the first two people that they fought that they were a biological male. So this person beat the fuck outta these two ladies and claimed that they didn't have to disclose it because it was a medical issue, which is just insane. And that's when I found out that there was this insane movement to allow trans women, if you're gonna say trans women or women, they should be able to do all the things women do, including compete in women's sports.

3 (1h 59m 51s):
And then you're gonna see records broken, staggering records broken by people that just claim that they're women. And we've seen people do that in Canada. Some good dude just decided he was a woman, entered into a woman power lifting contest and smoked everybody. Yeah. You don't even have to do anything. You just have to say you are that. Which is like at its most basic level, the most ridiculous thing.

4 (2h 0m 13s):
Here's something that I've, I found on this Hep Hip hooray. It says the phrase could have anti-Semitic roots rioters in Europe, sometimes shouted hep hep, H-E-P-H-E-P, while on prowl for Jews and mob harassment of Jews in Hamburg, Frankfurt, and other German cities in 1819 became known as the hep hep riots. Hitler Storm Troopers adopted this deer.

3 (2h 0m 46s):
That's a different word.

4 (2h 0m 47s):
That's a stretch.

3 (2h 0m 48s):
That's a stretch. That's a different word

4 (2h 0m 51s):
That we're picking the wrong battles. If somebody's cheering somebody on for a good thing, that Yeah. Seems like a long stretch back to 18,

3 (2h 1m 0s):
19. It's like when they were trying to say that the okay symbol was white power. Like God damnit. Yeah. You can't just co-opt the okay thing. It's been the okay for the, since the beginning of time. Yeah. Fuck are

4 (2h 1m 11s):
You doing? I never understood that.

3 (2h 1m 12s):
It's ridiculous. It's incredible.

4 (2h 1m 14s):
I I never understood that.

3 (2h 1m 15s):
And there's a ton of black people who have done that. It's like the idea that that's a white power symbol. Well,

5 (2h 1m 20s):
People were using it

3 (2h 1m 21s):
Though. Some people were using it as white power. For sure. Were they doing it upside down though? There is a,

5 (2h 1m 25s):
I don't know the way that they were doing it, but people were doing that and

3 (2h 1m 28s):
Math. What numbers don don't know, but don't you think they were doing it kind of ironically? Like some, is it like a four chan thing, like free bleeding where they convinced people of something stupid? Some,

5 (2h 1m 37s):
But there are people they would never have found

3 (2h 1m 39s):
Know that. They don't even know how to get on four chan that we're doing it. Right. But I bet that's where it started. And then they learned how to do it from that. It's probably one of those things, like the flat earth thing. It starts off as a goof and then next thing you know, you got a whole movement behind it. It's probably anything can happen like that on the internet now. Especially when you taking into account the idea of all these Russian bots and trolls and

4 (2h 1m 59s):
Yeah. That's what I mean about things getting oxygen on the internet. Yeah. If you started that outside a barn in Nebraska, you and a couple of mouth breathers whose IQ matched the number of teeth you had.

3 (2h 2m 16s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 2m 17s):
It would've gone like half the county. Now it travels the world. Yeah. In a matter of seconds. Yeah.

3 (2h 2m 26s):
And then they retroactively look for people from the nineties making the okay symbol and claim. There's some giant cult. Yeah. Some white power cult that's always existed.

4 (2h 2m 34s):
Yeah. And that's the problem with Presentism. I really worry about presentism.

3 (2h 2m 39s):
Presentism. Yeah. Meaning what?

4 (2h 2m 41s):
Well, presentism is something I've talked about where people hold People to current standards based on something they may have done 10 years ago, 20 years ago as an idiot teenager. And it's gone so far as to go all the way back 250 years. They go back to George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, and they want to change school names or tear their statues down now because they own slaves 250 years ago.

4 (2h 3m 31s):
Was that a good thing to own slaves? No. That's, that's an ugly thing to do ever. Of course, but at the time it was not looked at the, the morays and folk ways and laws 250 years ago were not the same as they are today. And they judge them because they didn't have the foresight to say, 250 years from now, there will be different standards than they are now. So they judge them now based on what they did 250 years ago using today's yardstick.

4 (2h 4m 13s):
And that's, that's why they're tearing those statues down now. It's called presentism. It's like if you were in a neighborhood and the speed limit was 30 and you drove 30. But then they came along and said, well, we're gonna change this to 20 and we're gonna give you a ticket retroactively, because you drove 30. And you said, well, but it was 30 when I was driving 30 I know. But you should have known we were gonna change it to 20 in the future and driven 20. So here's a ticket, Mr. Rogan. Oh my God. That's presentism. And it's happened a lot. Why do you think they're tearing down those statues? Because of what they did 250 years ago.

4 (2h 4m 55s):
And I'm not saying it was a good thing to do 250 years ago. That was not America's finest hour. That was not okay. But at the time, it, it was the moray and folk way of the time. It was, it was the civil Abraham Lincoln is is the one that changed it all. Right. He led the charge. But yet still people say, well, you know, not okay. And they do it now. They'll find a tweet that somebody put out or an ex that somebody had put out. I guess it was a tweet then an accident that somebody may have written as a 13-year-old teenager.

4 (2h 5m 42s):
You know your brain's not through growing when you're 13, but now you want to, they pick you to host some event or something. They go back and find something you said

3 (2h 5m 52s):
And hold you to it for the rest of

4 (2h 5m 53s):
Your life 20 years ago, 30 years ago. It's

3 (2h 5m 55s):
Kind of crazy when you think of how short a time period 250 years ago was. That's what's really wild. Yeah. Is how much things have changed in a relatively short amount of time when it comes to human history. It's a rapid amount of change. Almost unstoppable amount of change. Most of it's good. Most of it is good. It's go, it's going in a good direction. But a lot of this shit is overcorrection. It's an overcorrection. What they appear, what what, what they think as, you know, oppressed people and historically oppressed people, whether it's gay people, trans people, whatever it is. It's like historically thought of as oppressed people. And there's an overcorrection.

4 (2h 6m 35s):
Well now there are those that everything is seen through the lens of oppressed. Yeah. And oppressor. And they will ignore science. You know, the SAT test was decided to be culturally biased. And so they stopped using it. But the research now says that is actually helpful to minorities, which you can't call minorities now. You have to call them historically minimized.

3 (2h 7m 9s):
Okay.

4 (2h 7m 12s):
But the research says now these kids don't have the teachers, the resources, the training to make the grades. But they've got the brain power. You give them the SAT, that is a way to catapult themselves out of that situation. And they can qualify not on GPA, but SAT and that it actually is a plus for disadvantaged children, disadvantaged populations and schools know that. But they won't reinstitute it because they fear being judged because the general thought is it's a negative.

4 (2h 7m 58s):
And even though they know it's not, they're so focused on virtue signaling, they won't reinstitute it because they're afraid of being called racist.

3 (2h 8m 10s):
Well, isn't it just a sign of bad teaching and bad school systems and disadvantaged kids? It shouldn't be a sign that the the actual test itself is a problem. The test itself is what's been used to show how competent people are forever if people are failing the test. The idea that that's because it's, there's some sort of discrimination involved in the test. Seems so insane. It seems like you're just saying that those people can't compete. That it's a even playing ground. They can't compete. That's not true. You know, that's not true. They're getting bad instruction. They're getting bad school system, bad environments. That's what it is. They're not getting a chance to learn.

4 (2h 8m 48s):
Yeah. And there were so many bad ideas that, you know, I can agree. It's, it's like DEII can a hundred percent agree that you want to try and get as many people involved in as many different things at many different levels as possible. I just disagree with the methodology, the quota system. I'm sorry, I don't want to get on an airplane where they lowered the standards for a pilot

3 (2h 9m 24s):
And they're doing that.

4 (2h 9m 26s):
I don't want to get brain surgery where they lowered the standards. They, they, they fired that professor at, I think it was at NYU, it was in New York because he made the anatomy and physiology or physiology class too hard. So they fired him. 'cause he wouldn't make it easier. I'd rather have somebody that made it through.

3 (2h 9m 52s):
What is the story about that case? Like what are the, what are the details

4 (2h 9m 57s):
They

3 (2h 9m 57s):
See If you can find that, Jamie.

4 (2h 9m 58s):
Oh yeah. It's, that

3 (2h 9m 60s):
Seems insane. So how long has this guy been teaching?

4 (2h 10m 3s):
Oh, forever. He had been teaching forever. I may have it.

3 (2h 10m 9s):
Jamie will find it. He's got it. Right. NYU students were failing organic chemistry. Who was to blame? This is New York Times. I like how they phrase it. Maitlin Jones Jr. A respective professor defended his standards. But students started a petition and the university dismissed him. Wow. Scroll down. Yeah.

4 (2h 10m 26s):
How long had he been there?

3 (2h 10m 30s):
Okay. Last spring campus emerged from pandemic restrictions. 82 of his three 50 students signed a petition against him. Students had the high stakes course, notorious for ending many a dream of medical school was too hard blaming Dr. Jones for their poor test scores. The professor defended his standards. But just before the start of the fall semester, university dean's terminated Dr. Jones contract. The officials also had tried to placate the students by offering to review their grades and allowing them to withdraw from classes retroactively. The chemistry department's chairman, mark e Tuckerman said the unusual offer to withdraw was a one-time exception granted to students by the dean of the college. Mark, a Walters director of undergraduate studies in the chemistry department summed up the situation in an email to Dr. Jones before his firing.

3 (2h 11m 16s):
He said the plan would extend a gentle but firm hand to the students and those who pay the tuition bills. There it is. And a parent referenced to parents, the university's handling of the petition provoked equal and opposite reactions for both chemistry faculty who protested the decisions and Pro Jones students who sent glowing letters of endorsement. Okay. Yeah. That's not good. It's supposed to be hard. It's, it's really hard to be a doctor. Yeah. If you're failing, maybe that's not for you.

4 (2h 11m 47s):
Yeah. and I don't care how flat you make a pancake. It's got two sides. So I'm sure there's two sides to it. But to fire this guy Yeah. I mean, I I, that's supposed to be tough. You know, in college there are always washout courses and you know who they are. So withdraw from the class and take it from somebody else. Yeah. But don't fire this guy.

3 (2h 12m 16s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 12m 16s):
I mean this wasn't his first time.

3 (2h 12m 18s):
Especially if you've got students that give the guy glowing reviews. Yeah. Especially if he's highly respected. You know, when you're gonna have a very difficult course, like I'm assuming organic chemistry is, and you have 300 people in there. There's some people that just aren't cut out for that. That's just gonna be the case with everything in life. That's hard to do. You can't have chess tournaments become easier because some people aren't doing well at chess and say, chess is too hard. Well, it's not too hard for Magnus Carlson. You know, why is it too hard for you? Well, like, maybe it's not for you. Or maybe you're not working hard enough. Or maybe you need to figure something out. Yeah.

4 (2h 12m 54s):
And, and some of the, some schools look

3 (2h 12m 56s):
At this, students were misreading exam questions at an astonishing rate. He wrote in a grievance to the university protesting his termination grades fell even as he reduced the difficulty of his exams. The problem was exacerbated by the pandemic. He said in the last two years, they fell off a cliff. He wrote, we now see single digit scores and even zeros after several years of covid learning loss. As students not only didn't study, they didn't seem to know how to study. Dr. Jones said the ease pandemic stress, Dr. Jones and two other professors taped 52 organic chemistry lectures. Dr. Jones said that he personally paid more than $5,000 for the videos and that they were still used by the university.

3 (2h 13m 37s):
That was not enough. In 2020, some 30 students out of 4 75 filed a petition asking for more help. Dr. Said, Dr. Aro had taught that class with Dr. Jones. They were really struggling. He explained they didn't have a good internet coverage at home. All sorts of things. The professors assuaged the students in an online town hall meeting. Dr. Aurora said many students were having other problems. Dr. Kirschenbaum, another cist chemistry professor at NYU said he discovered cheating during online tests. Okay. So it seems like Covid had a big factor in it. They came back from Covid. And that just makes a lot of sense. You're young for two years, you're not studying, you're not doing jack shit.

3 (2h 14m 17s):
And then you come back and you are really soft.

4 (2h 14m 20s):
Yeah. But when you now get out there to treat a patient, right,

3 (2h 14m 25s):
Right.

4 (2h 14m 26s):
You either know it or you don't. You either

3 (2h 14m 27s):
Know it or you don't. And it's not for everybody. And that's why it's hard to do. I had a buddy of mine who was an ophthalmologist and he told me the lowest point in his life he was on, he was doing his residency. He was on the toilet with a, a tray on him, you know, like a, a food tray. So he is eating well, he was on the toilet and he fell asleep and his buzzer went off 'cause he got called back into work. So this guy was working such fucking insane hours. I mean, he's like, I just didn't know if I could keep going. And that's what residency is like when you talk to doctors, you could tell people when they're going through their residency, it's insane the amount of hours it breaks people. Yeah. You gotta know that this is what you're signing up for.

4 (2h 15m 8s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 15m 9s):
I I, it's a very hard job.

4 (2h 15m 10s):
I I, I did an internship at a 1200 bed psychiatric hospital. and I tell you, if you don't see it there, it, it doesn't exist. and I, I tell you, she

3 (2h 15m 23s):
Read a book on that.

4 (2h 15m 23s):
Yeah. Sometimes it was just marathon and it's, but I mean that's where you, that's where you cut your teeth. Yeah. I mean, that's where you figure it out. You, you see everything.

3 (2h 15m 36s):
If it was easy, everyone would do it. Exactly. With everything in life. Yeah. Everything. That's hard.

4 (2h 15m 42s):
And you know, one of the things I talk about here is develop consequential knowledge. Consequential knowledge is something you learn, something you develop where they can't replace you by noon tomorrow. You gotta have a skillset. and it, and it, it could be setting fence posts. It can be fixing a copier, it can be fixing a computer, it can be a brain surgery,

3 (2h 16m 8s):
Making tables,

4 (2h 16m 9s):
Whatever, whatever. Something that they can't replace you by noon. If you don't have consequential knowledge, you're making a big mistake. You gotta find something you're passionate about and some skillset knowledge set that is specific to you that they can't replace you by noon tomorrow.

3 (2h 16m 27s):
And people out there that are hearing this, that are frustrated, like, oh, that's easier said than done. Yes.

4 (2h 16m 32s):
Damn right. It

3 (2h 16m 32s):
Is. Yes, it is. It is. Yeah. And that, that complaint is the one that infuriates me the most. Like, it's not that easy. You're right. It's not that easy. It's really fucking hard. but it can be done. and it might not be done by you. It might be done by one of your friends. Yeah. It might be done by some people that you know that worked harder than you. And that, that lets you know that that's real and you're supposed to be able to learn from that.

4 (2h 16m 52s):
Yeah. But this, this idea of equality of outcome is insane. It's

3 (2h 16m 58s):
Insane. And

4 (2h 16m 58s):
That's what that so many people on the left, and so many colleagues, professors right now are talking about the goal needs to be a quality of outcome. We don't even have a quality of opportunity that we can work towards. Right. We need to do a better job.

3 (2h 17m 16s):
That should be the number one priority

4 (2h 17m 18s):
That we should try to level playing field on a quality of opportunity. Yes. But we'll never get a quality of outcome I mean.

3 (2h 17m 25s):
'cause you never get a quality of effort.

4 (2h 17m 26s):
No. If somebody wants to sit home in a beanbag eating Cheetos, that's not the same as somebody that sits on a toilet with their Yeah. Eating their lunch, falling asleep.

3 (2h 17m 37s):
Also, we're not all the same. No. There's no way we can get a quality of outcome. No. It's just not gonna happen. There's people that are fucking smarter than you

4 (2h 17m 44s):
That works until you run outta somebody else's money. And when you run outta somebody else's money where you're giving everybody the same thing. And here's the thing, equality of outcome is there are a lot more liberal professors in college than there are conservative professors. A lot more because the liberal professors don't want to get out in the real world and compete. So they go to the university where they don't have to compete the way they do in the real world. But that being said, here's the thing. If, if you are going to an Ivy League school, and so you're paying $200,000 for this elite education and then they teach, the goal is a quality of outcome, then why do I need an elite education?

4 (2h 18m 35s):
If if the goal is a quality of outcome, why am I paying you $200,000 for this elite education? If the goal is quality of outcome, why don't I go get in a bean bagg and eat the Cheetos? Why am I paying you 200 grand? Well,

3 (2h 18m 48s):
That's what scares me about universal basic income. I used to think that was a really good idea until I saw the way people responded when they got checks during the pandemic. And especially people that got unemployment. They did not wanna go back to work. Well, no, they did not wanna go back to work. And the idea, the beautiful part of the idea is that if you gave people enough money for food and shelter, then they could pursue their dreams. Some, some will do that. But how many were gonna lose? If you give people that, how many, if you could take away incentive, how many people are never gonna get their ass in gear? That's a, that's a number two.

4 (2h 19m 24s):
Well, I, I can't quote you the exact numbers, but I, I can tell you the trend. And that is, the longer you're off work, the less likely you are to ever return to work. and I can tell you why the research says that's true. And these are people that have legitimate injuries. For example, I mean truly have a back injury at work or something where they have to have fusions and that sort of thing. You adjust your world, you, your world shrinks. You know, first off, your identity changes. You know, maybe you were a welder or a bus driver or something. That was your, that was a big part of your identity. Now your identity becomes patient.

4 (2h 20m 7s):
Your social world, your friends become fellow patients. You get up every day and you go to rehab, you know, to back rehab and you're doing all these exercises. You're going to the doctor, they become your friends. Your world shrinks down. You adjust. You say, well, we're gonna have to get by with one car. I can't drive anyway. You'll have to drive me. We can sell one car. Keep one car. Your world shrinks down. You adjust to it. You're still watching your football team on the weekends, on tv. You just, you're living on less money and you adapt, you adjust and you get used to that. And now everybody thought, for example, at the end of the lockdown that when that was over, it was gonna look like that movie Grease.

4 (2h 20m 52s):
When school was out and they had the carnival and everybody came running outta the end of the deal and they were running around. They thought that was what was gonna be like when the lockdown was over. but it wasn't, you know, people came out and what they used to take for granted was kind of intimidating. They were like, is it okay to be out here? We, you know, what are we gonna do? They didn't want to go back to work. It gets intimidating. So they get used to it and they get comfortable. I was shocked when people said What happened to the supply chain? Well, you paid people more money not to work than to work. They gave them unemployment plus a bonus and then a bonus on top of the bonus.

4 (2h 21m 38s):
Plus they didn't have the money for the commute. And gas was $7 a gallon in California. You remember that? It was seven bucks a gallon there. And so they all, well I don't have to spend 200 bucks a week on gas and I can sit here. That's what happened to supply chain. Nobody wanted to work. Their world shrunk down. And the problem in America and I, I I talk about it in, in a section in the book is not income inequality, but income equality. If you look at the bottom 20% and compare them to the middle 20% of the distribution, the difference, the bottom 20%, only 5% work full-time.

4 (2h 22m 28s):
The middle 20%, 95% work full-time. And the difference in their incomes is single digit thousands because of all the entitlement programs for the bottom 5%, food stamps, unemployment, rent, subsidies you take, there are a hundred programs. And when you get all of that money that they get for free, the difference between them and these that work 95% of the time is single digit thousands. How crazy is that?

3 (2h 23m 7s):
It's pretty crazy. It definitely doesn't incentivize you to do anything different. You I mean. Why would you wanna bust your ass All day logically doing a job that you hate, traveling, commuting, spending all that money on gas when you can make a real similar amount doing nothing.

4 (2h 23m 23s):
It undermines a meritocracy. And the point is, if you're working in that middle 20% and you work hard, then you might wind up in the next 20% and now all of a sudden there's a bigger difference. And that's why we've got all of these quiet quitters and lazy girl jobs and all that stuff out there that's really taken off on the internet.

3 (2h 23m 45s):
Well it's ironic 'cause it infested tech platforms and then tech platforms like, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. We gotta fire everybody. We gotta fire so many people. They're firing so many people. The tech layoffs are bananas.

4 (2h 23m 58s):
Yeah. and it was just on Friday, paramount laid off like 900 people. What are they gonna do? A nine? It is like nine 50 people, 850 people. Something like that. And

3 (2h 24m 12s):
Then there's the journalists. Yeah. LA Times just laid off a bunch of people. People are dropping like flies. Sports Illustrated closed down.

4 (2h 24m 20s):
Yeah. And now you're gonna have AI doing a lot of those jobs. It's

3 (2h 24m 24s):
A lot of those jobs, especially jobs. You have to write a story on something. Yep. Easy. Write a story on Dr. Phil's new network. Write an essay Easy. It'll come up in seconds. Perfectly worded.

4 (2h 24m 36s):
Yeah. And, and here's a question that I'm gonna have to face is, let's say that chat GBT uploads 10 of my books and a thousand hours of my TV shows. Right. And then says, answers a question, what would Dr. Phil say about this? And from all of that, I'm guessing they get pretty close.

3 (2h 24m 58s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 24m 59s):
Is that copyright infringement or not? They're not quoting me.

3 (2h 25m 3s):
Right.

4 (2h 25m 4s):
But it trained their

3 (2h 25m 9s):
Algorithm, whatever it is. Yeah. Their AI to talk like you. Yeah. Yeah. And then they could have you actually doing you.

4 (2h 25m 16s):
Yeah.

3 (2h 25m 17s):
You know,

4 (2h 25m 18s):
Now that would be using, I don't, well maybe not

3 (2h 25m 22s):
For now, but you know, if it's tracked all the way back to Nigeria or somewhere, we can't do anything about

4 (2h 25m 26s):
It. And if you get somebody like me who's got, I've got like 3,500 episodes. You've got

3 (2h 25m 34s):
What? 2000 something,

4 (2h 25m 35s):
2000 episodes. I mean they could take us, upload us. They don't need us. They

3 (2h 25m 40s):
Don't need you anymore. We're

4 (2h 25m 41s):
Worthless. We're obsolete.

3 (2h 25m 43s):
And they can change your perspective on something if they wanted to. Yeah. Like if they wanted to have like people listening to Dr. Phil, let's have Dr. Phil say something wacky. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (2h 25m 52s):
They used to do that with Soundboards, you know, on the disc jockeys to do funny stuff and stuff. Yeah. It was funny at the time. Yeah. This now could be serious and coming into an election year. Yeah. What if too close they get close to the election and do a deep fake with one of the candidates saying something outrageous like, Hey, some stuff has come out about me that you're gonna hear soon and I'm dropping outta the race so don't waste your vote on me. And they dropped that so late that the real candidate doesn't have a chance to counter it. Yeah. It could actually drive the election outcome.

3 (2h 26m 29s):
Yeah, it really could. It's spooky time sir.

4 (2h 26m 33s):
Yes it is.

3 (2h 26m 34s):
I'm glad you're out there though. I really, really appreciate your perspective and your willingness to say these things. 'cause I know there's a lot of pushback and people get pretty crazy.

4 (2h 26m 43s):
Well they do, but you know, I, I let both sides talk and I'm sure I'll get criticized for that. But this, this new network is,

3 (2h 26m 56s):
Where's it gonna be? How can people access it?

4 (2h 26m 59s):
We'll, we'll announce all that as soon as we get our channel assignments in the next week or so. And I'm gonna be on there. Nancy Grace is on there. Bear Grills is on there. Mike Rowe is on there. Robinson. Oh. Gonna have

3 (2h 27m 14s):
A show on

4 (2h 27m 14s):
Real Network. Network. It's a real network with a lot

3 (2h 27m 16s):
Of That's amazing.

4 (2h 27m 17s):
A lot of original programming. Four hours of news every day.

3 (2h 27m 20s):
I'm really excited you're doing this. We've been calling for something like this to happen for a long time. Yeah, you're the perfect guy for it.

4 (2h 27m 25s):
Yeah. And it's all gonna be just straight up talk. But we, you won't be able to not find Merit Street. We'll be on every cable system. Every, we'll be everywhere. Beautiful. We'll have our own channel and it's 24 7 and and we've got issues is really the blueprint for the network. 'cause it's all gonna follow the same straightforward word, science backed fact-based. So it is not really a, you know, people tell me how they feel. I don't really care how they feel. I don't, I barely care how I feel. What matters is what is, it matters what the facts are.

4 (2h 28m 6s):
That's what matters. It doesn't matter how I feel or they feel it matters. What is Yeah. Doesn't somebody need to get back to the facts?

3 (2h 28m 14s):
Well, you're the man for the job.

4 (2h 28m 15s):
Yeah, I, I hope so.

3 (2h 28m 18s):
I think so.

4 (2h 28m 18s):
I'm gonna give it. Hell and

3 (2h 28m 19s):
I know you are

4 (2h 28m 20s):
And the audio book comes out the same day. So if people don't wanna read it, they can listen to it.

3 (2h 28m 24s):
Beautiful. When is it out?

4 (2h 28m 27s):
February 27th. That's

3 (2h 28m 28s):
It right here. We're coming to you live from February 19th. So next week pick it up folks and prepare yourself for the network. I'm very excited. We'll help you promote it. Alright. Appreciate you brother, always. Thank you very much man. Thank you Joe. Bye. Bye everybody.