0 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast, Check out

1 (4s):
The Joe Rogan Experience

2 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast. by night, All day,

3 (13s):
You were just telling me that Washington state criminalized was Oregon re criminalized drugs.

4 (21s):
Yeah, that's right. This just came out the last week, but Washington state, rather, Oregon State had pursued the defund, the police policy, the decriminalized drugs policy. And there's now this dramatic reversal because guess what? When you let people shoot up heroin on the side of the road, snort, meth, intense downtown Portland, it actually is not good for society. And there's such this dramatic pushback. and I was actually shocked to see it, that Oregon lawmakers, all Democrats of course said, you know what? We've gone too far. Let's bring it back to the center. and I think that's something that's very good.

3 (58s):
It's definitely very good. It is a little shocking that they figured it out. It just doesn't seem like, like when you go and drive through Oakland, for example, it doesn't seem like anybody's trying to put a cork on that. They're just like letting it be insanely chaotic. Like the areas where they have the shanty town set up and people have tents everywhere and these makeshift structures, how, like at what point in time do you stop letting these open air drug dens exist, where people are just cooking meth in front of everybody? That just seems so insane. So it's nice to see that Oregon's like, Hey, let's hit the brakes. Yeah. Is it all drugs now? Did they just put everything in the same category, which is also quite insane.

4 (1m 42s):
Yeah. I mean, no, it's not all drugs, obviously.

3 (1m 44s):
It just says it right here. Yeah. It says the measure makes the possession of small amount of drugs such as heroin or methamphetamine. A misdemeanor punish punishable by to six months in jail. It enables police to confiscate the drugs and crack down on their use on sidewalks and in parks. But what about, what are the other, see, the thing is it, it basically what Oregon did is decriminalize almost everything. The weird thing about drugs is you throw them all into one blanket. You know, you throw, you cover them all with one blanket drugs, because caffeine's a drug, alcohol's a drug. There's a lot of drugs that we're accustomed to, to using, and I'm not necessarily in favor of those being illegal.

3 (2m 24s):
And when you, you add in heroin and methamphetamine to something that we are already accustomed to, like alcohol or caffeine, it's like, what, what do, are we, you know, why these, the same things? Like why don't just individually say, yeah, fentanyl is unbelievably bad for you. Marijuana not so much. Let's like, figure out which ones are okay and which ones are not. Instead of just saying drugs

4 (2m 52s):
A hundred percent I mean you just have to do a really simple calculation. You say, is this drug correlated with extreme social pathology? Does it obliterate the individual? Does it cause social problems, social chaos? And then you could categorize them very simply, yes and no. Okay, you have alcohol, caffeine, marijuana. You can have a functioning society where those are used. Yeah. But you can't have a functioning society where people are foiling, fentanyl. And especially if you look at the, the, the cities, it's wrecked these cities. The big problem though is that the political left in the United States has lost the, a willingness and the capacity to say, no, this is something we've all seen.

4 (3m 37s):
You know, we're raised a generation of kids where like saying no and imposing limits is something that you can't do. It's this idea of liberating ourselves from all limits. But, you know, some limits aren't necessary. Some limits are important. And so I think we're starting to finally see the consequences of obliterating limits. And then now we're starting to say, you know, in a reasonable way, we should start reimposing some guardrails.

3 (4m 3s):
Well, that's one of the things you find out when you're a parent. That seems counterintuitive, but one of the things you find out is that children are happier when you impose limitations on them. Which sounds so crazy. But they are happier and they have less anxiety apparently. Obviously, I'm not a doctor because they're, by having structure to life, it doesn't seem like everything is, like, if they're in charge, like, oh my God, I'm fucking 12 and I'm in charge. I have no idea what's going on. and I could stay out late all night, the world's chaos, which it kind of is in some ways. But by imposing structure on them, it gives them comfort. and I find that's the case with human beings.

3 (4m 44s):
I find that the people that I know, even artists, even comedians and wild folks, the, the, the people that have structure in their life, like have families and children and have like workout routines or things that they enjoy doing on a regular basis that they're very dedicated to. Those are the happiest people. They're the healthiest people. They're the people that seem to feel like there's a purpose to life. The purpose is your loved ones, your family, your community, the people you hang out with, the stuff you like to do, whatever it is, pickleball, whatever it is that gives people like happiness and structure. And this idea that having no, no limitations and complete freedom.

3 (5m 29s):
And you know, you want to, to be just, just able to like fly away on a whim like that doesn't promote happiness. Like, what are you trying to get outta this life? Don't you want it to be as enjoyable as possible? We've all had bad times. They suck. We try to avoid those. We try to have the good times, but that can be applied to a society as well. The way you raise children can be applied to a society. Like you need structure. You need rules. You need love and compassion. You need examples of good behavior. You need all of those things. And when you let people fucking cook meth in the middle of the street, that all goes out the window. Imagine being 12 drive by a fucking drug den every day on your way to school.

3 (6m 11s):
You're like, oh my God, what do I have to look forward to?

4 (6m 15s):
Yeah. I mean, that was my life and my experience and observation. We moved out of Seattle in 2020. My wife at that time, two kids, because of this precise phenomenon, the politics had gone totally sideways. Well,

3 (6m 29s):
Seattle in 2020 was particularly insane. It

4 (6m 32s):
Particularly insane. That was

3 (6m 33s):
The, the, the, the area. What was it called?

4 (6m 36s):
The glory of the Chaz.

3 (6m 37s):
Chaz, that's right. Yeah. The Chaz. Whoa.

4 (6m 40s):
But I remember our oldest son was in kindergarten, first grade at the time. And we would be walking to school a few blocks up and we'd have to be avoiding schizophrenics, avoiding tents, avoiding people shooting up, avoiding people just shitting in the street.

3 (6m 55s):
Walking, walking, just walking. Yeah. It's

4 (6m 57s):
So just walking sketchy. And so, you know, you're trying to, to kind of navigate your kids around. There was a, a, a homeless encampment about a hundred yards away from the school with probably 40 or 50 guys cooking drugs, stealing property, causing trouble. And then you talk to the administrators at the time say, Hey, this is a problem. I don't accept this. don don't like this. Yeah. And they say, oh, well, you know, we have to be compassionate to our houseless neighbors. It's like, no, we don't. This is a danger to kids. and it got so bad that they were teaching the kids what to do when they found hypodermic needles in the playground.

3 (7m 30s):
Oh my God,

4 (7m 31s):
This is a problem. I don't want this as a parent, I want you to prevent them having to, to pick up hypodermic needles and, you know, and, and it's like a, a group of people that are So, it's like compassion also has to be limited. Yeah. You have to have compassion within reasonable limits. And

3 (7m 49s):
For us, you're dealing with people that'll just burn it all down. If you just allow, you say, arson is no longer punishable, they'll burn all the houses down. Yeah. These are insane people. They don't have anything. Why wouldn't they just burn it all down just for funds? Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's so hard to understand how it got this far. You know, I and I love when they use terms like the houseless, like you already have a word for it. Yeah. Like stop trying to dress it up with a new word. You already have a word for it. The word like, this one's been driving me fucking crazy lately. Minor attracted persons. Yes. I saw two politicians in two different speeches talk about protecting minor attracted persons.

3 (8m 32s):
You're talking about pedophiles. That's

4 (8m 34s):
What we're talking about.

3 (8m 35s):
It must be that these people have no children. It must be, I don't know if they do, they're monsters. This idea that you are going to minimize the harm caused by evil criminals who steal children's lives, ruin their lives forever. And you're just gonna call them a minor attracted person and try to say that it's an identity to what, for what reason to what end. Like why would you want to do that?

4 (9m 6s):
I I mean the, the end is, it's not polite to say, but it's quite clear. You look at even something that has been propagandized at length. Drag queen story hour. Yeah. You say, wait a minute, let's just break it down to the basic facts. These are adult men dressing up in women's clothing. Yeah. Dancing and performing for other people's children. That's like, should be a red flag for people. But you, they've couched it in this language. Like you're talking about euphemisms, very, very soft sounding words. Tolerance, inclusion. But you're concealing from people the fact that it's like, ah, actually no, this is kind of uncomfortable.

4 (9m 47s):
And like, I wouldn't wanna do that. Well, not only that, do you want to talk about sex with other people's young children? No,

3 (9m 53s):
No. Not a million years. You

4 (9m 55s):
Should know it. That's like the thing you'd wanna avoid. Like most in life. There's

3 (9m 58s):
No reason to talk to them about that. Exactly. There's no reason. Exactly. They're not interested in it. They're little kids

4 (10m 4s):
Also. They're not interested. It's the adults that are interested. So the question is, why, why are adults so interested in this? What is the ideological goal? The personal goal, and it influence and I find it.

3 (10m 15s):
They're, they're influencing children because like all groups, as much as people hate to hear this, everyone wants you to join their group. It is a natural human instinct. The idea that that would not apply to gender identity, that that would not apply to sexual orientation is crazy. It imp applies to phones and it applies to, like, people have Android phones. They're like, dude, switch over. Look, you can use the Spen dude, you can switch over. Look at my AI features. Dude, you don't need iMessage. You know, there, it's with everything. And if You don't think that happens with sexuality or with gender, you're outta your mind. It's a natural human characteristic. Why would it be, why would it be absent there when it's present?

3 (10m 58s):
And literally everything. People use Windows, computers, shit on. People use Apple computers. Yeah. You should just try Windows, man. There's so much more variety. They want you to join. Yeah. They want you to bo they want you to be a part of their church. They want you to be move into their neighborhood. I'm guilty of it too. I got a bunch of people to move to Austin for sure. It's like, it's a thing that people do. Yeah. It's a thing that people do, especially if they found something that's awesome. But this idea that a guy with fucking heavy makeup on dressed like a tart, like if that was a woman, I'd be like, what's wrong with that lady? Yeah. That's, she's not dressing like a teacher. Yeah. This is crazy. What is she doing? Why is she dressed like that? Is that a costume? Is she in a play?

3 (11m 38s):
Yeah, she's not in a play. Okay, cut. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (11m 41s):
Let's pump the brakes on this one. That

3 (11m 43s):
Fucking lady's gotta be insane. Does she have any kids? Well, actually she doesn't even have a vagina. You know, she's got a penis. Like, what? Hold the fuck on. Hold the

4 (11m 51s):
Fuck on. Now we're getting to a whole nother level of

3 (11m 52s):
This. Yeah, yeah. What are we doing here? Yeah. What's going on? Like,

4 (11m 56s):
But, but that opinion is completely normal, completely mainstream held by virtually everyone. Yes. But people are silent about it. Right. Because they've been stigmatized into believing. If you offer any criticism of the ideology of gender theory or the practice, you are somehow a, a, a bigot. You're somehow homophobic. You're somehow, you're definitely far right. You're far, you're a far right extremist. and it

3 (12m 19s):
Like, and you're lumped in with k, KK. Yeah. You're lumped in with like storm front people

4 (12m 23s):
Lumped in. But this is a, a 90% opinion. Yeah. And so, you know what, what I think is so important is to stop playing the game. Yeah. And to say, you know what? I'm gonna tell the truth and I'm gonna take the slings and arrows because I know that the public opinion is on my side. And people fear speaking out. But they need representation. And that to me is the name of the game. Well,

3 (12m 45s):
You are really good at explaining everything that's happening and are really good at, like, laying it out in a very easy to understand pattern. Like where it first was introduced into the education system, the blind spots that people have towards how Marxism works. Even especially like during the time of the 1960s and the seventies when a lot of this stuff was gaining mo momentum in the United States because of the anti-war movement, they were completely ignoring what happened in the gulags. They're completely ignoring what happened in Cuba. They had this very rosy perception of communism, which always leads to military dictatorship always.

3 (13m 27s):
There's no evidence of it ever not leading to that. It's the, it's like the idea of like, you know, I know everybody dies of rabies, but I don't think I'm gonna die of rabies. Yeah, exactly. I'm just gonna get bit by fucking rabies kills everybody. Yeah. It's like one lady who didn't die of rabies 'cause of a very novel treatment where they have to put her into a medically induced coma. 'cause rabies is such an old disease, and it's such an aggressive disease that your immune system can fight it off, but it can't keep up with it. And eventually the rabies wins and it always wins. So by putting her in a medically induced coma, I don't know what about the, the biological process of it, but it somehow or another shorted out her body to the point where it had the resources to effectively battle the rabies because she was just completely immobile Wow.

3 (14m 15s):
In, in a medically induced coma. So she actually was one of the very few people ever in history to survive rabies.

4 (14m 22s):
The analysis

3 (14m 24s):
Is perfect.

4 (14m 24s):
Mar I mean Marx can do it. Marxism will put your whole society at best in a medically induced coma. And at worst you get starvation, gulags, mass suppression. And so, well, it

3 (14m 36s):
Kills the society is what the point is. The point is, the best case scenario is that you somehow through a medically induced coma, fucking survive it. Yeah. There's no improvement. No, you're probably er wrecked for the rest of your life. I mean it's probably such a horrific disease that everything's compromised after that.

4 (14m 52s):
When I was in my twenties, I traveled through a lot of the former Soviet Union Socialist Republic, so Kazakhstan, Kirstan, central Asia and Mongolia and other, and other countries that have been ruled by the Soviets. And what happened, and I think there is a Of course with caveats in a much lighter way here is you have an ideology that seeks conquest. It generates failure, and then it seeks more conquest. And so when you travel through those countries, it is the most depressing, gray, dismal, haunted kind of places you can be. It's these Soviet block housing. It has enormous rates of alcoholism. You see people strewn on the road freezing to death in the winters.

4 (15m 35s):
There's no economic productivity, there's no culture. The Soviets had evaporated their religions and all of their old customs. And so you have human beings that have been totally extracted from any of their cultural traditions. They've been totally an annihilated as far as their economic possibilities. But you still have, you know, three, four, 5 million people. And it's, it's what happens when your society is devoured by ideology. And so the ideology that we're seeing in American institutions is Of course different. We're blessed with this country to have a much more robust system and history. But it's, it's functionally the same. And, and to your point, in the late eighties or late sixties and early seventies, you had true Marxist Lenins radicals, the Black Panther Party, the Communist Party, USA, the weather underground.

4 (16m 24s):
And if you look at their literature, their propaganda materials from that time, and you compare it to what's happening in let's say Buffalo Public Schools, their BLM curriculum. I actually did this. I looked at the Black Panther party pamphlets. They were selling to Foment Revolution and the Buffalo Public Schools curriculum, you know, it's like pretty close. The ideas are the same Of course. They're softened, they use the nice language about DEI or, or or what have you. But, you know, we should take ideas seriously. And bad ideas have bad consequences for societies.

3 (16m 57s):
And it's a small amount of people that are having an enormous influence on indoctrinating kids. And that's why you're seeing kids today that grow up with this version of the society and reality that we live in. That so doesn't jive with people that are older than them who didn't grow up in that system, who are like, what are you talking about? Like, it's not that bad. Like the things you're saying are insane. You're freaking out over almost nothing and not paying attention to the important things. There's important things going on in this world, but it's not microaggressions. Yeah. It's, it's not that Google shouldn't show images of white men. When you pumping the AI and ask who the founding fathers are, it's, they wouldn't even, they, did you see what they did with Nazis?

4 (17m 43s):
Did they make multiracial Nazis?

3 (17m 44s):
Multiracial Nazis? They had an Asian woman. N that's

4 (17m 47s):
Inclusive. Yeah. I guess

3 (17m 48s):
It's fucking bananas. It's bananas. It it's literally like a movie. It's a Mike Judge movie. It's Idiocracy. Yeah. It's a very strange thing where logic has just been blown by the wayside. 'cause the very people that are in charge of disseminating education and, and, and challenging young minds have completely abandoned that task and are now wholesale focused on promoting this ideology that must be adhered to. And none of these people exist that are teaching these things. None of these people exist in the world that we are currently existing in, which is the outside of university world.

3 (18m 31s):
Yeah. These people exist in this Bazar world where they get indoctrinated and educated, and then they indoctrinate more and educate more, and they stay in this system. And they're not out there in the world. They're just not. But

4 (18m 42s):
That raises the question us. But they don't speak for us. They don't agree with us. And yet they're ruling the institutions that are educating our children, that are forming the values that are creating the very vocabulary that we use. You know, the, the used to be that you'd have a quirky tweeted out, you know, Marxist professor who would be smoking a pipe in an Ivy League school, and you could say, well, that's fine. The kids go to go to Princeton and they get two years with the, the, the Marxist wack job, and then they get out in the real world. The problem is that that ideology that was confined to a relatively small part of society where it was tolerated because it added some diversity of experience or ideas, has now extended to institutions that really do matter.

4 (19m 27s):
And so the question is, if you're sending your kids to school, the majority of the parents don't like what's being taught and it's being taught anyway. What kind of system do we live in? Is that democratic governance? Is that the representation of the people? If we're paying for it, we're sending our kids through it, but we don't have a, a, a stake in and and, and the control of the values that are being formed in those institutions. You know, I think it, it's a very serious question. It's not trivial to say we're kind of beyond some of those limits and some of those constraints that make a democratic form of government meaningful when the bureaucracy rules and it's pushing ideology against the will of the majority of the people.

4 (20m 13s):
We're in a kind of scary position in, in our country.

3 (20m 17s):
And it seems like it's, it's willing participation by the masses as well, because they feel like they're a part of change. They feel like they're a part of imposing these ideas on the rest of the world, and the rest of the world is going to have to catch up and they will be the ones that were correct because they were on the right side all along. And it's very strange to watch it play out because it kind of seems unstoppable at this point. It's, it's very disheartening. Like you see it with das, like there's an issue going on right now in Austin where they, they have this progressive Soros funded DA who's just letting everybody outta jail. Yeah. Like, what, what'd you do?

3 (20m 57s):
Rape people? Let 'em outta jail. Murder someone, let 'em outta jail. It's fucking bananas. Yeah. And this idea that someone

4 (21m 4s):
Microaggression straight to prison,

3 (21m 6s):
They're talking about the dropping crime, but it's because crime's not reported in a lot of places now because the, the crime went up so high and they defunded the police. It's like in Austin, they need, they're 500 cops down and the morale is down because of the defund the police and because, you know, cops, like, there was, I think there, I believe there was 21 cops that were brought up on aggression charges during the Black Lives Matter protest. 17 of those cases I think have been dropped. don don't know. I'm sure if that find what the, here I'll send you an article. You could tell me if that it's in Barry Weiss's Substack Today or her, her newspaper. Sure. But this is a, a real problem where you see the results playing out.

3 (21m 46s):
You see that they're negative and I mean kudos to Oregon for, you know, correcting course. But you see it playing out in with crime and with prisons. And, and here's my number one beef with this, all this effort to do that, all this effort to let people outta jail, no cash bail. What about reform? What about putting all that effort into reforming people? How come that doesn't exist? What about funding reform inside the prisons? What about going to all these impoverished, drug ridden gang ridden communities and doing some good, how come there's no effort there? If you're a real progressive, you want fucking progress.

3 (22m 27s):
You don't want people who are already fucked up by the system and violent criminals, habitual criminals, and just let 'em lose to victimize everybody else. Raise everyone's anxiety, create more crime and violence, and, and have no solution to it whatsoever. That's not the solution. It's very unfortunate those people are in that situation where they are habitual criminals. And I'm sure a variety of factors beyond their control contributed to that without doubt. Right? Sure. But that's the solution's not let them out. The solution is stop that from happening in the future. And there's no effort whatsoever put on that. There's no conscious thought of like, how do we get at the beginning of this?

4 (23m 6s):
Yeah. It, it, it, and that's a almost impossible question to answer because it is so complex. There are so many Contributing factors, but I actually don't think it's totally necessary to do that. You actually can just say, here are the behaviors that we tolerate. Here are the ones that we don't tolerate. And then you lay out a series of simple consequences. And so what we're seeing in El Salvador, which Of course is ongoing, it's fraught with potential problems. But what they did is essentially lock up the 1% of the El Salvador and population that were the violent committed gang members and, and drug runners. And they reduced the murder rate by more than 90%. It used to be the most dangerous country in the world, highest murder rate. Now it's per capita, you know, depending on how you measure it, one of the safest countries in the hemisphere, the lesson is that, that it is actually a vanishingly small number of people that commit the, the, the large plurality or majority of crimes.

4 (23m 60s):
And so it's not that you have to have a a a kind of soul searching and endless kind of naval gazing and, and philosophizing. It's simply to say, you know, people who are a direct threat to others that commit violent crimes that maybe have 20, 30, 40, a hundred convictions in their criminal history, you know, cannot participate in society without limits. And it's a, it's something that people have been scared to talk about, but I think that that is ending because when people start to feel a sense of danger in their daily lives, they're gonna start to break through some of those taboos and to say, Hey, wait a minute.

4 (24m 42s):
Yeah. They're letting people outta jail who are violent criminals doesn't seem to be working. Yeah. And, and, and I and I think we're there even in Seattle, they elected a Republican city attorney. They elected a moderate city council, a moderate mayor. And, and the big cities, especially the west coast cities, our our our waking up to this citizen rage. These are the most prosperous cities in the history of the world. But they can't keep the streets clean. They can't keep people safe.

3 (25m 11s):
Well, they can when Xi Jingping comes to town. That's

4 (25m 13s):
Right. Yeah, that's

3 (25m 14s):
Right. The wild is that one. That's who is so wild. Yeah. Because what he does is so blatant. Yeah. Like the Panera Bread thing, the Panera Bread thing, the Panera bread thing is amazing. You

4 (25m 24s):
Almost have to respect

3 (25m 25s):
It. You almost have to respect it. It's so

4 (25m 28s):
Brazen. It's

3 (25m 29s):
Like explain it to people. Wait, hold, don't Yeah, the

4 (25m 31s):
Panera Bread. So it's like you're gonna raise the minimum wage for all fast food restaurants to $20 an hour except for Panera Bread because the Panera bread guy is his friend. and I think it and

3 (25m 42s):
I, it's separate. But the way around that to make don't look that obvious is places with bakeries.

4 (25m 46s):
But the what? That that's not what is the I mean?

3 (25m 49s):
Why, why a specific way of cooking? There is no

4 (25m 54s):
No justification. There's no rational justification for it. And, and, and so it's almost like,

3 (25m 59s):
Oh, it says Panera is not exempted from California's fast food minimum wage law. After all, on February 28th, Bloomberg reported that bakery chain Panera would be exempt from California's ab 1, 2, 2 8 law, a law that raises minimum wage for fast food workers from 16 to $20 an hour starting in 81. So why is that? How is it not exempt? That's a hell

4 (26m 19s):
Of a fact check. I didn't know that. Yeah,

3 (26m 20s):
But they were saying that it was bakeries were exempt. So what is exempt? It said, okay, governor Gavin Newsom told the Los Angeles Times Panera would not be exempt from the law. The spokesperson also did denied a claim. The Bloomberg piece, which cited sources close to the matter, that Newsom pushed for an exemption that applies to businesses that baked bread and sell as a standalone, sell it as a standalone item calling the report Absurd. So is it a fake story that's

4 (26m 47s):
I mean? It's, or is it something that they they

3 (26m 49s):
That they might have corrected the course hustled

4 (26m 50s):
And corrected course quickly. Yeah.

3 (26m 52s):
Yeah. Although roll up to the top. So where's the initial report? Let's find the initial report because why would Bloomberg spread bullshit? Bloomberg is a financial paper, right?

4 (27m 5s):
Yeah, that's

3 (27m 5s):
Right. That's not something

4 (27m 7s):
I don't think it would be. Yeah, you,

3 (27m 8s):
You really can't do that if you're running a financial paper. It's not like the New York Times. The New York Times can say Israel bombed the hospital and 500 people are killed and put on the front page even if it's not true. And everybody just assumes it's true because it's the New York Times. But they can kind of get away with that. Yeah. And then they still exist. But if Bloomberg started doing shit like that, if Bloomberg started lying about businesses and what businesses would do, or tax laws, that seems insane how Panera Bread ducked California's new $20 minimum wage. This is Bloomberg governor pushed for a carve out that's perplexed industry observers and benefited a donor. So how do we know that this is true?

3 (27m 50s):
Do we have to subscribe? They

4 (27m 51s):
Dreaded paywall. One second.

3 (27m 52s):
One second. Okay. No worries. We'll subscribe. You owe we owe you Bloomberg. But it's, there must be something to it. And it's so hard with that guy because when you just look at the way he praised bidet, I would never run against him a man of character. You know, like, like I'm old school. It's God, he, it's like he's playing someone in a movie that's a crazy person. It's like that's how, that's how like a really good actor Yeah. Would play a complete crazy person who's insincere enough that smart people recognize it. Yeah. But that like really dull minded blue no matter who people, like he's a winner.

3 (28m 35s):
That guy. He's got my vote. I'll tell you what, he can win. He can win this for us.

4 (28m 40s):
But the problem is, is that that's not wrong. I mean Yeah. Gavin Newsom is a fearsome political talent and his willingness to do or say anything and do it with a straight face with that sincere voice and that cool, you know, swoopy hair I mean

3 (28m 56s):
I love that He keeps getting busted too. Yeah. I love that he got busted during the pandemic eating inside with no mask on. He's just fucking,

4 (29m 3s):
The, the shamelessness on that guy is like, it's like a laboratory specimen. Yeah. I mean it's actually is an interesting guy and fascinating person in that way. I'm not a fan. I disagree with him politically, but I don't think he should be underestimated because those of us who can see through it Yeah. I think are actually a pretty small number of people.

3 (29m 22s):
Well I think you're probably right. and I think there's also people that just want a really good quarterback for the team. That's what I think. I think they barely care who the president is. and I think that's pr obvious with Obama. Excuse me, with with with Bidet, not with Obama at all. The opposite with Obama. Yeah. Obama was like the best example of what we have to offer. But bidet is without doubt anyone can beat him. If, if you were just comparing competence, you know, someone who you would trust talking, someone who you would trust to go meet foreign dignitaries. There's zero he has, he's no one he's gonna beat. He's not gonna be a single living politician.

3 (30m 2s):
But since he's a top a top of this team that people are like, this team is our team no matter what. Like we are all in, I'm a fucking 49 ERs fan for life. Yeah. That's what these people are doing. Yeah. And they literally don't kill they, they'll gaslight you into a coma. Did you see that piece that someone wrote the other day? How his age is his superpower? Did you see that shit? I didn't see that. Panera exempted from California's minimum wage hike, thanked and Newsom link. Okay. And this is Snopes. What does Snopes say?

5 (30m 32s):
His, them explaining what the article was and then I'll skip to the paragraph where it

3 (30m 36s):
Talks about that. Did they do they debunk it?

5 (30m 38s):
Yeah, it's, this is, no not don don't, I didn't get through all the article, but it is explaining what

3 (30m 45s):
Happened here. Okay. The confusion exception. Let, okay, here's according to California state law set to take effect April 1st, 2024, a restaurant chain with more than 60 locations nationwide that produces for sale bread as a standalone menu item does not count as fast food. The confusing exemption led to controversy following a Bloomberg article published February 28th, reporting that the fast casual chain Panera Bread is dodged an upcoming minimum wage increase for fast food workers in California $20 an hour. The article connected the bread exemption to billionaire Greg Flynn, a frequent donor to California Governor Gavin Newsom's political campaigns who owns more than two dozen Panera Bread locations in the state.

3 (31m 25s):
In a statement of Snopes, however, Newsom spokesperson Alex Stack denied any such connection, played a role in the law, and even suggested the exemption would not actually apply to Panera. The governor never met with Flynn about this bill. And the story is observed. Stack said, well, they don't have to meet, they can talk on the phone. Our legal team has reviewed and it appears that Panera is not exempt from the law. Whoops. Yeah. The legal team reviewed it after they, so there is an exemption. Right?

5 (31m 53s):
Right. So that's where I was gonna get to this.

3 (31m 55s):
Okay. So how would they not be the provision exempting restaurants that make and sell bread as a standalone item from the rule was included in both the 2022 and 2023 bills. The exemption, as we mentioned above, is real and was achieved by not designating such restaurants as fast food. However, Newsom's office said illegal analysis determined Panera, like other chain bakeries, does not fall under the exemption because it mixes his dough offsite instead of fully producing bread on the premises of its retail locations. Oh my God. Interesting. But that makes sense. Yeah, that makes sense. 'cause they're just, it's like subway, right? Subway doesn't make the dough either. That's right. Starbucks doesn make sense This so this, but that, why would you be able to pay people less Baker if you have an bakery, an artesian bakery that requires more skill Are

4 (32m 39s):
Is the Bakers lobby that powerful or the like

3 (32m 42s):
This the opposite. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, well the, the, the, the bakers are the ones who would be lobbying for more money.

4 (32m 47s):
That's what I mean. Yeah, yeah. The the actual bakers. Yeah. So I that I mean they, but even look at Snopes, Snopes has done a fact check on my work that actually got debunked PolitiFact has done it. Washington Post they fact

3 (32m 59s):
Check the history. Snopes is

4 (33m 1s):
Wild, is wild. But a lot of these fact check sites, they've actually had to retract claims against me where they say, oh, you know, Chris Rufo is reporting said X, Y, and Z. It's not true. And then I provide them the documentation, the evidence, I raise a stink about it and then they reverse course. And a a lot of these, like, that's such a massive facts. And who did they reach out to to verify Governor Newsom's office. Right.

3 (33m 22s):
Who said it's absurd. Yeah, yeah.

4 (33m 23s):
Of course he's gonna say it's absurd Of course because he got in trouble for it. So. Yeah. But I, I I think the point about bidet that you were making is, is, is really instructive because bidet is like the end at Bernie's president. I mean it's, yeah, exactly. It's like they, they wheel him around. And so what you get a, a glimpse of is the, the Democratic party machine, what are their priorities? What are they gonna put on the teleprompter? What is the staff level gonna decide is important? And then they kind of wheel bidet out there to kind of kind of stammer for a couple minutes, say the talking points and get out. And so we're, we're seeing what's important to the party as a movement. The opposite is Trump. Trump is, you know, a a a unique individual figure.

4 (34m 3s):
The party is following him. Look, these are the two models that we have. And increasingly the voters are saying we want to have a a rematch. What do you think? Well

3 (34m 14s):
It's, it's, it is interesting that he's so frail that he's transparent. Right. And he's so transparent to the point where the White House press secretary accidentally tweeted as him from her account. You saw that? Yeah. Right. Which is wonderful. I love when that happens. 'cause like thank you. I was wondering and now I know, you know, I was really confused. I kind of had a feeling it was you. Yeah. You know, and is, is there ever been a worse White House press secretary? She's, it's how, how did she get that job? She's so bad at convincing people. There's, there's a bunch of like hardcore ideologically driven left wing pundits that are on YouTube that could do a way better job.

3 (34m 55s):
Yeah. And they would be fucking psycho about it. Yeah. They would be psycho about it and the left would be like, yeah. Yeah. Like she's not the one. Yeah. Like she's fucking terrible at it. She gets called out for stuff all the time. She gets set up for stuff all the time. Like Peter Ducey always setting her up. He talks to her Ducey iss amazing. He's he's so good. He'll provide a little bit of this. But then what about that? Yeah. And you know, she's just awful at it.

4 (35m 18s):
And, and she's only really challenged by one person Right. In the briefing room and still manages to bung it on the daily. Well

3 (35m 24s):
It's just, there's so much madness that she has to like, cover up.

4 (35m 28s):
It's what, and look, this is again a, a kind of brass tacks way of talking about it, but it's what happens when you put identity over competence. Yeah. Everyone knows, like, explicitly. And then when you hire someone, it's a big celebration of all the different intersectional identities the, the the candidate has. Yeah. You know, this is our first, you know, black female I know L-G-B-T-Q, not really Sure. Yeah. And, and so the, the, the problem with that though is when you're not making a decision based on competence, merit excellence, you're buying into it at the front end on that different hierarchy of decision making. But then on the back end you can't do anything about it. Right. You say, well, you elevated this person for identity. You can't fire that person because of incompetence.

3 (36m 9s):
Unless they steal women's clothes from the airport.

4 (36m 12s):
Yeah. Unless

6 (36m 13s):
Exactly. Unless they get a little sideways.

4 (36m 16s):
You know,

3 (36m 17s):
That guy was my favorite.

4 (36m 18s):
But the, the Harvard story is this exact phenomenon. Yes. And you know, after the ten seven attack, Harvard kind of reveals the ideology in the institution. And then another reporter and I obtained the plagiarism documents. We were the ones who broke the plagiarism

3 (36m 35s):
Story. Let's just, for people that aren't aware for maybe, so this can be standalone. What Christopher's referring to is that Harvard, the, the, the president of Harvard and, and the president of MIT and Penn, they all had this meeting where they were grilled by who, which was the concept

4 (36m 55s):
Step

3 (36m 56s):
Yes. Who grilled them about using anti-Jewish hate and is that hate speech to say death to the Jews. And their answer was essentially, if it's actionable Yeah. Then it's hate. It was the most bonkers Bazar mental gymnastics. And also with that one woman from Penn done in the most condescending way. Oh yeah. It's like she's so accustomed to being the boss so accustomed to people like accepting her word and not dealing with the outside world that she doesn't realize how fucking insane what she's saying is. Yeah.

4 (37m 32s):
I, the question was, if if students were calling for the genocide of Jews, would that violate Harvard's policy? Yes. And the answer from Claudine Gay, the former president, was it depends on the context. It's like I mean. Oh. You know, and so that is a moment where things that had been obscure, especially for people on the center left Yes. Suddenly became clear. Yes. And so this caused all sorts of chaos. Predictably, you have donors dropping out, you have alumni furious. And then a little birdie sent another reporter and and me a document showing that actually Claudine gay, you know, great scholar of Harvard had plagiarized dozens of passages in her PhD thesis.

4 (38m 23s):
And so in this context of this big fight, you know, you get a document like this and you say, this actually reveals the heart of this conflict. And so published it, obviously it causes a huge firestorm. But the question is the same. It's to say to Harvard, okay, DEI is the defacto highest principle of the university. Now that's clear. But your motto for the last, you know, three, 400 years has been Veritas truth. And, and we put them in a dilemma where they had to choose one. You either choose DEI or you choose truth. Which one are you gonna sacrifice? and I think as a country, the reason that story drove so much attention is because that's where we are politically.

4 (39m 8s):
That's where we're on policy. That's where companies find themselves. Where are we going, what are our values? And we have this competing set of values. And for me, as someone who look, I'm, I'm, I'm unabashed, I'm a a a I'm a political person. I try to drive political change. I think framing the question clearly so that people really understand what's at stake is just the beginning part of the process of getting sanity back.

3 (39m 35s):
Yeah. and I think people are waking up. Jamie, why don't you shut your mic off? 'cause Carl's snoring up a storm over there.

4 (39m 42s):
Carl,

3 (39m 43s):
While you were talking I was here.

4 (39m 45s):
Yeah, yeah. Geez, Carl. It's that boring. Yeah.

3 (39m 49s):
Carl gets bored quick. He's only four months old. But the, the, the curious thing to me was that most people, until they saw those videos, weren't aware of how far it had gone. And, and then they're like, okay, now I kind of get it. And there's been a, a, a very, very big reaction since then and people realizing how insane everything has gotten. I think that this is something that came up. Like when Jordan P. Peterson first started doing my show, which was, I think, when was Jordan's first appearance? Was it 2015, 2016? Yeah. Somewhere around then when I had seen his story and, and seeing these videos of him being interviewed, explaining to people, no, you don't understand.

3 (40m 32s):
If you impose this legislation that makes it a hate crime to not use someone's preferred gender pronouns. This is not gonna stop there. It's gonna keep going and going and going and going and you can't let it happen. And he's right back then. Hundred percent right back. But back then, the pushback was so fascinating. 'cause people were like, why are you having this guy on your show to talk about this thing that's happening only in these obscure universities? It's never gonna go anywhere. But now you look at it eight years later and it's fucking everywhere. It's everywhere.

4 (41m 4s):
Dude, I I, so one of the things that I do, I'm a trustee at a public university in Florida. New College of Florida. Governor DeSantis appointed me and a number of other reformers to take over this university, replace all of the leadership, and then turn it into a classical liberal arts university. It's in Sarasota, it's a beautiful campus. The tuition is less than $7,000. And we wanna turn it into a place where conservative families can send their kids and feel like they're getting a good education. But when we did this, what we did is we, we came in, we replaced the leadership, we abolished the DEI department, we terminated the gender studies program. And then we said, you know, we're not gonna comply with these ridiculous pronoun rules.

4 (41m 46s):
And so the old DEI director and then her allies at the A CLU and elsewhere actually filed a federal civil rights complaint against me. So I'm currently under investigation by the fed, by federal civil rights bureaucrats for refusing to call this woman by ZR pronouns. ZR not, you know, okay, trans okay man, woman, okay, whatever zr. And it's like, be the

3 (42m 12s):
Way federal indictment. Imagine, imagine for even just refusing to call this person. He, her people are have always been rude. Yeah. Are we gonna like legislate against rudeness? Are we gonna say that? Like if someone decides to call me Mrs. Rogan, I can I can I get them arrested in locked in a cage? 'cause they're being rude to me. 'cause they're calling me a girl.

4 (42m 31s):
If you are a member of a protected class, yes. That's where it's going. That's where they'd like it to go. And look, I have to spin up lawyers. Thankfully the university is handling it, but I mean this is not trivial. And the, the, the what Peterson, you know, Jordan Peterson great. What he brought up illustrates this point. If they can get you to lie about something trivial, they can get you to lie about anything. It's a simple sales technique. You get people in the door, you get them to buy some small item, you get them to kind of cash up and then you work them up the chain to a bigger purchase or a bigger commitment or a bigger ideology. It's how Colts work. Yeah. And so, like, I, I learned this as a kid.

4 (43m 12s):
My, my father's Italian from Italy. And we went to Rome and to the Vatican. This this sales guy, it's like everything about sales and persuasion. I learned like 10 years old watching this guy. He came up, he said, oh, you know, sir, it's a beautiful day. I had a new grandchild that was born. Let me give you this beautiful St Christopher medal or St St Joseph medal to celebrate this. And as soon as you take it, you know you're hooked because he's gonna sell you the commemorative Vatican coins for a hundred bucks or whatever. And so this is the ante, you know, once you put in the ante, you're playing the hand. And so this stuff is like, it's rage bait for the right. It drives headlines, it drives outrage, it drives, you know, some, some kind of momentum

3 (43m 53s):
Ratings.

4 (43m 54s):
Ratings. But what it's not driving unfortunately, is a substantive pushback, legal, administrative policy. And, and, and as far as kind of deeper cultural changes. But I I, I'm very concerned because these are just these gambits where they make, and once they stick, then you're in. It's very hard to roll back. Look at the military you have. Right. All of these, you know, men masquerading as women that are now suddenly elevated in the military hierarchy. This is not trivial. We're the most powerful military in the world. We maintain, you know, kind of international peace. Yeah. And it's like now the highest concern is trans.

4 (44m 34s):
Mm. No, not, I don't think that this is how we should be making decisions. and I don't think that we should be submitting to the original lie. You should never submit to the original lie because if you do, you can never successfully push back again.

3 (44m 50s):
It's, it's certainly odd that they're pushing that. It, it, you know, this is where I get so confused because if I really want to go full tinfoil hat conspiracy, I would say, well, if I was a foreign country, I would be promoting this as much as possible in any way I could. I would be funding organizations to do things that would destroy cities. I would be funding universities to continue insane policies. I'd be teaching them the kind of things that they taught people. Where that woman, do you remember you saw that woman who talked to Josh Howley and he, he was asking, I think it was like, can men get their periods?

3 (45m 37s):
And, and she is actually laughing. Why she, I just wanna, wanna point out Yeah. That, yeah. I just wanna point out what you're saying is transphobic and opens up trans people to violence. Like what?

4 (45m 51s):
I think she was a Stanford law professor.

3 (45m 54s):
She was some somewhere. Yeah. Might have been Berkeley. Yeah. but it was whatever it was, it was like, what did you just say? What did you just say? And why did you say it that way? You think you are so accustomed to being in your bubble that you don't recognize how gross it is when you giggle before you say something. Yeah. I just wanna point out what you're saying is transphobic and opens up trans people to violence. Like some, some men can have periods,

4 (46m 22s):
But this is, this is the dominant culture in HR departments. K through 12 schools, universities, government bureaucracies. Yeah. That is the, the social game that has been established. And so, you know, when we took over New College of Florida, it was the most left-leaning university. It's basically the evergreen, it was the evergreen state of Florida. It was the, the, the student population was more than 50% trans queer and non-binary.

3 (46m 48s):
More than 50%.

4 (46m 49s):
More than 50%. What

3 (46m 50s):
Is the odds of that in terms of like the normal account when they do, if you get a random group of 100 human beings and there's

4 (46m 57s):
A bit of a disparity there, you know, especially 'cause like non-binary is fake. It's not a thing. Right. It's, it, it just doesn't exist. You

3 (47m 4s):
Can be non-binary. I

4 (47m 5s):
I mean maybe

3 (47m 6s):
I am. You can be, you just, you can just say it. You just say it. I knew a dude who used to say it. He used to date only girls.

4 (47m 11s):
That was his, that was his strategy. Yeah.

3 (47m 13s):
It's like, it's like a con It's a con. You're a part of the, the

4 (47m 17s):
Male feminist. You're

3 (47m 18s):
LBGT. Exactly. It's little cuttlefish. Yeah,

4 (47m 21s):
Yeah. You know, it is like a, it's a strategy a

3 (47m 24s):
Hundred percent.

4 (47m 25s):
And it works maybe at the initial, but there are negative consequences. Yeah.

3 (47m 29s):
There's flaws. Yeah. There's flaws. And then once women figure out what you're doing, they don't respect you anymore.

4 (47m 34s):
But what happens, so we go to the university and, you know, we're the new bosses. The governor gives us a mandate to, to, to do significant changes in reforms. and I, remember I took some of my guys, we, we kind of landed on campus the first time. Student protests, death threats, you know, swat team mobilized to, to, to protect us. and I remember meeting with the old administrators, you know, and walking in and, and, and, and these are, these are people that are just wagging their finger in my faces in my face, rather fingers in my face. They're saying, oh, you can't do this. You're opening up the community to violence. You're this blah, blah. You can't host a talk on campus because all all these, all this same stuff you're talking about.

4 (48m 17s):
And then I think like, all of you are about to get fired. Do you not understand the situation that you're in? You finger wagging is not gonna work anymore. The governor is tough as nails. He told us before we took over. If you're not driving massive negative headlines, if you're not, if you're not, if you're not getting flack, you're not doing your job, I'll back you up a hundred percent. Go in and make the change. But what I realize in that moment is that the people who have created little nests of power with this ideology have never been challenged. No one in a meeting says, actually this is a stupid idea. Right. We should get back to business. And so for me it was this remarkable realization that we've created this social and psychological pattern within our institutions where they're like fragile, brittle, unhinged.

4 (49m 8s):
Because the most passive aggressive, the most ideological, the most kind of nagging person ends up winning. And if we're gonna have better institutions, we have to have people, men and women that go in and just say, no, no more bullshit. No more games, no more ideology. We have a serious job to do. We're gonna get it done. And if you don't join the mission, you're out pink slip. You know? And so that's kind of what we did. You saw the same thing at Twitter when Elon took over Twitter. These are the hard decisions that we haven't made in a long time that I think are, are, are, are desperately needed.

3 (49m 46s):
I, I think so too. and I think that what they're doing by allowing this culture where every anxiety gets justified and amplified, you're, you're just creating more anxious people. You're creating more fucked up kids. You're, you're turning the whole world into this unfixable, systemically racist, chaotic scene that you have to go out and amend and you have to amend it through DEI and you have to amend it through quality of outcome. And you have to amend it through tax.

3 (50m 27s):
The rich and like the, the, the whole thing behind it is just so unhinged. And how many of those people, if they had gone to a place where they were met with intellectual challenges by motivated professors who are not ideologically driven, who could have taught them important things about life that they would remember and apply to the world as they go out and try to make their way. We're not preparing people for that. Because the people that are preparing the people have never done that. And it's a giant part of the problem.

3 (51m 8s):
It's like someone teaching you how to do a thing that they don't do. Yeah. Unless they're teaching. That's what I say about drag queens. Unless they're teaching you how to be a drag queen, I'm not interested.

4 (51m 21s):
No, but that's what they're doing. I mean they're, they're,

3 (51m 23s):
They're, yeah, they're doing that sort of,

4 (51m 24s):
They're for sure it's a modeling thing. The drag queen comes in with a position of status, prestige, admiration. Right. That's presented it as this amazing, you know, life path. And even the drag queen theorists, if you read their academic papers, which is not everyone's cup of tea, but I I I've, I've made the sacrifice. They say very queer, very clearly and very clearly. They say we are training kids to move into the queer ideology, the ideology of queer theory, the academic discipline, but also for kind of other ways of knowing, creating a, you know, one of the phrases they use is a site of queer pleasure.

4 (52m 5s):
And, and it's like they're not hiding the ideology that's driving this. If you, if you, if you dig far enough and they really say, they say, we need to abolish the heteronormative traditional family because that's oppressive. Having a mother and a father in a kind of nuclear household environment is a form of racism, transphobia, whatever. All of the different, you know, kind of social ills you could imagine. And so we have people that have no sense of responsibility. We've inherited some good and some bad. You're born into the world in a tragic state of being your society and your tradition and your history is some mixture of good and bad. I think on the whole, our history, our tradition is on net very positive, very good.

4 (52m 50s):
Still problems to solve. That's a kind of universal human nature. But what we're training kids to believe is that everything behind them is evil. All of the structures that have provided a sense of discipline and meaning and purpose should be demolished and they should be replaced by ideological communities. I, i I mean that to me is, is, is evident in the outcomes we're creating a, a generation of anxious, depressed, suicidal, confused kids that have been deprived of all these structures that could actually help them along. I've seen that across the board in my reporting in my work as a documentary filmmaker in my own personal life.

4 (53m 30s):
And so we have to start first by I mean assessing your own situation. What do I do with my kids? Right. And a lot of people are asking that question right now, I know about you, but when I grew up, if you were a upper middle class, professional class household, your parents, you know, bought a house in a nice neighborhood, enrolled you in public k, kindergarten and you kind of went up, it was set it and forget it. That's over. Parents are finally starting to say, Hey, wait a minute, I actually have to look into this. I want to be careful and considerate about, you know, where I'm sending my kids and, and, and what kind of life I'm raising them to live.

3 (54m 6s):
Yes. And there's not a lot of good options. That's what gets confusing. And for a lot of my friends whose kids are about to go to high school and about to go to college, you know, they're making these next steps and towards adulthood. It, it's, it's, it's really scary to them. 'cause they're like, look, your kid can go down the wrong fucking road man. They can go down the wrong road and not be able to self-Correct. Get caught up in momentum and not realize that you're not Contributing to any good you're, you're just fucking things up worse. And that none of this unhoused or home free, or whatever you wanna call it, that's not helping anybody. All this language, all this verbiage, it's not helping anybody.

3 (54m 48s):
And you, you have to fucking work hard to get by in this world. And it's important. It's, it's an important fact facet of being a human being. You, you have to learn what your capabilities are. You have to learn how to push yourself. You have to learn to do things that make you uncomfortable. You have to learn that. And the only way you fucking learn that is by going through. And if we protect kids every step of the way from any sort of difficult thing at all, lower math scores, because people, too many people aren't graduating. So this must be racist. Let's lower the scores. Let's, let's just pass people. Fuck it. We don't wanna be bad people. Let's just pass people instead of teaching them. It's hard to learn shit.

3 (55m 29s):
It's hard. It takes work. That's the whole reason why it's so impressive when someone is really well read, like, wow, that guy put in the work. Yeah. It's really impressive when someone knows a lot of stuff. It's really impressive when someone's really good at something. Well, why is it impressive? Because we know it's fucking hard to do. It's that simple. If you wanna develop human beings that have potential and have and can reach their full potential in this life and be a fulfilled human being, you've gotta teach 'em how to work hard. That's part of the pro the process. It's unavoidable. And if you don't have that facet, if you don't have that as a core tenet of how you view the world, you're fucking up 100%.

3 (56m 13s):
There's no way you're gonna get everything out of life without hard work. It's just, you'll be anxious, you'll be depressed. You'll be, you'll feel lost. You won't feel like you accomplished anything. You all feel like it's been handed to you. You'd be a trust fund baby. You'll be fucked. It's not good for you. You have to work hard. And so you have to overcome, including emotional harm. You have to go through bullshit. You have to go through bad friendships and bad relationships and, and bad coworkers and bad employers. You have to go through that. It's part of the process. It's how you become a human being. And you can't protect people every goddamn step of the way. We're just gonna create a bunch of grownup babies who are screaming in the streets.

3 (56m 57s):
Stop oil now blocking the highway with signs painted, with oil, wearing sneakers made with oil. Every fucking thing they own was driven by a truck that was powered by oil. It's insanity. And this is what we've got.

4 (57m 12s):
And you, you people, look, I I, I'm in that world of words, I ideas publication. It's a pretty easy life in some ways, right? You know, you're doing reading, you're doing writing, you're doing media. But I have a lot of friends that are, you know, live in my small town that do actual hard work. You know, they're doing, they work in the oil business, they're working on commercial plumbing. They're working in actual real things that, that we depend on, but we take for granted. Right? And those things are actually hard, super fucking hard. This, these are super hard. It takes a ton of dedication, a ton of skill. And it's the reason that those of us who are privileged enough in the real sense of the word can do what we do. We depend on this entire infrastructure of, of the actual physical world.

4 (57m 54s):
And so I get endlessly frustrated with people who have these ban oil. Oh, ban oil. Our whole society collapses instantly. Yeah. Everything that you do is vanishes in, in 10 seconds. And so it's like we've created people with not only no connection to the real world around them, but they have no connection to their own nature as human beings. I mean. These are people that don't know what it means to be human. They're just kind of symbols of ideology. They're, they're, they're like, you know, you look at those videos and you're like, these are not people who are making even conscious decisions. These are kind of puppets as part of some agenda, as part of some mimetic ideology that is nihilistic at, at its heart.

4 (58m 39s):
And that's where I think we're going. If you hate your traditions, you hate your history, you hate your economy, you hate your, your own skin color, you know, you have no sense of values. And that's what we all want at the, we all operate on a sense of values, whether it's conscious or unconscious. And when you try to wipe away all, all, all existing values as somehow oppressive or racist or patriarchal, you're dooming people who need to grow up in a world where they know, you know, north from south. Yeah. They know up from down. Yeah. And so, you know, with my own kids, that's what I'm trying to do is, is, is, you know, protect them to the extent that's necessary.

4 (59m 22s):
Create good influences, create some structure, and then prepare them to fight. Because life is a, a fight. Life is a struggle. They're gonna confront very difficult things as they grow up. And you know, and then at some point, you know, you hope that you prepare them enough.

3 (59m 38s):
Yeah. And when you're looking at the difference between the world of today and the world of just 20 years ago, the change is so quick. There's never been a moment in time where so much of society collapsed so quickly. Like what, what year was it? Was it 2020 that we had the highest jump in murder ever? Yeah. The same, the same year. We had the defund, the police, the this. That's scary. That's scary. Because that's the opposite of where, where we expect, if you look at like Pinker's work on, on violence over time, you, you see that societies are trending in a very positive direction.

3 (1h 0m 22s):
At least we were until 2020. And that this one change, it's that that just because it was just one year, but that one year was just three years ago. Kids. Okay? The, the, another thing like that could do that again, especially when you're dealing with even more people who are released out into the world with these radical ideas, especially the people that are inclined to believe that violence is a necessary aspect of change. And these are ironically the same people that don't want anybody to be armed. It's, it's all so wild. It's so wild. Because the, if you wanted to create a perfect recipe for a collapse of a society, you would have a president who's not there.

3 (1h 1m 8s):
You would have a society that is run by fucking maniacs in the educational institutions that when Antifa commits violence, somehow it's mostly peaceful. But yet when anyone else does it, especially if anybody else does it in any sort of a right wing way, that is everything you could throw at it. Transphobic, racist, sexist, homophobic, whatever the fuck you could say. It's everything wrong with the world. Like this is a recipe for a civil war. It's a recipe for chaos. It's a recipe for a complete collapse of everything that's around us. If you just go from what happened so quickly in 2020, it's not hard to imagine if you could bring yourself back to the time in 2020 to think this is never coming back and it's gonna be like this forever and it's gonna get way worse.

3 (1h 2m 0s):
'cause if it can get like this where people could just smash into stores and loot, that's what I started seeing. Yeah. That's one of the things that got me outta California. I watched these guys smash into this, this clothing store and, and steal everything, by the way, all white kids and I saw,

4 (1h 2m 15s):
Or down in Santa Monica or something,

3 (1h 2m 16s):
It was in Woodland Hills and I Hills and I saw, there was a a, a target there that got targeted too, that they, they lit like a dumpster on fire and pushed up against the door. There was a lot of shit that people weren't getting caught for. and it was like right after the George Floyd riots, so the, the, the cop cars in burning on the highway where an image burned in everyone's mind still. And I was like, oh, I know how this movie plays out. I'm getting the fuck outta here. Like, that was my first thought. I was like, I need to figure out how to get outta here. Like, this is, I can't stay 'cause this is only gonna get worse. And if You don't get out now, and you're gonna wish you got out when something happens to someone you love, we gotta get the fuck outta here.

3 (1h 2m 58s):
This is bad. And the, it's not hard to imagine that our society, given the current situation and given the current influences, it's going in that direction. And if I was in another country, I'd be fucking pumped. I was looking at, what's that La lady's name? Rachel, whatever it is. The, the admiral first female Admiral Rachel

4 (1h 3m 21s):
Sir or Mme. Rachel Levine.

3 (1h 3m 23s):
Yeah, Madam. Wonderful. Hilarious. And this other one that was some recent trans military person who was saying, we should all put our pronouns in all of our emails. Even if it's obvious. Like, shut the fuck up. Yeah, shut the fuck up. You, you, how, how come something that used to be considered a mental illness just 10 years ago is now at a precedent that now it's a, a valuable asset. Now it's an important part of our community. Now. It's not like if you found out someone was suicidal, would you want them in charge of the nukes? You wouldn't. Right. Well, you know, just on paper, the amount of trans people that are suicidal, it's much higher than everyone else.

3 (1h 4m 5s):
Like, isn't it something insane? Like 40%? It's something crazy like that. What, what are you doing? Like, are we ignoring facts and statistics? If you know that someone is a bipolar schizophrenic and you got 'em working on a gun range, she'd say, Hey Harry, we just pulled your file and you fucking fly off the handle and you, you have 113 violent episodes since you're a teenager. Yeah. Gimme that gun. You motherfucker get outta here. You can't work here anymore.

4 (1h 4m 33s):
It's like putting Kanye in charge of like an air wing in the Air Force or something. Like, it's just, whoa. I don't know about that. Yeah. It's

3 (1h 4m 39s):
Just nuts. Where we have decided that, listen, I have full sympathy for someone who has gender dysphoria. I've met many people that I truly believe they have somewhere in there. They're a woman and they got stuck in a man's body. and I think that's real. and I think that's always happened.

4 (1h 5m 1s):
But,

3 (1h 5m 2s):
But when you make that more powerful than just being a normal person, more preferable than just being a normal person, subject to less scrutiny than being a normal person. Just a regular per, like, I'm not saying you should discriminate against trans people. I think you should just let everybody be whoever the fuck they are. But don't tell me that I'm supposed to ignore all the other things that could be at play. Say if you are a biological male inmate and you decide that you're a woman and you wanna transition to women's prisons, which in California 47 men have done, don't tell me that just because you're trans, like I'm supposed to abandon that.

3 (1h 5m 48s):
Like I'm supposed to ignore that sex offenders could just walk into a women's locker room with an erection. And everyone's supposed to ignore that. Like, what do you do? You're, you, now you are fucking up the, the acceptance of trans people. 'cause you're saying that trans people are gonna come along with all these sex offenders, which is not really true. There's a lot of the trans people that aren't sex offenders. They're just trans. These other people are taking advantage of this fucking massive loophole that you've left in here and you're victimizing female professional athletes, female college athletes. You're, you're jeopardizing scholarships for those athletes. You're doing a lot of things that fuck up biological women and there's no consideration for that at all.

4 (1h 6m 35s):
Yeah. I I, and look at the, this kind of sorority house. I think it's the probably the best example of this phenomenon where you have some, you know, six two male that is now bunking with a house full of women, young women Yeah. In a sorority house somewhere. And look, obviously, you know, this guy's a pervert that full stop. That is a, a kind of patently obvious thing, right?

3 (1h 6m 59s):
Certainly

4 (1h 6m 59s):
Could be exploiting it. They're manipulating it. Certainly,

3 (1h 7m 2s):
You should certainly consider the possibility that he's a

4 (1h 7m 4s):
Pervert. I think it's a at, at at at the minimum of big, bright red flag that is waving in your face. But the question is an institutional question. You know, who are, who the, the, you know, the fathers of these young girls, the deans of the universities, the university presidents. It's like, Hey, wait a minute, like, accommodate this person. Try to talk to this person, figure out what the deal is, assess whether it actually is kind of a, a real threat or not figure out some alternate arrangement for this person. But especially if the young women are telling you, we don't want this. We're uncomfortable with this. We don't like this. Get this person out. It's a failure on our social institutions that we haven't developed any kind of method for solving this problem.

3 (1h 7m 51s):
Well, it also shows our oppression hierarchy that we have always protected women from sexual predators. Unless that sexual predator identifies as a group that has a social hierarchy above biological women, which is a trans woman. And that's where we're at. Yeah. and it just shows that this is cult thinking. We're in a cult. This is a doctrine that could have been created in the top of a mountain by a wizard. It's nonsense. It's fucking nonsense. And somehow or another, it is the norm in a lot of universities and it's fucking crazy. And these women that have to deal with this shit, that's, it's fucking nuts that people aren't insanely outraged.

3 (1h 8m 38s):
Yeah. And that it's not stopped immediately.

4 (1h 8m 40s):
People are scared that that's the common denominator to all of these things.

3 (1h 8m 45s):
But the problem is the rebound of that is, are equally horrific. 'cause the rebound of that is that people have enough. And then when people have enough and they find out there's this biological male that's being housed in this women's sorority and this biological man, maybe he does something to one of those women, that person, there's gonna be vigilante justice. And that's the last thing you want. We want

4 (1h 9m 7s):
To avoid that by having sensible policies now and head off these problems before they balloon into something that is unmanageable. And so, but you know,

3 (1h 9m 18s):
If it's not

4 (1h 9m 18s):
Already, again, people are scared to speak out. You talk to folks that are, you know, I, I used to have this idea that, oh, you know, there's the concept of fuck you money. Once you have a certain kind of net worth, you're untouchable. You, you have, you're kind of immune to, to, to social consequences. You can do whatever you want. That's not even true. I talk to a lot of folks of, of, you know, considerable means, and not all of them, but many of them are also scared because there's status and prestige concerns, family concerns, business concerns. And so it really is up and down the line. People are scared to speak, they're scared to tell the truth.

4 (1h 9m 60s):
And because there are real social consequences for doing so. But there's

3 (1h 10m 3s):
Real, real consequences across the board. It's not just social. There's economic consequences. There's, there's, you know, there's consequences in terms of your own personal safety. Yeah. There's a lot, a lot of weird shit is going on that people are just tolerating. And it's so strange for me, for, you know, I'm 56 years old. I was born in 1967. I lived in a different world and you know, I grew up in a world with no internet. And so to watch this world change the way and to be a part of the internet now and to, to have existed in both worlds is a very fascinating contrast. 'cause I get to see like, how old are you?

4 (1h 10m 39s):
39. Okay.

3 (1h 10m 40s):
So You don't know shit. You don't know shit about the pre-internet days.

4 (1h 10m 44s):
I didn't get a cell phone until my senior year in high school.

3 (1h 10m 46s):
Oh, you poor baby. Yeah. But you had a computer at home though, huh? Yeah, we had a computer for sure. and it was attached to the internet.

4 (1h 10m 51s):
It was attached to like a OL.

3 (1h 10m 52s):
Yeah. Yeah. Well that's something. Yeah. The kids today, like the 20 year olds, they don't know jack shit about no internet. They have, it's crazy. They have full 5G everywhere They exist. And they're always on. They're always on. They're always on. They also know where everybody's location is. 'cause they use snap map. They're, they're all snap mapping each other. So they know like, oh my God, she told me she she was gonna go into Becky's house and she's over at Debbie's house. Like you,

4 (1h 11m 16s):
Like, like surveillance of your friends. It's fucking nuts, man. Could you imagine? Yeah.

3 (1h 11m 20s):
It's also, it gets you very accustomed to the idea that you have no privacy, which is a reality that we will soon, soon face. And the problem is also that the same people that are involved in pushing these psychotic policies, they're not just the educators. They're also these institutions that recognize the power dynamic and the amount of influence that you can have. If you can get people to adhere to these things, you can get them to do something really stupid. Like submit to a social credit score system, which you would attach to a centralized digital currency. Now you've got communism. And it's like that.

3 (1h 11m 60s):
It's very quick. And just like people self censor, censored on, on Twitter and self-censored on U before Elon Musk and self-censor on YouTube, because they don't wanna get demonetized. People will start doing that in regular society. They will do that because you don't want your social credit score system to, to drop. and it could be something as simple, simple as not using zr, not using zr, and all of a sudden you get hit with a federal charge of not using zr, and now you are being tried for discrimination. And if those fucking psychos are in charge, you might get convicted. And now all of a sudden you've got a real Soviet Union style gulag situation in 2029, United States of America with Admiral Levine as our first female president.

3 (1h 12m 51s):
Yeah. Yeah. That could be our first female president. But

4 (1h 12m 55s):
We're not far from there right now. No. I mean the, the, the absurdity of the A CLU filing a complaint. And now the Department of Education Civil Rights Division following up for refusing to use ZR pronouns. I mean, it's like, it is what it is. This is something we're already here. And, and so the, the first step is to intimidate, right? It's an intimidation mechanism. You gotta defend yourself, you gotta get a lawyer, you have to spend time on it. Right? Maybe you'll get to post or subpoenaed for your records and texts and documents, right? And so a formal social credit system that's tied to like your digital identity would just take this to the nth power. And you know, I spent a year living in western China when I was a documentary filmmaker.

4 (1h 13m 37s):
And this is like where the uyghurs are. The uyghurs are the Muslim minority population of China's west. And they're, you know, ruled by the Han Chinese who comprise the, the majority of the country. And so I observing kind of what they're doing, what they were doing over time. And, and it gets to be a centralized control over your identity. You know, they wouldn't allow Uyghur men to wear mustaches like trivial things that are, that are, that are the beginning, but then it's like very serious kind of regulation of thought and opinion. And so it's propaganda that is backed up by force. That's really all that we're talking about. And we have in a much milder form, like a, like a, a kind of like a light beer form propaganda that is backed up by, by the force of the state.

4 (1h 14m 25s):
And we have to push at every opportunity. And look, I'm a conservative, I work with conservative politicians and intellectuals because we're cobbling together the only viable counter movement. You can't solve this by culture alone. You have to get in the arena of politics. You have to change the law, and you have to replace institutions that are broken with new institutions. It's an uphill fight. There's not a huge reservoir of talent and resources at our disposal. But what I've been trying to do, whether it's with Harvard or critical race theory, or DEI, all of these stories that I've broken and campaigns that I've run is at least turn people on to the idea that something is deeply wrong.

4 (1h 15m 11s):
Put a name and a face to it, and then offer some pathway for them to resolve these problems. And, you know, if we don't, we lose the great promise we were promised. Liberty and equality, those are the two fundamentals. You know, you don't see, people don't even have an understanding of what that means anymore. And so we have to recover intellectually what has been erased from our, our discourse. And then we have to fight in the arena of actual political power. We have to take action. We have to change laws, we have to reform bureaucracies, we have to lead institutions. And so every day that I wake up, it's like, that's what I'm doing. What wins are we putting up on the board?

4 (1h 15m 53s):
Because unless we're having substantial wins in all these little areas, that social credit system that you're talking about, it's just a matter of time.

3 (1h 16m 2s):
Ooh. When you look at the current political landscape, particularly these these trials, how disturbed are you by what seems to be this acceptance that people have for prosecuting political opponents? 'cause to me it's regardless of what you think about Donald Trump as a human being and the the polarizing figure that he is setting the precedent of trying your political opponents to somehow or another either put them in jail or make them seem like complete total criminals in a way that would, for the casual, for the person who's not reading deep into the headlines for the, the casual Democrat that sees this Trump real estate thing that just happened where he got fined three $65 million.

3 (1h 16m 60s):
You the casuals. I've, I've seen people argue, you know, that, you know, fraud is fraud and this, that, and he's a fucking fraud. And, and then I saw Kevin O'Leary explain it from Shark Tank. He was saying, this is what every real estate developer does. They say, my building's worth $400 million. And then someone comes along from the bank and they say, no, it's worth $300 million. We'll give you a loan on $300 million or whatever it is. Whatever the number. It's

4 (1h 17m 23s):
A negotiation.

3 (1h 17m 24s):
But also real estate pricing in general is a strange thing to, to say that's fraud because people overvalue their property all the time. I mean, it's a standard thing that people do. When someone has a house and it's worth $700,000, they start to decide to list it as $900,000. And the the real estate person says, well, you know, it's, it's real. It's really pushing it. The guy's like, that's what I want. I think it's worth $900,000. Like people have always done weird shit like that. For sure. And then when you have this leftist judge that says that Mar-a-Lago is worth 18 million. Right? Like then you just showed all your silly hands, you showed, you showed your hand.

3 (1h 18m 6s):
'cause this is, that's a crazy thing to say in a place that has the most expensive real estate on earth.

4 (1h 18m 11s):
Yeah. and I, I, yeah. And the Mar-a-Lago property is, is not worth $18 million. I mean That's absurd,

3 (1h 18m 16s):
Isn't it? Like 18 acres? Yeah,

4 (1h 18m 18s):
It's huge. It covers both sides of, of the little, you know, key or whatever you call it, the little island. But the, the bigger question is the, the, the question that was first raised by the presidency of Richard Nixon that is now coming to fruition with the, with the presidency and the kind of ex presidency of Donald Trump. We have a democratic system that favors Trump in the sense that he won in 2016. He's winning the primary right now for Republicans in, in 2024. But you have a bureaucracy that is dead set against him. And the rhetoric amounts to a, a very odd claim. They, they essentially say, we want to keep him off the ballot.

4 (1h 18m 58s):
We wanna put him in prison. We wanna bankrupt him so he can't become the president. Even if the people support him, we wanna deprive the people of making the decision. So you wanna take it out of the realm of politics and into the realm of administrative justice or the criminal justice system, right. And adjudicate it in that way. On bogus pretexts, I mean the, the cases are bogus. And so what you're, the question that we're raising is who actually rules in this country? Is it the American people who get to decide by their vote, who represents them in the government? Or is it the permanent bureaucracy that has accumulated so much power? What they can say, even to Donald I mean Donald Trump has been one of the most famous people in the world for decades.

4 (1h 19m 42s):
He's enormously wealthy. He's already been the president of the United States powerful person. And the message is, we can take out anyone that is a threat to the interests of the system that we've built up. And so, as someone who, I didn't vote for Trump in 2016, I did vote for him for 2020, I'll absolutely vote for him now in 2024. It is a contest of how we think of our democratic system. And I'm of the mind that the people should decide, not the bureaucracy. And this is a contest where Democrats are saying, essentially we have to destroy democracy in order to save democracy. Democracy has very different meanings in the two usage usages in the, in that sentence, we have to destroy democracy as we've traditionally known it, electing a president through a vote of the people in order to save democracy, which is rule by expert opinion, rule by the bureaucracy.

4 (1h 20m 36s):
And essentially left wing hegemony, left wing domination over institutions. And as someone who tries to maximize whatever I can do to push forward on these issues politically, it's not lost on me that if they can wipe out someone like Donald Trump, you know, we're, we're all table stakes relatively. Yeah. And, and they're gonna have no hesitation because once they cross the Rubicon, metaphorically speaking, you know, that's when dissent becomes a crime. And we've already seen that. You know, I I I reported on the, you know, kind of gender ideology in schools and, you know, work with some of the parent groups that were trying to mobilize.

4 (1h 21m 17s):
And they all got put on an FBI list. We know this for sure. FBI counter-terrorism list. Jesus. That was specifically for parent school board protestors. So if you participate in the Democratic process, we'll turn you into a criminal. I-I-I-I-I, I hate that with every fiber of my being and whatever threats come my way, whatever lawsuits, whatever, you know, kind of investigations come my way, you know, it's worth it. You know, take me to prison, you know, fine, let's do this because we have to actually confront these questions head on. We need to have people to have enough courage to put to actually, you know, courage without risk is not courage.

3 (1h 22m 2s):
What you're saying is not hyperbole,

4 (1h 22m 4s):
I mean. No, these are facts. Yeah. These are documented, documented facts.

3 (1h 22m 8s):
And again, because it's a person like Donald Trump, you get people thinking like, if you could stop Hitler by any means necessary, wouldn't you stop Hitler? And so they equate Donald Trump with Hitler and go, here you go. This is our modern Hitler. Do you see what Whoopi Goldberg said? What'd

4 (1h 22m 23s):
She say?

3 (1h 22m 24s):
Whoopi Goldberg said that bidet could arrest all the Republicans and put them in jail. You just need to see how unhinged this kind of thinking is. Well, you know what Joe Bidet could do? Joe Bidet. You have to see it. 'cause it's, it's so crazy on tv. She said on television. Find that now Jamie, because it's mess. It's, so

7 (1h 22m 46s):
Let's look at a scenario where the Supreme Court says, yes, he has that, he has all those rights. He is immune from everything. You know what Joe Bidet could do since he is ply president? What? Whoa. He could throw every Republican in jail.

8 (1h 23m 6s):
Yeah. I mean I mean he could I mean. No, no. This is not a good total.

7 (1h 23m 11s):
Totally. He can go. What this means is it's, he could do anything.

3 (1h 23m 16s):
That's not what it means at all. Yeah.

4 (1h 23m 18s):
No,

3 (1h 23m 19s):
But the fact that she says that so confidently, like if, if you are willing to let Donald Trump use presidential immunity, that means Joe Bidet could just go crazy and arrest all the Republicans. 'cause that's what that means. No, that's a not what that means. Even a little bit. Yeah. Like you just added a whole bunch of stuff to what that means. I

4 (1h 23m 39s):
I mean in in fairness though, I mean the view has to be, you know, if you average out the view hosts a among the dumbest people on television and I. It's like they say the thing that people are thinking, but they say it very directly. So they expose whatever truth. But

3 (1h 23m 54s):
Don don't think some of them are dumb You? Don't think so. No, I don't think it's sunny hosts. You think it's deliberate? I think she's ideologically driven and they have blinds blinders on for sure. I don't think Sonny's dumb, but Whoopi is certainly not the brightest person. And what she just said just doesn't make any sense. It's just like so silly to say. It's, it's not a well thought out. It's like if you had an idea for a premise and you like it was totally baked and half baked and you went on stage with it and just fucking, it's nothing there. Just go for it. Yeah. Yeah. There's nothing there. Sometimes comics do that.

4 (1h 24m 25s):
Yeah. And for fun. The other question is then is that representative of a big constituency? I think probably yes. Well, a lot of people, NBC viewers are probably also thinking I don. I don't

3 (1h 24m 34s):
Even think the M-S-N-B-C viewers, I think too, a little bit more sophisticated than that. Yeah. This is, this is like low information blue, no matter who, like older housewives who are mad at the world. Hmm. That's who, that's the appeal that Whoopi Goldberg has. Does Whoopi have children?

4 (1h 24m 52s):
No idea.

3 (1h 24m 54s):
It's interesting too, like really politically motivated older women who don't have children. Yeah. It's, they're, they're very specific. Like you can kind of guess the way they think. I would like to see like what the stats are on older postmenopausal women with no children and how they lean politically.

4 (1h 25m 16s):
Yeah. College educated. Yeah.

3 (1h 25m 18s):
Oh, I was like, yeah, I know it's extreme. I bet. It's like my fans being male. Yeah. It's

4 (1h 25m 22s):
Like, yeah, exactly. It's like ocean blue I mean like the, the, the depths of

3 (1h 25m 27s):
That bond. Nanas. Yeah. And because the women that I know that are Republican, they're almost all moms. It's kind of wild. Well, there's a lot of young, like, hot Republican women that are social influencers now too, which is hilarious. Yeah. It's fun. It's fun to see like these trends, you see 'em in things where people realize like, oh, this is a pass to success. I'm gonna be a black Trump supporter. Totally. You know, they just run with it. Yeah. You see a little bit of that. But I feel like with a lot of moms that I know that were like hippies. They were like, and then they had kids and they're like, fuck this. Like immediately, like a buddy of mine's mom who was like super fucking left wing, like full on leftist, she had kids and then the, the, the riots and covid and all the chaos.

3 (1h 26m 14s):
She's like, fuck this. Like it red pilled so many of those folks, they're just not talking about it. They don't talk about it outwardly because they're real uncomfortable with being ostracized and being yelled at. And especially with like, groups of their old friends that are single, that still live in Los Angeles. You know, especially if you like through certain ideological hubs. You know, like fucking Silver Lake. There's like these spots where you, you can't escape.

4 (1h 26m 38s):
Dude, I lived in Topanga Canyon for a year.

3 (1h 26m 40s):
Oh boy, that's a good one. and it

4 (1h 26m 41s):
Was like, yeah, that's a,

3 (1h 26m 43s):
I went to look at a house in top Topanga Canyon and the house had a tennis court. It was this beautiful house with a tennis court. I like, wow, that's really cool. So we're going through this, the house and we're checking out, you know, the kitchen and all this stuff. And then the neighbor just drops in and she goes, if you buy this house, you're gonna let us use the tennis court. Right. I go, what? She goes, the community uses the tennis court. I go, the community uses the tennis court that's in my fucking backyard. If I buy this house, I have to agree that like, maybe I can't play tennis. 'cause you're playing tennis. What the fuck are you talking about? Gotta

4 (1h 27m 15s):
Sign up on the list, man. Yeah, but

3 (1h 27m 16s):
She like, like got in my face with like beads on and shit, you know, like the whole deal. Yes. Like that. But she didn't say it like, are you going? Like, this is, the community is traditionally allowed. Like, we're like a really close knit group. You're gonna love living here. Yeah. Really nice people. But one thing I wanna tell you is like, we all like to get together and play tennis back there. Do you think that would be okay if you bought this house? That would be a different conversation. Yeah. I'd be like, maybe I like this lady. Maybe look, oh, Alice is out there playing tennis. Maybe we're friends. Maybe it's cool. Like if I lived next door to my buddy and he was over there playing tennis, I'd be like, what's going on man? What you doing? What's happening? It'd be fun. Yeah. It'd be like a cool thing. Yeah. To have your friends playing tennis in your yard.

3 (1h 27m 57s):
Maybe this should be fun, but you're going to let us use the, the community's gonna use your tennis court, right? With the

4 (1h 28m 2s):
Eyes wide open.

3 (1h 28m 3s):
Where's, what am I get to use yours? Can I use your kitchen? The fuck are you talking about lady? Exactly.

4 (1h 28m 7s):
I'm gonna go fishing by in your back of your yard. What are

3 (1h 28m 9s):
You saying? What are you saying?

4 (1h 28m 11s):
It's a wild, it's a wild place though, because it's like a time capsule. There's some of the old timey hippies I get along with. Yeah. It's like, I love those people. I grew up around those people.

3 (1h 28m 20s):
Unless they wanna use your tennis court. Yeah.

4 (1h 28m 22s):
Yeah. But then it's like, oh yeah. Can't use my tennis court. I lived it next to a guy. This guy, white dude from Georgia went by like an Indian, like spiritual name. Oh, nice. And he was, and this dude was, he, he, he set up a business called live water. So he was like repelling down like mountainsides gathering like water and then selling it to all the rich like housewives down in the Palisades. It was like living water. That was his like, I'm waiting for the scam scam deal.

3 (1h 28m 49s):
Was there a scam? And

4 (1h 28m 51s):
Oh yeah. The scam is like, it's completely dangerous. Right. But, but you know, he is like a well-meaning guy. And then I mean he would walk around like he was a duplex. We shared and I mean he would walk around just like no pants on, just totally naked. Really? Yeah. I was like, what's up man? Just talking to you. Like it's just a normal naked conversation. Naked, yeah. Normal conversation. And it's like, oh, Good to see you Mukon day. Like, were you

3 (1h 29m 12s):
Single at the

4 (1h 29m 12s):
Time? I was single at the time. So, and he has a girlfriend there. They were making like nut butters and selling this raw water, you

3 (1h 29m 17s):
Know? I bet were what they

4 (1h 29m 19s):
Were doing. And then they'd be like, yeah, you wanna come to a tea ceremony tonight? It's like, yeah, I'll check that out, man. We'll go to tea ceremony. And there was like a peaceful hippie out California culture. That was fine.

3 (1h 29m 34s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 29m 35s):
But the second you're like, yeah, now we want drag queens in schools. You're a bad person because your, your, your ancestors came from Europe. And by the way, we wanna destroy the whole society. That's when I'm like, I'm gonna tap out and now, now we're gonna fight about it.

3 (1h 29m 46s):
Well, you know how you know that this is, is an ideolog ideologically driven thing that, you know, you have this very clear group of opinions that you must adopt is the rejection of the gaze against groomers movement. Right. 'cause there's, they they attack those people root mercilessly. It's like, no. Like we are just homosexual men and we don't think that indoctrinating children the way you're doing is right. It's not right. Like what you're doing is fucked up. You're not supposed to be teaching kids about blow jobs Yeah.

4 (1h 30m 21s):
When they're

3 (1h 30m 21s):
Six. Yeah. They don't need to know about sucking dick when they're six. That's nuts. And anybody that wants to put that in schools and put these blatantly pornograph, and then here's the thing, this one drove me bananas when they said the don't say gay. That it's don't say gay law. And everybody kept repeating it. All these liberals that I know kept repeating. It says the don't say gay law. Nowhere in that law does it say don't say gay. Right. That's not what it's about. It's about introdu. and it's a very specific age group. It's about introducing sexually explicit books to kids that are a certain age. And they're calling it the don't say gay law. And I'm gonna say it, I'm gonna say, gay, gay, gay.

3 (1h 31m 2s):
Wow.

4 (1h 31m 3s):
Yay. Yeah.

3 (1h 31m 3s):
You

4 (1h 31m 4s):
Deserve a

3 (1h 31m 4s):
Prize. Yay. Yeah. Again, older women, no kids liberal. Right? Yeah. But that's not what the law said. And but for low information view viewers of the view, or listeners of M-S-N-B-C and the people that kept repeating that, that don't say gay law over and over, they're like, wow, you hear what they're doing in Florida. You can't say gay in school. Imagine being a gay kid and you're in that class and you can't even say you're gay. That's fucking nuts. Yeah. Like, Hey pal, we're talking about seven year olds. Yeah.

4 (1h 31m 33s):
It's like, yeah, there's, yeah. And you know, I did a bunch of reporting and the stuff that they're doing is, is like insane. It's not just, oh, we're teaching kids about sex. Okay, fine. Obviously they have to know certain like biological realities that, you know, sooner or later we all figure out. but it was like, you know, artificial penis packers, that was a story I did. They were teaching like Chicago public school kids and middle school how to wear, you know, like fake penis. Well, in all fairness. And then setting up with, with the kind of, with the hormone clinics. and it's like, but if

3 (1h 32m 2s):
They don't teach 'em that, who's gonna teach 'em? That's right.

4 (1h 32m 5s):
Yeah. The the older guy down the street who runs by in the van, you know. Yeah.

3 (1h 32m 9s):
Come on in. I've got lessons. Yeah.

4 (1h 32m 11s):
But, but it's like, you know, I, I worked a lot on the, on the, on the, you know, policy in Florida. And what it boils down to in Florida is a pretty simple thing. There's been such a politicization and radicalization of gender theory in schools. The governor wisely just said, you know what, let's just take that off the table. Let's focus on reading, writing, and math. Let's focus on a good civics curriculum so that we have real citizens that we're graduating from our public K through 12 schools. And then let's let families, churches and, and, and, and, and, you know, private society determine for themselves what they would like to teach their kids about these controversial issues.

4 (1h 32m 54s):
Just take it off the table. No, no instruction on gender ideology, no instruction on, you know, Of course, the explicit, you know, kind of sexual materials beyond some reasonable, you know, considerations. And this to me is fair. You can't teach religion in schools. You know, they delegate that to the private sector, to civil society, to parents and families, you know. And so unless we wanna have an all-out fight all the time over these issues, like why is it even necessary?

3 (1h 33m 26s):
It's not I have kids.

4 (1h 33m 27s):
Yeah. It's don't want them necessary. I, I don't, I don't feel like a need for the school to, to teach them about these things. I was like, we teach them at home. We talk about them. They naturally kind of learn and develop. And so I think that it is very wise to just say, let's take it off the table. Let's delegate this back to people in their personal lives. That seems like a solution that everyone should agree with.

3 (1h 33m 49s):
Completely logical. Unless you're dedicated to indoctrinating people. Yeah. Into your movement. What is the, don't say gay law. Let's, let's be specific about that just in case anybody tries to call us on this.

4 (1h 34m 2s):
So it was initially no, no teaching on gender identity and sexual orientation and K through three, which is which

3 (1h 34m 9s):
Super reasonable.

4 (1h 34m 10s):
It is super reasonable. And then it caused third grade, this massive uproar. And the legislator said, all right, you know, we're just gonna double down now it's K through 12. Ooh. They're saying no gender identity, no sexual orientation, no explicit, you know, kind of pornographic materials in K through 12. We're taking it totally off the table. And look, there is a reasonable argument to be made to say, okay, elementary school, I get it. Maybe a little bit in middle school, maybe in high school there's more latitude. I'm like, okay, that's a, a reasonable consideration. But it's also eminently reasonable to just say, we're taking it all off the table

3 (1h 34m 43s):
And just teach people

4 (1h 34m 44s):
And just teach people what they need to know to be successful in

3 (1h 34m 46s):
Life. Also, I am sorry, but I, I had good teachers growing up. I had quite a few that I remember. I have a, a science teacher from seventh grade that to this day, I, I think about fondly. He was a brilliant man. And he taught me about wonder. I think about that guy. I've also had a gang of fucking morons who taught me and I don't want that gang of morons teaching my children about biological sex or gender or homosexuality or heterosexuality or oral sex or anal sex. I don't wanna, nothing. No, thank you. don don't want you teaching them anything about any of those things. I don't want you te telling them that you're a zr.

3 (1h 35m 27s):
I don't want you pretending that you're a fox kin. don don't want any of that shit. If you are teaching history, I want you to teach what happened in 1943. I want you to teach math. This is how you count. This is how you divide. This is algebra. This is, this is what you're supposed to be doing. That's what you're hired for. If you're a drag queen and you're not teaching how to be a drag queen, eh, that's it. Exactly. You're not supposed to be, if somebody wants to take drag queen courses all for you. Yeah. But I don't think you should be reading stories to little kids. It just seems fucking Bazar. It's one more factor that kid has to deal with. Totally.

4 (1h 36m 7s):
Yeah. Yeah.

3 (1h 36m 8s):
For what reason? For

4 (1h 36m 9s):
For what reason? And, and so

3 (1h 36m 10s):
Inclusiveness.

4 (1h 36m 12s):
That's

3 (1h 36m 13s):
Bullshit. It's bullshit. Yeah. It's bullshit. Come on, man.

4 (1h 36m 15s):
Because it's not inclusive of many other perspectives. Traditional perspective or religious perspective of general kind of conservative perspective.

3 (1h 36m 23s):
Also, how much are you screening these drag queens?

4 (1h 36m 25s):
Well, not enough. Yeah.

3 (1h 36m 27s):
What is the, what is the odds? Someone who's a man who likes to dress in drag has other problems. I mean, I would I mean I don't, I'm not accusing all of them of having other problems. I'm sure some of 'em are just lovely people who like to wear women's clothes, have at it Totally have a good time. However, there's a possibility that you might be a kinky freak. Yeah. There's a real possibility. If you're putting fake eyelashes on and 10 inch heels and you're calling yourself Miss Wanda, and you are wearing fishnets and you tuck your dick into your butthole region and tape it down, or whatever they do is a, it's a possibility. You might be outta your fucking mind. And if

4 (1h 37m 3s):
You're doing a drag show at a, at a bar and a Castro, and that's a kind of subculture where they're all adults, they're all opting in, have a good time. Knock yourself out. Yeah. Like, totally fine. But it's like bringing that into the public schools with government funding with other people's kids. That's when I think reasonable people say no. Yeah.

3 (1h 37m 23s):
Reasonable people should say no. And the people that don't say no think that they're gonna be attacked for being bigoted if they do. But there's so many people that are like on the fence and scared and don't know what to do. And their kids are coming home with these wacky ideas and they're like, what the fuck do I do? What do I do? And if you try to go to the school board meetings, you get labeled a domestic terrorist. Yeah. This Isn insanity. Like you're, you're just enforcing indoctrination and you're just making sure that I comply. And that is a slippery slope, kids, because you might be getting your way right now doing this, and you might think that you should be able to get your way. But what if someone else gets into office?

3 (1h 38m 4s):
What if there's a war? What if there's chaos? What if we have a military dictatorship? You've already established the rules. No one's gonna give you those, those laws back. You've already set it so that the, the state and the government and the institutions can dictate personal behavior and how, how people are allowed to communicate. If you've done that, you've fucked up because now you've given power to the people that are in control. And if you pay any attention to donors, you realize the same donors donate to both people. So what have you done? You've, you've empowered the deep state to control your lives and make it easier to steal your money.

4 (1h 38m 37s):
Yeah. And, and, and the economics of it is also perilous. Right. All of these systems are functionally insolvent, right? Yeah. University system are federal budget, federal budget, wild. It's, it's just crazy. You don't have to be a, a, a math PhD to understand that this is not sustainable over the long term. And so, look, as a political person, what I always do is try to figure out what rifts and possibilities are opening in society and how can I use those to advance the political objectives that I have? That's how it works. And so when there's the kind of Hamas attacks and the universities reveal themselves to be crazy, or it's the capture of K through 12 schools and the gender ideologies going is going radical.

4 (1h 39m 23s):
You know, all of these problems also provide opportunities for, for correction, for reforms, for decentralizing some of these institutions and I think we're now teetering on a few different vectors towards what could be a radical restructuring of our society. You have this confrontation between Trump and Bidet, but really between Trump and the entire state apparatus that's trying to jail him and prevent him from running for president. You have a, a, a military budget and a federal budget more broadly that is running, you know, a trillion dollar deficits as far as the eye can see. You have a a k through or rather, a higher education system that is now, I think 1.6, $1.7 trillion in student debt that the government has absorbed that's ready to blow up at any time.

4 (1h 40m 11s):
The 2020 was a wake up call for many people, the next wake up call is gonna be 20, 20, a hundred times over. And so those of us and those people who are just arranging their personal lives that are listening should be figuring out what they, what to do, how to best position themselves to be successful for their families, for their careers, for whatever they're working on. And those of us who want to see deeper changes, you know, we're all preparing, we're all getting ready to say when the house of cards falls over and it's revealed that none of this is sustainable. The fundamentals of our country, institutional, financial, political cannot hold.

4 (1h 40m 53s):
And they can't be covered over with ideology for anymore. You know, we have to have responsible civic-minded people that are ready to take leadership again. and I think that it may not be this election cycle, it may not be in a year, it may not be in two years, but by any vector, if you talk to people who really know, we're heading towards a big shift. and I hope that we can emerge on the other side. Just freeing ourselves from a lot of this ideological capture that I think is hurting people and hurting our country.

3 (1h 41m 27s):
I couldn't agree more. And just leave people the fuck alone and, and stop using this as a vector of control. 'cause that's what they're doing. And it's also,

4 (1h 41m 36s):
There's a problem with that, though. The ideology leave me alone. The kind of philosophical statement is correct. I, I believe in it. It's a kind of civic Republican ideal. It's spend, the American way is give people the maximum autonomy to their lives, delegate to civil society as much as you can. But we don't live in that world anymore. We have a, a, a massive federal bureaucracy. We have these huge institutions that control the culture. And so I I, if you're arguing to be left alone, you're always gonna be run over by people who don't wanna leave you alone. The solution is not to then, you know, assume it and impose your vision. But you at least have to have people who, who are willing to fight the public fight.

4 (1h 42m 18s):
Because, you know, most people wanna be left alone, they deserve that. But we need to have a leadership class kind of counter elite capable of taking over these institutions that can then adopt the, the policies and, and administer the centralized institutions to protect the average person. The average person is not gonna read queer theory and, and, and understand what's happening and fight, fight the good fight. But people who are involved in political life, I think we have a duty to provide protection for the average person. The average person is calling for physical protection, protection of their livelihood, protection of their reputation, protection of their kids, protection of their institutions.

4 (1h 43m 0s):
Do you see anyone that is directly speaking to that need and offering a plausible vision for how that could be accomplished? I think very few people are thinking in those terms. And to me, that's a shame.

3 (1h 43m 12s):
Well it's also a shame that people that have these ideas are not willing to run for office because running for office is such a shit show. It's, and you see what happens when anyone runs for office. It's just these attacks are merciless and ruthless and it's all in your character, in your past. And we saw it with Kavanaugh, you see, you saw it with Joe Bidet, you see it with everybody. You've

4 (1h 43m 34s):
Been

3 (1h 43m 34s):
Through it. Yeah. Everybody's been through it. But I, don and I, obviously I'm not running for office, but when they're trying to attack you and they're trying to do that, that discourages so many people that would be great leaders. But it's also now been accepted as a part of the political process.

4 (1h 43m 50s):
It, but it's always been part, part of the political process. Yes. If you go back to the history of the founding of the country, you can read Jefferson's letters and he's bitching about the press, slandering his character. Mm. Like for decades, right. He's writing, he's still bitter about things that happened when he was, you know, dying in the early 18 hundreds. He's still bitter about like some slanderous, you know, journalist who was impugning his character 30 years prior. And so wild, look, I I I've been through it to, to a certain extent, you've been through it. Like that's the price, that's the price of admission. It is. And so I think rather than lamenting the fact that it's, it's this way, we need people and, and you know, I certainly adopt this attitude and I think Governor DeSantis in Florida has really achieved this and demonstrated this.

4 (1h 44m 35s):
You know, remember Covid, they were calling him all sorts of names, you know? Yeah. The, the I mean, they, they, they fired up the press machine against him in a really brutal way. And as conservatives, I've estimated that we take somewhere between 101 and a thousand to one negative to positive stories in the press. That's just the ratio that we, that we have to live with a hundred to one negative to positive. But what, what, what he taught me and I think it's a, a valuable lesson for more people to understand is he's saying, look, the people are smarter than the press. And so when we're fighting, when we're raising the issues, when we're getting attacked, when we're driving forward something that's the right thing to do, you'll be rewarded by the people later.

4 (1h 45m 17s):
And so he won a very narrow election his first time. He went through all of this controversy with Disney, with COVID, with gender, with, you know, history, curriculum, whatever. It's the people of Florida delivered him a huge 20 point victory. Unprecedented. And to me, that's a sign that when you take ownership, when you take courage, when you take the hits, and when you do the right thing, people are smart enough to sift through the lies, the propaganda, the suppression, the censorship, and reward you. And you know, I I, I've certainly seen that in my own experience, you know, dealing with hostile media, dealing with threats, dealing with, you know, people screaming at my kids, you know, I mean like real, like intimidating things.

4 (1h 46m 1s):
And you have to say, you know, you have to make prudent decisions. You have to protect the people around you. You have to make sure that you can, you know, not get wiped off the board. But then once you get past that, what I found, when you get past that initial barrage, when you get through the gauntlet, you feel freedom. You feel this incredible sense of you've survived, you've gotten to the other side, and now people can't hurt you because they've tried, they've failed. And now you have the freedom to speak your mind, the freedom to do what you want, the freedom to chart your own path. But until you get through that barrage, don don't think that you're free at all. And so people that have wealth, people that have power, people that have prestige are sometimes desperately holding onto that.

4 (1h 46m 46s):
They want to protect it as much as they can. But I think what happens is they become, they go through life and they get to a point where they're, oh, finally speak out. If this happens, if that happens, if the cost is lower, you end up kind of wasting away your life and your opportunities. And so my goal and for the past year especially, is to radicalize America's elites to show them the problems that our country is facing and that to summon them to courageous action, to fix it. Because as we get people who have something to lose when they start talking, people listen. And so I, you know, I live on a small farm in rural Washington state.

4 (1h 47m 27s):
There's only so much I can do personally, but certainly with, you know, the book that I wrote, with the articles that I'm doing with the media engagement that I'm trying to drive, what I found is that the attitude among America's elites finance, tech, entertainment, have changed dramatically in the last few years. Yes. And we just have to get them over that hump so that they're saying the things that they tell you in private and tell me in private, when you have those conversations, I would just recommend just say, Hey, what about saying that publicly

3 (1h 47m 58s):
People don't wanna lose their jobs,

4 (1h 47m 60s):
But these are people who are, you know, who are you know, they don't have jobs. They're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're titans of finance. They're, they're people in prestigious positions. They're kind of university professors with tenure protections. People are

3 (1h 48m 13s):
Scared. They really are. They're scared of repercussions. H

4 (1h 48m 16s):
How, how do we get them to cross over that fear? We have to

3 (1h 48m 19s):
Do you think to get less fearful? We have to make it more common. and I think these conversations hap happen and more of them happen, and more people listen to them and it changes people's perspective. And they realize this is kind of dangerous. And that there's, there's real urgency in involved here like this, this could really go sideways for us. And there's a lot of factors that are trying to force it into going sideways. And not all of 'em are domestic. There's a lot going on with social media influence that's 100% manufactured. There's manufactured arguments, manufactured dissent. There's, there's a lot of like manufactured conflict that happens online that we are, have documented very clearly.

3 (1h 48m 60s):
It's coming from Russian troll farms. It's coming from various different eastern block countries. It's coming from China. It's coming from all over the place. and it, it has an effect on us whether we like it or not. and it certainly has an effect on young people. It certainly has an effect on self-censorship. It certainly has an effect on stifling descent. It ha it has an impact. They attack people and they, they attack people like with thousands of trolls and they know what they're doing. Yeah. And it's very effective. And if you pay attention to your comments, you're gonna get run over by it. And it's, yeah.

4 (1h 49m 31s):
Never read the comments.

3 (1h 49m 32s):
Can't read 'em. Yeah. Can't read 'em. Some of 'em are nonsense. I read comments on other people's stuff. Sometimes when someone writes something controversial and I'll just go, oh, that seems crazy to say, lemme go to that person. And that's a, you know, a BZ 2, 2, 2 1 5 6. Yeah. That's a fake person. Yeah. It's a fake person that got a Twitter profile and now they're just, it's

4 (1h 49m 52s):
Like a guy in a eastern block country Yeah. With a thousand phones that he's kind of

3 (1h 49m 56s):
Yeah. It might not even be that anymore. I believe it's probably ai. Yeah. I mean with the, the ubiquitous use of chat GPT and all these different things. You could easily attack a tweet in a, in a progressive fashion and, and you could give it parameters of how to attack it and what to say. And you could distribute that in mass. Give me 45 different versions of this attack and they'll give you 45 different versions of it.

4 (1h 50m 18s):
I think that's probably true, but I think that, in my opinion, I think we overestimate the, the potential influence of kind of foreign operators. Foreign operators don't know the language of American ideologies.

3 (1h 50m 34s):
You don't think that's easy to learn?

4 (1h 50m 36s):
No. I, I think it's actually a little difficult to learn. 'cause if, even if you look at kind of Chinese kind of CCTV, which is the national Chinese broadcaster, you look at the propaganda that they're actually trying to push. It's like awful movies. It's like not at

3 (1h 50m 49s):
All seen movies. Their movies are amazing.

4 (1h 50m 50s):
The movies are amazing. Yeah. And those are commercial enterprises. But I, I, I actually think it puts the real kind of villains off the hook. It's not them, it's really us. It's the people who run our institutions domestically who set policy for YouTube. There's certain YouTube and Yeah. And, and other, and other platforms think that's

3 (1h 51m 7s):
Probably the bigger factor.

4 (1h 51m 8s):
I think it's a bigger factor

3 (1h 51m 9s):
Because if you can have people organically talking about things, which you do on Twitter. Yes. And in when you see the things that are happening on Twitter, so a lot of it's very distasteful. You'll see some very racially charged, frankly, racist arguments about things just openly discussed for sure. And people agreeing with 'em openly. And it's like, whoa. You know, lumping people into one gigantic group of this or that. And it's just like, man, but the opportunity for other people to successfully counter those, those statements exist too. Yes. The opportunity for people to jump in and say, this is why what you're saying is so fucking stupid. You know, take into consideration that, take into consideration this.

3 (1h 51m 50s):
You don't know about that. You don't know about this. What you're saying is nonsense. Yeah. And that's a whole part of human discourse that's being ignored when people are censoring in favor of blocking hate speech. The problem with blocking hate speech is you block the, the potential condemnation of hate speech. You block the potential intellectual battle between morons who believe stupid shit and smart people who are motivated to make them look dumb. And this is all good for the viewer. This is all good for people. The young minds and the people that are easily influenced and the people that are on the fence and the people that hadn't taken into consideration this perspective or that perspective. That's what free speech is supposed to be all about.

3 (1h 52m 31s):
The, the answer to bad speech has always been better speech. It's always been the case. But when you got people that will ban your account, if you use a person's name that they used to have when they were a man, but now they're a woman, so you dead name them. So you, you made up this thing at the same time where you have the fucking Taliban on Twitter. You are insane. You're an insane person. Exactly. And Elon has done a service for the entire human race by purchasing that platform. and I do not say that lightly. I do not say that flippantly him purchasing Twitter is one of the most important things that's ever happened to us in terms of pushback, in terms of just recognizing, like, this is insane to tell people that they have to abide by your insanely rigid ideology.

3 (1h 53m 29s):
That doesn't make sense. It's not logical. And if they don't, they can no longer participate in the discussion. They're removed from the town square. That's they bonkers.

4 (1h 53m 40s):
I, I remember even, you know, Andrew Tate, who I I think is like obviously very, you know, self-evidently a bad person. Don't don don't think that he's a, a good model for young men. But I remember, you know, he didn't call for terrorist violence. He didn't, you know, say anything, you know, extremely racist. don don't think that I saw at least. and I and, and I remember just, it was like one day he's nuked from every online platform simultaneously.

3 (1h 54m 9s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 54m 9s):
And I say what? You don't have to like the guy, you don't have to agree with the guy. But the fact that all of these companies can set off a little cascade where you can disappear someone from the internet overnight. Oh,

3 (1h 54m 21s):
Milo OUIs is,

4 (1h 54m 23s):
Mylo was the first one.

3 (1h 54m 24s):
Yeah. They really silenced him. That guy was a powerful voice. And

4 (1h 54m 28s):
He was from, from

3 (1h 54m 29s):
The discourse also in real life. Very nice. In real life. Really hilarious. Very smart, very nice. Every time I met him he was cool. He was playing a character. and I think there's a lot of drugs involved as well. Yeah. But he was certainly playing a character that had good points. Yeah. He was playing this character that was this like right wing gay guy who liked to talk about sex and drugs. And I was like, this guy's fascinating. But they decided that he was problematic and they fucking erased him. They memory hold him. That guy was on Bill Maher and Bill Maher compared him to Christopher Hitchens. Remember that? Wow.

4 (1h 55m 7s):
I didn't

3 (1h 55m 8s):
Know that. Yeah. And then he got attacked by some other guy on the show, told him, fuck you. And like there was a lot of, a lot of Fuck you with that guy. There's

4 (1h 55m 13s):
A lot of drama.

3 (1h 55m 14s):
But that's what he liked. He liked that. and it was playing to his favor until they erased him from everywhere, you know? And I think they erased him particularly the first part was his criticism of Ghostbusters. And then he was criticizing the new all female cast of Ghostbusters saying how sexist it is. And every man's a moron and the women save the day and how ridiculous it is. And then he got into it with Leslie Jones. So Leslie Jones and him got into it and I think he retweeted or like something that people had said that was comparing Leslie Jones, what was it exactly?

3 (1h 55m 54s):
I don't remember what it was exactly, but it was something racist or something gross or something unflattering something. Sure. And you know, and people were tweeting it at her and they were blaming him and then they, they got rid of him. He's gone.

4 (1h 56m 8s):
Did they just say, oh, it's mobilizing harassment or something? Oh no.

3 (1h 56m 11s):
That was, that's, I'm, I can't believe I forgot this. It's what started is him justifying him himself being sexually molested by older men when he was young. And he was saying on my show that he was the predator. He goes, trust me, I was the predator.

4 (1h 56m 28s):
He was the seducing. Yeah. You know, First

3 (1h 56m 31s):
Of all, anybody who doesn't think that myo uou is gay is outta their fucking mind. Like the You think that's choice. That choice. That dude's fucking gay.

4 (1h 56m 38s):
He's like baked in by the universe.

3 (1h 56m 39s):
He is, yeah. That is like the prime example that I always throw in the face of people who, it's usually for religious reasons who are unwilling to accept biological reality. Like, here's some biological reality for you. You wanna know this. The first video ever captured of humpback whales mating was just recently filmed. And they're both male.

4 (1h 57m 6s):
Nice.

3 (1h 57m 8s):
So the first evidence that we have is that real? Is that true of humpback whales engaging in sexual intercourse? Is gay sex

4 (1h 57m 15s):
Humpback, huh? Yeah. They had to go

3 (1h 57m 17s):
Real. Listen, humpbacks. Humpbacks are mammals. Yeah. Humpbacks are intelligent. Humpbacks likely are gay. There's probably, if they exist in us, why would they not exist in other intelligent mammals that are on earth with us? Like dolphins? I'm sure there's gay dolphins, there's probably gay orcas. It's probably normal. It's probably, there's a percentage in every population that's gay. Who gives a fuck. The, the point is that like, that guy's gay, right? And he claims that he was the predator and everyone was like, oh my God, he's normalizing pedophilia. If he had just tried that today, it would've been a minor attracted person.

4 (1h 57m 57s):
He would be celebrated I mean he'd be, he'd

3 (1h 57m 59s):
Be, but this guy was minor attracted and I was a minor and it was

4 (1h 58m 3s):
Fine. He come back as a drag queen.

3 (1h 58m 4s):
But he would say like, now if, like literally in the amount of time from him being canceled to today, that statement is not nearly as controversial. Yeah. Isn't that wild?

4 (1h 58m 15s):
Yeah. And, and look, you don't have to agree or disagree with the statement. That's irrelevant. It's something that is within the bounds. Look, if you're calling for the, like the Harvard example, the genocide of all Jews around the world, you should be banned from social media platforms. Yes. That is a, a, a prudent limit that I think we can all agree on. But on more nuanced issues or more I mean, even if you take it at face face value, I think he's probably going for shock value.

3 (1h 58m 43s):
100%. but it also, this crazy sense is an anecdotal story about how, and it was on another podcast that I believe he said this, that it plays a very important role in young gay men to have an older gay mentor. I, I have no fucking dog in this race. Yeah. I don't, you know, I don't know. But I do know that I feel very differently about a, a sexual predator that's a man that targets girls. Like if I found out that a football coach was targeting young 14 and 15-year-old girls, I would be furious if I found out a hot teacher, usually from Florida with a pushup bra was banging all the high school football kids.

3 (1h 59m 28s):
I'm laughing.

4 (1h 59m 28s):
It's a little different. Yeah.

3 (1h 59m 29s):
I think it's funny. Yeah. You know why? 'cause I think those kids are gonna be fine. Yeah. He's

4 (1h 59m 33s):
They're gonna be legends. Yeah. Few

3 (1h 59m 35s):
Of those kids are gonna, Zach Galvan had a fucking amazing joke. One of them died, his friends high fived him to death. Oh God. Yeah. I think that's Zach. Yeah. But,

4 (1h 59m 46s):
But this is because people wanna pretend that there's no difference between men and women. Right. That's all it is. It's, you know, it's like everyone you know, wants to pretend. That's true. It's obviously not true. And Of course the football coach who's like a pervert going against go, you know, you know, with the young girls that that's a totally different scenario.

3 (2h 0m 4s):
It is a different scenario. but it also, the lady who's blowing all the high school football kids also shouldn't be a teacher. Yeah. Yeah. Get her outta fired immediately. Get, get rid of her. She should be doing porn or something. Yeah. But the point is, it's like if he's talking about his life, that and, and saying that this was his choice and that he wanted this, the, the issue is not with him. The issue is with the man who did that to him. Right. Right. So he's not, he's literally talking about his own personal experience. That memory hold him. It's not, he's saying, he's not saying, Hey, I should be able to go to high schools and pick up 14 year olds. 'cause they want it.

3 (2h 0m 45s):
Okay. Yeah. Now we're talking a different thing. Now we're talking about a guy who's advocating pedophilia. Right. This is different. We're talk. He's, he was merely talking about his own life and that's how Rabbit everybody was to get rid of him. and it was at that point, effective and I think that became a problem because once it became effective, then they became emboldened. It's like the Alex Jones argument when people say, yeah, ban Alex Jones. Like, and everybody's like, Hey, hey, hey. This is a fucking very slippery slope. Yeah. Because if you want to ban everybody who's made disinformation and put it, put it out publicly. How's Rachel Maddow still on? Yeah. How is she still on? Everybody's seen that video of her talking about the Covid vaccine. That's insanity.

3 (2h 1m 25s):
The

4 (2h 1m 25s):
Government I mean. Yeah.

3 (2h 1m 26s):
How are they still on I I mean? How, how many different stories were incorrect? Not apologizing for what he did, what Alex did. He doesn't apologize for it. I mean he apologizes for it, but he feels deep remorse that he did it. He's just like overwhelmed by it. But that getting rid of that guy is a slippery slope. Yeah. And no matter what you think about what he said, you can't support that. You gotta let people sort it out the way to find out if, let's say he says there's a false flag and some attack somewhere. The way to find out if he's telling the truth is to have people investigate it. If you say that Operation Northwoods was a document drawn up by the joint and signed by the joint chiefs of staff that was going to attack Guantanamo Bay and blame it on the Cubans to start a war.

3 (2h 2m 17s):
And you say that on your show, people go, you're a fucking crazy person. How are you allowing these No, no, no. You have to be able to have someone come on and say, Hey, actually this is true. And then you realize like, oh wait a minute. Some conspiracies are real. And if you silence this one guy that calls out all of 'em, 'cause he fucked up on one, you are also limiting his ability to call out the ones that are legitimate. And you're talking about a guy who's doing this All day long every day. That's all he does. Yeah. All he does is,

4 (2h 2m 47s):
And he's out there. I mean he is an out there personality. He's out

3 (2h 2m 49s):
There, it's twice fun. But he is out there talking about the World Economic Forum. I've said this a hundred times and I'll say it again. He told me about Jeffrey Epstein over a decade before anybody was, was in the news. He was telling me that there was this opera, this was operation. And they take these guys with high profile public figures and a lot of politicians and they compromise 'em with young girls. It's like, what? On an island? Yeah. What is this fucking a, b, c after school movie. Yeah. That's crazy. That sounds nuts. And then now everybody knows it's true. And there's been a ton of those. Yeah. From him infiltrating Bohemian Grove and catching these fucking wackos and heads of state burning an effigy in front of an owl.

3 (2h 3m 31s):
God. Like what the fuck? That's real. The thing the video he did with John Ronson in the nineties. So it's like all of this stuff at a certain point in time needs to be out there. And people need to find out what's real and what's not real. What's real. And the, the only way to find out what's real's, not to silence everybody who says something that's incorrect. It's to let people talk it out. So when someone gets on there and says, the Earth's Hollow and this fucking aliens inside shooting laser beams. Let's, let's like talk to geologists. Yeah. And have them explain to you that they would be boiling in lava. Like they don't live in the center of the earth. We know what the earth's made outta, we know all the planets. This is how we know, this is why we know the earth is round.

3 (2h 4m 12s):
'cause every fucking body of mass as it's spinned around it, it be, it takes on that fucking form. All the planets, every one of 'em. This one's not unique.

4 (2h 4m 20s):
There's also an element of, this is part of American folklore. Yes. If you believe that the world is flat, it's obviously false. Any thinking person will conclude that this is a ridiculous, crazy thing to believe. And yet having a group of, you know, flat earthers in our broader society provided that they're not like given power over, you know, the NASA or something adds texture and rich richness to our culture, even if they're totally wrong. And so what we're having is we're trying to align a discourse rationally within these strict ideological bounds. It actually ends up breaking this great proliferation of culture. Some of it, which is good, some of bad, some of it's crazy, some of it's insightful.

4 (2h 5m 2s):
But the, I think that the real calculation that we have to make is not even a free speech issue. It's not really even about censorship. It's about power and the distribution of power. If you stack up all of the people who have been kind of nuked from orbit online on the, on the right, and then on the left you have a graph that looks so out like this. Yeah. And so you have to then say, well why is that? Who's making the decisions? How are decisions being made? And who are they going after? What views are they trying to suppress? And so again, getting it out of the realm of the abstract debate and into the realm of, of a political analysis gets us to this uncomfortable point. This was happening during Trump.

4 (2h 5m 42s):
Yeah. Trump was president and this was still happening. Yeah. And so we have to figure out why this is the case and go and disrupt it. And look, I I I think that you want have more views, more opportunities, more subcultures, you know, more quirky people, more you know, you know people that are way out there. My my old, you know, naked neighbor in Topanga, like Yeah. Let the guy speak. Agreed, agreed. If he believes that the, you know, that we have to have live water and Yeah. And it's like, nor the average person is not gonna be persuaded and the view is not correct. But the, the broader culture suffers when everyone is fearing that if they step outside of the box, that they're gonna get crushed.

4 (2h 6m 22s):
And, and, and, and conservatives, you know, we get all worked up about it because look, every political faction has their fringe. We have fringe people in our coalition or on the outsides of our coalition. But you have to figure out what's, you know, harmful and what's relatively harmless. And a lot of these folk beliefs and superstitions, if you take them not to condemn people as stupid or ignorant or uneducated, but you actually talk to people and try to get a sense of why do you believe this? It's usually because they feel a sense of powerlessness. And even the WEF kind of thinking they wanna believe that there's someone out there that is calling the shots, that is the, the problem that is controlling the society because they feel that just by identifying a single point, they have a sense of understanding, a sense of power.

4 (2h 7m 14s):
I actually don't think that that's the case. I think it's, it's, it's, it's, it's misleading. don don't think it's the right way to, to look at it. But I try to also forgive people to say people are entitled to their superstitions. We all have superstitions and we want a society that where superstitions are eradicated. But you actually end up getting rid of a lot of the, the texture and a lot of the variety of culture. When you try to have a hygienic treatment of culture, you treat culture like a disease, like a Petri dish culture. And look, I I I think like go as far out as you want. Like go wild with it. You know, be respectful, follow the rules, you know, maintain some core commitments.

4 (2h 7m 57s):
But, you know, I, I'm always fascinated with those characters. I lived in Topanga, I lived in Berkeley. Like you meet these people all over. Yeah. You've lived in these kind of places. Yeah, I have.

3 (2h 8m 7s):
For the, for

4 (2h 8m 7s):
The 99, 9 times out of a hundred they're harmless and they should just be tolerated and, and, and it,

3 (2h 8m 13s):
Despite their abuse. Well, I think it's an important part of how I grew up. I I lived in San Francisco from age seven to 11 and we lived in a super gay neighborhood. We, our downstairs stairs neighbor used to, they were these gay guys that would get stoned with my aunt and they would play bongo's naked 'cause she could play bongos with naked with these gay guys. They didn't give a fuck about her. They were just into playing bongos naked. and it would just get really high. and it was the anti-war movement days, you know? And so I, I lived around that. And then I moved to Florida to Gainesville, which is very conservative. and it was really interesting to watch, like, I've talked about this before, but I had this friend who was Cuban, his name was Candy, and his dad was like super homophobic and he was so mad.

3 (2h 8m 57s):
He slammed the paper down at the table and he's like, these fags wanna get married. And I was like, what? I was like, what do you care? Like that's so weird. They're

4 (2h 9m 6s):
Just playing the bongos.

3 (2h 9m 7s):
It was so weird when he said it, I was like, what I I mean. I remember very clearly I was 11 at the time and I was just blown away. I'm like, do you not know any gay people? This is crazy. Like, what do you care? Like if you're not gay, why do you care if they get married? But I didn't say it 'cause I was 11. I was like, I just wanted to be quiet. But I re I it burned in my head that, that I had gone from San Francisco in the 1970s, which was like this very open-minded, hippie dominated culture of music and art. And then all of a sudden I was in Gainesville, Florida and I was around this guy. He was angry that gay people wanted to get married.

4 (2h 9m 44s):
I think the question, if you look at the, the culture left of, of San Francisco at that time, I think it's always a question of proportion. You can have a successful, interesting, functioning society where you have a portion of people who are the, you know, getting stone and, and bang in the bon goes, okay, fine. The problem is though, that when it becomes out, out of proportion, when that ideology, that kind of elimination of prohibition or limits or constraints, becomes the dominant policymaking regime. Right. That works when it's a counterculture. Right. Right. The kind of left wing. And look, I come from the left. I was a radical leftist.

4 (2h 10m 25s):
I was a grams chian Marxist, you know, so, so I I know that worldly what made

3 (2h 10m 30s):
Intimately you take a turn.

4 (2h 10m 33s):
You know, I wanted to get into politics. My, my, my political formation was from my, my father's side Italian relatives. They were all Unreconstructed Sian communists. And so that was like my political upbringing. I remember going to visit my aunts and uncles and, and seeing like the books on their shelf. And it's like, oh, they have this beautiful collection of bound books and I talk to my aunt and I say, oh, what is this aunt? See what, what is this book? And it's like, oh, this is the collected works of Lenin. You know? Wow. Not ironically, not as a historical thing, but as this is the father of our revolution. And so that was my political formation. I went to get my undergraduate degree at Georgetown with the intention of being involved in left-wing politics.

4 (2h 11m 15s):
The first thing that that, that really kind of disillusioned me was finding out that left-wing politics in the United States is not for the common man. It's not to uplift the, the, the, the downtrodden. It's about maintaining it's their own status and prestige with the institutions. It's like, you know, it's like a McKinsey consultant kind of worldview with the trappings of the left. It's the Harvard student who's wearing the Palestinian Kaia who then goes on to, you know, become an investment banker. And it's like, to me it was so phony I mean, it was a profoundly phony and empty political movement run by the sons and daughters of American elites for their own benefit.

4 (2h 12m 2s):
The second thing that really changed me, I spent five years, well first I traveled around the world making documentaries. I saw how Marxists and communist governments actually work out in practice, not great. And then I made a film for PBS of all places looking at three of America's poorest cities. And my by then kind of center left views, which was, oh, you know, the, the great society, you know, public welfare programs trying to help people. When you actually see how those programs manifest in the south side of Memphis, south side of Youngstown, south side of Stockton, California, the poorest places in the country, you realize that many of those ideals that are presented to you as care, compassion, concern, equality, you know, reparations for, for, for our racial past are at best cynical and at worst, deeply to destructive to the people that they're supposed to help.

4 (2h 13m 1s):
And so, I I I, I spent so much time getting to know people and, and thinking about people's lives and then how politics affects them. And you, you realize that the, the project of the left is a, a dis human disaster. Even if rationally speaking, it should produce something that is good. And then the final change was in the runup. And then after 2020, i, I I mean 2020 radicalized me because you realized how profound this cultural capture is. And you realize that the consequences are no longer abstract. They're no longer just destroying, you know, poor neighborhoods.

4 (2h 13m 42s):
And in, in south Memphis, let's say, that are totally run by the state, but actually it's now proliferated to the middle class as the upper classes. This is something that wants total domination. And so I I I, I got canceled out of my documentary career. Once I became known as a conservative, I lost funding. I lost relationships. I lost broadcast distribution. And then I was like, I'm out, kind of launched into the wilderness. Like, all right, well that career is done. What do I do next? And then say, all right, well let's, let's get into politics. Let's use some of the skills that I've developed as a filmmaker. I'm not a traditional conservative, like I'm not a college republican, don don't own a bow tie, but I serve a bow tie.

4 (2h 14m 23s):
I think you have to have a bow tie. But if you're a

3 (2h 14m 24s):
Gay guy, you're gonna have a bow tie and be super left.

4 (2h 14m 27s):
That's true. There's like, there's nuance to it. But what I realize is that the, the conservative principles are sometimes expressed awkwardly or sometimes articulated poorly, but there's some deep truths that need to be resurrected and recovered for us to be successful again. And so I threw in my lot with people that I would never have imagined being friends and allies and colleagues with, you know, growing up. It's like, you know, this, this, this huge shift politically and I think it's been helpful because if you know how your political opponents think, you have a huge advantage.

4 (2h 15m 7s):
And the, the left kind of elite kinda academic leftist in the United States have no idea what conservatives think. They have zero Curiosity about it. And so that affords us a kind of advantage 'cause they don't know how we think, how we operate, what our principles are. They just assume the worst and, and I. And so I kind of wake up every day thinking about the people that are around me and saying, you know, in a, in an odd way, you're fighting for people that are actually voiceless. You know, the, the left is the dominant voice of the country. Of all of our institutions, of all of our tech companies. The voice that really is voiceless are the people who are supposedly the oppressors.

4 (2h 15m 48s):
You have this book that just came out, white rural rage, you know, bullshit, you know, rural people in the United States are not angry enough, frankly. And so I just try to think in those terms always. And, and, and, and I've taken over some of the tactics of the left, some of the, some of the kind of maneuvers and some of my activist work, which I think has been helpful. But, but I I I just have this visceral, you know, just, just this visceral anger at people who have truly inherited positions of power and prestige.

4 (2h 16m 32s):
They give all this rhetoric about helping the, the, the oppressed, the underprivileged, the whatever's the kind of term of the day, but they're actually playing a cynical game to maintain their own status. I I I, I find that a betrayal of true left principles and I don't think that I would be where I were today, where I am today. Had I not seen that betrayal up close and personal and, and, and really, you know, wanna fight. I wanna destroy that. I wanna take all of those people who are selling a bill of goods to the people who are struggling in this country under these principles of diversity, equity, and inclusion.

4 (2h 17m 13s):
But it's just about having a tenured position, having a feather beded job, being able to do the activist work on the public dollar. Not creating anything of value, not helping anyone but themselves. I, I I I think that that is, it's such a betrayal of the principles of the left, but really the principles of the country

3 (2h 17m 34s):
And I think the way you're explaining it, particularly in the, the, the desire to have a richness of culture and not have rigid rules, and to have the openness to have basically anybody just be be who you are, but recognize that being captured by this ideology that supposedly supports you. It's doing it for its own means. It's doing it for a, a very specific purpose. And it's not doing it to support you. It's using these ideas and principles as camouflage to sneak in through your defenses. And it's dangerous and it's creepy and it's weird how effective it is.

3 (2h 18m 17s):
And that's why I'm really happy that you're out there and I'm really happy that you can lay it down so articulately and express, especially coming from your background of being a, a guy who grew up that way, grew up leftist, to be able to express it. I think you have a very unique position in that regard. So I'm happy that you're out there.

4 (2h 18m 33s):
Appreciate that. Yeah. And, and likewise, I mean, what I think is so special about what you do is that you're, you're talking about culture and politics, society, business for people who aren't in that bubble. Like I operate in a political bubble every day. Right? Right. But, but what you've built and I think it's a testament to the possibilities of the internet. You know, You don't have to be a, a, B, C-N-B-C-C-B-S, you know, talking head. You don't have to have the massive studio lights and the eight layers of makeup. You're doing something that's real. And people have, have really responded to that. and I think that it's a reflection of something that we need more of. We have an artificial culture that is trying to take over Yeah.

4 (2h 19m 15s):
But

3 (2h 19m 15s):
Propped up by corporations. Exactly. And the people that are talking about these things aren't even necessarily interested in these things. And that also resonates with the people that listen and watch. Like, I don't have people on that I don't want to talk to. I just have people on that I'm only interested in talking to. And if you can do that and you're actually interested, that's contagious. And these, these principles that we're talking about, and this, this thing that you're, the way you're laying it out, it's important for people even to consider themselves leftist, to just consider what you're saying because it's for you too. It's for everybody that we can't let this happen.

3 (2h 19m 56s):
It's for all ideas. It's for gay people, straight people, trans people, white people, black people, Asians. It's for everybody. The reason the founding fathers of this country set all these checks and balances in place is 'cause they didn't want anyone to get total complete control over the people. And that's what's happening right now. And if You don't wake up to it and you think it's okay because your side is winning, you're actually anti-American.

4 (2h 20m 24s):
That's right. And and it creates this winner take all danger. Yeah. and I don't wanna see either side have that complete control because either, either side, that's either side. That's not what we want. That's not good with the country. It's not good. It's not good. We need to have a healthy left and a healthy right.

3 (2h 20m 39s):
Yeah. And, and, and healthy is the right perspective. There are people that are very compassionate, kind, warm-hearted people that are on the right. And there's people that are very compassionate, kind, warm-hearted people that are on the left. And because they have this idea in their head that they're on the good side and these people are on the bad side, you don't consider that these are just human beings that think about things differently than you. And that is the only way we're all gonna get along is if we realize there's just human beings that think about things differently. And we should be able to engage with those people peacefully. It used to be you could sit down with a conservative person or you could sit down with a liberal person and you might not agree with them, but you could have a, a friendly discussion.

3 (2h 21m 22s):
and it doesn't have to be a hate-filled attack on your very humanity. 'cause you know, because you don't think you know X or Y. It's just like, that's not good for anybody. People

4 (2h 21m 33s):
Don't even wanna debate. I don don't know if, if you've come across it, but seventies, eighties, nineties, there was this culture of debate left and right. Got together. Yeah. They hashed it out. I, I've challenged people to debates. I've been, you know, people try to set up debates and it's like we don't even talk, even in a confrontational way. Conflict of, of visions. Yeah. It's like everyone in their corner, everyone's trying to, to, to make the play. and I, I think, I think that's too bad. I think we need more, actually more friction is good. The more public friction engagement debate, we'll get to that point where it's like, all right, we're up on stage debating, but then we go to the green room and we could talk about kids, music, sports, whatever it

3 (2h 22m 14s):
Is, everything. And just be a nice person. It's not that hard to do. Yeah. It's not that hard to do. It's rewarding. It's good for everybody. Christopher, I appreciate you man. Thank you very much for being here and being so articulate about this. It's, it's very enjoyable to listen to you. You're, you're on top of it and I think you make some great points. Thanks for having me. I appreciate you. Alright. Tell everybody your social and all that jazz where they can Sure,

4 (2h 22m 36s):
Yeah. You can follow me on Twitter at real Chris Ruffo. I have a substack. It's Christopher Rufo dot com and I have a New York Times bestselling book, America's Cultural Revolution that tells the history of the radical lefts long march of the institutions available everywhere.

3 (2h 22m 51s):
Alright, beautiful. Thank you. Bye everybody.