1 (2s):
Joe Rogan podcast. Check

2 (3s):
Out. The. Joe Rogan. Experience.

3 (6s):
Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night. All day,

4 (12s):
My man. How are you? Good to see you brother.

5 (15s):
Good to be back. Thank you for having me. Miss you. I miss you too.

4 (17s):
I used to get to see you every week.

5 (19s):
I thought about that the other day, like Yeah. Yeah. You forget that, that that's like a period of time and it's not gonna be forever sometimes, you know?

4 (25s):
Yeah. Well it almost was, you were the one of the first people to take the trip out here. I was.

5 (30s):
It was clear as day when I first came out. I'm like, why wouldn't you be out here? 'cause I remember I had this writing job, right? And so I was just like on Zoom every day and life kind of sucked 'cause you couldn't go out. So I was just trapped in my house. Right. And then in between a lunch break, I'm on Instagram and I. See Tony, you know, Tony HLAs post. He's, this is like in the infancy of him, him coming out here, you know, he's like sold out Anton's. You know what I mean? Yeah. It seemed like this bizarro universe, right? Where like life is still happening and I love standup so much. and I was just kind of miserable. And I'm like, if this is happening out there, I can do standup. So then I started asking questions, I hit up the eps. I'm like, yo, 'cause we're on Zoom.

5 (1m 11s):
Could I, could I just write from Austin, just zoom by day and then do standup out here with like all you guys at night? And they were like, we don't see why not. So it was awesome. I got an apartment out here. I would zoom by day. I would just be doing awesome shows at Vulcan and stuff at night. Yeah, it was, it felt like a life hack.

4 (1m 28s):
It was a life hack.

5 (1m 29s):
Yeah. It was. It was great. Yeah. I'm so glad I did that. Have

4 (1m 31s):
You been to the mothership yet? Of course

5 (1m 33s):
Dude. Oh, okay. Yeah. It's amazing. Thanks. I got to do, I think you were on vacation then. Adam had me do what you normally do in the middle of the week. Oh yeah. The Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Mm. So I got to do like six shows. Nice. In that beautiful big room. Nice. Both rooms are great. You know, I like that small one for working on stuff. It's kinda like the belly.

4 (1m 54s):
It's very much like the small room is a combination of the belly and the, or it's a little bit bigger than the belly room and a little more locked in. Yeah. In the belly room. And then the big room is like a combination of the, or in the main room.

5 (2m 7s):
That's what I tell everybody 'cause they go, what's it like? and it is, it's like if those rooms had babies, like they're, they're in the middle of both those, of all three of those rooms. You know?

4 (2m 15s):
They're both perfect. Yeah. They're the perfect size. You

5 (2m 18s):
Know, it's kind of funny, I think the store has started to like get a facelift because of what you've done at mothership. 'cause so many comics would come back and be like, yo, they just give you all your sets. You know what I mean? The sounds amazing. Like, 'cause it's so state of the art.

4 (2m 32s):
Well there's also the screens in the green room that show you what's going on on stage and the time.

5 (2m 37s):
You can't miss your spot.

4 (2m 38s):
Yeah. You can't miss your spot. Yeah. And there's lights everywhere. Yeah. So to let you know, there's lights in, there's two sets of lights in the hallway. One in the beginning of the hallway, one of the top of the stairs. You always know in the guy's got the light.

5 (2m 49s):
Yeah. So I think,

4 (2m 50s):
And if you have any suggestions by the way, just throw them out. We'll use 'em. Okay. Half of the club is built on suggestions.

5 (2m 58s):
Well, you can tell, you know,

4 (2m 60s):
Like this, I think it was Tony's idea to have the lights in the green room. It might have been Tony's idea also to have the monitors in the green room. It was Louis's idea to lower the ceiling. Yeah. It was Louis's idea to change the size of the stage in the little room and lower the ceiling in the little room too.

5 (3m 14s):
How big was the stage before Louis suggested the change? It

4 (3m 18s):
Was like four feet more on each side. Too big. Yeah. It was too big. It was too big. He was right. Yeah. He's like, why do you have all this extra stage You Don't really, it's an intermittent room. Like yeah, you're right. but it was just, you know, we just kind of like walked into this empty space when it was just a movie theater. So when it was a movie theater, it was, we had to change everything. Right? So we changed the way the stairs are. So in a movie theater, the stairs slant way down at a steep angle. Right. So you could all watch the big screen. We raised the floor up. So we had to build a concrete, like a rebar and concrete floor. So it's a totally different floor. Yes.

5 (3m 54s):
It's crazy. Yeah.

4 (3m 55s):
So we raised it up till, and then Louie wanted me to lower the ceiling even more. So I did that as well. After

5 (3m 60s):
The fact. When it was all said and done,

4 (4m 1s):
No, it wasn't all said and done. We were in the middle of everything. Luckily we had, we did have to recut the stage in the small room. 'cause we, it was the, the, but the concrete hadn't been poured yet. Mm. So they just had to recut the steel and put it on. But it's very interesting. It's very interesting. I've never been a part of building anything like that before. Yeah.

5 (4m 18s):
You could tell though, because you're a standup of several years. You could tell it was designed by a comedian.

4 (4m 24s):
It's all done with comics. Yeah. Because comics input. And also Richard, the architect who is amazing. Oh. 'cause shout out to Richard Wets. Yeah. He's the man. He's he's the man. He's so good. I'll have him on the podcast someday. He's a really interesting guy. And he, he also came up with the idea of making the tunnel.

5 (4m 40s):
Oh, the tunnel's awesome.

4 (4m 41s):
The tunnel's, the shit. Yeah. Yeah. It's such a cool hangout. The whole thing's just such, it's all just set up just for a hang. You know, everybody feels

5 (4m 49s):
Good. The most valuable asset to comedians, especially nowadays, is getting that footage. Dude,

4 (4m 53s):
The footage is big. It's, yeah, we'll film you and then also it's like really high quality.

5 (4m 58s):
Yes. It's eight K. Yeah. The sounds great. So I've been pushing for that at the store. and I think they're starting to, it's just, it's just a process. But they

4 (5m 6s):
Also have to put people's phones in bags so they pay attention. Mm. People are so goddamn distracted. Me included. It's so hard. Just sit there. It's one of the things that I love about podcasts is that for three hours I'm not gonna see what's going on in the world. World. You're locked in. I'm locked in. I don't have to think about other things. And I'm really lucky. I think it's a form of therapy in a weird way. In this Bazar digitally sort of intertwined world. You can't escape it. I, I can never escape it. It's so hard to get away from emails and text messages and it's just, I cannot keep up. I have 185 unanswered text messages. Are

5 (5m 42s):
You good about clearing them or do you, do you have all that red?

4 (5m 46s):
Who has time

5 (5m 46s):
To clear space? I have to clear them. I have this OCD thing where I need to have a clean, I can't have red.

4 (5m 51s):
Okay. It's 183. 183 unanswered text. Right. How, how do I

5 (5m 55s):
Do that? Well, you're a popular guy,

4 (5m 56s):
Dude. No, no. How do you, do you keep up. You can't Oh,

5 (5m 58s):
It, you literal literally can't keep up. It's hard for you. I, I can keep up, I can keep, I'm always surprised like for how busy you are and like what a figure you are. Like how quickly you respond still. But I love you. I well thank you. You're my friend. Thank you. But I have friends and people who are much lower than you in the pantheon of things. Who takes so much longer.

4 (6m 17s):
Well sometimes I do take long though. If I'm out doing something. Yeah. There's, there's times where I'll come home and there's 60 text messages and there's not a chance in hell that I can just bang all those out. Right. I just, otherwise I'll go insane. That's, that's what I'm saying. It's just like, it's not that I have too many people contacting me. It's not, that's not what it is. It's, you find a fucking excuse to use that thing.

5 (6m 42s):
Oh, the phone.

4 (6m 43s):
The phone. Yeah. You find excuse. It's cool to be in contact with people. It's fun. I like that. I love the text message I have between friends, sending each other memes, talking shit. It's fun. It's silly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's silly fun. It's, it's a nice relief when Ari sends me a funny thing, you know, or says something funny. It's a nice little relief.

5 (7m 2s):
The text thread you're in, they're great. You live for the text thread? Yes.

4 (7m 4s):
Yeah. We got a, I got a few of those text threads going on between me and comics and it's the most fun thing man, Ari. But it's just the fucking phone runs your goddamn life dude. It does. And it's like, it's made it, so, especially if you're a person who, like if you're booking shows, you have to, you know, you're be in contact with your agent. You have to be in contact with the opening acts. You gotta, you know,

5 (7m 28s):
It's a tool for everything. It's like I gotta DocuSign something. I have to edit a video, I have to post it on TikTok. I have to post it on Facebook. I have to post it on, it's literally a computer. It's it like your work never ends if you have

4 (7m 39s):
To, you know what's the most hilarious thing to me is when you have to sign things online.

5 (7m 43s):
Like it's such bullshit. It's an exercise in everyone's believing it's

4 (7m 46s):
Fake signature. It's not even my real signature. It's a fake signature. Like a DocuSign. Yeah. And you just agree that you're gonna accept that as your signature. You say, okay. Right. And you click it and then it's your signature

5 (7m 58s):
Is just Joe Rogan in text one. I guess that's a signature.

4 (8m 1s):
There's one way around that. It's if you have a, like a Samsung Galaxy S 24 Ultra, their new phone it, it has a stylus that's built into the phone and you could use it to sign

5 (8m 13s):
PDFs. Does somebody care enough to be buying that phone just to sign documents?

4 (8m 17s):
No, but you can sign all kinds of stuff. Like you can write on it like a notepad. It's really fascinating. It's a very fascinating piece of text.

5 (8m 24s):
We're going back to Palm Pilot. We've gone full circle

4 (8m 28s):
A little bit. but it also allows you to take photographs. So you could use it as a shutter. So you could like stand across the room and take a photo of yourself or a video and you press that button and it starts recording and it start or starts.

5 (8m 38s):
You'd be like an old timey photographer could just put a blanket over you.

4 (8m 43s):
Do they still do that? Did they have like That'd be great. Enthusiast. Who

5 (8m 46s):
Old time must think there's some, some kid in Silver Lake who's like, yo pose everybody at some cool bar and he has the flash.

4 (8m 51s):
Yo, I used to get fascinated by this one dude who would make old timey wooden farm tools. This guy would make like old timey. What are those things? Planes. He would make old timey planes and old timey like,

5 (9m 5s):
Like Wright brothers planes? No,

4 (9m 7s):
No planes. Like where your planing wood. Oh okay. He was like a wood shop guy. but it was all handmade. He made all of his tools.

5 (9m 14s):
Who's the market for that? Me.

4 (9m 16s):
I watched that show. I couldn't stop watching. It is,

5 (9m 19s):
But like when he makes the tools, is there a market to buy those or is it novelty?

4 (9m 23s):
Oh sure. I think it's novelty. I, I bet when at the time this was pre-internet or maybe like the internet was just starting. But this guy had a cool show and I used to watch it all the time. I love when people love things. That's what I figured out about me. It doesn't even have to be something that I love. Yeah. But I love when people love things and that's when I really got into Bourdain show. 'cause I was like, God damn, this dude loves food. He loves cooking, he loves cuisine. Is that me or you that just ding?

5 (9m 54s):
I think it's you. I an airplane man. I respect the format.

4 (9m 57s):
I usually do bro. This

5 (9m 58s):
Guy, come on. You think I'd be so bold to not turn

6 (10m 0s):
It off on Instagram Makes the photos that way with a truck. He turned a whole truck into a A camera essentially.

5 (10m 8s):
Oh that's cool.

6 (10m 8s):
And the process of it is crazy. So like it could be a miss sometimes I mean 'cause of how much work he's doing to

5 (10m 13s):
Set up. Imagine trying to convince these women it's a camera and not some creepy. Oh yeah. It'd be like, no, no it's a

4 (10m 18s):
Camera. A psycho.

5 (10m 19s):
Yeah. Just come into the woods and pose for me.

4 (10m 21s):
So he turned his truck into a camera? Yeah. Like he built his own camera and

6 (10m 25s):
It like the whole thing is like the the dark room, you know everything. And then does the chemical process. It makes really cool photos on like on metal. He is printing 'em right to metal. Whoa.

5 (10m 35s):
That is kind of the

6 (10m 35s):
Most of the photos we have is like a transfer to metal. These are directly to

4 (10m 38s):
Metal. Is that how they first started making photos? Did they put 'em on metal? don don't think

6 (10m 42s):
It was metal. Well plates. Yeah, I think it would be plates nice

5 (10m 45s):
Returning to nature. Oh

4 (10m 46s):
That one didn't work. So he is just throwing it. Yep. Hey dude, don't litter

5 (10m 50s):
It up. He's down on his

4 (10m 51s):
Side. Come on. I know you're mad that your fucking homemade camera doesn't work but you better pick that up bitch.

5 (10m 56s):
That's the beauty of you

4 (10m 57s):
Dude. You don. Imagine that the guy just littered.

5 (10m 59s):
Yeah. You think that's not natural. Fuck.

4 (11m 1s):
You can't litter in those places bro. There's too many people visit. Think about how many people visit like national parks. It is like so important to not litter, to throw. No one's going in there cleaning up after you fucking animals. Don't do it. Don't litter. And you're in the woods, man. my friend Adam Greentree, he goes in these big backpacking hunts where he'll go, he'll go into the like Montana mountains. Colorado mountains for like a month at a time. And he's just picking up bags of people's shit that they left behind. Bags of empty water bottles, bags of trash. And he just brings a bag with him and he collects it while he is out there hunting. He said it's disgusting.

5 (11m 37s):
That's nice of him to do. I'm sure there's tons of stuff out. There's

4 (11m 40s):
So disturbing though that people do that. It's, it's the worst aspect of us. This just total willingness through completely being selfish of just destroying one of the most amazing things we have in this country, which is national parks and public lands and place where you could just walk out into the woods. Yeah. There's tons of places in this country where you can just go on a hike in the fucking woods with bears and moose and all kinds of shit. You can just go out there man. Yeah. Hopefully you know what you're doing, but nobody really tests you. Right's allowed. Nobody says, Hey Faheem, how long can you hike before you die?

5 (12m 22s):
Let's find out. Hey

4 (12m 23s):
Faheem, did you, do you, do you doing any cardio at all? No. Hey Faheem, do you know how to use a compass? Hey Faheem, do you guys have fucking something to start fire with?

5 (12m 31s):
Well that's when you make the local news and then there's a file photo of me and like the search has been on for six days,

4 (12m 36s):
Bro. Bro, it's so hard to stay alive. It's so hard. You think? Yeah. I've never like stayed alive. You know, I'm obviously just talking outta my ass. But I have been camping And one of the things that you realize when you go camping, if you just go camping just a few nights in a row, you'll realize like what fucking bitches, people are these animals, they sleep on the ground every night. They don't give a fuck. Yeah. They're out there wild. There's no doors, there's no borders. And they have all these defense mechanisms they developed to protect them from predators because of that. Because there's no hiding. Every day is war. If you're a fucking deer, every day is like listening for branches.

4 (13m 16s):
Snapping.

5 (13m 16s):
Yeah. That's just life

4 (13m 18s):
Every day.

5 (13m 19s):
Remember I was like, I was snorkeling in Hawaii and you get to see all that marine life down there and I just saw this sea turtle so peaceful. And then part of me was like, he doesn't have to worry about rent or any, you know, he, he doesn't have to make money to exist. Right. True. Which was like an interesting concept. But he has so many other problems too. He's

4 (13m 35s):
Got problems.

5 (13m 35s):
He's got problems. Yeah. But there's just something about like that being enough for this turtle just kind of floating. Whereas like, I gotta get a job. I gotta go on tour, I gotta make money. I have to have an apartment. I have to, you know what I mean? All these things humans need to do to exist.

4 (13m 49s):
The turtle's a residual effect of evolution. That's no longer necessary. But we think they're beautiful.

5 (13m 54s):
I think they're beautiful man.

4 (13m 55s):
We think they're cool.

5 (13m 56s):
Cool guys. They live

4 (13m 57s):
A long time Turtle. You're like hey bro, this design is not gonna survive

5 (14m 1s):
Man, I can watch a turtle eat lettuce forever. Doesn't Stallone still have his turtle from Rocky?

4 (14m 6s):
Whoa. Is it that old?

5 (14m 7s):
It's old man. God they live a long time. Oh

4 (14m 9s):
My. I had turtles. I had to get rid of them when I had babies. 'cause turtles are dirty little creatures. Oh You don't wanna have that stuff around. But they were ruthless.

5 (14m 20s):
I would slowly ruthless

4 (14m 21s):
Them. No, I would feed them goldfish. Dude, I had piranhas at one point in time.

5 (14m 27s):
Of course you did. That's like the most Joe Rogan pet.

4 (14m 29s):
And they were not nearly as ruthless as these fucking turtles.

5 (14m 33s):
Yeah,

4 (14m 34s):
Look at that. Rocky's still got the same turtle. 44 years old. At least this is, this was five years ago.

5 (14m 40s):
So Turtle looks great. He looks 10.

4 (14m 42s):
I'm sure they're not dead yet. They think that, I bet they do because tortoises live like a thousand years. Don't they?

5 (14m 47s):
Something

4 (14m 48s):
A long time. I think sea turtles live a long fucking time too, which is like the saddest thing when you see people kill 'em and eat 'em and you're like, oh,

5 (14m 54s):
But how

4 (14m 55s):
Good must you're killing someone. That's

5 (14m 56s):
How, how tasty if they're doing that.

4 (14m 58s):
You think so

5 (14m 59s):
Start sometimes that, think about like shark fin soup and you're like how good must it be?

4 (15m 3s):
Aquatic turtles will con commonly live 20 to 30 years in captivity. But many can live much longer. Tortoises are loan some estimated to live a hundred to 150 years. So it's not tortoises. Is it sea turtles that live forever? Who are the old ones? So some of them can live up to 250 years. What about sea turtles? Maybe it's sea turtles.

5 (15m 26s):
Do you think there's like, I think

4 (15m 27s):
They're really old.

5 (15m 29s):
A family that has a turtle that's been in the family for generations. Like it's 249 years old. Wow. That's a good question. This is my great great grandfather's turtle. That's

4 (15m 37s):
A solid question.

5 (15m 38s):
That'd be awesome.

4 (15m 39s):
I think there's sharks that are alive today that are the oldest living creatures. I think there's sharks

6 (15m 47s):
They estimated up to, oh I'm sorry, go ahead. Ten one

4 (15m 51s):
A thousand years, right?

6 (15m 52s):
One in 1000.

4 (15m 54s):
Oh

6 (15m 54s):
That's surviving ivory. I was reading it wrong. Sorry. It's too many words.

4 (15m 58s):
Lifespan five a hundred years. But there's one turtle, there's some fucking turtle that they think it's really old. It

6 (16m 4s):
Says estimate up to 500 years old.

4 (16m 7s):
Oh,

6 (16m 7s):
Okay. Here's one right here. don don't

5 (16m 8s):
Know. I mean they just look old. No, you know you never see a turtle and you're like this this guy, large

4 (16m 13s):
Turtles. That's what I'm talking about. 500 years old. That's fucking punks man. That's like Preor Washington. Wrap your head around that. You're a baby turtle. You're just fucking chilling. And all of a sudden these boats pull up and you're like, this isn't gonna be anything.

5 (16m 29s):
Do you think some of these turtles are not that progressive because they're pretty old and they they haven't

4 (16m 33s):
Been. They're super conservative. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. They probably watch Fox News. They're

5 (16m 37s):
Like, women are wearing pants. What is this? I see ankles. This wasn't happening when I, when I came up. Yeah.

4 (16m 43s):
You ever see a, there's a, a snapping turtle. What do, what do they call 'em? The really crazy looking ones. It's like a dinosaur looking thing. It's a type of snapping turtle. But there's a like a gator snapping turtle. I think maybe that's what they call it. Alligator snapping turtle. It's crazy looking dude. You can't even believe it's a real creature. And these assholes are picking him up and you're like, bro, if you fuck up that thing's taking your hand, it's take I mean literally taking your hand. They're big.

5 (17m 12s):
Yeah, I wouldn't do that. Jesus.

4 (17m 14s):
Look at that fucking mouth. But there's some big ones. Look at that one in the, look at the size of that one. That's one I'm talking about. Like that guy has that guy's out of his fucking mind. Yeah. If that mo gets a hold of one of those fingers, that shit is so gone. You're trusting your grip. Look at that thing man. Right. You're trusting your grip.

6 (17m 32s):
It's nose

4 (17m 33s):
Bro.

6 (17m 34s):
A fucking pig. Stop.

4 (17m 35s):
Fuck all that. That is a monster. If that was big and storming into a village in Mongolia a thousand years ago in some crazy movie, he'd be like, oh my god. You know, have some Lord of the Rings type movie. Yeah. That would exactly. I move would be what it would look like. And there'd be guys with straps around that thing riding it. Oh yeah,

5 (17m 54s):
Yeah. Right. That's, that's like those scenes in the movies where look at that thing. Yeah. Where the heroes are are against the wall. But then the people riding these things come in from the side. You go, yeah

4 (18m 2s):
Bro, we are so weak.

5 (18m 4s):
Well just humans in humans. Humans,

4 (18m 5s):
Yeah. We're so weak. It's what a amazing trade off though.

5 (18m 8s):
But we have bombs.

4 (18m 9s):
Yeah we have guns, we have everything. We have houses. Yeah we have cars. We made up for so many different things. We way made up for it. But isn't it interesting that as you make up for it, you have to give away your physical defenses? We're the most vulnerable. A good house cat could fuck you up a house.

5 (18m 29s):
Cat could. If you're not ready, fuck you

4 (18m 31s):
Up. Dude. A rat for sure. A rat the size of a house cat could fuck you up. You'd be so scared

5 (18m 36s):
Of that thing. Yeah, I saw this video. You know you see videos on Twitter and stuff. This guy in New York, there's a possum just on the side of this building and then, and then this, this, this white guy helps the neighborhood out. He just grabs it off the wall and it's like, and everyone's just thanking this guy and he just knows how to handle the possum and he walks it down the street and he just like throws it into an alley.

4 (18m 57s):
Yeah. My dog Marshall likes possums. That's, that's the person who grew up on a farm. That lady just grabs it. I

5 (19m 2s):
Just love how this is the sub genre on the internet. Grabbing possums.

4 (19m 5s):
Just grabbed that thing like she knew exactly what the fuck she was doing. Look at her walk out confidently. Look at her. She's all confident and shit. Holding onto that wild rat.

5 (19m 13s):
Like does she have experience? I wouldn't.

4 (19m 14s):
She must. She must. Unless it's hers. That's true. Maybe it's like a YouTube guy.

5 (19m 18s):
She's like my bad guys, she got out,

4 (19m 20s):
She's releasing possums like oh you got a little crazy Roscoe, you cut that out. Ro you cut that out. Roscoe we're

5 (19m 27s):
In an Applebee's. Come on

4 (19m 28s):
Roscoe. They have a disease. A very specific disease. Right. Don't, don't possums have like something nasty. I think they have something. Na, I was worried 'cause my dogs got 'em a couple of times. Yeah they just lock up. They don't even fight back. They

5 (19m 43s):
Get scared. Yes.

4 (19m 44s):
No, they lock up. They play possum. They, oh so that's where the fucking term comes from. They're dead. That's where it comes from. Yeah. It's a weird response.

5 (19m 50s):
So I mean the possums have the same

4 (19m 52s):
Technique. They dunno if it's a response to escape coyotes. 'cause coyotes sometimes will kill you and not eat you immediately. And maybe there's some sort of an evolutionary advantage to playing dead and they leave you there, but you're not actually dead. And so they give up on trying to eat you yet she got a toxoplasmosis para

5 (20m 13s):
Toxo and then something called lepto.

4 (20m 14s):
Yeah. Source. All kinds of bad shit. Yeah. COIs. How do you say that first one? COIs. Come on dude. You went to college.

5 (20m 26s):
I mean I didn't study this. I didn't study. Possums.

4 (20m 28s):
Engineer. Do you say that? Co

5 (20m 31s):
COIs.

4 (20m 31s):
Co osis. Microscopic parasite found in a possum feces. Spreads of disease known as coce. Osis. When a possums are immune to the disease, they're carriers and spread it to other animals. Diarrhea. Yeah. Bloody diarrhea, dehydration, weight loss. General decline in health if untreated can result in complications or death. Oh shit, this one sounds tough. Death by parasites. You know what they give you when you have parasites? What?

5 (20m 60s):
Ivermectin. Oh really? Yeah.

4 (21m 3s):
Yeah. That's what it's originally for.

5 (21m 4s):
This is, dogs are susceptible to this

4 (21m 6s):
One. Dogs are susceptible to lepto. Leptospirosis. Yep. Leptospirosis. Bacterial infection through contact with a possum, urine or contaminated water. Both pets and humans can. So it doesn't, I wonder if that means if they bite them. If they bite them, they definitely can get toxo if they eat them.

5 (21m 25s):
So the moral stories just stay away from possums if you can. Right. Toxo. I I would imagine

4 (21m 28s):
Toxo is the wildest.

5 (21m 29s):
Yeah.

4 (21m 31s):
Do you know that they think that somewhere in some places, like at France at one point in time 50% of the population was positive for Toxo?

5 (21m 39s):
No. Why? From what? Cats?

4 (21m 41s):
Ah, from feral cats. Feral cats leave cat shit around. And that's why they tell pregnant women never touch cat litter. It's, it could re, it's really bad for the kid if the woman's pregnant and she gets talk so well

5 (21m 53s):
Oh fuck.

4 (21m 53s):
But it's a parasite that infects your brain. And the wildest thing about, it's what it does to rats 'cause it rewires the rat's sexual reward system. This parasite does and gets the rat horny for cat piss. So the cat is like pissing somewhere. The rat finds where the cat's pissing and he's literally erect. Has, is

5 (22m 13s):
It just fucking the liquid or what? Has

4 (22m 15s):
No fear of cats. Zero fear of cats. They fear of cats completely goes away to the point where they pursue cats. So the cats eat the rats because toxo can only grow and it can only reproduce inside the cat's digestive tract. So inside, inside the cat's gut it's reproducing the cat shits it out and then the cycle repeats itself. The rats eat it. The rats eat the cat shit. Rats always eat shit. They get toxo, they give it to other cats.

5 (22m 44s):
Vicious cycle.

4 (22m 45s):
And it gets to people and it makes people reckless. Ah. It makes, it is a disproportionate amount of high instances of toxo are connected to successful soccer teams.

5 (22m 54s):
How do you know so much about Toxo? Like

4 (22m 56s):
I'm fascinated by it. There's this guy Robert Polsky out of Stanford. Is he outta Stanford? Yeah, they believe so. Brilliant guy. But he did all this work on toxoplasmosis. One of the things they found when he was a resident, or maybe it was one of his friends that was a resident, they found that there was a disproportionate amount of motorcycle victims who tested positive for toxo. So they started testing motorcycle victims for Toxo. And they found that there's a disproportionate amount enough to indicate that there's probably something going on there that maybe the toxo makes people more reckless.

5 (23m 29s):
That's so weird how that can make you do that.

4 (23m 32s):
It's nuts dude. You think of how many people have feral cats? How many people probably have it? You can have it and not even have any idea, have no inclination that you have it.

5 (23m 41s):
I'm gonna get tested for tox now you just

4 (23m 43s):
A little

5 (23m 43s):
Cuckoo. I'm like dude, I had it the whole time.

4 (23m 44s):
You're just a little cuckoo.

7 (23m 46s):
It's a 40%. Yeah. Population in America.

4 (23m 49s):
40%. So much. 40% as toxo up to could be 16 to 40%. Let's just say it's only 16. Do you know how nuts that is? It's, it's a parasite that affects your, affects your behavior. That's so bananas. I know how nuts is that it's pretty. And most people aren't even aware of that.

5 (24m 8s):
Get tested guys. This is like a PSA get tested for Toxo.

4 (24m 11s):
Yeah. It's what are the side effects or what are the effects? I know there's like a loss of inhibition I think that comes with it. Something along those lines. Maybe

5 (24m 22s):
That's good before hit stage. Toxo just makes you fearless as a comedian. Well

4 (24m 25s):
That, you know, a good head

5 (24m 26s):
Has

4 (24m 26s):
Toxo good head injury. Good for that too.

5 (24m 29s):
Yeah. A good injury.

4 (24m 30s):
A good head injury when you're younger. Like you wouldn't recommend it. But two of the all time greats had like big head injuries and they turned into Kennison, Kinison and Rose was the other one

5 (24m 41s):
Had, I didn't know she had a head

4 (24m 42s):
Injury. She was hit by a car. Yeah.

5 (24m 43s):
Oh, Adam Divine got hit by a car too when he was like, oh Jesus. Yeah. Yeah. I think he broke his bones and stuff. Oh my. When he was a kid. Oh

4 (24m 49s):
My. That's so scary. Yeah, I, I've been watching more car accidents because of Instagram than at any other time in my life. Instagram just wants to show you people dying.

5 (24m 60s):
Well X two man

4 (25m 2s):
X two. Well X is everything. Yeah. X has porn on it. Which is so wild that during the time where they were trying to take people take their accounts away for Covid information that they didn't think was correct at the time they were allowing like hardcore porn.

5 (25m 18s):
I know you, you forget it's the wild wild west on there.

4 (25m 20s):
And I'm not saying they shouldn't Sure, I'd love that. It's the wild wild

5 (25m 23s):
West. but it's, it's such whiplash. Like I'll be watching a cat video. Yeah. And then it's just some guy, you know, getting hit by a car and I'm like, Jesus. Like give me a minute, let me brace myself. And

4 (25m 33s):
Instagram knows that I watch those, those

5 (25m 36s):
Motherfuckers. It's serving you up. It knows your Aldo. It's

4 (25m 38s):
Just serving me up. There's a lot of these. I'm not even following these accounts. You

5 (25m 41s):
Like this guy dying? You may like this guy.

4 (25m 43s):
Yeah. It's like, it's weird like should your feed be only people you follow or should they show you a bunch of shit? Well that's

5 (25m 50s):
What these companies are struggling with because when it was all just your circle, people weren't consuming as much as the suggested videos. You know what's funny is like I got shadow banned on Instagram for like around Thanksgiving. What

4 (26m 2s):
Did you do?

5 (26m 3s):
Hardly anything. And it's, it sucks because I'm trying to do a special via non-traditional means. You know, like it's not Netflix, it's not Comedy Central. Like this is a model now because of like you and YouTube. Like this is a viable alternative to like the Netflix Comedy Central special whatever. So it's like you need the power of these social media companies to reach people. So like doing podcasts and you do the YouTube special that's like an arm of it. And then you disseminate Ari Shafi has like been very helpful with like trying to self-release a special. So you like chop it up into Clipse like this is what I did at my last one. You know, and you just chop up. 'cause most people are gonna access you via Clips. Like everyone has time for 30 seconds.

5 (26m 45s):
Right. 'cause the hour long special is kind of for jazz heads. You gotta be a real standup comedy nerd to like sit down and watch an hour jazz.

4 (26m 53s):
It's for real. Right. I was like,

5 (26m 54s):
Guy got vinyl. I swear it is. 'cause like I was talking to Roy Wood Jr. And like sometimes because we're in standup, we just think it's the world because it is our world and we think that it translates to the rest. And he kind of, he like Bird's eye viewed it for me. He is like, yo, when you go on Spotify, standup is under jazz. You know what I mean? He goes as an art form. Right. It's under jazz. Jazz is more popular. And I'm like, it kind of put everything into focus for me where you know, don don't have to be as invested. I'm like okay, there's a ceiling to what you can do. Right. But anyway, you, I need the Clips. Like I need the arm of the Clips because like I, I had some Clips do like 12 mil and stuff and people were able to find me via Instagram reels.

5 (27m 43s):
So when they shadow banned me, like it tells you, you can look at your account status and it, there'll be marks on there. It'll say there's like three strikes and stuff. And then one of the things that said is your content will not be shown to non followers. And that's kind of how the machine works. Like your stuff gets suggested to people who may not have known about you. So you need that as an artist if you want to grow. Right. Like to see your special and your standup. So you're, you're being suppressed, you're being limited.

4 (28m 12s):
How do you know you were shadow banned?

5 (28m 13s):
Because it tells you on your account status. And then I had people talking to people who work at IG or Meta or whatever and they're like, yeah it's shadow banned. What did you do? I think it's because it's an election cycle or something. Like it's not even a human doing it. I think it just scrapes for buzzwords and just blanket has these suppression on it. So I had this joke how that sounds so creepy. Well it's a, it sucks because there's no nuance to it. It was just a joke. You know, my faheem works on stuff show I, I do it on YouTube sometime. Sure. Where I'm just working on material. Right. I just do it to feed the algo. And sometimes there's a great joke that works and I just post it on a reel 'cause it's like 80% of the way there and I'm just feeding the algo.

5 (28m 56s):
So this joke I post, I post it on all of them. You know, I do a clip and then I post it on all the social media platforms. So it remained on TikTok and all the other ones. It was fine. And usually TikTok is very draconian. Like they don't like, 'cause it's mostly kids. So the joke, it's, I just go, it's a non-sequitur, you know, just outta nowhere. I'm like, oh, I just, I just want to let you guys know Hamas is hiding at my ex-girlfriend's house. So that's the joke. It's like saying something without saying something. Yeah. It's just, you know, it's just a joke. It's a joke and like,

4 (29m 28s):
Oh my God, we can't have jokes about

5 (29m 29s):
Hamas. Yeah. So that's, that's all I said. Oh my God. And, and then I think it just saw Hamas on the thumbnail, you know, when you post on the grid and then, and I got a strike for that. And then there was no way to reach people. And I'm just fucked.

4 (29m 43s):
Wait a minute. So any mention of Hamas gets you shot about? Is that

5 (29m 46s):
What you're saying? Yes. Yeah, pretty much. I think it just, it's this machine learning or whatever. It's, it's just scraping the internet for like buzzwords. So that was like a hot button issue and stuff. And there's no nuance applied to the situation or the joke. So it just sees Hamas and then my account got hit like that. So

4 (30m 3s):
Is it any joke about Hamas or just mentioning Hamas?

5 (30m 6s):
I don't think the joke was even taken into consideration. I think they just saw Hamas on a thumbnail or Hamas on a caption not knowing that it's a guy on stage doing a joke. Right. And there's layers to the Did you appeal it? Yes. I tried to appeal it and then it was just stuck in review forever. So nothing was gonna happen. Like I was, I was pretty much fucked. So I know influencers in LA and stuff and I was like, and sometimes when they're pretty high up on ig, they have a contact or something more than a nebulous because you can't, these companies are so there's no point person. I think it's like that for a reason. So they tried to help me out. They had a guy and we were going back and forth and nothing was getting done. And luckily I met a large agency, like a talent agency and they were going at it too, trying to help.

5 (30m 51s):
And like just a week ago it got lifted because Yes. And then so the joke is up. Whereas before it wasn't. So it's, it's like it didn't even happen. It's like I had someone vouch for me and then they like hands were off. It was fine. Mm. But only because I had the might of this talent agency. If I was like a regular guy, I would just be fucked.

4 (31m 10s):
Well that is the thing about a, an agency can get in contact with someone who, you know, there's a value in that For sure.

5 (31m 16s):
Yeah.

4 (31m 16s):
So much. Especially in this weird time. But you also have to realize from their perspective, they're managing at scale literally billions of people.

5 (31m 24s):
Yes. So I

4 (31m 25s):
I mean Facebook and Instagram are all the same company. Right. It's all meta. So like how many, how many meta customers are there? Let's just guess

5 (31m 34s):
So many. Well, isn't like a small nation when you add up how many Facebook

4 (31m 37s):
Users don't it? Very small nation. I think it's, I think it's a really big one. I think it's a really big one. I I I want to say it's north of 2 billion.

5 (31m 45s):
Yeah.

4 (31m 46s):
That's a big ass country. but it's,

5 (31m 48s):
It's, it's an imperfect solution.

6 (31m 51s):
Daily reactive users on meta products.

4 (31m 53s):
Yeah. It's

6 (31m 54s):
3.19 billion.

5 (31m 59s):
Yeah. That's

4 (31m 60s):
Half. That's so many people. It's a lot of people. So you have to think from their perspective says three, that they think they have an obligation somehow to maintain a certain level of discourse on their platform. This is how you could establish it initially. But then when you get people in there that are very politically biased and you get people in there that are socially biased and you, and they only want one perspective being heard. And then you get a lot of people self-censoring because they self-censor because they're like, Hey, I don't know what I can say and what I can't say. Well now

5 (32m 36s):
Well I'm now I'm like that.

4 (32m 38s):
Right. Exactly. That's what I'm saying. Saying Twitter does not do that. X does not do that. don don't like calling it XI still call it Twitter. I know I'm old school bro. I'm old school. It's because it's not an X. You can't make an X, you make a tweet. True. Right? True. Yeah. I tweeted it. You xed it. That's crazy.

5 (32m 52s):
No, I say Xed it, I, I write hard for Elon and I'm like, I was on X and I was just drafting a bunch of exes and then it

4 (32m 59s):
Just fucking,

5 (32m 59s):
I xed it. What, what do you call it? Tweet. Oh that, that's, that's that's Jack Dorsey. This is Elon.

4 (33m 5s):
The old days kids. It just,

5 (33m 8s):
So it's nice to have my account back, but I'm, it was but

4 (33m 10s):
I love that. It's wild. That's the, the Twitter thing is it's some I mean, some of it's disturbing when people get comfortable enough to just like really speak their mind about things. They're like, oh my god.

5 (33m 20s):
Well that's the thing about social media too, is sometimes when you're a close knit circle, your buddies kind of check you like, Hey, what are you doing? But social media, some people have a lot of rope and you're like, oh no. Yeah.

4 (33m 31s):
And especially like isolated people. Yes.

5 (33m 34s):
Isolated. I see my friends get nutty on the road. Like I'll get nutty. Like you could tell your buddy has been on the road for too long. Like they do a video in a hotel room or something. Oh no. And you're like, oh no, they're losing their mind.

4 (33m 45s):
Yeah.

5 (33m 45s):
I've been guilty of that too. Just when you're not surrounded by community and people and you're just a brain floating on the road.

4 (33m 52s):
The number one key that I found very early is going the road with your friends.

5 (33m 57s):
I'm lucky I've entered a phase of my career where now I'm starting to be able to do that. Whereas before you're not making enough money. So you're just beholden to whoever they book as a feature. Yeah. And you're just stuck in a hotel. You're walking across a freeway to go to a cracker barrel and kill time.

4 (34m 13s):
I decided a long time ago, like 98 to do that. Just bring, just pay more money. Yeah. Give them the money. Just make less money. But have a good time.

5 (34m 25s):
It's worth it,

4 (34m 26s):
Dude. It's everything. It's everything. Yeah. Make less money. Have a good time. Make more money. Have a bad time. Not fun. You don't like that. That's not a good feeling. Make less money, have a good time and have everybody else have a good time too. Yeah. So it's a bunch of guys who are really good friends who love each other. Been on the road forever, going to dinners forever. I've had hundreds of dinners with Ari and Joey Diaz and Duncan. And so we get together. It's just joy. It's the best. It's just joy. It's just being with your favorite people, having a good time and doing the thing that you can't believe you get paid to do. Yeah.

5 (35m 2s):
I'm, I'm able to do that now. I think, you know, I mean I have to say thank you for

4 (35m 7s):
No, you're able to do it from your talent.

5 (35m 9s):
I know, but I mean this is a platform. 'cause like I wasn't a Netflix guy, I wasn't a Comedy Central guy. And

4 (35m 15s):
Which doesn't make any sense to me. Well it's, it just shows me it's that Comedy Central and Netflix don't,

5 (35m 19s):
Well look at how much of, how many of my friends and peers are just skyrocketing and they weren't the guys they picked. You know what I mean. So it's kind of validating and refreshing. And it's cool to see comedy policing itself and just promoting guys who are in the trenches and know what's up. Not some guy who has a communications degree. and I mean

4 (35m 37s):
Mean, I think there's a lot of comedy nerds now too that are really into comedy. They're really, 'cause they get to see how the sausage is made from all the podcasts. Yeah. You know, it's still like really before that, I always said this like, there's so few conversations with great standups that exist. Like from the George Carlin days or Richard Pryor days. There's not hours and hours of prior just sitting around talking about things. Which would've been amazing. Yeah. Amazing. Can you imagine Richard Pryor or George Carlin had a podcast? It's pretty

5 (36m 10s):
Nuts. I know. Oh

4 (36m 11s):
My God. It'd be insane. It'd be insane. And George has done some conversations where he talked about his writing process. He talked about, you know, the art form itself. But he had a very specific way of doing it that most people don't do it that way. He would write a monologue. Yeah,

5 (36m 26s):
I saw

4 (36m 26s):
That. And then he would just sort of punch it up a little bit. That monologue would be his monologue for the year. It was amazing.

5 (36m 30s):
But it was rigid and he knew, he knew his beats and stuff. But yeah. Brilliant. Totally

4 (36m 34s):
Different process. Totally different process. 'cause in the end he became this guy who was a comic as much as he was a social critic. It was like both things were this, he was still a great comic, clearly, but he was also a great social critic. And he had, because he didn't have a podcast, his view of the world came out in a standup and he had to figure out a way to make that funny. And that was like his great challenge. Well

5 (37m 2s):
It gets so distilled when that's here. Yeah. 'cause like we can talk at length and approximate it and we have

4 (37m 7s):
And you can go back on what you said and go, you know, actually now that I'm thinking about it. Right. I could see how you would look at it the other way too. Which is so goddamn important.

5 (37m 17s):
Comedy fans are, are getting very granular. It's kind of cool. I think comedy's always been popular, but not like this. and I, I I almost feel like it's, people are discovering standup this day and age. Sort of like the way they used to discover music. Mm. People are taking ownership of discovering comedians. 'cause even me, I'm kind of like under the radar. I'm, I'm pretty niche. And when a, a comedy fan likes me, there's just like a level of fandom. It's like they found a cool record at a, at a record shop because of the, the advent of YouTube and Instagram. People aren't just accepting whatever is being fed to them through a corporate pipe.

4 (37m 56s):
Right. Which used to be the case. Like if you weren't picked before, you couldn't you, you couldn't do anything. That

5 (38m 1s):
Was the only way to even get in front of people. Yeah. Is like you had to be the corporate pick otherwise you were just toiling an obscurity. Yeah. There was no way to even be seen. But now there's all these ways to circumvent the traditional, like Schultz was saying something, it was like, like younger generations and stuff. They don't know where they saw it or like what the medium is or the branding. They just know they saw it on a tv. Whether it's YouTube, whether it's Netflix, whether it's Amazon. Like that type of branding is almost like legacy thinking from when I was coming up and you were coming up and there was a way to do it. Yeah. People just like good now.

4 (38m 37s):
Well they like what they like too. And there's plenty of variety. There's all sorts of different comics out there now that are really popular. It's really interesting time. I think like for standup, like for the art form, don don't think there's ever been a better time. There's never been more of it. There's never been more good ones. There's never been more good ones coming up. And that's one of the more interesting things about watching the club is occasionally I get to see these people that audition to be door people. Those are all comics. Yeah. and I get to see 'em grow. It's fun. It's fun to watch man. It's fun to watch people inspired and that energy is in the whole room. You know, because there's all these different levels. You know there guy like Asan and Derek who are now going on the road.

4 (39m 17s):
Yeah. Great guys. That and killing on the road. David Lucas is killing it on the road. William Montgomery's killing it on the road. And then there's like the headliners that come in that are there all the time. Like Shane and Duncan. Yeah. And Thom Segura and all these people that come in to fuck around. But there's this feeling that starts at the bottom. It starts with the base, it starts with the people that are inspired about making it still. And then there's the people that are just getting in and then there's the people that are in and then there's the people that are on television and everybody knows who they are and they scream when they go on stage. Right. And then there's Ron White. Yeah. Yeah. You know, there's those people. So it's like you get to see how we're all just the same thing. We're all just artists for lack of a pre

5 (39m 56s):
Pretentious word. We're like to, on just different evolution.

4 (39m 58s):
We're just doing a weird art form. Yeah. We're doing a weird art form that hasn't really, until now been documented as to how to go about doing the process and how each one of us went about doing the process. and I think people are interested in that. Just like I'm interested in that motherfucker. That makes wood wood tools. I love when people love things. Yeah. Yeah. I do. When even if it's something that I don't do. I love when people love things. It's, yeah. Anything man. Anything.

5 (40m 24s):
Well it's so interesting how the blueprint is to make it, whatever you wanna call it in comedy has shifted so fast in the past couple years. Yeah. Because when I was coming up, it was SNL, it was doing like a late night set. It was doing premium blend, like these smaller showcase type sets. Yes. And then you do a half hour, like a half hour on Comedy Central was huge. Like Right. Dane had a monster half hour just gaff again you would Louie, you know, these were like people's entry points to these people. And then now there's really, those things don't exist. I, I was taking Well it's the

4 (40m 59s):
Viral clip

5 (40m 60s):
Down. Yes. So I, you know, I was on the road and I took, I was doing Cobs and I brought Matt Lockwood, he's a comedian from the store and we're just sitting eating ice cream on the bench and I and I'm, you know, talking to the young comics and I'm like, what? What are you guys pine for now? Like what is the thing? Because when I was coming up, I knew what the thing was like what we all wanted. Right. It was like a JFL showcase. It was a late night set

4 (41m 23s):
Just for that, for people living

5 (41m 24s):
Montreal. Yeah. The biggest set of your life is in French Canada.

4 (41m 28s):
It is.

5 (41m 28s):
And then you make an Arby's joke and you're like, oh, you don't have Arby's. That would've been good. That would've been good to know in front of all these suits. What, what else is in the news? So I go, what's your thing? What are you? And he's like, there's really nothing that was weird to me that they had no touchdown. He goes maybe like a clip goes viral or a podcast. It's just so nebulous now. Right. There's no hard blueprint.

4 (41m 53s):
Well the blueprint before was kind of the, the problem was it involved other stuff. The blueprint involved like getting a sitcom, getting a talk show, getting a something. Yes. It always involved that

5 (42m 5s):
A means to an end A springboard. Like you couldn't just be a comic. No, you gotta be a wacky neighbor.

4 (42m 9s):
That was the thing that always bummed me out the most about Richard Jen. You know, Richard Jen when he died was one of the best comics ever. But was felt like a failure because he didn't become Jim Carrey because he didn't become the guy who did the movies. He had a TV show, it was called Platypus Man that was on like one of those burgeoning networks. One of those new networks like, what was it? wb? wb one of those.

5 (42m 33s):
It was the tubi of its day. It

4 (42m 35s):
Was one of those weird networks where like they started offering people deals to do shows that maybe wouldn't have got a show at NBC or a BC. But he was a great comic man. A great fucking comic. And he never liked the fact that he was just a comic.

5 (42m 51s):
But what's crazy is if you plug him in today, he'd be a killer. He Yeah. Arenas. It's enough. Like you're enough as a comic. Yeah. You're enough. Whereas that used to never be the case. It was like, what else do you do? What's

4 (43m 2s):
Such a disrespected art form? It's such like, it's something that everybody loves but nobody, nobody takes that seriously. I know. I know because it seems like the person on stage is doing what you can do. They're just talking.

5 (43m 13s):
I know. I know. But they get up there and they learn very quickly.

4 (43m 16s):
Yeah. Well if they get up there. Yeah.

5 (43m 17s):
Well you ever have a drunk person who's like, yeah, I'll do it. Sometimes I'm like, all right, let's, let's try, let's see what you got and I go and then everyone hates them. You wanted this dude.

4 (43m 26s):
Yeah, well it's just people think and then there's people that want to do it and just don't know how to do it. Yeah. There's a lot of that.

5 (43m 33s):
I'll get that after. Shows some like young comics, like what do I do? I've been writing stuff. I'm like, you just gotta get up. You just gotta walk into the fire. Yeah.

4 (43m 39s):
You just gotta do that first open mic night after the first one. It'll be a lot easier. The first one's the hardest one for sure.

5 (43m 45s):
I always tell them the first one

4 (43m 46s):
I was fucking terrified. Yeah.

5 (43m 48s):
But the fact if you even do it, do three minutes and even if it's terrible, that is 99% further than most people ever do. So many people talk but they never even like bomb for three minutes. That is a win. Even for real. 'cause you know what it feels like, at least

4 (44m 4s):
If you have gotten laughs and then you bomb, I think that's better because at least you know you can get laughs. But if you start off bombing Yeah. The road to actually getting, like if you bomb out of the gate, first time on stage, just death. Right. Not even a chuckle.

5 (44m 21s):
Another well if you come back and then

4 (44m 23s):
Another one

5 (44m 23s):
If you come back after that happens Yeah. You're an animal. Yeah. Or

4 (44m 27s):
You're a crazy person. Sure.

5 (44m 28s):
You could be crazy. But those are, those are, those are both great assets that a standup comedian

4 (44m 32s):
Occasionally. I guess the crazy person isn't always, you know, the crazy person isn't always, that's not really

5 (44m 38s):
Right. You have to harness the crazy.

4 (44m 40s):
Yeah. Some people it's not harness able. Mm. You know it's a thousand horsepower engine on a fucking kid's bike. Like what do I do with this? They have like a little kid's bike with a fucking giant, what do I know Corvette engine on it.

5 (44m 52s):
Oh I also gotta thank you because I mean it reminds me, I brought my parents to Tonight Show and that's because of your podcast. I remember I was doing, I forget which one I've been on a few times, but like you were like, have your parents seen you before? And I'm like, nah. I go, they, they saw me do the Apollo when I was 18 and then I, I got booted the Apollo and that was the first I was like a few months into doing standup and they're from Afghanistan and this is not a thing you do. And Right. They wanted me to quit and it was just very disgraceful me doing this. And they see me get booed by 4,000 people. I'm telling this story on the, I think the one or two I guess.

5 (45m 34s):
So I, I get booed off stage and all that and then you're like, they gotta come see you again man. You're great. and I go, I just have this mental block. Right. Because that was so bad, right. That I just, it's like an emotional thing. You just put in a closet and you just ignore it. Yeah. Because I just wanted to keep on doing comedy on my own and keeping my, my parents and stuff like separate. And then you're like, they gotta come see you. And then on the podcast I was like, I just always had this fantasy of like it when they see me, it being so good to counteract how bad that experience was. That it would be like a celebration that everything is okay.

5 (46m 16s):
Your son turned out okay. Right. All the worries you had You don't have to worry anymore. So I think after I spoke it into it existence on your pod, I actually went about doing it. So I hit up the Booker of the Tonight Show and I'm like, I mean, I guess I could've always done it. I just never I know the Booker. I go, can I do the Tonight Show? Like I'd love to do it. I told 'em the whole story of like, my parents have never seen me since that thing. This is like an emotional thing I need to take care of. Like, this isn't even about comedy anymore. Wow. That's crazy. This is just like healing. It's been this monkey on my back for 20 years, 21 years, you know? And then he is like, send me a tape. I sent him a tape. So I actually did the work. I finally just went about doing the work.

5 (46m 57s):
I went to the improv, I put a tape together, I sent it to him. He's like, this is great. Come and do it. So then I flew my parents out to New York and it was just very therapeutic to be able to give this to my parents because they know what The Tonight Show is. It was a celebration. It was like, this is way bigger than like, I love this Tonight Show. Thank you for letting me do it and all that stuff. But in the grand scheme of like entertainment and needle moving it, it's not what it used to be. You know? Right. Used to do Tonight Show and people are like honking and shouting your name from cars and shit.

4 (47m 28s):
That's how I found out about Richard. Jenny.

5 (47m 30s):
Oh, is Tonight Show up here? Yeah.

4 (47m 31s):
Saw a Tonight Show.

5 (47m 33s):
But this was just to give my parents a night out and a memory and a story from their parents. So I wore a suit. Oh, I brought them out. They got to, they got to meet Jimmy. They got to meet the Roots. The Roots came in Nice. And the 'cause I'm like friends with the roots somehow. So like That's amazing. Yeah, they, they're like, oh your your son is amazing, blah blah, blah. You're, you raised a good kid and all that. So it was everything I would, I could ever dream of it being and and I, that's, that stems from your pod, you know?

4 (48m 1s):
Well it stems from you dude. I know you put it together, but

5 (48m 4s):
Still it just, when you talk about things and, and you speak something into existence, I think that's valuable. You know, just this format.

4 (48m 11s):
Sure. But format. But you also have to work at it. Think about it. You gotta put that set together. You gotta work at it. Yeah. You gotta be real careful with that. Speak things into existence talk because you're a very dedicated and disciplined writer. Right. You write all the time. You're always working on new material. You're always working on your material. You put a lot of time and effort into standup comedy.

5 (48m 30s):
People say that. It's nice. Thank you. But I mean I, I just develop systems where it doesn't feel. 'cause when people are like, oh, you write a lot. It doesn't feel like I write a lot because I just have systems and processes where over time I look at my notes and I just have a bunch of stuff. It's not Right. I think people have such an aversion to writing. They think that you have to go to a log cabin. You know what I mean and there's a typewriter and then you like do a pipe and you're like, yeah, what's funny.

4 (48m 56s):
Exactly. Whereas

5 (48m 58s):
I've gotten my process to a point where I just live life and if something happens I jot it in my phone and you jot enough things in your phone. That list is pretty long. Yeah. And then I developed that Faheem works on stuff and his friends drop by show. I developed an A and during Covid on accident, like the jam in the van was the only venue doing shows. and I had already headlined there. They go, you, you wanna do another one? I'm like, how about this for an idea? I go, I just have all these bits that I never get around to trying. I mc the show. I have a piece of paper up there. I'm just kinda like reading. I'm just like spaghetti against the wall. And this goes back to people, comedy fans being savvy now where they know the process and I, I have enough fans at this point now where like they want to see how the sausage gets made, you know?

5 (49m 42s):
Yes, yes. So I do like 10 minutes in between acts, just trying stuff out and then I bring up people doing great sets. You know what I mean? So the bulk of the integrity of the show isn't based on me trying new stuff. 'cause I have great comics interspersed. Right. So it's a very low stakes way for me to try a bunch of new material. So after the great act goes, I do 10 more minutes of bullshit or whatever, bring up the next comic. So it's a safe space. Nice for me to be able to try new stuff.

4 (50m 8s):
And they know what you're doing too. Yeah.

5 (50m 10s):
The show is called Faheem Works on stuff and his friends drop by. So I think that's a good name

4 (50m 14s):
Of a show. Yeah.

5 (50m 15s):
And it mitigates expectations. I think a lot of times comics when they're like, oh man, I'm so afraid. Or I can't write stuff. It's like, make the show where you can. Mm. Because I'm Bobby sometimes. First of all, it was very cool to see Bobby on the pod. I'm surprised it took

4 (50m 30s):
I know. It took forever.

5 (50m 31s):
It took forever. I told Bobby, I'm like, I'm so glad that you finally did it. Like I wanted

4 (50m 34s):
See that. I wanted to do it forever.

5 (50m 35s):
Forever. Bobby's weird like that sometimes. Yeah.

4 (50m 39s):
Not yet. Not yet.

5 (50m 40s):
But when I

4 (50m 41s):
Don't even, we talked about dude like a hundred times whenever I'd see him at the store,

5 (50m 46s):
I know.

4 (50m 46s):
And he's just knocked the middle.

5 (50m 49s):
What made him wanna do it this time? What Put him over the top? I don't know. I should ask him. He

4 (50m 52s):
Just, you know, is gonna be in town when

5 (50m 54s):
Time's. Right.

4 (50m 55s):
We hooked it up. It was fun. It was fun hanging out with him. Yeah, he's awesome.

5 (50m 59s):
I love Bob. He was, I love, he was the first comic to take me on the road, like a headliner to actually take me on the road with him.

4 (51m 5s):
He's a genuinely sweet guy. Like genuinely sweet guy. Always has been. Yeah.

5 (51m 9s):
He's always good with other comics too.

4 (51m 10s):
He's fucking hilarious.

5 (51m 11s):
So

4 (51m 12s):
Funny. He's hilarious to hang out with too. Just

5 (51m 14s):
He's he's a feral cat. Dude, she's so funny. I had him on my pod one time and like I had an idea of where I wanted the pod to go. Yeah. and I'm just kind of like mentally trying to corral Bobby ands. No way. Oh, you can't corral Bobby. You can't. That's

4 (51m 27s):
Silly. You need a, you need like a red Red Cape

5 (51m 30s):
Toro. Yeah. I need a possum guy just to grab Bobby off the wall.

4 (51m 34s):
I spent, this is how, how stupid I am. I spent 20 minutes today watching dudes do flips over bulls.

5 (51m 41s):
Yeah.

4 (51m 43s):
Because there's dudes, this is a new sport where the bulls run at them and they flip over the bulls. They do like front flips. So they're acrobats.

5 (51m 51s):
The red cloth isn't enough.

4 (51m 53s):
Not enough. You're now counting. This is the

5 (51m 54s):
Next evolution.

4 (51m 55s):
You're counting on your knees and your ankles. These guys, oh that guy got hit. Whoa, look at this motherfucker. The leaping of the bulls. Look at this shit. Do they ever, I watch this for 20 minutes today.

5 (52m 5s):
I can't do that without the bull,

4 (52m 7s):
Bro. This is, you have to be so G, so athletic. You're avoiding horns that that goes up your asshole. You're a dead person. Yeah. and it happens. Do you all the time, man.

5 (52m 17s):
Do you think one of these guys is undefeated?

4 (52m 19s):
Nope. I guarantee you father time catches them just like it catches great fighters. I bet there's a few of those guys that hang in there a little too long.

5 (52m 28s):
The bull bull fighter.

4 (52m 29s):
Yeah. Front flip gets a little sloppy. Maybe you're, you got that one bad ankle. But I'll compensate with my right ankle. Uhuh. Not this time. It's not even

5 (52m 36s):
A flip. It's a somersault

4 (52m 38s):
This time. This time you're going. Headbut a fucking bull. It's just a I mean. But it's such a weird, listen, I prefer it to The other thing, the other bull fighting thing they do,

5 (52m 50s):
They stick 'em full of

4 (52m 51s):
Spears and they compromise it.

5 (52m 54s):
Flipping's just good fun.

4 (52m 56s):
Well it's just the whole bull fighting thing. I get it. Back in the D

5 (53m 0s):
You ever tried to flip?

4 (53m 2s):
No, I've never tried to flip.

5 (53m 3s):
I used to be able to flip. Really?

4 (53m 5s):
Oh yeah, I believe you.

5 (53m 6s):
Yeah. I learned for the high school musical. That's like the least manly story. Like you ever flipped. Yeah. How long did it

4 (53m 14s):
Take you to

5 (53m 14s):
Learn? You know, during the summertime you just have so much free time that I had my best friend across the street. I'm like, yo, come over. I'm gonna try to do a back flip. Tell me what I'm doing wrong. So he just had eyes on me. Mm. and I would try to just do it on the side yard of my parents' house. Jesus Christ. So I would run grass is pretty soft, you know, I'm not doing it on concrete. Yeah, it's soft enough. But you're 18, you have rubber bones. Right. So I would just run, do a round off to back flip. And then, but I was doing it sideways. I think when you first start you wanna see the ground the whole time. Right. 'cause you're too afraid to totally let go. Yeah. So he's like, stop going diagonal, go more. And then finally I got it.

5 (53m 54s):
So I was doing, I wasn't doing a standing back flip. I was doing a round off to back flip. And then I learned how to go off a wall. Whoa. And then that's actually easier because you just like push off the wall. It takes a lot of that rotation out. And then I learned how to have my buddy launch me. I actually posted on my Instagram. 'cause when I was shadow band, I was just posting dancing. You know what I mean? Because I, I was in, I was in jail. I was in jail. So

4 (54m 22s):
I just like, so how banned were you? Did I still still see your stuff? Or

5 (54m 25s):
Is it Well, I'm un banned users.

4 (54m 27s):
I'm But at the time when you were shadow banned, would that mean I would've a hard time seeing your stuff? Is it people that follow you

5 (54m 33s):
Knew people wouldn't be able to see me, but, but some I would able to reach some of

4 (54m 36s):
Follows. You could see you.

5 (54m 38s):
Yes. Everybody. Maybe not the entire pie, but I, if my ceiling was gonna be people who already follow me, I wasn't gonna reach any new people.

4 (54m 46s):
That's weird, isn't it?

5 (54m 47s):
Yeah. So then I didn't wanna, because I had all these jokes and stuff and I go, I don't wanna burn these Clips on a suppressed audience. Right. You know, so I just went to my archives and just reposted dance shit. But what's funny is like sometimes when you post dance stuff, it brings people who like dance that you wouldn't think like sometimes you'll like a dance thing and it throws me Oh cool. Dance stuff. It throws me for aloof. 'cause I wouldn't think Joe Rogan likes a dancing video from me. I

4 (55m 13s):
Like all kinds of things, man. Yeah.

5 (55m 16s):
And then Julia Lewis started liking some of this stuff. That's hilarious. This is like a fucking crazy world. That's hilarious. And then she, she asked a question in one of the igs and I'm like, she's like, oh yeah, did you used to do this for talent shows and stuff? And I'm like, oh, I did it for the high school musical. So is there, can you pull it up on, I'm trying to find it. I haven't found it yet. It's, I found other dance videos. I, there's too, I I have too many dance videos.

4 (55m 40s):
Let me, let's explore this. Yeah. Why is musicals not manly?

5 (55m 45s):
Probably the singing and dancing. Right.

4 (55m 47s):
Why is singing, if I had to guess singing and dancing. Not manly, particularly evolutionarily speaking because women have always been impressed by singing and dancing.

5 (55m 56s):
Yeah. But you need to

4 (55m 57s):
Think about Saturday Night Fever.

5 (55m 59s):
Yes. Right. But think about all the jealous guys and they just call Travolta gay or whatever. What? 'cause the, if the girls, like, if the girls like something that kind of blends Feminine Haters is gonna say he's gay

4 (56m 13s):
Blends feminine. Yeah. So why singing,

5 (56m 15s):
Singing and dancing.

4 (56m 16s):
Right. But why again, if, if women like it and if it's difficult to do, what makes those two things that are difficult to do that women like,

5 (56m 29s):
Because it's not a masculine. 'cause

4 (56m 31s):
Men like it watching it too though.

5 (56m 32s):
If it was rock, like if it's leather, guys can get behind that. Right.

4 (56m 36s):
But if a guy can really dance, that shit's impressive.

5 (56m 40s):
Yeah. but it has to be next level. It has to be like Michael Jackson or Prince.

4 (56m 45s):
Interesting. Like Lance

5 (56m 47s):
Or like Lance. Like

4 (56m 48s):
Lance can stops. When's Lance coming back?

5 (56m 51s):
You

4 (56m 51s):
Know? When's Lance coming back?

5 (56m 53s):
Lance? Yeah. don don't know.

4 (56m 55s):
Faheem does a character on stage called Lance Can Stops. and it was always a favorite of the Comedy Store. Is he doing Lance tonight? Is he doing Lance tonight? I think he irritated you.

5 (57m 4s):
Well nah, I mean it's fun. Like, stop asking

4 (57m 8s):
For Lance. I'm right here. Faheem Iss right here. Motherfucker

5 (57m 11s):
Like Lance's, cannibal Lance's, cannibalizing Faheem.

4 (57m 13s):
It's like that movie, what was it, the Dark half? What was that book? The Stephen King book with the, the writer like this. He's got like an evil writer in his brain that writes all the hits. Yeah. And he comes to life.

5 (57m 24s):
Well, there, I mean Lance is a part of me. The, the thing is, I almost feel like Lance is who I would be if I didn't have parents. I swear to God. 'cause my parents raised me a certain way. Right. And even when I have thoughts and stuff, there are so many gates before I kind of say, you know what, what I say. Right. I'm careful sometimes. Right. And then Lance is just pure it. Yeah. And it's dancing and it's, it's it's candy. Right. And it's so fun also as an artist too, just as a standup. 'cause when I, when I write jokes and shit, I'm like, there's, it's intricate, you know, okay, what goes here, blah, blah. Right. It's mentally taxing.

5 (58m 4s):
Right. But Lan there's no jokes. It's just you show up, they play dance music and I'm, I'm going on to the comedy store where they've seen so much high level. Yeah. Cerebral, great jokes and stuff. And then they're like, Lance against Oh yeah. Hear Bert bringing Lance up. Is there

0 (58m 32s):
Bur everybody one more time.

5 (58m 36s):
Like pure nonsense.

4 (58m 38s):
No. Amazing.

5 (58m 39s):
I know.

4 (58m 39s):
I know amazing. but it

5 (58m 41s):
Really sets

4 (58m 41s):
Do you have the wig with you?

5 (58m 42s):
I, I, I packed Lance.

4 (58m 43s):
Lance is going on stage tonight. Oh shit. Lance is going on stage tonight. I just love

5 (58m 47s):
The phrase I packed. Lance,

4 (58m 50s):
Lance is going on stage tonight. It's like, I get mad if Duncan doesn't bring little hobo. Oh yeah. Or the worst little hobo.

5 (58m 54s):
So one time when Adam was still at the store, he was, you know, the, the manager there. I went up earlier in the night in the or as me. And then my set's done and Whitney's running late. And then Adam tracks me in the hallway. He like grabs me by the shoulders and he goes, Whitney's running late get Lance. So I'm like, Superman. So I go, I go into the trunk of my car and then, and then I, you know, I turn into Lance and so this is like three or four comics later. And they, they bring, they go who's next? They go Lance Comics. Like, what the fuck? They go, all right, Lance can stop us. Then I go, I go back up for the same audience, but I'm as Lance this time and I dance and shit.

5 (59m 38s):
And then I sit on the stool and I'm like, you guys look strangely familiar. So then, then I'm like, I do a, a 10 minute lance set and then I see Whitney in the back and then, and that's hilarious. and I like ladies, ladies and gentlemen Wi Whitney comics. And so I, so I got them outta a pinch.

4 (59m 57s):
That's amazing.

5 (59m 58s):
But I've never done, I guess one other time I did do Lance on the same show like as Faheem,

4 (1h 0m 2s):
Bro. Lance will become Dice.

5 (1h 0m 4s):
Yeah. I know You can see that. 'cause it's so much fun to do.

4 (1h 0m 7s):
Do you know the Dice story?

5 (1h 0m 9s):
So, no. What was that?

4 (1h 0m 10s):
Dice's name is Andrew Silverstein. Right.

5 (1h 0m 13s):
I know. He was like a great impressionist and great actors. And he used to

4 (1h 0m 16s):
Stage, he used to do all these characters. He used to do John Travolta. He does an amazing John Travolta. Right. And then he would do this character called the Dice Man. And then the Dice Man became him. That's him doing

5 (1h 0m 27s):
Travolta.

4 (1h 0m 28s):
Listen,

9 (1h 0m 32s):
Keep making fun of my car. Lemme tell you something. This call is automatic. It's systematic. It's high. Dramatic five grease lightning. How come? Just singing

4 (1h 0m 51s):
Elvis in front of like Madison Square Garden I mean, how do you not

5 (1h 0m 55s):
Love him? and it's so good.

4 (1h 0m 56s):
It's amazing. He's amazing. That is amazing. But anyway, that became him. Ah. He became that character. That's him.

5 (1h 1m 5s):
This is it,

4 (1h 1m 6s):
Man. You're Lance.

5 (1h 1m 7s):
This is my evolution. You are Lance. I was a Caterpillar. Now you are

4 (1h 1m 9s):
Lance. I am. This is, this is my my suggestion for your next special after this one that you just did.

5 (1h 1m 15s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 1m 18s):
Half hour of you short break. Yeah. Half hour of Lance.

5 (1h 1m 24s):
So it's like speaker box and love below like the outcast album. Like half this, half that. That's pretty great. You,

4 (1h 1m 30s):
You leave the stage, the, the stage goes black for like three minutes. Yo, you fucking swap out clothes, put the wig on. Hit yourself a little dire. Oh yeah. What do they wear for the, what are people that like to wear cologne wear? What does, what does dudes who like to party a clothes Aqua

5 (1h 1m 49s):
Aqua Velva for sure.

4 (1h 1m 51s):
A guy who goes to clubs. The guy's like, what's up girls? Like what, what's that guy wearing?

5 (1h 1m 56s):
Oh yeah. What's, what's the

4 (1h 1m 57s):
Gold chains? What's that guy wearing?

5 (1h 1m 59s):
Jean jacket obviously. Wife beater underneath.

4 (1h 2m 1s):
Right. What is the smell though?

5 (1h 2m 3s):
Probably I typed in cheesy guy Cologne in the, this bottle popped up all some

4 (1h 2m 6s):
People really into Cologne, man. Did

5 (1h 2m 9s):
You ever get

4 (1h 2m 9s):
Sean Paul Guttier cologne? When I was a kid I had Kar Noir. Oh that was a big one. and I Kar was the big, I heard about all the guys. Hey, you gotta get dka girls love it. Do they smell was good? I have no idea. What

5 (1h 2m 21s):
Do you think? Some girls like

4 (1h 2m 23s):
Knows what the fuck he's doing. Cool. Water was big in the nineties.

5 (1h 2m 26s):
Cool water. Oh yeah. Ooh. Oh. Tommy was big for me growing up. And then a polo sport was, was a hot fragrance.

4 (1h 2m 33s):
I used to do the Old Spice and after shave. Mm. Well you fucking splasher your hands. You sting your face. Who

5 (1h 2m 40s):
Remember that? It's functional though too. 'cause if I don't do that and I shave with a razor, you'll get ingrown. So listen

4 (1h 2m 45s):
To you. It's functional. You just go back. It's engineer.

5 (1h 2m 48s):
Just do Lance. Yo it burned, but it feel good. You just fucking splashed that on your face.

4 (1h 2m 52s):
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. You're

5 (1h 2m 54s):
Like Kevin McCallister

4 (1h 2m 55s):
Dude. I think Lance,

5 (1h 2m 57s):
It's fun. Like I'm bringing him back. I've been doing it more at the store.

4 (1h 2m 59s):
Would you do that though? That that my idea for a special

5 (1h 3m 2s):
Show. I, I I would,

4 (1h 3m 3s):
I'll produce it. Oh yeah. How about that?

5 (1h 3m 5s):
Also? 'cause this is my third traditional special. Like I've done it, you know what I mean? Right. So it's kind of, you get bored and there's enough digital IP out there of me doing straight standup.

4 (1h 3m 17s):
Well, you can do both though. That's the beauty of what you've got going on, is that you could just do an entire Lance tour if you wanted to. Or an entire Faheem tour if you want. Yeah. You do whatever

5 (1h 3m 26s):
You want. I also had this idea too, because like Lance just loves everything. He thinks he can do everything. He, he can be an actor. He wants to be in action movies. He wants to, he wants to sing and do music. So like, I might wanna do like, where it's like a documentary of like, Lance putting out an album and an ep and so, so, so, so he like Tours America doing like shitty venues, but he has like three songs on an album. And then the in-between of doing Songs is just like doing crowd work. Like, thank you for supporting live music and everything. And like, how I came up with this song, I was like taking a shit at Chipotle. And like just the chords came to me, hid it, you know. So it's like half music. Right. Half comedy.

5 (1h 4m 7s):
Right. That could be a fun, different type of special to do.

4 (1h 4m 10s):
Yeah. I just love, I love when someone busts out a character, you know?

5 (1h 4m 14s):
Yeah. Yeah. There's

4 (1h 4m 15s):
A few things. You don't see that much in standup anymore. You don't see like a character because

5 (1h 4m 20s):
It's scary. You'll get shit on a lot when, when you're a young comic. If you do something kind of non-traditional, you can get shit on. So like, luckily Lance happened after I was really established at a comedy store. Like I already had. No, no,

4 (1h 4m 33s):
No. Lance is good. It doesn't

5 (1h 4m 35s):
Matter. I I know I know.

4 (1h 4m 36s):
But even if you weren't established, if you came in and just did Lance, sure. People would think, oh my God, it's hilarious.

5 (1h 4m 40s):
But Lance was able to thrive because I already had the for real. Lance is

4 (1h 4m 44s):
Another person. Dude.

5 (1h 4m 45s):
He is, he,

4 (1h 4m 45s):
What is that Stevie King book? He is

5 (1h 4m 47s):
The Right,

4 (1h 4m 47s):
I think so. Is it dark Half

5 (1h 4m 49s):
Lance was able to thrive because I was already beloved at the store. Like I, I had earned their respect and stuff. Right. And so, 'cause if you start killing with a character and no one knows who you are, right. You're gonna get shit on by the like elders and stuff. Like, so it might take Oh, not

4 (1h 5m 3s):
At the store

5 (1h 5m 4s):
If it's, it's a harder sell than if you have no history as a traditional comic yet. Like, it seems like hacky or a trick. So the fact that I can do straights,

4 (1h 5m 12s):
But it's not of it's good. The dark half. Yeah. Is that right? Thad Beaumont, a parasitic twin removed from inside his skull when he was 12. What? Since then, he has become a critically acclaimed literary writer and a blockbuster crime writer under the pseudonym George Stark who goes on a murderous rampage when Thad kills him off. Is that Yeah, that's what you were thinking of. Yeah. That's the book. Right? It's a crazy, crazy book.

5 (1h 5m 36s):
I mean it's fun doing different character. That's you bro. Music

4 (1h 5m 39s):
Stuff Lance is inside of again.

5 (1h 5m 40s):
I did a pro. Can you pull it up? 'cause I uploaded it.

4 (1h 5m 42s):
Need to feed Lance.

5 (1h 5m 43s):
I will feed Lance for sure. Lance

4 (1h 5m 44s):
Gonna go on a murderous

5 (1h 5m 45s):
Ramp page. This this is gonna be sort of the way that Tonight Show thing was spoken into existence. This is the new, this the new thing. Can you pull up? I did a promo, like a music video for my special, this it just reminded me of the music.

4 (1h 5m 59s):
I, I think comics are open to anybody trying anything as long as it's really good. But the problem, we don't put that same scrutiny on someone trying stand up for the first time. You know, like we see someone doing at open mic night, you expect 'em to suck. It's just so fucking hard. Yeah. But if you see someone doing an open mic night and sucking as a character, you're like, you ain't never gonna make it bitch.

5 (1h 6m 22s):
Right. Key turn up.

4 (1h 6m 24s):
What is this? I have a special promo for comedy Special House Money

10 (1h 6m 30s):
Special. I,

5 (1h 6m 32s):
Instead of doing a trailer for my special, I'm like, let me just do a music video. So this kid McCone, he directed it. He does a lot of bad friend stuff too. So we bang this out in a day.

4 (1h 6m 47s):
You know, it's disturbing that, that that guy could be a very popular music artist. That could be your third career. Your third career is

5 (1h 6m 55s):
Like super I mean. The British actor

4 (1h 6m 56s):
Super emo

5 (1h 6m 57s):
Is so thick and

4 (1h 6m 58s):
Satirical, satirical British emo songs. I'm not kidding.

5 (1h 7m 3s):
I was listening to Tears for Fears and I'm like, this has to be my promo,

4 (1h 7m 6s):
Bro. If, if you go like way over the top tears for fears, like over to the next level of dismay. So

5 (1h 7m 13s):
British.

4 (1h 7m 14s):
Yeah. Over the top like Obn. So over the top. You could be. That's your next career, bro. That's your third career.

5 (1h 7m 19s):
This is my, I'm just stacking careers today.

4 (1h 7m 20s):
Yeah. You're gonna stack careers. You're gonna be a mock emo singer from the UK

5 (1h 7m 27s):
Somewhere

4 (1h 7m 28s):
Where it never sunny. So on a Scotland or some shit

5 (1h 7m 31s):
On a lineup. Who goes where? Obviously I can't follow Lance. So Lance closes up. So it'd be me.

4 (1h 7m 36s):
Lance has to close this guy opens

5 (1h 7m 37s):
This guy. Oh, he opens. This

4 (1h 7m 38s):
Guy opens. He opens with his corny songs. Right, right. You have these songs. Everybody goes nuts. Right. Short break. You come back as Faheem

5 (1h 7m 46s):
And then everyone sticks off hard for

4 (1h 7m 48s):
Short

5 (1h 7m 49s):
Break. You kind of hear like, yeah,

4 (1h 7m 51s):
Lads,

5 (1h 7m 51s):
La la la. Like on a Bleachers dude. And then a spotlight. I'm bullshitting.

4 (1h 7m 56s):
The first one's probably a bad idea. The singing's probably a bad idea. Right, right, right. But the other two are really good ideas. Those are real. But the singing could make it if you really like,

5 (1h 8m 3s):
I don't want it to make it. It's wonderful point. It was just a fun promo to do

4 (1h 8m 5s):
Point if you wanted to prove a point. If you had like this thing in the back of your head and you're like, you know what,

5 (1h 8m 9s):
I don't

4 (1h 8m 10s):
You

5 (1h 8m 10s):
Fucking think like, get my Eddie Murphy on. Yeah. My party all the time. My girl wants That's a jam though.

4 (1h 8m 15s):
That is a fucking jam. Let's put that on the Green Room playlist.

5 (1h 8m 18s):
My girl that was produced by Rick James. Right?

11 (1h 8m 26s):
It was

4 (1h 8m 27s):
Joey Diaz. You're on the podcast. Yo.

11 (1h 8m 30s):
I love you brother. Where you been? You don't call You, don't write copy.

4 (1h 8m 33s):
I called you yesterday. Hey, I'm here with Faheem.

5 (1h 8m 36s):
I love you Joey. How are you?

4 (1h 8m 38s):
You gotta talk loud. He can't hear you. He doesn't have

5 (1h 8m 40s):
Joey. I love you, man. How are you?

11 (1h 8m 42s):
I love you brother. I can hear you. Listen.

4 (1h 8m 45s):
Is that, oh, don't tell everybody they'll know now. The whole world's gonna know. Yes. I love you. I'll talk to you soon. Bye. Bye.

5 (1h 8m 54s):
He's such a sweet guy, man. Like, I can

4 (1h 8m 56s):
Mute it. I can, we'll figure,

5 (1h 8m 57s):
Mute it. Something

4 (1h 8m 58s):
Don don't want people to know when he's coming. Okay.

5 (1h 9m 0s):
All right. Mute it. I didn't

4 (1h 9m 1s):
Have, one of the fun things about the club is no one knows who's gonna be on stage.

5 (1h 9m 5s):
I see it 'cause I follow the Instagram account. Obviously it's, it's fun.

4 (1h 9m 8s):
Any pun like who's in town? And especially when we do protect our parks. Ah. And then it's Ari and

5 (1h 9m 13s):
Norman. It's fun seeing that pop. 'cause the audience is losing their fucking minds. Yeah,

4 (1h 9m 18s):
It's fun. The

5 (1h 9m 19s):
Crowd is like, oh

4 (1h 9m 19s):
My God. It's just a, it is a fun place, man. And you were a part of the beginning of this. You really were. 'cause you were like one of the first comics that took a chance. Moved out here.

5 (1h 9m 29s):
Thanks man. I mean, it's very cool to see the scene grow and continue to grow. And part of you thinks like, how big can it get?

4 (1h 9m 36s):
And it can get pretty fucking big

5 (1h 9m 37s):
And it can get pretty big. Man.

4 (1h 9m 38s):
It can get pretty big because there's a lot of new people that are doing it and they're really dedicated.

5 (1h 9m 41s):
Well, and if you're a young comic, this, this seems way more viable than a place like New York or LA that's super saturated. And even if you're funny, it's, it's hard. It's hard to get on stage. Whereas there's more stage time out here.

4 (1h 9m 54s):
There's a ton of stage time and it's just like a, it's a different environment. and I always say that. This is my girl ponds to party all the time. Rick James, remember you wrote Gimme some. Gimme some.

5 (1h 10m 5s):
Yeah. Come on. Oh, I love this shit.

4 (1h 10m 8s):
Oh, we get kicked off YouTube. Yeah. Really? We're back on

5 (1h 10m 10s):
YouTube now. Oh yeah. Well congrats on you. You know, being back and the deal.

4 (1h 10m 14s):
Yeah. So we, but we can't play music anymore.

5 (1h 10m 16s):
Imagine. Gotcha.

4 (1h 10m 17s):
So whack. Do you think that we should do my girl Monster party? Don't do

5 (1h 10m 23s):
It too good. It's the road remix.

4 (1h 10m 24s):
Dave, if I do it too good, it'll pick up on the algorithm. Is there a way we can just say, put the full things on Spotify and just cut out the music chunks and tell people we're doing it?

5 (1h 10m 37s):
Just trying to figure out on the fly.

4 (1h 10m 38s):
We might have to tell people we're doing it. don don't like being hindered by this nonsense.

5 (1h 10m 42s):
We, we wanna hear party all the time. But

4 (1h 10m 44s):
It's also, it's like, what is fair use? You know? How does that

5 (1h 10m 48s):
Work? don? Don't know the rulings on stuff.

4 (1h 10m 51s):
You should be able to talk about one of the greatest fucking things of

5 (1h 10m 54s):
Songs by a comedian.

4 (1h 10m 55s):
How many, how many entertainers have ever done as many things as Eddie Murphy has? That's nuts.

5 (1h 10m 59s):
Well, that's what's crazy. He did one or how many specials? Two. Two or three in his all

4 (1h 11m 3s):
Times. Great. Two big ones. An album. He's album

5 (1h 11m 5s):
Too. Beverly Hills Cop comes out I think this week. Oh. Or something. That's so cool. Or

4 (1h 11m 9s):
Something. Dude, if he wanted to do standup right now, if he just wanted to jump back on stage right now, he would start murdering Of course right away. Murdering,

5 (1h 11m 16s):
Even watching his comedians in cars. Just being,

4 (1h 11m 20s):
Yeah, it's, it's a

5 (1h 11m 20s):
Tragedy. Talking to Jerry, there's so many great bits in in conversation with him.

4 (1h 11m 24s):
Great tragedy that that guy doesn't do standup, but he doesn't want to. So whatever.

5 (1h 11m 28s):
Did you watch SNLI?

4 (1h 11m 31s):
I watched Shane's monologue. Yeah. Yeah. and I watched the Trump sneakers bit.

5 (1h 11m 35s):
That's great man. He's such a good sketch performer. Like he's amazing. Yeah. It's rare that someone is really good at standup and is great at Sketch like that too.

4 (1h 11m 43s):
He said he had a good time. He said they were, for the most part. They were cool to him. Yeah. Yeah. He said it was a, it was a good experience. He's glad he did it.

5 (1h 11m 51s):
I'm glad he did too. It's one of the few times that it's been appointment viewing for SNL, you know? Mm. For especially for comics and stuff. The ratings, everyone rating through

4 (1h 12m 1s):
The roof. The bananas. Yeah. I bet the ratings are bananas.

5 (1h 12m 4s):
My favorite from their, when he was on is that Limu IMU sketch. but it got cut for time and I'm watching on the internet. I go, they didn't air this. This is the best sketch.

4 (1h 12m 14s):
Well

5 (1h 12m 16s):
You know. Yeah. They have, you know, they, they run their show. There's a certain order and maybe they, it got cut for time or something. But when I'm watching it I'm like, this is the best.

4 (1h 12m 23s):
Imagine putting it together a new show every week and it not sucking. Right. What are the odds? What are the odds? That's so hard to do. I know. Put together a new show every week. That's so hard to do.

5 (1h 12m 34s):
Did that show mean anything to you growing up?

4 (1h 12m 37s):
Yes. Yeah, definitely. The John Belushi days. Man. I used to watch that. If, if you watch some of those episodes now, you could never do any of what they were doing. They had some of the wildest shows. Those shows were great. The old Saturday Night lives were fucking great. They were really fun.

5 (1h 12m 59s):
Well that was the only place to see something like that too. Only

4 (1h 13m 1s):
Place. It was nuts, you know. And then in Living Color came around. Oh

5 (1h 13m 5s):
Man, I loved In Living

4 (1h 13m 6s):
Color. In

5 (1h 13m 7s):
Living Color was, I love That's NL Too

4 (1h 13m 8s):
Insane In Living Color was insane. People forgot how good that was. I remember I was at a pool hall the first time I saw it. It was like, I think it was one of those Super Bowl days where like they put had in living color on like during halftime. I think it was. That was the deal. 'cause everybody was watching in Living Color. It was a good, it was. And we were wa I was like, I was watching Jim Carrey as Fire Al Bill with his face all burned off. Yeah. I'm like, this is insane.

5 (1h 13m 31s):
What is this? Lemme tell you something.

4 (1h 13m 32s):
There was nothing like that that had ever been on television before. and it was on Fox, right? Yeah. Because Fox took like more chances back then, right? They had the Simpsons. They had like little Wilder stuff married with children, right? Oh yeah. A little more racy. Yeah, I saw that. I was like, are you outta your fucking mind?

5 (1h 13m 48s):
It's

4 (1h 13m 48s):
Crazy. This you mocking a bird victim.

5 (1h 13m 50s):
I know

4 (1h 13m 51s):
On on tv.

5 (1h 13m 53s):
He that he auditioned for SNL.

4 (1h 13m 54s):
The show was nuts man. How about handyman? Oh

5 (1h 13m 57s):
My God. He had a

4 (1h 13m 58s):
Handicap

5 (1h 13m 58s):
Superhero with Damon Waynes Damon

4 (1h 13m 60s):
Wayans as Handyman was hilarious. He did a movie called Handyman. I

5 (1h 14m 3s):
Forgot they did a movie,

4 (1h 14m 5s):
Bro.

5 (1h 14m 6s):
Are you saying they couldn't do handyman today Joe? Yeah.

4 (1h 14m 9s):
These guys. Are you saying

5 (1h 14m 10s):
They couldn't do Men On Film? Yeah.

4 (1h 14m 13s):
Men on Film. Yeah. The Men On Film was hilariously.

5 (1h 14m 17s):
Oh. Oh. I got to work with David Allen Greer when I did like a small guest star on Gerard Show when it was on NBC, that Carmichael Show. and I was just so starstruck 'cause like I grew up watching, but he's this, this thespian guy, man, even before Living Color, he was just this tremendous actor. But he has this crazy comedy gear as well. Right? But that was so cool,

4 (1h 14m 37s):
Wanda. Oh my gosh. Oh

5 (1h 14m 38s):
Yeah. Jimmy Fox

4 (1h 14m 39s):
Is Wanda. Oh my God. You could never, not a fucking million years

5 (1h 14m 45s):
Did you see him come by the store and

4 (1h 14m 46s):
Stuff. Dave Dema talked about this, but it is a real thing.

5 (1h 14m 49s):
What?

4 (1h 14m 51s):
Why do they in so many scripts want masculine black men to dress like women? How many times has that happened?

5 (1h 15m 0s):
It's a thing. You know, it's a trope. Right?

4 (1h 15m 2s):
That's a crazy trope. That's a crazy trope. When I think don don't remember who Dave was talking to. I forget who he was talking to, but he was explaining this.

5 (1h 15m 13s):
Wasn't Kat talking about that too, where he is like, oh yeah, I'll, can't we just rewrite it to where that's not in there?

4 (1h 15m 18s):
Well it's a real thing. I mean how many examples are there? And who's writing it?

5 (1h 15m 25s):
You would think at this point, it's such a cliche that you would censor yourself be like, okay, this is almost hack at this point. Like, let me not put this in here.

4 (1h 15m 34s):
It's, it's a weird thing to ask someone to do. It's weird thing to say, Hey, that guy with all the big muscles, let's put him in a dress.

5 (1h 15m 47s):
It'll

4 (1h 15m 47s):
Be funny. And give him lipstick and give him a wig and give him high heels and call him Wanda.

5 (1h 15m 54s):
It's gotta be tough too where you go. 'cause it's a big break for some people and you go, I don't want to do this.

4 (1h 15m 59s):
Right. Well the Jamie Fox one guaranteed it was their idea. 'cause it's just a funny character. It's just you couldn't do that today. Yeah, right. You couldn't do that today. That would, what would that be?

5 (1h 16m 9s):
I'm kinda like that when it comes to like terrorist shit. You know like, like because you know, when you're a young performer, an actor, sometimes the opportunities come through. They go, Hey, will you say a lock bar on CSI or some shit? You know what I mean? I go, don don't know how much this helps my career. You know? Like how am I gonna level up from saying all OG bar and just like disappearing. Yeah. Right. So it's really not net positive. And I'm trying to be a standup comedian. So if I was just trying to be an actor, right. Then sometimes you're stuck doing like Samuel Jackson had to do some parts that maybe he didn't love doing early on his, his career. Oh, for sure. Yeah,

4 (1h 16m 45s):
For sure. But it's just that, that particular one, getting black men to dress up like women.

5 (1h 16m 50s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 16m 51s):
That's a fucking weird one. Man. That's a real one and a weird one. It's a weird one. Like there's so many examples of it. Yeah. And if you think about white men, like muscular white men, how many times have muscular white men been asked to dress up like women for funny, way less. Right? Fucking way less, way more white men in movies. Way less white men wearing dresses. That's crazy. You got Mrs. Doubtfire. But that's a character that he's doing. Right? That's kind of different. 'cause he's not because

5 (1h 17m 19s):
He's immersed. He looks like Mrs. Doubtfire. Yeah,

4 (1h 17m 22s):
He's

5 (1h 17m 22s):
All in. He's got Rob bad outfit. Yeah. You don't even know. That's Robin Williams under that. Right.

4 (1h 17m 25s):
But what was the two won food? Julie Newman. Yeah. Yeah. That was like they were all drag queens. John

5 (1h 17m 31s):
Leguizamo.

4 (1h 17m 31s):
But that's drag queens.

5 (1h 17m 33s):
Okay.

4 (1h 17m 33s):
Little different, right? Because they're all drag queens. Right. So Wesley Snipes gets a pass on on that one. Oh yeah. Wesley Snipes sort. 'cause he's one of the drag queens. Yeah.

5 (1h 17m 40s):
I love Wesley

4 (1h 17m 41s):
Snipes. but it was just Wesley in a dress. He'd be like, what the fuck is going on with this movie? Do

5 (1h 17m 45s):
You think it was initially, do you think it was initially Wesley? Yes. and I go. He needs let's, let's surround him so it's not so obvious. Let's give him some friends. Exactly.

4 (1h 17m 51s):
That's how you pull it

5 (1h 17m 52s):
Off. It's like when you get condoms at the store, but then you have a banana and then like some candy just to throw you off a scent. Yeah.

4 (1h 18m 1s):
That's hilarious.

5 (1h 18m 2s):
Leg was amo man. I love him. He's so good.

4 (1h 18m 4s):
He's great. In John Wick.

5 (1h 18m 6s):
Oh he's he's in that. Yeah. Is that the latest one?

4 (1h 18m 8s):
No, he's he was in the first one. Oh, okay. He's the guy that tells John Wick who killed his dog.

5 (1h 18m 15s):
I always think it's so funny, man. Like that's how much Americans, just people in general love dogs where this guy's dog gets killed and then he John Wick murders. Like thousands of people. Like hundred people. And then everyone in the movie theater's like, yeah, that check that checks out. Yeah.

4 (1h 18m 28s):
That's how it works. That's what you

5 (1h 18m 29s):
Works, bro. A thousand human lives for a dog.

4 (1h 18m 32s):
You don't kill a puppy. A piece of shit. It's a fucking puppy. I remember was trying to, and he stole his car too. Don't forget that I

5 (1h 18m 37s):
Was trying to watch that movie with my girlfriend 'cause I had heard it was That's hilarious. Yeah. And then she's like, no, don don't wanna want you. Like a puppy gets hurt. I go, they don't show it. It's not like the whole, like they don't show it like get, you know what I mean? Right. And also it's just a jumping off point for the movie. Right. It's not like it's a, a puppy's getting worked over for two hours. You know, like where are the Diamonds puppy? I'm like, I'll I'll tell you when the part's over. Right. And she just didn't even like the thought that a puppy gets hurt. Right. So she mentally couldn't ever get into John Wick.

4 (1h 19m 9s):
Oh my God. Yeah. You gotta get fast forward to that part. Right.

5 (1h 19m 14s):
I'd be like, no, the puppy lives in this version. Just

4 (1h 19m 17s):
Past the puppy part.

5 (1h 19m 18s):
Yeah. Even that wasn't enough. I couldn't trick her into watching it. Oh. I had to do a solo.

4 (1h 19m 23s):
But that's like the Barbie movie for dudes.

5 (1h 19m 26s):
That's a good point. Yeah. It

4 (1h 19m 27s):
Is basically the same thing because girls do not wanna sit there and watch this handsome man assassinated just fuck 50 people, people up. But every guy does. You're

5 (1h 19m 35s):
Like, babe, wake up. Come on. Every

4 (1h 19m 37s):
Guy you're missing. You're missing him. Dude. There's a scene where John Wick goes into the bathhouse and he's trying to kill vi's son. And he, he essentially assassinates all the assassins in the ba, the bathhouse. It's like one of the most intense scenes in the history of fucking action movies. It's so good that when I was doing the sober October challenge with Tom and Ari and Bert and we had a fitness challenge and I just stayed on the elliptical machine watching that scene like over and over and over again. This fucking scene is intense man. The the first John Wick is absolutely my favorite John Wick. Because how many

5 (1h 20m 15s):
Are to now

4 (1h 20m 16s):
There's four. They get a little cartoony. They're still fun. But it's a different thing. Right?

5 (1h 20m 20s):
Well once you get deep in the franchise it gets cartoony.

4 (1h 20m 23s):
Yeah. The first John Wick was the shit. It was the shit. Such a good movie. It's just fun. Yeah. Yee-haw,

5 (1h 20m 33s):
Brainless.

4 (1h 20m 34s):
Take me away. Brainless for two hours. Oh

5 (1h 20m 36s):
There's a place for that. Yeah. Oppenheimer, I'm like learning all this stuff, you know? Right.

4 (1h 20m 41s):
Like

5 (1h 20m 41s):
I feel like when if if they wheel I mean they don't wheel TVs in anymore, but when the teachers turn on Oppenheimer, you know the classes are fucking lit.

4 (1h 20m 49s):
Oh yeah.

5 (1h 20m 49s):
Because that's, that's like educational and awesome.

4 (1h 20m 52s):
Educational awesome And days.

5 (1h 20m 54s):
Yeah. Some days I think a lot of kids are gonna get into science 'cause of the fucking, that's

4 (1h 20m 57s):
The crazy thing about scientists man, is that they were all like intellectual rock stars. Like these wild renegade people. Yeah. and I, lot of 'em did some fucking and I think that was also part of the appeal of being a great scientist is that you had like groupies, you know, just like singers.

5 (1h 21m 16s):
Well I've noticed that about any profession or art form. Form. If you're a guy and you just excel in whatever field it is you are, there are gonna be women who are attracted to that field. Even if it's stamp collecting. Bro. Just women are attracted to excellence in, in no matter how niche a thing might be,

4 (1h 21m 33s):
Professional pool players would always bat way over their heads with girls who played pool. Like guys who like really good pool players. They always did way better with girls than they should have.

5 (1h 21m 42s):
Even standup. Like if I didn't have standup, I don't think I would be, if I was still an engineer at Boeing.

4 (1h 21m 48s):
You're a handsome guy, you'd find

5 (1h 21m 49s):
A nice girl. No, but comedy. Comedy, you'd

4 (1h 21m 51s):
Have a family by now. I

5 (1h 21m 52s):
Would.

4 (1h 21m 52s):
You'd have a bunch of kids and a dog

5 (1h 21m 53s):
I think about that.

4 (1h 21m 54s):
Have to get the dog trained. 'cause it runs in this train

5 (1h 21m 56s):
Pretty much damnit like entertainment is such arrested development because all that, all the trappings of a traditional life are weight if you're trying to make it with a certain thing. Right. So I think we hit these benchmarks later in life and it's hard, especially when you have like parents who there's a certain time to be doing certain things.

4 (1h 22m 16s):
Yeah.

5 (1h 22m 17s):
Right. Like I should have a house, I should have a wife, I should have kids. Yeah. I should have a dog. But to do what we do is so labor intensive and hard and Yeah. So you, it delays your life a few years or at least for these traditional benchmarks.

4 (1h 22m 33s):
Yeah. You can't, if you're gonna go down this road, it's 10 years before you're any good. Yeah. It's a long ass road. I mean you can get pretty good before then. But to, to really like get say like I think that's okay. I think other people can listen to this. I think other people can watch this. It's like 10 years

5 (1h 22m 49s):
And also to get some footing career wise and financially only in the last couple of years have I felt kind of comfortable in this as a profession. 'cause when I left Boeing, it just felt like, did I make a mistake? Right. You can't see the other end of the shore. Yeah. So it's, it's hard operating from that space of like, is this a, a viable career? Am I have I do I have I planned enough roots in the comedy game and, and like things are better now. So

4 (1h 23m 18s):
If you're good and you believe you're good, you gotta burn the boats. Yeah. You gotta burn the boats.

5 (1h 23m 23s):
I, well I wouldn't have been doing it if I didn't believe that I had the aptitude.

4 (1h 23m 28s):
If you have a boat Yeah. To get back to your air conditioned house and eat mangoes, you're gonna get back on the fucking boat. You gotta burn the boat. Yeah. 100%. I like that boat.

5 (1h 23m 39s):
And Gatica. You ever watch Gatica? It's one of my favorite movies.

4 (1h 23m 42s):
Watched a little bit of it.

5 (1h 23m 43s):
It's so good. Ethan Hawk, that's Yes. And Uma Thurman I

4 (1h 23m 46s):
Think. Yes. It's

5 (1h 23m 47s):
About genetics and stuff. I

4 (1h 23m 48s):
Was confusing it with a television show.

5 (1h 23m 50s):
Oh. But there's this poignant scene. Which

4 (1h 23m 52s):
1:00 AM I confusing it with? Battlestar Galactica. No, I watched all

5 (1h 23m 55s):
That. That's great too. Battlestar

4 (1h 23m 56s):
Galactica. Iss A fucking

5 (1h 23m 57s):
Guy. Is Baltar is that,

4 (1h 23m 58s):
That is one of the most under grade series. The second one.

5 (1h 24m 1s):
I was watching it when it was on Sci-fi and they were shooting it in Vancouver. It the movie about Christopher before CRISPR

4 (1h 24m 5s):
Existed. Gatica. That's it. So good man. That's right.

5 (1h 24m 8s):
So there's two brothers. One of them is Gen Genetically designed and everything. Right. He has all the gifts of technology and then Ethan Hawk is like a natural baby, which is kind of a second class citizen. Yeah, that's so kind of sh that they, they clean, they're like janitors and stuff. And there's this point in the movie where they used to race or they used to swim and the genetically superior brother would always beat the, the natural baby Ethan Hawk. And then when they kind of lose touch and at the end they do it one last time. You know, and so Ethan Hawk is winning and, and this isn't supposed to be happening. And he is like, how are you doing this? And he's like, I never save anything for the swim back. And just that quote, it just fucking hits me because he is doing what's not supposed to be happening.

5 (1h 24m 55s):
You know Jesus.

4 (1h 24m 56s):
Yeah. It's

5 (1h 24m 57s):
A good movie. It's my favorite I mean if there's one takeaway from me doing Joe Rogan podcast, it's watch Gatica. One time I showed it to a girlfriend like it, I don't

4 (1h 25m 5s):
Think I've seen this whole movie. I think this is one of those movies that I started and something happened. I got distracted and I stopped watching.

5 (1h 25m 10s):
Please watch it.

4 (1h 25m 11s):
I will. I so many of them man I know I can't keep up. I can't keep up. I did watch Oppenheimer though. Fucking fascinating.

5 (1h 25m 19s):
Yeah. I didn't know him and Einstein were boys. That was cool. I didn't know they talked at a pond that much.

4 (1h 25m 23s):
Yeah. I wonder how much that's legit. You know, you can write a lot of

5 (1h 25m 27s):
It looks, it looks good. You

4 (1h 25m 28s):
Can write a lot of nonsense into a movie right after someone's dead. And then he said Bitches ain't shit. Right. I never said that. I never fucking said that. I didn't I even say that I mean you could really I know I did. You could kind of like paint a person

5 (1h 25m 44s):
For

4 (1h 25m 45s):
Sure. You know that was a thing that, a big criticism that people had from the Bruce Lee scene in Once Upon a Time in Hollywood.

5 (1h 25m 53s):
But that was obviously comedy. That was interesting when that that really no sort of, I read it as comedy.

4 (1h 25m 59s):
No. Tarantino kind of defended it and he said that Bruce Lee was like known for being very arrogant and he said something about he would, he'd beat Muhammad Ali in a fight. I'm like, that's crazy if you really said that. That's so insane.

5 (1h 26m 11s):
He

4 (1h 26m 12s):
Was a coffee guy. Briley was 135 pounds. Muhammad Ali at the time was 2 22 25. The greatest boxer of all time. Yeah. Heavyweight. Knock it outta heavyweights.

5 (1h 26m 22s):
Yeah. That would've been a great USC match just Ali

4 (1h 26m 25s):
Versus especially if you're talking about him in like 1967 before they made him retire for three years. He was insanely good. Like if you wanna watch how good Muhammad Ali was, watch Muhammad Ali in 1967 when he fights Cleveland Big Cat Williams. I always tell him, watch that fight. 'cause Cleveland Williams is this murderous puncher and Muhammad Ali is putting on a show, he's dancing and moving like you can't believe like no heavyweight before him remotely moved like him. It's so hard to put it in perspective now because we think about fighters now. Like we've seen so many great heavyweights, we've seen so many great welterweights and light heavyweights and it, the world of boxing, like we have so much footage.

4 (1h 27m 7s):
But back then in 1967, there's nobody doing that. Where's your footage? Where you, you you gonna get a projecting screen and sit down? If it's not on tv, yeah you're not gonna see it. So you watch whatever the fuck they show you on tv. And no one had ever seen a guy move like that, especially in the heavyweight division. He moved like Sugar Ray Robinson who was 147 pounder. Is there

5 (1h 27m 31s):
Anyone comparable you would say nowadays like that?

4 (1h 27m 33s):
No. No. There's no one, there's no one comparable in terms of like how different they were than everyone before them. He was so different. Could you please show me some of the Cleveland Big Cat Williams, Muhammad Ali highlights, bro. He was so different. He would knock guys out moving backwards. You know, he, he decided when he would take it up a notch, he'd, he'd put, put different paces on you. Pop the jab on, you move, make you miss a bunch of times. Make you feel stupid, drop his hands, pop you again. Pop you again. Move around, move around. You can't catch him. And when you are thinking about boxing in 1967, there's no heavyweights that move like this.

4 (1h 28m 16s):
They don't exist man. This guy is a freak. So everybody before him moves like Cleveland does, you know, moving forward, look at the land, the big power shots and look how big Cleveland was. Jesus Christ is he jacked. Look at the fucking arms on that guy. Murderous, puncher. Very dangerous guy. And Ali's just dancing in front of him, just shuffling and dancing just outta range. And then eventually he starts catching him, just starts tuning him up. Scooch ahead a little bit here. So once he gets loose, he starts opening up with combinations and he moves away and then Cleveland moves forward and he pops him with a jab, pops him with a hook.

4 (1h 28m 57s):
And now Cleveland's befuddled. Right? Because now you know I can't hit this fucking guy and he can hit me anytime he wants. Which is just, that's not how boxing is in the heavyweight division. Yeah, the you have big power punchers with big jabs and guys with great technique. You got Joe Lewis and you know you got Floyd Patterson, you got all these different great heavyweights, but none of 'em fight like this fucking guy. None of them fight like this

5 (1h 29m 21s):
Guy did he slowly charge, kind of was the style before Ali just sort of like slow and steady? Well

4 (1h 29m 25s):
Everybody was just power punchers in the heavyweight division. They'd just move forward. They would throw good jabs, they had good boxing fundamentals, but they didn't move with the footwork like that. The footwork was insane. So if you're standing in front of them, the realization after three or four rounds of this is like, I can't take too many more of these. He's not hitting me with one knockout punch, but he's hitting me 150 times in the face and he's hitting me in a way that I can't hit him back. Look at this is popping, this jab just moving and effortlessly. He would run Miles backwards is the one too. That's it. That's the beginning of it. He would run miles backwards, backwards, run backwards.

5 (1h 30m 1s):
So just insane cardio too

4 (1h 30m 3s):
Insane cardio, insane dedication. So this is the one of the most tragic from a boxer's a a boxing fan's perspective. One of the most tragic things in boxing is that they took it away from him for three years and he was never really this guy again. Mm. This guy that you see here in 67, he stopped training when he came back and, and and fought after that. He just didn't look like the same guy. He wasn't the same guy physically. He didn't, you know, maintain his training during those three years off. Look at that dude. Look how good he was. I mean. Are you fucking kidding me? Are you fucking kidding me? He's nuts. So that was like the most revolutionary thing in boxing.

4 (1h 30m 45s):
Like that guy in 1967, like one of the most revolutionary things ever. He a heavyweight move like that. And then he got Tyson in the eighties.

5 (1h 30m 53s):
Yeah, well then he was out of his prime too for a bit, right?

4 (1h 30m 56s):
Yep. Yeah, but he had already, was

6 (1h 30m 59s):
He saved by the bell right here? I thought this was the end of the

4 (1h 31m 1s):
Fight. No it's not. He gets up. Is that the bro? These let people fucking, they let people just be out cold. Right?

6 (1h 31m 7s):
There's like the famous photo though, right where he is standing over him or is that

4 (1h 31m 10s):
Something else? No, no, that's the Sonny Liston photo. Oh, okay. That's when he knocked Sonny Liston out in Lewiston, Maine. And they said it was a fixed fight and it looks a little suspicious. Ah. Have you ever seen that one? No. Knowing that a lot of people suspect that this is a fake fight and that Liston really wasn't hurt that bad that he took a dive. Watch this. Okay. Because you watch like how he's trying to get up. You're like, as a person who's seen, a lot of people get knocked out. I've seen probably more people get knocked out. Watch it. Here's the right hand. It's a solid right hand. Absolutely legit. No doubt about it. But watch how Liston goes down. So a lot of people said that it was a phantom punch. It's not a phantom punch, it's a absolute watch this over the top. Boom. See the jaw shift? That's a real punch. That's a real knockdown.

4 (1h 31m 51s):
That's not a dive. But what happens is when Liston goes down, so he throws this jab, Ali comes over the top and bang, that's a 100% legit punch. But when Liston goes down, that's when it gets shenanigans. See if they scoot ahead to watch if they is this just, it's just the punch. Okay, just show me the actual knockout I. don dunno. There it is. Is that it? It's you gotta see, you gotta see when he gets up because when he gets up, that's when it looks fake. When he gets up, when he's down. No, this is like a bunch of different fights.

4 (1h 32m 34s):
See if you can find it.

5 (1h 32m 35s):
Did you box or you're always doing?

4 (1h 32m 37s):
I did some kickboxing. Oh, here it is. Here. It's right here. So he not, he hits him, he knocks him down. Now watch, watch he goes down. Now this is where it gets a little shenanigan knee. See I'm watching him roll around. He gets to his knees and he falls back down. It just looks a little like he's not trying to stop himself from going to his back. It looks a little funky. It looks a little funky. So like he gets up and look. He's looking away. He's not even looking at Ali. So they're not deciding yet whether or not the fight is stopped. And now Ali is fucking teeing off on him.

4 (1h 33m 17s):
And then they stopped the fight. It was very shenanigan. Right. You know it looked a little shenanigan.

5 (1h 33m 25s):
He made contact though don don't know.

4 (1h 33m 27s):
But it's also like the humiliation that Liston suffered from the first fight. The first fight was 100% legit. Yeah. The first fight when he fought Sonny Liston. Sonny Liston was this murderous puncher man. He was one of the most murderous punchers ever. He fucked up Floyd Patterson so bad. He was so dangerous. He was so scary. And he was a thug. Like he was a crazy dude. Like during one of the press conferences see, could find this. Ali was talking crazy shit. Liston pulled out a fucking gun. He pulled out a gun and shot through the fucking ceiling.

5 (1h 33m 57s):
Are these people

4 (1h 33m 58s):
Everybody scrambled?

5 (1h 33m 59s):
Are they legit nutty like that? Or is this partly pr for the fight? Like, if I shoot a gun, this will draw eyeballs?

4 (1h 34m 5s):
No, no, no, no, no. That was who Sonny Liston was. And what Muhammad Ali was doing was trying to get into his head

13 (1h 34m 10s):
A bum threw a bullhorn,

4 (1h 34m 12s):
Shoots blanks.

14 (1h 34m 14s):
I'm gonna hurt you. I'm gonna hurt you. You crazy. I'm gonna hurt you. Do you fight me?

4 (1h 34m 21s):
Here it is. The

13 (1h 34m 21s):
Situation finally came to a head when Clay approached Liston at the Desert Inn in Las Vegas, where the champ was shooting craps. And it Liston, Liston was in no mood to be harangued by the mouth from the south.

5 (1h 34m 34s):
Oh, shit.

13 (1h 34m 36s):
Frightening. His young tormentor into a hasty retreat. The gun was filled with blanks.

4 (1h 34m 42s):
Yeah.

5 (1h 34m 44s):
He just put it in his, in his coat pocket to prove it a blank. I'd be terrified, dude,

4 (1h 34m 49s):
By the way, those could still kill you. Yeah. Like people that put blanks up to their head, the force of the gas coming out of the barrel of the gun can kill you. and it has killed people. A guy did it on a set once. He, you know, he was just, geez, fucking around with a blank.

5 (1h 35m 4s):
They, they have so much protocol whenever there's a gun

4 (1h 35m 5s):
In set, bro. That's so scary.

15 (1h 35m 8s):
Move quick.

4 (1h 35m 9s):
Yeah. Look how fast his fucking reflexes were. He dodged a bullet. Yeah. Like legitimately. He's fucking shit. He dodged fast, bro. But he would constantly talk shit at every press conference. It got so bad to the point where when they did his, like the weigh in thing, like after the weigh in, his heart rate was so high, his blood pressure was so high that they had to calm him down or they weren't gonna let him fight. 'cause he'd just like worked himself up into a frenzy to fuck with Liston. He would show up in front of list's house and yell on his front lawn like he climbed into that dude's head.

5 (1h 35m 44s):
Oh, I'm sure. How crazy to be that gifted as a fighter and that gifted as a shit talker as well.

4 (1h 35m 49s):
Unprecedented shit talker. Yeah. No one before him did poetry. No one did rhymes. Like you don't understand. He

5 (1h 35m 56s):
Did his work to get in sense, ed,

4 (1h 35m 58s):
Bro. My parents were hippies and they had to watch when Muhammad Ali was rematching, Leon Spinx. 'cause on television, that's how much of like a cultural icon that guy was. 'cause he stood against the Vietnam War, and that's why he lost three years of his career when he was in his prime in 1967. He's like, I'm not going to Vietnam. He goes, no vie Kong ever did shit to me. Yeah. I'm not doing this. And they took away his ability to box for three years. And you know, my parents were like very anti-war. They, they were like, this is our guy. The whole country was like this. This is a, a person who represented sense.

4 (1h 36m 40s):
He made sense when the world was going crazy and they were talking people into fighting this nonsense war in Vietnam and you could possibly lose your life or lose a leg or lose a friend or lose your father or lose your what. And he was like, fuck that. And he was right.

5 (1h 36m 58s):
Yeah. Was it one of those things that it took years to get clarity on it, like as a collective whole society where at the time he was probably raked over the coals, right?

4 (1h 37m 5s):
A hundred percent. There was a lot of people that didn't look, you, you we'd, we had Associated Wars before Vietnam with these just wars like World War I and World War ii. We thought of those as just wars. Like you're trying to stop evil. There's a guy who's hopped up on meth in Germany and he literally, literally hopped up on meth. That was a simple one. Trying to take over the world. That's a simple one. These are just wars, right. By the way, they're not simple. They're, they're super complicated. And there's a lot of,

5 (1h 37m 32s):
But in terms of cartoony bad guys, yes.

4 (1h 37m 34s):
Bad guy, good guy. We are the good guys. And, and we like to think of ourselves like that. So when we're at war, if we're at war to stop communism in Vietnam, we, at the time, I think collectively, there was a lot of like hardcore fucking blue collar Republican type people that were like, yeah, you gotta do what the fuck you have to do to protect freedom. Right? And you got, but then they didn't know that the whole thing was staged. They didn't know that that Gulf of Tonkin incident was a false flag just to justify us getting into that crazy ass war for who knows what reason. But there's a lot of 'em. Yeah, a lot of reasons. So now people have a different sort of feeling when it comes to war.

5 (1h 38m 13s):
So you think that was the first time at

4 (1h 38m 15s):
This point, I would like to play Fuck a War by the Ghetto Boys, but Spotify will allow this. And do you know that song?

5 (1h 38m 26s):
Maybe if I heard it,

4 (1h 38m 27s):
Bro. Gimme a little bit of this. Willie wrote that in 45 minutes.

5 (1h 38m 30s):
That's crazy. Like, how do you write that

4 (1h 38m 32s):
In 45? It's a great song, man. It's a great song. And it's so, it's right. He's right. Yeah, he's right. And you know,

5 (1h 38m 39s):
It's interesting to see the evolution of rap. You know, like when it started it was, it was like very socially conscious and stuff. I know, they're still, they're still doing that. But in terms of what becomes popular on a like pop scale for rap, do you know Russ at all? It's interesting hearing him talk about it. He's this hip hop artist who's like independent. He was on flagrant talking about rap. And like what happens is a certain type of rap gets popular and then it mo it becomes uncool. Or you move to the next thing. Like being socially conscious is cool and then just fun and wilding out is cool. And then what's the next phase? You know? Yeah. Yeah. So it's not like it doesn't exist. It just becomes smaller piece of the larger genre pie. Mm.

5 (1h 39m 19s):
And now rap is so big, there's sub genres of it. Like rock, you know, there's indie rock, there's, and now there's emo rap, there's, well,

4 (1h 39m 26s):
There always kind of was different genres even back in the day. Like I was always a big Dela Soul fan. Yeah. Same three's the magic number. That's a Jam son. Yeah, that's a jam. And that was very different. Very different kind of hip hop.

5 (1h 39m 39s):
But now it's getting so granular. Like even more so.

4 (1h 39m 43s):
Yeah.

5 (1h 39m 44s):
So that's just kind of interesting. I was like, oh yeah. Did start Associate,

4 (1h 39m 47s):
Remember Third base?

5 (1h 39m 48s):
How did Third base, were they white guys?

4 (1h 39m 49s):
Pop Goes The Weasel. 'cause the Weasel goes pop you. Yeah. They're white guys. You don't remember that?

5 (1h 39m 55s):
Did one of a flat top.

4 (1h 39m 56s):
They had like a disc track against Vanilla Ice.

5 (1h 39m 60s):
I, yeah. I like that battle. That's fun.

4 (1h 40m 1s):
Pop goes the Weasel.

5 (1h 40m 3s):
And Vanilla is the Weasel.

4 (1h 40m 5s):
It's people that go pop people. You know, they were hardcore

5 (1h 40m 9s):
Third base. Yeah. Oh, Giannis was talking about this. I was

4 (1h 40m 11s):
On, what's interest saying is that dude eventually went on to h Host a daytime talk show.

5 (1h 40m 15s):
Which, what was it about?

4 (1h 40m 16s):
Which is like the poppies thing of all time. Like

5 (1h 40m 18s):
A Ricky Lake type thing. Yeah.

4 (1h 40m 19s):
Like one of 'em things.

5 (1h 40m 21s):
Did he have the flat top? He,

4 (1h 40m 22s):
I believe he kept the flat top. Even when you hosted a show. That's

5 (1h 40m 25s):
Impressive though. That's an impressive flat

4 (1h 40m 26s):
Top. It's a serious flat top. I don't even know how you get that going on as a white guy. There must be some products involved.

5 (1h 40m 35s):
Mc

4 (1h 40m 35s):
Search, MC search. They're good though, man. Third base was good. Oh yeah.

5 (1h 40m 39s):
Yeah.

4 (1h 40m 40s):
They had some great jams. And mc Search had a great, great album himself too. It was great. They were good. But for, for whatever reason, the white guy rapper, there's only one. Well, I mean I mean the big one. Eminem. Yeah. Yeah. There's other ones, you know, well, there's other great white rappers, don't get me wrong. But

5 (1h 40m 58s):
He had to be so technically proficient. And it's amazing what he had to do to be able to be accepted. Right? He needed the vouch, he needed to have the skillset that he has. Right. Because before him, I think young people don't realize that's what's kind of cool about the younger generation, like Gen Z and stuff is, yeah, they just like art. They don't care what your vessel is. Right. Like there's a rapper, rich Brian, he's, he's Asian and like he's great at rapping, you know, but he's like an Asian kid. Whereas before you weren't able to receive music from a vessel that looked different than what the norm is.

4 (1h 41m 30s):
Well, and then there was my Man Everlast House of Pain. That was the best of like the white rap bands. Yeah, by far. House of Pain was awesome. Dude. Jump around. Oh,

5 (1h 41m 43s):
Jump around. Yeah. To this day,

4 (1h 41m 45s):
When that song comes out for the UFC, when someone comes out as that song for a walkin song, that is a great fucking walkin song. That's a great, I'm in the gym song Jump. You know, that's a great driving song. That's a let's fucking Go song. That's a let's fucking Go song.

5 (1h 42m 3s):
Oh, come on. Oh, just hearing those. You know what it is Immediately, man. And then

4 (1h 42m 9s):
That's it. That's all we get. Ah. That's all we get. God damnit. YouTube been

5 (1h 42m 12s):
Too much. I know.

4 (1h 42m 13s):
Fuck, this is the beautiful freedom that we have on Spotify. I think we gonna start doing that, Jamie. I'm not gonna

5 (1h 42m 19s):
Compromise just Spotify exclusives.

4 (1h 42m 20s):
Yeah, just have little Clips cut it out for YouTube. People know. Yeah, we'll know. We'll put the full one out on Spotify.

5 (1h 42m 26s):
The Vibe Corner.

4 (1h 42m 27s):
God damnit these rules.

5 (1h 42m 29s):
So what is fucking

4 (1h 42m 30s):
Rules,

5 (1h 42m 31s):
Bro? How is the New Deal different than like what you're able

4 (1h 42m 33s):
No Mos talk. That's the new deal. It's a big part of it.

5 (1h 42m 36s):
That makes sense. That makes sense. Yeah. The algorithm after the election cycle, then Yeah,

4 (1h 42m 40s):
Then I could discuss,

5 (1h 42m 41s):
Go back to it.

4 (1h 42m 41s):
The bombings, right? Yeah. It's just gonna be everywhere now. Well, it's gonna be on Apple, Amazon, and YouTube as well as on Spotify.

5 (1h 42m 52s):
That's pretty great. That's awesome. Yeah, it's cool. So it's kinda like the way it was before the move to Spotify. Like you're getting some pretty much

4 (1h 42m 58s):
The Yeah, pretty much. But my deals with Spotify, right? So Spotify and Art, like it's, instead of, you know, they have a vested interest in being it being successful everywhere. So we're all in it together.

5 (1h 43m 12s):
Oh, is that the thought? Like, okay, we're drawing people in via Apple Podcasts, these different YouTube. Right. and

4 (1h 43m 19s):
It just draws us back down. They'll, they'll make money off of it being on the other shows too. Oh, okay. It's all good. It's good for everybody. Yeah, it's good. And it's wider. Distribution is good. And it's just like, look, people get attached to certain platforms. Some people are super attached to Apple. and I used to be as well. I used to get all my podcasts on Apple. It was, it's super convenient. It uploads automatically. You know, you can set it like that. So you know, when the new episodes are up, it's perfect. Works great. So I get, if they didn't wanna switch over and listen to Spotify, I get I mean. I knew that when we first started doing it, I was like, a lot of people are gonna be like, sorry. Yeah. It's a lot of shit to listen to, which is great. Right. It's a fucking great time.

4 (1h 43m 58s):
If you're interested in listening to stuff. I mean, the amount of audio books available are fucking insane. It's insane. There's, you could never go bored. You'll always get entertained or educated or something. There's so many of them. But the amount of podcasts now are, it's bonkers. There's like 5 billion podcasts.

5 (1h 44m 21s):
Yeah. I remember years ago talking to Ari at the store, this, this is maybe like when podcasting was 2.0 or I'm like, ah, everyone has a podcast. And he's like, everyone has a TV show. They don't stop making TV shows. And that was really eyeopening to me too. Like, just because there's a lot of 'em doesn't mean there's no place for new ones and such's.

4 (1h 44m 40s):
Well, I used to tell so many people to do a podcast that it was a meme, that it was annoying. I was telling everyone to do a podcast and I wasn't right.

5 (1h 44m 48s):
You, you, I wasn't. Correct. Yeah. I wanna apologize to society. I fucked up

4 (1h 44m 53s):
A couple of times, but I, I felt like, and I do feel like, I don't think it's, I don't think it's the easiest road, but I think if you're a person who's interesting to talk to, you could find other people that are also interesting to talk to and sit down and people enjoy it. It's like, you can do it right, but it's gonna take some work. Yeah. So if you dedicate yourself to it and you try to figure out what you're doing wrong, what you're doing right, what makes you annoying? What's, what's more interesting if you do it right, like treat it like you having any other thing, you'll get better at it, but it's not gonna come easy. Yeah. There's too many of 'em out there. but it does. It's free.

5 (1h 45m 28s):
It's free.

4 (1h 45m 29s):
You could just do it. You could just upload it to YouTube. It doesn't cost that much Right. To put

5 (1h 45m 34s):
Together. It's not like you're filming a sitcom and it costs so much a sound stage. The overhead is so low to do a podcast. So it's, it's worth the trial of doing it. And also I think just in the standup space, it's a great two-hander. 'cause you don't always put a special out all the time. And like, being able to check in with your fans week to week.

4 (1h 45m 52s):
Yeah.

5 (1h 45m 52s):
They like that just being a part of your life and stuff. And then they kind of wanna know what your baseline is off stage as well. 'cause then they feel closer to use a performer, you know? Yeah. Like access is the new mystery, I feel like, in entertainment. Mm. Whereas before it was like, oh, Humphrey Bogart or these starlets, you, you only got glimpses of what they were. And, but now that's almost like a kiss of death. You have to be like, Hey guys, here I am. I'm, you know, I'm at Whole Foods. I'm getting like access. They wanna feel like, oh, I know them. You know? That's valuable. Right. Yeah. The only guy who's not, who doesn't have to play that game anymore is like Daniel Day Lewis. He can make shoes. He can make shoes. Like no one's telling Daniel Day Lewis to live Tweet

4 (1h 46m 32s):
Movie. Well, there's certain actors that are on the fringes, right. Not on the fringes. Meaning they're, they're like, everybody knows who they are, but they might not be the first pick for a big project. Right. And the only way they think they can keep their name out there is to do stuff. So they have to get photographed on red carpets. And they have to, sometimes they're like, tell the paparazzi where they're gonna be. Yeah. But they like work thing. They have publicists that set things up so you can casually see them, you know, doing something. You know, like fucking intimate. Like working out on the beach. Yeah. Yeah. You know, some shit like that.

5 (1h 47m 2s):
Thought you guys are here.

4 (1h 47m 3s):
Oh, how crazy. I look great. I'm oiled up.

5 (1h 47m 6s):
What, what are the odds?

4 (1h 47m 8s):
Yeah. There's some silliness to it, but I get it. It's a business. It's a, your, your business is you, and this is a business decision that you're making. I get it. But it's just like, that's a different thing than comics. You know, with, with us the best, like, the best thing that we have going on is like this network of all of us. That's the best thing we have going on. Because now, instead of relying on like Comedy Central to tell you who's good or it's, it's a total meritocracy. And it's almost always entirely based on, are you funny and are you fun? Are you fun to hang around with? Yeah. And if you're funny and fun to hang around with, yay. We're all gonna have fun. Yeah. And that's great for everybody. It's awesome, man. It for people that are listening, it's great for us.

4 (1h 47m 49s):
It's

5 (1h 47m 50s):
Great. I'm so fortunate.

4 (1h 47m 50s):
Keep the art form popping

5 (1h 47m 52s):
That, that it's shifted this way. Yeah. And now this is like a viable release route for me. Like, I have the special coming out. I get to do this. I get to do bad friends. I get to, you don't have

4 (1h 48m 1s):
To be chosen. You

5 (1h 48m 2s):
Don't have to be chosen. And also like, who better than other comedians to know what's what in the field. Right. It we're, we don't have any agenda. We we're in the streets. We see what's going on. Whereas sometimes you get so high up at these corporations, they just, they're like, okay, we need this demo. We need this person, this guy's from this agency. That's a favor. There's all this fuckery.

4 (1h 48m 21s):
A lot of fuckery. There's so much fuckery. They, they should not be in control of this art form. Well, it's not their art form. It's our art form. You're it's the audience's art form.

5 (1h 48m 29s):
You're seeing the cracks now. Yeah. It's crumbling. I mean I have no management now. Like, I like it that way. I just have an agency and I I'm getting approached sometimes, but like, we're at a point in entertainment and culture and stuff where like, what value does like a nineties type manager have anymore? s like the blueprint is different now. Like these Hollywood opportunities don't help me as a standup comedian anymore.

4 (1h 48m 53s):
It depends on what kind of a manager you have. Yeah. So if you have a really good manager, a really good manager is very beneficial. 'cause they can strategize with you about what you do and what the pros and cons of what you do are and what's the best business decision. And how do you feel artistically about your set now? Have we thought about holding off for six months? You have people that are confidant. Yeah.

5 (1h 49m 18s):
There's, there's value in that. Yeah. If you find the right person and they're keyed into what you're doing, but sometimes you go places. You're just part of a roster. Yes. Like they're just,

4 (1h 49m 27s):
There's a problem in the same thing. It's like factory farming. They're factory farming comedy. They, they Yeah. They try to get as many comics as they can. They're collect

5 (1h 49m 33s):
You. They're collecting you and hoping you pop. Exactly. And they, and then they take piece, they just siphon off some 10%.

4 (1h 49m 38s):
Yeah. But when you're a young comic and you're coming up, the idea of being in a management company is a fucking huge deal. Yeah. It's like, and it is an opportunity too. 'cause they can get you some things that you're not gonna get without it. For

5 (1h 49m 49s):
Sure. Also, you

4 (1h 49m 50s):
Have to, you booked at improvs, they'll get you some good gigs. So

5 (1h 49m 53s):
It like also where you are in your career. Like I've, I've, I'm deep. I'm like, I have a lot of connections. Like, you're deep, bro. I'm deep. Dude. I know you. I'm, you know, I'm texting you. You should,

4 (1h 50m 1s):
You should write that. That should be a new special. I'm deep, bro. sca, stop us. Yeah. I'm deep bro. I'm deep, bro.

5 (1h 50m 7s):
That's

4 (1h 50m 7s):
It. We're making this happen.

5 (1h 50m 8s):
I'm deep bro.

4 (1h 50m 9s):
I'm deep, bro.

5 (1h 50m 10s):
The, the bro instantly negates the I'm deep is what I love.

4 (1h 50m 15s):
Deep does it though. I'm deep, bro. I mean Elon Musk can say it.

5 (1h 50m 18s):
Yeah. People believe him though.

4 (1h 50m 20s):
Yeah. But you know what I'm saying. He is like, like he could say I'm deep, bro. I'm

5 (1h 50m 23s):
Deep. I'm deep, bro.

4 (1h 50m 24s):
He can say so, so deep. But some people still mock him. It's hilarious to me. Yeah. They call him the stupidest smart guy alive. I'm like, okay,

5 (1h 50m 30s):
Are you gonna get a neural link? Are you gonna be, are you gonna be like a hype beast? Just no sitting in line waiting

4 (1h 50m 35s):
Equipped. I'll, when I know that it's inevitable, I will give up. Just like all of us will. Just like the people that wouldn't wear shoes forever. And they went, all right. Shoes

5 (1h 50m 42s):
Are, our shoes are pretty good.

4 (1h 50m 43s):
They're way better than no shoes. Yeah. Fucking stepping on rocks and shit. Right.

5 (1h 50m 46s):
Cuts of your feet. I, I think it's just funny. Die from infections. The guy who's waiting it out like, all right, I'll do shoes now. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

4 (1h 50m 52s):
It looks pretty cool. Guys get to a certain point. He's like, yeah, they were right. You could run away from cats.

5 (1h 50m 57s):
Don don't have talk though. don don't have talk though anymore.

4 (1h 51m 0s):
I think at a certain point in time everyone's gonna get something. There's gonna be some benefits to whatever it is. Some interface. Whether you wear it or whether it's a part of your body, there's gonna be benefits that you can't get without it.

5 (1h 51m 13s):
Have, have you done Apple Vision Pro yet?

4 (1h 51m 15s):
I have not. I am scared about that. I'm scared. I am scared of Apple Vision Pro.

5 (1h 51m 19s):
Oh, how so? I don't

4 (1h 51m 21s):
Want explain. I don't be walking around my fucking house things.

5 (1h 51m 23s):
Are you afraid you're gonna like it? Things?

4 (1h 51m 24s):
A hundred percent. I'm afraid I'm gonna be sitting in my office watching movies instead of doing shit that I should be doing.

5 (1h 51m 30s):
They show images of people on a plane with an Apple Vision Pro. I would just be so mortified to have that strapped to my head on a plane. You know

4 (1h 51m 38s):
What I mean? Oh, I would definitely strap it to my head on a plane. Really? Yeah. Man, you're on a fucking plane. Wouldn't you rather watch a Giant 3D movie?

5 (1h 51m 45s):
It's just so, it just looks

4 (1h 51m 46s):
So silly. You can silly, you can watch Avatar in 3D on this fucking plane. Yeah. While you're smelling that guy's next to you farts. Right.

5 (1h 51m 52s):
That's pretty cool.

4 (1h 51m 56s):
You're in the fucking jungle and all of a sudden you're like, Jesus Christ.

5 (1h 51m 59s):
It's just funny. The thick of an Apple Vision Pro. And then going like,

4 (1h 52m 3s):
Oh bro. Smelling people's farts on planes. One of the worst parts about flying.

5 (1h 52m 9s):
Well, you ever get a seat That's right. Next I mean not anymore for you, but like you're next to the laboratory, you're like, oh yeah. Smelling people's poop particles the whole fucking time just

4 (1h 52m 16s):
Breathing in poop, steam.

5 (1h 52m 18s):
Yeah. Sometimes I don't, I don't book a seat. Because it'll be extra if you do it ahead of time and then you just, if you leave it to the machine, sometimes you get fucked.

4 (1h 52m 25s):
Bro. Dropping a log on a public flight is a nightmare.

5 (1h 52m 28s):
Yeah. That's like joker shit.

4 (1h 52m 30s):
It's a nightmare. You get in there and you gotta drop a log. It's

5 (1h 52m 33s):
Kind of,

4 (1h 52m 34s):
There's people waiting to get in.

5 (1h 52m 35s):
It's kind of thrilling if, if you've ever shit on a plane, it's the pinnacle of technology.

4 (1h 52m 40s):
Kind

5 (1h 52m 41s):
Of. You like fuck the wheel. Being able to shit in the sky. Yeah. Sometimes I think about like, like, man, what if the plane was see-through or something?

4 (1h 52m 47s):
You know what's wild is that sometimes when that shit, you know, it basically freezes into like a brick. And sometimes like people have been hit by it.

5 (1h 52m 56s):
They just drop it.

4 (1h 52m 57s):
I don't know how they dispose of it normally, but I know that like people's houses have been hit by shit bricks.

5 (1h 53m 3s):
But they get a nice little payout. Huh.

4 (1h 53m 5s):
I would hope you get a good payoff if frozen shit from 250 passengers falls from the sky and hits your fucking house.

5 (1h 53m 12s):
You just have a neck brace.

4 (1h 53m 14s):
Oh

5 (1h 53m 14s):
My

4 (1h 53m 14s):
Gosh.

5 (1h 53m 15s):
A frozen piece of shit from a Delta flight rocked me. But I got, I got the money I deserve. How

4 (1h 53m 20s):
Do they normally get rid of that stuff, Jamie? I'm looking. They probably,

5 (1h 53m 22s):
I would imagine they pump it when they land

4 (1h 53m 24s):
Or something. I would imagine that's how they do it now. Yeah. But I do know that there's at least one story that I read about a, a house that got hit with a rock of shit

5 (1h 53m 34s):
Like roof. It might have been

4 (1h 53m 36s):
Some irresponsible fucking cargo plane. They

5 (1h 53m 39s):
Like they, Dave Matthews, did you remember that story when they dropped a bunch of shit like from the tour bus and it landed on some people that Dave Matthews tour

6 (1h 53m 47s):
Bus. Really? They got, they got in trouble for that. Yeah.

4 (1h 53m 49s):
They dumped shit from their tour bus.

5 (1h 53m 51s):
I don't think Dave Matthews green lit it, but whoever was riding the, it was over the

6 (1h 53m 54s):
Chicago River I think. Oh. Oh. Like they emptied the builds too. but it just like, I might even gotten people that were in one of those boats that went underneath it. I'll

5 (1h 54m 2s):
Double. What an honor though Dave Matthew's shit drenching you. Like if you're a huge fan,

4 (1h 54m 6s):
Bro. How cool that, I hope that guy got fired. That's the crazy roadie that gets some pills. He's like, I ain't going fucking Chicago. Chicago. I get rid that shit right here in the river, bro.

6 (1h 54m 18s):
There's a plaque there. There you go.

4 (1h 54m 20s):
The pro. So

5 (1h 54m 21s):
That's where it happened. Plaque,

4 (1h 54m 21s):
It, it shows it the afternoon of August 8th, 2004 at this very location, the Dave Matthews Band tour bus emptied the septic tank over the Chicago River. Drenching

6 (1h 54m 32s):
Passengers on a boat,

4 (1h 54m 33s):
Drenching passengers on a boat tour with 800 pounds of human poop. No one died that day, but many wish they had. There you go. Wow.

5 (1h 54m 43s):
That's so much poop.

4 (1h 54m 45s):
The

6 (1h 54m 45s):
Poop falling from the sky thing here is interesting.

4 (1h 54m 47s):
So that, but hold on. But just that one that's real.

5 (1h 54m 50s):
I've been on that boat tour. Could you

4 (1h 54m 51s):
Imagine you just opened the pipe over the water on a bridge.

5 (1h 54m 58s):
Well, just bad timing peoples. What if those people weren't there? Would they have gotten away with it? Did

4 (1h 55m 2s):
He even check?

5 (1h 55m 4s):
That's a good point. How do you not know? How

4 (1h 55m 6s):
Do you not know there's not a boat filled with a tour of people? Because it's an

5 (1h 55m 11s):
Odd, an architectural tour. You're, you're taking in all these wonderful buildings.

4 (1h 55m 14s):
Oh, you get trenched with shit. Yeah. From the sky.

5 (1h 55m 19s):
Do you think you feel better when you find out it's a Dave Matthews though? 'cause you just think it's rando shit. Well

4 (1h 55m 23s):
You think you're getting paid.

5 (1h 55m 25s):
That's a good point.

4 (1h 55m 26s):
How did that go down? There had to be a lawsuit. Right? The,

6 (1h 55m 28s):
I thought I had something. The,

5 (1h 55m 29s):
You go, you can come to a concert. He

6 (1h 55m 31s):
Got 18 months of probation. One 50 hours community service,

4 (1h 55m 34s):
Stephan, $10,000 fine. Which is paid to the Friends of Chicago River's.

5 (1h 55m 40s):
Nothing. That's it. I would do it again for that price. They were

6 (1h 55m 42s):
Not on the ba bus.

4 (1h 55m 43s):
The, the bus, which is reportedly being used by the band violinist. Boy Tinsley was not occupied at the time of the incident. That Dave Matthews band eventually agreed to pay $200,000 to settle a lawsuit filed by State Attorney General Lisa Madigan. W never drove a bus for the band again.

5 (1h 56m 1s):
I almost feel like we're watching a movie. Imagine. Yeah, exactly. And it's the end of the text. It's like, well, never drove a bus again. It's like, stand by me. And then you see the credits after that. Exactly. Someone please do a biopic on this bus driver.

4 (1h 56m 14s):
Bro. Imagine if they didn't fire 'em. Imagine they're like, Hey, people make mistakes. Yeah. You got good pills though. Keep keep driving that bus,

5 (1h 56m 23s):
Bro. I vouch for him. He had one slip up. He,

4 (1h 56m 26s):
It was a

5 (1h 56m 27s):
Mistake. He's great in every other regard.

4 (1h 56m 29s):
He pressed the wrong button.

5 (1h 56m 30s):
Don't judge this poop thing and

4 (1h 56m 31s):
Dump poop. 800 pounds of it. Ooh bro. How about drain that thing before it gets to 800 pounds

5 (1h 56m 37s):
Lot. Yeah. How

4 (1h 56m 37s):
Many people are shitting in there? That's

6 (1h 56m 39s):
800. It's gotta reading. The thing about the planes, I've never even thought of this. And this is disgusting cruise lines.

4 (1h 56m 47s):
Oh God,

5 (1h 56m 48s):
That's so much shit. Stuff in the

6 (1h 56m 49s):
Ocean that there's apparently a law, for example, sewage needs to be treated if it's gonna be flushed within three miles of the coastline.

4 (1h 56m 56s):
Oh my God. When they're out in the middle of nowhere.

5 (1h 56m 58s):
Just, yeah. I've never

6 (1h 56m 59s):
Thought about that. Average cruise ship generates an average of 21,000 gallons of sewage and 170,000 gallons of what they call gray water. Oh my God. Which is water from the drains of sink showers, laundry machines, and has all sorts of stuff. It's

4 (1h 57m 14s):
A mini Fukushima all, all over the ocean.

5 (1h 57m 17s):
They just send in the elderly. Just toxic waste. Japanese people have to fix the septic leak in there.

4 (1h 57m 22s):
That's a mini Fukushima everywhere in the ocean. Oh.

6 (1h 57m 25s):
And on the space station, since urine is 90% water, they kind of reuse some of it. It says,

4 (1h 57m 30s):
Oh good lord.

6 (1h 57m 31s):
They recycle it. They re yeah, they recycle the water since to a processor because

4 (1h 57m 34s):
That's less disgusting. I know

6 (1h 57m 35s):
It is.

4 (1h 57m 36s):
But but the man,

5 (1h 57m 40s):
Have you done cruise ship? Stand up on a cruise ship?

4 (1h 57m 42s):
No. No. Yeah. You wanna hear something crazy, huh? They took cargo boats and for the un climate change standards, they changed the emission standards of these cargo boats. And a very unexpected thing happened. The, the water temperature got warmer. 'cause there's less H haze in the sky. So the haze in the sky was actually cooling things off. So the fucking pollution from these cargo ships, the, the diminishing of the pollution from the cargo ships actually made the water warmer. Huh. They had the total opposite thing that they wanted to happen. Happen.

5 (1h 58m 16s):
And then what do they do? Just like, whoops.

4 (1h 58m 18s):
Whoops, whoops.

5 (1h 58m 21s):
We had a theory from sides,

4 (1h 58m 22s):
Which is whats a lot of this like climate change speculation is all about, whoops. There's a lot of, oh, well we didn't see that coming. Yeah. You know, which scares the fuck out of me, dude, is ice age and ice age scares the fuck out of me. Because that's not a, there's not a goddamn thing you could do about it. I'm not happy if the world gets warmer and we lose, lose California. But, you know, move in. Move in. Fucking, this is the reason why Atlantis is at the bottom of the ocean kids. Okay. Things change. Things change, adjust and move. Okay. I

5 (1h 58m 57s):
Was here when there was that blizzard in Austin. I

4 (1h 59m 0s):
Was out here. Let's not bring in a goddamn ice age. Yeah. When these crazy fuckers are talking about spraying things in the sky to cool the earth down. Like, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Let's talk this through. First the whole fucking planet. Not you. Wacky dudes talking to strange scientists in the middle of the Pentagon. Like, let's all talk this through first

5 (1h 59m 22s):
Before we do anything,

4 (1h 59m 22s):
Let's all talk this through. Before you spray the sky to cool the earth off and bring in hell bring in the white walkers.

5 (1h 59m 29s):
What, what? It's gonna turn into Game of Thrones. The last

4 (1h 59m 32s):
Thing you want is it to get colder. That is the fucking last thing you want. Take it from a guy who's been camping in Montana. Yeah. You do not want to be in the cold. You don't, you don't want it. You don't want fucking mile high caps of ice over most of North America. Like it was 10,000 years ago. Are you stupid

5 (1h 59m 53s):
I know it gets to like 50 in LA and I'm like, this is cold.

4 (1h 59m 56s):
This is not bad. Like what we got going on. If this is like, this is not bad. If it gets a little warmer, it's not as good. But we're gonna be okay. We can sort out warming. Right. And the fucking, the ocean levels is kind of the same. Like what happened to all that Al Gore stuff? Remember from that movie? Yeah. An Inconvenient Truth. Oh yeah. I thought Miami's gonna be underwater by now. That's really low. Right? I thought we

5 (2h 0m 20s):
Were fucked. Everyone watching that dog.

4 (2h 0m 21s):
What were the, what were the predictions? 'cause they were kind of crazy. I forget. And none of 'em came true.

5 (2h 0m 25s):
Like, we'd be swimming in this podcast. We'd be right now, now

4 (2h 0m 27s):
We'd fucked. We'd be done. We'd be done. Yeah. This is too low. We're only at like 1500 feet above sea level. Huh. I could tell you. Oh, I'm not wearing my car. One watch. I have a watch that'll tell you where you're at. Really? Pretty

5 (2h 0m 39s):
Dope. I just do the Apple Watch.

4 (2h 0m 40s):
Pretty dope to know.

5 (2h 0m 41s):
The Apple Watch is kinda like the Prius of watches. Like, people can't tell if you're rich or poor.

4 (2h 0m 45s):
Well, apple Watch is a great watch. And the Ultra is the shit that Apple Watch. Ultra Red Bear has that, that is the shit.

5 (2h 0m 51s):
How is it different than like what I got?

4 (2h 0m 53s):
It's just bigger, more battery, more features. A larger screen. It's a little bit more like I'm a robot.

5 (2h 0m 59s):
Ah, this is so dumb. But like, the biggest feature I use on this watch is like when I'm cooking and I'm like, set timer for two minutes. Like I'm Dick Tracy. Right. I use it for laundry. I just use it as a timer. That's like the big sell to me.

4 (2h 1m 11s):
Well, you know, red band is like a giant tech.

5 (2h 1m 13s):
K he's, I I imagine he's on an Apple vision right now. Yeah.

4 (2h 1m 15s):
Most likely.

5 (2h 1m 16s):
The most earliest adopter. He has an Neuralink right now. I'm sure

4 (2h 1m 19s):
He'll get that for sure. Yeah. He'll, he'll be the first to take

5 (2h 1m 23s):
To try it out. He's like, he's like it. It's got some kinks.

4 (2h 1m 28s):
Yeah. He's bleeding. Probably

5 (2h 1m 29s):
Should have waited. Yeah. Yeah, yeah.

4 (2h 1m 30s):
Probably should have waited till they, they're gonna

5 (2h 1m 32s):
Fix it though. I'm giving some notes to Elon. But, but, but it's good. I'm glad I did it.

4 (2h 1m 35s):
If you do get it, you'll have such an advantage. That's the problem. If it does work, the thing is like, if it works and what are the side effects and how long does it last? And what if it breaks? And what if Russia hacks it?

5 (2h 1m 46s):
Gosh, you're speaking Russian. What

4 (2h 1m 48s):
If they hack it? What if like, the moment it gets to a certain number of people that have it, China flips a switch. I

5 (2h 1m 54s):
Mean just something. Ha being in your brain is such a big sell. Right? That's a hard sell. It's a hard sell.

4 (2h 2m 0s):
That's a fucking hard sell. But then there's toxoplasmosis, which is in there for 40% of us.

5 (2h 2m 5s):
What is Plasmosis? The

4 (2h 2m 6s):
Stuff we talked about earlier. The cat thing. Ah, toxo.

5 (2h 2m 10s):
Fuck. You're just willingly get, willingly get Toxo. Yeah. Maybe the,

4 (2h 2m 13s):
The, the cell phone thing will be like a neurological thinking about it. Electronic toxo.

5 (2h 2m 19s):
What, what is the promise of Neuralink?

4 (2h 2m 21s):
Well, initially the first person that they did it on, which is fairly recently, is a person who's paralyzed. And through Neuralink, he can now move a cursor around and he can do things and, and he's going to be able to like express himself. He, the way Elon said at the speed of a carnival barker. Wow. Yeah. He'll be able to,

5 (2h 2m 42s):
Those guys are fast. They're fast. Very

4 (2h 2m 43s):
Fast. Very fast. So the idea is that he'll be able to communicate, which is for a person who's been paralyzed and can't operate a, a cursor or a computer is huge. Right? So, Hmm. So that's one thing that they eventually think they may be able to use it to let people who have been paralyzed move

5 (2h 3m 3s):
Like a walk again.

4 (2h 3m 5s):
Yeah. What is the work that's been done on that specifically? Jamie, you'll see don don't wanna talk outta school. On which one? The people being able to eventually they hope that it'd be able to restore movement to people with nerve damage. Right

6 (2h 3m 18s):
Now, I think there's still, when I've looked this up online, there's a little bit of a pushback from some people

4 (2h 3m 24s):
Of

5 (2h 3m 24s):
Course.

6 (2h 3m 24s):
'cause the only way that this has been announced that it works is just Elon's tweet. There isn't been any other proof, I guess,

4 (2h 3m 30s):
If you will. I'm all in. If Elon tweeted it, it's gotta be legit. Yeah. He's a wild boy. He's so wild. He just tweets

5 (2h 3m 40s):
Things. Does does he come by the club a lot?

4 (2h 3m 42s):
He's been to the club. Has he

5 (2h 3m 43s):
Been to the club? I imagine he's so busy. Been a lot of the stuff shows. Shows hanging there every day. No, don

4 (2h 3m 47s):
Don't think he has been. He might've came down when Dave was here. Oh. But it's awesome having him around. He's a fascinating dude.

5 (2h 3m 56s):
I mean how exciting for the comics? Like, yo, you

4 (2h 3m 58s):
Volunteer. Well, he came to a bunch of our shows when we did Stubbs.

5 (2h 4m 1s):
Oh, cool. Yeah.

4 (2h 4m 3s):
It's like, that was when there was nothing to do.

5 (2h 4m 6s):
Well, I got to do one of those stubs shows. When was so fun when I had that writing job, it was like Willy Wonka. You're like, Hey, I'm doing a show with me and Chappelle at Stubbs. Do you wanna? And I'm literally like writing a sick, you know, I'm in a writer's room and it's like kind of boring. And to get this awesome like, call, call to the, you know, bullpen. Like, yo, do you wanna come? Like, yeah. Let me ask them real quick. I go and I still have to add. I'm like, Hey guys, I, I might do a show with Joe Rogan and, and Dave Chappelle like, can I leave like 30 minutes early? And they're so cool. They're like, yeah, yeah. Go. It was like a romcom. They're like, oh, what are you doing? Go after her.

16 (2h 4m 40s):
You're romcom.

5 (2h 4m 41s):
You know, because like, this is very cool for, for them. I'm, I'm like very fortunate. They're very supportive and stuff. And standup is kinda like rock star. Yeah. And they were very cool. Like, yeah, please take the go, leave 30 minutes early, do the show. Tell us how it is, you know, so envious. Like, have fun. Right. And then you pick me up in your fucking muscle car. Like it was up getting, getting better and better and better. You know, it gets more absurd. Like

4 (2h 5m 4s):
Joe was gonna pick you up in the coolest car you've ever seen in

5 (2h 5m 6s):
Your life. Yeah. Yeah. You go, you'll hear it coming. And literally you, you show up. I hear it smells like a boat. That

4 (2h 5m 14s):
Thing's America.

5 (2h 5m 14s):
Yeah. And then Chappelle, you showed him the car. I remember after the show. And he is, he's just like floored this. He's like, what? Oh, lemme check take out, let me check this thing out, blah, blah. And he was loving the car. And then we drove to the after party. Yeah. This was just such a surreal night for me because we do the show. It's amazing. It's an alternate universe where comedy is happening and it's not happening in la You know, the show's amazing. It's fun. And then, and then we, I'm just laying in the cut. I don't want to overextend, you know, I'm just so grateful to be doing, to be asked to do the show. And you already drove me. So all the comics and Dave's friends and stuff are, are piled in the car. Dave is in the passenger seat.

5 (2h 5m 54s):
And then you're like, Hey, Faheem, get in. Like, I wasn't even gonna ask. I was gonna Uber, I was just gonna be forgotten, you know? Right. But you're like, Faheem, get in. So Dave Chappelle has to like do the human thing of, of like pushing his seat up. So I'm like, excuse me, Mr. Spill. Can I,

16 (2h 6m 12s):
You know, so I'm having, I'm

5 (2h 6m 14s):
Having to squish Appel to get into the back of this car. And then you just like, you're ripping, you're ripping in this thing. and I just thought like, man, if I died in this car, I would not make the article.

16 (2h 6m 27s):
It would say

5 (2h 6m 28s):
Joe Rogan, Dave Chappelle and like two other guys died. You know what I mean?

4 (2h 6m 33s):
They probably mentioned your name. Dude.

5 (2h 6m 35s):
I. don know. I don't know. But at that moment, at that moment, no. I would be a guy. but it was such a fun experience. Just that was fun. Like what A wild night. Yeah.

4 (2h 6m 43s):
It was very fun. Those shows at STS were like medicine, you know, like, I didn't really realize how much we needed to have a good time and get together.

5 (2h 6m 52s):
Well the crowd crowds too. They were so appreciative. That's one of the things I noticed when I was doing standup out here is the thirst. And like, it was human nature for as much as we needed it, the audience needed it too. Yeah. To have that kind of release. Yeah. And something to go to rather than just being in your house All day. Yeah,

4 (2h 7m 10s):
Yeah, yeah. People felt trapped and they didn't, it didn't make sense when a bunch of them, one of the things we did at the shows of the Vulcan be like, how many guys had covid and like more than half the crowd would raise their hands. You know,

5 (2h 7m 24s):
You go, who wants to get it tonight? You get people on stage. Probably most of the people are open your mouth. Ah. Like you've been baptized. Yeah.

4 (2h 7m 31s):
It was weird. The

5 (2h 7m 32s):
Power of covid compels you.

4 (2h 7m 34s):
People started treating it like a regular cold. You know, they weren't.

5 (2h 7m 38s):
Well that's, I feel like that's what it is now,

4 (2h 7m 39s):
Kind of. Well it definitely is now. Unless you're insane. You're one of those people that talks outside with a fucking mask on. Like, there's still some people that are insane. They're just insane. but it's also a leftist flag. I say it's like the Democrats MAGA hat. Yeah. You wear that mask unless you're an old person and you're really scared and you have a bad immune system. I get

5 (2h 7m 58s):
It. When I see it at the grocery store. It's like, it's like seeing someone in a throwback jersey. You know what I mean? Like, ah, okay. It's like a cool old Mariner's jersey.

4 (2h 8m 6s):
There's a lot of people that still believe in it. They still believe that you could breathe through something and it protects you from a terrible disease. Could you imagine like thinking that the plague is in this neighborhood like, like some fucking 28 days later. Disease is in this neighborhood. You can just put a little paper mask over your face. You're good. Yeah. You feel comfortable. How about what's going in your eyes? Stupid. Because that's one of the major ways that people get infected. It's through eye contact, through hand to eye. Right. Like you, your eyes, like when people sneeze, you get it in your eyes. You

5 (2h 8m 36s):
Ever see you

4 (2h 8m 37s):
Fucking, you tell me you're breathing air. Yeah. How's it getting into your face?

5 (2h 8m 41s):
You'll see like rapid covid testing places on corners and I. Almost look at those as like a psychic spot. You know what I mean? It kinda has the same feel. Like who, who's going into these super? Oh yeah. Super

4 (2h 8m 53s):
Inaccurate I know a bunch of people who tested negative turned out to be positive. It's, it's tricky man. That fucking disease keeps mutating. It's a bunch of d hundred different fucking strains now. Who knows how many, how many different variants are there now? Yeah. How many? It's like low key. Five, six. How many variants are there? Seven. How many, how many covid variants have been identified? Let's find that out. Let's say a guess.

5 (2h 9m 14s):
This is the Covid five.

4 (2h 9m 15s):
How many? I say there's 14. I say

5 (2h 9m 18s):
14. I'll say 15. I'm gonna price this right. You.

4 (2h 9m 20s):
Let's go

5 (2h 9m 21s):
15. I hope

4 (2h 9m 23s):
It's 14.

5 (2h 9m 27s):
Come on.

4 (2h 9m 28s):
What's the low number you think it is?

5 (2h 9m 31s):
Eight.

4 (2h 9m 32s):
I think seven. I'm going prices. Right? You bitch.

5 (2h 9m 35s):
Fuck. I got to walk behind the set of prices. Right. While it was taping. Really? It was kind of ni. Yeah. 'cause like my girlfriend at the time was Drew Carey doing it. Yeah.

4 (2h 9m 45s):
Oh, that Drew

5 (2h 9m 46s):
Carey's awesome. Well he's a great dude. He's great. During the strike he was paying everyone, like there's that diner swingers. He was paying everybody's bill. So if you could get a free meal Oh wow. As a nice guy. Just as part of the writer's strike. Like if you were in the WGA or whatever, all your meals were covered.

4 (2h 10m 4s):
That's amazing. Yeah. Good for him. That's beautiful. He's, everybody says

5 (2h 10m 8s):
He's a great guy. Such a standup guy. He came by the Hollywood improv one time. That was kind of cool. 'cause he's not a guy who like pops in a ton. Yeah.

4 (2h 10m 14s):
I met him at the improv one night and he was given really good advice of some young comic. What

5 (2h 10m 19s):
Was the advice?

4 (2h 10m 20s):
Who's saying Just if you could write one minute joke every day, just write one joke every day over time. Yeah. Like, you'd be surprised at how much material you can write.

5 (2h 10m 30s):
That's how I feel about writing. Totally. You just kind of build it in pieces and then if you are regimented, regimented about it, when you look back at your notes, it's, it's, you've done all the work.

4 (2h 10m 41s):
I always feel like it's like mining. Mm. You know that like sometimes I fuck just hit rocks. I'm just hitting rocks. But every now and then if I keep mining, I find something cool. Variants of concern. Hmm. So

6 (2h 10m 53s):
That's, there's classifications, right? I guess we could play this game. How many variants of concern currently?

5 (2h 10m 58s):
Yeah. Let's be concerned. Come on.

4 (2h 10m 60s):
Okay, let's, okay, let's, let's start with that. How many variants of concern are there?

6 (2h 11m 3s):
There's three.

4 (2h 11m 5s):
Three variants of concern.

5 (2h 11m 6s):
Man, you're way off. If there are

6 (2h 11m 7s):
Omicron variants.

4 (2h 11m 9s):
Okay. There's a

6 (2h 11m 10s):
Under monitoring, which has got two. So we're at five.

4 (2h 11m 14s):
So it's five under and now deescalated

6 (2h 11m 16s):
Andd. There's over 50 of that. Whoa. List

5 (2h 11m 19s):
Deescalated over

4 (2h 11m 21s):
50. Holy shit dude.

6 (2h 11m 23s):
I don't know how they classify them, bro. That's

4 (2h 11m 25s):
Crazy. There's 50 variants

6 (2h 11m 29s):
No longer circulating.

5 (2h 11m 30s):
Like just not hip anymore.

6 (2h 11m 33s):
Yeah. It's just, there's different

4 (2h 11m 35s):
Spike mutations of interest. Oh

6 (2h 11m 37s):
God. Yeah. I don't know what all,

4 (2h 11m 38s):
How scary is all that stuff? How scary is it? They, they keep doing this gain of function research. They're like, let's just keep,

5 (2h 11m 44s):
Oh, is that, is that how Covid started? The gain of function? That's

4 (2h 11m 46s):
The primary theory.

5 (2h 11m 48s):
What is gain of function?

4 (2h 11m 49s):
Gain of function is when you take a a virus and you engineer it to make it so that it works on humans. So they'll take a virus that works on bats and they'll engineer it so that human beings can catch it.

5 (2h 12m 1s):
Like, let us get What a great idea. Yeah.

4 (2h 12m 3s):
And they make it look super contagious. Also a great idea For those familiar unfamiliar with gain of function. Research essentially means juicing up, naturally occurring animal viruses in a lab that make them more infectious amongst humans. This practice is nothing new scientists in the United States have long known how to mutate animal viruses to infect humans. Sure. Yeah. The practice is nothing new. It doesn't mean it's not a fucking terrible idea. Like what good has come out of it. That's my question. It, do you guys know how to stop these things from happening? 'cause it seems like you didn't stop that last one. So what benefit are we getting from the potential of you unleashing deadly super viruses to the world?

4 (2h 12m 46s):
And is this a thing where, because you can do it, you do it because you can get funding because that's who you studied in school. They

5 (2h 12m 53s):
Just got bored and they go, oh, well

4 (2h 12m 54s):
I think

5 (2h 12m 54s):
It's like, let's try this bad thing.

4 (2h 12m 55s):
Well, it's with their businesses, right? What's your business? My business is studying viruses. Can I get research to study vi? Can I get funds? Well, if you agree with what we say and publicly, we'll give you funds and you can do research and Oh, it's not legal for us to fund that research. Why don't we fund this company? And that company doesn't fund the research. And we could say, I don know what you're talking about. And then, you know, you could change what you describe as gain of function. And you could say, I am the expert. I am science. And that's what we went through. We went through that for three fucking years.

5 (2h 13m 27s):
It's all about funding, man.

4 (2h 13m 28s):
And at the end of the day, it's pretty clear that shit came from a lab. It's pretty clear to all the people that are making any fucking sense that aren't gaslighting the fuck outta you.

5 (2h 13m 40s):
Yeah. I always thought about like, what if you're the guy who loved bat winging soup and, and it was getting a bad rap unnecessarily. Right? Like, guys, it's not the bat wing soup. And now he's vindicated like, yes, I told you it's the lab suck. It's the I can continue eating the soup. I

4 (2h 13m 52s):
Can keep eating Pangolin stew.

5 (2h 13m 56s):
Yeah. You gave my stew a bad name.

4 (2h 13m 58s):
Yeah. Remember they were trying to pin it on the Pangolin. That

5 (2h 14m 1s):
Was hilarious. Oh, that South Park episode is amazing. Weird animal.

4 (2h 14m 4s):
Oh, freakiest. The freakiest little animal. Like a little dinosaur man. Kind

5 (2h 14m 8s):
Of a cute guy though.

4 (2h 14m 9s):
Again, just like that fucking turtle. If that thing was gigantic storming through a village, imagine I mean, imagine a monster. Like it's eating ants here. But imagine just eating humans. Imagine just plowing through some fucking thatch huts.

5 (2h 14m 24s):
That tongue is slicing you in half. Just

4 (2h 14m 26s):
Ripping people's legs apart in front of their families. Just chewing them, choking 'em down. You have

5 (2h 14m 31s):
You eaten bugs?

4 (2h 14m 32s):
Giant Pangolin? Yeah. I've eaten a bunch of bugs. I hosted Fear Factor son.

5 (2h 14m 35s):
Oh. So is that part of it? You had to eat it as being

4 (2h 14m 37s):
Host? No, I, I did it because like I did it to get people to do it. Like, if they were like, I can't do it, I'd be like, you can look. I'll do it. I'll do it easy. I just

5 (2h 14m 44s):
Grabbed with toddlers. I

4 (2h 14m 45s):
Grabbed Roach and I just chucked my

5 (2h 14m 47s):
Yummy.

4 (2h 14m 47s):
I did it to a couple different things. I ate a few different things.

5 (2h 14m 50s):
Any, what's your take on the bugs? Were some of them pretty good or are they all gross?

4 (2h 14m 53s):
Roaches are surprisingly tasteless.

5 (2h 14m 55s):
It's so gross. Ew.

4 (2h 14m 56s):
Yeah. and it was a big one. A Madagascar hissing cockroach

5 (2h 14m 59s):
Alive or dead

4 (2h 15m 0s):
Alive. I just grabbed em and ate em. They're surprisingly tasteless. You get over the fact that you're eating a bug and the squish in your mouth, but it doesn't taste like much. And the thing about bugs is people have been eating bugs forever. Animals have been eating bugs forever. I mean bugs. This is me. Look at, ugh. So cutie back then. Just watch. I'm gonna choke this thing down. Ah,

5 (2h 15m 22s):
Bro. Oh, the crunching.

4 (2h 15m 25s):
Yeah. It was very crunchy.

5 (2h 15m 30s):
Jesus.

4 (2h 15m 31s):
I was laughing at the same time too. Were

5 (2h 15m 33s):
The crew people like, you don't have to do

4 (2h 15m 35s):
This. No, I, I was doing try to get this girl to do it.

5 (2h 15m 38s):
Did she do it? Did she wound

4 (2h 15m 39s):
Up be eating worms instead? Which I thought was worse. We made a deal with her. Two worms. Two worms are a roach.

5 (2h 15m 45s):
What was the thought when you did Fear Factor? I heard it was you, you like, you didn't love acting as much. Is that what it was?

4 (2h 15m 51s):
Well, the process of sitcoms is great when it's up and running, but it's brutal to begin. Like the, the, the early days of news radio were like,

5 (2h 16m 1s):
I love that show by the way. Like, thank you. It was great shows. I loved watching it.

4 (2h 16m 4s):
That was like 16 hour days. Like you work crazy long days and the writers are busting their ass and the actors are, everyone's tired. The crew's tired. It's hard to put together those fucking shows. I

5 (2h 16m 14s):
Thought sitcom was a better schedule. Like I heard these 16 hour days are with single cams and stuff.

4 (2h 16m 20s):
Once they get going, the thing is you have to figure out a way to make it a well-oiled machine. And that takes a long time. It take, the actors have to be in line. They have to figure out who, whose strengths are. The writers have to be in line. The, they have to get support from the network. It's a grind man.

5 (2h 16m 36s):
Did you guys eventually get to a streamline?

4 (2h 16m 38s):
We eventually got to the point where we didn't even have to work five days a week. We only worked four days a week. And one of the days was just a table read. So we'd come in, there would be a table read, then there'd be some revisions. The writers would get together and they'd come up with new scripts and the the writers were crazy. They would, they would write like really late at night. Like that was their thing. To get silly to like be exhausted.

5 (2h 16m 56s):
Yeah. Yeah. Just delirious.

4 (2h 16m 58s):
Yeah. They'd just get completely delirious and write the most ridiculous shit. It was really fun because they would come stumbling in like barely awake at like nine in the morning when we're all there. They had just finished, you know. And some of 'em, sometimes they didn't finish. Sometimes they had like one half of the script and they were still tightening up the second half. So they'd give you the first half of the script. You'd work on it until lunch. Everybody eat lunch. And then they would come back with the second half of the script and you'd work the rest of it out. And in the beginning it was, it was exciting and it was fun and everything, but I was like, I, this is not my jam. You know, this is really fun to do. You're

5 (2h 17m 30s):
Great in it to do thanks.

4 (2h 17m 31s):
Yeah. It's fun. Acting's fun with fun people. But eventually I was like, I just like doing standup and I like doing other things. And then this show Fear Factor I was like, I was like, this is gonna get canceled immediately. Like you're sick. And dogs on people on television and making 'em eat animal dicks. Like, I'm in, let's go. You gonna make a ride? Bulls Okay. I'm like, okay.

5 (2h 17m 53s):
So they came to you first. You were first option. They go, do you wanna host this show?

4 (2h 17m 57s):
Well, they didn't know who was gonna host it. They, they met with a bunch of people and

5 (2h 18m 0s):
It was NBC right? It was NBC.

4 (2h 18m 2s):
Okay. So I had just been on NBC for news radio. And so I had a relationship with them. And so then when this came up, it was just like they, they said, you know, there was two thoughts. One, have someone host it that was like a, like a sports guy. You know, like fear is not a factor for them. Yeah. Like down the middle or someone who's like laughing while this crazy shit was going on. So they chose me.

5 (2h 18m 25s):
So that's, I think it worked better.

4 (2h 18m 27s):
It worked out. Yeah. Well you had to make fun of some of it. 'cause it was so crazy that you were doing this. And some of the things I was like, don't do it. I would tell people don't do it. Like the bull riding. I'm like, don't do it.

5 (2h 18m 36s):
They're not paying you enough for this.

4 (2h 18m 37s):
No one's paying you enough to ride a fucking bull. You get kicked in the head by a bull. Yeah. Your life has changed forever. I'm like, I'm not gonna do whatever you, you want to do, dude.

5 (2h 18m 44s):
You want, but You don't have health insurance. Wouldn't

4 (2h 18m 45s):
Smart. I wouldn't do it. I, I told them all, I'm like, I wouldn't do it. They were trying to tell me that it was stunt bulls. I go, that bull does not know it's a stunt bull. That bull thinks it's a fucking bull. It doesn't even know what a stunt bull is. That's a giant fucking angry animal that doesn't want you on its back. And you're getting like untrained people and you're putting a helmet on 'em. Yeah. And a chest plate and

5 (2h 19m 3s):
Hopping some data entry guy hopping on a bull

4 (2h 19m 4s):
Hoping their arm doesn't get shattered into a fucking million pieces if they're lucky.

5 (2h 19m 8s):
That's a good TV, Joe.

4 (2h 19m 9s):
They don't kicked in the face. Yeah. Terrifying.

5 (2h 19m 12s):
Sometimes I see shows like Wipe Out even I'm like, I, why would I risk this? Yeah. They get to get hit with a giant producers. Really? Yeah. They just love people getting fucked up. Yeah.

4 (2h 19m 23s):
Well it's like, hey, this is the game we play,

5 (2h 19m 26s):
I guess. And then also you,

4 (2h 19m 27s):
We saw that guy jumping over the bulls. That's true. That guy's outta fucking

5 (2h 19m 30s):
Mind too. That's true. But he's, he's willingly doing that. And he's in, he's in control. He's not being thrust into it, you know? Right. This is his life.

4 (2h 19m 37s):
But in their defense, there are people that go on Fear Factor or that went on fear factor that were like serious fucking athletes and, and they excelled at a lot of these things. And you like, oh, well if you're like a real athlete, you could do some of this shit and you could do it better than everybody else. Just like you could play football better than everybody else or wrestle better than everybody else.

5 (2h 19m 56s):
So it wasn't all eating shit? No.

4 (2h 19m 58s):
Was physical stuff. A lot of physical stunts. Like we had a celebrity one won and the Miz, wwe, the Miz, he was on it and he won. Oh, that fucking dude's An athlete, like a real athlete. Like he held his breath underwater while he was swimming for like two fucking minutes or three minutes. It was something crazy. He was doing some stunt. They had to dive into water and do a bunch of shit and come out. I forget what it was, but I was like, that guy's a stud. 'cause like that is hard. Like me as a person who's like, I've, I've tried to hold my breath for long periods of time underwater. I've swam. Yeah, I've, I'm like, that's fucking hard to do. That water's cold as shit. Which really freaks you out when you get in there. Everything like tightens up. If you're not accustomed to jumping into cold water, it's very difficult to stay relaxed.

4 (2h 20m 39s):
And this dude's swimming around in there for like three minutes. I'm like, that's an animal. Yeah. So there's like, yeah, you shouldn't ride a bull. But some of those fucking things that people do, it's like if you're a real athlete, you can excel at a lot of these things. What

5 (2h 20m 54s):
Was the grand prize for? These things

4 (2h 20m 55s):
Depend on the show. I mean. Some shows we gave away a million dollars, but that was only a couple of 'em. Most of the time they got like, I think it was 50 grand, but then after taxes, it's only like 34. The government's like, I ate those dicks. We ate those dicks. Yeah. The government's like, where's my money? Where's,

5 (2h 21m 11s):
Where's my cut?

4 (2h 21m 12s):
The government didn't eat any dicks and they get 16 grand.

5 (2h 21m 15s):
Yeah. Uncle Sam didn't eat dicks.

4 (2h 21m 16s):
Yeah, they ate zero dick and they get

5 (2h 21m 18s):
16. Yeah. and I gotta give my dick money to this guy. You

4 (2h 21m 20s):
Get all the dick, you get 34. Yeah. Fortunately, you know, praise the baby. Jesus. Nobody got hurt.

5 (2h 21m 26s):
Oh, that's good.

4 (2h 21m 27s):
Nobody got really hurt. Sure. I mean people get like sprained ankles

5 (2h 21m 30s):
And, well, I'm sure it was an ironclad contract that these people signed. I'm

4 (2h 21m 33s):
Sure it was nuts. I'm sure it was nuts. But I legitimately thought it was gonna be canceled immediately.

5 (2h 21m 39s):
And it lasted how long?

4 (2h 21m 40s):
Six fucking years. 148 episodes. And then we came back and did it six more and then it got canceled the second time. 'cause people had to drink jizz because it got, it got released. It got released on TMZ. They, they got a hold of the, the video and the photo. Somebody leaked it.

5 (2h 21m 56s):
What kind of jizz?

4 (2h 21m 57s):
Donkey Jizz. Mm. Which is just useless jizz.

5 (2h 22m 1s):
How so?

4 (2h 22m 2s):
Was it Mule J or Donkey Jizz?

5 (2h 22m 4s):
I think it was. They had

4 (2h 22m 5s):
Choice. I think we called it Donkey giz. I think it's

5 (2h 22m 6s):
Mule. You like the Mule Jizz?

4 (2h 22m 7s):
It's sterile Jizz. It's the, you can't like mules. You can't, they can't impregnate anyone. Yeah. don don't think they called it donkey jizz though. I think. Well that's what it's, I think it might've been actually Mule Jizz, because that was the cheapest stuff. That's the budget. You know there's a budget when you're working on a show. Yeah.

5 (2h 22m 23s):
Yeah. We can't get the Thoroughbred Jizz. Yeah,

4 (2h 22m 25s):
Thoroughbred Jizz is super expensive.

5 (2h 22m 26s):
It is. It's a gold. What is that? Millions of dollars.

4 (2h 22m 29s):
It's, yeah, right under that guy, that yoga guy. Like who's,

5 (2h 22m 33s):
Who's Bikram? Oh, Bikram Yoga. You

4 (2h 22m 35s):
Ever see that

5 (2h 22m 36s):
Documentary

4 (2h 22m 37s):
When he is like, people will pay $1 million for one drop of my sperm. That's what he said.

5 (2h 22m 42s):
It sounds like a lance bit.

4 (2h 22m 44s):
It does. It does. So this is it called Donkey Juice.

5 (2h 22m 47s):
So

4 (2h 22m 48s):
They called it Donkey Juice, but I think that's just 'cause Donkey's a funnier name than Mule Juice.

5 (2h 22m 52s):
That's a good point.

4 (2h 22m 54s):
And so, yeah, so they had to do it and there was twins. So one had to drink urine and one had to drink jizz. And depending upon your score, depending upon how many ounces you had to drink, rough stuff. Ladies and Gentlemen and I. That's another show where I said, don't do it. And they're like, NBC signed off on it. Like, don, don't give a fuck. I'm like, this is First of all, this is

5 (2h 23m 15s):
Outrageous. And I've seen a lot of stuff

4 (2h 23m 16s):
High as a kite. Okay. I'd never do that show sober from episode like four on. I would take pot edibles before every show. I was like, let's go. It made it fun.

5 (2h 23m 25s):
I'm sure it enhanced the viewing

4 (2h 23m 27s):
Experience. Oh my God. It made it so much more fun. But that was one day where I was like, you guys are freaking me out. Like, don't do this. This is a terrible idea.

5 (2h 23m 35s):
Did you know that this could be the end? Like doing this stunt?

4 (2h 23m 39s):
100%. You're making people drink jizz. Yeah. I, I couldn't believe that I was the one,

5 (2h 23m 45s):
The voice of reason. Yeah.

4 (2h 23m 46s):
I was the one who was stepping in and going, Hey guys, the

5 (2h 23m 48s):
Guy on the Edible. You

4 (2h 23m 49s):
Can't make people drink jizz on television while people are eating dinner.

5 (2h 23m 53s):
And, and the writers are like, we think it's good. We workshop it.

4 (2h 23m 56s):
You imagine trying to explain that to little kids all over the world.

5 (2h 23m 60s):
What jizz?

4 (2h 24m 1s):
I think in other countries they did play it. That's why it's still available on YouTube. Where I could still find that, that band episode, I think in some countries, I think they played it in Holland. They played it in some European

5 (2h 24m 11s):
Countries. Well, they're way more chill with Mule Jizz out there. They're

4 (2h 24m 14s):
Like, Hey, you know,

5 (2h 24m 15s):
It's, yeah, it's like nudity in France. That's the game. Like they're very cool with Mule Jizz.

4 (2h 24m 18s):
Well, fear Factor actually started out in Holland,

5 (2h 24m 21s):
What was

4 (2h 24m 21s):
It called? I think it was called Now or Neverland. Pretty sure it was Holland. And then they bought it and then changed it to Fear Factor and brought it to America.

5 (2h 24m 32s):
I guess every, every game show is just a remix of something overseas. You know, we do that a lot.

4 (2h 24m 37s):
But what it was for me, dude, it was like my escape package.

5 (2h 24m 42s):
Your parachute.

4 (2h 24m 43s):
Yeah. Like the My fuck you package did. You know, because then I could just do whatever I wanted. And that's when the podcast came after I was done with that.

5 (2h 24m 52s):
Yeah. You have a great sixth sense for just like, not even stumbling, but just like knowing what the next thing is. You know, like Fear Factor gave you a nice parachute away from sitcom and all that stuff you didn't like. And then podcasting was a nice runway to get into that. Yeah. And then you were so early to UFC too, you know? Yeah.

4 (2h 25m 8s):
But the UFC thing was, that was the craziest 'cause I was into the UFC when it was in 1997.

5 (2h 25m 15s):
I remember when you had to go through a beaded curtain to watch UFC.

4 (2h 25m 18s):
Yeah. You have to go.

5 (2h 25m 19s):
I had in Hollywood video, I had to go through a beaded curtain.

4 (2h 25m 21s):
Yeah, you have to go to the dirty

5 (2h 25m 22s):
Section. Yeah, yeah. I remember it was, it was, yeah. You had to like walk by porno and shit to get to UFC tapes. I was at my, my friend Leo Mariama, I believe is his last name, this Japanese kid. He had a UFC tape for his birthday party and he popped that in and this was like wild face of death. Yeah. Yeah.

4 (2h 25m 41s):
You couldn't believe it was real. Yeah. These guys are beating the shit out of each other. This is crazy.

5 (2h 25m 45s):
So you couldn't just get it. It was hard to get. Yeah,

4 (2h 25m 48s):
I

5 (2h 25m 48s):
Started,

4 (2h 25m 49s):
See what? I started working with them in 97 UFC 12 in Dothan, Alabama. and it was just crazy. It was like a half filled like high school auditorium looking place.

5 (2h 25m 58s):
What do you think the biggest jump was? In terms tv?

4 (2h 26m 1s):
Yeah. Getting on Spike tv. It's one of those things where people just needed to see it. They needed to see it to know how exciting it's, you know, there's certain things that people just don't know yet. And then they got it on Spike tv. It was all Dana White and the Fertita brothers, if they didn't, they, they were like $40 million in debt before it. It really hit

5 (2h 26m 20s):
What was their venture kept losing money. Did they have a venture before UFC? Like what were doing? Or? They owned casinos

4 (2h 26m 25s):
So they, they were wealthy, but they were fucking hemorrhaging money. I mean hemorrhaging money doing that, that program and I. But I, you know, I was like, god damn, just the world. The world needs to see if the world could see it's so entertaining. It, it transcends all cultural boundaries. What fighting is is something that's in human beings, DNA. And when you see a really great fight between two highly skilled at the peak of condition, just warriors, the best in the world. And we see them go to war inside of a cage with these little gloves on and shorts, no shoes on, just fucking teeing off on each other.

4 (2h 27m 8s):
It is wild to see. There's nothing like it in all of sports. Nothing like it, man. A real high level championship fight. There's nothing like it, man. and I knew people just had to see it. And if they could see it, they could see what I see. 'cause this is universal. It's not like a game like cricket. You could be awesome at cricket. don don't know what the fuck's going on. I know you're trying to hit that thing with the paddle. It doesn't make any sense to me. don don't know the rules. I'm not interested,

5 (2h 27m 34s):
You know, but fighting, anyone

4 (2h 27m 35s):
Fighting can wrap their head around. Anyone knows what's going on. You know, everyone knows what's going on. You wheel kick somebody in the head. Everybody saw that. That's crazy. What the fuck just happened? You get that guy in an arm bar and break his arm. Like what? He just broke his arm. This is crazy. This is nuts. What is this? It's just universal. I knew it'd be universal.

5 (2h 27m 54s):
Yeah. Fighting is pretty universal. Like I'll watch these wrestling documentaries. They're so good. Like every wrestling documentary is amazing. and I think that's part of the appeal of wrestling. They talk about because it's such a, it's a play. It's so simple fighting, you know? Yeah. Everyone knows this. Yeah. And there's so many elements you can have on top of like going heel and it's, it's dramatic. It's inherently dramatic. Yeah. It's almost the simplest form of entertainment fighting, right?

4 (2h 28m 19s):
Well, in a lot of ways. Yeah. It's also, it's such a dangerous game man. Such a dangerous game, you know? And it's hard for guys to know when to stop playing it. You know, it's hard for guys to know when to get out. And you see all the great ones, man, all the great ones fall and it's just part of the game.

5 (2h 28m 38s):
Has anyone got out at the right time or George

4 (2h 28m 40s):
St. Pierre? Yeah. He did it the most intelligently, better than anybody. He went out as a champion. He retired after defending his belt. And then he came back and he fought Michael Bisping for the middleweight title and beat him. And then retired again. Said that's it. And he's got all of his faculties. He talked to him. He's great. He's super happy. Still very healthy and fit. Still constantly trains martial arts. Comes to Austin all the time to train with Gordon Ryan and John Donaher. So he's here all the time. And he's just a martial artist. I mean, and a great spokesperson. He had a great example of what is possible like that. You can be one of the greatest of all time.

4 (2h 29m 21s):
Without a doubt. George St. Pierre will go down in history as one of the greatest mixed martial artists of all time. For sure. He's definitely in the conversation of the goat. You know, there's a few people that are in that conversation, but he's definitely in there. But that guy's totally fine today. He figured it out. Yeah, he's very smart.

5 (2h 29m 38s):
One of the rare people who

4 (2h 29m 38s):
Just one of the rarest of rare checked out. Yeah, he's, he's smart. He got out at the right time and he's got all his faculties and he's doing great. And that's a beautiful example. But for every one of George St. Pierre, there's guys that leave and you can tell they're slow. You can tell they're compromised. You can tell they've been, they've been in some wars. And that sucks too. It sucks to see. Yeah, it sucks. It sucks to see old guys that are just like, just broken down man. And a lot of 'em physically broken down, like they can't move well anymore.

5 (2h 30m 7s):
I can imagine. Jesus,

4 (2h 30m 7s):
Their backs are all fucked up. Bunch of back surgeries, knee surgeries, you know, it's just such a brutal, brutal way to make a living. But yeah, when I started getting into that, man, it was like doing porn. Like, people were like, what are you doing? What the fuck are you doing? Why are you getting involved in this? You have a sitcom career. Yeah, I was on news radio. You're

5 (2h 30m 27s):
Like, you'll see in a few years, you'll see.

4 (2h 30m 30s):
I don't think anybody believed it. Nobody believed it. But I was like, look, I can't help you. Well, it's a great lesson, but I just can only like what I like.

5 (2h 30m 38s):
It's a great lesson of just following what your passion is and then the rest kinda like falls into place.

4 (2h 30m 42s):
If you're lucky. If you're lucky, you just wind up a car thief. You know? Like they can go back. But

5 (2h 30m 48s):
You really love it. You really love stealing cars though.

4 (2h 30m 50s):
Yeah, some people do. Remember that movie with Charlie Sheen and some other dude, I forget the other dude. He, they would just steal Porsches. What was that one? That dude DB Sweeney. Is that who it is? Who's the other dude who was in it? The fun

5 (2h 31m 2s):
Movie? Was it around the era of Gone In 60 Seconds or Oh, earlier

4 (2h 31m 5s):
Before that. Man, it's a old ass movie. It was this dude with just steal Porsches. It was like 1980s Porsches, which were really cool little cars, man. It's such a different thing than a Porsche of today. Those little like minimized little sporty cars and he would steal these sporty cars and the whole movie's just like a, A love affair.

5 (2h 31m 25s):
Yeah. I love this poster. Yeah,

4 (2h 31m 27s):
It's great. Who is the other dude?

5 (2h 31m 28s):
Is that Iceman or is it DB

4 (2h 31m 30s):
Sweeney? Yeah. Yeah, it is D No Man's Land. It's just a, it's just a Porsche infomercial. The whole movie's about you. You, if you get this movie and watch it, you don't wanna buy an old Porsche. There's something wrong. Something wrong with you. Go to a doctor.

5 (2h 31m 46s):
Remember Italian something wrong? Remember Italian job where it was just like a mini commercial?

4 (2h 31m 49s):
See, look at this. Got what? What year is that?

5 (2h 31m 52s):
Oh, what ca cassette is that? That crank it.

4 (2h 31m 55s):
They got the,

5 (2h 31m 56s):
The toothpick. Come on

4 (2h 32m 1s):
Bro. Those cars are the shit.

5 (2h 32m 2s):
I want a portion of toothpick right

4 (2h 32m 4s):
Now. Those cars are very difficult to handle though. See they saw a car like, let's get it and they hop out and Charlie Sheen was a cop. He was undercover. Right? Isn't that the plot? Pretty sure

5 (2h 32m 16s):
Before.

4 (2h 32m 17s):
And Charlie's gonna, this guy's got a Cabrio leg.

5 (2h 32m 21s):
Car,

4 (2h 32m 21s):
Phone, car, phone. Oh, I think that's an alarm. Oh, I think it's one of them alarm jobs. Yeah. See, 'cause it's flashing. He's like, oh, there's an alarm on this car, this

5 (2h 32m 30s):
One's gonna be harder.

4 (2h 32m 32s):
Yeah. So he had to look around. Do you know what you're doing man? Yeah bro. I'm gonna steal his Porsche.

5 (2h 32m 39s):
Oh shit. Is he gonna use, okay,

4 (2h 32m 41s):
By the way, if you have a, a convertible, can you just cut the top? Oh, here comes the knife. So

5 (2h 32m 46s):
This is how you do it.

4 (2h 32m 48s):
Is he gonna cut the top? He is gonna cut the top. This sly bastard. Look how slick he is.

5 (2h 32m 54s):
Ooh, nice watch.

4 (2h 32m 54s):
He's looking for the spot.

5 (2h 32m 56s):
This is very sensual.

4 (2h 32m 57s):
Yes, very. This is why he shouldn't have a convertible. Yeah. This is

5 (2h 33m 2s):
Ridiculous. Charlie. Charlie Sheen will steal it.

4 (2h 33m 4s):
Get a cloth house. So Charlie Sheen's gonna cut that, right? What's he gonna do? Pop it.

5 (2h 33m 11s):
Okay. That simple,

4 (2h 33m 12s):
Huh? Yeah, he's gonna pop the convertible Uhoh. What

5 (2h 33m 15s):
You doing? That's my Porsche. Oh shit. Oh,

4 (2h 33m 19s):
Guy just shoots at him.

6 (2h 33m 25s):
Alright, now we're,

5 (2h 33m 26s):
Oh now we're getting a D.

4 (2h 33m 28s):
Yeah. So here we go. They're just shooting at 'em. Jesus

5 (2h 33m 33s):
Really bailed

6 (2h 33m 34s):
On that red one.

4 (2h 33m 34s):
Yeah. and I chasing him in a trans ham.

5 (2h 33m 37s):
A lot of great cars in this movie. Spoilers.

4 (2h 33m 41s):
It's a dumb ass movie,

5 (2h 33m 42s):
But every guy loved it, I'm sure. Oh

4 (2h 33m 43s):
Yeah. The Porsches are awesome. It's awesome to watch him speed away. and it his little Porsches What

6 (2h 33m 48s):
Type in Car and Charlie Sheen car movie.

4 (2h 33m 52s):
How Many's he got Another

6 (2h 33m 53s):
One came up. I've never heard of a sci-fi movie called Thera.

4 (2h 33m 56s):
What? Oh geez. What is that? It is like Night Rider don Don't, what's this movie? 1986. Phantom

5 (2h 34m 3s):
A Rath Man. I love old trailers given another chance. Aw. Are you new in town? Yeah. Who's the kid? After

17 (2h 34m 13s):
My back and the next second he was there like magic almost.

4 (2h 34m 16s):
Oh, he is mad

6 (2h 34m 17s):
At that. Sweet. What

5 (2h 34m 18s):
Is that? It's a cyber truck, dude. Oh,

6 (2h 34m 28s):
What is this?

4 (2h 34m 30s):
Oh my God's a kid out there using his

5 (2h 34m 31s):
Car to kill people. Ah, he's in it. Brandy

4 (2h 34m 36s):
Queen. He's kind of going off the rails, right? Yeah.

5 (2h 34m 41s):
Is is he? Yep.

4 (2h 34m 43s):
Yeah, he went a little off the rails. Yep. Boy, this movie looks dumb as shit. Yeah. Never heard

6 (2h 34m 47s):
Of it. It was the year before.

4 (2h 34m 49s):
You know, he was in a one good movie that people sleep on. It was a science fiction movie. Who? Randy Quaid? No, no. Charlie Sheen. The Arrival? No. Oh,

5 (2h 35m 1s):
I love that movie. V is, well,

4 (2h 35m 2s):
Is that, it was called,

5 (2h 35m 4s):
Isn't

4 (2h 35m 4s):
The Arrival the one?

5 (2h 35m 5s):
Well there's two of them. I, there's

4 (2h 35m 6s):
The Arrival. I love that.

5 (2h 35m 7s):
There's the Dennis, there's the new one where the spa looks like a coffee bean. The Arrival? Yeah.

4 (2h 35m 11s):
Oh, 'cause they're both the same name.

5 (2h 35m 13s):
I love this movie. Yeah, it

4 (2h 35m 14s):
Was just the rival. But this is the, this is the Charlie Sheen one. This is really good. This one is like underrated.

5 (2h 35m 19s):
I agree.

4 (2h 35m 20s):
Very underrated Sci-fi movie.

5 (2h 35m 22s):
The Aliens are weird. Like they're weird. The Leg thing. Yeah. Such a great reveal.

4 (2h 35m 26s):
It's cool. It's a cool movie. It's like, it doesn't get the credit it deserves. It's actually a cool movie. But then there's the other arrival, which is

5 (2h 35m 33s):
Really cool. I like that one too.

4 (2h 35m 35s):
That one's amazing. Yeah, because that one to me feels more like what it probably

5 (2h 35m 40s):
Would be like. Yeah. Like how do we communicate with these beings?

4 (2h 35m 42s):
Right,

5 (2h 35m 42s):
Right, right. That guy who did Sicario, that was so original too. He's doing Dune too. He did the first one

4 (2h 35m 47s):
That, oh, that's just Arrival. And the other one is The Arrival. Correct. Arrival's a fucking great movie. Yeah, that's a great movie. Yeah. What's the best alien movie of all time? It has to be Alien. I

5 (2h 36m 0s):
Mean It's right there.

4 (2h 36m 1s):
That has to be number one. That's the

5 (2h 36m 3s):
Best alien. What's in contention you think?

4 (2h 36m 5s):
Nothing

5 (2h 36m 6s):
Alien. And that's it. It's

4 (2h 36m 7s):
Alien. And then is everybody else playing for second Best?

5 (2h 36m 10s):
What about Independence Day? That's kind of like, ah, it's hilarious. I mean, that's not like Alien Center

4 (2h 36m 15s):
Is pretty goddamn damn good Too. Close Encounters is pretty fucking amazing. That might be the best UFO alien movie. But the best like in Space. Alien movie is Alien. I

6 (2h 36m 26s):
Try to be serious because I say Men in Black is a

5 (2h 36m 27s):
Good movie. But like That's a good point. That's a comedy. Know it's not even

4 (2h 36m 31s):
Serious. Anyway. Fun. It's a fun movie You wanna creep out. It's a fun movie. But as far as movies you'd say, you have to see this movie like The original Alien Ridley Scott. That movie is fucking incredible. That movie's so good. And that was a movie where Sigourney Weaver was the lead badass woman. Oh yeah. Which was a rare thing.

5 (2h 36m 49s):
Was that the first of that archetype? That kind of,

4 (2h 36m 51s):
I believe so. I believe so. If I know, if I had to think like of successful mainstream movie Super Heroine

6 (2h 36m 58s):
Who in addition the Body snatchers is

5 (2h 37m 0s):
Up there. Can I pee real quick? Where is it? Yeah,

4 (2h 37m 2s):
Yeah, yeah. Where's that? We'll, we'll pee. We'll be right back everybody, you know. And we're back.

5 (2h 37m 6s):
And we're back. And

4 (2h 37m 7s):
What were we just talking about?

5 (2h 37m 8s):
Sigourney Weaver and Aliens.

4 (2h 37m 10s):
So she had to be the first super heroine. Yeah, the first lead action movie. Badass Woman. Yeah. Who was before her?

5 (2h 37m 18s):
Don Don't know who would be before

4 (2h 37m 19s):
Her. Jackie Brown.

5 (2h 37m 21s):
No, that was after. That was after, right? Yeah, it was way after. Great.

4 (2h 37m 25s):
What was Jackie Brown? Oh, that's Karen Tarantino mine because Alien was 79. I missed that one.

5 (2h 37m 31s):
But yeah, there'd be no Michelle Rodriguez without Sigourney Weaver. The Tank Top Hot.

4 (2h 37m 36s):
She was ins too. She was in Aliens too with Sigourney

5 (2h 37m 39s):
Weaver. How many aliens are there?

4 (2h 37m 41s):
Four, five or six. Well, a bunch now. 'cause The Alien, the Covenant, that's a really good one. Was the, was the last one there was Prometheus and then the Covenant. Covenant was the last one, right? Is that correct?

5 (2h 37m 52s):
You see the New Predator?

4 (2h 37m 54s):
Yes. Is it

5 (2h 37m 55s):
Good?

4 (2h 37m 55s):
Were you talking about the one with the Native American lady?

5 (2h 37m 57s):
It's on, I think it was on Hulu or, or something

4 (2h 37m 58s):
Pre.

5 (2h 37m 59s):
That's dope. Okay. Okay.

4 (2h 37m 60s):
That's fun. Check it out. That's fun. It's ridiculous, but it's fun. It's good. Is

5 (2h 38m 4s):
It as good as the Charlie Sheen Porsche Heist movie? Almost. Almost. Okay. It's basically, if it's close, if it's close, I'm I'm game.

4 (2h 38m 11s):
It's fun. It's a fun movie. So female John Wick with Aliens.

5 (2h 38m 16s):
I'm sold. I'm sold.

4 (2h 38m 20s):
They even went like when they gave up, they went Predator versus Alien. Remember that? Oh yeah,

5 (2h 38m 24s):
Yeah, yeah. Dick the fuck are you doing? I feel like there was a Taco Bell tie. I'm sure. Yeah. Why not? Why wouldn't it be Get

4 (2h 38m 31s):
A plastic cut you Jackie Brown.

6 (2h 38m 32s):
You weren't really wrong. 'cause Pam Greer's, Jackie Brown, right?

5 (2h 38m 35s):
Oh, there was one before. So

6 (2h 38m 36s):
She was playing, she was in movies in the seventies. Right. That's why she was Jackie Brown

4 (2h 38m 39s):
I think. Right? What movies? Was she in the seventies though? Foxy Brown. Foxy Brown. The thing about it is though, I don't think they were big action movies. Like when you got a budget, like a Sigourney Weaver is the lead of a Rip Ripley Scott film. And it's a giant budget. It's a crazy movie. That was a huge hit. That movie was a huge hit.

5 (2h 39m 2s):
He did Gladiator too. Yes. They're doing Gladiator too. Ripley

4 (2h 39m 5s):
Scott has done, he did. One of the Aliens, what's

6 (2h 39m 8s):
Up? The first one was only 11 million budget.

4 (2h 39m 10s):
That's it. Yeah. Damn. So it was, but but it had big actors, right? Like that one dude Tom Chernik, whatever the fuck his name is. What's his

6 (2h 39m 19s):
Name? I mean in retrospect. Maybe don don't. That

4 (2h 39m 21s):
Guy was big at the time. I

6 (2h 39m 23s):
Was, this is five years before I was, what's

4 (2h 39m 24s):
His name? What? Tom Skirt. Tom Skirt. Yeah. He played the captain. That's a, it's a crazy ass fucking movie man. That's a good movie. Because that's probably what it's gonna be like. Yeah. It's probably gonna be like parasites. Just like parasites on earth. I mean, there's a lot of different instances in the wild of Creatures doing that. Like there's that wasp that injects tarantulas with its with its babies. It kills spiders and injects them with its babies. And the babies like feed off the carcass of the, of the spider. That's crazy. They're so evil.

5 (2h 39m 59s):
Isn't there one where there's like this parasite that grows out of an's head?

4 (2h 40m 2s):
Oh yeah. Yeah. It's, yeah, it's Cordes Sips mushrooms. That's what's that movie The Last Of Us is

5 (2h 40m 8s):
Based on? Dude, that's so good show. I love that. Show show's great. It show's great. Someone, someone, maybe it was a Reddit thread they were saying, 'cause they tried to pour it over video game movies for so long and they could never get it right. and I think the person in this thread was saying like, the, the kids are finally old enough in becoming directors where they can do it, the source material justice. Whereas before it was just these people who were like, who are trying to make a Mortal Kombat film, but they didn't grow up with, they don't have a love letter to it. You know? Yes. Yes. And now we're getting to see great video game IP Flourish. Like the Last of Us is phenomenal.

4 (2h 40m 41s):
Yeah. but it also has to be something like HBO where someone's willing to let someone, you know, get really wild. Yeah. You know, like that would be hard to, that was HBO right? Yeah. It'd be hard to do anywhere else. Like HBO Game of Thrones Sopranos. Right. They'll, they'll go out there with a show, you

5 (2h 40m 59s):
Know? Yeah. When I was coming up, I mean it just the video game movies that existed. There was Street Fighter with Van Damm. There was, there was Mortal Kom. So as a kid, you, you loved watching these movies, but they weren't Good

4 (2h 41m 11s):
Dragons Lair. Wasn't there a Dragons Lair movie?

5 (2h 41m 13s):
I don Dunno if there, what is that? A game. Remember that game? don Don't remember Dragons La

4 (2h 41m 16s):
Dragons Lair was a game that everybody used to play. Oh

5 (2h 41m 18s):
Yeah. Mario Brother

4 (2h 41m 18s):
Used play Mario Brothers Dragons Lair was a game that everybody used to play in like the 1980s. and it was like a cartoon of each thing that you did. You get to see whether or not you were successful. So you would do this little move and if you slipped and fell or if the, the, the night got you, or a dragon got you, you would die. But you get to see how you would die. So instead of it being like an interactive cartoon, it was like semi interactive. Like you've made the right choices. It would do the right thing and the character would do the right thing. And then you would, you would be hitting your joystick, getting it to go through these doors. And then every time you did it, like this little video would play out. It was very addictive. and it was the first time there was ever anything like this where there was like a game that you could watch, like a cartoon movie.

4 (2h 42m 6s):
Ah. And depending upon whether you did the right thing or the wrong thing, you would see this happen or see you get killed. What was that called? So that's 1983 full play through. So this is all the things that you would have to do to, to be successful. And every time you would do it, you'd, this little video would play

5 (2h 42m 24s):
Out. Is it kind of Prince of Persia e

4 (2h 42m 27s):
It's like, you know, dragons and knights and shit. It was fun. But you know, compare that to World of Warcraft or compare that to, you know, what's the big one that Diablo? The new Diablo? Or compare that to Call of Duty.

5 (2h 42m 40s):
Call of Duty. That's the big one.

4 (2h 42m 42s):
That's just crack. That's just straight heroin.

6 (2h 42m 46s):
Did you ever see this game? This was an arcade game that was like Dragons layer. This was the only thing that was really cool about this is this was holograms. So this was like floating above your controllers. Whoa. You controlled it a lot. Like Dragons Layer. That's how it worked was like these weird little videos that would play. Huh? Like an old west character. but it was all holograms. Like this doesn't do it. Injustice to why, how cool it

4 (2h 43m 7s):
Was. Oh. So in real life, when you're watching it on the video screen, it's a hologram. Yeah. It

6 (2h 43m 11s):
Was very strange.

4 (2h 43m 12s):
Whoa.

6 (2h 43m 13s):
It's like in the nineties in arcades. That's all. I remembered it because that's what I remember

4 (2h 43m 16s):
About Dragons Lair. That guy just busted that blank. A little too close to that dude's body from my liking. Oh,

5 (2h 43m 22s):
They used You

4 (2h 43m 22s):
Didn. You know, they didn't edit that out. It's not like they had one guy and they spliced in the second guy. How much did think that guy was right in front? He got paid $4.

5 (2h 43m 30s):
I got paid by Fortnite. They, they used my dancing in a emote. Really? And they, they paid me, they paid me like five grand.

4 (2h 43m 36s):
Nice. What'd you buy with it?

5 (2h 43m 38s):
Just like more Fortnite stuff. No, I'm just kidding. Nah, I have no idea what I spent with it. but it was kind of cool 'cause I post the dance video sometimes and I guess their programmers found one of my YouTube. Like, it had no views. Maybe they're comedy fans. That's how they found out. But like, they just hit me up and they go, Hey, the game's gonna use this excerpt of you dancing as like a skin or like an emote. We'll give you five grand. And I was like, fuck yeah. Wow. It's still one of my favorite credits in Hollywood because it's just so weird. And Bazar.

4 (2h 44m 5s):
But you were in Fortnite.

5 (2h 44m 7s):
I have a Fortnite dance called Do you play Fortnite? It's, it's called Nah, but I know it's really popular. So it's called the Vibe in Emote the Vibe. So if you look at the vibe in Emote, that's me dancing. Oh

4 (2h 44m 16s):
Shit. Lemme see that. Yeah.

5 (2h 44m 18s):
So they just took a, an excerpt from like me when I was dancing in my apartment in Koreatown. Because some, sometimes if I like really like a song, I'll just set the camera up and dance to it. There it's, yeah. That's me.

0 (2h 44m 31s):
Huh?

6 (2h 44m 33s):
There's so many little kids that probably had another shit. Oh, this dance,

4 (2h 44m 37s):
It looks very different than you bro.

5 (2h 44m 39s):
That's true.

4 (2h 44m 39s):
They could have just done that. They didn't have to pay you.

5 (2h 44m 42s):
No, you needed me to. You needed me as the

4 (2h 44m 44s):
Source. I think they could have

5 (2h 44m 45s):
Just paid you. No, I just wanna put this out there. Fortnite, I have more dances if you need more moves.

4 (2h 44m 49s):
Yeah. I don't think they needed to pay you for that. No. They need, I think they could have just snu that in if they were like less scrupulous

5 (2h 44m 55s):
Probably. But I think they were in under Hot Water because it was a moment in time where people were kind of upset that they were lifting some of the dances. Like remember that? Remember that Backpack kid? The floss dance. Remember that? The little kid. Yeah. Remember? He was like, his name is Backpack kid. I guess as a meme. You

4 (2h 45m 9s):
Talking about the kid on the boat?

5 (2h 45m 10s):
Nah, you know this, this, this is so dumb. You

4 (2h 45m 12s):
Ever see the little kid on the boat? Nah.

5 (2h 45m 14s):
But remember this dance?

4 (2h 45m 16s):
Yeah.

5 (2h 45m 17s):
Some kid in the backpack invented it. Really? And then they Fortnite used the dance and then there was some sort of, hey, people should be getting paid. The Carlton they put in there and there was this gray area of like, should we pay these people?

4 (2h 45m 31s):
So this kid is saying that that was his move and they stole it. Well

5 (2h 45m 34s):
They probably patched it up and played nice and everything, but he's the inventor of that dance.

4 (2h 45m 38s):
Really invented it himself. Yeah. I mean there's no dispute.

6 (2h 45m 42s):
Don don't know if anybody else claimed it or tried to say that it was them.

4 (2h 45m 45s):
What's that called? Flossing? Yeah.

5 (2h 45m 47s):
Yeah.

6 (2h 45m 49s):
It's a strange move too. So I don't know how he wouldn't have.

4 (2h 45m 52s):
It's pretty cool.

5 (2h 45m 54s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 45m 55s):
Yeah. I like watching people do silly dances. Some dude did this Michael Jackson thing the other day. Like he, he high fived this dude and then immediately started Moonwalking and it was really good. Yeah. It was like very impressive.

5 (2h 46m 7s):
It's so interesting seeing social media get to a place where there are like viable careers in, in these spaces that didn't exist before. Right? Like Charlie Delio or whatever. Like you could just be a cute girl dancing on TikTok and that's used to have to be able to sing and they would send you to acting school if you were just like a pretty person, right? Like they had to give you these other skill sets and now you can just like dance to certain songs.

4 (2h 46m 31s):
What do you think that's like psychologically? 'cause at least if you're a person who sings songs, like people really love my

5 (2h 46m 37s):
Songs. She probably sings now. You know, like, but it was a springboard. Like she got famous for her dancing. Does

4 (2h 46m 41s):
She sing?

5 (2h 46m 42s):
Probably don Don't Know. I know.

4 (2h 46m 43s):
Well imagine someone who doesn't sing. Right? Just imagine being famous just for being alive.

5 (2h 46m 47s):
That's an, that's an that's available to you now.

4 (2h 46m 50s):
That's a new thing. That's a new thing. That's a new thing. Yeah. Yeah.

5 (2h 46m 53s):
It's also interesting 'cause like when I got into comedy and like fame was a byproduct, but I think with younger people sometimes they just wanna be famous and they don't really care or know what for, I remember we were shooting a thing, we were shooting this sonic commercial years ago and the kids saw a camera that so many of 'em would say make me famous. It wasn't I want to do a thing that I love and then become famous. They wanted to be fame, fame. Fame is a byproduct. Not I know if it should be the goal.

4 (2h 47m 23s):
Yeah.

5 (2h 47m 24s):
I dunno if that's the healthiest.

4 (2h 47m 25s):
No, it's not a good, it's not a good goal

5 (2h 47m 27s):
Because it's, you'll never sustain it.

4 (2h 47m 30s):
You're never gonna be happy either. Yeah. Yeah. You should be happy if you're doing what you like to do. You know, the the, the idea of just being happy just by fame, that's a trick. And that's, that's gonna come with a lot of problems of its own. And you don't want them, this is you, you, you're better off just concentrating on what you love to do and just try to get good at it. Yeah. Yeah. Also, trying to just get famous. You're gonna do some stuff that you wish you hadn't done. You're gonna say some things you wish you hadn't said. You're gonna try to get a lot of attention. It's gonna come with a lot of extra baggage.

5 (2h 47m 58s):
Yeah. And the fame isn't exactly the fun. There are some parts of it that are fun, but then it also impedes your life. Like,

4 (2h 48m 6s):
Well it depends on if that's all you do, right? Like there's people out there that are, you know, air quotes influencers. All they do is like, either you know, you're the Kardashians or you're whoever you are, you're doing some thing and you're making videos and you're, that's your whole thing is you getting out there. It's not like exceptional content. It's not like they're doing crazy backflips and you know, climbing mountains. They're not doing anything crazy. Yeah. They're just being alive. Right. Being alive with a lot of money and a big

5 (2h 48m 33s):
Ass and being beautiful.

4 (2h 48m 35s):
That helps. That helps. But it's also being around famous people and you know, oh my God. It's the glamorous life and then people are sucked in. And if you edit it correctly where you do a nice fast, keep my attention span moving. You could suck me in for years.

5 (2h 48m 49s):
Yeah. You forget editing is such a strong necessity nowadays too. It's huge. Yeah. It's almost more important than a performer. I mean it's hyperbole. But a great editor can really elevate some content. Yes. Like schultz's guy's. Amazing I mean what Schultz's is fantastic to begin with, but editing when you're trying to grab people's attention in 20, 30 seconds. Yeah. With all the zooms and all these psychological tricks too. Like shaking it, having the text come in. So now even to promote as a younger comic people coming up, you have to be aware of, you might have a great bit, but you have to have it be a little cattier than it would be live. Right. You have to use a certain type of captions. You have to maybe zoom in.

5 (2h 49m 29s):
So you have to give yourself I don know the benefit of the doubt or set yourself up for success via editing.

4 (2h 49m 36s):
Yeah. Yeah. And there's so many different ways to do it now too. You know, it's like so many people found different avenues to make viral things. Like remember during the pandemic when Schultz had to turn your phone sideways thing? Oh yeah. Brilliant. Yeah. He had a totally different style of comedy than he does. 'cause he, you know, on stage he'll let things cook, he'll have long pauses. Give you time to think about some ridiculous shit that he just said's. And he's like, yeah, yeah.

5 (2h 50m 1s):
That's the fun of the live show.

4 (2h 50m 3s):
Right. But in the the these Instagram videos, sideways videos, he was very fast paced. He was very fast paced. Yeah. And it's punchline after punchline after punchline. He does the Netflix thing. You know, Schultz saves America. Punchline, punchline, punchline. Right. It's very fast. It's, it's really interesting. 'cause he adapted. Yeah. Found like some new pathway. That's a real sign of intelligence. Right. If you could find like a new way to do it and did the right And don't do zoom standups, son

5 (2h 50m 31s):
I mean of course. Yeah. No

4 (2h 50m 32s):
Shit. But find a, a way. There's a, there's another pathway. There's gotta be something else that a lot of people did. They, they found ways to do funny Clips. And

5 (2h 50m 40s):
You learn just by seeing what is being propagated. What, how people's behaviors. Even when I edit my standup, I, I take the air out. If I get a laugh, I'll cut the laugh short just to get to the next part. You're just competing against people's thumbs swiping up. So do you things like that sometimes. 'cause if you, you, you can make your joke a little tighter via editing. Mm.

4 (2h 51m 2s):
I see what

5 (2h 51m 3s):
You're saying. You know what I mean? Yeah. Because if you're an unknown and you're, you're just competing about people, you're competing with people swiping their thumb and watching something else. Yeah.

4 (2h 51m 11s):
I think you can't really worry about that. Yeah.

5 (2h 51m 13s):
Well it's all trial and error too. It's, people

4 (2h 51m 15s):
Still love standup dude. They're, they're still gonna love it. And if it, if it's below jazz in the so be it the listings, so

5 (2h 51m 22s):
Be it.

4 (2h 51m 23s):
I love it. It's, it's fine. It's doesn't need any more attention than it gets. It's fine. Yeah. And the people that love it love it. And the people that don't, that's fine too. It's all fine. Don't worry about who swipes and who doesn't swipe. Worry about doing what you enjoy. Do that thing and make it so that something you're like, I like it. This is good. I did it the way I wanted to do it. Bam.

5 (2h 51m 42s):
That's where I'm at now with standup. Perfect. I'm very happy, especially after doing that last special. I'm at a place where I'm comfortable. I called this special, this new one, House Money because things are great, you know, with my parents and financially and career wise.

4 (2h 51m 56s):
It's so funny. The pressure of your parents. It's like Yeah. Just an overwhelming blanket.

5 (2h 51m 59s):
It's a cliche. You know, the whole immigrant be a doctor, whatever.

4 (2h 52m 3s):
Yeah. They want you to be successful. They, it's hard to get over here.

5 (2h 52m 5s):
Yeah. But I love them. And I know what it was rooted in. It was just rooted in their offspring wanting Of course to do the best that they can. Yeah.

4 (2h 52m 11s):
Yeah. It's rooted in love. Yeah. It a little smothering. A little

5 (2h 52m 14s):
Smothering.

4 (2h 52m 15s):
But but you made it

5 (2h 52m 16s):
Out. Yeah. I think it allowed me to be where I'm at now. Fuck. Yeah. So it was rocket fuel and Yeah.

4 (2h 52m 20s):
There's something to be said for that. There's something to be said for some uncomfortable shit that makes you work harder. You know, because the, the worst situation is you're too comfortable and you don't work hard enough and then you're, then you don't have a career because you've just been lazy. You could have had a career. We've known a lot of guys like that. Right. You know, we know a lot of guys that just, for whatever reason, they didn't fucking put it together. Right. They didn't work as hard as everybody else did. They just didn't try as hard. They, for whatever reason, they just fucking cashed out. You know? Yeah. It sucks. It's a real bummer. 'cause you learned at an early age of the value of hard work and discipline and I think a lot of people just don't know the value of that. And they just would rather just indulge.

4 (2h 53m 2s):
'cause indulging is fun. We all love to do it. And standup comics are, you know, most of us are pretty indulgent and silly. So you gotta find a way to harness that. Like you're the boss of you and you gotta figure out a way to say like, Hey, I'm the boss of me. I will sit my ass down and I will fucking work on this shit. There's

5 (2h 53m 20s):
A level of entrepreneurship that I think is great about standup too. And, and I think that's why I worked so hard is 'cause I knew what my life would be like if I just stayed at Boeing. It was a means to an end. It's not like I did engineering just so I can get a legit job and be able to move out to LA and, and, and drive up to Hollywood. So it was always a means to an end. But I would always, when I'm in that cubicle, I knew what my life would be like if I just stayed at Boeing. Yep. Whereas I didn't know what it'd be. Like I knew what I wanted it to be and that drove me. Whereas, okay, I know this movie. I don't know this movie and I love this. Right. So that was the fire for me.

4 (2h 53m 57s):
Right.

5 (2h 53m 57s):
Just not wanting to live for tomorrow.

4 (2h 54m 0s):
Yeah. Yeah.

5 (2h 54m 2s):
And, and when you pursue something and when you pursue something like that, it's, it's, it's, it's exciting. It's fulfilling.

4 (2h 54m 9s):
It's very exciting, but it's also very daunting. Right. Especially in the beginning. God, I remember the early days where I wasn't sure whether it was gonna make it, it was just when there I was gonna be able to make a living. It was, it's so weird. Such a weird feeling. You know, you're so, everything's like open-ended. You never know. You know, you don't know the one B, the the next set you have where you bomb. Oh my God, am I gonna have to quit? Do I suck forever? Yeah. Am I gonna figure this out? Those are the best moments. When I was young, when I was fir starting out, it was after bombs, after bombs. I always came out sharp.

5 (2h 54m 39s):
You the sharper the most.

4 (2h 54m 40s):
You come out so much sharper, it sucks, but you either get better or you quit.

5 (2h 54m 44s):
Yeah.

4 (2h 54m 45s):
You get better or

5 (2h 54m 46s):
You quit. I always think about that. Whenever people get into standup, if they bomb and they don't love standup, they're out pretty fast. Yeah. Because that's not a fun feeling. I understand. Unless you have a screw loose and you love it. And I'm that way. Whereas I was more emboldened after a bomb. I was like, okay, why didn't it work? How do I tweak this? Right. I took it as, as the audience being an challenge editor. Challenge. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was fuel.

4 (2h 55m 7s):
It's undeniable. They either laugh or they don't. And, and you know, people used to say like, I think Bill Cosby used to say there's no bad crowds, just bad comedians. But he was out of his fucking mind clearly. and I used to say about that way. He never had to work the places that I had to work. I had to work bars in the middle of Massachusetts and Rhode Island and fucking Connecticut. Like, shut your mouth. There's bad, bad audiences. But through those bad audiences, you learn cloud, you know, crowd control, mitigation shit. You learn how to work the crowd. You learn how to like, capture people's attention so you don't let 'em drift off. But you don't like you, you can't, they're not all good crowds.

5 (2h 55m 45s):
You learn how to corral energy. Yeah. Also, if someone is being disruptive, do they, do they have a good heart? Do they mean well? Yeah. Just a little too tipsy and kind of harness that back into your set and be playful. 'cause some comics don't realize and they just go nuclear on the person. Yeah. And then it's like beating up a toddler. Right. Because then you've lost the goodwill of the crowd. Everyone's like, yo, you just fucked this chick up

4 (2h 56m 6s):
For no reason.

5 (2h 56m 7s):
And and then you try to do a joke and they go, no, you're a monster dude.

4 (2h 56m 9s):
Yeah. It's basically like having road rage. Like you're in the car and you're like, shut the fuck up. You know, like, what the fuck you doing bro? Fuck you. No fuck you. Right, right, right. You're, you're so amped up. 'cause you're already in a car and you're driving fast. When you're on stage, your brain is amped up when someone chimes in. You're like, what? Shut up. You stupid bitch.

5 (2h 56m 26s):
Even though he's like, technically.

4 (2h 56m 28s):
And then it's like, oh my God, what have

5 (2h 56m 29s):
You done? And then there's a nicer way to say, keep it down. Yeah. And you may have lost the crowd by saying you stupid

4 (2h 56m 34s):
Bitch. But then there's some people that you just have to address. Yeah. Like you have to get rid of 'em. They, they're gonna ruin your show no matter what you do. And they do it on purpose.

5 (2h 56m 41s):
Sometimes they're so malicious and mean. Yeah. That you have car blanche to fucking lay into this guy. Yeah. And it's kind of fun. 'cause sometimes these people are so singular minded and they think the world revolves around them when the crowd starts booing the person. Yeah. And you see that switch in their eyes. Like, oh, they've been perceiving the whole situation wrong. Right. I go, why is this entire room booing you if you are the good guy? Right. You know what I mean? Yeah. Everyone's like, get the fuck shut. Fuck you. They got babysitters and shit. You know, they hate this guy.

4 (2h 57m 9s):
Yeah.

5 (2h 57m 10s):
So I, I kind of like teaching a lesson. Sometimes when that happens I'm like, I do a million sets. This is fun for me to, to teach a grown man a lesson. Because you hear, you hear all these booze. Why are they hissing at you dude?

4 (2h 57m 22s):
Yeah.

5 (2h 57m 23s):
It's fun to educate sometimes.

4 (2h 57m 24s):
Well some people just, they're drunk and they don't even realize what the consequences of what they're doing are. There's just being so selfish. They don't care about the other 300 people in the room. Yeah. They just want to just yell out.

5 (2h 57m 35s):
But most of the time they just, they mean well, but they've had a few drinks and you can and you can reign them in. Booze

4 (2h 57m 41s):
Is the best and the worst thing for comedy.

5 (2h 57m 44s):
Yeah, for real. Ideally you want everyone who's great on it.

4 (2h 57m 48s):
Yeah. You want, people can handle their liquor, but every now and then you'll get That's not true.

5 (2h 57m 54s):
How is it at mothership? Because you run a tight ship. No pun intended. 'cause you gotta put the phone in the bag.

4 (2h 57m 59s):
Yeah. Well you have to kick people out that are disrupting the show. Does

5 (2h 58m 2s):
It happen? Does it happen still?

4 (2h 58m 3s):
Yeah, it's happened. It happens. It's gonna happen. No matter if you have live comedy, you're gonna have people that are just hammered. We had a lady go into a K hole. She was on ketamine and she went into a K hole in the middle of the crowd.

5 (2h 58m 13s):
How is a K hole audience member? What's that like? They

4 (2h 58m 17s):
Didn't know if she took it opiates or what she took It

5 (2h 58m 20s):
Was panic. Panic. Were you like, this joke's really good, she's fucking orgasming.

4 (2h 58m 22s):
No, I wasn't, I wasn't there and it was the night that I was off, I think, or it wasn't on the show. I don't remember what it was. But either way, the lady went into a K hole and they, they had the Narcan ready. They thought she had, you know, overdose. But no, she was just fucking gone. 'cause a lot of people take this nasal spray of ketamine and they take it like as the fucking quasi dimensional traveling in the middle of a comedy show.

5 (2h 58m 49s):
I don't understand when people go that hard and then pay tickets to an expensive show, like some people will go to a concert and just be fucked up beyond belief. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You go, you go

4 (2h 58m 60s):
You. That's,

5 (2h 59m 2s):
You're not even mentally here to enjoy Beyonce or whatever it is.

4 (2h 59m 5s):
Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Well I think this is the experience. Sometimes people say, I'm gonna take an edible and go see a show. You're like, ah.

5 (2h 59m 11s):
How do you finesse that though? Like that lady on, on Kay don don't know if she was really processing the jokes. Right?

4 (2h 59m 17s):
Oh, she definitely wasn't. She was. She was gone. I mean she collapsed. She was gone. Yeah. I've never done ketamine like that. I don't know what happens. But the, the way they do it, if you do a lot of it, you go into what they call a K hole and whatever that means. But I know that people have like hallucinations and they have like these weird experiences where they're interacting with interdimensional beings. They're in empty apartment buildings and space and shit. Weird stuff. Weird stuff. Yeah. Yeah.

5 (2h 59m 47s):
It seems like You don't need a show for that. It seems

4 (2h 59m 49s):
Like a heavy drug. It seems like one that you could be out in the town on that stuff. Yeah. But I guess people micro dose it. I think, I guess that's the thing.

5 (2h 59m 58s):
Not this girl,

4 (2h 59m 59s):
The de the anti-depression effects from microdosing. They used to have a ketamine drip thing that Neil did. Oh yeah. Neil Brennan did it. Yeah. Yeah. He said he thought that he would go to a doctor's office and it would be like mild. He's like, no, I'm tripping balls at the doctor's office on an IV drip of ketamine. Just so I could interacting with space beings and shit.

5 (3h 0m 21s):
Yeah. I remember when he was going through a phase of like trying different things for his depression. He was doing, he showed me a video of the magnet thing and then Kay I guess and then ayahuasca. Yeah. He was telling me about it. Like he was doing it a lot. I didn't know that you could do ayahuasca that frequently.

4 (3h 0m 36s):
Whoops. You're probably not supposed to I mean how much

5 (3h 0m 40s):
He's doing a lot. He's a pioneer dude.

4 (3h 0m 41s):
He's a wild dude. but it did help him. It definitely did help

5 (3h 0m 43s):
Him. Yeah. I've noticed. I've noticed a difference. Yeah.

4 (3h 0m 45s):
He talked about it is like, I forget what

5 (3h 0m 47s):
Percentage he said, well he believes in dog now and stuff. Just like, oh yeah,

4 (3h 0m 50s):
It might be real. It might be something to it.

5 (3h 0m 53s):
I'm so scared of ayahuasca. He he actually asked me because the, I like control.

4 (3h 0m 59s):
Right. You had a bad mushroom trip, right? Yeah. 'cause you like

5 (3h 1m 1s):
Control. Well, yeah, exactly. And you can't control when you're on drugs. You know?

4 (3h 1m 5s):
Not when those not mushrooms. That's for damn sure. You have to, and if you try, it'll take you down a very bad road. Yes. You gotta learn how to

5 (3h 1m 12s):
Let go, let go. I know Ari Shafi was because Ari was living in LA at the time.

4 (3h 1m 17s):
Paul Shore does Ayahuasca. Oh, he just

5 (3h 1m 19s):
Did it. He

4 (3h 1m 20s):
Talked about it. Let's go I mean don don't know what he's like. I,

5 (3h 1m 24s):
Everyone said like what you do.

4 (3h 1m 25s):
If he starts wearing wooden beads, I'm gonna strangle him. As soon as you do too much ayahuasca you start wearing wooden beads. I'm always like, bro, no, you're tapped

5 (3h 1m 33s):
In, dude.

4 (3h 1m 34s):
You okay bro? Do you have an eagle feather in your hair? 'cause I'll kill you.

5 (3h 1m 41s):
Have you done ayahuasca?

4 (3h 1m 43s):
No.

5 (3h 1m 43s):
No. So then what's your, why haven't you

4 (3h 1m 46s):
I haven't had the opportunity. I haven't had people that I want to do it with. I haven't had a, it's illegal in America, so. Oh, it is. Either you do it illegally here or you go somewhere else. Yeah. Yeah. It shouldn't be. But also maybe you should know who the fuck is making it and how they're doing it. And I've done DMT though, which is the, the what? That's the active ingredient.

5 (3h 2m 9s):
I saw a guy take a hit from a DMT pen at a party. Jesus. and it was like unsettling to watch him. 'cause you just see him blast off in a chair. Like this is too personal. Yeah. It's almost like seeing a guy jerk off or something.

4 (3h 2m 21s):
Very weird. You do that in front of everybody. He

5 (3h 2m 23s):
Just blasts off for like five minutes and you like, I go, okay.

4 (3h 2m 27s):
Jesus.

5 (3h 2m 27s):
It's kind of weird.

4 (3h 2m 28s):
Yeah. It's a pot drug.

5 (3h 2m 30s):
Like it's a hit off of a vape pen.

4 (3h 2m 32s):
I think it's a portal into another dimension. I really do. I know that sounds completely insane. Yeah. Especially from the host of Fear Factor. Right. But I think it's in your mind, I mean they know that your brain produces those chemicals. Why would your brain produce chemicals that let you interact with beings in other dimensions that are giving you wisdom? Why? Why would that be something your brain makes? I don't know. But the speculation is that your brain makes it when it thinks it's gonna die. And that you, when you interact with that dimension, that's your spirit, that's your soul. That's what the essence of you, not your, your physical being and your life experiences and your memories. That's the essence of you goes to this place and

5 (3h 3m 12s):
That's the only way to access it. Or

4 (3h 3m 15s):
Maybe some people say you can access it through kundalini yoga. This, I've never done it that way. But there's, I have done what they call holotropic breathing. I've, I've had psychedelic experiences just from breathing. You can get to like an acid state just breathing. It's really wild. But the, the, the physical process of dying, like when people have near death experiences, it sounds a lot like a psychedelic trip. Like a lot of these people that go to the light and then come back, like they, they die for like 30 seconds and then they come back and they have this crazy experience of interacting with beings and interacting with angels and interacting with devils and weird shit, man.

4 (3h 4m 3s):
And a lot of them have these weird stories and they've tried to like map out what the fuck is happening with the human mind while that's going on. But it, it's just a lot of speculation in terms of like, they didn't even know like what part of the brain is producing this chemical. They knew it's pro produced by the liver and I think it's produced by the lungs, but like they think it's produced by the whole brain. Now isn't that what Straussman said the last time he was here? But your brain makes the most potent psychedelic drug known to man. That's one of the reasons why that stuff is such a short, like the time that you're, if you take DMT, your body brings it back to baseline very quickly.

4 (3h 4m 43s):
Like how long, it's like you're blasted for 10, 15 minutes and then you're back. Huh. And you're stone colds over and you were just in another dimension. That's crazy. It's, but,

5 (3h 4m 52s):
And you're back to the party like

4 (3h 4m 54s):
Nothing happens. And here's what's even more crazy. You have a really hard time remembering it. You had one of the most insane experiences you could ever possibly imagine. You remember little snippets of it just like a dream. Yeah.

5 (3h 5m 4s):
I'm like that. I'm, I'm bad at remember remembering dreams. Yeah. Actually could a dream everybody is or something.

4 (3h 5m 8s):
Yeah, everybody is. And that, that is like a function of that same thing that when you take the actual chemical, when you take the actual DMT molecule, it's the same thing that happens. You have a very difficult time holding onto those memories. 'cause memories are weird anyway, you know, we all have false memories, we have distorted memories. You have an approximation of things.

5 (3h 5m 30s):
I'm jealous. Some people have iron trap memories. I'll talk to a buddy and he, he'll bring up an event from six years ago and like, I don't work that way. I'm so jealous. Some people just have super memories like that.

4 (3h 5m 41s):
They definitely do with some things. You know, I'd always wonder like, do they have less experiences in their life? So is that like more memorable because they don't have anything that stands out from the norm?

5 (3h 5m 51s):
I think it's the way their brain processes information and events like it fi has a better filing system or something.

4 (3h 5m 56s):
Well some people definitely have photographic memories. Like they can remember everything absolutely perfectly. You know that lady from Taxi that show Taxi? Yeah. Yeah.

5 (3h 6m 4s):
I was, I was just thinking about that 60 minutes piece that they, she was on there talking about like she's one of these people like a With super memory.

4 (3h 6m 11s):
Super memory. Yeah. Like very different than normal. Good memory.

5 (3h 6m 15s):
Even people who can remember lines very easily. I'm so jealous of Oh yeah. You know, 'cause what a leg up you have over the competition. If you could just read a thing and be like, got it. Yeah. And you could do it.

4 (3h 6m 24s):
I know. That's crazy. That's probably her Mary Lou Henner. Yeah. Highly superior autobiographical memory. A rare condition identified in only a hundred people worldwide. This trait drives her to advocate for more funding for brain research. That's insane. That's incredible. It's a super,

5 (3h 6m 39s):
But when,

4 (3h 6m 40s):
When you hear her like recite things that she can remember, it's bananas. Yeah, it's bananas. But that would be an amazing advantage to be an actor for sure. You read the script once and like, I got it. Got it. I know exactly what you're gonna say and then I know exactly what I'm gonna say.

5 (3h 6m 54s):
How are you on news Radio with lines?

4 (3h 6m 57s):
I was okay. Yeah. You know, I was Okay. It's, it's a complicated little thing to remember.

5 (3h 7m 3s):
Everyone's process is different too. How to retain that. Just going over it. For

4 (3h 7m 6s):
Me it was always just repetition. You have to do a lot of repetition over and over and over again. Say it out loud. Write it down.

5 (3h 7m 11s):
I always hear Get on your feet. So like Pace and say the words. So it's in Body dev. Sure. I heard Riz Riz Ahmed. You know him as an actor? No, he's great. He's in Sound of Music or Sound of Metal.

4 (3h 7m 23s):
The two very different movies. By the way. I know

5 (3h 7m 26s):
He was in the Sound of Music or the Sound of Metal.

4 (3h 7m 28s):
One of those,

5 (3h 7m 29s):
I'm pretty sure it was Sound of Metal. But he's a super talented actor and I heard he like runs while he does his lines and just get himself out of his. Wasn't he an Oppenheimer?

4 (3h 7m 38s):
Was was

5 (3h 7m 39s):
He? I feel like everyone was an Oppenheimer.

4 (3h 7m 40s):
Oppenheimer's a damn good movie. How crazy is it? They went after him for communism. I. don I. don think

5 (3h 7m 45s):
Somebody else. What was that?

4 (3h 7m 46s):
How crazy is they went after him for communism. Oh,

5 (3h 7m 48s):
That's what they got him on. Well that's

4 (3h 7m 49s):
What they were going after him for.

5 (3h 7m 51s):
That was the thing. Dude. They get you.

4 (3h 7m 53s):
Yeah, but I mean the guy who invented the fucking bomb leave Mal alone. Yeah. Leave him. Him alone.

5 (3h 8m 1s):
What if the movie ended after they dropped the bomb and everyone cheers And then you see the credits. Yeah, but it's funny because

4 (3h 8m 5s):
They died.

5 (3h 8m 6s):
Yeah. But you saw they had to do that back end where he felt bad and shit. Oh, Of course. He's like, what? What have I done?

4 (3h 8m 11s):
One of my favorite all time videos. Let's leave it on. This is the Oppenheimer video of him describing what he said when the first bomb went off, when he quoted the Bava Gita. Let's watch. We'll leave with this Faheem. You're the fucking man.

5 (3h 8m 25s):
Thanks

4 (3h 8m 25s):
For having me. I appreciate you. Love you to death miss you. Thank you so much. Your new comedy special. Yeah,

5 (3h 8m 31s):
It's called House Money. It's on my YouTube channel. So if you go to youtube.com/ Fahim manir, it's for

4 (3h 8m 36s):
Free and it feir, it's for free. And Fahim Manir on Instagram and all the other social media platforms. Yeah. And always the Comedy store. Yeah. Oppenheimer

20 (3h 8m 49s):
Shit,

21 (3h 8m 50s):
We knew the world would not be the same. Few people laughed, few people cried. Most people were silent. I remembered the line from the Hindu scripture. The Bava Gita Vishnu is trying to persuade the prince that he should do his duty and to impress him. Takes on his multi-armed form and says, now I am become deaf.

21 (3h 9m 36s):
The destroyer of worlds. I suppose we all thought that one way or another.

5 (3h 9m 45s):
That's a quote.

4 (3h 9m 46s):
That's a fucking

5 (3h 9m 47s):
Bar.

4 (3h 9m 48s):
That's a bar right

5 (3h 9m 49s):
There. Bar somebody put some hip hop beat underneath

4 (3h 9m 50s):
That. Yeah. It probably is already in a song. That's a good point. That should be in a Wutang song. Alright. Goodbye everybody. Thank you. Bye. Bye.