4 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from Brave New World. It's a brand new streaming series on you guessed it peacock. It's based on the Aldous Huxley novel you probably remember from high school and ask some questions that are pretty relevant today. How much freedom is worth sacrificing for happiness is the insane pace of Modern Life distracting us from what really matters and what stands between us and Utopia all episodes of Brave New World are available now on peacock the new streaming service from NBC Universal sign up at peacock. tv.com to stream

1 (31s):
now

2 (44s):
It's the explained. I'm Sean Rama's firm and I'm joined by today explained

4 (48s):
reporter producer Halima. Sha because the rent is still too damn High

2 (52s):
Halima. The rent is too damn high. And what's happening right now is that the rent might not be paid at least a quarter of us workers are unemployed or underemployed because of the pandemic and it's not clear. And they're going to go back to work. So a lot of them are going to tell you that they're waiting for the government to do something so they can keep a roof over their heads. And what's the government going to do besides those, you know one time $1,200 checks. Well, that check was paid for by the cares act and another major provision of it was boosted unemployment insurance. It provides people with an extra $600 a week on top of the unemployment insurance that they're getting from the state, but all of that is Going to expire on July 31st.

2 (1m 38s):
And if the government doesn't take action, there will probably be an avalanche of evictions by the end of the summer Sam estimates. Say somewhere around 20 million renters will not have a home and tenants are starting to organize fight back and call for rent cancellation cancellation cancellation. They want landlords to give them a break for a couple of months and they want the government to pass some kind of legislation that's going Provide relief that lasts past the summer and you've been following this

4 (2m 10s):
story and you actually went to some sort of like rent protest,

2 (2m 12s):
right? Yeah. I went to a tenant rally in DC a few weeks back which by the way was a car rally because of the virus. So people were circling the block around the capital cars were Bumper to Bumper and had effectively block traffic. This was where I met a guy named Sammy borma. He's really hard to miss because every inch of his Car was covered in rent cancellation signs.

4 (2m 38s):
He was also blasting this song that he called Ms. Marred. Miss Mars is about action and I kind of like, you know, they give you energy

2 (2m 47s):
until the pandemic Sammy had three jobs

4 (2m 49s):
at work and I it's as a cook and I work with that Union Local 23 as organizer and he was an Uber driver but he was furloughed from his cooking job laid off at the union and stop driving Uber to limit his

2 (3m 1s):
exposure. So now he's here

4 (3m 4s):
we are. 19 there's no income. There's no job is hard to pay the rent if the big Corporation may be able to get bail out why the tenants low income workers negative below

2 (3m 14s):
right now tenants struggling to make rent are relying on a patchwork of government programs

4 (3m 20s):
since covid-19. There have been some limited protections put into place for renters to prevent

2 (3m 27s):
evictions. This is Diana until she's president and CEO of the National Low Income Housing Coalition, basically, Lee there's a federal eviction moratorium that covers people who live in federally funded housing and then there are some state and local moratoriums to but Diane says that only covers about 30% of renter's there are

4 (3m 48s):
many renters who are left

2 (3m 50s):
unprotected Sammy and his family are among those who are unprotected. He lives just outside DC in Alexandria, Virginia, Virginia had an eviction moratorium because of covid but it expired late last month low. Come renters like Sammy are relying on the one-time stimulus check and expanded unemployment insurance, but that all goes away on July 31st.

4 (4m 14s):
We can say with certainty that if there is not a significant Federal intervention that there will be a wave of evictions and a spike in homelessness across the country. And in fact in many ways that wave has already begun and we need to work now to prevent it from becoming a tsunami and we're running out of a Time Late last month, I went to the five building complex where Sammy lives his building is home to a lot of immigrants working in the service industry family shares a one-bedroom apartment with his wife.

4 (4m 58s):
My name is Layla Muhammad.

2 (4m 59s):
Ali has daughter disa and 11 years old and

4 (5m 3s):
I'm going to sixth grade

2 (5m 4s):
and it's 10 month old son Jawad. Yeah, their home is about 550 square feet. It's hard to believe that the family spends all of their time here during the pandemic because it is spotless shoes come off at the front door. Each room is a kind of multi-purpose space the bedroom doubles as a nursery the combined living and dining room has a couch and TV in one corner and a baby's playpen and the other in the middle is open space and a tapestry of the Gaba. This apartment is the first place that Sammy and his family have shared together.

2 (5m 46s):
It's because he immigrated to the us alone in the 1990s. Sammy was born in Sudan and grew up in Saudi Arabia for most of his marriage his wife and child stayed in Saudi Arabia and he sent money home, but two years ago. They joined him in Virginia and started making a life together. His daughter disha even enrolled in the local elementary school

4 (6m 10s):
coming from Stockholm and two years ago to see the nice thing English at that time in during that short time. She be able to catch up with the language are great really is like seeing a hundred percent last year and this year, so they make me so happy. She proved herself. She's a good child when

2 (6m 31s):
it come to the school. These are graduated from Elementary School this year. Sammy wanted to throw her a party but the virus made that difficult so he got creative.

4 (6m 41s):
I commit a folder stuff I want to do for her. So I just go Bella store the current apartment. I find a phone and a good price is a use form, but is that a good condition? So I put in the Box she opened it she was so happy screaming and jumping

2 (6m 58s):
apartment is still decorated in the red streamers from her party. But it's hard to stay celebratory under the circumstances.

4 (7m 9s):
My rent is the 1500 and my car loan is 520 and my insurance

2 (7m 16s):
Tammy says he's drained his savings. He's got about $3,000 a month or unemployment insurance chunk of which is going away at the end of July and is usually expenses add up to about 25 hundred dollars a

4 (7m 27s):
month. That's not including things. Like food clothes diapers didn't have a credit card lobbying panel, like know what this 50 Sammy has a lot of Neighbors in the same

2 (7m 38s):
boat. So in April, they went on strike no more rent until the jobs come back.

4 (7m 45s):
So we put that in the letter then we start send it to people at the text message into spread around. So by the second week we have over 300 people signed the defender

2 (7m 55s):
the Apartments management company Bell Partners said they've taken steps to ease the financial burden that covid-19 brought. In a written statement, they said from April through June. We offered the chance to enroll in a payment plan to any Resident experiencing financial difficulty due to covid-19. We also extended due dates for rent and waved late payments and credit card fees. We have attempted to reach every resident by email phone and hand-delivered notice prior to taking any further action. Sammy is one of the residents who the apartment complex contacted. They're taking steps to a victim.

4 (8m 38s):
Are you worried about eviction being honest with you? Yes, if it last night, I was there I wake up till three o'clock in the

2 (8m 44s):
morning this week. Sammy will go to court and he'll find out if he can get an extension to stay in his apartment longer. After the break Sammy gets an answer and Congress tries to save

4 (9m 4s):
Americans from losing their

1 (9m 5s):
homes.

4 (9m 17s):
This is Advertiser content

2 (9m 19s):
when I say Utopia what comes to

4 (9m 22s):
mind? Birds chirping Lush natural beauty dialed up and vibrant Technicolor. Is it within reach your world explain? You are an essential part of a perfect social body everybody in that place. Everybody happy now while the peacock original series Brave New World takes place in a scientific futuristic Utopia a concept of nothing new Sir Thomas More. Introduce the theory 500 years

2 (9m 55s):
ago, but we keep

4 (9m 57s):
looking for that Community identity stability of Aldous huxley's Utopia and not finding it Americans are the unhappiest they've been in decades and we're increasingly lonely. Whereas in a Utopia longs to everyone else in 1943 the psychologist Abraham Maslow developed a theory of Utopia one that allows total self-determination in basic terms Maslow's Theory says that in No Utopia, we decide for ourselves what we need and how we're going to get it in. Huxley's Utopia citizens always get what they want and don't want what they can't get

2 (10m 34s):
sounds pretty good right then. Why can't we make it happen

4 (10m 39s):
for a utopian society to work? We might need to disband some of the things we hold dearest marriage government privacy individualism even family. See for yourself. If a utopian world is as perfect as it seems watch Brave New World now streaming only on peacock. All right Lima. So we're going to hear about Sammy's decision. But before

2 (11m 11s):
we do that, we're going to talk about whether anything is going to be done to save him

4 (11m 16s):
and the millions of Americans

2 (11m 18s):
who are in a similar situation, right? Yeah, covid-19 has brought on economic hardship that has left renters like Sammy really worried about eviction but experts will tell you that this housing crisis was a long time coming. Here's die. And tell from the National Low Income Housing Coalition,

4 (11m 39s):
even before covid-19 came to our country, you know, we were in the midst of a severe affordable housing crisis. We had a shortage of 7 million homes affordable and available for the lowest income renters

2 (11m 53s):
a Harvard study found that about a quarter of us renders spend more than half of their income on housing, which means that after paying rent. There's not much money left to spend on things at their these need and that data is from 2018 long before the recent economic downturn. So for low income families rent is likely an even bigger burden today.

4 (12m 17s):
So when you have such limited income to begin with you're always One Financial emergency away from not being able to pay the rent and potentially facing eviction and worst cases homelessness. So for many of these households coronavirus is that Financial

2 (12m 33s):
emergency and Decades of the neck. These make those emergencies worse

4 (12m 38s):
structural racism that leaves people of color disproportionately low income disproportionately rent burdened disproportionately likely to be

2 (12m 48s):
homeless on top of that. We have a relatively new problem of a shortage of affordable housing

4 (12m 55s):
homelessness as it exists today

2 (12m 58s):
where you see people

4 (12m 60s):
sleeping in encampments and in cars and RVs and showering at the Local Y in order to get ready to go to work or to school the next day that didn't always exist in our country. And if we went back to the late 1970s, we'd find a Time both when we had a small surplus of homes affordable for lowest income people and we had none of the pervasive homelessness that exists in our country today and the main difference between Queen then and now is the level of funding going towards solutions to keep people affordably house fair housing for all.

4 (13m 47s):
all human beings who live in this country is now a part of the American way of

2 (13m 57s):
life in the 60s when the Fair Housing Act was signed the Johnson Administration funded subsidized housing on a national scale, but that only lasted a few

4 (14m 8s):
years I Richard Nixon do solemnly swear by when President Nixon was re-elected his administration

2 (14m 14s):
stopped building public housing.

4 (14m 16s):
The federal budget is out of control and we Face runaway deficits of almost in the Reagan Administration.

2 (14m 24s):
Drastic cuts to rental assistance programs today black and brown renters are bearing the brunt of the housing crisis the racial wealth Gap today is as wide as it was in 1968 and covid-19 is the straw that is breaking the camel's back

4 (14m 40s):
Health officials have preached that covid-19 doesn't discriminate but in Chicago most of the people who've gotten sick or died are people of color. The reports are startling and North Carolina, Connecticut and Michigan to

2 (14m 59s):
Congress knows about the circumstances of people like Sammy there are a few efforts moving forward right now that could help people with housing Washington State congressman Denny heck introduced a bill that passed the house this summer

4 (15m 13s):
we introduced the emergency rental assistance act providing a hundred billion dollars to provide relief to those who are particularly stressed by the current

2 (15m 24s):
situation. It provides bill. Ian's to help homeowners with their mortgages to and it extends the eviction moratorium on federally funded housing. What it doesn't do is cancel the rent or create a blanket ban on evictions for all renters heck says that extending eviction moratoriums alone will pass expenses off to others like mom-and-pop landlords

4 (15m 47s):
a family that decides instead of building a 401k for their retirement. They're going to buy duplexes that's their retirement program they have Is on those duplexes and if we Grant an eviction moratorium all that does is transfer the problem to this couple who is got their retirement nest egg in the form of these duplexes. For example that the bill comes due on and then they get foreclosed

2 (16m 11s):
on Denny hex Bell was wrapped into the heroes act a second proposed coronavirus relief package that was passed by democrats in the house, but the build doesn't have much of a shot in the republican-led Senate.

4 (16m 24s):
I think there are some sin. It Republicans that are beginning to understand the nature of the need here whether or not we can get them there by the end of the month or the first part of August remains to be seen

2 (16m 37s):
Republicans might support a second relief package, but it's unclear if their version would Target evictions on Wednesday Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said kids in

4 (16m 48s):
school. Jobs and Healthcare are likely to be the focus of the bill. I'll be laying out probably next

2 (16m 57s):
week. Diane said that even if rental relief does pass it's a short-term fix. She says to get out of decades-long housing crisis. We have to think much bigger those Solutions include long-term rental assistance for the lowest income renters. We also need to be building

4 (17m 17s):
more apartments and we need Sure that those apartments are affordable to the people who need it

2 (17m 22s):
the most and then we also need cash

4 (17m 26s):
assistance that's available to low-income renters who can

2 (17m 29s):
generally make ends meet

4 (17m 32s):
but have an unexpected financial crisis and need some cash

2 (17m 37s):
in the meantime Sammy's rent strike continues and the threat of eviction looms

4 (17m 43s):
I don't have no brother. No Chasm on could not know if you nobody this by myself and the same time what my life should I have nobody? You know just leave me and her that's one of the things go with my mind a lot of is anything happening to me? What did I do? What are we gonna

1 (17m 58s):
go

2 (18m 5s):
Sammy's apartment is a source of shelter as much as it is a milestone of the families first apartment together

4 (18m 11s):
their first holiday was Ramadan. It was awesome to have that separation with my family. In this apartment because kind of like the first Ramadan knee and them ourselves in this apartment. Do you feel like you've gotten closer to your family during this time? Yeah a lot a lot because we'll be there for almost 11 years now, but in that 11 years only two years together custody, although they are normally they are Saudi Arabia every year take a vacation will see them and come back.

2 (18m 47s):
He even floated the idea of his wife and kid. He's going back to Saudi Arabia amid all the financial hardship, but after going through a pandemic together and getting so close. The old Arrangement is hard to imagine

4 (18m 60s):
it would now if I ask them, who knows what go you want to go back as like a No-No right now. No right

2 (19m 4s):
now. Yesterday Sammy and dozens of tenants from his building went to court after their apartment complex initiated eviction proceedings based on what he's heard from other tenants. Sammy said one of two things is likely to happen. He'll either get an extension to stay in his home for two more months or the court sides with the apartment complex and he gets evicted when I Face Time Sammy just before his hearing local unions were rallying in front of the court. Was

4 (19m 42s):
- Sammy. Can you hear me?

2 (19m 48s):
It's the big day. How are you

4 (19m 49s):
feeling? If that extension cord in the house, I don't know. I'm gonna start selling my clothes my stuff at home. I tried to keep it

2 (20m 1s):
positive. Sammy said that if he buys himself more time, it'll be used to work something out with the landlord or keep organizing with other tenants when I called him back after his hearing to get the final results. This is what he said.

4 (20m 16s):
Hello. You sound happy. Did you get good news? The Dad's doing what he called my name? He was smiling. It's a you saw before when I say, yes. I said have you say I give you a 60-day extension until September 16 at 1:30? So that 60-day is basically a give us a window half of more time to continue organized and productive cancellation the campaign.

2 (20m 41s):
What are you gonna do

4 (20m 42s):
now? I find out across the speed people will see that letter or hearings. So we're trying to focus on the governor have a bility to stop the eviction and Virginia. So we're going to focus a lot of good and a

2 (20m 56s):
governor. Sammy said the first thing he's going to do when he gets home is tell his wife. They're good news after that. He's going straight back to

1 (21m 4s):
organizing.

2 (21m 15s):
Halima shot she's a

4 (21m 17s):
reporter and a producer here today explained. We reached out to Senate Republicans on the

2 (21m 21s):
banking Housing and Urban Affairs committee to ask if they'd support rent relief, but they didn't respond in time for

1 (21m 28s):
publishing.

2 (21m 47s):
Just a reminder before we go for the day now that you're done with today explained and you might be looking for something to do peacock.

4 (21m 53s):
Has that brand new exclusive original series Brave New World based on the book, you know, and love from your youth. It's got pretty faces. You'll recognize from solo from Downton Abbey from Game of Thrones and a bunch of brand new pretty faces. You won't even recognize all episodes of Brave New World are available now on peacock the new streaming service from NBC Universal sign. A up at peacock tv.com to stream now.