1 (0s):
Support for the show comes from the TMI project which gives under representative communities of platform to share the too much information stories that are often overlooked by the mainstream media in 2017. TMI project responded to the outcry for racial Justice with a powerful platform called black stories matter black stories matter supports and amplifies black voices through true storytelling workshops live performances Community conversations, and now a podcast new episodes of the TMI. Eject podcast black stories matter are on Wednesdays subscribe, wherever you listen, did you know that simply being online releases carbon the internet likes so many parts of modern society runs on electricity.

1 (44s):
And today the electric grid Creed's carbon emissions. Google is trying to stop those emissions from your online activity before they start the company aims to run on 24/7 carbon-free energy by 2030 everywhere. They operate by moving. Yard, carbon-based sources of energy and focusing on solar wind and other Clean Energy Technologies. Google is working to create a model for how tech companies and industries at large can reduce emissions and make a real impact on climate change learn more about Google's most ambitious decade yet at GD Coast carbon free.

1 (1m 21s):
Just about anywhere you look on our planet people are worried about covid-19. But everyone on the Internet is talking about SARS Beyonce Biden John boyega. This weekend's musical guest on Saturday Night Live had her entire band outfitted and t-shirts that featured the hashtag and SARS as you may well know it's got nothing to do with a respiratory disease and everything to do with a protest in Nigeria. So we got in touch with Alexis a quadri ROM to explain he's the bureau chief for Reuters in Lagos Alexis.

1 (2m 7s):
What is

3 (2m 7s):
source?

1 (2m 11s):
So saws was an Elite Police Unit in Nigeria actually stands for special anti robbery Squad the squad was set up in 1992 with the I aim to fight armed robbery. The idea was that was there to tackle violent crime things like armed robberies kidnappings. I kind of thing over the years. They've been cycles of alleged human rights abuses by these officers because these guys are in plain clothes and their remit is to go out and basically just really crack down on violent crime, but people say their abuse that power and accuse them of actually doing all kinds of things. It's critics say saws is now engaged in harassment.

1 (2m 51s):
And violence and even killing and all of it with impunity victims have been subjected to mock execution burning with cigarettes near asphyxiation using plastic bags and sexual violence. You look like you're making a lot of money. They'll stop you the harass you they'll go through your phone. They search for messages from from your bank for example, so they could see your bank account balance and when they do that they drive you to an ATM that you to withdraw money and and you know before before they let you go if they can't get money off you they lock you up over the years police repeatedly denied these

3 (3m 28s):
allegations.

1 (3m 33s):
So what sparked this protest specifically so these protests were specifically sparked by the killing of a young man in the southern state of Nigeria called Delta State video went viral of a man. Her it allegedly been killed by sales offices and then they allegedly drove away in his car and people video this and the video went viral and people up in arms about it. And they said that this was the latest example of the human rights abuses of the back of that people started using the hashtag ensel's to share their own experiences of what they said were examples of kidnappings extrajudicial killings beatings.

1 (4m 16s):
So these videos just started flooding Nigerian Twitter and Instagram in one of The reaction look like I mean initially the reaction was outrage on social media, but then it really kind of entered the streets. When a number of Legos based influences red massive followings on Instagram and on Twitter, they got involved and they said that really this needs to be Amplified myself and another artist named one time. We have shared on our Twitter and Instagram pages that we were going to do a walk just a March a peaceful protest against all forms of police brutality. Let's see your forms of police misconduct in general.

1 (4m 56s):
And we did that with the hashtag and size. And then also Civil Society groups in Lagos and the capital Abuja decided to hold Nationwide protests from the 8th through October. So this is maybe less than a week after those video went viral and stop now every single day there were protests. On the 8th of October and after that the government started to sit up and take notice. Yeah, tell me more about how the government responded they basically said that they would just give them everything this Vision to robbery Squad of the Nigeria police.

1 (5m 40s):
Otherwise known as science is hereby dissolved across all formations. They shut down south three days after the protests began. They said that they would hold judicial panels and inquiries and they said look this can all be done. Down however, maybe two days after stars were shut down and you unit was set up called SWAT and this unit basically was meant to do the same thing again is meant to be a specialist high-grade crime fighting unit with the same Powers as stars. And so the protesters said that they were not going to stop their demonstrations because ultimately they didn't believe that any meaningful change was going to happen.

1 (6m 23s):
They said this was purely rebranding exercise. And they have precedence 2.2 on that because this has happened before. So for example, there was a senate investigation in 2017 and the vice president actually said do you know how to be disbanded the police have disbanded or overhauled SARS or about three times in the last five years? Wow. So protesters are skeptical about there being any meaningful change. So the protests continue so then the protesters continued they go out and daily marches. Every single day and then over time the protest started to become infiltrated attacked by armed groups.

1 (7m 6s):
These were kind of street thugs in Lagos. We call them area boys and these guys would turn up and they're armed with things like machetes or even just sticks and they would try to disrupt the protests now just for context there is a history in Nigerian politics of Armed street gangs to disrupt now. There's nothing to say that that actually is the case here in might be that they're just violent factions and these are things that we've put torso at ease and they've denied any involvement but for whatever reason there were attacks and so the protest kept on going and what the protesters did was they crowdfunded to fund their protests and the money that they crowdfunded was used for things like will pay In for free food for people but I'm also paying for security for medical bills for anyone that was injured and also for legal bills for anybody who was arrested and then the protests kept on going until the 20th of

3 (8m 9s):
October.

1 (8m 14s):
It should be one upgrade. Anyway, give something and a fucking piece of protest at the main campaign site in an upmarket area Legos called. There was a shooting star in Lagos the commercial Capital the governor on the 20th said there will be a curfew and the curfew comes into effect for four in the afternoon. And so the up people all day at the main campaign site the moment the main protest site in Lagos, and they said that basically they're going to stay put that evening at around 6:45 coming up to 7 p.m.

1 (8m 56s):
Multiple Witnesses say that the lights went out at this campaign sign to paint a picture. We're talking about a place where you've got probably at least a thousand people who congregated there's a stage with people giving speeches calling response. You've got music and the Lights Went Out Multiple Witnesses say that they saw soldiers advancing and they had guns and they started shooting down sit down sit down. I'm spoke to multiple people who were there who said that they saw people dropping and that people died with are hunkering down while hundreds of bullets were shot the light on this side where Switched Off there was Panic there was chaos people.

1 (9m 41s):
They are praying other's work. I think we are ready to die. And again there were people who were injured that were carried to the site for my cameraman and me we're laying down. Okay how long the gunfire went on for and then the soldiers retreated they

3 (9m 58s):
left?

1 (10m 2s):
Now I must say that the Nigerian Army said that they were not there. They said that this is faking he's so at this point that is what they say Amnesty International say that 12 protesters were killed in two locations on that night in lucky at the toll gate where this main demonstration was being held and then in one other District of Legos as well. Since that horrifying scene a really really really turned into something completely different the initial protesters that we had who were very tightly focused. They went into hiding basically, they stopped going out on those daily protests and they're actually very scared.

1 (10m 46s):
After that, there was just a massive massive explosion of Street violence in different parts of the country particularly in Lagos the east of the city in Leckie armed men chased away police and several police stations were burned to the ground. Damn you boys the street gangs started building barricades and blocking off major roads. They were charging people to get through. If you didn't pay them then they would hurl border like rocks and sticks. Our vehicles there were a couple of jailbreaks in different parts of the country. Like they were two in a city called benigne in the south of the country. There's a Jailbreak in Lagos as well.

1 (11m 27s):
And there was this term will aniki basically and I must say these were not protesters. These were not the type of protesters who were out looking for police reform. These are people who for the most part are poor and angry they were setting fire to buildings and just generally venting their anger and frustration half of people who are aged between 15 and 34 are either unemployed or what they call underemployed. I either don't have enough work. So there are a lot of people who are struggling to make ends meet an angry and frustrated and this was basically just a Tinderbox. I mean, I spoke to a security analyst about this and he said it was just it was The Perfect Storm and had been brewing for a while.

1 (12m 13s):
Where does this leave you this week? What's going to happen next? It's really hard to tell what's gonna happen next mean bizarrely Lego seems much calmer the he's the curfew so that the kofi's only in place at night and during the day you have people going out on the streets again, basically reclaiming the city one thing is the original protesters who were calling for the police reform. Those people are they've agreed that they're going to keep online. They say that you know, they don't want anyone else to get hurt and they feel that essentially Lee their protest was hijacked by criminal elements and to actually amplify their message and have a voice they need to do it online.

1 (13m 1s):
And help me understand how nsrs has gotten so much attention International, you know celebrities like Beyonce and Rihanna and as you may have seen her performed on Saturday Night Live this weekend with her entire band wearing ncr's t-shirts. A lot of people who aren't usually talking about Nigerian politics all of a sudden our I mean, I think it's very much of the Zeitgeist. I mean the thing, you know, People can relate because we got black lives matter in the US and you've got issues over there with police brutality and Joe even in the UK, for example, people have been protesting about black lives matter. So people can see that this is this is a global issue that kind of role of law enforcement and and human rights, and there's also bear in mind a very large kind of West African diaspora in the US and in the UK in particular, but Above all it's just something that I think on a human level everyone can relate to because people want to trust law enforcement officers and that's like, you know, that's the universal.

1 (14m 6s):
So I think that's

3 (14m 7s):
why

1 (14m 15s):
Alexis is quadri ROM is the Nigeria bureau chief for Reuters. He spoke to us this morning from Lagos more after a quick break on today explained. Support for the show today comes from caviar, which is to say that support for the Chevrolet comes from food which is to say you're going to love this ad. Whatever is kind of food. You're in the mood for pizza Sushi dim sum Falafel. It's all available on the caviar app was delivery from your favorite local restaurant.

1 (14m 59s):
So download the caviar app for yourself. Stay safe inside get the tasty food. You actually want your favorite restaurants the ones you've been dreaming about since this all started this quarantine pandemic work from home situation. You'll find it all on caviar. Go check it out and just for our listeners caviar is offering 20% off your first order. Just enter the promo code today at checkout. Remember that's 20% off your first order with the promo code today download that caviar app and use that offer code today for 20% off your first order of food.

1 (15m 40s):
This is Advertiser content. Renewable energy NetZero carbon neutral these phrases are thrown around a lot with so many buzzwords. It's hard to figure out what's hype and what might create real impact and right now we need real impact scientists say we must cut carbon emissions by 50% over the next decade to mitigate the worst impacts of climate change and tech companies have a big role to play. Google has been carbon neutral since 2007, but Say it isn't enough to confront the challenge of climate change being carbon neutral

3 (16m 18s):
means that you know, you're still emitting carbon into the atmosphere from your operations. You're just going out and you're buying offsets to cover that. You're not changing the way you actually

1 (16m 28s):
operate Michael Terrell is the director of operations and head of energy Market strategy at Google. His team is responsible for helping Google reach its most ambitious sustainability goal yet. We feel like we've made

3 (16m 39s):
enough progress on clean electricity and clean electricity. Geez that we can actually run 24/7 carbon-free all the time by 2030. We're also looking at new developing Technologies like green hydrogen or carbon capture and storage or long-duration storage. We feel like we're making a lot of good progress on these Technologies and that over the next ten years will see them getting to a greater scale the time for interim steps. We feel

1 (17m 7s):
is apps. This is an urgent problem. We need to solve for as soon as possible learn more about Google's most ambitious decade yet at KO / carbon-free Okay, Alexis just drew a line from George Floyd and the black lives matter protest and stars, which is helpful in understanding how this has become such a big deal online throughout the world. But we wanted to know more about how and SARS is being received in Nigeria amaka unga you specialize in sub-Saharan Africa at the Eurasia group.

1 (17m 47s):
What do we need to know about Nigeria to better understand this protest movement? So the self text here that a lot of people Not talking about is that for the past I would say five ten years or so this particular police unit size had been going after I'm profiling what they saw as Internet fraudsters. Probably you've gotten those emails from Nigeria right like the internet scams. Yeah, actually I have so the Stars unit really cut its teeth going after those guys and their profile them as young men with me. Laptops and phones sometimes it a nice car, but they're dressed casually so they don't fit the profile of like people who have money in Nigeria and this is particularly in the South.

1 (18m 35s):
This is a southern phenomenon right now over the past. I was just over the past 10 years and I just Tech sector has grown tripled from like five percent of GDP to 15% of GDP. So now you have a lot more people engaged in Tech like legal Tech, right? There's a huge Tech echo system and lots and lots. Of people I carrying cell phones and laptops and fit this profile. So all of a sudden something that was impacting like a much narrower section of the population. Is it Paxton lots of middle-class Nigerians getting harassed and that really helped kind of bring this into the public Consciousness. And of course A lot of these tech people have strong social media presence have strong connections with the International Community Learning from BLM since definitely a factor, right?

1 (19m 25s):
Because I wasn't motivation of what happened that kind of Drew people to say, you know, what enough is enough. Please take a stand as time the fact that there were a lot more people working from home made a difference. Right? So all these different things made it such that this time around it got on the streets in a big way and once you got on the streets, there are lots of other people with other Grievances and have brought frustration that would join in there was always abuses right? That's that's the thing but The more people you had engaged in the actual legal Tech sector the more opportunities there were two profile and to harass our people who were innocent and you mentioned that these protests are mostly happening in the South.

1 (20m 14s):
Why is that why is this sort of limited to a specific part of the country? So the intimate frost a phenomenon is really a sudden phenomena, right? The nucleus is made us. There an end a lot of the southwestern States that's where you have a lot of educated young men who initially was kind of Engagement and you know internet fraud in the north you have a much smaller middle class is a lot more poverty. And so while you have police brutality in the north, the Dynamics are very different because there's so much more insecurity in the north. Not a lot of not a big middle class to kind of stand up make a stand in this way and so much more insecure than its.

1 (20m 55s):
Harder to convince people that the priority should be disbanded in police unit when you have kidnapping and you know, this police units is trying to you know, in their view bring back some security. So as is seen as a useful addition useful public good rather than the opposite interesting. So where does that leave the country is half the country saying abolish this law enforcement unit while the other half is saying, you know, this is essential to our lives. Yes, and no, right? So it's a little bit more complicated and stars is a movement that has garnered Nationwide support. Okay, there wasn't as many people in the streets in the north for the reasons that we discussed that we talked about.

1 (21m 40s):
But at the same time there is a shared consciousness of the importance of the problem of police brutality across the country the hesitation on the concern was maybe that some elements in the North Clearly the politicians right? We're concerned that this was something that was being stoked by maybe the internet Frost does in the South, you know, maybe do politicians in the South so undermined in Northern presidents regime buhari. Hmm. So that's why politically the country hasn't been United just in terms of the political leaders in and how they're viewed the protests, right?

1 (22m 23s):
So there's definitely the politics in the north make it such that there's more there's a little bit more suspicions of what's really going on. Even though there is a shared Consciousness about the problem of police brutality. Is that going to discredit the end Stars movement the fact that politicians in the north might be able to say like, oh that's just more fraudsters. What's really important is where we go from here. There's been a sense by some people that they are elements of the opposition and other elements that are trying to hijack. At least from the perception of government right that I use in this to advance their, you know, anti buhari said of sentiments that is not the intention of the movements the people who are kind of instigating and you know where the leaders intended it squarely to address on police brutality and other issues to some extent.

1 (23m 19s):
I think what's important really is where they go from here where we go from here how the movement is is organized as there's a lot of talk now about moving this on, you know, you know organizing around issues that will impact the next election, you know, social justice issues economic justice issues. So I think that the test is really now right how does this generation kind of evolved use this to drive their political engagement and drive the issues that will matter for the next election. I didn't really know this until I Was preparing for this interview, but Nigeria is a country with an exceptional number of young people. I'm told more than 60% of Nigerians are under the age of 25.

1 (24m 4s):
Is that truth? And yeah, that is true that sounds dramatically different from like what we've seen in the United States with protests happening here where it's really United lots of different age demographics, but in Nigeria, I imagine that means that the end Stars movement is mostly a movement of younger Nigerians. Is that true? Absolutely. It has been a movement of young Nigerians which is extremely encouraging right. It's basically being a movement of Nigerians under age 35 and that I would say is at least 70 percent of the population if not 75, right? So it's the majority in oh, it's a huge huge constituent block for Nigeria.

1 (24m 46s):
The biggest I would say take away is that this is the first time this generation the future of Nigeria is Lee taking a stand and engaging in an organized passionate way in politics and if you look at the data, you know, even though use are about 50 over 50 percent of registered voters, they tend to vote in less numbers like is the case globally, right? But the tents avoid unless numbers. It's more impactful than Nigeria just given how big a proportion of the population they are. But I do think that this will drive engagement from that younger generation, which will then impact the shape of politics movies.

3 (25m 25s):
Orange

1 (25m 33s):
I wonder you know did all this International attention did it help there are a lot of people within the government that are very suspicious because it's people see the lot of people within government. I see this as a as an opposition strategy, but on the other side is also brought a lot of attention that has forced people to pay attention whether they like it or not, right? It's forced Nigerian politicians to pay. Tension is trending globally for days on end. I would say its overall in that positive because bringing attention to the issue encouraging the youth by feeling giving them a sense of power of political power.

1 (26m 13s):
I think it's all in the end and that

3 (26m 15s):
positive.

1 (26m 20s):
The market thank you for your time. I really appreciate it. Same here. Thank

3 (26m 24s):
you.

1 (26m 30s):
Amaka. Anka is the head of all things Africa at the Eurasia group. I'm Sean Rama's Forum today

3 (26m 37s):
explained.

1 (26m 50s):
This is Sam donecker. I'm an assistant managing editor at the New York Times. Our Newsroom has been empty since March, but we've been busier than ever before the pandemic has changed how we work, but it hasn't changed what we do. This is why we became journalists to bring to light real verified information when the stakes couldn't be higher. We can't do this work without our subscribers. If you'd like to subscribe, please go to nytimes.com / subscribe and thanks. Xerox wants to help you make now work because right now there are a lot of things getting in the way of that work pivot to future-ready solutions that will help your business Thrive and take on this new normal at Xerox.com box Xerox automates and digitizes your system.

1 (27m 36s):
So being remote doesn't slow down your flow and when you need to offer personalized care to a customer Xerox helps you do so with tech solutions that feel human learn more about how to transform your business for these Changing Times at Xerox Dom. calm box