0 (1s):
Hello, Vox listeners. My name is Erin Lamor and I'm one of the hosts of the long form podcast. The newest addition to Vox and the Vox media podcast network. We've been doing the show for over nine years. We've gotten to talk to people like George Saunders, Terry Gross, Tallahassee coats, and really tried to explore what it means to be a writer or a journalist today in 2021. We're also expanding to feature documentarians, podcasters, whoever we find interesting. So you can catch up on long form now at vox.com/long form or in the podcast app of your choice.

0 (45s):
Previously on today Explained

1 (51s):
Today, February 12th, 2021, Justin Timberlake, publicly apologized to Brittany Spears. The apology has a lot less to do with their bygone romance and much more to do with the reckoning over how this country treats its famous young women.

2 (1m 5s):
So a conservatorship is a legal solution for what happens if you're an adult, but you can't make decisions for your life in your best interests. Brittany went under conservatorship in 2008.

1 (1m 19s):
Do we have any sense of like how she feels about all of this maybe positive attention she's getting now?

2 (1m 26s):
It's not something that she talks about in public much, possibly not something she's necessarily allowed to talk about in public much. She is inaccessible and the unknowable

1 (1m 38s):
Today, Britney speaks

3 (1m 49s):
Constance grainy. You're a senior reporter here at box. We spoke to you about Brittany Spears back in February and so much has happened since then with Brittany Spears. What is going on constantly? Yeah,

2 (1m 60s):
Man. So back in February, we spoke right after the release of framing, Brittany Spears, the documentary from the New York times and Hulu that really started this big cultural conversation about Brittany

4 (2m 12s):
Was so serious. And so,

2 (2m 15s):
And how we treated women in the all people

4 (2m 17s):
Became fascinated with us, her sort of unraveling.

2 (2m 19s):
Then also whether conservatorships are okay, anytime

4 (2m 22s):
There's that amount of money to be made, you have to question the motives of everyone close.

2 (2m 28s):
And since then, there's just been this constant outpouring of attention

5 (2m 33s):
Knows what Britney Spears wants. And it has got greed and the Liberty that should be offered to every single American FreeBritney

3 (2m 43s):
It's made allies out of people like representative Matt gates and Senator Elizabeth. Yeah, it's

2 (2m 49s):
The, it's the thing that's going to bring our divided country together is FreeBritney man.

3 (2m 55s):
And how has this story progressed from there?

2 (2m 57s):
So there've been two major pieces of journalism about the Britney Spears conservatorship that have come out over the past few weeks. First of all, there was an expo and the New York times, which revealed some slightly disturbing things about how this conservatorship has gone down. We've always known that Brittany's finances were heavily scrutinized and that anything she bought was subject to review, but the New York times made it clear that she's not actually allowed to make a lot of purchases that she would like to make. There was a bit where she just wanted to refurnish her kitchen cabinets and was not allowed to do so because her father said she'd spent too much money.

2 (3m 37s):
The times report also most, I think pressingly made an argument that Jamie Spears, Brittany has father in charge of the conservatorship that he has not taken seriously be incredible responsibility. He has been given by taking control of his daughter's life. Jamie Spears has been to rehab for alcoholism and the time's reported that Brittany Spears has had concerns that he has relapsed and that she reported those to the court and asked that he be asked to take random alcohol tests and that the judge told her that she had no right to ask for something like that.

2 (4m 19s):
That is information we did not have before. One of the big caveats that we always used to have when we talked about this conservatorship was, you know, maybe Brittany likes it. Maybe it's helpful for her. Maybe she feels safer that way, but the times report made it very clear that she has been trying to get out of this situation of, for a really, really long time.

3 (4m 38s):
And the next big moment in this story, as it progresses, since we last spoke about it is when Brittany herself finally speaks

2 (4m 52s):
On June 23rd, Brittany Spears spoke before the court in an open testimony.

6 (4m 59s):
I will be honest with you. I haven't been back to court in a long time because I don't think I was heard on any level. When I came to court the last

2 (5m 6s):
Time, it was the first time that we have heard Brittany speak about the conservatorship on the record since 2008,

6 (5m 14s):
My dad and anyone involved in this conservatorship and my management who played a Hugh Rojan punishing at me. But when I said no, ma'am, they should be in

2 (5m 21s):
Jail. Her access to the public has been very, very tightly curtailed. She has not been able to make her feelings about the conservatorship known until now. And what she said was that she wants it to end and she has not been happy for a really long time. She said, I'm not happy.

6 (5m 39s):
I can't sleep. I'm so angry. It's insane. <inaudible>

2 (5m 46s):
She says that she thinks that her family should be in jail for what they had done to her. And maybe most disturbingly. She said that she has not been able to control her body while she has been under this conservative. Yeah.

6 (6m 1s):
I have a ID and side of myself right now, so I don't get pregnant. I wanted to take the ID out so I could start trying to have another baby, but this so-called team won't let me go to the doctor to take it out because they, they don't want me to have children, any more children. And

2 (6m 19s):
Also that she was put on lithium against her will and involuntarily committed as what she interpreted as a punishment for not doing a specific dance move in rehearsals that her management really wanted her to do. She's sort of painting a picture that almost feels like a Gothic novel, right? She's this figure who has lost all control over herself and her body just controlled by her father when she's a multimillionaire platinum recording artist, I wish I could

6 (6m 55s):
Stay with you on the phone forever because when I get off the phone with you, all of a sudden, all of I hear, I hear all these nos. No, no, no. And then all of a sudden I get, I feel ganged up on and I feel bullied and I feel left out and alone and I'm tired of feeling alone.

3 (7m 19s):
And this has such a, the moment because the narrative for these, you know, 13 years of her conservatorship is that we never hear from Brittany herself. We don't know how Brittany actually feels Brittany's comments on this. Conservatorship has been sort of hard to parse out at times. And here it's just this unfiltered raw monologue about her experience.

2 (7m 42s):
Yeah. Yeah. It's really, I think a big game changer. I've been reporting on this case for a little while and anytime I talked about it, I had to say, you know, we don't really know what's going on here. The only person who does know is Brittany and, and she's not talking, but now she very much is. And she's making herself so clear. And that means that the way that we have to talk about this case just has to change

3 (8m 7s):
What happens after she speaks in court.

2 (8m 9s):
So shortly after Brittany speaks in court, we get the second of these two big journalistic expos days. This one is from the new Yorker. It's reported out by Ronan Farrow and JIA Tolentino. And what this one does is really reveal some of the links that her father has gone to as her conservator in slightly disturbing ways. According to this report, Jamie Spears began a habit of referring to himself as Brittany Spears. When people questioned his decision-making and the conservatorship, he would go, I am Brittany Spears. It also says that in the early days of the conservatorship, he would repeat it, the call, Brittany a whore and tell her she was a terrible mother and tell her that she needed to lose weight, to get back into shape, to make her come back.

5 (9m 5s):
One thing we can all agree on is the Jamie Spears.

2 (9m 9s):
The new Yorker article also reveals some of the circumstances under which Brittany first entered the conservatorship. It's been theorized for a while. Now that she was struggling with postpartum depression in 2007, when she had her sort of big public spiral. And this article mostly supports that theory. It also reveals that all of the big major Brittany iconic breakdown moments that people remember like shaving her head or beating the paparazzi's car with an umbrella were proceeded by her trying to go to her ex husband, Kevin Fedor Lane's house, just to see her kids and being denied access.

2 (9m 50s):
And the first time she was in voluntarily committed, we learned was because she didn't want to give her kids back after a custody visit. And she just took one of them into a bathroom and started crying and saying she wasn't going to come out. Apparently federal liens lawyer called the police. And they came with like a spot team and strapped her down to a group. She

5 (10m 11s):
Loves her age. She went through a divorce. She has two fucking kids. Her husband turned out to be a user, a cheater, and now she's going through a custody battle. All you people get ballet readers and making money off of her shit.

3 (10m 31s):
She was back in court this week on Wednesday. What happened on Wednesday?

2 (10m 37s):
So on Wednesday, we got some big movement in the Brittany Spears case. So Brittany Spears for the entirety of the conservatorship has not been able to choose her own representation. She has a court appointed lawyer who she has been obliged to pay a salary to under the terms of her conservatorship, which means conflict of interest wise. There's just very little incentive for him to try to end this. He gets a salary either way, but she said during her testimony that she wanted to choose her own lawyer. And on Wednesday's hearing, the judge has decided that she has allowed to do so did

8 (11m 14s):
Allow Britney Spears to be represented by an attorney of her choice. And it has prominent celebrity attorney, Matthew Rosengarden question

1 (11m 22s):
Remains. Why is he involved? He should step down voluntarily as that is the best interest of Brittany Spears.

2 (11m 32s):
He's worked with a lot of major figures in entertainment, including Sean Penn and Steven Spielberg. And this is a major step forward for Brittany. It means that she's now working with someone who has an incentive to end this conservatorship and really make some changes for her. Also,

8 (11m 51s):
Spears was not scheduled to speak in court today, but she did on the phone. She said, I am here to get rid of my dad. She then gave a 10 minute testimony where she cried and she said, she wants her father removed from her conservatorship and charges him with conservator abuse. You made

3 (12m 6s):
A joke, I think at the top of the show about this being the issue that will finally unite this country, but you're not totally joking. Why is it that, you know, representative Matt gates and Senator Elizabeth Warren can unite on this particular issue? What is it about Brittany Spears is conservatorship that the whole world finds compelling?

2 (12m 33s):
I think on the one hand, you know, there's the pretty simple explanation for that, which is, this is a kind of classic small government case, right? That a small C conservatives can get behind. And it's also a disability rights case that liberals can get behind. But I think there's another reason that everyone is so invested in Brittany spirits and whether the question of whether she is in control of herself. And that's because that has always been the question about Brittany Spears. When she first became famous, the sort of the way that people would dismiss her would be to say, oh, you know, she's a product of her producers.

2 (13m 17s):
She doesn't really know what she's doing and the way that people sort of exalted her. The thing that a lot of people liked about her was this idea that maybe she didn't know what she was doing. That's kind of at the center of the whole sexy baby voice she does. And the, the sexy school girl thing, it's this fantasy that she's incredibly hot, that she doesn't know it. And thus her sexuality is unthreatening. And the question of whether she's doing that on purpose and whether she knows what she's doing has kind of been in the middle of every big Britney Spears profile or think piece or interview or the past, basically 30 years now, who is Brittany Spears.

2 (14m 2s):
And she in control of herself. That's the big question we've had for her.

3 (14m 11s):
And then along the way, she has become the face of conservatorship.

2 (14m 24s):
Yeah. Yeah. Most of the conservatorship reformat advocates I've spoken to has said that they think of the Brittany Spears case as a kind of ambassador case to get the rest of the country, more aware of this very bizarre legal situation and to have the rest of us think about whether conservatorships are effective and whether they need to be reformed.

9 (15m 19s):
This episode is sponsored by GE true wireless headphones.

10 (15m 24s):
I'll call you back later. Okay. About to go for a run. Ooh, here's what I love about my JBL. True wireless headphones. I can go from a call with my mom to music that powers my workout. It's all with these stylish earbuds that come in a range of colors and fits I'll go and do a few miles today. Good thing. These JBL earbuds are waterproof. I'm going to sweat after a quick cotton stop. Hm I'll have an iced coffee to go, please. Oh, OK. No run just as well, because I definitely rely on the convenience of these headphones at, Ooh, I am almost late to this meeting.

10 (16m 6s):
Hey, everyone has just ignore my dog over here. These lovely little wireless earbuds are such a lifesaver with so many options to choose from. They're perfect for whatever your lifestyle needs and stylish to find the freedom to do you with JBL, true wireless headphones, to learn more, check out jbl.com/tws. That's J B l.com/tws

3 (16m 31s):
Support from the show really comes from credit karma. For a lot of us, the financial world can be like a tangled, confusing mess of unintelligible terms and fine print. And so it's easy to think about more interesting things like, I don't know, breath, mints or shoelaces or co-ax cable, but occasionally you got to pay attention to all that financial mumbo jumbo and credit karma wants to help. They use some game-changing technology to show you tailored offers for credit cards and personal loans that you're more likely to be approved for. I think that's the sort of essential part of this, whether you're trying to rack up a ton of travel rewards points.

3 (17m 12s):
I know some of us are or maximize the cash back. You earn on every purchase or consolidate some lingering debt credit karma can round up a bunch of offers that are right up your alley. If you want to start applying with more confidence, go to credit karma.com/podcast, to learn more and find offers tailored just for you that has credit karma.com/podcast, or take a look at your offers on the credit karma app. There is an app apply with confidence today, go to credit karma.com/podcast or the credit karma app.

2 (17m 49s):
My name is Nina Cohn and I'm a law professor at Syracuse university and in distinguished scholar, elder law at Yale law school. Okay. Which means,

3 (17m 59s):
You know, a lot about conservatorships. I do. So Nina, a question I have to ask you then is what's your favorite Britney Spears?

2 (18m 7s):
Oh gosh. Maybe I'm not that innocent.

3 (18m 24s):
Great. How has your life changed now that Brittany Spears has become the face of conservatorships in America,

2 (18m 34s):
You know, myself and other advocates for older adults and people with disabilities have been concerned about this issue for decades, but Brittany Spears case has really brought a level of attention to it we've never seen before. And I'm really hoping that that could be the spar for some meaningful reform

3 (18m 53s):
And help us understand because Brittany Spears is obviously the most high profile subject of a conservatorship maybe in the world, but she's far from the only one, right? So how many people in the United States are in this kind of legal relationship?

2 (19m 9s):
So unfortunately the U S has a truly woeful lack of data about who is subject to guardianship or conservatorship and why, but estimates suggest that somewhere in the neighborhood of one and a half million adults are under guardianship or conservatorship. Okay.

3 (19m 26s):
Okay. And this isn't a federal system, right? Which has probably part of the reason we don't have, you know, really accurate data. Every state has their own type of conservatorship law and their own system,

2 (19m 38s):
Correct. This has state law and state level data. So every state has a statute and some of them are quite outdated governing. When a court may appoint somebody to make decisions for somebody who the court has found, can't make decisions for themselves.

3 (19m 54s):
And we have reason to believe from reporting from the new Yorker and the New York times and testimony from Brittany Spears, herself, that her situation is untenable. It's maybe even abusive that she doesn't have freedom over decisions on her own body. Things like this, a lot of people are, are seeing this conservatorship system, especially in California and thinking there's something terribly wrong here, but give us an idea how this looks when it's working well.

2 (20m 24s):
So keep in mind, the guardianship and conservatorship should always be a last resort because it can strip an individual of the right to make even the most basic intimate decisions for themselves. But there's times when it is the best option, because you have an individual who's experiencing harm or is at substantial risk of some very real harm because they can't make decisions for themselves. And there is no less restrictive way to meet their needs. So maybe it'd be helpful for me to give an example or two I'd love one. Sure. So let's imagine we have an individual who has severe Alzheimer's disease, but that individual never appointed anyone to make decisions for them.

2 (21m 7s):
And now maybe they face eviction because they can't pay the rent and nobody has authority to do so, or they need to move because they're unsafe in their home, but nobody has the authority to consent to that, or they need healthcare decisions made. It may be the best option to appoint another person to make decisions for them. And a guardian or conservator has the advantage of being a fiduciary. So they owe a high level of loyalty, a high level of care. And they're also overseen by a court. The need can arise too. I should mention when somebody does do good planning or what seems like good planning at the outset.

2 (21m 51s):
So maybe they've appointed somebody to make healthcare decisions for them using a healthcare power of attorney. They have a power of attorney for finances in place, but something goes wrong. Maybe their agent died or maybe their agent has become their abuser and is exploiting them. So the need can also arise when somebody does all the planning that I typically recommend that they do as an elder law.

3 (22m 19s):
Now that we've talked about an example of how this can go, well, I want to return to how this can go poorly. And Brittany Spears, isn't the only cultural touchstone here. There's also like a Netflix movie about how badly this can go. Especially with regard to elderly, elderly folks.

2 (22m 34s):
Absolutely. A lot can go wrong. And Netflix is movie. I care a lot. Is this fictional horror story that somehow combines thriller and guardianship, which is not something you hear a lot.

7 (22m 45s):
Yeah. I'm not sure what this is.

11 (22m 48s):
If the court order man, a court order, but what's that got to do with me? That's your name? Correct? Jennifer Peterson. Your date of birth, your social security number and this address. Oh my goodness. Have I done something wrong? Oh no. Ma'am this is to help you. My

4 (23m 4s):
Name is Marla Grayson. I'm just somewhere and who cares? It's

2 (23m 9s):
Very much a work of fiction, but if you look at the tricks, the guardian plays in that movie. A number of them are really enabled by state law in many states. So one trick is that she petitions for guardianship without telling her elderly mark, let me

11 (23m 25s):
Tell you something. I never went to court. This is the first thing I've heard about the court can convene without the presence of the perspective ward. Wow, that's crazy state

2 (23m 36s):
Guardianship laws, permit courts to appoint emergency guardians without notice either to the individual alleged to need a guardian or to family, friends who might come to their defense in the movie, you see a Marla and I don't mean to give away too much here, but you see Marla place her victim in a nursing home and then immediately turn around and sell her house. Marla

4 (23m 58s):
Grayson. I believe she made it happen. She has your mother's guardian. She has full control of your mother's life and assets.

2 (24m 10s):
Well, in most states, such moves are considered routine and they don't require a specific court approval. And of course the biggest thing the evil protagonist has in going for her really in I care a lot is that the court ignores clear evidence of her wrongdoing.

4 (24m 30s):
She has a life to take care of her. And I just don't understand how the court can entrust my mother to this stranger, Ms. Greyson forced my mother enter the home when she made it very clear that she didn't want to go. It's a goddamn nightmare.

5 (24m 43s):
She has kidnapped my mother. Please start calm down. Marla Grayson has a well-respected professional guardian

2 (24m 50s):
And failure of courts to adequately monitor guardians is a longstanding and chronic problem. And it leaves those who the systems are designed to protect at very real.

3 (25m 4s):
And while it may be appears, now that all of the attention on, on freeing Brittany will result in her perhaps regaining control of her life. Do you think all of this added attention on conservatorships and guardianships might actually tangibly change these laws?

2 (25m 26s):
I'm cautiously optimistic. One reason the Spears case has the potential to really sparked some reform. Here is who Ms. Spheres is. She's a young, vibrant, talented woman. Who's clearly able to express her wishes and that's not our typical image of somebody subject to guardianship or conservatorship. We're typically thinking that these are people who are very old, who have a substantial cognitive disabilities. People who unfortunately are society has often treated as expendable.

2 (26m 7s):
So seeing this type of thing happened to miss spheres, somebody who should be in the prime of her life, I think really suggest to people how deeply problematic this system can be and the need to make sure that guardianship has truly used as a last resort and that people aren't stripped of legal rights unnecessarily