1 (1s):
About a month ago, a young woman named Masa Amini died in a hospital in Teron. The police reportedly arrested her for failing to sufficiently cover her hair. In the days that followed Iranians protested, young women burnt their hijabs, they cut their hair.

2 (18s):
This time I cut it with anger I needed to do something to take part in what my beautiful, brave people are doing.

1 (32s):
The government cracked down. Dozens of protestors are now reportedly dead, but the protests in Iran continue to grow a month later. These protests now represent a host of grievances with one through line, the end of the Islamic Republic on today explained. We're gonna figure out whether that's a real possibility here. This all started with NASA Amini

3 (1m 9s):
And she in fact had been wearing her job. Her crime was that it was too loose exposing some of her hair.

1 (1m 19s):
Fatima Shams is a UPenn professor who has been living in exile from Iran since 2009 and following these protests closely

3 (1m 28s):
So as Masa was being bundled into a police van with other female detainees to be transferred to the notorious moral security headquarter known as Rosaro Ling, she and her brother repeatedly told the police forces that they were strangers or the S as in in Persian and far from home without knowing their way around the city, but they're desperately was completely ignored. And they were told that she would be released after undergoing what they called reeducation.

1 (2m 5s):
It's important to note here that Iran essentially has an entire police force set up to patrol how men, but much more so women dress, they're commonly called the morality police. This is the police force that arrested NASA am

3 (2m 20s):
In the police van. They threw insults at NASA and she resisted their insults and their aggression. And as two women detainees told Massel's father later she was pushed out of her seat and her head was slammed against the van several times at the police station, as she was trying to convince the police that she was observing her job, she suddenly held her head with her hands and collapsed and she couldn't see properly. And later on blood triggered from her ears is it took about 30 minutes for the ambulance to arrive and another 90 minutes to get to hospital.

3 (3m 6s):
And by the time she reached the icu, she was already in a coma. And the hospital announced later on in the, in an Instagram post that since deleted that she was brain dead. On arrival, three days later she was dead. The police said that she died due to a heart attack. Later on, a neurosurgeon on the state TV said that she had a brain tumor since childhood and that was the reason for a stroke. But her family confirmed that she was perfectly healthy and she had no preexisting health condition.

3 (3m 48s):
Later on, leaked medical scans confirmed the cause, which was a school fracture and trauma as a result of several blows on the head. Masa died on September 16th and a disturbing picture of her tied to our ICU equipment soon went viral and shook the world. And for those Iranians in the United States who saw the video of George Floyd's crushing neck under the police's knee Minneapolis back in 2020, Master's death sort of resonated and resembled that moment and later on became Iran's George Floyd moment.

1 (4m 38s):
How does this become a George Floyd moment in Iran when there is no smoking gun? Like in the case of George Floyd, where you had this video that showed you exactly what happened? That's not the case here, right?

3 (4m 51s):
There wasn't an exact video, you're right. But there were other contributing factors that made this moment similar to the George Floyd moment in the United States. One was the disturbing picture of mass that went viral very, very quickly. She's lying on hospital bed and she's tied into ICU equipment. And then also there was a heavily edited CCTV camera footage that was released by the government and raised a lot of questions, especially following the sort of the false claims that was made on the state TV that she's having a stroke or she's having a heart attack.

3 (5m 38s):
So the more the government tried to cover up her deaths, I think the more a furious people became, the MA's body was transferred to, to her small hometown of ez, which is a mar marginal border city in Kurdish province of Iran. You know, protests sparked right in her funeral. And her humble background also contributed I think to this moment. She wasn't coming from a privileged, luxurious background and you know, she wasn't wearing luxurious clothing, you know, she just found a job in her hometown and she was very much entering her womanhood and had a full life in front of her that was abruptly and brutally cut short

6 (6m 32s):
Into harran, spontaneous outbursts of defiance young girls on the streets waving their hand, scarfs chanting death to the dictator. And the now familiar women life freedom slogan of the protest with cars honking their horns and support.

3 (6m 48s):
You see, you witness the change and the radical shift in the aspirations and imaginations of a population that live under a particular regime.

6 (6m 59s):
This is the gut-wrenching grief of a sister burying her brother shot and killed at a protest. Fatima could soft her hair and tosses it over his grave. For so many Iran, cutting off hair is an age old morning, right? But it's also become a poignant form of protest for those rising up for their rights.

3 (7m 22s):
Prior to this movement, we could see all sorts of grievances, all sorts of protests. But in neither of these protests, we see women coming out burning what has represented 44 years of oppression and bodily control. We always have women at the forefront of the social protests in the past four decades. But in neither of these movements we see them coming and putting themselves and their bodies at the center stage of the movement at the center stage of the protests.

1 (8m 3s):
What is the political symbolism of hijabs in Iran?

3 (8m 8s):
What happened after the revolution, I think makes hijab the political symbol. Since the rise of the nation is state in Iran, we see that the notion of modernity and the notion of modernization and advancement in the society is obsessively tied to the imagination and control of the woman's body. So in 1930s, Resha, he's the founder of the Path Levy Dynasty. He decides to implement this quite aggressive top down modernization project and as part of that project, he comes up with compulsory unveiling campaign where women who are veiled are being attacked in the streets and are being forced to take off their veil.

3 (9m 4s):
And then four decades later, you know, after the revolution, we have a compulsory prevailing campaign. So chador or the conservative dress code that was introduced after the revolution as the official ideal dress code for women, you know, was promoted during that period. And we have even some of the most progressive and liberal minded revolutionaries who also remained indifferent. When women took to the streets and said that we don't want to be wailed, they kind of turned their back on them and said, You know, a piece of cloth on your head is not that important, so why don't we focus on more important revolutionary aspirations at this point.

3 (9m 52s):
And I think that was a moment where hijab basically became the political emblem of the Islamic Republic. What we see today is not only, you know, this kind of nationwide rage is no longer only demanding the abolishing of the morality police. I think whoever claims that this movement is limited to that at this point is a little bit delusional and basically trying to be an apologist of the regime or trying to deny the real demands of the Iranian people.

1 (10m 41s):
Fatima Shams is a professor of Persian literature at the University of Pennsylvania. When we're back, we're gonna ask if these protests could be a revolution.

7 (10m 59s):
Fox Creative,

American Cancer Society (11m 0s):
This is advertiser content from the American Cancer Society. My name's Christine Toro. I'm a cancer survivor. My brother Jason was diagnosed with lymphoma when he was 15, so it kind of left a really, really big gap when he passed away. Even though he went through that, I never really thought about health that much. Like, yeah, I'm healthy, I'm gonna be fine. It started out as fevers every night and then it escalated to like being out of breath. My heart rate would get really fast. So at that point was like, Okay, I should get this checked out. They drew my blood and then the doctor came in and said, It's leukemia. I was like, that's, that's cancer, right? But that can't be possible because we already did that. I was 20 years old. Cancer can happen to anyone at any age. In 2022 it's estimated that more than 1.9 million new cancer cases will emerge in the American Cancer Society will be there. Advocating for health equity and affordable healthcare funding, breakthrough research that saves lives in providing essential day to day patient support. The people who work at ACS we're always super helpful, like finding resources. If I couldn't figure out my health insurance, like they were the best at figuring all that out, Donate fundraise, volunteer, visit cancer.org/get involved the American Cancer Society, Every cancer, every life

ClickUp (12m 31s):
Support for the show today comes from click up. What would you do if you had an extra day every week I would try and jump in some water, not like a public pool, which DC does well, but a naturally occurring body of water that isn't totally polluted. If anyone knows where the good ones of those are at in the DC area, let me know. Click up wants to get you that extra day by saving you all the time that you spend clicking between different platforms and apps and docs and spreadsheets so you know that they're saying might just be like a whole day every week that you spend wasting and, and they can save you that time by putting all your stuff into one place for you. And your team listeners can use the code explained to get 15% off click ups, massive unlimited plan for a year, meaning you can start saving time for under $5 a month. You can sign up today@clickup.com and use the code. Explained the offer ends soon

8 (13m 47s):
today. Explain Sean Rams firm. We've been watching these protests in Iran for a month, wondering one thing, is this a revolution? The truth is no one knows, but it's Sonam Vail's job to ponder this question at her think tank.

10 (14m 4s):
I'm the deputy head of Chatham House's Middle East and North Africa program

1 (14m 8s):
And she says these protests are at the very least different from anything that's come before.

10 (14m 14s):
Iran has seen regular waves of protests over the last 20 years. In 1999 there were student protests

11 (14m 22s):
Protest movement, which began as a result, both of a close down of an important newspaper, a restrictive press law that Parliament is about to pass, and then an attack on a small student demonstration. At Tara University dormitories

10 (14m 40s):
In 2009, there were very damaging protests against Iran's presidential election where people poured out on the streets spontaneously believing the results of the election were fraudulent.

12 (14m 53s):
Rioting is erupted in Iran tonight after President Maud was declared the winner of the hotly contested presidential race by a landslide

10 (15m 1s):
In 2017 and 2019 we saw protests against the economy and inflation and more working class frustration. We

13 (15m 11s):
Are seeing calls for the overthrow of Iran's supreme leader, Iya to Ali Haman.

10 (15m 17s):
And these protests that we've seen over the past couple weeks in Iran are bringing together various groups throughout the country from young people, women, the middle class ethnic groups to protest a whole series of issues.

1 (15m 35s):
What makes these protests distinct is that they're unifying more groups in more parts of the country than than any protest since the Iranian revolution in 1979. And to understand the aim of these protests, you have to go back to that revolution.

10 (15m 51s):
The Islamic Republic came to fruition after the 1979 Iranian Revolution where again, Iranians of all different classes, political orientations, mobilized against the path levy monarchy that had been ruling Iran for a number of decades.

14 (16m 11s):
The Shah Mohamed Red Battle rule, Iran from September, 1941 to February, 1979

10 (16m 18s):
And Iranians were deeply fed up by a political class that was distant and not reflective of popular will or demands. And through the revolution they successfully overthrew the monarchy. But the revolution was successful because it brought together a myriad of factional groups and one of the stronger leaders in the revolutionary process was cleric by the name of Aman

15 (16m 52s):
For the flight from Paris to Tiran, marked the end of 15 years in exile for the people of Iran. The arrival of his jet liner signaled the beginning of even more radical social and political changes than have already taken place inside the airport. Terminal Homan was greeted by scores of Muslim religious leaders and political

10 (17m 15s):
Allies and revolutions. To quote, a famous academic by the name of Crane Britain are born out of hope, but generally don't end very well for all of the factions involved. And those hoping for a democratic or secular Iran lost out to the clergy and more authoritarian elements that supported the revolution.

1 (17m 43s):
And one of the figures who emerged from that revolution is still in power today. And school girls in the street are tearing up pictures of him. Tell us about Iran's current supreme leader.

10 (17m 57s):
Ali Hame, Iran's supreme leader and he's been supreme leader since 1989 when Aya, who was the founding father of this Islamic system, died and hame was a revolutionary. He was not at the forefront of the revolution, but sort of a disciple of many of the clerical leaders including Hian. And he was selected to be supreme leader by a body in Iran known as the Assembly of experts.

1 (18m 33s):
And people today aren't just calling for him to leave office, they're calling for his death. Did Iran go from zero to a hundred real quick or has he always been relatively unpopular?

10 (18m 48s):
I think through these protests that I mentioned earlier, 1999, 2009, 20 17, 20 19, there has been mounting anger against Iran's political establishment with ho being at the top of the system. And in each of these protests through the crackdown and repression, people have become more emboldened and have begun to cross what we thought were red lines and begun to directly attack and criticize the leadership. So what used to be just quiet criticism of Howe has become very direct and calling for the downfall or death of Howe, sort of is taking a play on the same sort of rhetoric and language that the Asso Republic has used in order to generate support for their policies against the West.

10 (19m 54s):
And for many years in protests in Iran during the revolution and even in recent years, you would hear chance that would say Death to America, death to Israel, death to the Soviet Union for example. So this is sort of a play on that sort of rhetoric.

1 (20m 23s):
And how has Hae responded thus far?

10 (20m 26s):
Well Hae as a leader tries to be above the institutions and the individuals that are appointed or elected to the different branches of government in Iran. He tries to run the system in a consensus based sort of chairman like leadership position. And he came out a few days ago and made a a statement, gave a speech about the protest, trying to blame the protests and the public frustrations on the west and particularly the United States.

17 (21m 8s):
I openly state that the recent Rios and unrest in Iran are schemes designed by the us, the usurping fake Zionist regime, their mercenaries, and for some treasonous Iranians abroad who helped them, these riots have been planned. If the death of this young girl didn't happen, they would've found another protects to create chaos in the country and harm the country's security.

10 (21m 29s):
That's really part of the government playbook in every crackdown after protests, the government sees the not so hidden hand of the international community and very rarely takes responsibility for policy failures or their own action or inaction.

1 (21m 50s):
And we haven't mentioned yet that hame is in failing health as well. Does that affect the calculus of how he might respond to these protests?

10 (22m 1s):
Hame has been in failing health for a long time and this isn't new, but it speaks to the broader uncertainty about the coming political transition once he passes how is about 83 years old and while there is a constitutionally mandated process of how we expect succession in Iran to unfold because he's been in power for over three decades and because he has such a monopoly of of power in the country, there's anxiety and uncertainty that is definitely seeping into the political system and perhaps leading to very stagnant government response to these protests, but also more broadly to the economic challenges that people are facing.

10 (23m 9s):
We're just not seeing bold or accommodationist policy or leadership coming from the political class in Iran.

1 (23m 20s):
Does this feel like a perfect storm to you? You know, the failing health of the Ito plus Iranians calling for death to the dictator and the death of Ma Armeni, not to mention the deaths of protestors that have followed. Does this feel like a moment that has great potential for change in Iran?

10 (23m 39s):
Hearing you describe and lay out everything and all the challenges? Yes, it does sound like a perfect storm. There is a detached aging leadership. There is a deeply angry population in Iran, but there are a few elements that I think we should also consider. The asso Republic has never failed to use brute force to repress Iranians. And sometimes that enforcement is immediate and brutal and sometimes it's more progressive as I think it's playing out now.

10 (24m 27s):
But that brutality is very much underway and retaining the monopoly of force for a a state as strong as the asso republic has been an important tool in its playbook and its power box, if you will. At the same time, the government, through all of these years and protests and crackdowns, has been quite effective at weeding out the opposition, weeding out any leadership, trying to repress that leadership through detentions and arrests.

10 (25m 11s):
Many activists and potential leaders are in jail or in the diaspora. They have tried to fragment and break bonds between different social, economic and political groups in Iran and that leaves this movement leaderless. And I think without direct organization, those are two key and necessary features for these protests to translate into something more revolutionary area.

1 (25m 56s):
That was Sonam va. She's with Chatham House. Our show today was produced by Halima Shaw with help from Jillian Weinberger. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard. With help from Amanda Lou Ellen, Edited by Matthew Colette and engineered by a theme Shapiro. It's today explained.