1 (4s):
On Friday, Misa Rodriguez, a player on Spain's national footy team, posted a cartoon on Twitter. It's got a little girl with her foot on a ball looking up at her grandmother and she asks,

2 (16s):
Abuela,

1 (20s):
Grandma, tell me how we won the world Cup. We didn't just win the world. Cup little one, we won a lot more. She captioned the cartoon with vo, it's over. Spain's women's team defied all the odds and won, and they're pretty sure they're about to win again. That's coming up. On today explained

3 (1m 1s):
Haleema Sean passes to Hady. Mhi Hady passes to Noell King. She cuts, oh my, it's today. Explain

1 (1m 12s):
Sean Rames here with Gwendolyn Oxenham.

4 (1m 15s):
I'm a writer and producer and I made the audio docuseries called Hustle Rule, the untold stories of women's soccer.

1 (1m 22s):
And she used to play a little footy herself.

4 (1m 24s):
I did, yeah. I played professionally for a hot minute in Brazil for Santos, and I played for Duke and college, and I write for Sports Illustrated in E S P N freelancing.

1 (1m 36s):
We reached out to her to talk about Spain's women's team because they pulled off something incredible and seemed to be on the cusp of another big win.

4 (1m 44s):
It's worth keeping in mind that the men's side is just this fabled side where everyone has worshiped the Spanish style of play, but the women's side was always ignored. I mean there, there was very much the cultural mentality of, oh, you know, football is not for women. And it took decades to sort of undo that. And that entire time the national team was fighting for a change. Like, Hey, can we have some women's jerseys? And hey, what about a pro league? So it wasn't until 2021 that they got a full domestic pro league. Once they had that, the players suddenly realized what it meant to be treated like a professional. you know, the US team has a nutritionist and a psychologist and they play friendlies against good teams.

4 (2m 26s):
While Spain's team, they didn't get to play friendlies against quality teams and they didn't have the level of of resources. And there's just a long reputation of the Spanish Federation, like not listening to what the, what the players are asking for. Last September 15 players protested the national team environment, the management style of the head coach. And so they all signed an email and saying that until conditions within the national team improved, they did not wish to be called up. So other teams have done this France, for example, and the French Federation responded and they got a new coach.

4 (3m 7s):
Well, Spain's reaction was fine, you don't wanna play for the national team, like, we don't want you, we'll go get a new team. And so they basically brought in a B team who then proceeded to win almost all of the, their games, including beating the us. And you know, the federation was basically like, we don't want anyone back unless you apologize. So only three of those original 15 players were a part of this new world's Cup team. And so it's just crazy that many of the stars of Barcelona are not playing for the World Cup team. So you've got this new team that's aligned up most people, very different names combined with the old players, even though they were so talented and everyone could recognize they had this beautiful playing style.

4 (3m 56s):
You can't win a world Cup when there's so much controversy and drama and fighting between the federation and players who have to get to know each other. So I mean, most people didn't give Spain a chance of winning, but then they got on the field and people sort of quickly reevaluated, come on

3 (4m 13s):
The box in front, go spade leaves Carmona.

1 (4m 23s):
Tell me about the journey to the trophy stage team. How did this team do once they hit the pitch?

4 (4m 29s):
They were just a sight to behold. you know, they played Zambia and Costa Rica first, and neither of which are known to be powerhouses. But Zambia had just beaten Germany who is known as a powerhouse, and they beat them five nothing and just spectacular, beautiful goals,

5 (4m 45s):
Making it look easy, making it look easy do.

4 (4m 51s):
And then they played Japan, who was sort of the other team that all tournament people were talking about how beautifully they were playing. And Japan sort of, you know, took him to school.

3 (5m 1s):
Lord, it's Mina running for Japan all by herself right now. Might not need the, the top corner. Incredible from me to Lanka, incredible from Japan.

4 (5m 12s):
But I think it was a really uniting moment where the Spain team came together and found a way to sort of rise out of that defeat and they felt more connected. And you could just see that unity on the field and the joy, like, I don't wanna forget that element where Jenny Herso, after the semi-final, she said to one of the reporters like, you know, these are the moves I learned playing in my neighborhood, playing in my streets. Like they gave me joy back then and they give me joy now and I hope we can bring others joy and you could just feel the love

6 (5m 45s):
I

4 (5m 53s):
Before the final. They went into the game and they said to each other like, let's play like we're kids. It filled me with both awe and fear of like, oh my gosh, like how, how will we keep up with them?

3 (6m 5s):
Spain waiting for the final whistle instead the guard in the final,

4 (6m 11s):
My 10 year old son predicted them in his pool and he might've been like the only, only one, but it was because he had watched Spain play the u s A with me and you know, they could play beautifully and the fact that they could rise out of all of that adversity. And I, I think any female player can tell you, you, you just wanna play the game and you learn at how to shut everything else out. And I think the Spain team did that and cared about each other and, and you could see that.

1 (6m 48s):
So, so tell me how the focus goes from this historic accomplishment by a team of women to being on this guy Luis Rubles, who is the president of the Royal Spanish Football Federation.

4 (7m 2s):
You know, there's a lot of euphoria when when you win a world Cup, and I think we just saw sort of the culture of the federation at play and seeing that the demonstrations of affection took a lot of people aback. He

7 (7m 18s):
Grabbed his own crotch and started doing a sort of Michael Jackson esque celebration. Yeah. When in front of the queen of Spain and the princess of Spain,

4 (7m 25s):
The crowning moment was when he grabbed Jenny Hermosas cheeks, pulled her to him and kissed her on the lips and then went on down the line and the cameras picked up this kiss and it caused a huge, huge sensation. So after the game, Jenny Hermosa and her teammates are in the locker room, they're celebrating, she's eating a brownie, someone shows her the moment and there's an Instagram live video and you see her face and you see her kind of reacting to it. Then she says, what was I supposed to do? And you know, I didn't like it. And she's kind of incredulous.

4 (8m 10s):
And then she's interviewed later on the radio and she downplays it. She says, you know, it was the emotion of the moment. There's nothing more there because she doesn't want this to be what the conversation is about. Like she wants to talk about the world Cup, how they just put on an absolute show. She doesn't wanna talk about being kissed. But then, you know, the media storm just grows and grows and grows.

10 (8m 36s):
They're making four of us around the world because of this, that a macho and mafiaa person is representing us. We won't tolerate it.

11 (8m 43s):
And after mounting pressure, the Spanish football association called a general assembly where the president was expected to resign, instead he announced,

12 (8m 53s):
Is that so serious that I have to leave while having done the best job for Spanish football? Do you really believe that I have to resign? Well, I'm gonna tell you something. I will not resign. I will not resign. No, I will not resign.

4 (9m 10s):
And Ruby Alice says, oh, it was consensual. And she told me I could kiss her. The

13 (9m 16s):
World Cup winning squad has issued a statement in which Jenni Sau insisted that the kiss was not consensual.

14 (9m 24s):
I want to clarify that. At no time did I consent to the kiss, I don't tolerate that. My word is questioned

4 (9m 30s):
And the federation has his back. They accuse herso of lying and they initially say, yeah, no, he's not going anywhere. You guys are being crazy. And she talks about, I am, you know, a victim of this impulse driven, sexist out of place act. And you know, we do want changes.

13 (9m 49s):
The players who signed the communique also said they will not represent their country until Mr. Les is removed.

4 (9m 57s):
Then you know, the storm grows and grows and, and now they are asking for his resignation and he's still refusing his mother locked herself in a church on a hunger strike until you know this witch hunt is over.

15 (10m 11s):
His cousin spoke outside the church.

16 (10m 15s):
Of course he's suffering because he doesn't want his mom to be put in this position, but his mom knows what he's like. Those who know him know who he is. This type of media reaction is not normal. He's not a harasser.

4 (10m 27s):
So there, there's been quite the series of events

17 (10m 30s):
Tonight, outrage growing inside Spain.

18 (10m 33s):
We cannot express our joy as women without having some man interrupted and spoiled.

1 (10m 39s):
This was the message from Spain's deputy prime Minister on Monday,

19 (10m 44s):
Whoever applauds the violation of someone's rights, whoever applauds a presumed sexual aggression, a forced kiss should not continue in their position.

17 (10m 54s):
Prosecutors have opened a criminal investigation into whether it was sexual assault, fifa, suspended rubles for 90 days.

4 (11m 3s):
It's just frustrating because in what should be being talked about was what an absolute show the Spanish team put on. And instead we're talking about males bad behavior. However, maybe we're witnessing like, okay, here's a very clear example of what the players were talking about and what, what more do we need? And now please can we make the changes? We've been asking for

1 (11m 36s):
Gwendolyn Oxenham. She's got a podcast, it's called Hustle Rule. It features the stories of women defying the odds to kick balls from Brazil to Nigeria to New York City when we're back. On today explained how this unwanted kiss might actually lead to another big win for feminism in Spain.

20 (12m 10s):
Brandon Taylor is an acclaimed author who also reviews books and he says right now, book criticism feels off

21 (12m 19s):
The book discourse feels like it's driven by these two polls, which are the picking an argument hatchet job idea. Yeah. And then there's like, no, we're all cheerleaders for books. Yeah. And the sort of greatest casualty is that no one has ideas anymore. They just have bullet points and access to grind.

20 (12m 36s):
Brandon Taylor on his novel, the Late Americans and How we Talk about books this week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast,

22 (12m 47s):
The rain in Spain stays mainly in

1 (12m 51s):
Today explained.

23 (12m 53s):
My name's Lane Green and I am the Madrid Bureau chief for the Economist Magazine.

1 (12m 58s):
I think a sad truth of this situation with the women's world, Cup win, is that more people have now probably heard about this kiss than who actually watched the match. What does this kiss and the uproar around it tell us about Spain right now?

23 (13m 14s):
Well, the uproar around it actually, I think is good news in a weird way because it really shows you how far Spain has come. I think 20, 30, 40 years ago, the average societal sexism, you know, unwanted grabs and kisses and compliments and street harassment were as common or more common in Spain than they are in any other western country. I think that the uproar, the opposition to what happened has been almost across the board politically in the media. And it really shows that a society has come a long, long way. 45th years ago, Spain was a very conservative country. Today it's a country where feminism is both pretty broad and pretty deep and there's not really a lot of prominent voices racking against the reaction.

23 (13m 57s):
In other words, most people are on the side of Jenny Osa who was kissed against her will and not on the side of Luis Rubles, the head of the football federation who kissed her. Tell

1 (14m 7s):
Me about the progression of feminism in Spain and how it compares to other western European nations.

23 (14m 13s):
Yeah, it's a very uneven progress. In 1975, Francisco Franco died

24 (14m 19s):
Inside the Pado Palace, eight miles from Madrid, Francisco Franco, head of state, head of the Army. The man whose dominated Spain for 36 years still fights for his life.

23 (14m 28s):
And he led a, what he called a national Catholic dictatorship in which women needed permissions to do basic things, to travel, to open bank accounts, and to be, you know, fully independent citizens. It was very, very, very old fashioned Catholic and conservative. As a result of that, while the rest of Western Europe was progressing in terms of women's liberation and, and autonomy,

9 (14m 53s):
What we want legally, why we want it, no,

23 (14m 57s):
It was like a court coming out of a bottle and in the 1980s and there was this kind of explosion of the sexual liberation and personal freedoms, it really moved the needle a very, very long way in a very, very short time. So Spain went from being one of the most conservative countries in this regard to very quickly being, I think one of the most feminist in Europe. I think a lot of outsiders might think of Spain and sort of southern European terms still today and compare it with Italy or maybe countries in, in North Africa almost. Whereas if you live in Spain, you see a, a deeply feminist country that is, is more like Scandinavia in many respects than it is like that Franco dictatorship that I was talking about.

23 (15m 39s):
If you look at the government today, it's more than half female. Spain's

19 (15m 42s):
New socialist Prime Minister has described his picks for cabinet. His choices are all pro-European Union and the women outnumber the men.

23 (15m 51s):
There are 13 ministers, I believe, of 24 who are women. But not only that, but they're all the powerful ministries, the ministry of economy, of finance, of defense, of industry of labor, which you might think of as traditionally kind of macho jobs in the past. I think when people wanted to have more women in government, they traditionally gave them jobs like culture and education. And now we're really seeing all of the top jobs except the very top job, the prime ministers being held by women. Spain has never had a woman prime minister, but it, it's first three deputy prime ministers are all women. You see it socially. The, the 8th of March is International Women's Day and you get these massive celebrations and protests in the street, big, big marches.

25 (16m 34s):
We are protesting for equality for the rights of women to show we are not inferior. We want to work live in peace to have the same rights as any man because we are people

23 (16m 43s):
And they're still quite militant. you know, they're not just celebrations of sisterhood and solidarity, but very much demanding, you know, the, the onward march of progress in terms of equal pay in terms of prosecutions of rapes and so forth. And so it's a very, very outwardly feminist society. And you know, one of the few areas where it's not is, is this business of the high levels of sport and the way a lot of companies are run as well. 'cause sport is of course also a business.

1 (17m 11s):
It's funny. Yeah, because you did allude earlier to the fact that this is sort of counterintuitive that this moment of overt sexism that we saw on this global stage could actually be a good thing for feminism in Spain. But how does this progressive country with higher marks on feminism than some of its peers also ignore the claims of its players in the leadup to this world Cup? Well,

23 (17m 35s):
In the leadup to the world Cup, there were a couple of issues, one of which is equal pay. And that's one that sadly has really been seen in lots of countries. The, the US women's national team, of course is very out and and and public about their demands for equal pay. A

25 (17m 48s):
Gender pay gap has been at the crux of a long running legal dispute between US soccer and its players. Those demands now met with an historic agreement

23 (17m 57s):
And that has, has been seen elsewhere. There were also some complaints from the women's team in Spain about their coach, but by and large in Spanish women's sport is, is very eagerly followed there. They broke the attendance record for the biggest crowd at a women's sporting event in, in, in anywhere for any event, for a semifinal for the European Champions League in a game where the Barcelona women's team played Wolfsburg from Germany in a semifinal and back in 91,000 people into Barcelona Stadium. Barcelona

26 (18m 27s):
Have done it. Barcelona take the Champions League crown.

1 (18m 31s):
But of course, this man at the center of this story, unfortunately Luis rubles, he has been fighting this tooth and nail. Is anyone in Spanish society defending him?

23 (18m 43s):
I mean, naturally there are gonna be some, there's not a hundred percent of Spanish society on anything. Spain has its sort of culture wars that are in some ways sadly reminiscent of, of Americas over, over gender, over various other things. Some specific to Spain and some, you know, quite international protestors

27 (19m 2s):
Gathered outside Spain's justice ministry in Madrid on Wednesday, enraged by the controversial ruling that cleared five men of gang raping an 18 year old woman.

23 (19m 11s):
I, I'd say that the unanimity of the criticism is really the striking thing and the, the rarity of the voices that are speaking out in Ruby Alice's favor are, are what really strikes me. I mean, I did see a clip of a, of TV presenter saying, you know, oh, so, so what are men supposed to do today? If I see a woman struggling to get her suitcase up on the, you know, the rack and a train, am I allowed to help her now? Well the answer from, from many commentators on Twitter, yes, of course you say, do you need help? And if she says yes, then you'll help her. And if she says no, then you don't. It's that simple. And also you don't kiss your employees against their will. So there are still some dinosaurs who are acting as though this is some incredibly new complicated, difficult situation.

23 (19m 56s):
But the just as many and, and quite a few of them, even men coming right out and saying, look guys, this is not that complicated. Do be a good person. Help women do not kiss them against their will. If you're not sure, ask them. And of course, Ruby Les himself has said that the kiss was consensual and that he sort of said, would you like to kiss, you know, Ko, you know, would you like a peck? And she said, bye was, you know, okay, so he's saying that she agreed to it beforehand. I I, I don't know that that story will hold up, but there will be, as with the case of after a call, refereeing decisions, we'll, we'll see a lot of video of this and hear more about him. He

1 (20m 32s):
Also grabbed his crotch in front of the Queen and the princess of Spain though.

23 (20m 36s):
Yes, he did. And he did sort of apologize for that. What truly condemned him is two things. First that he did. It was, was one thing, it was bad enough. but he second come out and lied about it. I think a lot of people feel like he said that her story was false and his is true. And he's calling one of the, one of their champions now a national Spanish champion, a liar, and, and that that looks really bad. And then he is also grabbed the attention by going out and giving this defiant speech a few days ago. He really grabbed the spotlight for himself. And so we're all talking about him and not, and not this great triumph by the Spanish women. And

1 (21m 9s):
Well, let's talk about the second triumph of the Spanish women to get so much of the country behind them in this moment to get so much of the world behind them in this moment. What does that mean for this team and for this country?

23 (21m 23s):
I think it means a kind of no going back this moment can really be compared to the Me Too moment in the US five, six years ago with Harvey Weinstein. And, and of course Me Too had really international effects too. It was discussed and it was, it had its effects in France and Spain and European countries too. But I think the reckoning was probably not as, as deep and as thorough going, and now you're seeing a Spanish hashtag, which means it's over going round. And, and Spanish commentators are calling it Spain's me too. We'll, remember this moment, 20 years from now in Spain as, as we remember Me Too. And, and Harvey Weinstein as we remember the murder of George Floyd. I think it's gonna be one of those things that kind of marks a turning point.

23 (22m 6s):
I think that this really puts Spanish sporting women on the kind of equal playing field that they've had. I think in some areas like politics that I mentioned before, but have not had in in other areas, you know, the progress of Spanish feminism has been really spectacular, but also uneven. And I think that winning the championship and, and being the best in the world and then also facing this, you know, is kind of a double, it is a double win. It is, it is a way of saying, we, we beat, we beat England, we beat everybody that came before them, but we, it finally, we put our foot down and said no. And I think that moment is a victory and I think it will be remembered by people who are not top class athletes because it, it, it, it goes to everyday workplaces.

23 (22m 47s):
It goes to how your bosses treat you, not just on the football pitch, but also just at any workplace.

1 (22m 58s):
Lane. Green Madrid, bureau chief for the economist economist.com. The program today was produced by Halima Shaw with help from John Ehrens. We were edited by Miranda Kennedy fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by David Herman. Thanks to Alana Cassanova Burgess and Daniella Larone, this is today explained.