1 (1s):
What if a conspiracy hidden in the pages of an elusive

2 (3s):
comic book turned out to be real welcome to Utopia a twisted new conspiracy Thriller from Amazon Prime video follow a group of young fans on a high-stakes adventure to save Humanity by uncovering the clues of their favorite comic book Utopia. What have you done today to earn your place in this crowded World watched the Amazon original series Utopia now in Prime video to find out

1 (37s):
Andrew Prokop your senior correspondent covering politics here at vaux and New York Times published a trove of information on President. Trump's taxes. Is this it are these the tax returns the country's been waiting for years for basically. Yes, the times did not publish the documents themselves that they obtained because they didn't want to jeopardize their sources, but they basically got to look at tax return data.

2 (1m 6s):
Extending over

1 (1m 7s):
more than two decades related to President Trump including his complete returns as prepared by his accountants through the year 2017 and there's been a lot of focus, of course on the president's taxes through Court proceedings through Congressional hearings what exactly has the country been waiting to learn this whole time. So it was very unusual that Trump refused to release his tax returns while Running for president in 2016. It went against Decades of recent precedent and he continued his unconvincing excuses about why he wasn't doing this ever since he's been

2 (1m 51s):
elected. And as far as the tax returns as soon as the audience complete, like any lawyer would tell you Greta Van Susteren she was going over to while ago. She's a lawyer. She said well, no lawyer would let somebody release a tax return. When they're under ordered its routine order

1 (2m 8s):
is in fact, no law preventing him from releasing his tax returns if he's under audit so many people suspected that he had something to hide here and there were all sorts of theories going around was it that perhaps he paid no income taxes at all in some years. Maybe he doesn't want the American people all of you watching tonight to know that he's paid nothing in federal taxes because it that he might not be as successful of a businessman as he claimed to be and and it's natural to wonder. Well, what is it that he's hiding at his taxes. Maybe it's that Donald Trump doesn't earn nearly as much as he has so loudly told everyone maybe he's not as rich as he says he is who knows maybe it or was he perhaps claiming some deductions and write-offs that were a bit legally aggressive and perhaps dubious that might not stand up to close scrutiny.

1 (3m 5s):
Okay. So what does the New York? Times reporting reveal on those three big buckets the times story reveals that all of those are true that in several years from 2011 to 2014 Trump paid zero federal income taxes and in 2016 to 2017. He paid the paltry sum of seven hundred fifty dollars each year as in you and I probably paid more taxes than President Trump. Yes. I certainly did. I don't know about you shot. I did too. I did too. Okay, good good. They also reveal that the reason Trump paid so little in taxes is because he claimed his businesses were losing massive amounts of money and he used those losses as an excuse on these tax forms to avoid paying income taxes so that if we take it at face value makes him look like a rather unsuccessful businessman and then there's the issue of the dubious.

1 (4m 6s):
Deductions and the time sniffed out a few deductions that he claims or write-offs that he claims that don't seem to really pass the smell test. What are we talking about? The most prominent example is that Trump claimed on several projects that he had consultant expenses and he tried to write off consultant expenses as a business expense millions and millions of dollars worth but Turns out that according to the times is reporting there were no outside Consultants working on these projects for the company and they figured out that some of these payments the amounts match payments given to Trump's daughter Ivanka.

1 (4m 52s):
So it looks like at least in some cases Trump was claiming that he was spending on Consultants as a business expense, but those Consultants were actually his children who also work for his company. Knee and that raises some eyebrows when you say it raises eyebrows. I mean a thing. I wondered last night reading over this stuff is is this illegal or is this just some shady? Accounting? Well, that's the question hanging over all this because it's obviously possible to have really clever accountants. It's also possible to have really aggressive and perhaps unethical accountants and the question of what was Happening here.

1 (5m 37s):
It's tough to conclusively say without having more underlying information about what was going on. But the times also flagged payments for Don Juniors legal fees related to the Russia investigation as questionable because they say you're you're not supposed to deduct legal expenses that come from a political campaign. And then there's also the New York attorney general is investigating certain charitable. Owens Trump claimed the petition also names for Trump organization properties under investigation Seven Springs a 212 acre New York Family Estate in Westchester 40 Wall Street a mixed-use building in lower Manhattan the Trump International Hotel in Chicago Tower as well as Trump National Golf Club in Los Angeles for basically agreeing not to develop on certain of his properties.

1 (6m 29s):
He claimed that this was effectively a charitable donation from him. That would that was very valuable. And and should be deducted from his taxes. So that was already under scrutiny from the New York attorney general. Hmm. So I guess it remains to be seen whether any of this is explicitly illegal or not. Is that fair? Yeah. I mean that's a question for investigators and prosecutors to determine but it certainly doesn't seem absolutely obviously entirely legal. What more do we learn? Learn about the president's debts. There's a lot of attention paid to the mention in the article that Trump has a great deal of debt over 400 million dollars worth that will be coming do in his second term four hundred million dollars.

1 (7m 24s):
Yeah. Now that is actually not a new revelation that has been known since Trump filed his financial disclosure forms back during the 2016 campaign. So there was Of questioning about who exactly that debt was too especially because the times pointed out that the tax returns do not actually mention who holds that debt. But according to Trump's Financial disclosure forms. We actually do know the largest debt holder for Trump is Deutsche Bank.

2 (7m 55s):
It's about 300 million dollars in debt. And these are for all active successful projects. These are golf courses in Florida. This is partially for his hotel in Washington DC which we know Just

1 (8m 6s):
opened, you know rather than secret Russian money being confirmed by this or something like that. It seems that this debt that's being disclosed on the tax returns at least so far as we know appears to be to financial institutions and about mortgages. And is it all these debts that prevent the president from paying taxes, like people like you and me like most Americans so the story as outlined in the time Article, what seems to have happened is that Trump used various parts of the tax code to avoid paying much income taxes for many years.

1 (8m 46s):
And then in the mid-2000s, that's when The Apprentice premiered

2 (8m 54s):
and The Apprentice sent tons of money

1 (8m 57s):
pouring in to Trump's coffers, and he actually ended up

2 (9m 1s):
paying a lot of taxes from 2005 through 2007 according to the times a total of 70 million dollars in federal income taxes the first time he paid substantial income taxes in his life and he appears to have not

1 (9m 19s):
liked this very

2 (9m 20s):
much. So he changed his financial strategy and business strategy what he was going to do from this point forward was to spend a lot of money and

1 (9m 31s):
plow it often into what on paper

2 (9m 34s):
looks like money. I think businesses and then he would claim those losses as business losses and use them to avoid paying income taxes in future year. So if you lose this much money, then you don't owe taxes on the parts of your business that are actually profitable.

1 (10m 2s):
And that's how the president who may or may not be a billionaire gets away with paying 750 dollars in income taxes. Yeah. So the question hanging over this is whether the massive losses that Trump has declared are actually veal because there's one picture in which Trump is actually a pretty incompetent. Businessman. He's losing a ton of money by just plowing it into mainly golf courses. That are losing a ton of money and that that's why he's paying no taxes on the part of his business that is profitable because he's losing so much money on the unprofitable parts of his business.

1 (10m 44s):
The other explanation would be that this is a bit of trickery. I'm Trump's part that he wants to avoid paying taxes. So he has made his golf courses particularly seem very unprofitable on paper weather. This accounting is legal or not. We don't really know it's impossible to say but that that he is kind of seeming to be more unsuccessful than he is just because he doesn't want to pay taxes

2 (11m 26s):
more with Andrew in a minute. What if a conspiracy hidden in the pages of an elusive comic book turned out to be real welcome to Utopia a twisted new conspiracy Thriller from Amazon Prime video follow a group of young fans on a high-stakes adventure to uncover the clues and favorite comic book Utopia. It foretells the end of the world as we know it and this group of unlikely underdogs are the only ones who can connect the dots to save themselves each other and Humanity along the way they'll meet the characters from Utopia in the real world.

2 (12m 15s):
They'll see things they can never unsee the find out how much evil you have to do to do good and they'll discover that the deeper you go down the rabbit hole the darker it gets who is mr. Rabbit. Where is Jessica Hyde? And what have you done today to earn your place in this crowded world? Watch the Amazon original series Utopia now on Prime video to find out So you've got to ask yourself,

1 (12m 43s):
why won't key release his tax returns and I think there may be a couple of reasons first. Maybe he's not as rich as he says he is Andrew four years ago. Hillary Clinton was talking about Trump's tax returns in the presidential debates, or maybe he doesn't want the American people all of you watching tonight to know that he's paid nothing in federal taxes, because I remember the president Loudly saying his not paying federal income taxes made him smart that makes me smart reading this reporting from The New York Times all the loopholes and smokescreens certainly seemed like the work of someone very smart or incredibly stupid.

1 (13m 26s):
Well, the question is how far do you go and claiming aggressive tax deductions or write us without going too far and it does seem that true. Ump is in serious danger of having gone too far the story reveals that he really is under audit from the IRS. He has been for several years and that the audit looks really serious. If there is an unfavorable finding to trump it could cost him about a hundred million dollars in back taxes. So, you know that is more taxes that you would I probably paid a Drew.

1 (14m 7s):
Yes that that Be more taxes than I paid last year. I will admit that tell me a bit more about this audit sounds epic. So back in 2010 just after the financial crisis Trump claimed an income tax refund that was worth seventy two point nine million dollars. That was all of the federal income taxes. He paid from 2005 through 2008 according to the New York Times. He asked for it back.

2 (14m 38s):
Back and this is back when he was making money off The Apprentice if you work hard, you can really hit it big. Yes. I used my brain. I use my negotiating skills and I worked it all out. Now. My company's bigger than it ever. Was it stronger than it ever was and I'm having more fun than I ever had. So he claims

1 (14m 57s):
essentially that he lost so much money during the recession one point four billion dollars for

2 (15m 5s):
me failure is never an option. He deserved to refund of the taxes. He actually

1 (15m 11s):
paid in previous

2 (15m 13s):
years. There is no such thing as failure. Is that a

1 (15m 17s):
federal tax code works? If you lose a bunch of money at one point you can claim that you gave a bunch of money before and then get it back. So this was a specific change that was passed under President Obama that Trump was trying to take advantage

2 (15m 31s):
to thanks Obama. And so

1 (15m 33s):
he basically he wanted all this tax money back that he paid since since 2005 and then initially he actually got it according to Michael Cohen his longtime lawyer and fixer according to Cohen's testimony to Congress last year Trump showed him off a huge check from the US Treasury. He showed me what he claimed was a ten million dollar IRS tax refund and he said that he could not believe how stupid the government was forgiving someone like him that much. Money back, but the thing is that was just a preliminary refund and the question of whether Trump actually deserved.

1 (16m 16s):
All that money back is the topic of the audit that has been unfolding ever since has the president said anything about all this now that the New York Times reporting seems to corroborate something that Michael Cohen said under testimony. He basically said it's all fake

2 (16m 32s):
news totally fake news. We should believe it. It's wrong. Maybe say he has complained about the The audit office every year they audit me audit me audit me. He's complained that you have people in the IRS if the way the treatment very very badly.

1 (16m 48s):
So yeah, he's talked about both the audit and the times reports specifically but not in a particularly candid way. Hmm. What about his tax attorneys? Are they on the line here? They commented on what the times reported. So the times ran a lot of their findings by Alan Garten who's a lawyer for the Trump organization. And he claimed that most if not all of the facts appear to be inaccurate, but he didn't seem to really have much specifics. He claimed that Trump has actually over the past decade paid tens of millions of dollars in personal taxes to the federal government.

1 (17m 27s):
However, as the Times report points out personal taxes is not federal income taxes, that could also include Social Security Medicare payroll. Taxes for employees of which he has quite a few. Yes. I wonder though. How exceptional is this is this just how the system works for the wealthy the well-connected the powerful people like Donald Trump who live in Gold rooms at the top of skyscrapers. There are two schools of thought on this one is that the super-rich have all sorts of ways to take advantage.

1 (18m 8s):
Heads of the tax

2 (18m 10s):
code and try to

1 (18m 11s):
minimize their tax

2 (18m 13s):
liability. I absolutely is it and so did Warren Buffett and so did George Soros and so did many of the other people, you know, this is just

1 (18m 21s):
rather than something unique Trump does but this is something of a broader Scandal that is unfortunately quite

2 (18m 29s):
common. The other school of thought is that Trump goes further than others for instance. There. Is this

1 (18m 36s):
question of The on it that is clearly a sign that the IRS is at least concerned that there is something not entirely

2 (18m 45s):
on the level here to be a super rich person. If you end up paying them 10 percent of your

1 (18m 50s):
income in taxes that

2 (18m 53s):
is pretty common to pay zero is is more unusual. It is not

1 (19m 0s):
necessarily illegal. There are

2 (19m 3s):
potentially legal paths to

1 (19m 5s):
get there, but

2 (19m 7s):
but it's not Norm the times

1 (19m 9s):
reporters write that in many years. Mr. Trump lost more money

2 (19m 14s):
than nearly any other individual American taxpayer. We're talking declared losses in

1 (19m 19s):
the year 1995 of nearly a billion

2 (19m 22s):
dollars for instance. I mean a

1 (19m 29s):
billion dollars of debt a fight with the IRS over a hundred million dollars an agency under his own Super Vision it just reading this article. I felt like The entire Trump presidency is just a conflict of interest. Yeah, and what are the most ominous things in the report from the times is to return to a topic from before the fact that Trump has all of these debts coming do scheduled to come do in his second term. That is a highly unusual situation for a president of the United States who could be on the hook for Four hundred million dollars during his second term who could be on the hook for another hundred million dollars.

1 (20m 17s):
If the audit doesn't go the way he likes like Trump has a lot of money at stake. And in the midst of you know, a pandemic that's killed some 200,000 Americans and economic crisis and Reckoning on race and everything else going on in this country right now. Is it possible that this information these Revelations from The New York Times? We'll make a difference in this election. Well, it certainly wouldn't help Trump. He's running out of time at this point. He's trailing in the polls. He needs to turn things around and this is obviously not what he wants to be talking about. I think there's a question of how many people who currently support Trump might change their minds over this but average people pay taxes.

1 (21m 4s):
They know how much taxes they pay and many of them will probably think that it is quite strange. That they are paying more taxes than they're supposed billionaire president.

2 (21m 20s):
I think it's a little strange at your how about

1 (21m 21s):
you? Yeah, I would agree with that. What if a conspiracy hidden in the pages of an elusive comic book turned out to be real

2 (22m 4s):
welcome to Utopia a twisted new conspiracy Thriller from Amazon Prime video follow a group of young fans on high stakes adventure to save Humanity by uncovering the klusener favorite comic book Utopia. What have you done today to earn your place in this crowded world? What's the Amazon original series Utopia now in Prime video to find out