4 (12s):
Just about a week ago president. Elect Joe Biden address the country from Wilmington Delaware. It was mostly what you'd expect from a Biden victory speech calls for Unity pledges to deal with the coronavirus talk of renewal, but he also made sure to shout out his wife as I said many times before

1 (30s):
I'm Jill's husband and to talk about her resume. She has dedicated her life to education. Petition isn't just what she does. It's who she is for American Educators is a great day for y'all. You're going to have one of your own in the White House and Jill's going to make a great first lady. I'm so proud of her Biden's already got plenty of plans and education. He wants to

4 (59s):
drastically increase spending on public schools. He wants free public College. He wants to appoint an education secretary with teaching experience imagine that most pressing to students and parents across the country. Biden wants to take a different approach to reopening schools in this pen. Hammock, the outgoing guy was all about opening schools as soon as possible which a lot of schools did and now a lot of schools are second-guessing that decision cities like Boston Detroit, Philadelphia Indianapolis and the biggest school district in the country New York City are all reconsidering Biden wants to take a measured approach. He's promising a lot of federal expertise PPE and money to help schools plan their first or second or third reopening safe.

4 (1m 48s):
Glee which is probably a relief to a lot of parents who have abandoned schools all together in this pandemic parents have become teachers and it's been educational not the god. I

2 (2m 2s):
am your humble servant. What I am not

3 (2m 6s):
is a math teacher

2 (2m 7s):
God Lord God. The spirit of Common Core has attacked a household. And right now the only thing we have in common is frustration, and no answer to Math problem Lord God I

1 (2m 19s):
ask that you send down

3 (2m 21s):
your angels of the carryover

4 (2m 23s):
Lord teacher that if you carried the 1

1 (2m 25s):
over to the 10th place you can get the answer Lord. God lord. We Michaud you've been reporting on

4 (2m 31s):
homeschooling during the pandemic for today explained how many Americans are teaching their own kids now compared to before the pandemic

3 (2m 39s):
homeschooling has nearly doubled Sean doubled doubled. Yeah a Gallup poll from August showed that 10 percent of American families with school age kids said that they were going to home school this year and a year ago is only 5%

4 (2m 53s):
Huh. Does that mean like homeschoolers now won't be judged like they were in Mean Girls.

1 (2m 58s):
I know what you're thinking homeschooled kids are freaks XY loc ARP table cards or that we're weirdly religious or something and almost third day. God created the Remington bolt-action rifle so that man can fight the dinosaurs and the homosexuals. Amen, I don't

3 (3m 20s):
have any Mean Girls data yet, but just broadly speaking homeschool is also really popular among kids who might have health conditions that make being in a room with 30 other kids and their germs really risky students with special needs often benefit from the more personalized learning programs that homeschooling offers and one of the fastest-growing homeschool groups in the country are actually African-American students, huh? Yeah in those cases. I've heard parents say Site, that black kids are often over disciplined or that black history is often overlooked in public

4 (3m 54s):
schools. And you spoke to a black family here in DC that's homeschooling right?

3 (3m 59s):
I did and I wanted to find out how regular parents are dealing with being their kids primary teachers, but I started with the student who's dealing with this firsthand.

2 (4m 10s):
My name is Alia Amir Smitha and I'm 10

3 (4m 14s):
as a homeschooler Zoe enjoys a flexible schedule that's on her. And her parents time but it still feels like school. You know,

2 (4m 21s):
it's good, but I still have to wake up at a certain time and it's still a lot of work. It's a lot of work on Monday Tuesdays and Wednesdays and on Thursdays and Fridays that lighter days but this don't

3 (4m 34s):
work. I also spoke to Monaca youth see she runs the homeschooling group that Zoe is part of which is called Sankofa. We

2 (4m 41s):
always had a lot of interest in Sankofa because of the types of classes that we offer really Creative outside of the box classes

3 (4m 50s):
Sankofa is an African centered group that supports homeschool students and families in the DMV. That's the DC Maryland and Virginia and covid-19 has definitely impacted the level of Interest our

2 (5m 4s):
enrollment doubled since the pandemic and because our classes are now offered online. We don't have space constraints so we can offer a lot more classes and we can serve a lot more families not just in the DMV. Have all across the country and outside of the country as well.

3 (5m 22s):
I grabbed my mask and my mic and decided to get a closer. Look at what homeschooling looks like at Zoe's house on a

1 (5m 28s):
Friday morning will have the Mari. I see

3 (5m 35s):
her dad Brian Smith in is a public school teacher. He's talking to his second grade math class

1 (5m 41s):
from his kitchen table section because a lot of you guys have showed me that you know how to add subtract. Alright, so the first intervention block Will be primarily adding and subtracting and all the things that we did in module 1. All

3 (5m 53s):
right, Brian's wife. Lauren is an Adjunct professor at a local University. But right now she's sitting on the couch a few feet away checking her laptop while breastfeeding Zoe's eight-month-old sister.

1 (6m 6s):
So yes, you're tired a

3 (6m 9s):
few feet away. So he sits with her laptop while eating breakfast

1 (6m 16s):
potatoes. I just finished my egg.

3 (6m 21s):
She's doing schoolwork but unlike public school kids. She's working on math problems from a lesson plan that her parents create and help her

1 (6m 28s):
with seriously 24 32 40. Three four, Zoe did distance learning

3 (6m 40s):
last spring when Public Schools made a quick chaotic shift to online classes. Her parents say she barely interacted with her peers. And when she did it was for 20 to 30 minutes over video the rest of the teaching happened through pre-recorded or PowerPoint lessons,

1 (6m 59s):
maybe this fall when it didn't look

3 (7m 1s):
like distance learning was going to go much more smoothly the smithens took. Daughter's education into their own hands. I guess what we saw last school year. You just didn't know what you were going to be stepping into this school year. So like at the beginning of the academic school year for Zoe

2 (7m 21s):
the the school system was sending out a ton of different emails with conflicting and confusing information. Again, they were just trying to play catch-up

1 (7m 30s):
and I think the other thing too is the uncertainty of When will the students go back to school, you know that uncertainty with the virus? That's just unsettling and we just decided that it was best for her to just stay home.

3 (7m 47s):
The family says online learning in DC public schools is more robust since last year, but Brian is still seeing challenges with his second graders

4 (7m 57s):
the students. They don't have the know-how to move

1 (8m 2s):
around the virtual realm the way that I can. Most of the time they need a parent's assistance and then if the parent has multiple children it

4 (8m 13s):
can it can be a toss-up as well because maybe that child in my class is the older child and they

1 (8m 20s):
have to hold their brother-sister for a little while. The blessing is that a teacher has always wanted the parents to be involved. I haven't seen the parent involvement as much as I do now, so the be Behaviors have been Top Notch, you know, you still have those

4 (8m 41s):
lingering students that want

1 (8m 42s):
to lay down or they want to show that toys. So trying to find that balance is the hard part

3 (8m 49s):
Zoe is a fifth grader who is older than her dad students. She didn't really mind distance learning so much except for the packets of schoolwork that she might have to complete by the end of the week.

2 (9m 0s):
I didn't like the package but I did like how we did only the Meetings at the teacher like once a week because I did not want to have to be online every day when when it came to work. It wasn't too much like but I didn't want to do work at all. But I was having that summer was almost there

3 (9m 24s):
now instead of interacting with a classroom teacher for only a few minutes a week Zoe is interacting with her home school teachers her parents every day. She walked me through her home school days. So far

2 (9m 36s):
all cup, and then I got ready and I try to get ready and then I came downstairs and then I finish getting ready then I ate apples and then I started math there was fractions subtraction. And then there was just patterns next we have science or science. If daddy's off. He helps me and then after that I have a break and then Ela and then I have Civics mama you Answer me and then on break lunch. I helped me when I spoke to

3 (10m 11s):
Monica. You'd see who runs Sankofa The Homeschool Group that Zoe is part of she told me homeschooling offers kids a chance to do what distance learning doesn't make learning work for the family and the student

2 (10m 24s):
most distance programs if they're through the public school system. It's going to be one size fits all so there's no variety. There's no customizing and for homeschoolers a parent can choose a whole different program for each child. So in that respect, yes homeschoolers have the advantage because they can pick and choose curriculum and resources that appeal to their child's learning style and

3 (10m 54s):
interest but the sniffing say homeschooling is a huge time commitment. That is not an option for everyone. They're glad to have more flexibility now that they can work from home and can tag team homeschooling Zoe.

1 (11m 8s):
He's wasn't focused tell me

3 (11m 12s):
but the pandemic means everyone is under the same roof at the same time trying to keep a delicate ecosystem of working learning and care giving a float Brian misses his solo commute to work.

4 (11m 25s):
I would at least have ten minute ride, you know, and it's just me and the radio, you know, or just me and Wind, you know, but now

1 (11m 34s):
I don't have any of that. So I have to go out and

4 (11m 36s):
find that that time, you know, so that's the only thing that's that is different. You know that you could literally pull each other's hair out because you're just like beside each other every day.

3 (11m 48s):
I mean, I'm exhausted. I'm exhausted but

2 (11m 53s):
this is going to sound corny I think

3 (11m 55s):
because I love my family so much that I am just willing to make it work.

4 (12m 6s):
Oh, that's really sweet. But leave I feel like listening to those two and like the Smith and family. It's just like The Brady Bunch of homeschooling is just perfect. They're there already Educators. They have the the tools they need to make this happen in like the smoothest way possible and it's still kind of tricky. But like what about everyone else?

3 (12m 26s):
Yeah. I mean we should note here that many people are staying in their Public Schools distance learning programs so we can assume that at least some people are satisfied with the way that distance learning is going. Okay, but the problem is that even if you are doing the same distance learning program as maybe 30 other kids you may all have different Wi-Fi access, you might have different homework help or you might just have the luxury of quiet time to do well in distance learning that other students don't

4 (12m 54s):
always have some real Classic Education Gap issues

3 (12m 58s):
here. Yeah, and the pandemic is going to make those more apparent and it's going to make it more difficult to solve.

4 (13m 3s):
How so

3 (13m 4s):
I will tell you after the break,

4 (13m 6s):
okay? support for the show today comes from crates and also Barrel Crate and Barrel wants to be your destination for the holiday shopping this year, especially now that you and everyone, you know has become like a expert home Chef cratenbarrel carries the brands that people who know about these sorts of things like cooking all agree are the absolute cream of the crop like KitchenAid Smeg And look crew set that last ones French.

4 (13m 48s):
So, you know, it's good. They told me to say that check out great Barrel.com right now to start taking things off your shopping list. If you're one of those people who starts getting ready early like it's November mid-november early November still early November is an emo band. I used to listen to when I was in high school. Anyway, cratenbarrel.com start taking things off your list choose contact list curbside pickup at a store near Near you and you'll have your slave filled it no time. They also wanted me to say that.

3 (14m 28s):
This is Advertiser content.

1 (14m 31s):
We now have 2.3

4 (14m 33s):
million people

1 (14m 34s):
incarcerated in

4 (14m 36s):
America less than seven percent of them

1 (14m 40s):
are incarcerated for violent

2 (14m 42s):
crime. That's attorney Jeffrey Robinson director of the ACLU trone Center for justice and equality his work inspired the making of who we are a podcast by Ben & Jerry's and produced by Vox creative who we are a Chronicle of racism in Car is hosted by Peabody award-winning journalist Carvel Wallace.

1 (15m 2s):
Surely you knew this was a racist

4 (15m 3s):
country. What does that mean for us today?

3 (15m 6s):
The prison population in the United States has increased seven hundred percent since 1970. Black Americans make up almost 40% of it.

1 (15m 15s):
We didn't get here by accident. I didn't know these things because I hadn't been taught them. And then the question is why wasn't I taught them because this information it may be hidden, but it's hiding in plain

2 (15m 32s):
sight who we are takes historic look at the disease of racism in America and traces it back to its tipping points. This includes the Tipping Point. We're at today.

1 (15m 41s):
I think Americans are watching and thinking and looking at this issue in ways, they never have before and that's why I say, this is our last Best chance because if we don't get it right this time where America is headed is someplace I don't think anybody wants to go.

2 (15m 59s):
How do we make our last best chance count Listen to Who We Are a podcast I Ben & Jerry's and produced by box creative now streaming wherever you get your podcasts.

4 (16m 16s):
Okay, so hold him out. We heard from the Smith and family who are like uniquely suited and well positioned for this moment. They're both Educators and now they're homeschooling but that can't be the case with the rest of the country that's dealing with this. Right what's going on elsewhere?

3 (16m 31s):
Yeah. I had a similar question and that was why I reached out to Emma Vdara most recently. I served as Chief of Staff in the Obama Administration at the US Department of Education for secretary Arne Duncan and John King right now. She leaves Policy Think Tank called Next 100. And she said it's too early for comprehensive data on School enrollment since the Academic Year just started the early data shows that there are drops in public school enrollment in La unified which is the second largest District in the country kindergarten enrollment decreased by nearly 6,000 students, which is about a 14% drop. I think we can glean what we're seeing a lot of us are saying play out every day, which is remote learning online learning.

3 (17m 14s):
Earning is not working. Well for a lot of families, you know, we asked schools to do a lot of things. We asked schools to provide academic support to provide social and emotional support schools provide a place for kids to be with their friends and form those relationships, they provide food and meals and right now schools can't do a lot of those things and out of all those families for whom online learning isn't working only some are going to be able to find an alternative. We have some sense also really anecdotally and from surveys of Parents trying homeschooling of more parents trying public charter schools of more families trying private schools home schooling a learning pod with a private tutor or switching schools will be most accessible to families that have the extra time or income which means that covid-19 is widening the opportunity gaps that low-income families students of color students with disabilities and English language Learners already faced.

3 (18m 14s):
And covid has highlighted those challenges to make them harder to ignore but also harder to address and they've been exacerbated through remote learning, you know, and that's played out as the digital divide has meant that low-income students are less likely to have access to the best remote learning. We have their schools were more likely to close earlier in the school year and be closed for longer. They're less likely to have synchronous instruction IE instruction, which students are actually engaging with teachers. And so we're just seeing each of these gaps actually widen at the moment when we know those students needs and their communities are actually being hardest hit what's more is that when better resource to students leave the system it's bad news for public schools school systems are funded on a per pupil basis when your enrollment goes down your Revenue goes down when your enrollments.

3 (19m 14s):
Well, it's also hard to plan around that's on top of the financial constraints that public schools already face because of the pandemic. They're seeing budget cuts due to decreased state and local tax revenue. They're facing increased costs associated with providing safe in person learning and remote learning right from PPE to closing the digital divide. Those are increased costs. They weren't prepared to take on and they will see increased costs for the additional academic catch up and non-academic. Means that students will need as they return.

1 (19m 46s):
Yeah, you went into the negative cover. I didn't know we're going by seven. Okay, I got this methods are a family of Educators.

3 (19m 56s):
Brian is a teacher Lauren is a professor. So they both have their own concerns about what the move to home-school means for the mission of public education. I mean this from a political

2 (20m 7s):
standpoint, I feel like The trans over one one side of the coin can be

3 (20m 13s):
very, you know beneficial to young people and to

2 (20m 16s):
families but on

3 (20m 18s):
the other side, it's like our

2 (20m 20s):
public school system is under attack and it's been under attack for quite some time.

3 (20m 26s):
So it's great that

2 (20m 28s):
people want to homeschool is great that you know, people are

3 (20m 30s):
supplementing education and no learning at home. But at the same time I'm really concerned about the public school

2 (20m 37s):
system. I really really am I

3 (20m 38s):
used to substitute teacher But Lauren also sees an opportunity for busy families who decide to pursue homeschooling when I think of like the gig economy that has taken over within I don't know the

2 (20m 51s):
past no decade or so even

3 (20m 53s):
longer. It seems that there

2 (20m 56s):
are a lot of people

3 (20m 58s):
who don't just have one job. I

2 (21m 1s):
don't just have one job, you know, my husband doesn't so

3 (21m 5s):
if that

2 (21m 6s):
Trend

3 (21m 7s):
continues then I think that people can do What they're doing for people like Sal Khan who launched the wildly popular K to 12 free online learning platform Khan Academy, the drive towards online learning was a long time coming. It just happened in the less than ideal way

1 (21m 24s):
as sometimes a poster child for online learning or distance learning. I make it very clear that what's going on with covid is suboptimal right now. It's going to hurt a lot of kids. There are Silver Linings in that there might be more energy to behind closing the digital divide than ever before. Everyone is thinking of really Innovative models. There's more of a willingness to experiment and try new things. And so I'm hoping some of that energy continues

3 (21m 45s):
Sal says that in a perfect world. These Technologies would be coupled with in-person instruction and integrating these personalized digital learning tools into public education will actually Bridge the equity gap, which is getting worse in the pandemic.

1 (22m 0s):
You could be in rural Idaho, which is actually the highest per capita usage of Khan Academy in the world is in Idaho, and it's for a reason because you might not have someone who can teach you calculus within 20 miles of your home. And so it does open up ways to not be as Bound by time or space or you know, just the people that you have direct contact

3 (22m 21s):
with in 20 19 18 billion dollars was invested in online learning platforms. Globally. It's not just because students in the pre covid World needed to take a Calculus class that wasn't available. Sal says that self-paced online education is really useful for Who are behind in core subjects and there will likely be more students like that in the post covid World

1 (22m 46s):
seventy percent of all students who go to Community College. So these are the kids who for the most part of trying to do the right things. They graduate from high school. They're trying to go to Community College 70% have to engage in some form of remediation. And so how our whole argument pre covid was we need to create ways to reach these kids so that they can fill in their gaps, which does probably need for you to learn at your own time and Pace to a certain degree without the use of online technology. You would have to have an army of tutors to do something like that. But now there are other

3 (23m 18s):
tools policymakers like Emma vedera also believe it's important to keep investing in public schools. Even if online learning makes other options more viable, that's because she thinks students will eventually go back to their Public Schools. I really do think the vast majority of families are going to come back to

4 (23m 38s):
Skulls

3 (23m 40s):
first on the vast vast majority are saying enrolled in their public schools to be clear and I think a lot of those who are leaving are going to come back. I think the other thing I'd say is Covid is showing us just how unrwa zillion tar educational system really is. Right. So nobody was prepared for this all of our Educational Systems, even the most privileged to we're not prepared have been slow to transition. I think that in a lot of ways this has drawn attention to just how much our schools do in our communities, right? They're not just teaching kids to read. They're also doing all the other things for kids and families and so in some way it's highlighted.

3 (24m 21s):
How critically we need them? Zoe Smith in is likely one of those students who will return to public

4 (24m 29s):
school.

3 (24m 31s):
Her parents say it's because she's excited to go to middle school next year, but I

2 (24m 35s):
wanted to be actually in school

3 (24m 38s):
she misses lunch and recess with her friends the

4 (24m 40s):
most so we would

2 (24m 42s):
sit around and everybody was talking and do what she what and then I'll be so loud in the cafeteria know Carrie, but then sometimes you can tell Elsa.

4 (24m 52s):
Fine. I

2 (24m 53s):
don't know why you got this with food and stuff. It's like you can't do that anymore because there's no one to do that with and it's not gonna be allowed at the house. If you sit at the table, it's not a whole class of people.

4 (25m 15s):
So he's smitten. She's 10 making homeschool cool before heading off to Middle School Halima Shaw is a reporter and producer at today explained her story today was edited by Amy drozd hasta. The rest of the team includes will read muj zany. I'm gonna al-saadi and know I'm hassenfeld who contributes music the rest of it comes from brake master cylinder extra help this week from bird Pinkerton Cecilia lay and Paul Mounds e a film Shapiro's the show's engineer gold Arthur. Supervising producer and Liz Kelly Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcasts. I'm Sean rhombus from today explained as part of the Box media podcast Network.