0 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from Venmo. Next time you split the bill score $10. When you pay with Venmo, from rent and utilities to concert, tickets and dinners out. Venmo makes it easy to share the fun and split the check in the app order delivery for the group. Get paid back before your meal, arrive, share a ride with your roommates, split the car and the charge. Sign up today with the code explained and get $10 to spend and send offer ends December 31st, 2021 limited availability see terms at venmo.me/sign up 10 that's $10 with the promo code explained

1 (32s):
This episode is brought to you by the Atlantic's podcast, the review, which is basically like hearing your smartest, most cultured friends dish on the world of pop culture. Listen to an engaging group of the Atlantic's best culture writers break down the songs, movies and TV shows that everyone's talking about. Don't just binge your entertainment. Learn what it's saying, understand its deeper meanings and hear what it means in the larger world of pop culture. That's the review from the Atlantic subscribe today on your favorite app or visit the atlantic.com/review

0 (1m 23s):
It's today explained I'm Sean Rama's from, we found out about Omicron on Thanksgiving weekend. So on November 29th, our first day back, we went to a mayor Irfan who reports on science of Vox for answers. Understandably, he didn't have a lot at the time, but he still helped us understand how governments were responding. Now that we have a few more answers. Umar is back Umar. We've known about Omicron for a few weeks. Now, what more do we know about how it works?

3 (1m 50s):
There was a study that just came out this week from the largest health insurance company in South Africa that looked at about 210,000 COVID 19 results. And they found that the overall risk of hospitalization was about 29% lower with AMR Cron compared to infections with the variant of that infected South Africa last summer, and that's controlling for the vaccination status. And so that seems to hint that this is a less severe version of the virus. Okay. That's good news. But we also saw that this seems to be a much more transmissible variant of the virus. So more people seem to be getting it, including people who have been previously infected and people who have been vaccinated.

0 (2m 33s):
Okay. That's bad news. Tell me more about this study.

3 (2m 38s):
Well, they looked at, you know, people in South Africa, South Africa has had multiple waves with multiple different variants throughout this pandemic. South Africa also has roughly about 40% of its adults vaccinated at this point. So it's still a minority and there's still a lot of unvaccinated people, but between the waves of infection and the vaccinations, some of the researchers I talked to say that about 70% of south Africans have been exposed to the virus in some fashion. And so the fact that this variant seems to be spreading, nonetheless, seems to show that previous exposures and previous protection doesn't hold up as well.

4 (3m 15s):
Cron is causing an increase in COVID-19 re-infection in South Africa.

5 (3m 20s):
PETA's infection used to protect against Delta and now with Anaconda doesn't seem to be okay.

3 (3m 27s):
What they've seen in their hospitals is that you're seeing fewer people needing things like oxygen and ventilation and intubation after they've been admitted. And it seems that even though more people are getting infected, fewer of them are getting severely ill. But in South Africa, they're also seeing a huge growth in cases. You know, they're seeing, you know, doubling or tripling week over week,

6 (3m 49s):
Hi, nearly 20,000 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, 36, new COVID related deaths.

3 (3m 57s):
So even if a smaller number of people are getting severely ill, the fact that more people are getting ill means that they could still face a big stress on their healthcare system.

7 (4m 6s):
Africa's president Cyril, Rama poser urge citizens to get vaccinated against COVID-19 on Monday a day after he tested positive.

3 (4m 16s):
And of course the caveat here is that, you know, we're only a few weeks into the, after our discovery of this variant and to this outbreak. So a lot of these results are still preliminary. There's usually a lag between when we first start detecting cases. And when we start seeing a rise in hospitalizations at death, so the other shoe may still get dropped.

0 (4m 38s):
So this particular study solely focuses on South Africa, is that right?

3 (4m 42s):
Right. You know, South Africa was one of the first places that discovered the overcrowd variant did. So some of the best information we have is from there. And South Africa has actually done a fairly good job about tracking COVID-19 throughout the pandemic. And so the data that they have is actually fairly robust. And a lot of researchers around the world are paying close attention there.

0 (4m 60s):
The South Africa has a much younger population, comparatively, at least with the west. Is that something that could skew the data here?

3 (5m 8s):
That's a potential factor here, but from some of the folks that I've talked to, including some health officials on the ground, they say that they're seeing co op Macron infections in all age groups in all demographics. And they're seeing a lower rate of severe cases above all demographics as well.

0 (5m 23s):
What about the symptoms here does coming down with Omicron, feel qualitatively different than say Delta or G Rona.

3 (5m 31s):
It is a milder virus. So it does seem to lead to milder symptoms.

8 (5m 36s):
The nation in Johannesburg, South Africa, after contracting the Omnicon variant of

3 (5m 42s):
COVID, lot of folks have reported things like a scratchy

8 (5m 45s):
Throat, a sore throat, urea,

3 (5m 47s):
Congested nose, dry cough, muscle aches, and pain, lower back pain, kind of

8 (5m 52s):
Just feeling very,

3 (5m 53s):
Very run down. And so the symptoms overall don't seem to be all that worrying, but, you know, because this disease can spread asymptomatically, you know, it's important to get tested and we may not fully know the full spread or the extent of this variant because so many people may be infected and not realize it. Hmm.

0 (6m 12s):
And how about the vaccines? Do they work more effectively against Omicron, less effectively,

3 (6m 18s):
So Pfizer and BioEnTech, you know, they develop the, and a vaccine. They found that when you get a boost,

9 (6m 24s):
So you dramatically increase the level of projected protection by about 25 fold, which means that people who get boosted after their two dose MRNs should really do that

3 (6m 37s):
Quite well. A new study on the Madrona vaccine found that it two needed a booster to be effective against all Macron. There was also another study done on the AstraZeneca Oxford vaccine that was preliminary, but it found that that vaccine offered diminished protection. And there are some ongoing studies on the Johnson and Johnson vaccine. Okay. Those seem to be offering less protection against some of the other variants. South Africa famously actually stopped the distribution of the AstraZeneca vaccine because they found it was much less effective against one of the variants that was circulating there. So the Pfizer vaccine is one of the more commonly used vaccines in South Africa right now, which is why they were very keen on testing that one. Okay. So,

0 (7m 15s):
You know, right now is that Omicron is less severe, but it is significantly more infectious. And it's also good at evading our vaccines. It's spreading exponentially in South Africa and is now about something like 3% of all cases in the United States. But that number is obviously going to grow. What will that growth look like?

3 (7m 35s):
Well, first I want to push back on what we actually know. These are the earliest bits of evidence and they're not certain, and we can still find information in that coming weeks that will contradict this. And so I want to have that caveat there that this is just an early indication. Okay, good caveat. And then as far as what we can expect here in the U S like there's a lot that could happen, but you could probably group them in one or two different ways. One is that we'll have more cases that are less severe, and because there's so much less severe, we'll have fewer people in the hospital. And overall the health burden of this will be much less. So in one scenario, we'll have the lower severity of this variant being the more significant

0 (8m 11s):
Factor. That sounds like a good scenario. What's the other one.

3 (8m 14s):
Well, the other one is where the transmissibility becomes the more significant factor. So we still have less severe cases, but because it's so much more transmissible, we have so many more people getting infected that even though there's a smaller percentage overall of severe cases, that absolute number is so large that it does still overwhelm the healthcare system. We still have more people going into the hospital and that not only impacts people getting COVID-19, but that impacts everybody else who needs to use the hospital as we see constraints for other resources. And so if the hospital beds are all full with people with COVID patients, you know, that's going to be harder to get treated for things like heart attacks or respiratory distress or any other kinds of issues you may have in that enter intervening time.

3 (8m 57s):
And so it has a big ripple effect,

0 (8m 60s):
And I'm guessing the way around scenario two, which sounds much worse than scenario one is making sure people get boosted, get their second shots, get their first shots, wear masks and take safety precautions.

3 (9m 12s):
The way around both scenarios is to use that exact playbook, the same playbook that we've been using the entire,

0 (9m 19s):
But the problem is people are getting pretty tired of that playbook. Huh?

3 (9m 22s):
We've been at this for two years. A lot of people are a bit tired of wearing masks about social distancing and not being able to go to work or take all these precautions and the will is just not there. And that's kind of the challenge because individually our risk from this virus may be lower, but collectively across the society, the risk is still there. So that's really the hard message to sell to people that, you know, you meet yourself may not be the one getting severely ill, but if too many people get sick from this, then this is going to have major health impacts. Again,

0 (10m 7s):
How to keep COVID cases down when people are sorta over being careful after a quick break from our sponsor on today, explain

11 (10m 26s):
This podcast is brought to you by Twilio, for businesses around the world, unlocking and unifying real-time customer data is critical, especially for delivering truly personalized campaigns at scale. That's why companies like Instacart into it. And IBM are turning to Twilio, which was recently ranked number one for 2020 market share and customer data platforms by IDC to learn how Twilio can help your business hardest real-time data and build customer engagement like no other visit twilio.com

0 (10m 56s):
Support for the show. Once again, today comes from click up. Remember that thing I said about John Day, that terrible thing, that terrible name for a new day I proposed the point of the story was click up. Just wants to save you a ton of time by putting all the things you do for work into one place. They want to bring all those tasks and docs and chats and apps into just this one space where you can get work, done, click ups, as they guarantee. They guarantee it that one day a week, we'll come back to you. If you use click up and I want you to take them up on that offer, they've seen it happen for their customers.

0 (11m 37s):
Click up has analyzed 4,000 teams. They were looking at time saved for those teams. Once they switched to click up and on average, they got back a full day, a week. According to click up, that is 52 days back every year. For, for those of you doing the arithmetic at home, try up for free today, click up.com/today explained

12 (12m 0s):
Today, I'm back to announce our action plan to battle. COVID-19 this winter,

0 (12m 5s):
Dylan Scott, you're a senior correspondent covering healthcare here at Vox. Omicron is coming from the United States. It's already here. What's president Biden's plan to deal with it. So,

13 (12m 15s):
So earlier this month, president Biden laid out his winter COVID plan,

12 (12m 20s):
And it doesn't include shutdowns or lockdowns, but widespread vaccinations and boosters and testing and,

13 (12m 26s):
And the plan to get us through the next few months when experts were already expecting before Omicron ever came on the scene, at least a small surge in COVID cases, just because, you know, the virus seems to be settling into a bit of a, a seasonal pattern, not unlike the flu and now with Omicron coming on the scene and looking much more transmissible. You know, I think the possibilities of a, a big winter church are only rising, no

12 (12m 53s):
Housing moving to the winter and face the challenges of this new variant. This is a moment we can put the devices behind us. I hope this is a moment we can do what we haven't been able to do enough of through this whole pandemic, get the nation to come together.

13 (13m 7s):
So the white house has, has laid out their playbook for trying to blunt the impact of the virus over the winter. And really it's got like three big components. One is vaccinations, including booster shots for as many people as possible. And then, you know, newly vaccinating as many kids. And, you know, as many new adults as we can reach to is trying to make tests affordable for people. And, and the way they're proposing to do that is to let people submit the costs of buying a test to their insurance company for reimbursement, and then three, they are proposing to create what they're calling strike teams that can be deployed to assist hospitals and local health departments that are facing acute emergencies because of surges in COVID cases and hospitalizations and their immediate vicinity.

13 (13m 60s):
So it's a pretty comprehensive plan and they try to touch on as many parts of the pandemic response as you'd expect. But, you know, the, the challenge is going to be, you know, how much of a difference can the federal government really make? When a lot of states are resistant to any new COVID interventions. And frankly, a lot of the public is getting sick of, of living in this pandemic reality and, and anxious to move on to a new kind of normal where the virus isn't constantly impeding on their lives.

0 (14m 35s):
Before we talk about the challenge is more, let's talk about this winter plan. Sounds cool, but like boosters, let's start with boosters. Boosters have already been around for a while. What's new about Biden's plan for boosters.

13 (14m 47s):
There's a couple of things. One before the Biden white house even laid out this winter plan, the CDC had revised its guidance for boosters to say that all adults over age 18 should get a booster shot six months or later after they got their first two doses,

14 (15m 5s):
32 million Americans have already had a booster shot. And now those numbers are expected to shoot up as Americans look to boost their immunity heading into the holidays.

13 (15m 14s):
So now everybody in the country is now recommended to get a booster shot. And that reflected an optimism among experts that even though the boosters have not been, you know, re-engineered for Omicron specifically, there's still a belief that a booster of the old vaccine will still provide more protection against, especially severe illness from Omicron. When you get

9 (15m 37s):
Boosted, it brings it back up to the level of pretty good protection, which is a very strong argument for people getting their boosters.

13 (15m 46s):
So they're just, they're trying in a couple of small ways beyond the, the CDC guidance to increase booster uptake. One thing they're doing is partnering with the ARP for an education plan to just inform a seniors about the availability of boosters and why they're important. They're planning to use Medicare as well to do some outreach to people, but, you know, we've, we've got a long way to go. Only about 30% of the eligible adults have gotten their booster shots at this point. And then we've also got, you know, another 30% of the population that's totally unvaccinated.

0 (16m 21s):
All right. So an uphill battle on boosters, but it's happening at least slowly at this point. What about testing? We did a recent episode on how the us really fell behind on testing, especially compared to our peers in Europe. How does Biden want to finally fix that health?

12 (16m 39s):
The insurers must cover the cost of at-home testing so that if you're one of the 150 million Americans with private health insurance next month, your plan will cover at home test

13 (16m 51s):
The way they put it is they want to make at-home testing free for everybody. Nice. Yeah, that sounds great. Right. But they're doing it in a slightly roundabout way. So rather than just like buying a 500 million testing kits and sending them to every person in the United States, what they're proposing is okay, you or I could go to CVS or Walgreens and purchase a testing kit ourselves, but then we can take the receipt from that purchase and send it to our health insurer. And then our health insurer is supposed to reimburse us for the cost of purchasing a test over the counter. Hmm. Most nice. This is not a plan that a lot of public health experts are really enthusiastic about, to be honest with you,

0 (17m 35s):
Can everyone file insurance reimbursements to get free tests does not sound like making this a lot easier or compelling for people to go do?

13 (17m 44s):
No, it's, it's not the smoothest way to do it. That's for sure. Okay. Let's talk

0 (17m 48s):
About part three of this three part plan, this

13 (17m 52s):
Strike team. What is that? Yeah, so there's actually a couple of different types of strike teams and what these teams would be would basically be like teams of nurses and doctors and, you know, public health workers, epidemiologists, those kinds of folks who would be kind of on-call and available to deploy to specific localities that are having a really serious and acute surge of COVID cases. So like one of these teams might be deployed to hospitals that are being strained because of COVID and because they don't have enough staff. So the idea is like, okay, you're experiencing a COVID surge right now, and you're already understaffed at your local hospitals. We're going to send a bunch of nurses there to help you, you know, deal with the glut of patients that might be coming in because of COVID.

13 (18m 37s):
Another one of these teams could be deployed, you know, specifically to administer the antibodies treatment that has been shown to lead to better outcomes for people who get infected with COVID. And then another one of these teams could just be like a, a team of epidemiologists who can support a local health department. That's like is just trying to get a handle on like, all right, how widespread is the virus in our local area? You know, where some of the vectors, you know, where some of the trouble areas that we might want to consider, you know, restrictions or new closures or whatever, basically just a whole team of kind of disease investigators who can embed with a local or state health department and just help them get a handle on tracking the virus.

0 (19m 18s):
How does this winter plan of president Biden stack up against other countries plans for handling Delta surges and Omicron and everything else? So

13 (19m 29s):
I would say that our federal government is being less aggressive than other federal governments. So, you know, in the United Kingdom, for example, they've instituted new mass mandates. You have to get like a pass, you know, the proves vaccination. If you're going to go to large events, they've mandated vaccines for their national health service.

15 (19m 48s):
Biggest thing that every one of us can do is to get our jobs and crucially to get that booster. As soon as our turn

13 (19m 55s):
Arrives got countries like Austria and Germany that have put new restrictions into place for unvaccinated people, specifically France, and some other countries have closed like nightclubs and restaurants, and a hope to, to stem the spread of Omicron specifically, Denmark's another country that's done that. So at the national level, we are not doing quite as much as, as other countries are. I would say, you know, the U S is situation is complicated by a couple of things. One, we're just a much bigger country that has this, you know, federalized system of government. And so a lot of, you know, the responsibilities for making these decisions are just by the way, we've structured.

13 (20m 36s):
Our government are delegated to states and local governments. And we have seen some states, you know, California and New York have have re-instituted mass mandates. I today I'm

16 (20m 46s):
Announcing that we are enacting a statewide indoor mask mandate unless a business has have met vaccinate.

13 (20m 55s):
You've seen some local governments introducing vaccine mandates for like indoor dining or indoor activities. So like, you know, at a more localized level, I think you are seeing parts of the United States be as aggressive as those European countries are, but at the national level, on the one hand, it's harder for the Biden administration to do those kinds of things, because they might just not be legally permissible, but also, you know, they're dealing with a very polarized population where a lot of people, a lot of state governments are not interested in putting these kinds of interventions back into place. And so I think the Biden administration is thinking of it as like we're going to do what we can to help people get vaccinated, to help people get tested, to help people get treatment if they end up infected with COVID.

13 (21m 43s):
But like beyond that, there is not as much that the Biden administration can do. And so I think this, this plan is sort of a tacit acknowledgement of the limits of their own power.

0 (22m 5s):
And did it have to be that way? Did we have to accept that it would just be something we live with and just experience hundreds of thousands of deaths a year? I think we just hit another grim milestone in the United States, 800,000 dead, which is likely an undercount, which is equivalent to a major American city. And more people have died in 2021 than died in 2020, even with vaccines and boosters. I know we're increasingly desensitized to these numbers, but was there another way

13 (22m 36s):
I'm pretty skeptical that we could have just stamped out COVID in the spring of 2020, no matter who was in charge and no matter, you know, what was done, but, you know, I think in terms of the world that we actually occupy and the world as it existed in spring of 2020, it was always going to be bad. I don't know that anybody imagined it would be this bad. And I think that's because a lot of us didn't appreciate how, how deeply divided our country really was.

0 (23m 16s):
Dylan Scott reports on health at box <em></em> Irfan reports on science. You can read each of them at Vox Punto com. I'm Sean Ramez from our show today was produced by miles Bryan with help from Hottie, Milwaukee, Matthew Colette edited it. A FIM Shapiro engineered Laura Bullard fact-check stay safe. Don't become a statistic. Happy holidays. It's today explained

17 (24m 11s):
Support for this episode comes from ad yet. Andean is the payments platform may for today, tomorrow, and whatever comes next with Andy and single solution, it's simple to accept all kinds of payments in app, online in store touch-free and beyond, and it seamlessly adapts with your business. So keep your customers happy and your business growing with ad yet business, not boundaries, visit <em></em> dot com to learn more. That's a D Y E n.com

0 (24m 42s):
Support for the shelter day. Once again comes from sales force. Salesforce wants to help your business that use cloud software data to help companies create a digital footprint and what their Salesforce digital 360 program. You can have the Salesforce platform tailored just the way you like it. Digital 360 combines. Salesforce is industry leading cloud database to give customers as scalable data-driven and single source of truth for personalizing customer experiences. And it does it all with your trust and data security at the heart of every experience, truth, trust, heart, more relationships, more revenue, more return, more success that Salesforce digital 360 Salesforce customers are sharing their digital 360 stories in fun films, interviews, and impressive case studies go to sfdc.com/inspiring digital to see how some of your favorite brands use Salesforce.

0 (25m 40s):
Digital 360, that is SFDC dot C O slash inspiring digital to get started today.