2 (2s):
This episode is brought to you by Amazon music HD you clearly like to listen to Great podcasts. You probably have great taste in music too. But are you still streaming your favorite songs and compressed low quality.

3 (14s):
Audio

2 (15s):
Amazon music HD is a high-def music

3 (18s):
streaming service that lets you. Listen to the best music in the best

2 (21s):
possible quality. Hi, I'm

3 (23s):
Isaac and I'm a music obsessed audio

2 (25s):
producer. Join me a little later in the show as I explore why I love music with the help of Neuroscience and Amazon music HD start your 90 day free trial and hear the difference today at amazon.com music HD renews automatically new subscribers only limited time offer terms of fly.

3 (47s):
Support for the show today comes from Whirlwind the new podcast dedicated to one thing unraveling the 75-year history of Russian interference in American politics. It's obviously an urgently relevant Saga to understand as yet another chapter of covert meddling political Warfare and international anxiety unfolds. You can find Whirlwind on dapple podcasts on Spotify or wherever you listen to your podcasts. Vice president Mike Pence will debate Senator Kamala Harris tonight between them will be a pair of plexiglass Shields and thank heavens because there is a serious covid outbreak at the White House and it is spreading the first case we heard about was hope Hicks then there was President Trump and the first lady since then we found out about something like 30 more cases including most recently Stephen Miller, but also kellyanne Conway her daughter.

3 (1m 45s):
Claudia Chris Christie, there was RNC chair woman Ronnie McDaniel a few Senators the President of Notre Dame University White House Press Secretary Kaylee mcenany tested positive. So did a New York Times Reporter who covers the White House and a military aide who had close contact with the president. It is a mess. And Aaron Roop are has been covering it for Vox Aaron. Let's start with President Trump. He returned to the White House on Monday. How is he doing? Well, it seems like in one respect at least. He's pretty much. Back to normal, which is that he's posting lots of unhinged tweets. There was one point on Tuesday evening where I you know, I tallied this on Twitter, I believe it was 42 tweets or retweets in a two hours fan of time.

3 (2m 29s):
So, you know, he's right back up that kind of the record setting rates of posting that we saw before his diagnosis, which I guess in a way, you know is reassuring that at least he feels well enough to be online, you know for better or worse, I guess and unlike some tweets of his there were a few that were pretty consequential right markets are falling

2 (2m 51s):
after President Trump announced on Twitter

3 (2m 53s):
that he is ending all negotiations on any sort of coronavirus relief deal. This seems like a pretty unpopular position for Trump to stake out right before an election, you know stimulus is broadly popular with members of the public who are out of work right now who you know are struggling because of this ongoing pandemic so it Strange that right before an election Trump would take kind of a Draconian stance on that and perhaps because there was a lot of blowback and criticism then later in the evening on Twitter. He said please pass the stimulus I'm eager to sign it. And so there has been an incoherent see there and you know, I saw a lot of people commenting that wow Trump's tweets seem extra unhinged tonight, but in fact, you know for close observers of trump it kind of is unfortunately standard fare for him.

3 (3m 41s):
So I'm not sure how much we can really read in to the fact that some of these tweets are pretty Off the wall and in some instances incoherent or contradicting other things. He said unfortunately, that's just kind of Trumps brand at this point and Trump returning to the White House mere days after testing positive is is there a safety concern there? I mean, is that going to make things worse? Well, he certainly didn't return to the White House because you know, that was the medically prudent thing to do. I mean, I think pretty clearly it was to project an image of strength and to project an image of overcoming this virus

2 (4m 13s):
president obviously trying to make a very strong. A bit of strength here, but removing his mask albeit, maybe no one in front of him. It's clearly making it a statement perhaps a symbol of strength, perhaps a symbol of defiance

3 (4m 28s):
and if you can believe the statement that was released Yesterday by his physician. It sounds like you know, he's doing well in the White House and they're trying to keep him away from people. But of course there are still staff members there who do have to interact with him as part of their daily duties and there have been leaks from Secret Service agents who have been unnamed to this point and from other staff at the White House. Staff basically, you know expressing concern about the fact that the White House is such a hot spot right now and you wouldn't see these sorts of leaks. I don't think if there weren't some real concerns, but in terms of the public facing people the people who are there in political roles, of course, you know, they're saying that

2 (5m 12s):
we feel comfortable working here those of us who are still here. We are taking precautions In The West Wing. This is a serious time,

3 (5m 19s):
you know, they're still excited to come to work each day and and try to do the best Business of the American people as best they can do we know yet when he first tested positive has some of the mystery around his contraction of covid-19 been sort of cleared up. Not at all because the White House still won't say when his last negative test was and that is the key to kind of getting clear on the timeline here because that would establish a baseline of knowing when the infection might have occurred so till we have more clarity about the timeline surrounding Trump's testing. Can't know when he was infected and how many people he may have exposed before he announced on early Friday morning last week that he had tested positive.

3 (6m 4s):
Do we have any idea why the white house isn't being more forthcoming about the president's covid timeline. Well, there seems to be two possibilities here and one of them has already been confirmed by reporting from Maggie Haberman at the New York Times who last night reported that White House officials concede? Added that despite what the White House had said about Trump being the most tested person in America and being tested multiple times a day that in fact that was not the case that he was not being tested every day before he announced his positive test last Friday. The second possibility is actually even worse than that. And that is that perhaps Trump had a positive test earlier than his positive test on Thursday.

3 (6m 50s):
And for whatever reason the White House decided not to disclose. Is that perhaps they hope that his symptoms would merely be mild and that if they took distancing precautions that they could keep it contained. And so, you know, both of those possible answers to the question of why the white house isn't being more forthcoming with information look really bad, but the mere fact that they won't be more forthcoming with information about Trump's testing timeline suggest strongly that one of those two possibilities is in fact the case beyond the timeline of the President we know that a lot of the people I mentioned at the top of the show this sort of White House outbreak. They were at Amy coneybear.

3 (7m 30s):
Its nomination ceremony on Saturday is the White House contact tracing that ceremony well to the extent that they are they haven't informed reporters who were there who have tested positive they didn't inform some of the Senators who were there and tested positive to the extent that they have done contact tracing and they do claim that they have done some it's kind of useless when you don't People in who have been exposed to it and then the case especially of these reporters who have tested positive. They've had to kind of grapple with it on their own go get tested and find out that they have tested positive rather than being informed At All by the White House, so that kind of draws into question what their commitment level is to actually doing an effective contact tracing of that event and saying on this cluster for a moment to of the Senators Thom Tillis and Mike Lee are on the Senate Judiciary Committee, which It is planning to confirm Amy coneybear.

3 (8m 25s):
Its nomination. Is there any chance there's going to be a delay there. They are still going ahead as planned. It sounds like they will be held in kind of a virtual format where some of the Senators as has been the case with other hearings during the pandemic will be basically Zoom, you know, we use zoom to connect that way. There was a very telling quote that Senator Tom Cotton offered on Maria Bartiromo as Fox News show on Sunday where He pointed out. I mean, I think this was unintentionally dark, but he said there is a long and venerable tradition of ill or medically infirm Senators being wheeled into cast critical votes on the senate floor.

3 (9m 5s):
Most recently Robert Byrd in 2009. Run Johnson said he'll show up in a spacesuit. It sounds like I've already told the leadership. I'm going into Moon suit people can be fairly confident Mitch McConnell's dedicated to holding this boat. So it seems as though, you know even The the world is coming to an end Republicans are dead set on getting AC be confirmed before the election and there's been no indication that anything that's happened with this covid outbreak has shaken that resolved and that aligns with the statement President Trump gave on Monday night after he returned to the White House.

2 (9m 41s):
Don't let it dominate. Don't let it take over your lives. Don't let that happen with the greatest country in the world. We're going back with a back to work. We're going to be out front as your leader. I I had to do that. I knew there's danger to it, but I had to do it. I stood out front I led

3 (9m 59s):
what kind of message do you think this portrayal of covid is sending to the American public? Well, I think given that you know, 210 plus thousand Americans have died. Now. It's a kind of precarious in somewhat distasteful message for him in that when he frames his recovery as this success story and Triumph over a disease, you know something akin to A general on the battlefield vanquishing an enemy. I think that whenever you kind of talk about disease and those terms it's sort of dehumanizes people who have died because it's not so simple. So, you know, I think that also kind of explains why especially with seniors we've really seen Trump's support a road because you know, I don't think seniors really buy that I think, you know people want government to do what they can to protect people from diseases like this not sort of encourage them to get it.

3 (10m 53s):
The idea being that you know, you should strive to be a hero like Trump who vanquishes this thing quick break, then we're going to talk about the two very distinct reactions. People are having to the news that there's a covid outbreak at the White House. It's not explained. Support for the show Ray comes from all birds between a lingering pandemic deepening political division and the climate Crisis coming into full view.

3 (11m 37s):
We've got to take our joy wherever we can get it like in a new pair of shoes, especially if those shoes happen to be the Holy Grail of old-school lace-ups, except actually comfortable and made of Premium natural materials. I'm talking about the new wool Piper's from all birds, which are there Twist on the classic lace up sneaker. They give you that vintage inspired. I'd look that's always cool except instead of that OG design with leather uppers and petroleum-based souls. The wool Piper's are made with certified Merino wool and sugarcane based foam. All birds is committed to two things making great looking shoes that feel good and leaving the planet in better shape than they found it. That's why they print the carbon footprint of everything they make right on the product and then use sustainable practices like offsetting their carbon emissions to make the product carbon neutral that way.

3 (12m 26s):
You're never left. About the impact of your choices on the planet with all birds. You can feel confident knowing you're wearing a product that's doing right by your feet and the planet learn more about their sustainable practices and find your pair of wool Piper's at all birds.com

2 (12m 40s):
today. This is Advertiser content.

3 (12m 48s):
What's your favorite song this week? Hi, I'm Isaac Kaplan Wilner a music obsessed producer for Vox creative. I know that I love music deeply but I'm not exactly sure why so with the help of Amazon music HD. I tried to find out

2 (13m 2s):
music feels like you're entering a different realm and that's that's around Beyond you

3 (13m 10s):
that's Jessica Dobson guitarist and lead singer of Seattle band deep-sea.

2 (13m 14s):
Ivor and it matters to me because I know that it

3 (13m 17s):
affects people in ways that I couldn't imagine

2 (13m 21s):
there are places in our hearts that other things can't access and I know that music can do that music can reliably put us

3 (13m 33s):
into a mood On a par with certain Drugs That's neuro scientist and musician Daniel J. Levitin author

2 (13m 41s):
of this is your brain on

3 (13m 42s):
music fast music. Tends to

2 (13m 45s):
Goose the adrenaline system slow music tends to do the opposite happy music can release dopamine and serotonin. We can see distinct neurochemical changes in response to different kinds of

3 (13m 58s):
music. So music isn't

2 (13m 60s):
just something we love it's a central part of who we

3 (14m 3s):
are and it can help us feel better and do better in our daily lives step up to uncompressed Pure music that allows us to hear and

2 (14m 11s):
feel more with Amazon music HD start. 90 day free trial and hear the difference today at amazon.com music HD news automatically new subscribers only limited time offer terms applied.

3 (14m 29s):
Seagal Samuel you're the host of fox is future perfect podcast. We've been talking a lot about the president and nearly everyone in his orbit getting covid-19, but we haven't really talked about the fact that this is sort of like historical moment that a president is affected this way during a global pandemic that he is mocked and you know, what exactly has the reaction been in the country? Well, it's been a mix I

2 (14m 59s):
Did have a lot of people wishing him. Well, of

3 (15m 1s):
course best wishes to the president United States the first lady

2 (15m 6s):
people like Obama Joe Biden my prayers continue to be with the president and first lady for their health and safety Canadian Prime Minister. Justin Trudeau said his well wishes for the couple. I think Jake Tapper did as well.

3 (15m 18s):
Everyone here at the lead is hoping for a full and speedy recovery for President Trump first lady Melania Trump, but we must

2 (15m 26s):
acknowledge, but then there was also everyone else else who had different feelings.

3 (15m 32s):
What did everyone else do Segal?

2 (15m 35s):
He had it coming. There were lots of people who took to Twitter or other online platforms and were borderline gleeful about the president's covid

3 (15m 49s):
diagnosis. I don't feel bad for him since his dismissal of the buyers is directly responsible for the deaths of two hundred and eight thousand people.

2 (15m 55s):
I would say Coronavirus Stand back and stand by. I hope you guys I hope you fucking dies. Karma came to teach you a lesson so much so that Twitter Facebook Tick Tock all had to remind their users that it's not allowed to wish for someone to die on those social media

3 (16m 15s):
platforms. You're not allowed to wish people death on social media. Just that happen all the time on social media

2 (16m 21s):
death threats are common 49ers quarterback, Colin Kaepernick says, he's receiving death threats, and of course I get death threats. All the time. He's a lot of the threats on you know in social media. Yeah. So a lot of people actually made this objection including representative Alexandria Ocasio Cortez and representative Rashida Talib noting that a lot of people especially women of color routinely get death wishes on Twitter and the platform doesn't really seem to care about that. So a lot of people were complaining about double standards there.

3 (16m 55s):
I imagine it was a lot of randoms and I certainly saw some like comedians basking in the news, but whether any like high-profile suit-and-tie types expressing this kind of serves you right sentiment

2 (17m 7s):
you did have people like Mary Trump the president's own nice tweeting. I reserve my sympathy empathy and despair for those who are sick and for those who have died because they were misled lied to or ignored. We're a fucking mask hashtag

3 (17m 23s):
vote damn.

2 (17m 24s):
Then you have other people who were kind of expressing a Sentiment but a little bit differently. For example, Yolanda pierce the dean of Howard University's Divinity School really just straight-up refused to engage in this sort of pro forma. Yeah. I wish you well best wishes. She tweeted. I will not perform false politeness in the presence of

3 (17m 47s):
evil. Hmm. But there is a middle ground here right between we're wishing you well, and you know, I won't be polite in the presence of evil.

2 (17m 57s):
Yeah, so I think there's a lot of people who are kind of feeling a little bit maybe like they're hoping Trump doesn't recover but then they also feel guilty about that. Good evening

3 (18m 9s):
everyone welcome Weekend Update. I'm Michael Che I'm Colin

2 (18m 11s):
Jost. I think you if you caught SNL's we can update after we heard about Trump's diagnosis.

3 (18m 17s):
This news was a lot for us to process a day before we came back on the air after four months off

2 (18m 23s):
good comedians. There seemed a little conflicted and kind of Like they didn't really fully know how to handle this situation. Okay. Look this is weird because a lot of people on

3 (18m 35s):
both sides are saying there's nothing funny about Trump being hospitalized with coronavirus, even though he mocked the safety precautions for the coronavirus and those people are obviously wrong.

2 (18m 48s):
There's a lot funny about this maybe not from a moral standpoint, but mathematically if you were constructing a joke, and I think that's best. Intimate you've been seeing a lot of people over the past few days where they're experiencing a lot of schadenfreude this feeling of Joy at another person's this Fortune, which after we feel that we often afterwards feel this kind of aftertaste of Shame.

3 (19m 12s):
Well you write a lot about philosophy here at vaux Seagal. How should we think about schadenfreude? Is it? Okay is it ever? Okay. Is it okay when some guy cuts you off and then 20 minutes later. You see that he got in a fender bender to be like Ha you have always coming to

2 (19m 28s):
you Sean. Do you want to take a little trip down? Moral philosophy Memory

3 (19m 33s):
Lane do I I don't go anywhere anymore.

2 (19m 36s):
Okay, here we go. So first of all, you had a lot of morals Lost first thing that schadenfreude is always a moral failing period like you had Arthur schopenhauer German philosopher in the 19th century saying there is no more infallible sign of a thoroughly bad heart and profound moral worthlessness than an inclination to a Shear a nun disguise malignant Joy of this kind. But other people thought differently you had like the French essayist Charles baudelaire saying no, I think schadenfreude is rooted actually in a sense of superiority.

2 (20m 20s):
So what you're taking Delight in when you see the other person suffer is the sense that you're smarter and better than them. He Compares it to seeing a guy fall and slip and fall on the ice. I don't follow. Why don't I walk straight I do my foot step is Eddie and assured mine is And it makes you feel all hoity-toity because you feel like you would never slip and fall and you're super coordinated. Then you had Michelle de montaigne another philosopher 16th century saying no schadenfreude is really about our own vulnerability when you're happy because you see someone else gets sick what you're really happy about is realizing that you are safe.

2 (21m 6s):
You're not sick and then there's just one other philosopher. I want to point out here because he had it. Only different way of understanding this that's Rene Descartes. He said we feel hatred for the evil and joy at seeing it in the person who deserves it. This is about a sense of justice. There is a certain pleasure in seeing Justice triumphs. So when you see someone act poorly and you experience some schadenfreude, it could be morally permissible because you're actually just happy that Justice is being served. left And where does that leave us with Trump in particular?

2 (21m 49s):
Yeah, I think in the case of trump. It's likely that people are feeling a mix of all those feelings at the philosophers talk about all at once. So I think people are feeling the schadenfreude rooted in superiority in their own vulnerability maybe a little bit in malevolence to I hope he dies. I hope you fucking die and I think there are people who are feeling this pleasure of seeing Justice. Curved or fairness? You know, we have this president whose actions have been partly responsible for the deaths of so many people and now he himself is sick with the very virus that he downplayed. I tend to little bit more towards virtue ethics which would say it's not a great idea to wish suffering or death on other people not necessarily because that's going to harm them.

2 (22m 37s):
Like if I make a wish that's all I'm actually going to harm Trump, but it might harm me as a moral being because it might might sort of debase me and potentially chip away at my capacity for empathy in the long-term and I don't want to do that to myself.

3 (23m 2s):
The go. Thanks for the crash course in

2 (23m 4s):
Morality. Yay. Moral philosophy Seagal Samuel is one of the voices

3 (23m 14s):
you'll here hosting the latest season of Fox's future perfect podcast. It's all about the moral case against factory-farmed meet. You can find it wherever you're listening to this right now. This is today explained. I'm Sean Rama's from the rest of the team includes. No MM hassenfeld to Lima Shaman al-saadi moods 80 and we'll

2 (23m 33s):
read extra help this week from bird Pinkerton and Cecilia lay

3 (23m 37s):
a film Shapiro is a shows engineer gold Arthur is the show supervising producer and Liz Kelly Nelson is boxes

2 (23m 44s):
editorial director of podcasts music

3 (23m 46s):
from no MM and the Mysterious brake master cylinder today explained as part of the VOX media podcast

2 (23m 52s):
Network.

3 (24m 9s):
HBO Max brings all of HBO to your fingertips plus an epic list of new Max Originals whether you're into animation classic movies or binge worthy series HBO Max has suggested collections are curated by real humans not robots. So you find the right thing to

2 (24m 25s):
watch every time

3 (24m 27s):
with thousands of options for you. And the family to choose from is the streaming

2 (24m 31s):
platform of your dreams HBO Max or

3 (24m 35s):
HBO leads so much. more start streaming now at HBO

2 (24m 39s):
Max.com