3 (5s):
It's Thursday, April 2nd 2020 and this month is already looking like it's going to be tougher than March. I'm Sean Rama's from and this is your coronavirus update from today explained. today we got news that 6.6 million Americans filed for unemployment last week that brings the total number to 10 million Americans who have lost their jobs in just the last two weeks much more detail on that in today's episode the loss of jobs in America also means the loss of health insurance according to an analysis of state and federal data from the economic policy Institute, roughly, 3.5 million Americans likely lost their health insurance in the past two weeks and Of course scary because not only are we in the middle of a global pandemic but the United States has the most cases of covid-19 in the world something like 250,000.

3 (1m 1s):
We have doubled the number of confirmed cases in Italy in better news. Florida is finally taking this seriously, the governor there ordered residents to stay at home on Wednesday shortly after the number of confirmed covid-19 cases their jumped by more than a thousand in a single 24-hour period Florida now has over Thousand confirmed cases nearly 40 of these United States have now issued stay-at-home notices Texas is the biggest hold out there about 4,000 confirmed covid-19 cases there. Meanwhile in New York where this is still just the worst the state to run out of ventilators in six days. According to the New York Times. The state has close to a hundred thousand confirmed cases 13 thousand or so have been hospitalized and over 3,000 are in intensive care.

3 (1m 47s):
The governor there says that buying more ventilators has been With so much competition around the country and the world without them doctors will be left making some very tough decisions. From tough decisions to a good one. The Democratic National Convention has been postponed. It was going to be July in Milwaukee now, maybe August remember the Joe and Bernie show. I don't you are emailing us coronavirus questions to today explain at vox.com. Trust me that we see you even if we don't get to reply we see your tweets at today explained and a dramas firm. We hear your voice mails at two. Oh two six eight eight five nine four four. Thank you for keeping in touch even from far away.

3 (2m 40s):
Matthew Iglesias I get a lot of push notifications about this crisis that were in and they seldom scare me. But today I got a few that made me feel fear for this country. We got some shocking numbers. What were they so initial unemployment claims for the week that ended on March 28th came out and it was off-the-charts insane 6.6 million new people filed for unemployment benefits. That was

1 (3m 6s):
But

3 (3m 6s):
what we saw in the previous week and that previous week was itself a record these newest members. They are 10 times the biggest figure that we've seen outside of the context of March 20 20. So a situation that looked incredibly bad a week ago is getting worse at a really frightening pace. So these are historic numbers just one week after we got historic numbers and this historic number is exponentially bigger than that last one. Yeah. I mean we've had if you take these at face s value 10 million job losses over two weeks in March that's equivalent to the first six months of the Great Recession just packed into a single two-week period we have had high unemployment in the past, but we have never had this kind of incredibly rapid increase and of course you see it.

3 (3m 53s):
I mean if you walk around in DC for Approved recreational activities, you see like tons of stores are closed which you know, we know it's what people have been putting out there, but it means that people Are losing their jobs. They're losing them really really really fast and we've never seen anything remotely like this in past recessions. Now you pay attention to numbers like these most people are just trying to figure out how to live their lives in this moment did people expect this huge jump in the unemployment numbers just from the historic numbers. We got last week, you know people expected a big number and they tried to use some inferences based on Google searches and state-level data.

3 (4m 36s):
And what I was ready for last night, you know, I was I was getting ready to cover this story Thursday morning and I was prepared for maybe 5 million initial claims, which would have been crazy. That would have been an all-time record. I was expecting the worst figures ever and we got something worse than what I was expecting and the exact same thing happened the previous week. We had been looking at an estimate from Goldman Sachs that said there might be two and a quarter million initial claims. That's really bad. That would be much worse than Thing that happened before instead. We got over three million. So people are expecting extremely rapid deterioration in the economy and it keeps deteriorating faster than we expect is part of the issue here that the counts that were getting aren't the full picture.

3 (5m 23s):
Is that what's going on? So it's gonna get worse every week as as the picture becomes clearer. I mean, that's an alarming possibility here reports. You hear anecdotes. Are that phone lines it stayed. Unemployment offices have been jammed websites have crashed. So it is very possible that there are hundreds of thousands of people who have been trying to file claims but haven't succeeded in doing so yet and that we're going to see those numbers come online in the next week or two. The other thing to keep in mind is that you know, March 28th was not that long ago, but in coronavirus crisis terms like everyday is like a lifetime and a lot of large Southern States, Florida and, Georgia.

3 (6m 6s):
Jen particular only adopted new shut down measures after that window closed. So there's plenty of more places for this economic tidal wave to hit once we get next week's data. And then the thing you really have to worry about is secondary and tertiary consequences because we assume that we're looking right now at people who've lost their jobs because their businesses shut down specifically because of the virus, but then when people lose their jobs they have US money when people hear these terrifying headlines about Job losses they spend less money so lots of companies that are still operating right you can go online today and you can buy all kinds of durable goods, right like you could order a chair you could order a computer you could get a suit made by whatever custom Fabricators, like there's a lot of stuff for sale that has not been impacted by the virus, but if millions of people lose their jobs, they're not going to buy furniture.

3 (7m 5s):
They're not going to buy Shooters and we're going to see more companies start to get hurt and you know sort of a recession that builds on itself totally separately from the Public Health crisis. We're looking at so last week's numbers were three million and people were shocked. This week's numbers are 6 million and we are even more shocked. Should we be bracing for 12 million next week? I mean and and how long does this continue? I don't think we will see that kind of growth. Turn because of the virus we've gotten used to thinking and exponential terms. The labor market normally doesn't work like that, but we could see easily another number in the millions of which we've never had before March, right?

3 (7m 50s):
So even if this slows even if it's slow substantially, we're still gonna be looking at a velocity that we have no experience with and we're still going to have the question of our people even successfully getting through in these systems. It's a crazy to me that Congress has gone out of Town until April 20th, you think about like where we going to be six or seven weeks from now, like what's going to be left? And it's it's a mind-boggling right? I mean you think okay like we will find a bottom somewhere, but the economy doesn't necessarily work like that. The more people who lose their jobs the more at risk everybody else is we all know restaurants in our communities or people who work in Food Service who've lost their jobs.

3 (8m 34s):
We also know other people who are hanging on. Trying to do curbside take out trying to do delivery and you know good for them. God Bless. But if so many people lose their jobs that they can't afford takeout meals or just Splurge like that. We're going to see more shutdowns even in that industry. We're seeing the advertising Market in the industry. We work in looking pretty scary unless we can do something to actually put a floor under the economy. It can keep falling and falling and falling for a really long time.

1 (9m 6s):
My name is Ben covid re I was an IT project manager for an office space company in New York City and I was laid off along with about 40 percent of our staff at the end of last week. I logged onto the unemployment website to try and file immediately for unemployment. But I found out that the date that you have to file for unemployment in New York is based upon the first letter of your last name. I assume that was because they are inundated with calls because of the current crisis. Once I completed the application I had to call in to complete and confirm all of my info. So I got the phone number from the website and I called in one in about 10 calls that I placed to the unemployment office actually connected and got me to the menu the other 90% of the dials that I placed resulted in either immediate call failure or an error message from Verizon telling me my call cannot be completed.

1 (10m 6s):
So I probably called about several hundred times over the course of a couple of days when you did get through to a menu. You had to enter your social security number and a PIN number that you created online. However, once you completed the social security number and pin you got an automatic recording that said we are experiencing a high call volume. Please call back this week and then it just disconnected. So the only thing to do was to Redial and of course with only one in ten calls even getting through to the menu is the timely process to try and get through. So I kept dialing and dialing and I kept filling out my social security number my PIN number and just resulting every time in the same.

1 (10m 52s):
We are experiencing high call volume. Please call back this week disconnect. One time I got lucky I entered my social security number my PIN number and instead of getting disconnected on I got a new message that said thank you for calling. Your estimated wait time is 40 to 45 minutes. And then I was put on hold something that had never happened before so I sat on hold and when I reached about 40 to 42 minutes on hold it disconnected. That was obviously extremely frustrating and I was ready to throw my phone out the window at that point. So I was talking to a friend of mine who is also let go from my company. There's a bunch of us actually on an alumni slack Channel.

1 (11m 33s):
There are people who have called over a thousand times and have not been able to get through to a human being yet. So I was talking to one friend of mine and I told him that I got through to be on hold and then I got disconnected a little bit later in the day. He called me and when I picked up he had gotten through. And he then asked the representative if he could conference in his friend IE myself to complete my application and to my surprise. She said yes, so my friend conference me into his existing call with a representative from the New York State unemployment office and she was okay with it. She let me go through the process of confirming my information.

1 (12m 15s):
She gave me a warning that my friend who was still conferenced in on the phone was going to be able to hear my social security. E number and personal information I said I didn't mind and she was able to complete my application and it saved me an immense amount of time, you know kudos to that individual who was working and understood the trouble that a lot of people are going through right now. It was a pretty terrible process trying to get through you have to understand the strain that the system is under with millions of people in the same boat that I am in unfortunately. So I try to temper my temper for lack of a better term but it's extremely frustrating.

1 (12m 55s):
You know, I've seen screenshots again in that alumni slack channel of people, you know, posting pictures of their recent call history and it's the unemployment office filling up the entire screen with hundreds and as of calls, so I'm extremely fortunate that. I didn't quite make it to four digits. I was only in the triple digits number of calls, but I can't even imagine what it's been like for a lot of other people who have you know, been stuck at home, you know under a quarantine having nothing to do but hoping to get lucky and reach a person at the unemployment office.

3 (13m 40s):
Congress is out of the office right now, but luckily Matthew Iglesias has a plan to get us out of this mess and he'll share it with you for free after the break. I'm Sean ramas firm and this is today explained. Hey, it's Kara Swisher. You may know me as the only person who looks cool wearing sunglasses indoors. But in my spare time, I host a podcast called Rico decode every week. We talk about power change in the people. You need to know around Tech and Beyond some of my recent guests include Edward Snowden Megan Rapinoe and the cast of The L Word which was a huge thrill for me. If any of these sound interesting to you, you should listen them now on Rico decode subscribe to the show for free on Apple podcast or in your favorite podcast app to be the first to hear new interviews every.

1 (14m 28s):
weak

3 (14m 33s):
Everybody I'm nilay Patel. I'm the editor-in-chief of The Verge. I'm also the host of the verge's flagship podcast The Verge cast at The Verge recover Tech science culture policy in how all of that affects each other right now and in the near future The Verge has the same thing in audio form. So every Friday can listen to the verge's reporters and editors break down the biggest stories in Tech with the biggest impact from the antitrust debate to the ongoing Wars between streaming services to whether or not your phone needs to fold in half and along with that Friday broadcast every Tuesday. I talked to some the most influential names and companies in the

1 (15m 2s):
We're

3 (15m 2s):
tech industry some recent people. I've talked to are AMD CEO. Dr. Lisa Sue Patrick Spence the CEO of Sonos Yves, Behar Panos Panay Rick austral. Oh and a wiener Neil Young. Listen And subscribe to The Virtue has to get impactful Tech journalism in your podcast feed every Tuesday and Friday direct from The Verge. Matthew wrote a piece recently that said that we as a country need a wartime style mobilization to get out of this crisis last week Congress passed its big phase three stimulus package two trillion dollars unprecedented in the modern era is that the kind of mobilization you're talking about.

3 (15m 46s):
It's good that they did that but it's not nearly good

1 (15m 49s):
enough.

3 (15m 51s):
So they pass that bill the stock market went up in response. A number of other indicators that the bond market inflation expectations all showed progress as a result of that Bell. Unfortunately Congress brain is like they did a big thing the response to it was positive and then they left town for a series of weeks. But if you look at all of those indicators that were positive they didn't get us back to where we want to be with stocks with interest rates with inflation expectations. So the real lesson they should have taken from the success of that two trillion. Ian package is they ought to try another 2 trillion and see where we are, maybe two trillion more two trillion on top of that like when you're working on a problem of large, but unknown scope you got to keep trying and then you got to look and you got to reassess and if that's not what they did so you drew up a vision for congress because they're not doing their jobs right now.

3 (16m 48s):
What do you think they should be doing? Yeah. So I mean, I think there's three buckets of activity that Congress needs to look at why Is just putting money into people's hands so that they have cash to spend even more money. Yes. The second is looking at mobilizing industries that do relevant things. That's the ventilators that we've talked about a lot. It's the n95 respirators and other personal protective equipment that Healthcare professionals need but it's also stuff that regular people could use, you know, things like disposable surgical masks gloves hand sanitizer. Lysol wipes all kinds of things where if you go online or you go to your store. Or you're going to see shortages right? Now those things we could be a need to be producing more and the government should be leading that effort.

3 (17m 32s):
The last thing is supporting state and local governments financially because we are at a big risk of seeing a sort of secondary and tertiary economic collapse as state governments need to start laying people off and cutting services. Okay. Well, let's go through the three of them starting with just putting more money in people's hands now Congress just did that and they did it in a historic way. But you're saying that's not enough they need to do more of it. Yeah, I mean 1200 dollar checks is nice and the unemployment benefits to people who've lost their jobs is very important. But you know people could use more money there are lots of goods and services that remain for sale today you can get Get food delivered to your house.

3 (18m 18s):
You can get takeout you can buy different things at the grocery store. You can order a new computer. You can make a remote appointment with a therapist. You can do a telemedicine consultation with a doctor who doesn't specialize in coronavirus, you could subscribe to extra streaming services, right and a lot of the discourse around this has been dominated by experts which is good. But people who are in relatively privileged positions in life, and they're sort of Maine. Personal experience of the economic situation is oh, I might like to go out to eat with my friends, but I can't because of social distancing but you gotta think about typical people who are just cash constrained all the time in their ability to get takeout food in their ability to just buy durable goods for the house.

3 (19m 5s):
And if we have more money and more people's hands those industries that are still functioning can function better as opposed to a situation where everybody gets poorer and then nobody can buy things and In industries that aren't impacted by the crisis start to collapse. Well, let's talk about those empty shelves and the things people really want I haven't seen toilet paper at the grocery store. I go to in weeks. Luckily. I have a stash because Terry next door invited us to Costco. Once last September, what could the government do to fix this? So right now? We have a lot of government efforts to prevent price gouging right because we're trying to manage shortages and that's good.

3 (19m 45s):
I mean you don't want to Shortages managed poorly but you would really like to see is addressing the shortages and that means identifying key Commodities. I would say hand sanitizers surgical style masks gloves disinfecting wipes other things like that and say look we are going to guarantee purchase at a slightly elevated price now like a crazy like 7,000 percent markup, but like yeah, you can get 15% higher prices than you normally would or hand sanitizer and the government will buy it if you can sell it to stores and that is what gives companies the incentive to run the factory 24 hours a day right to actually increase production because the problem with doing everything on a price control basis is that ramping up is expensive.

3 (20m 37s):
We've got a number of stories. I've seen them locally and nationally of distilleries, you know places that make booze saying we're going to make hand sanitizer because You use alcohol in both cocktails and cleaning the equipment. But often what they're doing is sort of a stunt where they're making it and they're giving it away which is great. It's a great charitable Endeavor, but to really go on a large scale you need to mobilize greed and the profit motive you need people to be saying. Yes. I am going to undertake the expense of retooling my Distillery to make hand sanitizer. I am going to hire some of the people who have recently lost their jobs to work extra shifts so that we can make more of this sent iser and to do that you do need to offer a premium over regular prices, but then it can be okay because the government can pay the premium right instead of talking about protecting people from price increases.

3 (21m 33s):
We should just be spending the money to get what it takes. It feels like we've been talking about initiatives the federal government could take this far, but your third point was that we need to bolster state and local governments to help them help people to Engine. Yeah, absolutely. I because right now you are looking at a real crisis in state and local government finances a lot of state and local governments rely very heavily in retail sales taxes, most of them put extra sort of taxes on restaurant meals or at alcohol that's sold which makes a lot of sense for sort of tax Theory reasons, but it means their revenue is getting hammered at the same time. They have additional expenses right governments that are trying to do the right thing are trying to deliver food to kids who normally get School meals.

3 (22m 18s):
They have police officers working extra shifts and hazardous conditions. They are trying to disinfect their buses and their metros. They're doing stuff like that. But really soon they're going to hit the wall and they're going to have to start furloughing workers or laying people off. We saw this during the Great Recession of 2008-2009 were the federal government did a trillion dollars in stimulus, but more than a hundred percent of that was offset by state and local governments doing cutbacks new. We know is in this incredible emergency right now and earlier this week. They passed a budget that's going to cut Medicaid because they have no choice only the federal government operates free of budget constraint and can just sort of hand out huge buckets of cash to State and local governments.

3 (23m 4s):
So they can keep providing essential services. So the federal government right now needs to show up people needs to shore up business needs to shore up state and local governments. It basically needs to shore up everything. Can we afford to engage in a stimulus at this level? I mean, I'm sure Congress passed the two trillion dollar thing inside like well, we've never done something like that before. Let's go back to our families and practice safe social distancing or whatever. Was that a terrible mistake. I mean, I think you have to ask can we afford to not do this stuff? Can we afford to not mobilize Foley? Can we afford to have healthy able-bodied people?

3 (23m 47s):
At home losing income becoming depressed when they could be making things that are useful to fighting this virus and you know, I use the analogy of wartime which a lot of people have thrown around sort of loosely, but I think we should take fairly literally during World War II the Federal Reserve and other central banks around the world it coordinated very directly with the treasury to essentially print money and cover the costs of things to ensure. Sure that if we lost a battle it would be because we didn't have enough tank. So we didn't have enough planes now because we didn't have enough money. Right what matters in a wartime mobilization is what are the actual resources of your country?

3 (24m 30s):
We are not out of textile factories. We are not out of distilleries. We are not out of people who are capable of working in those places. It does seem like we are out of ventilators and n95 respirators and we need to do the work to increase our capacity to produce those things but in all Of these cases. It's the real resources that matter more than money. And we need a central bank that is willing to say that the FED has done a lot of stuff dramatic kinds of things basically to make sure that anybody who wants a loan can get one at a cheap interest rate, and that's fantastic, but they need to say really clearly that it does not matter how much debt the federal government takes on.

3 (25m 10s):
They will provide that Infinite Back stop until this crisis is past and I guess just to be clear to people How do we get the money to pay for all of this stuff? How do we get the two trillion to to fund that stimulus sure so that the technical way that this happens is right now Congress spends money and the treasury Department sells bonds at auction and those bonds carry an interest rate. And then the FED has said recently that it will go buy bonds. So essentially they create money out of thin air and use it to purchase bonds and those bonds Finance the federal government, so That's what they're doing. That's correct. That's the appropriate thing to do.

3 (25m 50s):
What I'm calling for is a clear statement from the fed. This is it doesn't matter how much Congress spends that if they go to 4 trillion if they go to 10 trillion, whatever they want to do the FED will buy up all those bonds, right so that there is a guarantee that they will be able to sell them that there will be a market and in essence they would be quote unquote printing money. They don't actually print anything. It's just all done on computers, but you know pure Financial constraints should not be what limits us here. Is it fair to say what you're talking about is is sort of printing money against faith in the United States.

3 (26m 32s):
Yeah, I mean like again, you know, you look at something like I was taking my son to Old Civil War battlefield because I was trying to find some place that will be empty and one thing that happened. There is the confederate government they printed money to finance their war effort and it was fine until it became clear that they were going to lose at that point their money. Stall value if people think that the virus is going to crush the American economy and American society then our money will become worthless. But printing too much is not going to do that as long as we have confidence that we are going to beat this thing and I fully believe that we can I mean we have the scientific resources. We have the production resources.

3 (27m 13s):
What we need is to actually do the work just as we have in other moments of great National crisis, worst case scenario. If we look back two years from now and we say the really bad thing that happened in the fall and winter of 2020 is that prices went up for five percent because we printed too much that would be an incredible success story. Right? What we are worried about now is large-scale deaths and mass unemployment. If we can avoid those Fates at the cost of a little bit of inflation, that would be an incredible success right now though. We're looking at both and it's it's terrified.