0 (0s):
Great news guys. Congress is doing another bipartisanship this time. It's about the war in Iraq. On the occasion of the 20 year anniversary of the invasion, the US Senate is pushing a bill that will end the authorization for war there.

2 (19s):
Congress has shi its responsibility to our troops For more than 20 years since passing these A u mfs, those in power have stretched and skewed their original intent.

0 (29s):
The original intent was to allow the United States to go to war against Iraq. But 20 years later, Iraq's pretty much our ally.

3 (37s):
I've said it before and I'll say it again, every year we keep these a U MFS on the books is just another chance for future administrations to abuse or misuse them beyond their original intent.

0 (52s):
Nearly every president we've had since this war began in 2003, has ended the war in Iraq and it's still not really over. So last week, today explained when down to South by Southwest in Austin, Texas, to remind people what exactly this war was. And we're gonna bring you that live show today. It's a little bit of a different vibe and there's some strong language, but we hope you'll listen and we hope you'll remember along with us.

4 (1m 24s):
Have you heard about the feud between Selena Gomez and Hailey Bieber?

5 (1m 29s):
I was actively scrolling away from every video that was related to Hailey or Selena or Justin. And I was still getting served video after video after video about it. So at some point, yeah, you're gonna get dragged into whatever drama is happening inside of that app, whether you like it or

4 (1m 47s):
Not, TikTok and celebrities and why we can't escape their drama. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast,

0 (2m 7s):
It's today explained. I'm Sean Ramas firm and we are live from South by Southwest in Austin, Texas. On the 13th of March, 2023. We were, we were supposed to be here three years ago in March, but the whole event got canceled, not just our session, every single one of them. And that's when I knew canceled culture was outta control. We are very happy South by Southwest is back and we are very grateful to be here. It's a special occasion and we wanna take that for granted. We wanted to use this occasion to talk about something meaningful. So today I'm gonna talk to y'all about the Iraq War, not the first one, the sequel Iraq two, Bush two, which might be a little random, right?

0 (2m 50s):
This is today explained, it's in the Iraq War. And like three presidents ago, it was Afghanistan that ended just recently, at least we could talk about, about Afghanistan. Plus, there's a whole other war going on right now, right? One that everyone's focused on, one that we talk about on the show all the time. So why use this occasion to talk about a rock? I've got a few reasons. First, it was 20 years ago this month that this war began. Second, as much as we'd like to think that this war is like a distant memory, it's not quite that. A few thousand US troops are still there. Just last week, secretary of Defense, Lloyd Austin, took a trip to Iraq, tell the country that those troops were not going anywhere anytime soon.

0 (3m 32s):
Believe it or not, the Iraq War got as many mentions as abortion did at this year's State of the Union. Abortion for obvious reasons, but Iraq, because it turns out a lot of Iraqi veterans are still suffering from exposure to toxic burn pits. And that's another reason I wanna talk about Iraq today. I think for veterans this war isn't over. And for Iraqis, this war certainly isn't over. And since it isn't over yet, I think it's really important that we remember. But I'm not convinced we do. I had a feeling before we really jumped into production on this live show that a lot of Americans would have no recollection of why we went and today explain producer Heidi Ma Wadi hit the streets of Dallas, Texas, not far from where he lives.

0 (4m 16s):
To test my hypothesis.

6 (4m 19s):
Do you remember why we went to War Rock

7 (4m 22s):
That? I don't,

0 (4m 25s):
I'm sad to report back that I was right.

8 (4m 32s):
No, I don't remember the reasons to that we were going to war. I just remember feeling sad when I heard about the, when they broadcasted on the news that morning.

9 (4m 43s):
I wanna say it may be attached to nine 11, I'm not sure, but I wanna say that that's my thinking.

10 (4m 50s):
Yeah, I believe that was 2001, right? I remember after September 11, you know, we had went over there cuz the, you know, the issue with the terrorist attack and all of that, and then issue over the oil and all of that. So briefly, yeah, I do remember,

5 (5m 5s):
I don't know, I, I guess I remember, like I, I would've just said oil. I, I think like now, I, I don't think I, I could really see her and tell you truly the, the, the on paper reason why I would at this point tell you I would assume oil, that they stayed oil. That's always my assumption. Oil.

11 (5m 22s):
Yeah, I think Gaddafi had something to do with it, but I might be wrong. I might be thinking of something else. But there was an element that dealt with either Iraq or Pakistan, one of the two countries where either other helping hide like people that actually helped plan the attack. And that's what actually kept it going. If I'm not mistaken,

0 (5m 52s):
I don't blame those individuals for not really knowing what happened. Most of the people Hadie spoke with were just kids. When this war started 20 years ago, and I can relate, I was 18. It was remarkably easy at the time to go about your life as if this war just wasn't happening. Since this war began in 2003, I've gone to like three schools, had like two dozen jobs and lived in four states and the District of Columbia. And in all that time and life, I can only recall one person I knew whose life was really impacted by this war. His name was Ricky Slum. Ricky and I went to high school together, sagas High school, Santa Clarita, California. It's best known today for being the site of a mass shooting in November, 2019.

0 (6m 35s):
When I visit for the holidays, I still see saga strong signs everywhere. Back when me and Ricky went to school there, it wasn't really known for much of anything. It was the kind of place where you could go cause a stirred just for being a guy wearing a hot pink polo. And I know this because one day in 2001, I wore a hot pink polo to sagas high school. The only interaction I ever had with Ricky Slum was on that day. My friends and I headed the sagas goodwill a few days earlier. And I had found this popin ping polo that felt like a steal at two or three bucks. I waited a few days before I wore it to school. I didn't wanna seem him too thirsty. And on the big day, the same friends and I were all hanging out in the high school quad between classes.

0 (7m 19s):
And Ricky was across the quad with his friends. And they did not like my hot pink polo. Or maybe they did, but they felt threatened by it. Either way, they were all pointing and laughing from across the quad. And I guess that wasn't enough, because then one of them yelled in my direction, time stopped. I didn't know the guys yelling, but all my friends did. They didn't think it was Ricky who yelled it. They thought it was one of his buddies. But it must have struck a chord because I distinctly remember one of my friends saying to me, you shouldn't have worn that shirt to school today, man. And I was shocked in just a few years, it would be cooler than cool to be a boy in a hot pink polo.

0 (8m 1s):
Andre three K would hold a smoking hot pink pistol on the cover of the love below. Kanye would rock a pink polo in the All falls down video. All the skater brands that were so popular at sagas high school would embrace hot pink. But on this particular day at sagas high fall semester 2001, I was ahead of my time and all alone. That interaction in the quad that day, as far as I know, was the only time it occurred to Ricky Slum that I existed. But Ricky did come over to my house one time. It was on the night of my 18th birthday, just a week before the United States invaded Iraq. It was a Friday night, and we almost certainly played this song by slick shoes on the boombox.

12 (8m 45s):
It's right, you wanna hang out with your

0 (8m 55s):
Still slaps. I somehow caught my parents into leaving town and letting me throw, throw a big old house party that night. And I somehow procured a lot of alcohol, which was a pretty big deal when you were 18 years old in sagas, California in 2003, there was a war going on in Afghanistan. Another one was clearly about to start. But I was 18 years old in a finely manicured southern California suburb and felt totally invincible. It was gonna be a great night. It's right. I didn't invite him, but Ricky showed up. Apparently my buddy John's girlfriend, Missy invited him. But I didn't see Ricky come in. One of my classmates had had one too many and needed some moral support while he was familiarizing himself with the porcelain upstairs.

0 (9m 39s):
But downstairs, things were getting uncomfortable.

13 (9m 42s):
So I was drinking that night. So I'll try to remember as much as I can about it.

0 (9m 47s):
My friend William witnessed Ricky Roland with an entire crew of guys who looked really out of place at my house.

13 (9m 55s):
A group of people showed up that were like skinheads, but not like British, like sky anti-racist skinheads. These were like, not like skinny little skinheads. They were like, you know, gym rat, like meathead, skinhead. Like, they just showed up and people started talking about it.

0 (10m 19s):
Everyone coexisted for a minute without the house burning down. But pretty quickly someone decided this could only end badly and took ownership of the situation.

13 (10m 29s):
Somebody went up to them and they were like, yo, it's not cool for you to be here. And tried to kick him out of the party.

0 (10m 36s):
And remarkably, Ricky and his prematurely bald friends decided to go. But they took some souvenirs on their way out the door.

13 (10m 44s):
They grabbed a bunch of 12 packs from the party and tried to steal a bunch of beer.

0 (10m 49s):
William and another friend Chris followed Ricky and his friends outside to defend the integrity of our surveys. Us

13 (10m 58s):
Like, oh no, we're not gonna let these guys steal stuff from us. And went outside. And I think I went out with Chris to be like, well, something happens. I guess I'll be there as if I was gonna do anything but like to like back him up or something. And then as they were getting in their car, Chris tried to grab the 12 pack from them and one of 'em grabbed a beer out of the 12 pack and threw it and hit Chris in the face. And then, you know, mayhem or whatever. They started getting aggressive. I think that I was trying to be like, Hey man, let's, let's, let's be cool.

13 (11m 38s):
Like, let's chill out. I don't, it's like really hard to remember because in that scuffle, I got punched in the face and I think I got knocked out. So like I vaguely remember, you know, waking up sort of on the ground and somebody giving me like something to put on my face.

0 (11m 59s):
I couldn't believe what Ricky and his friends had done to William. It looked like they'd given him broken nose, but I should have known because Ricky had a bit of a reputation and most of the people at that party were familiar with it, including my buddy Andrew, tell me just like what comes to mind when I say the name Ricky Slum.

14 (12m 18s):
Oh man. Fighting a lot. He, he was like, he had a reputation for like going to parties and, and like I was just actually just talking about this to someone telling him like how he used to go to parties and be like, I want gimme two of your biggest guys. I'll fight 'em right now. And then like I was hanging out with some dudes, like after high school that went to Canyon.

0 (12m 45s):
Canyon was another high school in Santa Clarita. You could call it a rival school.

14 (12m 49s):
And like they were talking about this dude that showed up to their party and was like, I wanna see two of your biggest guys outside right now so I can fight him. And I was like, holy shit. They fucking ran into Ricky Slum.

0 (13m 1s):
This is all I ever really knew of Ricky Slum. He was one of those outsized characters in high school. Everyone knew him, A lot of people loved him and a lot of people were terrified of him. But then you graduate and characters like Ricky Slum, they shrink in magnitude until one day you hear some sad story about them and you can't help but feel bad. With Ricky. It was that he died in Iraq, 19 years old. It was October, 2004, I think. I was driving around Santa Clarita with my friends when Andrew told me, as I remember, I was in the passenger seat, he was behind the driver. And I just screamed what I remember, the holy shitness of that moment. But I do not remember a lot of tears.

14 (13m 41s):
Well, I wasn't sad. I didn't, I definitely didn't mourn his loss. It was more like, yeah, that sounds about right.

0 (13m 52s):
I think for those of us who were sitting in that car that night, it felt like a dude who lived to fight had gone and died in a fight. But not everyone I knew felt that way. About a year later, I was getting into my college roommate's car, go get some dinner with him. And just as I was crouching into the passenger seat of his Mustang, I noticed a pamphlet was already sitting there. There was a pamphlet with Ricky's face on it looked like could have been from his funeral. And I turned to Kevin and I was like, what is this? And he was like,

15 (14m 18s):
Yeah, you were holding a pamphlet from his funeral.

0 (14m 23s):
Because my college roommate Kevin, attended Ricky's funeral.

15 (14m 27s):
I met him probably maybe 11, 11 or 12 years old. I don't know either the end of elementary school, like sixth grade ish or like the beginning of junior high. We went to the same junior high. So for sure we became friends there, but then kind of continued on through high school. And then he ended up joining the Marines out of high school and relatively early on. Yeah, unfortunately from joining the Marines ended up dying. Yeah.

0 (14m 58s):
And of course Kevin remembered Ricky differently than my friends. And I did like Ricky's premature baldness, for example. The meathead skinhead thing. It maybe wasn't as black and white as we had thought.

15 (15m 10s):
I think it was honestly moral a point. I remember one time he even came like dressed up to school more like very like Chicano cholo style, you know, even though he was like white and not Mexican. But yeah, he definitely had the, he had had the like flannel shirt buttoned up top. He had like just picked his head. He had some like real dark locs on with like a, had the bandana across the forehead. Like real broad though, you know?

0 (15m 36s):
And while Kevin acknowledged Ricky could be something of a bully, he also told me about times when he saw Ricky as a protector.

15 (15m 43s):
We were walking through the mall, it was me, him, and a couple other friends in high school, probably like 14, 15. And there was some kids there who were, I don't know, had somehow started like talking and got into like some like verbal altercation with some other kids who I think went to another high school. And he, like, in that instance, like, like physically like fought with these other kids. Like for these other kids who were like getting picked on, you know? And, and he had no idea who they were. They were like complete strangers, you know,

0 (16m 15s):
Maybe that's why Ricky wanted to enlist as infantry in the Marines. You get to kick some ass and do some protecting too. But the story I heard was that Ricky didn't die doing either of those things in Iraq. He died in what was reported as a non-combat related vehicle accident. Apparently his Humvee overturned while maneuvering through barricades. One night near Abu grave, he was in the turret on top of the Humvee and he was ejected. His internal organs were crushed by his own 50 caliber machine gun. He traveled halfway around the world to serve an Iraq and he died in a car accident. To this day, I don't know what he died for.

7 (17m 8s):
I think some of it was due to nine 11, the whole towers coming down. And I'm not told 100% sure

16 (17m 19s):
We were gonna get somebody and it was the wrong place to go. I mean, it is just President Bush at the time. Was they, they were out for blood. Actually. Dick Cheney was out for blood and they wanted to go after somebody.

17 (17m 31s):
Well, we were doing, we invaded, we were going for, right. It was a whole talk still to this day, right? We imagine the actual talk like we invaded because they had weapons, mass weapons of destruction, but did they

18 (17m 41s):
Weapons of, yeah, weapons of mass destruction and just how it, like none of it really made sense and it all kind of felt like bullshit.

0 (17m 52s):
You are listening to today explained live from South by Southwest this past week in Austin, Texas. We're gonna pause for a moment and be right back with why this war happened, or at least why we were told it needed to happen and what happened after that.

19 (18m 19s):
Hi, it's Phoebe Judge, host of the podcast Criminal. We've got some exciting news. We're now bringing you more episodes than ever before. Four times a month we're sharing true stories about people who've done wrong, been wronged, or gotten caught somewhere in the middle.

20 (18m 37s):
I never did anything wrong. I never had a speeding ticket. So I think I just saved all my stuff up for just one thing.

19 (18m 45s):
Stories told by people who know them best, like a group of friends who broke into an FBI building, or man who figured out how to negotiate with his father's kidnappers.

21 (18m 55s):
Your ultimate goal is to convince them that they've milked you for everything you're worth.

19 (19m 2s):
From lato scams to black market bourbon to the accidental death of a rare and beautiful fish. We bring you stories about the most curious crimes around. Discover the unexpected side of true crime. Listen to criminal wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (19m 22s):
What do you think today? Explained this? I dunno.

0 (19m 30s):
Here's what happened in Iraq 20 years ago, almost to the day. George W. Bush, who I believe lives not too far from here, got on all the big channels and announced the United States would be invading Iraq. This was not Afghanistan. This was not the place where Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda were hanging out. When George W. Bush told the American people we were at war in Afghanistan in 2001, he said this to our armed forces,

22 (19m 54s):
To all the men and women in our military, every sailor, every soldier, every airman, every coast, guardsman, every marine. I say this, your mission is defined. Your objectives are clear. Your goal is just

0 (20m 8s):
With a rock. A couple years later, he made no such pledge. Instead he said the invasion was necessary

22 (20m 16s):
To free its people

0 (20m 18s):
And

22 (20m 19s):
And to defend the world from grave danger.

0 (20m 22s):
Bush said, Saddam Hussein was threatening the peace of the world with weapons of mass murder. And from the jump people whose business it was to be all up in a rock's weapons business had a hard time believing that six months before the war started, an intelligence document that since been declassified, stated that the United States was mostly relying on quote assumptions and judgment rather than quote hard evidence when making the case that Saddam Hussein had weapons that threatened the western world. Despite that, in February, 2003, one month before the war began, secretary of State Colin Powell appeared before the United Nations and said,

23 (20m 59s):
My colleagues, every statement I make today is backed up by sources, solid sources. These are not assertions. What we're giving you are facts and conclusions based on solid intelligence.

0 (21m 11s):
That same month, Saddam Hussein allowed United Nations inspectors into his country to investigate his weapons programs. The UN found no evidence of weapons of mass destruction. Around this time, British intelligence agencies were talking about the case for Warner Iraq. We know now that behind closed doors, they said Iraq posed no threat to the West. And that regime change was inadvisable primarily on the grounds that Iraq would collapse into chaos, which of course it did. In May of 2003, just two months after the war began, George W. Bush Borden aircraft carrier off the coast of San Diego to declare mission accomplished in Iraq.

0 (21m 52s):
He said

22 (21m 54s):
Major combat operations in Iraq have ended in the battle of Iraq, the United States and our allies have prevailed.

0 (22m 8s):
But he added

22 (22m 11s):
The transition from dictatorship to democracy will take time, but it is worth every effort. Our coalition will stay until our work is done.

0 (22m 23s):
A writer enrolling Stone recently wrote that these early months, where the fuck around stage of the Iraq War and the United States was about to spend the next decade or so finding out. A few months after Bush's Declaration of Victory, a suicide bomber drove a cement truck into the UN headquarters in Iraq, destroying the building and killing 22 people. That was a sign of what was to come. In the following months and years. Insurgents would target US forces who were trying to maintain control over a country that was descending into sectarian violence. Saddam Hussein held Iraq together with brutal tactics and repression. Now he was gone and it was on people like Ricky Slum to hold Iraq together.

0 (23m 3s):
The instability bred resentment toward US forces. They had tanks and Humvees and air support. The growing insurgency had suicide attacks, car bombs, surface to air, missiles, guns, and a shitload of homemade bombs. In early 2004, the Bush administration conceded there were no weapons of mass destruction to be found. An intelligence officer named David k testified before Congress. Let

25 (23m 30s):
Me begin by saying we were almost all

0 (23m 32s):
Wrong. But that same year, the fighting intensified the first battle of Fallujah, the second battle of Fallujah, American soldiers are dying, insurgents are dying, Iraqi civilians are dying. 2004 was also the year the world found out about prisoner torture at Abu grave, not far from where Ricky died that year, pictures began to leak of United States armed forces engaged in physical abuse, torture, and rape of Iraqi prisoners. Abu Grave would later be cited as inspiration for the beheadings of American civilians taken by Iraqi insurgents. In his book about the war titled Fiasco, the Washington Post former Pentagon correspondent Thomas Ricks claimed there are more than 34,000 insurgent attacks in 2005.

0 (24m 17s):
At this point, the war was costing the American taxpayer about $5 billion a month. By 2006, there was a new war, a Civil War, us and Iraqi forces versus various sectarian groups. By 2007, it was clear the United States would need to escalate to hold Iraq. So George W. Bush sent an additional 20,000 armed forces in the first troop search in 2008. You'll all recall we had a little regime change of our own. Barack Obama was elected the 44th president of the United States of America. He ran on a campaign to end the combat mission in Iraq.

26 (24m 52s):
Most of you know that I oppose this war from the start. I thought it was a tragic mistake. Today, we grieve for the families who have lost loved ones, the hearts that have been broken, and the young lives that could have been America. It is time to start bringing our troops home.

0 (25m 13s):
Obama delivered kind of, he starts drawing down troops once he entered his office. And by the end of 2011, he declares the end of the United States combat mission in Iraq. Mission accomplished again. But by 2014, the Islamic state had seized control of large swaths of the country, and President Obama had to send troops back to Iraq to fight them. There's a third war within a war, and it lasts into the presidency of Obama's successor and then his successor. In 2021, the United States military announces the end to its combat mission in Iraq again. But the military will not leave the country. 2,500 troops remain and transition to advise, assist, and enable Iraqi forces who are battling the Islamic state.

0 (26m 0s):
Today, right now, those 2,500 US troops remain in Iraq. Some of them are younger than the Congressional authorization that put them there. So far, the war in Iraq has cost the United States nearly 2 trillion to date. 4,418 American service members have died there. Tens of thousands have been injured at the outset of the war. George W. Bush said coalition forces would make every effort to spare innocent civilians from harm. Brown University's Casa War project estimates around 300,000 Iraqi civilians were killed by direct violence since the US invasion. They say the actual number of civilians killed by direct and indirect war violence is unknown, but likely much higher.

0 (26m 46s):
According to the Center for Public Integrity, the Bush White House made 935 false statements about Iraq in the two years following nine 11 when asked to take stock of the war by Wolf Blitzer in 2011, former vice President Dick Cheney said,

27 (27m 2s):
I don't think you can make a case that the world would be better off today if Saddam Hussein were still in power. So no regrets about a Iraq. I think we made exactly the right decisions.

0 (27m 13s):
Cheney's former boss, George W. Bush, might disagree with him.

22 (27m 17s):
The result is an absence of checks and balances in Russia. And the, the decision of one man to launch a wholly unjustified and brutal invasion of Iraq, I mean of Ukraine, Iraq. Anyway,

0 (27m 38s):
Don't you hate it when you say what you think people laugh, right? This isn't the guy who encouraged an insurrection. After all, this is the guy who paints a rocky war Veterans. Let's talk about the veterans. In 2022, president Biden signed a packed act to help treat veterans with toxic exposures, including those who were exposed to burn pits in Iraq and Afghanistan. These are sites where the United States armed forces burned uniforms, equipment, computers, poop, and were in turn exposed to toxic smoke and air conditions range from shortness of breath to bronchitis to cancer. President Biden believes his own son, Bo died of cancer. That can be traced back to his own exposure to burn pits in Iraq, cancer, bronchitis, and all the rest.

0 (28m 23s):
Got nothing on suicides though. Brown University says over 30,000 service members from the nine 11 Wars have ended their own lives. Back in January, my mom sent me a story from the town where she still lives. Santa Clarita, the city where Ricky Slum and I went to high school at Saugus. It was about a shooting at a bar, not a frequent occurrence, in this cookie cutter Southern California suburb. Turns out it was an off-duty deputy sheriff who pulled the trigger. He was an Afghanistan veteran named Jonathan Buchin. And Jonathan Buchin was the victim. He shot himself that night at the bar and died another veteran, another suicide, another statistic.

0 (29m 9s):
And because John and suicide was so close to home, he made me think of Ricky. I started to wonder what Ricky would be doing if he had made it home. Maybe he would be a cop. Maybe he'd have come around to hop pink. It makes me mad that we'll never know. Which is weird because I hardly knew him. And the people who are closest to him, they aren't mad at all. In the 20 years since you found out, have you ever felt mad?

13 (29m 37s):
No. I felt proud of. He did. He was doing what he wanted to do.

0 (29m 46s):
A few days ago, I spoke with Ricky's father.

13 (29m 48s):
I'm Bob Slum, I'm a gold star dad, because my son, Ricky Slum, was killed in Iraq on October 24th, 2004.

0 (30m 0s):
The first thing I told Bob was that I was gonna tell a lot of people, his late son Ricky, like to beat people up when we were in high school. And Bob Slum was like, yeah,

13 (30m 11s):
I just know. They started a something called the Fight Club here in Santa Clarita. Hmm. Which was a little social gathering. And he would come home a little bit, you know, marked up a little little bit. And I said, what happened? He says, well, we hit the Fight Club last night. So it's like, okay, whatever that is.

0 (30m 36s):
It was not news to Bob that his son Ricky liked to fight.

13 (30m 40s):
Ricky was a protector. He had a good social network where if somebody felt threatened, they would call him and he would come in and figure things out, you know, and help out with protecting his friends.

0 (31m 1s):
After nine 11, Ricky decided he wanna protect his country.

13 (31m 5s):
That was in the 11th grade, back in 2002. That's when he enlisted for the Marines. He just wanted to fight and protect. And you know, that's, that's the way he was. He was a fighter.

0 (31m 21s):
Did you have any qualms or, or did your wife, Ricky's mom, Kate, have any qualms with him? Enlisting? Were you?

13 (31m 29s):
Of course. Of course we did. I mean, we, we couldn't stop him because he was 18, but it was his idea. And at the time we were in a full fledged war and I was just doing the math like, okay, well how many people enlist? How many people don't come home? And you know, the list was very low as far as people that don't come home. So you just try not to think about it as parents and just help your sons stay safe.

13 (32m 13s):
And today, those three Marines came knocking on my door at six o'clock in the morning. It changed their lives. They would ask, are you Mr. Slum? And I said, yes. Can we come in?

0 (32m 41s):
When the Iraq War started, Americans didn't have a lot of information. We were told there were weapons that Saddam was bad and that there should be democracy in Iraq. 20 years later, we know there were no weapons. Saddam is gone. The Islamic state is still a threat, and democracy is fragile as fuck. And hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people died to get us here, including Ricky Slum. So I asked Bob what he thinks of the war. 20 years later,

13 (33m 15s):
Well, have we had another terrorist attack in the United States? No. So I'm thinking they went in, they got what they need to get done, they got saying, and I think we need a presence in Iraq just to keep the beast. And I know we can bring more troops in if we need to, but I just hope our presence there is a positive for the people in Iraq. Hmm. I think it's a very oppressed country.

0 (34m 2s):
Bob doesn't have a choice but to remember Iraq, he mentioned the date Ricky died over and over when we talked October 24th, 2004.

13 (34m 12s):
October 24th, 2004.

0 (34m 15s):
But he told me his community hasn't forgotten Ricky either. Every October 24th, friends and family come over to his house for a vigil. They remember Ricky together. He invited me to the next one.

13 (34m 36s):
Sorry. You had a bad experience with him. You know, he was not anti anti-gay. He, he, he had gay friends too, so I, I don't know what happened on that night were he chastised you for Warren Pink, but you know, I, I got a grandson, Warren Pink. You know, so

0 (35m 6s):
I say the piece that if Ricky were still here, he'd probably be wearing APIC polo.

13 (35m 12s):
He probably would. Yeah.

0 (35m 21s):
I'm Sean Ramas firm that was today explained live from South by Southwest 2023, recorded in Austin, Texas last week. The show was produced by me and Haddi Ma Wadi. It was edited by Jolie Myers and Fact checked by Laura Bullard. Thanks to Paul Robert Moundy, Noel King, Amina aad, Matthew Collette, Jonathan Geier and Victoria Chamberlain for their help with this show. And thanks to Darren Archer and Zachary Hunsaker for helping me remember.