0 (1s):
You know, I, I know a lot of people like weed and that's fine, but I don't find that it is very good for productivity

3 (15s):
To control or not control. That is the question. Elon Musk's seldom asks himself instead he trolls. And that's why it's kind of hard to know whether to take his Twitter takeover efforts. Seriously.

1 (28s):
I mean, I mean, I could technically afford it,

3 (30s):
But head on today explained we're going to figure it all out by talking to someone who knows him personally

4 (36s):
Cares. If he's a juvenile, he's had a very successful business run. Let's focus on that.

3 (40s):
And to someone who doesn't

5 (42s):
The big picture, this is a story about internet culture, which is really just culture,

3 (47s):
But in reverse order, Today. Explain I'm Sean rom for I'm joined by Liz Lopatto.

5 (1m 9s):
I am a deputy editor at the verge

3 (1m 11s):
Lately. That's meant she's been writing a lot about Elon Musk.

5 (1m 17s):
Yeah. So Elon Musk, if you're not familiar is the CEO of a car company, Tesla and a rocket company space X, and he's also a renowned internet poster spends a lot of time on Twitter

4 (1m 33s):
Tweet a lot.

1 (1m 34s):
I use my trees to express myself,

5 (1m 36s):
Loves riling people up on Twitter.

3 (1m 37s):
He loves to talk smack about like Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren

8 (1m 42s):
At Bernie Sanders over the weekend. I keep forgetting that you're still alive, that I just don't even know what to say about that.

5 (1m 53s):
The other thing that's maybe worth noting here is that his Twitter use was important for Tesla. His account is disclosed in some of their filings as being a legitimate source for Tesla information. And it also in 2018, which I understand feels like the, the ancient mists of time by now, he made an announcement that he was going to take Tesla. Private funding secured on Twitter. Funding was not secured. He ended up getting fined by the sec

9 (2m 23s):
Statements, misled members of the investing public to believe that it was virtually certain, you could take Tesla private at a price of $420 per share, which was a substantial premium over a share price. At that time,

5 (2m 36s):
Twitter is a place where he does a lot of his, I think, entertainment. So it seems to be massively important to him personally, as a forum for talking to his fans,

1 (2m 49s):
Quarters, a war zone, somebody who's going to jump in the war zone. It's like, okay, you're in the arena. Let's go.

3 (2m 58s):
And before this begins, how does Twitter feel about Elon Musk?

5 (3m 4s):
Well, there's a little bit of pre-history here. Some of which is corporate. So Twitters last CEOs, a guy named Jack Dorsey,

3 (3m 13s):
Beautiful

5 (3m 13s):
Beard, iconic beard. And he has said that he views Musk as the ideal Twitter user. Like that's how he thinks Twitter should be used. And so the two of them are buddies. And so last year,

3 (3m 28s):
Okay, fact-check this actually happened in 2020, but as Liz said earlier, the ancient mists of time,

5 (3m 34s):
Some activist shareholders, Elliott management, which are legitimately scary people. If they get into your stock, you're maybe in trouble. They got us to Twitter.

10 (3m 43s):
We got some pretty big social media news. We learned that Elliot management that's that relentless activists, hedge fund had taken a sizeable position in Twittering demanded CEO, Jack Dorsey's head on a silver platter.

5 (3m 54s):
Twitter ended up like settling with them for some board seats and Jack Dorsey left last year, which means that Elliott capital management's ideal successor prag Agra wall is now the CEO of Twitter. So that's sort of the pre-history here.

3 (4m 11s):
How does this particular story start?

5 (4m 13s):
So a couple of weeks ago, we discovered that Isla and Musk had been buying up shares of Twitter,

10 (4m 25s):
Winter shares. They are surging right now. This because Tesla CEO, Elon Musk has now taken a passive stake in Twitter that

5 (4m 33s):
Discovered this because he had filed the wrong form with the sec about

3 (4m 38s):
It, not good, the financial stuff.

5 (4m 40s):
I just think he doesn't like the sec very much and doesn't respect them. And I think that because he said so several times

1 (4m 47s):
I want to be clear. I do not respect the sec. I do not respect them.

5 (4m 51s):
He files this and there's like a sort of interest. The stock pops. I want to say it's about 30%. It's like people are excited that Elon Musk has gotten into this stock.

3 (5m 1s):
What does Twitter do in that moment?

5 (5m 3s):
I think panics, I think that that's like, it's a shock to everybody, right? This is like surprise. Elon Musk is at the party. And that's what I think when they probably started negotiating with him about the board seat.

3 (5m 15s):
So Twitter finds out that Elon Musk is buying up a bunch of its stock and they call him up and they say, shall we put you on the board? Why would they do that? If he's sort of like a mercurial figure on Twitter?

5 (5m 30s):
Well, couple of reasons, first of all, I think it's not a bad idea to have poster representation on the board of your company. If your company's Twitter, Plus Elon Musk getting into it, makes the shares go up and, you know, investors generally like it, when numbers go up, like that seems to be like a thing. The possibility of Elon Musk on your board is that Elan can say a bunch of wild things and have them be thought of as Elon being Ilan. But you as CEO or an otherwise responsible member of the financial community cannot say, and maybe that's useful.

3 (6m 5s):
So they think of it as a potentially positive business development, but also maybe like a way to keep an eye on them.

5 (6m 15s):
Yeah. There's also a standstill agreement on that board seat, which is that, that he's not going to buy more than 15% of the company's shares. So like he, isn't gonna like buy a half the company, you know, he's going to stop at 15% in order to retain that board. See it.

3 (6m 33s):
How does Elan respond to this effort to maybe celebrate him, but also contain him?

5 (6m 40s):
Well, there were a bunch of weird tweets for awhile. He, you know, he's tweeting stuff about

11 (6m 44s):
Twitter is dying, that they should empty out the headquarters in San Francisco and turn it into a homeless shelter that Twitter blue is a bad product. Basically trashing the company that he's now the largest shareholder in.

5 (6m 56s):
And like there's some other things he's tweeting over the course of that weekend about like an edit button, which by the way, Twitter was already working on. And then after all of this, like this weekend of like really intense, like product suggestion, tweeting the CEO of Twitter drops a letter that he has just sent to his entire company. That's like, oh yes, by the way, Ilan has decided he doesn't want to join the board anymore.

11 (7m 21s):
Really what it seems like is they wanted him on the board to be a fiduciary to the shareholders and the employees of the company. And he decided that what he wanted was more drastic change.

5 (7m 29s):
And then Elan's like, cool.

12 (7m 31s):
Musk is threatening a hostile takeover of Twitter for $43 billion and is filing with the sec. Musk says free speech is imperative for a functioning democracy. I now realize the company will neither thrive nor serve this societal imperative in its current form.

5 (7m 47s):
Elan's like I'm willing to pay $54 20 cents a share a long time. Elon Watchers will note that four 20 is the weed number

3 (7m 55s):
Happy four 20 to all those who celebrate

5 (7m 58s):
Also the Tesla go private thing. He was going to take Tesla private at $420 per share. So like four 20 is clearly a very special number to Ilan happy four 20. I mean,

2 (8m 9s):
It's legal, right?

3 (8m 10s):
What about this is hostile. What does like a hostile bid mean versus, you know, I'm buying 15% of your share kind of bid.

5 (8m 21s):
Usually when you go to acquire all of the company, you have like a cool conversation with management. Everyone's real friendly. You work out like a bid that makes sense to management makes sense to you. The acquirer, like maybe you have some like contracts for like key personnel. You want to keep on, like, typically these things are friendly. Like there's like a bunch of meetings. You know, your lawyers kiss their lawyers or whatever it is fine. But in the 1980s, there was this practice from corporate Raiders. Like Carl Icahn

14 (8m 55s):
Icon is the man who has been changing the face of American business, which is threatened or actual takeovers of dozens of companies.

5 (9m 2s):
They called themselves activist shareholders. But frankly corporate Raiders is a cooler term where they would go into a company and they would buy it out. They would trim the costs. They would make it look attractive and then they would sell it to somebody else and make a pretty big profit. And that's sort of what the hostile process is. So you aren't arrived at a number without consulting the board, or like doing any of like the making nice playing footsie stuff and was like, Hey, this is my offer to buy your entire company. It's, you know, $54 20 cents a share. It was my best and final offer. I'm cutting to the chase. I'm cutting to the very end. And if this doesn't work out, I may sell all of my shares.

5 (9m 43s):
So it feels a little like a threat. Also, in addition to being like a hostile bid,

3 (9m 48s):
How does the world react to that? I

5 (9m 51s):
Don't think people think it's real. And I'll tell you, I, again, there's the pre-history with Tesla taking Tesla private where like the funding wasn't secured, ordinarily one secures funding before doing this stuff. And here, if you look at the sec filing, he's like, this is contingent on me getting funding. And he's like retained Morgan Stanley, which good for Morgan Stanley. That's nice for them. I'm sure they're making a cute little fee to help him with this. But he hasn't like got the funding ahead of time, which is sort of standard. When one does this kind of thing to indicate that one is serious. You're like, Hey, check out all the cool money I have for this, this bid.

3 (10m 30s):
What do you mean secure the funding though? Isn't he like the richest man in the world?

5 (10m 33s):
He is, but he did this Ted talk the same day that this all came out and he's like,

1 (10m 39s):
I should also say that the intent is, is to retain as many shareholders as is allowed by the law.

15 (10m 46s):
You don't necessarily want to pay out 40 or whatever it is, billion dollars in cash. You'd like them to come, come with you. And,

1 (10m 52s):
And then, I mean, I could technically afford it.

5 (10m 56s):
And like part of that is that he's not very liquid. Like all of his wealth is in shares of Tesla and space X. And the stuff that he lives off of is mostly stuff that he's borrowing against those shares. So in order to get his hands on his own money, he would either have to sell a chunk of shares and Tesla or space X, which maybe those investors wouldn't be super happy about, or he would have to borrow more against those shares, which could potentially lead to a margin call. So he's saying I'll put up some chunk of the money, but not all of it. I want to keep as many shareholders in this as possible, but I think we need to go private to make the kinds of changes that would make Twitter, a better place.

1 (11m 40s):
Having a public platform that is maximally trusted and, and broadly inclusive is extremely important to the future of civilization. But you've, you've described yourself. I don't care about the economics at all.

3 (11m 57s):
And how does Twitter respond?

5 (11m 59s):
Cool. So we need to think about this blah-blah-blah fiduciary duty. Okay.

10 (12m 2s):
And just say, Hey, you know what? We'll take it. You can't, that's not fair to the shareholders.

5 (12m 7s):
Then they start doing stuff that looks like they're not going to be like responding to it positively. So most recently they've activated what they call a shareholder rights plan, which is more commonly known as a poison pill,

3 (12m 20s):
A poison pill. I've heard about this on succession.

16 (12m 22s):
My question would be what's it worth in terms of the me of it all?

5 (12m 29s):
Yeah. This is like very dumb succession.

16 (12m 33s):
I can, I can chug it.

5 (12m 35s):
The poison pill let's Twitter dilute their shares. And importantly, this also features the weed number. I mean,

3 (12m 42s):
It's legal,

5 (12m 43s):
Right? What happens is for $210, you can, you can buy this like package this offering. And then if it's triggered, you get $420 worth of Twitter shares

3 (12m 59s):
Again with the four 20

5 (13m 1s):
Blaze. It

3 (13m 2s):
Everyone's 13 years old. Again, what

5 (13m 4s):
I'm waiting for is the sex number, frankly, like when Twitter comes back to Elon Musk and it's like, we're not selling it for below 69. I'm like, all right. All right.

3 (13m 11s):
Nice,

5 (13m 12s):
Nice.

3 (13m 13s):
Does it feel risky to have someone who's been perhaps one of the most conspicuous trolls on Twitter in charge of the platform and its ideas around content moderation and free speech? Not to mention someone who has like two to three to four other hugely ambitious business ventures that he has to concern himself with?

5 (13m 36s):
Well, of course it's risky. It's Elon Musk. I think it's this entire process is risky for Twitter, not just because of Elon Musk, but because now the company is in play and in the business world, when it comes to these kinds of corporate buyouts, there are certain dances that are done. I don't know, Ellen knows that there's dancer is willing to do it, but I bet Twitter's board does. And one way that you fend off Elon Musk is you go find yourself a white Knight to make a better offer than Elon Musk. And then you're like, yeah. So we're going to go with a better offer. Thanks, bye. I also think it's possible that people who hadn't been thinking about Twitter while it was like minding its own business are maybe now kicking the wheels and thinking, oh, do I want to make an acquisition?

5 (14m 20s):
Maybe I should make a bid. So I think that there's like a certain amount of chaos that has now been injected into an already chaotic system, courtesy of Elon Musk. And one of the things that I think is really interesting is that this could play out in a variety of ways, including, you know, some way that I haven't forced, which is maybe the most interesting part of all of this, because both Twitter and Elan are sort of chaotic and putting those two chaotic things together, very rarely results in order

17 (15m 15s):
This is paid content from engine Lately. Many of us have rediscovered a forgotten pastime jigsaw puzzles. There's the shaking of the pieces in their box. The satisfying click as pieces snap in the place pinpointing the source of cancer in a patient can be like trying to find that one elusive puzzle piece in a box of mini

18 (15m 39s):
Each patient is unique in their own way.

17 (15m 42s):
Gregory Freiburg, a leader on the global medical affairs team at Amgen says that personalized medicine starts with knowing what you're dealing with on a molecular level.

18 (15m 53s):
And of course, just like a puzzle. If you're missing pieces, it's hard to see that forest through the trees

17 (15m 58s):
Take lung cancer, which accounts for almost 25% of us cancer deaths each year, it can be caused by any number of different protein mutations. One of the most common is K Raz G 12 C, which is found in 13% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer. This is where biomarker testing comes in.

5 (16m 17s):
There are ways today to be able to specify which exact mutation is associated with the lung cancer that a patient might have.

17 (16m 26s):
Margaret Shue Moyer is vice-president of research at Amgen.

5 (16m 29s):
Marker testing may offer specific treatment.

18 (16m 34s):
Receiving biomarker information is like filling in the missing piece to a puzzle

17 (16m 39s):
To learn more about biomarker testing and how Amgen has taken on the K Raz challenge. Visit amgen.com/no K rats

3 (16m 52s):
Support for the show. Today comes from wealth front. I'm not going to front wealth. Front is an automated investment services firm. Their automated software helps optimize your investments by doing the work for you. Sounds nice from rebounds in your portfolio to minimizing your taxes. You can go with wealth fronts, expert built portfolios, including a socially responsible option. That's designed around sustainability, diversity and equity, or you can build your own portfolio with their curated selection of funds. The choices are yours. Folks. Wealth front is trusted with over $27 billion in assets and Investopedia just named them their best robo advisor for 2022 to get your first $5,000 managed for free for life.

3 (17m 39s):
Go to wealth. front.com/explained that's w E a L T H F R O N t.com/explained to start building your wealth, go to wealth, front.com/explained to get started today.

0 (17m 58s):
I mean, it's legal, right?

3 (17m 59s):
Kara Swisher, journalist podcast, or person who talks to Elon Musk every once in a while, after talking to Liz Lopatto from the verge, I feel like I'm sort of stuck between. This is like a grownup man-child making four 20 jokes, and this is an immensely important business and cultural decision at stake here. Where's your head at?

4 (18m 20s):
I would say in the middle, you know, I think on one hand who cares, if he's a juvenile, he's had a very successful business run, let's focus on that. He's run companies pretty well. There's been some issues, you know, he certainly runs through employees and you know, he's a, he's a, he's a tough boss, but he's created two companies, particularly space X and Tesla that are groundbreaking, you know, to call him an idiot, which I find kind of ridiculous on Twitter, where the people who are sort of clutching their pearls. I mean, he landed a rocket on a platform in the Pacific or wherever it's like, what, like, come on, like this guy knows what he's doing in terms of a lot of things and technology for sure. And having spent a lot of time with him, I don't like his juvenile jokes. Some of them, some of them are funny.

4 (19m 1s):
You know, I like his meme. Sometimes some of them are tasteless. Some of them are stupid. And to him, he loves Twitter. He thinks it's run badly and he sees an opportunity. And I think that's, what's interesting. There is an opportunity here.

3 (19m 13s):
Let's talk about Twitter for a second. I mean, Ilan cares a lot about Twitter. I know you're rather active on Twitter for all the people out there in our listening audience who are like more into Tik TOK or the gram. Why should people care about Twitter?

4 (19m 26s):
Well, I'm not sure they should cause it's business. Right? You know, it's been a business since the beginning. And I use that as a technical term. It really is business. It's very small. People don't realize how small it is, as much as it feels. Out-sized in the lives of media and politicians who are both narcissists in a way. I think one of the things that's hard to put in people's minds is it's not a utility. It's not, it's just a product. And so this product has been under leveraged, even though it has global influence. There's very few internet properties that have global reach of this many people and has a business that hasn't kept up with the promise of it. And I think that's what he learns talking about. It's been badly managed since the beginning by various and sundry people.

4 (20m 7s):
Its stock has sat in the doldrums since it was started. It's had brief moments of glory, which is what the Twitter board is trying to hang on to in their efforts to get a higher price. But I think what people really should just, it's a business deal. This is a business deal. This is not the end of civilization. You know, what's going on in Russia in Ukraine is something that we might want to pay more attention to than who owns Twitter.

3 (20m 29s):
So Elan cares about this public square. He thinks it could be a much better run business. You wrote a column for the time saying Elon Musk knows exactly what he is doing. What exactly is he doing?

4 (20m 42s):
I have a hard time in this reductive world having complex things. I think he likes it. You know, he's like, remember, you don't remember you're too young, but there was a guy named Victor cayenne.

19 (20m 51s):
I used to be a dedicated, wet shave until my wife bought me this Remington M three electric shaver. I was delighted and impressed. So impressed. I bought the company.

4 (20m 60s):
He likes the razor so much. He wants to buy the company. He thinks it's under leveraged. She has an issue around free speech, which I think is a lot more hand-waving than anything else. Like a lot of Silicon valley people. Cause they don't get to say what they want. They want desperately to say awful things. I guess. I don't know. It's such an important need for them when they have everything else and they can't say every word they want. They're getting very, very pissy. Yeah.

3 (21m 21s):
And this is Elan's big idea for Twitter is to just make speech freer.

4 (21m 26s):
I, you know, I don't really know. It's kind of, he's got some good ideas, the edit buttons, a great idea. The idea of an edit button is a great idea, but

3 (21m 33s):
That's not his idea right

4 (21m 34s):
Now, but it's an it's anybody. I, at this point, I'm like anybody who could do it, I don't care. You know, I think some of his product stuff is pretty good. Getting rid of bots obviously is a low hanging fruit. That's been a real problem. I think he's going to find it. As many people have written a big friggin mess when he gets inside of it. These decisions are not so easy to make. And so I think trashing the Twitter people as much as he does is a little reductive to like, okay, but it's not that easy. What they're doing at the same time, they're not doing a very good job. Right? So even if they make a small mistake, it has big repercussions. So I, you know, I don't quite know what he's going to do because if he lets it be a free for all, it turns into a place for advertisers. So then does he make it subscription?

4 (22m 14s):
Would you pay a subscription where you get yelled at, by, you know, anti-vax bots all day long? No, thank you. Like, oh, I'll be showing myself out essentially. So it's tough if he wants to just own it just to own it. And he doesn't have economic reasons. That's a lot of money to pay for amusing yourself.

3 (22m 30s):
Where do you put the odds of this actually happening? If he

4 (22m 32s):
Can prove he has the money and he holds his interest. Absolutely. Although I think it's a big risk to his other holdings that are much more important. Like Tesla, if he has to leverage up Tesla, that's a problem. You know, Apple's coming form in that space. Lots of people are coming form in that space. And so he's not gonna enjoy his Gemini there for too long, too much longer. You know, the space thing. I think he's far in a way, I don't feel like Jeff Bezos is going to catch up to him any time soon. Although he'll try, he's got some things where he's really far ahead and that's where I would focus. But this amuses him. It's a big risk to him financially, if he does it in the incorrect way. But if he uses, you know, OPM other people's money, he's not, but that comes with hooks. He's got a little bit greed to agree to. And again, he doesn't like that. So even though he says, you know, he's the richest man in the world, this is expensive.

4 (23m 15s):
This is, this, ain't a small lift or the richest person in the world. It's a heavy lift. And then it comes with the whole controversy, which he likes. So that's fine. I will point out one other thing is for the people that are losing their minds over Elon Musk owning it, guess who's a big owner, the Saudis, I pick him over the Saudis any day of the week and twice on Sunday,

3 (23m 34s):
The amusing himself, part of this, it makes it feel like a giant troll. And he is a bit of a troll on Twitter. It would it be easier for Elon Musk himself, if this were something he was taking seriously and seriously wanted to just approach it in a more straight ahead kind of way. Certainly he has the contacts of people in charge of Twitter.

4 (23m 55s):
Yeah, sure. I guess if he was a different person altogether. No, he's not. He's he loved Musk. This is what he does about whatever he makes weed jokes. He, this is, this is the guy. This is who he is. I don't think he even needs to own it. I think he could get up to the, to the level of 14%. He'll have enormous influence over this company just by owning that much of the company. I don't know why he needs to own it. It's just harder. I guess he's used to running everything and people, he says jump and you know, everyone says how high, and this is not a situation. He's got a big board. So he's got to, he wants full control. Cause that's the kind of guy he is. I guess he could have a lot of influence owning a big chunk of it. I don't see why he needs to own it. And it's a lot of money. I think the issue is he's got approved that he has an ability to raise the money to do this and that it is economic.

4 (24m 39s):
Like he's not going to these hedge fund guys, you know, they'd run over their mother to make a book. So, you know, they want to see, even if they go free speech, they really are thinking about more money for me. And so, so I think the hedge fund guys will not, he's got to have help partners. And this week, a lot of these people who I know a little bit, I try to avoid them, have called me. And I think their big question is, is he crazy? Is he serious? They say, is he serious? And what they mean is is he crazy? Or will he lose interest? And I'm like, I think he's quite serious, but he's also a little, you know, he jumps from thing to thing and he did it with Etsy or doge coin or my son I think said he gets bored.

4 (25m 23s):
He's like Tony stark. He really is. He's playing. He's trying to play that character. I guess

3 (25m 28s):
He gets bored. But as you write, he's never boring.

4 (25m 31s):
No, never

3 (25m 39s):
Kara Swisher. She hosts the pivot podcast and another one called sway. Earlier. You heard from Liz Lopatto she's with the verge. Find her work@theburj.com. Our show today was produced by miles. Bryan edited by Matthew collect fact-checked by Matthew and Amina, all Saudi and engineered by a female hero. I'm Sean Robins from it is today explained.