3 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from neutrophil According to neutrophil 80 million men and women in the u.s. Experienced thinning hair, but now there's a drug-free step you can take to treat it. It's neutrophil neutrophil is a hundred percent drug-free and formulated with pure Botanicals to grow hair. That's a strong as you are gosh started, but never gets old. You can try neutral right now and get 20% off and neutrophil.com you Seeing the offer code explain. That's Nu traf o l.com use the promo code explained. President Trump has a pretty cozy relationship with Russia.

3 (44s):
He flat out ask the country for help in the 2016 election against Hillary Clinton Russia. If you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing. He defended the country after it went ahead and meddled in the election people came to me. Dan coats came to me and some others. They said they think it's Russia I have Putin he just said it's not Russia. He even tried to bring Russia into the G7 Russia should be in this meeting. Walk but lately it's gotten hard for Trump to defend Russia, especially over the last week.

3 (1m 24s):
There is good reason to believe that the Russian government paid the Taliban to kill American soldiers Zack peacham has been covering the story for Vox. Well, it's tantamount to an act of war from one

1 (1m 37s):
nuclear-armed power against another one. Not

3 (1m 39s):
that they're likely to escalate to major war, but it's a sign that Russian foreign policy has become so

1 (1m 44s):
antagonist at towards the United States that they're willing to

3 (1m 47s):
outright kill American soldiers. Even though the two countries are

1 (1m 51s):
nominally in sort of a time of peace and

3 (1m 54s):
cooperation. Okay. So let's start at the beginning here walk us through what we know that the Russians are alleged to have been doing in Afghanistan and when

1 (2m 5s):
the first report that we've heard of that in March 2019 the US government got some early murky intelligence that the Russians may have been doing this the initiative seemed to come from the gru, which is its military intelligence agency. They're the people who did The election hack they poisoned a former Russian double agent in Britain

3 (2m 23s):
sag, a script how seen here in CCTV footage and his daughter Yulia have been in hospital since Sunday when they were found unconscious on the bench outside a shopping center in the southwestern town of Salisbury in this unit

1 (2m 37s):
specifically of the gru. That's allegedly involved. They do a lot of the violent change

3 (2m 42s):
the poisoning of former Russian intelligence officer sergei's gripple and his daughter Julia follow sir. Mysterious deaths of Russians in Britain many of them had been living in the UK and it made allegations against Russian President Vladimir Putin or his country's security services. So in March 2019, it wasn't

1 (3m 2s):
super clear right at that point. The intelligence wasn't actionable in that which means that people didn't really know how serious it was or if the US should respond fast forward to February 2020

3 (3m 14s):
and by then we also know thanks to the New York

1 (3m 17s):
Times that the

3 (3m 18s):
intelligence community. He was becoming increasingly

1 (3m 20s):
confident that the Russians were doing is and had done it over the course of 20 19.

3 (3m 25s):
Are there any specific attacks that us intelligence says we're linked to the Russians. They believe

1 (3m 31s):
that one might be there was a 20-19 car bomb attack around Bagram Airfield that killed three US Marines. This was an April 20 19.

3 (3m 40s):
This was a powerful suicide bomb targeting a medical building near to the Bagram Air Base six Afghans were wounded on the attack on this facility, which has been built to help local people who has not yet been a claim of responsibility, but both the Taliban and Cysts stage attacks on a daily basis in Kabul and other parts of the country and this bomb was so big do we know that this was the result of the Russian initiative here? No, but

1 (4m 6s):
they are investigating this as potentially linked to what the Russians have done.

3 (4m 16s):
What is the evidence that that us intelligence is working on to claim that the Russians were behind these attacks or at least sponsored them the US government has captured Taliban soldiers interrogated them and they have said, you know, we were doing this thing with the Russians. So that's that's where the suspicions of this plot begin with because some prisoners were saying that to them and interrogations may or may not

1 (4m 39s):
be a reliable source of information,

3 (4m 41s):
but we know again thanks to the New York Times that the u.s. Intercepted evidence. Of money going from a GRU account to the taliban's bank account. Like they literally have paid them. The second point is that the Afghan government has

1 (4m 57s):
developed some information linked to

3 (4m 58s):
this. They did a bunch of raids around Kabul to deal with some illegal or militant activity and they rounded up a bunch of guys were involved in what's essentially like a informal money transfer system. But some of these people

1 (5m 13s):
that they rounded up were local businessmen. Man

3 (5m 16s):
who claimed to be

1 (5m 19s):
middlemen between the Taliban and the Russians so there was this direct transfer but there was also another money route. Apparently that came from these people

3 (5m 27s):
and to support this the Afghan government found huge amounts of cash like an unusual amount of

1 (5m 31s):
cash in their homes.

3 (5m 33s):
So it is totally plausible

1 (5m 37s):
based on these three pieces, the

3 (5m 39s):
the financial transfers us

1 (5m 41s):
interrogations and Afghan interrogations of a different type of person

3 (5m 44s):
reviewing a Facet of the alleged plot that leads me to believe that this probably did happen again, I can't say with certainty intelligence world is super murky and we don't know what the dissenters inside the US government to some internal controversy. The financial transfers seems to have lessened this. Why do you think intelligence officials are leaking this story to the Press at this point what's in it for them? I think they had been really frustrated four months of with presidential in action on this topic and Trump not doing anything despite being briefed and informed that the Russians were messing with American lives and potentially Killing American soldiers and they went to the Press essentially as a

1 (6m 27s):
whistleblower type thing. The

3 (6m 29s):
processes for accountability are failing Trump is Waging War on inspectors General. The only thing that we can do

1 (6m 36s):
is go to the press and hope the public and the political branches. Can do something about it.

3 (6m 40s):
This seems like a pretty huge risk on Russia's part. Why would putting bounties on American troops be worth it for them?

1 (6m 48s):
The way to think of the Russian motivation here is retaliation and pay back in two different senses of the term.

3 (6m 58s):
The first one has to do with Ukraine

1 (7m 0s):
one major break between the Trump Administration and the Obama Administration someone ironically is that the Trump people have provided lethal military assistance to the Ukrainian government in their fight against Russia inside its borders. This has really infuriated the Russians. It's one of the things about Trump's policy. They really really dislike and

3 (7m 18s):
It is possible

1 (7m 19s):
that the Russians see killing Americans as direct retaliation for the fact that Americans have provided lethal assistance to ukrainians who have killed Russians, but you also should go back even further in time. All right to the 1980's the US was then involved in fighting back against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan specifically by supporting local Fighters called the mujahideen through arms transfers who would eventually become the Taliban so So that was a real blow to Soviet power at the time the u.s. Program was whether or not it's morally defensible strategically, very effective and bogging down the Russians in the terrible conflict.

1 (7m 59s):
But now we're 30 40 years later from the Russian

3 (8m 3s):
invasion of Afghanistan and that still seems to be on the mind

1 (8m 5s):
some Russian policymakers apparently according to some open source reports some members of the gru unit that was involved in this bounty program were actually Veterans of the Afghanistan war like they were alive then and fighting in it on the Soviet side. So they see attacking the United States in Afghanistan. Not merely as a strategic project of bogging the u.s. Down in the conflict and not merely as some kind of payback for what the US is doing in Ukraine, but as really sort of symbolic retaliation for a slight and a defeat the u.s.

1 (8m 45s):
Inflicted on the Soviet Union 34 years ago.

3 (8m 49s):
Isn't Russia worried about the Taliban as well? They don't seem especially concerned. I'm not exactly sure why the Russians aren't worried about there being some kind of backlash from there being a militant islamist group on their borders, but I think you can make

1 (9m 3s):
the argument a lot of analysts do that. The

3 (9m 5s):
Taliban

1 (9m 7s):
has over the course of the past 20 years evolved from being the kind of group that would support and host Al-Qaeda inside their

3 (9m 12s):
borders to one that is much more concerned with its own Survival and with regaining power.

1 (9m 18s):
And Afghanistan and preventing a re-run of the 2001 Invasion that toppled

3 (9m 22s):
it so they'd be much less interested in hosting foreign jihadists. And the evidence for this is that there was an attempt to build an Isis presence in Afghanistan and the Taliban attack them and and pretty thoroughly demolish them because they didn't want the competition from another militant islamist group in the area. So if you think that their objectives have changed from transnational jihadist them to basically jihadism in one country. Then you're less concerned if you're Russia. And is that why US troops are still in Afghanistan to counter the Taliban to try to manage the Taliban? Well, the Afghan war has taken on a

1 (10m 1s):
life of its own and the mind of US policy makers

3 (10m 5s):
great. It's gone. Well past the initial strategic

1 (10m 8s):
objective of rooting out Al Qaeda and its patrons in

3 (10m 11s):
the Taliban and has become a sort of we can't leave because if we leave we'll lose and they also think that you know, they would be abandoned.

1 (10m 18s):
Their allies in the Afghan government to The Tender Mercies of the Taliban and we get a lot of people

3 (10m 24s):
killed a problem is it's pretty clear that the u.s. Government does not have the ability even with its Afghan Partners to destroy the

1 (10m 31s):
Taliban in any kind of meaningful sense. So there needs to be some kind

3 (10m 36s):
of negotiated withdrawal for the United States and in February the Trump Administration did ink an agreement with the Taliban after 18 months of talks and nearly two decades of war the US and the and Taliban have just signed a longer way to deal aimed at Paving the way to peace and the departure of foreign troops. There's no telling how long this deals Gonna Last though. And even with the deal civilians are still dying in Afghanistan. I mean the US has been in Afghanistan for almost 20 years Russia invaded before that. What does all this mean for the Afghan people? I mean, it's there's something

1 (11m 10s):
horribly familiar for people in Afghanistan about this kind of thing happening to them their country has become a Battleground for a variety of different. And forces, you know the

3 (11m 20s):
United States Al Qaeda the Pakistani government's now the Russian government and while this may not mean very

1 (11m 28s):
much immediately, you know, in terms of there may not be a violent u.s. Escalation or retaliation. It is an awful way to live to have for four decades now been caught between a struggles between great powers and it has ruined the lives of thousands tens of thousands Maybe. He millions of Afghans and the ongoing Warfare in that country should be seen rightly first and foremost as a human tragedy. More with Zack in a minute.

1 (12m 20s):
We are interconnected

3 (12m 23s):
when a black person is able to

1 (12m 26s):
obtain Justice and peace. All people are going to benefit. We have been suddenly plunged into an existential crisis and we are not a society in general that turns to deep questions of Life Meaning. Hey, everyone.

3 (12m 48s):
Sean illing senior

1 (12m 49s):
interviews writer at box.com. I'm Seagal Samuel staff writer at vaux and future perfect together. We're launching a new podcast miniseries called the way through every Wednesday. We'll talk with theologians philosophers and other thinkers about the challenges of this moment and how the best ideas can help us all get through it Sean and I are both philosophy nerds and I'm also a former religion reporter. So this is our attempt to mine the world's richest wisdom traditions for some guidance. It can help us through these crazy times a scary pandemic a huge economic collapse racial Injustice and social unrest will bring on the smartest people. We can find to discuss everything from Buddhist meditations on Race to Albert can lose the plague to how to turn all this trauma and suffering into something useful.

1 (13m 39s):
So look for a new episode of the way through every Wednesday starting July 1st in the future perfect feed. You can also find us on Apple podcast or wherever you listen. podcast hey, I'm songwriter Charlie Harding and I a musicologist sniffs loan where the hosts of Switched on Papa podcast about how popular music works and why it matters every week Charlie and I break down the biggest pop songs in a way that you've never heard before I switched on pop. We have conversations with the likes of Carly Rae Jepsen lizzo and Phineas most recently we chatted with baz luhrmann to uncover one of the earliest internet hoaxes that turned into The unlikely hit Everybody's Free To Wear Sunscreen and explored how people are making music in 2020 under extremely challenging circumstances and asked ourselves.

1 (14m 37s):
If we were all wrong about Kanye West so join us search for switched on pop in your favorite podcast app and listen to an episode about your favorite artist and then subscribe for free on Apple podcast Spotify or wherever you're listening to get new music explainers each week. Zack

3 (15m 2s):
when exactly did US intelligence first find out that Russia was apparently paying the Taliban to kill American soldiers. So it seems like us intelligence

1 (15m 13s):
got word of it in early 2019.

3 (15m 16s):
The first briefing of the

1 (15m 17s):
president that we've heard about came in March 2019

3 (15m 21s):
us intelligence was pretty

1 (15m 22s):
spotty at that point. It was

3 (15m 23s):
not confirmed. It was just the sort of hey we have some reason to believe.

1 (15m 29s):
This might be happening that is according to the Associated Press and the briefing was led by John Bolton. Who is then the National Security advisor.

3 (15m 37s):
This is a big deal, right? Russia Killing American soldiers is

1 (15m 42s):
even for the Russians a significant escalation in their anti-American activities.

3 (15m 46s):
And what do we know about what President Trump knew and when he knew it we know that this this has briefing happened in March 2019. We also know the Bolton's not the only National

1 (15m 56s):
Security advisor to have spoken to the president

3 (15m 58s):
about this. This and then we also know on February 27th 2020. The allegations were included in the president's

1 (16m 6s):
Daily Brief, which is a document that basically summarizes the most important things that the president needs to know

3 (16m 12s):
and the pdb

1 (16m 14s):
as it's called biggest president's Daily Brief is too long and annoying to say

3 (16m 18s):
is supposed to be something

1 (16m 20s):
that every president reads every day.

3 (16m 23s):
And at this point us intelligence was much more confident that they were saying, this is serious. We have to pay attention.

1 (16m 29s):
Start formulating a response.

3 (16m 30s):
What is Trump do when he hears about this? Nothing? That's a really interesting point. And this is actually in some ways the Crux of the entire

1 (16m 38s):
controversy. So the White House is argument is the president was never briefed on this CIA director NSA National Security advisor in the chief of staff can all confirm and neither the president nor the vice president were briefed on the alleged brunch with Russian bouncy intelligence.

3 (16m 57s):
This is this is pretty clearly a

1 (16m 59s):
lie at this point, right? There's just very very good reporting and the Associated Press and the New York Times among other papers that President

3 (17m 6s):
Trump has received this information the February

1 (17m 8s):
27th date is really important

3 (17m 10s):
because That were not true. The White House would just leaked the president's Daily Brief right at the dock. It's a written document and it could easily disprove the times his allegations the fact

1 (17m 20s):
that they haven't done that

3 (17m 23s):
indicates that the times is, you know, they're they're pretty confident. They're reporting they probably either seen the document or

1 (17m 28s):
spoken to the person who wrote it or something like that.

3 (17m 32s):
So then we have one of two

1 (17m 33s):
possibilities about the president's reaction and this is really this is all speculation, but they're really logically are only two

3 (17m 40s):
one the Didn't didn't pay enough

1 (17m 42s):
attention to his pdb and his briefings to think about this which sounds outlandish except that everything we know about the Trump Administration internally suggests. The president really doesn't pay very much attention to what he's told you just like to hear

3 (17m 53s):
conflicting information. He made genuinely not

1 (17m 56s):
internalize important things.

3 (17m 58s):
So that would be one scandalous

1 (17m 59s):
possibility. The other one is that he paid attention. He heard with Bolton was saying he read the PDP but he chose to ignore it because he has had multiple calls with Russian President Vladimir Putin between February and today and he

3 (18m 18s):
does not seem to have raised the issue with Putin

1 (18m 21s):
wants as far as we can tell what should be the first thing that you would do. If you're an American president dealing with a scandal like this what you say is knock it off and that would be the normal first. Move before you escalate and in any kind of way,

3 (18m 34s):
so it seems like we basically have two options here right Trump. Didn't know or Trump didn't care correct

1 (18m 40s):
either one scandalous and we don't know which one

3 (18m 42s):
does. You know, this is all coming out. Well after Trump publicly said that Russia was not at all responsible for meddling in the election. Do you think Trump's kind of appeasing stance towards Russia is emboldening this kind of activity. I feel like it has to be so one thing that's known about Trump's handling of

1 (19m 5s):
intelligence that he's a very sensitive about anything

3 (19m 7s):
russia-related when he gets briefed on something like that. He has testy especially if it says the Russians are doing something bad. It's mad about

1 (19m 15s):
it does not. Appreciate being told that he has to deal negatively with Putin.

3 (19m 18s):
We also know that he's very friendly even deferential to Vladimir Putin during their

1 (19m 24s):
calls. This is thanks to

3 (19m 25s):
a recent CNN piece from Carl Bernstein that the you know during

1 (19m 28s):
these calls the president's national security staff have been humiliated and

3 (19m 32s):
embarrassed. By the way that

1 (19m 33s):
he has handled himself speaking two strong men and been Putin in

3 (19m 36s):
particular. So it makes sense that the Russians would feel like

1 (19m 39s):
they can do whatever they want because in a certain sense they

3 (19m 41s):
can are Republican members of Congress speaking out about this. So they seem upset about the underlying

1 (19m 47s):
plot. If it's true

3 (19m 49s):
Republican lawmakers took to Twitter with Senator Lindsey Graham saying it was imperative Congress get to the bottom of the reports while representative Liz Cheney demanded to know why the president wasn't briefed and what is being done to protect American forces and hold Putin accountable. This is something that's

1 (20m 6s):
bound to upset Republican elected officials and why wouldn't it right because a huge portion of the party's identity is standing up for the troops and caring about American National Security and being strong.

3 (20m 15s):
Issues and it's very

1 (20m 18s):
interesting to see how this will play out. Right? They I don't know if there will be Senate hearings on and I spoke to a Democratic senator yesterday Tammy Duckworth who said There Will Be she's

3 (20m 26s):
confident. Well, he spent his weekend golfing lying and making sure the buck stopped anywhere, but with him our troops in hot spots around the world were forced to wonder whether they might be next whether a bounty might be placed on their heads tomorrow and whether President Trump would even care enough to respond if that was The case

1 (20m 46s):
I am certain the house will do something about it and we'll see Democrats hauling somebody before the chamber to answer for it

3 (20m 55s):
the idea that somehow he didn't know or is it being briefed? It is a dereliction of Duty if that's the case and if he was briefed and nothing was done about this. That's a dereliction of Duty given everything that's going on right now. I mean a huge recession Nationwide protests, obviously a global pandemic This story going to break through we'll the American public and I guess especially Trump's base. Will they care? Yeah, the politics of It kind of confused me

1 (21m 26s):
is this orders of magnitude worse than what Trump did with Ukraine and the eyes of ordinary voters. I don't know some part of me

3 (21m 33s):
wonders. If for people who

1 (21m 35s):
are not super plugged into American politics and foreign

3 (21m 37s):
policy this kind of thing just sounds like a bunch of geopolitical maneuvering but on the other hand a huge

1 (21m 43s):
portion of the American public

3 (21m 45s):
cares. About the military and is deferential to the military as an institution, especially sort of

1 (21m 50s):
Centrist and right-leaning voters.

3 (21m 52s):
And so you'd think that the u.s. Government letting the Russians the Russians get away with with literal murder would matter to

1 (22m 0s):
them.

3 (22m 4s):
I struggle sometimes

1 (22m 5s):
with the nature of public response to scandals in a polarized political environment, but you're right that right now, you know once-in-a-generation pandemic and social justice movement at the same time is certainly sucking up a lot of political oxygen

3 (22m 23s):
Zack peacham is a co-host of the worldly podcast from Vox. I'm no I'm hassenfeld filling in for Sean Rama's firm. This is today explained. Before you go a quick word about rise.com. It's the all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage rise looks great. It's interactive. It's easy to use and most importantly it's secure with rise. You can create training from scratch or customized hundreds of pre-built lessons templates and Sample courses to build training even faster, see why you'll love Rise by starting a free 30-day trial at rise.com today.