0 (1s):
In, September Mohammed Ghalaieny. Left home in Manchester, England to visit his dad in Gaza. Mohammed had a life in Manchester. He's an atmospheric scientist, and he worked for the government on air quality policy. But he'd been away from Gaza for 20 years and he was thinking about moving home. This trip was like a tow in the water that things didn't go as planned for. Mohammed is probably very obvious.

1 (26s):
There's nowhere safe, nowhere feels safe. So. if nowhere feels safe, then you might as well say, what the hell? That's how I'm living my life right now.

0 (38s):
But Mohammed has something most Palestinians don't. He has a British passport. The question now is, will he flee to the rougher crossing and use it? Coming up. On today explained the one way out of Gaza.

Unexplainable podcast (1m 0s):
This week on Unexplainable, we investigate a surprisingly tricky question. Is it possible ice cream could be good for you? When I saw the number, I was like, ah. Like I just like literally screamed at my computer screen. I was like a little too on the nose, like I'm screaming for ice cream. Somehow it literally like made me just like squawk. This finding keeps popping up in studies, which made us wonder what is good for you even mean this week on unexplainable, the ice cream effect. New episodes every Wednesday follow unexplainable. Wherever you listen,

The Weeds (1m 36s):
If, you ask the experts, the economy is in pretty good shape. Unemployment is low and inflation is slowing. But you might not feel that good news in your wallet. A lot of people, a lot of voters, a lot of consumers, a lot of everyday people will say that the economy's on the wrong track. You know, why is that? And it's one of those things that has so many plausible answers. It's really hard to distinguish among them. I'm John Glen Hill and This week on The Weeds. Why everything is so expensive and when or if those prices will ever come down. New episodes every Wednesday.

8 (2m 18s):
This is today it's flight.

0 (2m 25s):
Early in the war, you'll recall that the Israeli army told people living in the north of Gaza to move south for safety. Mohammed Ghalaieny family was in the north. So there was a panic that had to do with the math of this situation. An evening deadline, 17 people and how to move them all. Starting with the family's small Fiat Panda. My

1 (2m 48s):
Father, his wife, my stepbrothers, and their, their grandparents and their two aunts went in this small car,

0 (3m 2s):
Eight people in the first car. Then a taxi arrived, five people and their belongings jammed into the taxi. And then in the last car, Mohammed his uncle, two more relatives and anything they could carry headed into the ruins of Northern Gaza.

1 (3m 18s):
And yeah, it was, it was, it was surreal because where we were was very, very empty, very isolated. And as we, you know, there were scenes of just bombing and destruction all around us. 'cause it, it'd been a, it'd been a week. It had been a week at this point. We'd been told that the, the boundary, I guess was the za a river that is five miles south of Gaza City. Yeah. And call me crazy, but I just needed space. So as soon as we got south of, I asked the taxi to stop and I, I just got out and told 'em to carry on it.

1 (4m 3s):
It wasn't without a fight. 'cause they were like, we're not le, we're leaving you here. I was like, look guys, this is the safe zone. I'm just gonna, I just need some space. I need to reflect on this tragedy. I walked for a few miles. I got to Nora, which is, you know, maybe 12 miles from Gaza. I stopped there for a bit. I bought some, some bread. I bought some, some canned goods, just general like supplies. I chatted to some people, made some phone calls, and then got a lift to uni. But, you know, I, I think I, I needed to pause to just look like, watch what was happening. It sounds stupid, but to sit, it was like a moment for me.

1 (4m 45s):
I guess I was sorry. It seems, seems indulgent, but I just needed to, I just needed some space and I need to kind of, to, to see what was going on. And it was a horrific kind of scenes in the sense of like, just people loaded in the back of trucks, kind of traveling in, in the back of trucks. It was scenes that were reminiscent of a neck burn in 1948. You know, people in on motorbikes or in tuk-tuks people, some people walking, some, some people on donkey carts. You know, if we fast forward to a few days ago now, when people have now been forced to walk across where there has, and perhaps even they're having to walk the whole distance from Ga Uni.

1 (5m 32s):
And the tragedy is just even bigger. You know, I spoke to my friend who they made the journey three days ago, and she related, you know, like seeing someone elderly that was not making it on the side of the road. There was a, an old man, she said who, you know, his, his young, you know, his grandchildren or sons were, were supporting him to make, make sure he didn't fall because anyone that stopped, they said was, was being shot by shot at, by the, the Israeli army that were at the crossing point. It's just a tragedy and a war crime that Israel is doing this, but also being allowed to do this.

1 (6m 17s):
You know, whoever in the international community, in quotes is supporting Israel in this is complicit in these war crimes. You know, Joe Biden, Rishi Sunna, the EU take heed. You've enabled war crimes, you're aiding and abetting ethnic cleansing.

0 (6m 39s):
I wanna ask you about the broader geopolitics in just a second, but after hearing your story, I do want to just confirm. Did you, were you able to reunite with your family?

1 (6m 51s):
I, I was, yeah, I know. It, it, it seems like ridiculous, but I just kind of felt I, we'd been indoors for the best part of a week and I just wanted space.

0 (7m 3s):
Again, we're talking about relative to here, but does it, do you feel your family are safer in the south? Safer than had they stayed?

1 (7m 13s):
I think you can only consider that on a minute by minute basis. Three days ago, I went to visit my aunt. She lives about a mile away from here. Her house has some solar panels, so I go and charge my phone there, and it's nice to see them and just have like a little change of scene. I walked into the house, sat down for 10 minutes, and then there was a massive explosion, dust and soil filled the, the house outside, but then also like, came in the windows blew out. My aunt's friend who was sheltering with her, was coming down the stairs.

1 (7m 57s):
She's 75 and she know she'd heard the first explosion, wasn't sure what was happening. And I kind of ushered her away from where the explosion had happened because I know that these things often come in twos or threes even. Thankfully it was only one. And as soon as we like, you know, we, we felt like a little bit safe in that living room. I, my thoughts immediately went to my cousin, who, you know, minutes before I'd seen him in the garden where the explosion had had happened, he was troubleshooting the water pump. So I was like, has he been caught in the explosion? And so we were all, you know, in a state of panic for a couple of minutes until we did, did a head count.

1 (8m 42s):
Everyone's fine. My cousin was there where the children, the children were in another house. And then there was more panic until we were sure that the children were okay. But do you see how, you know, in, in, in a, in another kind of timeline or in, in another series of events that could have been very different. There could have been children playing where that bomb and its debris went off and fell. My cousin could have been in the other part of the garden and so on and so on.

0 (9m 16s):
On October 7th, Hamas killed 1200 people in Israel and Israel declared war on Hamas. Can you tell me what went through your mind? You'd only been back in Gaza since September. What did you think at that point?

1 (9m 31s):
So I actually woke up at six 30. I was meant to go help with the olive harvest, and from my bedroom window I could see rocket fire. You know, I was looking south and there was all these kind of smoke trails heading east. And, and that went on for an hour. And I was like, oh shit, this is big. I wonder what's, what's happening Then, you know, news started filtering in and dribs and drabs that Zers had broken through. There, there were attacks on army bases and you know, at that point, that's kind of, that's to me within the right of an occupied people to defend themselves.

1 (10m 18s):
So, so, so, so, so far my mind is saying, great, we're fighting back. Wow. What a blow against the IDF. And then I guess more news starts filtering through of hostages. I guess what would, what would go through my mind at that point is, you know, Palestinian groups have often done as a way of freeing Palestinian prisoners. I'm not saying one justifies another, but in the end, Israel has us kind of in a, in a choke hold, and they're like a heavyweight fighter that's got us this kind of puny featherweight fighter in a choke hold.

1 (11m 2s):
I think eventually when we started hearing of civilian deaths, I guess my heart like sank. I wasn't, I wasn't happy to hear about civilian deaths. And I, you know, because, because I don't think civilians should be caught up in military action in any way.

0 (11m 21s):
Throughout this interview, I get, I get a strong sense of how you feel about Israel. Mm. I wanna ask you about Hamas. So Hamas has controlled Gaza for 16, almost 17 years, and you have not been a permanent resident of Gaza as you've said, you landed In September since then. What have you learned about what people in Gaza think about Hamas?

1 (11m 47s):
I think there is a perception after 16 years in power, you know, there's a degree of mismanagement, let's say. It's, it's really like, it's really hard to like, to put, to put your finger on what people feel, because I think people feel afraid. People, people feel like really, I guess worried about what, what's next. And you know, when they, when they, I guess interrogate Hamas as, as an organization, they'd be like, you know what, what, what, how did you see this playing out? Okay. I think, you know, a lot of people, you know, are, are angry at the fact that this has led to a massive humanitarian crisis that could have been averted.

1 (12m 32s):
But then, you know, on the other hand, a lot of people feel the way we were living or the way people were living was not a way to live under like a very underdeveloped economy because of this blockade and this inability to travel and trade freely

0 (12m 56s):
And Mohammed. You as a British citizen, you could get out. Why have you chosen to stay and and are you thinking that, are you thinking of

1 (13m 8s):
Leaving? I changed my mind every day. I mean, I still, there's still a window open for me to leave if I wanted to. I feel that I don't want to leave because this is home. I have a home in Manchester, but this is home. And I feel like if I, if I leave now, I won't be able to come back. Israel has precedent in that sense. When people left in 1948 and 67, a lot of people couldn't return. Obviously Palestine, Palestinians one of the biggest nations of refugees in the world.

1 (13m 48s):
That's the first point. And the second point is that I feel that I can be useful to my community here, both in terms of supporting people through this, you know, materially and psychologically, but also in terms of just being, I guess being a voice, but also kind of coordinating, getting people's voices out because, you know, we need, our stories need to be told and the more of us are here to tell them the better. And I know, you know, it goes against kind of logic in the sense that, but why don't you just go and tell your stories from outside?

1 (14m 30s):
Well, dunno, it doesn't, doesn't feel right.

0 (14m 47s):
That was Mohammed Ghalaieny in Han Yunis. Coming up The Rougher Crossing

NPR (14m 54s):
Support for today Explained comes from Up First. There are plenty of ways to get your news these days, so it helps to consider your regular sources. A lot of us wake up and hop on Facebook, Twitter, or rather x, TikTok or any other platform, but we're relying on social media to keep up with The Times can be a slippery slope in more ways than one If. you wanna replace your endless morning dooms groves and alleviate your news fatigue, then you ought to check out Up First from NPR. Up First gives you the top three news stories to start your day delivered in digestible 10 to 15 minute episodes. That's all the news you need in the morning so you can get back to your life and feel informed. Up First can guide you through the news cycle each morning, so you can save your energy for the rest of your day. From geopolitics to tech news and beyond. You can keep tabs on everything that's happening in the world. Listen now to Up First from NPR wherever you get your podcasts.

Deleteme (15m 54s):
Support for today Explained comes from Deleteme. A lot of our personal information is stored online. Our work info, our banking info, some of our personal info, all of this information could just be out there if you've been hacked or phished and in the wrong hands, well, you know where this ends up. Deleteme offers a way to keep your personal information personal according to the company. They can identify and erase your data from online data brokers ensuring that it can't be sold anymore. Sarah Frank, one of my colleagues here at Vox who works on the business side of things, got a chance to try out Deleteme. I Recently had the opportunity to test out Deleteme and they did an incredibly thorough report of more than 50 places around the internet that had lots of my personal information. They proactively removed my information from a lot of sites and gave me a quick tutorial on how to remove my phone number and address from the remaining data brokers. Right now, you can get 20% off your Delete Me Plan when you go to join Deleteme dot com slash today and use promo code today. The only way to get 20% off is go to join Deleteme dot com slash today and enter promo code today at the checkout. That's join Deleteme dot com slash today. Promo code today.

0 (17m 15s):
It's today explained in the days after Israel started its ground invasion of Gaza, a lot of eyes turned to Gaza's border with Egypt to the Rafah Crossing. Here's US Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken

12 (17m 28s):
Rafah will be, will be open. We're putting in place with the United Nations, with Egypt, with Israel, with others, the mechanism by which to get the assistance in and to get it to the people who need it.

0 (17m 40s):
Mohaned Sri is an independent journalist and a scholar at King's College in London. He wrote a book about the Sinai Peninsula. This is the Desert region where the Rafah Crossing is located.

13 (17m 50s):
My book's title is Sinai Egypt's Linchpin, Gaza's Lifeline Israel's Nightmare.

0 (17m 55s):
Can you tell us what the Rafah Crossing is exactly?

13 (17m 58s):
The Sinai Peninsula at Borders, both the Gaza Strip and Israel, and in the middle of this border stands the Rafah Crossing Terminal, which is the official terminal controlled on the Egyptian side by the Egyptian authorities and on the Gaza side by the Palestinian authorities. It looks like an ordinary land crossing between two countries, just like any land crossing you'd find between Egypt and Libya or between the United States and Mexico. But the significance of the Rafah crossing is that it is the only land access into the Gaza Strip and outside of the Gaza Strip that is not controlled by the Israeli military and the Israeli authorities.

13 (18m 38s):
It plays, it plays the only actual role that happens to help the outside of the very extremely strict blockade policies imposed by Israel. The Raha terminal became the only hope for Gaza to get out into the world. To give you a very simple example, if a Gaza person wants to travel anywhere in the world, they have only one option to cross the Rafah terminal into Egypt and to fly from Egypt or travel from Egypt to anywhere else. They don't have that option on the Israeli side. It is simply the Gaza Strip is only wind due to the world that is not completely militarized and controlled by the Israeli authorities.

0 (19m 26s):
Is the Rafah crossing always open?

13 (19m 29s):
No, unfortunately no. The, the, the Rafah crossing has, has always been affected by the situation in the Gaza Strip, especially the security situation. If there's any war happening, of course the terminal gets completely disrupted and it becomes a matter of extreme security restrictions on the movement into and outside of the terminal. Also, Israel has, on many occasions in different wars and in this recent war has always bombed in and around the Rafah crossing of both the Palestinian and the Egyptian sides. Also, it's subject to the policies and the foreign policy of Egypt as well. So at times of, let's say heated arguments between the Egyptian side, the Egyptian government, and the Gaza authorities, the Hamas authorities, we see a complete closure of the Raha terminal by the Egyptian side.

13 (20m 23s):
So

14 (20m 23s):
Egypt in fact, is cracking down on Hamas since the new Egyptian government has taken over. They've closed all those borders. And so what,

13 (20m 30s):
Since the beginning of this war, Israel has declared a complete Xi j Gaza.

15 (20m 37s):
He here now from the Israeli defense minister who spoke earlier,

16 (20m 41s):
We are putting a complete siege on Gaza, no electricity, no food, no water, no gas, it's all closed.

13 (20m 53s):
The only possible way to break that siege is to open the Raha terminal. And Israel is well aware of this. So it simply threatened the Egyptian side that if the Egyptian side opens the terminal unilaterally and pushes in humanitarian convoys, Israel will bomb the the convoys. And of course, Egypt was stuck in a situation of either to escalate and risk pushing in convoys that would end up being bombed and the, the, the death of more humanitarian workers or to simply try to navigate this very, this very heated situation in a more diplomatic, more safe manner.

17 (21m 31s):
More than a hundred trucks with humanitarian supplies are waiting on the Egypt side of the Rafah crossing. It's hoped the first 20 trucks will start moving into GA as soon, but it's unclear exactly when the entry of a trucks was part of an agreement that President Biden brokered.

13 (21m 49s):
And this is why since the beginning of this war, what has gone into Gaza through the Rafah crossing is literally 3% or less than the actual needs of the Gaza Strip. And when we say actual needs here, we're, we're talking about calculations of peace, time, the needs of 2.3 million people, which of course are much less than the needs of a completely devastated community that we see now after a month before.

0 (22m 20s):
Earlier we heard from a man whose family, including him, have British citizenship and as a result they could get out. Can any Palestinians get out if they don't have citizenship elsewhere? And do we presume with diplomatic negotiations they might be able to at some point?

13 (22m 40s):
Okay, the first question, no Palestinian without a foreign nationality can cross the Raha terminal just freely at any time. And at the time of war, the RAHA terminal is closed for civilians, with the exception of what Egypt considers special cases. Special cases. Here are people with foreign nationalities, And. we have to bear in mind that those are not full-time residents of the Gaza Strip. But for the ordinary Gaza, it is an open air prison. Ordinary Gaza cannot go anywhere without the security permission of Israel and Egypt. And if they don't get that permission, they are not going anywhere. If diplomatic pressure happens, it depends on what we mean by diplomatic pressure here.

13 (23m 22s):
Diplomatic pressure to what exactly to allow the Palestinians to flee under firepower and run into Egypt. This could be interpreted and is being interpreted as taking part, participating in a crime of ethnic cleansing.

19 (23m 42s):
Egypt has affirmed and is reiterating its vehement rejection of the forced displacement of the Palestinians and their transfer to Egyptian lands in Sinai. As this will mark the last gasp in the liquidation of the Palestinian cause. Shatter the dream of an independent Palestinian state and squander the struggle of the Palestinian people and that of the Arab and Islamic people.

20 (24m 6s):
We should say there's a lot of real politik here. You know, in Egypt for example, the economy is really, really struggling. They do not want to take the burden of hundreds of thousands, millions of Palestinians from Gaza Mika, we should say.

0 (24m 19s):
Let me ask you, Leslie, for people who do make it across the rougher crossing into Egypt, what awaits them there is the idea they get across the border and then go back to the countries where they hold citizenship immediately. What does it actually look like at the moment?

13 (24m 36s):
Oh yeah, this is exactly how you described it. They, they are allowed by the Egyptian authorities, not allowed. They are demanded by the Egyptian authorities to, to leave Egypt within a window of 72 hours from their entrance to Rafah. So if an American Palestinian comes in through the Rafah terminal into Egypt, they are put on buses, directly travel to Cairo and are allowed 72 hours to pack their bags and leave to wherever they're going. This is not the usual case because Palestinian dual citizens can stay in Egypt to a tourist visa. They can stay in Egypt on the exceptional allowances for pa for holders of Palestinian nationality.

13 (25m 19s):
But in this case, because Egypt sees the pressure that is trying to force it to accept Palestinian refugees as an incentive for it to basically tell any Palestinian, even those with the dual nationality, that you have 72 hours on Egyptian soil and you have to leave as soon as you get into Egypt.

0 (25m 48s):
That was Mohaned Sri. He's the author of Sinai Egypt's linchpin, Gaza's Lifeline, Israel's nightmare. As for Mohammed Ghalaieny family, his mother and sister crossed through Rafah a few days after the war started and they're back in the uk. His father and brothers arrived at Rafah a week ago to find their names on a list of people who'd been approved to leave and their in Cairo. His stepmother, Nadia, after being turned away, just learned that her name is on that list. When we talked to Mohammed a few hours ago, Nadia was at the rougher crossing and bound for Cairo. He remains in Gaza.

0 (26m 30s):
Today's show was produced by Halima Shaw and Amanda Lewellyn. It was edited by Amina ELs. Rob Byers is our engineer, And. we had fact checking from Laura Bullard and Victoria Chamberlin. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.