2 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from the financial times in particular their 2020 election coverage, which might be the best reporting. You're not reading right now. Maybe you are in which case great job, but if you're not the journalist at the financial times are breaking down everything that might happen in November and forecasting how different results would change America's response to the health and economic emergencies were currently in to read more about the election and a lot of other things that you should be reading about. ft.com / new agenda today Google's free tools are designed to help millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working.

2 (46s):
And right. Now these businesses could use our help support. The place is near you by booking an appointment buying a gift card reading a review more ordering takeout all With a Little Help from Google. Before we start a quick warning about today's show. It's all about fake news how to diagnose it how to avoid it how to combat it send this episode to everyone who sends you this information. All right. Let's go

4 (1m 19s):
20 20 2012

2 (1m 30s):
It's a explained I'm Sean rameswaram. I got an uncle who emails me a lot of fake news stuff about President Trump stuff about President Obama's stuff about protesters destroying Catholic churches. Sometimes there are elements of Truth in what he sends me, but you really got to excavate them and when the stuff he sends me is just infuriatingly fake. I right back. I challenged him to do a little research to dig but he never responds but I like giving up so so today we're going to do some digging for all the uncles out there on the show because the election is coming and the commander-in-chief himself is spreading disinformation about black lives matter about Joe Biden about Kenosha.

2 (2m 12s):
It's a good time to brush up on your media literacy and day Zhang is here to help we get

3 (2m 18s):
questions about fake news quite often

2 (2m 20s):
actually believe it or not. He's a friendly neighborhood

3 (2m 23s):
librarian in Seattle, and it was really in 2016 during The presidential election cycle when we really started getting a lot of people coming into the library and calling into the library asking about things that were showing up on their social media accounts new stories that they were here that often times sounded very extreme or Sensational and they just weren't sure whether it was credible or not. And so we really put our skills to the test and we decided to create this class called fake news Survival

2 (3m 1s):
Guide the fake news Survival Guide. Yes,

4 (3m 8s):
it's fake phony fake. It's all fake news fake fake disgusting news. So the fake new Survival

3 (3m 16s):
Guide is the course that we teach at the Seattle Public Library. So misinformation disinformation memes how to evaluate what people are Being on their news feeds on their social media accounts online.

2 (3m 34s):
How long is the class? Is it like a week-long seminar? Is it just like an hour-long session? Can we do it right now in this episode? Could you just be the teacher and I'll be the

4 (3m 42s):
student? It's a two-hour

2 (3m 45s):
class. Okay, so we have to do a condensed version.

3 (3m 47s):
Yes, we do. So I won't throw out

2 (3m 51s):
everything. How does a class start what do you open

3 (3m 55s):
with? I actually start out with this picture of Abraham Lincoln and I put up a fake quote that says

2 (4m 1s):
never trust a quote you read in a fake news class.

3 (4m 8s):
That's perfect. So I talked about how I created this meme in like two minutes and with a click of a button I can spread it online and it just illustrates how easy it is for us to create content and to share widely. Anybody with an internet connection

2 (4m 26s):
was fake news something we talked about before Donald Trump. Can you

3 (4m 30s):
remind us it started? I think late 2015 early 2016 and a lot of people associated with Donald Trump because he used the term often and I'm the one that came up with

4 (4m 41s):
the term. I'm very proud

3 (4m 42s):
of it. He just certainly popularized the term, but it came out and I think late 2015 when a news organization started reporting. On this prevalence of fake online articles BuzzFeed uncovered an unlikely breeding ground for some of the fake news sites more than a hundred websites in one small town in central

2 (5m 6s):
Macedonia. That's right Macedonia

3 (5m 9s):
and specifically these websites were popping up that were under the guise of authentic news organizations and they started pumping out these fake news articles. There's this FBI agent suspected in Hillary emails.

2 (5m 24s):
Found dead of an apparent murder-suicide from the Denver Guardian. The problem is there is no such thing as the Denver guardian

3 (5m 31s):
and they started gaining a lot of traction online through social media going viral to the point where during the 2016 election cycle fake news articles were shared more often on Facebook than real news articles One Man Behind These hoaxes told the Washington Post. There's

4 (5m 49s):
nothing you can't write about now that people

3 (5m 51s):
won't believe adding that trumps campaign. Pain manager posted my story about a protester getting paid $3,500 as fact

2 (5m 60s):
like I made

3 (6m 1s):
that up in 2016 the top fake news article shared on Facebook had the headline Pope Francis shocks the world endorses Donald Trump for president, which didn't happen. It did not happen. No, this was from a quote-unquote fantasy news

2 (6m 21s):
website. Well, at least they're honest about

3 (6m 24s):
Pharisee part. Yeah, well, they don't present it up front. But if you went in the about section of their website, they call themselves fantasy news.

2 (6m 33s):
We're talking about fake news headlines on Facebook. Is it because Facebook is the chief distributor of fake news.

3 (6m 42s):
Yes. That's one of the main platforms. I mean, it's the most widely used platform in the world, right? But there's certainly not the only platform there's Twitter there's Instagram there's messaging apps like WhatsApp my mom. She uses WeChat. It's very popular messaging service with Asians in particular. I was having a conversation with her and she said that she's encountering like a lot of people sharing like fake new stories with her. And so it's just kind of everywhere where people are connecting and sharing information this misinformation and disinformation.

3 (7m 24s):
Information is showing up and I like to use more specific terms like misinformation disinformation rather than fake news. Big news is kind of like a hook to get someone in the conversation and start talking about it. But everyone kind of has a different conception of what fake news is in a different definition and a lot of times it's politicized but I really encourage people to drill down a little deeper and describe what they're actually seeing is the This propaganda is this you know misinformation. Is it just like a headline? That doesn't match the content. Is it lazy reporting or is it something that's actually designed to deceive for a political purpose or monetary purpose.

3 (8m 9s):
So there's just such a deeper conversation to be had and just the term fake news doesn't quite capture it

2 (8m 16s):
all. Yeah, I mean that feels like a huge lesson right there fake news is some catchphrase that. Donald Trump popularized but this is life or death stuff this disinformation misinformation that spreads online, you know, WhatsApp disinformation can lead to Muslims being killed in Sri Lanka Q&A on conspiracy. Theories can lead to a guy walking into a pizza restaurant in DC and pursuit of a an imaginary pedophile ring, and then he opens

3 (8m 46s):
fire absolutely conspiracy theories aren't new, but they're gaining more and more traction. And a lot of it is frankly these social media platforms pushing people towards more and more extreme content. Like I use the example of this professor that was talking to his son is really into like Space and Science and so they were watching a YouTube video from the International Space Station and the very next video that auto-populated was a About Flat Earth theory and pushing that conspiracy so you can be watching very legitimate credible information and yet the algorithms are pushing you towards more and more extreme content.

3 (9m 44s):
This happens to everybody because it's in people's financial interest to get you to click and to get you to engage to get you to buy and to get you to buy in to the information. They're pushing and oftentimes. They really do know your triggers. They really do understand that if you're from a certain political bent, then you're going to react or you're gonna accept information from a certain point of view. More easily and you're not going to question. So I really try to instill this idea that we need to stop we need to investigate and we need to question our own biases before we share.

3 (10m 27s):
That's because your librarian and Librarians are heroes. No, but I try I appreciate

1 (10m 33s):
that.

2 (10m 48s):
After the break day teaches us and our uncle's how to combat this information

1 (10m 53s):
online.

2 (11m 9s):
Support for the show today comes from Babel. Did you learn a new language over the Labor Day long weekend me neither, but I did complete a puzzle with the help of a few other people. So there's that but anyway babbled can get you speaking truly really speaking a new language in weeks. They got these 10 to 15 minute lessons that are thoughtfully created by language experts folks and these language experts they've got teaching methods that have been scientifically proven to be effective. If across multiple studies, they even have speech recognition technology that helps improve your pronunciation and accent right now when you purchase a three-month subscription Babble will give you today explained listener three additional months for free with the promo code explained that if you didn't hear it or passed out is three additional months for free if you go to babble.com and use the promo code explained on your three months.

2 (12m 7s):
subscription ba BBE l.com promo code explained Did you order any delicious food using one of those apps over the long weekend? I mean asking because I care that you're eating good food. But also because caviar is supporting the show today and caviar has whatever kind of food. You're in the mood for pizza Sushi Falafel dim. Sum how in this dim sum. Anyway, it's all available on the caviar app with delivery from your favorite local restaurants you can Download the app for yourself right now.

2 (12m 48s):
You can stay safe inside and get the tasty food. You actually want to eat from your favorite spots and just for our today explained listeners right now caviar is giving you 20% off your first order. All you have to do is enter the promo code today at checkout. Remember that is 20% off your first order with the promo code today when you download that caviar app and use the offer code. Code today, you're going to get 20% off. Dim sum how I missed him some.

2 (13m 31s):
Okay, they getting back to your fake new Survival Guide what tips do you give people to not just combat fake news? They find online but the stuff in you know, chats and emails and texts chains and all that stuff. So I

3 (13m 47s):
give three quick tips. Number one read listen watch critically before sharing number to check the source. number 3 check the support

2 (14m 7s):
Okay, three essential tips engage very critically with what you're reading check sources and then check supports like who's being quoted where the where the information is coming from

3 (14m 20s):
Etc. Exactly. So they did a study in 2016 that revealed 59% of Twitter links were shared without clicking

1 (14m 29s):
through

3 (14m 33s):
People were encountering these headlines that really grab them emotionally and they felt like they had to share with all their followers of their friends and they actually didn't read the article. So the best thing we can do is to actually click through read it in full ask ourselves. Does this make sense has a fact-checking website done a report on this story.

2 (15m 4s):
What are some fact-checking sites for people out there who aren't

3 (15m 7s):
familiar for political content. I really like PolitiFact, but my all-time favorite is Snopes classic. Yeah, they have a long history of debunking myths, you know. See theories even gossip and what I love about snopes is they show all their homework it just like any good journalist or fact-checking website. Would they lay out the claim they rate it but then they show you exactly where this story came from. What's the support behind it? Whether there is any support so they really show you every step that they took to rate this

2 (15m 46s):
claim. Okay, so that's how to engage a little More critically, what about checking the source how to regular people who are just reading the news casually on Facebook of all places check

3 (15m 58s):
sources, right? The key is to not engage on Facebook. It's the actually go to where the article hosted who has written the article. What do you know about this author? Have they written other articles? Does it even have an author listed exactly if they don't that could be a red flag and if they do list off

4 (16m 19s):
They're

3 (16m 19s):
often times. They'll give kind of a bio of where the author has worked and other Publications they've written for and what other articles they posted. Where did this journalist get training who have they worked for who is the publisher? Do they have an established reputation? Did they, you know, just show up in the last few years or they establish news organization follow the trail of breadcrumbs and follow where the information Animation is

2 (16m 49s):
coming from and then the third tip you give people is to check the support for the article. What does that mean?

3 (16m 58s):
So what I mean by support is what evidence do they give often times? They'll quote an expert. And in that case you can check who is this person? Are they authoritative do they actually have a degree and if they're listing quotes like for example from a Conference can you actually find video or a transcript of that press conference did this person actually say that and so we really have to create a culture of conscious consumption skeptical consumption and skeptical

1 (17m 34s):
sharing.

2 (17m 37s):
Other red flags that can make this easier are there things that people can look out for that are sort of signs that you might be encountering some this information online.

3 (17m 47s):
Yes. So some red flags would be the headline is very Sensational or politically charged. It may use Caps or excessive punctuation. The language might be extreme or opinionated if it's super easy to share if it's designed for easy sharing such as a meme. I'm super super skeptical of memes and I almost never share them just because it's just that image and anybody could have created it. It's almost impossible to trace where it began. And another thing I talk about is a DOT

2 (18m 24s):
codomain like.com without the M.

3 (18m 27s):
Exactly so dot Kosar newer to the game. They've been around for only about 10 years. It's a lot easier and a lot cheaper to get a DOT co-domain. I use the example of abcnews.com Co which was one of the biggest fake news websites in

2 (18m 48s):
2016 abcnews.com dotco. It's got like two suffixes,

3 (18m 54s):
right? This website was masquerading as ABC News and finally if it contains a claim that it has a secret the media that government big business. Ever doesn't want you to know about and that they're the only one who has access to this information what the mainstream media was afraid to tell you about the news this

2 (19m 17s):
week. The media does not want you to know the shocking thing that

3 (19m 21s):
Barack Obama said about Donald Trump

2 (19m 23s):
back in 1991 will reveal that in a moment. You guys have always asked me what see what your Source on this and I can't send you to a link because it's my own proprietary work with the cdc's actual

3 (19m 35s):
data. That is a big red flag. Egg and it essentially is them saying you can't fact check me, you know, no one else has this and you should

2 (19m 44s):
trust me. I guess I actually just recently read that Facebook is going to start paying more attention and putting more eyes on articles that get a ton of attention very quickly and this and that might be a way to combat the spread of this information, especially about this pandemic that we're all going through right now and when I heard that news or read that Was I kind of thought well, they weren't doing that

3 (20m 9s):
already, right? Yeah, Facebook has tried a number of things like partnering with Zach Checkers and things like that, but it's clear now that we didn't do enough to prevent these tools from being used for harm as well. And that goes for fake

2 (20m 26s):
news for foreign interference in elections and hate speech as

3 (20m 29s):
well as developers and data privacy.

2 (20m 32s):
We didn't take a broad enough view of our responsibility

3 (20m 36s):
and that was a big mistake and it was my mistake and I'm sorry but so far the track record isn't great. And I do worry that we're going to get intellectually lazy or just rely on technology or rely on this company or that company to solve this problem for us. You know, I kind of use the example of email spam right? It's been around forever. And we still get it in our inbox and even though we have spam filters that get better and better at detecting it the spammers get better and better at getting around those filters. And so as always gonna be this issue where we're trying to stay on top of it, but there's just so much money and so much incentive in fooling people and so at the end of the day, I really try to teach this idea of personal conscious consumption.

3 (21m 32s):
Ocean and like when I share I try to check every bit of the article and I can't do that with every article I read and so I might only share one article day or one every couple days, but I really try to do my homework if I'm sharing something because that's my responsibility. I don't want to be pushing something fake out

2 (21m 54s):
there. And what about when that doesn't work? What about when you write to your uncle and you say hey man, I'm not sure about the sources in the You sent me in fact, you know, the article doesn't have any sources. Have you considered looking into this article or this writer who seems to be an expert on the subject? And then you know your uncle just stone walls you and doesn't say anything. Well

3 (22m 16s):
sure. Of course, there's there's plenty of people who have made their minds up already and they're not open to new information. And in those cases you kind of have to just accept that that's where they are. But at the same time I would say, you know, you have a relationship. A ship with your uncle and over time, you know trust is a two-way street and respect is a two-way street. So as long as we have those in place, I really think there is opportunity for influence and for connection. There's going to be times where someone is immovable, but I think you know if we create a culture of dialogue and a culture of not putting someone down for their views, but trying to understand and then sharing your own views and coming together and being like hey, so why do you believe that?

3 (23m 10s):
Oh, here's what I believe and here's why then we can start, you know sharing the common ground and finding that common ground and at the same time opening each other's eyes

2 (23m 22s):
great. And if that doesn't work, we can maybe send them your fake news Survival Guide

3 (23m 27s):
sure. Any resource can potentially help

1 (23m 30s):
right?

2 (23m 38s):
They Zhang is a librarian at the Seattle Public Library. You can find a link to his fake news Survival Guide as a PDF. In today's show transcript. Those are at vox.com today explained will also share it for you on Twitter or Twitter is today underscore explained stay safe. Stay skeptical. Hi, I'm Avery troubleman and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast Network

3 (24m 19s):
every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style

2 (24m 26s):
self culture and Power in our first episode. We're looking at what it means to be optimistic in 2020. You can listen And subscribe to the cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen.