1 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from the Thera gun it purely exists to help relieve your muscle pain and tension its raison d'etre. Is that how that's pronounced will find out tribe their gun risk free for 30 days. There is no substitute for the fair gun Gen4. It's got an OLED screen if LED wasn't good enough. It's got a personalized therapy GunApp. If just that their gun wasn't good enough and it's got the quiet power. You need the beragon. Jen for starts at a hundred and ninety nine dollars Bob go to therapy on.com slash explained right now to check it out. Support for the show today comes from who we are a Chronicle of racism in America.

1 (44s):
It's a new podcast by Ben & Jerry's spaced on ACLU Deputy legal director, Jeffrey Robinson's acclaimed presentation of the same name who we are we'll break down the origins and the ongoing impact of white supremacy on our elections Health Care economy and much more new episodes are on Tuesdays and you can find it wherever you find your podcasts right now.

1 (1m 24s):
Months ago on the show. I said something like anything that was bad before is worse in 2020 and the West Coast's wildfires are no exception 10% of Oregon warned or ordered to evacuate more than 3 million Acres burned in California the worst air quality in the world from San Francisco North to Vancouver smoke wafting across the entire continent and if that weren't bad enough a Who wants to deny this has anything to do with year after year of record-setting heat on a warming Planet? But that particular element is nothing new and it's not helping anything today.

1 (2m 9s):
We're going to hear from a helper a hero.

2 (2m 12s):
My name is Glen Hayden. I work for the u.s. Forest Service as a wildland firefighter. I've been doing it for 16 years now currently. I'm on the fork fire on the El Dorado National Forest. I've kind of been fighting fire my backyard here and California for a long time. Now

1 (2m 30s):
tell me what your life has been like the past few weeks

2 (2m 33s):
really busy for our crew kind of we're off rotations. So normally we were out on two-week assignments and we come back. We need a couple days off we go for two week assignment and we've already worked I think 91 hours overtime this two week off rotation

1 (2m 49s):
period And I think everyone has some idea of What firefighters are doing to fight these wildfires? But I'm sure there's a lot of things that you do that people have no conception of can you just tell us what fighting a wildfire

2 (3m 6s):
involves there's kind of a couple stages of It kind of the first stage and the most exciting in the part that kind of gets all the news coverage is the normally initial attack of it. The really exciting part where there's a big flames and all the smoke and that's And put hooks a lot of people into this job. Is that kind of exciting part and for us the first couple days of this fire was was pretty intense. It was huge flame lengths the wind was howling. We were picking up spot Fires for the first 24-48 hours. It was it was a really aggressive fire fight, but then kind of at the second stage of firefighting kicks in the wind dies down the we're able to kind of get it hold on it and that's kind of the long slog of firefighting that that is the unglamorous part.

2 (3m 54s):
The mop-up work the digging in the dirt to kind of extinguish every last little Amber the hand feeling sections of the line where name of the day you're just covered with soot and Ash and dirt and sweat and and that's probably 90% of of the actual firefighting work is the securing those control lines after the main flaming front has passed. What exactly is a line for people who don't know that's pretty much where we hold the fire. We get hand tools and we'll scrape away a foot or two a mineral soil and that can be our control lines a dozer can come through and push the big section down to Mineral soil and that'll be a control line. It can be a road.

2 (4m 35s):
It's just the line that we choose that we're going to try to hold it. This is where we're going to make our stand. And while you're doing that cleanup work, are you inhaling smoke are you? Oh, yeah. Are you putting yourself at risk or does it feel like, you know safe we make it as safe as possible we go through and we take off at all. The hazard trees are all the anything that could potentially hurt us in our work environment. Try to try to minimize that but yeah, it's still still extremely smoky. It's still you're digging through Ash and there's just clouds of Kind of ash and soot around you.

2 (5m 17s):
There's still the hazard of the fire itself. And that's just kind of something that we have to deal with this kind of why firefighters retire early. They acknowledge. This is kind of part and parcel of it. My wife always says, why don't you guys wear a mask like just try wearing a mask, but but wearing a mask for the hours that we work and the type of Labor we do it either be covered in Ash within the first hour or you fill up with sweat and it's not a not a very functional alternative unfortunately. So you mentioned that you've been doing this for 16 Seasons 16

1 (5m 56s):
years what's changed over 16 years of wildfires

2 (6m 4s):
the pace and the length of the season are the main things. We have kind of the six-year drought a few years back that it's kind of sort of ended and kind of ever since then our seasons have gotten longer. It's gone. They used to be the first week of November. You could reliably this fire season was done sometimes Was earlier but it was always always around then it was it wasn't a question of who was probably over the last years we've gone to Thanksgiving. There's been assignments available and in December and it's just extended kind of longer and longer each year. And and this year's is by far the worst I've experienced and what do you see as the biggest cause for these things getting worse weather is always kind of the primary driver of fire.

2 (6m 54s):
So if we have bad weather bad winds extremely dry conditions, you're going to get big fires. Another big factor is just people have moved into the woods people are are everywhere and kind of that combination makes makes firefighting difficult. It makes a prescribed fire difficult definitely was combination of factors are making things more of an issue for fighting fire.

1 (7m 21s):
Yeah, I mean How many more years of this do you think you have in

2 (7m 25s):
you as many as my body will allow me. I I love the job and I love the adventure of it. I love being outdoors. I love the camaraderie of being with the crew and until my knees or my back or something tells me I have to have to stop I'm gonna keep doing it. So it doesn't sound like you

1 (7m 46s):
you ever regret becoming a

2 (7m 48s):
firefighter. No, I at this point. I couldn't really imagine doing anything. Sometimes Ponder what I would do when I retire like like get a little coffee shop and work part-time or do something but but yeah being outdoors and doing this type of work. It's it's highly addictive for certain types of personalities, but of a bit of a thrill, yeah, I think you have to be a certain type of crazy to do this job. There's plenty of jobs that pay a lot more and you work a lot less. It's not as difficult you sleep on the dirt a lot. You're dirty all the time. You get more tired than you've ever been in your life at least once a season but the benefits of it are our adventure and helping people in their time of need and doing service for your community.

2 (8m 37s):
So there's a lot of at least in my mind those those pluses massively outweigh the that small sufferings we go through

1 (8m 44s):
does your wife feel the same way as you do or she worried about you up there in those Hills

2 (8m 49s):
she worries. She she always worries. With that one day off in the last 21 days and I've been home five of those nights. So we just don't see each other that often sometimes which is hard but we try to make up for it during the winters and during the times that we're not not busy when you're at work you kind of put on the workplace and to do what has to be done. And then when I go home, I really kind of cultivate laziness and cultivation be able to relax And and kind of do the opposite of what I do at work.

1 (9m 28s):
Do you feel like when you guys head up there to fight these wildfires that you're fully supported do you feel like you have everything you need with the exception of this

2 (9m 38s):
year? Yes. What happened this year Well normally for a fire this size that we have that I'm on right now. We would easily have double or triple the resources to help us out. But because everybody's on Fires, there's just not not anybody left and it's like that all across California. Everybody's just kind of making do with what they have. It's a very weird year in that sense.

1 (10m 3s):
If you could, you know call up Governor Gavin Newsom and say and make any request. What would it be?

2 (10m 10s):
I don't know if he can magically make more firefighters if you could that'd be awesome, but I don't think this is something that we can just fire fight away. In the long term, we need more prescribed fire. We can't necessarily fix the climate real quick. We're going to be dealing with with these fires for a long time. We're going to have to have communities and people really invested in in fire prevention and I don't think just getting more and more firefighters. I mean that's one solution, but I think we need is a people to look for. for more long-term reliable Solutions

1 (10m 56s):
Well, I really appreciate you making time to speak with us Glenn.

2 (10m 59s):
I hope you stay safe and I hope you

1 (11m 2s):
get a very long and lazy winter to relax with your wife when the season's over.

2 (11m 9s):
I will thank you. I hope so too. Really appreciate your time. And are you fighting fires today? Yep, we're going to be back out on the line here written probably 30 or 40 minutes. Okay. Well good luck. Godspeed and be safe. All right. Well, thank you very much. Thanks for your time. Glen has found ways to cope with the wildfires strategies for everyone else in a minute.

1 (12m 0s):
Support for their salary comes from Sun basket. If you've been spending this six months of you know, the pandemic trying to eat better or if you've been eating worse, but hope to maybe start eating better the sun basket can help. It's got an enormous menu of tasty easy to prepare recipes that will hopefully make you feel good about what you're eating. Every box comes packed with organic produce Source from small farms and fresh meat that's Were treated with antibiotics or hormones or steroids or there's totally vegetarian options if that's your thing and there's recipes from all over the world. There's this Korean stuff. There's Malaysian stuff. You name it some basket lets you explore your palates without ever even leaving to go to the store right now.

1 (12m 47s):
Some basket is offering $35 off your order when you go to Sun basket.com explain and enter the promo code explained at check out. Again. That is Sun basket.com. Explained and enter the promo code explained at checkout for $35 off your order Bob. Consumers for safe CBD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products. They tested were mislabeled some of them contains more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed ends nearly 20 products contained th see the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe.

1 (13m 32s):
CBD is calling on the FDA. They to regulate the CBD Market to protect consumers from potential harms posed by untested products though. The FDA has issued warnings. This is not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat a wide range of serious medical conditions. Remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for CBD dot-org, that's the number for sa Fe CBD Dot o-- r-- g-- the wildfires are traumatic for the people close to them and people of far and it's dr.

1 (14m 23s):
Best. Jaworski's job to help. She's a social psychologist at the national Center for PTSD which in 2020 means she makes apps to help people deal with their emotions a few years ago. She designed one for people in Sonoma California after wildfires tour through that region. I asked her what's distinct about the trauma of wildfires. I think the the silver Ending here is that most individuals who experience these kind of traumas do not actually go on to develop clinically diagnosable Disorder. So things like post traumatic stress disorder major depression, but I do think that disasters can be really really destabilizing

2 (15m 7s):
orange skies on Wednesday have morphed into a concrete gray layer of smoke and Ash and tonight conditions went from bad to dangerous across the bay

1 (15m 16s):
area. You might be more angry. Re and irritable than usual you might feel really anxious or nervous

2 (15m 21s):
hundreds of families have lost their homes

1 (15m 23s):
in the Bay Area wildfires

2 (15m 25s):
with entire towns reportedly wiped out and hundreds under evacuation

1 (15m 29s):
orders, you know, you could imagine someone who has had to evacuate his found out that they've lost their home and now they're in temporary shelter. They're being asked to perhaps fill out paperwork for insurance and that is incredibly difficult as Who has been a lot of time in higher education and who works for the federal government? I'm no stranger to paperwork and forms, and I think they're complicated, right? Okay, so short term it's going to be a tough road, but the trauma isn't long term, but what about the trauma of all these wildfires in 2020 when you when you layer it on top of the US has more confirmed coronavirus cases than any other country in the world on top of Across the Nation protesters continue to flow.

1 (16m 17s):
Did the streets from coast to coast

2 (16m 19s):
demanding Justice for George Floyd and on top of that a powerful hurricane hurricanes wildfires flooding and extreme

1 (16m 27s):
heat. I mean, this is just like layer upon layer upon layer upon layer of trauma life feels a little apocalyptic right now. So, you know after a really traumatic event like wildfire it's obviously really important to provide people Essentials. So things like food and water and shelter access to healthcare being able to connect with loved ones, but there's also mental health impacts of disasters. And you know, this is something we have a team of folks that are dedicated to building mobile apps for mental health support and people almost never turn their smart phones off.

1 (17m 8s):
So, When is the last time you actually turned it off completely turned it off. I like to let it die as awesome as possible. For example for covid-19. Our team has released an app that is designed to help people manage stress and to cope and to connect them with resources for things like meeting their basic needs but also for things like finding online therapists, you know, we're seeing increasing numbers in substance use Some people relapsing now so connecting people with online resources for for managing addictions. There's also you know, we're seeing increasing people reporting that they are having suicidal ideation for people going through these these moments of feeling like they're about to relapse with any sort of addiction or even contemplating suicide.

1 (18m 0s):
If you tell them to download an app, they might kind of feel like belittled or that you're not taking them. Seriously. Have you had to deal with that? At yeah, that's a great question and something I definitely want to make clear is that this app is intended as a perhaps a starting point as a way for people to connect with the kinds of resources, they might need but certainly not as a replacement for human connection and trained professionals. Tell me what your covid app looks like. I mean, first of all, what's it called? And and what happens when you download it walk me through the process sure. The app is called covid coach and Coach covid coach the sap came from a long tradition of apps being named something coach.

1 (18m 49s):
So there are four key sections in the app. There's the manage stress section. So these are the kinds of things like audio guided exercises to begin close your eyes and take a deep breath into your belly. There's also some tools where you can get suggestions. For activities that you can do from from indoors then exhale with a sigh so things like you can you know, watch the Otters of the Monterey Bay Aquarium, as you do this imagine that the tension throughout your body begins to melt away. I highly recommend it feel your muscles becoming softer more relaxed and feel the warmth and

2 (19m 32s):
lightness that replaces the tension that was there before

1 (19m 35s):
another section in the app is called finding resources. This is a list of a lot of different types of tools. The other two key sections of the app are the mood check section. So this is where people can track their symptoms of depression anxiety PTSD and well-being and they can track it over time. And then the other section is learn. So this is a lot of topics that help address some of the key emotional reactions and help normalize some of the Things people might be going through right now. So for example coping with grief and loss or you know, how do you find humor in in times like these because humor can be beneficial even if it's just for a few moments something that makes you smile and then exhale with a sigh the other thing I should mention about the app is that it allows you to set reminders and this is great for being able to make it a habit to prioritize yourself and In South care, even if it's just a few minutes a day so you can set reminders for tracking your mood.

1 (20m 44s):
You can set reminders for trying out tools. You can even set reminders for worry time, bori time weary time. It might seem counterintuitive that you would actually schedule time to focus on worries, but you know research suggests that scheduling a specific time to focus on worries can be helpful because instead of then worrying all the time. You've set aside deliberately a Specific time to focus on what is wearing you so this can help people control when psychologists would call rumination or continuously repetitively thinking about the same issue so we could all like go into our calendars and edit the entirety of 2020 which we blocked out Tory to just maybe an hour a day or 10 minutes a day.

1 (21m 29s):
Yes. Yes. It sounds like they'll this app is called covid coach. It really has sort of brought application. To everything people are going through this year. Yes. We actually we actually have heard that we found that people are really able to find something for whatever it is that they might be going through and one thing I should mention is that because this is made by the government. This app is completely free again. Take a deep breath. There's no content behind a pay wall what you see is what you get when you download it think the word relax. - silently to yourself and you also don't need to create an account to access the app.

1 (22m 15s):
So we have no identifying information collected you will be able to access it and recreate it later on your own. These resources are free to everyone we think of it as a public mental health strategy to all the people who might not have a smartphone or who have won and are listening to this but still just maybe won't go through that and download the app. What would you say is, you know most important for sustaining mental health while the country Burns goes through hurricane season goes up to an election. We will most certainly be gas-lit and continues to deal with this pandemic this economy and everything else.

1 (22m 59s):
Make sure that you give yourself time to adjust be gentle on yourself allow yourself to mourn the kind of losses that you might have experienced. And you know, actually I think that there is a quote that comes up when you open the app that I think really beautifully summarizes what I've been saying, it's the older I get the more I'm conscious of ways very small things can make a change in the world tiny little things but the world is made up of tiny matters. The net not a quote from Sandra Cisneros, and I

2 (23m 36s):
just think it's so important that we figure

1 (23m 39s):
out that small things that we can do each each day to make

2 (23m 44s):
the make the world a little better. Dr. Beth Jaworski is a real life covid coach, but also one of the people behind the covid coach app, which you can find and download wherever you find and download your apps. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today. Explain.

1 (24m 55s):
Now you are feeling refreshed and alert relaxed and ready for whatever is next.

2 (25m 11s):
If one of the hardest things to figure out these days is what to watch next. First of all congrats second of all, you should check out HBO Max discover something new to watch on HBO Max like Lovecraft country the new HBO series from Jordan Peele Micha green and JJ Abrams, that's got everyone buzzing plus HB o-- Max is the only place you'll find new binge worthy Max Originals like Selena, Gomez's new cooking show. You heard that right? Selena Gomez's learning to cook from some of World's best chefs. No less find your next favourite all in one place on HBO Max start streaming today download the app or visit HBO Max.com to start your free trial.

2 (25m 56s):
Google's free tools are designed to help support millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working with Google tools small businesses are staying connected to their customers by updating their business

1 (26m 7s):
hours switching to curbside pickup

2 (26m 10s):
activating online booking and more and if you want to support them, there are ways to help whether you're searching for restaurants salons bookstores Jim's boutiques or any other business near you show your support by ordering takeout, right? Review buying a gift card or making a donation all With a Little Help from Google.