2 (0s):
Sometimes the world's problems can seem overwhelming climate change sexism Wars turns out there are people all over the world who are working to solve these problems. All I want to do is to find the

1 (15s):
solution how we can bring clean drinking water to my

2 (18s):
country. We are going to focus on what we

1 (21s):
can do today to make the

2 (23s):
world just a little bit better subscribe to course correction from Doha debates wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (36s):
You might have noticed Chief Justice. John Roberts is working two jobs right now. He's refereeing the Senate trial of President Trump in addition to running the Supreme Court of the United States and back at the Supreme Court. A very famous case is being discussed and decided I used to work at WNYC New York public radio. And basically the entire time I worked there we had a reporter named Matt. Cats who basically covered just this one case he won a Peabody for it. He wrote a book about it. The case is called Bridgegate.

2 (1m 10s):
Yeah, and it was a perfect story for us because we Encompass the New York City and New Jersey region. And at any given time there's somebody listening to WNYC stuck in traffic on the George Washington Bridge and this started basically with a mysterious traffic. Jam. There was a multi-day traffic jam on the New Jersey side of the George Washington Bridge and we couldn't figure out why it happened and why there was so much Buzz about there being something Shady about it. And that is what became the Bridgegate scandal. It resulted in Federal Criminal convictions, and it was appealed all the way up to the Supreme Court those convictions.

2 (1m 55s):
The Bridgegate Scandal is headed to the Supreme Court the court agreed to hear an appeal involving two aides to former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. And the reason why it's so important is it could really change the way political corruption is prosecuted in this country from here on out depending on how the justices rule on this case

1 (2m 14s):
Okay, so that means the stakes they heard oral. Since last week, but before we get to all that take us back to when this whole thing started would you?

2 (2m 27s):
So September 9th 2013 was the first day of school in a little burrow called Fort Lee. It is adjacent to the George Washington Bridge. And on that day. There was a ton of traffic in town

1 (2m 42s):
quality. Traffic is a nightmare dgw Bridget.

2 (2m 46s):
There are three lanes that go to the George Washington Bridge from the town of Fort Lee the rest of the main lanes that go to the George Washington Bridge are coming off a highway. So a lot of people who live near Fort Lee and all over Bergen County. They go through Fort Lee to get to the bridge. It's the just the best way to do it. However, two of those three lanes were shut down without warning without explanation on September 9 2013 That meant that there was absolute gridlock in Fort Lee and the town surrounding it to the point that school buses with children going to school some kindergarteners on their first day of school were in their school buses for hours, and we know that people were late for dialysis appointments.

2 (3m 30s):
We know that people Miss job interviews. There were ambulance drivers who literally had to get out of their vehicles and run to the scene of incidents other emergencies the traffic ended around 10 a.m. And And again, it started the next morning and then it happened again, September 11th. And then again on September 12 and nobody could figure out what was happening

1 (3m 51s):
Fort Lee mayor Mark sokolich declined to comment on camera but during a phone interview. He told me he doesn't know the reasons behind the lane closures.

2 (3m 59s):
And the mayor of Fort Lee was freaking out calling everybody to figure out why there was so much traffic and then why these Lanes to the George Washington Bridge were closed. So the people he called were over at the Port Authority, which is this massive. Agency run by New York and New Jersey. It's run by appointees of the governor of New York and the governor of New Jersey they run and operate all the bridges and tunnels and they have complete control over the George Washington Bridge which which happens to be the busiest bridge in the world. So this mayor is called the Port Authority can't figure out what's going on. And finally finally traffic is alleviated on Friday morning after this went for a full week because the lanes are reopened and then the in is what the hell happened and why did this

1 (4m 45s):
happen? Wow, what a story. How does this go from a traffic jam to a political Scandal.

2 (4m 53s):
The reason why the lanes reopened on Fridays because the New York side of the Port Authority got wind of it. They order the lanes reopened and the New Yorkers think that the new jerseyans were up to something really shady by closing these lanes and that prompts the In the New Jersey legislature to hold the hearing. The governor is Chris Christie a Republican and his top appoint the at the Port Authority his main guy at the Port Authority is Bill Baroni a former Republican legislator in New Jersey. So the Democrats Hall Bill Baroni before a Committee hearing and the they say what was going on with this traffic jam and Phil Baroni said we were just conducting a traffic study

1 (5m 38s):
on the first day of school on the first day of

2 (5m 40s):
school the data shows that That clearly the main line traffic from everywhere else goes down wait time goes down traffic from from Fort Lee went up. Did you give anybody prior notice know that would skew the results of the traffic study. Do you have any results of this traffic study that you apparently conduct and no we weren't able to finish it because lanes were reopened by the New York side. A major Bridge has no paper trail that there is not a single email that explains how this was done sighs. Oh my God, and nobody in this room believes that I have set here assemblywoman and answered the questions.

2 (6m 26s):
I have told you what happened what you will not answer our to the 585 people in your District who sit in more traffic because of the special lines. What do you say to them? He gave a performance. I would call it that seemed implausible. So the Democrats keep going Ang and they subpoena a bunch of documents in the meantime Christy wins re-election in New Jersey by a massive margin a second term win that solidifies his place as one of the gop's Premier

1 (6m 54s):
politician Jersey we still fight we still yell, but when we fight we fight for those things that really matter in people's lives

2 (7m 10s):
who's now December this traffic jam started in Timber it was sort of one of these many controversies that hadn't even bubbled up to the point that anybody thought to ask him. So I asked him if he had anything to do with closing the lanes of the George Washington Bridge and he gave me a sarcastic answer the tape of which will be on my Tombstone because I feel like it was the most famous encounter I've ever had in my life. He said I work the cones actually, I'm

1 (7m 37s):
not unbeknownst everybody. I was actually the guy out there. I wasn't overalls and a

2 (7m 42s):
hat. So I he said I was out there moving the cones Matt. You cannot be serious with that question as if he was the guy who decided to close the lanes for some crazy reason. He said he knew nothing about it and the Democrats were on some sort of bizarre Witch Hunt sounds familiar. Yes, the Witch Hunt continues though and January 8th 2014. I remember I was at a cafe eating shakshouka and we got a copy of an email that the Democrats had obtained. And the email came from Christie's Deputy Chief of Staff and it was written to her contact at the Port Authority the New Jersey side of the port authority and the email said time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee It Was Written over the three weeks before the traffic jam.

2 (8m 32s):
And that was The Smoking Gun. Now we knew that there was a traffic intentionally set traffic jam and then everything began to unravel from there. Why was this dress? Jim created because the mayor of Fort Lee had not endorsed Christie for re-election for his 2013 gubernatorial re-election. It was maddening who would close down Lanes to the busiest bridge in the world to get to me. The mayor of Fort Lee was a Democrat but Christie was a republican but Christie at the time was trying to prepare for a campaign for president and his whole shtick what he was going to be running on was as a bipartisan leader somebody who could get Democrats to support him which he had done his re-election who could get African-American voters and Hispanic voters which he had done in his re-election to an unusually high degree for a republican.

2 (9m 22s):
So the mayor did not endorse him for re-election and the mayor was then punished with this traffic jam under the cover of a traffic study and we soon learned as charges that were then filed like who did this and whether Christie had anything to do with it or whether it was his people And that's what consumed Us in the press and end-to-end process Federal prosecutors for the next couple of years trying to unravel why Bridget Kelly Deputy Chief of Staff to the governor wrote this email time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee Governor. Christie has repeatedly denied any

1 (9m 60s):
involvement or knowledge. And what would soon be called Bridgegate? I had no role in authorizing it I had no knowledge of it and there has been no evidence ever put forward. Yeah, I did. As this continues and it becomes pretty clear that this was a concerted effort to cause problems in Fort Lee as retaliation. Did anyone have any genuine question as to whether Governor Christie was

2 (10m 31s):
involved? Yeah, because the players involved were so tightly aligned with him. We would eventually learn that a man named David wildstein was the one who came up with this idea. He had actually been the In on Christie's High School baseball team and was a political blogger in New Jersey. He was also something of like a dark arts political operative. He was the guy who for example before a senatorial debate with Frank Lautenberg sometime in the 1980s Frank Lautenberg was the Democrat. He stole Lautenberg suit jacket. So Lautenberg would look ridiculous during the televised debate.

2 (11m 13s):
It was that kind of stuff and when Christie became Governor he created A position for wildstein at the Port Authority to support Christie's political causes and that's why he concocted this scheme and to help him carry it out. He enlisted Bridget Kelly Christie's Deputy Chief of Staff Bill Baroni who was actually wild steans boss. The guy who had gone to the state legislature and concocted this bogus story about there being a traffic study wildstein would end up charged an indicted by the feds. And he pleaded guilty and decided to cooperate with the feds. And then they then indicted Bridget Kelly and build Maroni and David wildstein testified against them

1 (11m 59s):
and what happens are they convicted

2 (12m 1s):
they get charged with convicted on two counts of conspiracy and fraud. They were charged with civil rights violations for interfering with people's right to intrastate travel their right to like drive around New Jersey and they were due to go to prison the appealed build Maroni. It says, you know what I'm going to get this over with so last April he reports to a federal prison in Pennsylvania. Bridget. Kelly has four kids. She wants to delay when she's going to go to prison for as long as possible. So she's going to now appeal to the Supreme Court, but nobody thinks the Supreme Court's going to take this case. It's about traffic in New Jersey and it doesn't seem to be any like major issues that the Supreme Court would want to delve into so Bridget's at home.

2 (12m 48s):
Getting ready for her ex-husband to move into her house so she can go to prison in July bills in the gym at the prison in Pennsylvania working out and they get a call at the Supreme Court last June decides to actually take this case

1 (13m 4s):
a year ago. I walked into federal prison and I never dreamed that the Supreme Court of the United States would agree to hear our case and here we

2 (13m 14s):
are and that's where we are today because oral arguments. Were finally heard on this case and Bridget Kelly and Bill Baroni showed up a bill Baroni gets out of prison. He got out of prison the day after they decided to take the case out on bail pending the Supreme Court's decision and Bridget Kelly doesn't have to go to prison because she's waiting on the Supreme Court. It was a miracle as far as they were concerned that the Supreme Court decided to

1 (13m 39s):
intervene Matt's back after the break. Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus only in America Dia odd tax after you see the ticket Place only in America can such a part like the game exist Face Forward hamburgers.

1 (14m 24s):
These Burgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America. Little America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria. These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to T V Dot a Dot-com the show is called Little America 8 episodes check them out now.

1 (15m 14s):
Hey, it is Ezra Klein and I want to tell you about an exciting episode because our client show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics has changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us. So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free and your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from the book.

1 (15m 55s):
Why did the Supreme Court decide to take this case Matt,

2 (15m 58s):
you know smarter legal Minds than I say that it's because they want to drop these convictions to keep Kelly and Baroni out of prison

1 (16m 7s):
as we argued today to the Supreme Court. There is a clear difference between politics and

2 (16m 12s):
crime and the way the justices were peppering the attorney for the government. At the Supreme Court indicated that they just might do that later this year when they make a ruling some of the justices were skeptical Justin Stephen Breyer said quote. I don't know how this case works. When the Supreme Court heard the case on January 14th. They seem to really be focusing on two questions and one was the question of these fraud charges and whether the defendants had really obtained property through fraud, which is what the statute says because They didn't get anything out of it. There was no bribe. They didn't get any cash.

2 (16m 53s):
They just got potentially a political Victory by punishing the mayor and Justice Breyer said now that is not a good thing to do. It is really undesirable and maybe it should be a crime but 30 years in prison. That Mom. I'm not sure these guys by the way are only getting 13 months for Kelly 18 months for Baroni. So I don't know where Breyer got 30 years in prison, but he's saying it's not really a crime. You're just kind of reallocating public property. So they had some real concerns about that. And then the other piece of it was the government was trying to establish that the LIE the cover up the fact that they said this is because of a traffic study that that indicated fraud but in order To do that they've really kind of Twisted themselves in a pretzel because they have to say that bill Baroni didn't have the authority to close the lanes because somebody with the authority according to the law can do whatever they want.

2 (17m 53s):
They can close lanes for whatever reason they want to even if they lie about the real reason it's not illegal. So the justices seemed wholly unconvinced that this constituted a federal crime often the case that somebody who has the authority to do something may lie about why the person is doing the thing because if the real reason was exposed there would be a lot we caused a furor people would be angry but that doesn't show the person doesn't have the

1 (18m 25s):
authority. It sounds like there's some serious checks on power hanging in the balance here though like is the assumption that if you're if you're elected into executive office be it a mayoralty or The governorship or even the presidency that you can pretty much do whatever you want so long as you're not directly breaking the law

2 (18m 47s):
that's what the justices seemed to be saying that there are other remedies as they call it in legal parlance for this. So the remedies for a boneheaded traffic study would be to vote out the people who conducted it the Supreme Court in recent years has been reluctant to give Federal prosecutors tools to fight political corruption as if that's not their job because what it comes down to is if the Bridgegate convictions stand then more political corruption will be illegal essentially and if it doesn't stand then more political corruption will be allowed.

1 (19m 30s):
It feels like this whole case is just about lying Mmm Yeah, and whether or not politicians should be able to lie. Do you feel like as someone who's covered this story for years now who wrote a book about it do people care about that? Is there an appetite for that?

2 (19m 47s):
I think they do Chris Christie was never charged with a crime here, but he went from being one of the most popular governors in the country to the least popular governor in the country because New Jersey turned on him because they decided that either he or his people had lied and that really permeated over it. The presidential campaign when Christie then announced the run for President. We need to have strength and decision-making and Authority back in the Oval Office. And that is why today I am

1 (20m 20s):
proud to announce my candidacy for the Republican nomination for president of the United States of America.

2 (20m 28s):
He never was able to recapture the magic and the popularity that he once had because if you remember the original Chris Christie during the Obama years, he was a guy who's gonna tell everybody the straight truth. Are you stupid on topic next question if he needed to hug Obama after Hurricane Sandy, he would do that. If you needed to stick it to Republicans, he would do that. If you needed to talk smack to a reporter, he would do that and he had this there was authentically about him. Thank you all very much and I'm sorry for the

1 (20m 57s):
He had over

2 (20m 58s):
there and Bridgegate because of the LIE inherent in it really made people doubt whether that authenticity was a bunch of BS. I am not a bully he went from leading the field for 2016 Republican presidential candidates to finishing like sixth in the New Hampshire primary and dropping out right after that and none other than President Trump himself reportedly said that if it wasn't for Bridgegate, he would have never even run it created such an opening for somebody else that down. All Trump was able to fill the

1 (21m 29s):
void there George Washington Bridge he knew about it. How do you have breakfast with people every day of your lives? They're closing up the largest bridge in the world during rush hour there with them all the time. The people that did it they never said Chris tonight. We're closing up the George Washington Bridge because the mayor of a certain area is against you. Oh, okay. They didn't mention nobody

2 (21m 54s):
believes that and you know now there's no more lying and politics. So everything is good now

1 (22m 1s):
and maybe we're still Then losing his shot at the presidency and having his pal Donald take it instead his one true hero Bruce Springsteen crossed the bridge to New York to make fun of him on The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon.

2 (22m 15s):
He told me that he could never even watch that clip, but it was amazing and I hope you play in the day. We sweat it out

1 (22m 25s):
on the street stuck in traffic on the gwb. They shut down the Toll booths of Glory because we didn't endorse Christie. Hey Mad Catz, this was a real pleasure. Thank you so much. Thank you. Sean pleasure is mine that's cats and his colleagues over WNYC won a Peabody for their coverage of Bridgegate. He is the author of American Governor Chris Christie's bridge to Redemption. I'm Sean Rama's for him. This is today explained the show's made by Bridget McCarthy Halima Shah. I'm Anna. Saudi Jillian Weinberger a few Shapiro and no ABS hassenfeld who also does some of our music the rest of the music's done by the mysterious brake master cylinder.

1 (23m 13s):
Olivia Eckstrom is our fact Checker and the show was engineered today, and yesterday by Paul Mounds today explained is part of the VOX media podcast Network, and we are growing if you or someone, you know might be interested in making podcast with us check out the VOX media careers page. Thanks. I'm gonna let me know partisan divisions. Let me wrap my legs around your Mighty rooms relieve your stressful conditions Street Master studies cheek-to-cheek with blue Colour truckers and man.

1 (23m 56s):
I really gotta take a leak. Leaving Jersey traffic jam. I really gotta take a leak. Leaving Jersey traffic jam. I really gotta take a leak.