3 (0s):
Before we start the show a note about another one. This one's called pin drop your host Salim Russia mola Journeys across the globe to find surprising stories and ideas that you probably won't hear a lot of on this shows. He might want to check it out. For example with local journalists and creators as your guides. You'll learn about afro bubble gum, which is a fun and fierce art movement in Nairobi Kenya the challenges the narratives often prescribed to the region. You also weave through the streets of Bangkok with a motorcycle Midwife and chime travel with Sores behind a hardware store in New Jersey sounds pretty cool. Listen to pin drop wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (38s):
First it feels good. Like when your first year the latest summer

3 (42s):
Anthem and first to share it with your

1 (46s):
friends who know, you're always first to everything. Well, here's a new first for you Samsung Galaxy 5G. Yes. 5G Now on Galaxy helping you be one of the first on five G's so you can be first to even more like streaming with virtually no lag so you can be first to tell your friends what show to watch. Yes another first. They'll think Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy S 25 G and a 71 5G feels good to be first with Samsung 5G seeds very and require Optical networking connections factors include frequency bandwidth congestion be carrier for availability.

3 (1m 26s):
EML eyes. Are you cover the Supreme Court for Vox? We spoke on Monday about historic lgbtq decision and I ended the interview by saying Ian. I hope the next time there's a major decision from scotus. The construction will be done is the construction done outside your apartment. Yeah. The good news. Is that whatever my neighbors are doing they seem to have finished. God bless. Okay. So let's talk about yet another historic decision from the Supreme Court. Is it historic? I don't know. It seems like a big

1 (1m 53s):
deal. It is a very big

3 (1m 55s):
deal in terms. The human impact but I mean frankly, I think the Supreme Court had no business hearing the case. The the holding of today's decision is that the Trump administration's decision to end the DACA program a program that protects several hundred thousand undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children that that rescission of that program is invalid because of a paperwork error. No because the Trump Administration did not file the right kind of memo when They decided to end the program. So the Supreme Court just said hey, you guys didn't dot your I's and cross your t's pretty much. I mean what what they said is that whenever and executive branch agency wants to implement a new policy, even if the policy that they're allowed to do.

3 (2m 45s):
They have to explain their decision why and they have to you know, provide a pretty full explanation of why they did what they did and the Supreme Court just looked at the memo that the The administration wrote explaining why I wanted to get rid of DACA and said this isn't good enough you you didn't explain why you're going to take nearly 700,000 people and you're going to suddenly make them subject to deportation. You didn't explain why all these people who have relied on the fact that they have DACA status who have gotten married who have gotten jobs who have gotten degrees all these people who are paying, you know, potentially billions of dollars in taxes you did not Not adequately explain why you're going to take this away and I will note because this is very important.

3 (3m 32s):
This doesn't mean that DACA is safe. If the Trump Administration does its homework properly the next time they can still get rid of Dhaka, but for the meantime Dhaka stands basically because of incompetence because the Trump Administration didn't do what it needed to do to explain its decision and beyond that. This still wasn't a unanimous decision. This wasn't 9 zip. This was 5'4 so clearly There's more here to unpack. So let's unpack starting with just winding back a little bit. So DACA is the deferred action for childhood arrivals program that started under the Obama Administration what happens when Trump comes to office?

3 (4m 13s):
So a lot of this goes back to 2016 in 2016 the Supreme Court heard a case involving a program called da paw and then an expansion of the DACA program. And which were efforts by President Obama to allow a larger group of undocumented immigrants to live in the country and to continue to work here. This was after scalia's death. So the Supreme Court had only eight members and the court split evenly and we're pretty sure it was along party lines with all of the Republicans on saying that it had to fall and all the Democrats saying that da paw could stay and so a lot of people feared that now that there's a Welcome majority on the Supreme Court.

3 (4m 58s):
There will be five votes to say that DACA which is very similar to dot Papa also had to fall what wound up happening instead is at least the majority just didn't go there the majority relied entirely on this extraordinarily narrow ground that well. The Trump Administration didn't file the right paperwork. So if they want to get rid of DACA, they have to go back and file the correct paperwork the thing that stood out at oral argument. Is that Roberts who is the George W bush appointee who crossed over to vote with his liberal colleagues in this case at Oral arguments. He seemed really concerned that DACA might be illegal.

3 (5m 41s):
He seemed to think that the poor it would give the president too much power. If the president had the power to create the DACA program in the first place. And so I think there was legitimate fears that Roberts was going to go the other way. A and potentially that he might strike down darker all together forever. Joe Biden can't bring it back forever. And what happened instead, of course is that Roberts didn't do it. He'd he decided to see the case narrowly. And so this question of whether DACA is legal in the first place Still Remains an open question that has not been resolved by the Supreme Court.

3 (6m 23s):
What about the dissenters here? I'm guessing what Cavanaugh Gorsuch Alito and Thomas. Why were they not concerned that this wasn't the right paperwork that the eyes weren't dotted and the t's weren't Christ. So there were several different distance on the primary descent was written by Justice Thomas and Thomas basically said this is always been a legal DACA couldn't exist in the first place. So it's an absurdity to say that Trump couldn't get rid of a program. That is always Illegal caravana wrote a separate dissent where he took I guess some more moderate view what Cavanaugh said is look the fact that basically said the fact that we would strike this down over paperwork error is silly.

3 (7m 7s):
So, you know, he seemed to think that there weren't strong reasons why the administration should have to provide the full explanation that the majority demanded Alito had like a one-page descent where he said it's bad. Bad that this case has been pending for a long time and it started with a single District Court handed down a decision and that you know, basically, it's bad that while this case was in limbo. The Trump Administration wasn't able to do anything. Where does this leave dreamers for the time being the people who this program was created for the answer is it leads them in a pretty precarious place?

3 (7m 48s):
So again the holding of the Supreme Court today. Was that the Trump Administration? Then file the right paperwork and they could potentially file the right paperwork tomorrow. And if they do file the right paperwork tomorrow, it's likely that the courts going to say. Yeah, that's fine. I mean the court said explicitly that Trump does have the power to get rid of Dhaka if he wants to he just has to do it the right way. Now if the Trump Administration decides that it wants to take a second crack at getting rid of Dhaka, it's likely It's going to be another round of litigation. There could be new injunctions from lower courts, and those injunctions could potentially push this until past the election.

3 (8m 33s):
And so maybe it becomes moot if Donald Trump is no longer president in a year, but for as long as Donald Trump is president of the United States, he can try to get rid of DACA and there's a good chance he'll succeed and even if he doesn't try to get rid of Dhaka again the question of whether DACA was legal in the first place the Of whether President Obama had the power to create DACA has not been resolved by the Supreme Court. So there was still a danger that the Supreme Court will turn around and strike down DACA because they say the DACA itself is illegal. So what's the president said about this if this all comes down to Donald Trump right now has he weighed in on the decision from the Supreme Court he sent out a tweet where he said that he doesn't think that the Supreme Court likes him very much and my I actually think he's onto something.

3 (9m 20s):
I don't think it's that the justices personally. Like Donald Trump is the explanation for this but I think that chief justice Roberts. I think what sets them aside from the other four Republican appointees on the court is that Roberts cares about procedural regularity. He believes that things need to be done in a certain way and we saw this last term in the census case and we saw it again this term in the docket case that when the administration is incompetent, and it doesn't follow the proper. For work requirements. It doesn't provide a proper explanation for what it's doing Roberts is willing to say because you didn't follow the procedural rules correctly.

3 (10m 2s):
We're not going to let you do what you tried to do. What comes next for the dreamers after quick break I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today explained. Are you still eating food? If so, you might want to try the caviar app unlike? All those other apps caviar is the best place to find smaller local restaurants that need your support right now more than ever and you can find all sorts of food on caviar.

3 (10m 52s):
For example food you want to eat for breakfast food you want to eat for lunch food you want to eat for dinner? Food you want to eat after dinner food that you maybe want to eat between all of those moments. I just mentioned and right now just for our listeners caviar is offering $10 off an order of $20 or more. All you have to do is put in the offer code explained when you checkout remember that is $10 off the purchase of $20 or more with the offer code explained. So go ahead and download the caviar app on the app store or in Google Play and use the offer code

1 (11m 32s):
explained. First it feels good. Like when you first get your hands on the latest sneaker

3 (11m 42s):
drop. Yes. Well, here's a new first for you

1 (11m 46s):
Samsung Galaxy 5G. Yes 5G now and Galaxy helping you be one of the first on 5G so you can be first to even more like being the first of your friends to post an 8K with the first 8K unboxing video of your new kicks. Thinking man. First really looks good, like really good Galaxy 5G Now available on Galaxy S 25g feels good to be first with Samsung 5G speeds very and require Optical networking connection factors include frequency bandwidth congestion see carrier for availability

3 (12m 24s):
Nicole. Marea you cover immigration for Vox when President Obama created the DACA program in 2012. He said that it wasn't a permanent fix. What is the permanent fix here?

1 (12m 38s):
So for the better part of almost two decades now lawmakers have been trying to get the DREAM Act passed and that would offer permanent protections to dreamers offering them a path to citizenship for the most part and it's been sort of a subject of contentious legislative debate for years, but never really mustered enough support to pass. It was part of a big legislative package in 2013. It was supposed to be a massive Immigration Reform Bill, but that failed in Congress and It even though public support remains really strong for the DACA program and for dreamers. It just hasn't been able to get passed in Congress.

3 (13m 17s):
How strong is public support for for DACA for

1 (13m 20s):
dreamers. It's pretty overwhelming among all different sections of Voters even almost 70% of trump voters support dreamers and don't want them to be deported. But unfortunately Republicans often want to use dreamers as a bargaining chip to kind of beef up worse. Security and enact some restriction ystem aggression agendas. So whenever the DREAM Act is sort of come up in Congress. They've always attempted to sort of tack on funding for President Trump's border wall. For example, leaving the negotiations kind of

3 (13m 53s):
stalled. I mean the president is currently beefing up border security and reducing drastically immigration into the United States has that neutralized the issue of dreamers at

1 (14m 6s):
all. It doesn't seem to I guess Republicans know that Democrats really want these protections for for DACA recipients and it is one of the few issues on which there is some sort of bipartisan consensus. So they know that now controlling the Senate they can sort of use these dreamers as a bargaining chip to enact broader restrictions on immigration just because this proposal is so widely popular. As Ian sort of explained in the

3 (14m 36s):
first half of the show President Trump now has a very clear idea of how exactly he can get the Supreme Court to rule in his favor on Dhaka. Do we have any idea if he'll pursue that do we know what exactly he's been up to on immigration lately and what that might suggest for what he might do now that we have this decision from the Supreme

1 (14m 58s):
Court. So Trump just tweeted this morning actually that he is. For a legal Solution on Dhaka not a political one. And because the Supreme Court is quote unquote not willing to give him one. He now wants to start the process all over again. It's very unclear what that means whether he might be considering issuing an executive order or having the Department of Homeland Security put out a memo or even going through the rulemaking process to terminate DACA. But the thing is that process could take a long time and possibly extend far. Beyond the presidential election or the inauguration and January 2020,

3 (15m 38s):
but the president hasn't concluded that maybe it's time to actually pass legislation to get the DREAM Act codified into the

1 (15m 46s):
law. I mean, I think he sort of left that up to Senate Republicans and Mitch McConnell has said that he doesn't want to bring any legislation to the floor.

3 (15m 56s):
There are circumstances under which I and others would be happy to support the but we need to do more than that. You know, there's Genuine fixes on the legal immigration side and on the illegal immigration side that need to be

1 (16m 10s):
addressed. He's sitting on right now What's called the dream and promise act and that was house democrat-led proposal, but they pass that bill now almost a year ago, and he has said he doesn't want to bring it to a vote. So at this point it stalled in the Senate and the ball is kind of a Mitch McConnell's court

3 (16m 30s):
and just more concretely if you're a dreamer in the United States right now. Now and you run into ice somewhere are you protected or are you in some place of legal limbo where you could get

1 (16m 44s):
deported know it? I can't Deport DACA recipients now because they do have legal status. If Trump is eventually able to go forward with ending the program. That means that their legal status would expire or terminate and then only then would they be potentially eligible? Deportation and the trouble ministration has made clear that if that's the case. They do intend to deport DACA recipients. It's not even clear though how the trauma nurse Administration could carry out that agenda just because immigration enforcement resources are already overstrained Trump is already an acting restrictions on the border and beefing up border security in a way that's really monopolizing the resources.

1 (17m 28s):
So this is a threat that the Trump Administration has made but even if it comes to pass that Dhaka is eliminated it's not clear how just at least in practice. They would be able to carry out deportations on a mass scale.

3 (17m 40s):
What about all the people who are applying for DACA people who are trying to become

1 (17m 46s):
dreamers. So it's still an open question what happens to all these people who would qualify for the DACA program? There's almost sixty six thousand of them who were been waiting to apply since 2017 when new applications to the program was shut down amid. And so it's likely at least some legal experts are saying that they should be able to apply for those protections now and the Attorney General of California Xavier. Becerra has said that he intends to fight for that. So hopefully those the program will become open to new applications and those people who were previously shutout will be able to get protection.

3 (18m 32s):
It feels like at this point. Like limbo might be the only setting that the dreamers know where does this decision today? Leave them exactly. Is it is it exactly where they were yesterday?

1 (18m 45s):
It definitely is cost to celebrate and I know a lot of rumors are floored and surprised by this decision. It definitely gives them some Assurance at least for the immediate moment that they will maintain their legal status that they won't lose their jobs because their work, It's tied to slowly their legal status and that they will be able to remain in this country that is for many of them. The only country they've ever known for the immediate future, but they know that this isn't a permanent fix and that Trump can still move forward with ending the program, especially if he gets re-elected. So that's why they're really pushing for permanent Protections enshrined in law through the dream and promise act or some other DREAM Act adjacent legislation.

1 (19m 31s):
That would give the them a path to citizenship.

3 (19m 39s):
Nicole thanks so much for your time. I appreciate it.

1 (19m 43s):
Thanks.