3 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from NerdWallet smart money podcast and you trying to keep up with everything that's going on in the economy right? Now. You probably feel like your heads about to explode says NerdWallet smart money podcast, but you can stay on top of financial news and learn how to manage your own money better with NerdWallet smart money podcast experts Liz Weston and Shawn piles will walk you through the IRS and aprs and all the other three letter acronyms. You need to know to get your money right to start listening head to Apple or Spotify or wherever you listen and search for NerdWallet smart money

1 (32s):
show

3 (47s):
the United States of America is going through a rough patch. Right 3 million coronavirus cases were adding something like 60,000 a day. There's the police brutality the white supremacy the economy the guy in charge fueling The fires and yet this is still the place to come get your education. If you can study abroad anywhere in the world. You probably want to do it in the United States this week President Trump made that a lot tougher to his administration announced that foreign students would have to leave the United States if they were doing online only course work which would make sense at any other time but in a global pandemic, that's an upheaval any foreign student who isn't Showing up in person to take a class even if it's because their school has gone totally online needs to leave.

3 (1m 37s):
Even if you're at an elite institution like MIT or Harvard. My name is Valeria Mendiola. I am an international student at Harvard University. I am doing a master's in public administration and International Development at Harvard Kennedy School and I am from Mexico City. And where are you right now? Valeriya I am in Cambridge, Massachusetts. So how did you decide to go to Harvard? Oh my God this The best question has you could ever ask me. So however has been a dream for me since I was 12 years old. I remember telling my dad like Hobbies Harvard real like I saw it in a movie or something and he was like, yes, it is real. I told him.

3 (2m 17s):
Okay one day I will go to Harvard and he just loves that he was like, you'll have to work very hard for that. And so that's what I do every single step that I gave you life afterwards was with my mind told custom at some point in my life coming to Harvard which is what happened about a year ago when I got my acceptance letter and I just did everything in my power to get the phones and you know everything just to be able to be here in order to get your visa. You need to prove to Harvard that you have almost 90,000 dollars for the year. It's is very hard to get scholarships for that sort of for that amount of money. So I got a couple of scholarships.

3 (2m 58s):
I got one from the Mexican Government. They got one from the Harvard foundation in Mexico, but also it was not enough for sure. So I had to get a lot of student loans. I had to borrow a lot of money from family and friends and to be honest. It was a very stressful situation because there was like a deadline in order to get the money so that I could apply for the Visa. I was not hearing back from my scholarships yet. So I had to beg to people and sell a lot of my things. I sold my car. I sold everything that I had to be. Here basically, oh my gosh. Was it worth it? Yeah, I can totally tell you that he was worth it. It has been amazing.

3 (3m 39s):
It has been over my expectations not only because of the academics but the people are spectacular the professor's my friends the experiences the you know, the the talks that we have with these experts in every single topic that you can ever think of it like

1 (3m 55s):
tacular.

3 (4m 3s):
So what was it? Like when you found out this week that after all the work you've put in in your academics to get to the school not to mention begging and borrowing and applying for the money to get here that because of the Trump administration's immigration policies. You might have to leave Cambridge has to leave Harvard and do this online from Mexico. So first, I was in a State of Shock I admit I was actually in another cold when I got I was stopped text from a friend who's doing her PhD at Princeton and she was like, hey, have you seen this? I was so shocked.

3 (4m 44s):
I had to honk to hang up my other call. I was with my roommate at the sit at that same time and my phone just blew up with texts from all my friends Molly all of my WhatsApp groups. We were like no this can't be true. Like he's has to be a joke every bad joke, of course. resumes interpretation of the law or of the policy and then we started getting emails from Harvard University as well and they were equally shocked as we were so I think what I can tell you that I liked my first reaction was of a lot of frustration, of course being from Mexico why I mean, I know how the politics of immigration work in the u.s. especially with this Administration since 2016 when they're not from was running for president, but I never imagined that I would actually be one of the people one of the people facing facing these immigration laws a few days later MIT and your school Harvard announced they were suing the Trump Administration over this decision.

3 (5m 44s):
Was that reassuring so I have made that I felt sort of be reassured because the I know that Harvard just doesn't Sue anyone right? It's harder chose to sue the US government choose their lawsuits carefully. Yeah, exactly. So I Okay. So this is a good sign. However, I admit that I'm very concerned and students in general are very concerns. There are putting older vets in these on these decision to sue the US government where I mean in the meantime, there are many many other universities which have decided to sort of either join the lawsuit or tools so, you know transitioning to a hybrid model because they are doing everything in their power to protect your International students in the case of Harvard.

3 (6m 29s):
There's still a lot of concern. Can see there's no Clarity in with respect to whether they're going to decide to go Highway, they're not and that's still very frustrating and that still that still gives us all the different certainty and what are you doing in the meantime, but idea, how how are you making plans for the next weeks and months and even you know year of your life? Okay. So in my specific case my God, it has been such a roller coaster because Since a few weeks ago when we knew that Harvard was going to go online. We have to face a decision of whether we chose a leave of absence for a year or whether we chose to stay even though it was going to be online.

3 (7m 13s):
Right? So in that scenario, I got a job in Mexico. I was trying to evaluate my outside options and I had to reject that job because I was trying to push my student loans and I was going to lose some of my scholarships then I rejected that job and now I'm faced with the with these others decision. I mean about whether I'm going to have to either leave if I get kicked out of the country and then if I leave, you know, I already signed my lease. I many people have already signed student loans including myself for next year. So what's going to happen to those loans what's going to happen to my furniture? I was doing some research on like the storage costs of living my furniture somewhere and it's going to cost me like around fifteen hundred dollars for the year, which of course I don't have we have that that's money to there and then let you know like I'm trying to think okay, if I go back to Mexico, my parents are high risk population.

3 (8m 7s):
My mom had cancer some years ago when my dad is also higher risk because of health issues. So like I'm not true that I can just go back to leave at their place. Would I have to get another apartment in Mexico like in the middle of a pandemic or how is that going to work? You know also internet connectivity is not the best in Mexico and I cannot even imagine how it is in other places in the world. So, you know like there's So many there's so many decisions there right now that I feel like I have to make very fast and I think that's also very very stressful because like the amount of time that we have to decide or to plan is is very very little yeah.

3 (8m 51s):
I just imagined in your case. Especially this wasn't like, oh, I want to go to a good school. Mom. Dad buy me into an American University so I can you know have that American college experience this like your whole life was designed to get into what very well may be the greatest University in the world. You just feel like collateral right now in this other mess that were in has has this experience changed how you feel about the United States. So I am a true believer that the United States is not determined by its politicians, but by its people in general, I have been very lucky in the sense that I have met amazing Americans Hearing in Cambridge.

3 (9m 41s):
But also, you know, like out of all the times that I have visited the US before as its wrist. I know that the u.s. Is way better than what the Trump Administration is trying to implement and we can see it like everywhere even you know in my program even though 85% of the students are international students the other 15% who are Americans are being very supportive. They are telling us like guys. I'm so sorry. Let me I can help and I think that's what America is all about, you know helping others and helping each other actually and trying to learn from each other and I think the reason why I came here is because they want to learn the best practices. I want to learn from the best professors and from the best university in the world so that at some point I can just go back to my country and then Implement everything that I had been learning here to make the world a better place and I think that's what most of us are trying to do.

3 (10m 34s):
Oh, yeah. Polly I really hope it works out for you and you get to stay yeah, me too. Thanks so much for your time. We appreciate it. No, thank you so much for inviting me. Support for the show today comes from here.

3 (11m 14s):
Oh, no, not me. There's an app and a pill dispenser. It's this way to reinvent your medicine cabinet. They make it simple and easy to make sure you or a loved one are getting all the right meds at the right time. Every time the hero pill dispenser even sorts all your daily medications for you and delivers them all with the push of a button with the Hero app. You can set medication schedules get notifications if you miss a dose If you're running low on pills, you can even share important medical information with your doctor's your hero membership includes the Hero app to Hero pill dispenser and 24/7 support for just a dollar a day and an extra service that can get medication delivered directly to your door.

3 (11m 56s):
And right now Heroes offering today explained listeners a deal head over to Hero health.com and make sure to use the offer code explained to get 50% off their Initiation fee plus a 30-day risk-free trial get your Mornings and afternoons and evenings back stop counting pills and let the machine do the work with hero. That's $50 off plus a 30 day free trial at hero health.com using the offer code explained at checkout. This is Advertiser content. Hey, this is Bo's. I'm a podcaster streamer gamer and I'm basically all over the Internet.

3 (12m 39s):
So one of the things that I'm super interested in is how new technology affects our lives today with the help of Samsung Galaxy 5G. I'm looking at how technology connects us. Let's get into it with dr. Jennifer gold back. She's a professor at the University of Maryland studying how our online interactions affect their daily lives doctor. What do you see as the biggest promise of 5G the I think it's going to really open a new way of thinking about how do we share these real-world offline experiences that we're having now is 5G. We're going to take this next Leap Forward. We're going to be able to do stuff that we couldn't think of with slower connections psychologically. How do you think that this affects us?

3 (13m 19s):
Yeah. It's such a good question if things kind of get in the way of us doing what we're trying to do, it can be so frustrating because it builds up over the course of the day. Day, and so if we have seamless video If we don't have those little delays it's going to make us feel better. It's going to reduce that frustration that's going to make us nicer to everybody else. It's going to make us happier. Wow, it's seriously been so interesting talking to you today, and I have a million questions, but that's all the time that we have for Samsung and my guest. Dr. Jennifer gold back. Thank you so much for joining us be one of the first to start enhancing Your World online and off with Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy S.

3 (13m 59s):
25g and a 71 5G feels good to be first with Samsung. Nicole marea you cover immigration for Vox how important are international students like valeriya to American universities. So International students, bring not only their intellect but also their dollars to US universities, they generate an estimated 45 billion for the US economy. Annually, 45 billion. Yeah. Yeah, 45 billion. It's a huge amount and they tend to pay tuition.

3 (14m 40s):
And at a higher rate than the domestic students as well and they also support more than 450,000 jobs. So they really are a big Financial force in the u.s. University system. And without them some academic programs would definitely suffer and this isn't just schools like Harvard or MIT, right? This is State schools public schools where International students pay for intuition, which is oftentimes way way higher than what local state students are expected to pay. Yeah, absolutely. There are certain schools where there's a higher percentage of foreign students. But across the board, they they really are providing some Financial stability to these institutions and in a way subsidizing the education of Americans buleria, obviously for Mexico, but there's like a million of these International students in the United States.

3 (15m 30s):
Where are most of them from most of them are coming from China and India in particular, but some other big sending countries are South Korea Saudi, Canada Brazil, Taiwan, Japan Vietnam. Hmm. So how did the Trump Administration decides to kick all these people out. So when the pandemic hit back in March a lot of colleges opted to go online and hold classes only online and while some International students decided to stay in the states to do that. A lot of them went home to finish their course of study, but the administration said that This case students on temporary F1 + F1 visas could stay in the US or near campus to do that and many of them live in off-campus apartment.

3 (16m 21s):
So that was that was feasible for them. But I guess the question the big question is Ben what's going to happen in the fall for the curriculum of many universities? Will they all be online this week Harvard announced that they would put the full 2022 2021 school year online and Right after that the Trump Administration said that students need to be taking now at least one class in person in order to stay in the country. That's still more lenient than the policy that existed before the pandemic but it really does hamper school's efforts to keep students staff and other members of the community safe and prevent these institutions from becoming super spreaders because many of them were going to opt to be fully online.

3 (17m 6s):
What's the Trump administration's defense for this plan to send all these Students home how they explaining it. So the trauma ministration did have a policy before the pandemic of prohibiting foreign students from taking online only course loads. Obviously, they suspended that for the duration of the pandemic, but Trump is also trying to get colleges to reopen for in the fall and and public schools in general and the acting Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security. Ken cuccinelli has actually said this Now setting the rules for one semester which will finalize later this month that will again encourage schools to reopen it pretty directly tied this new policy change to a political goal here and you know while there may be good Arguments for reopening say elementary schools the risks of doing that or totally different from those associated with the risks of reopening universities and it seems like he is in some ways trying to equate the two Hmm.

3 (18m 11s):
So you're saying that this isn't so much about President Trump wanting to get rid of international students and send them home though one could easily mistake this for that. This is more about forcing universities hands to reopen schools. Yeah, absolutely and he realizes the political Stakes about it. Certainly. I know Harvard and MIT are suing the Trump Administration to block this decision, but how are Other schools across the country responding so a bunch of schools have joined Harvard and MIT is lawsuit Princeton and Stanford included but there have also been other lawsuits filed in other federal courts across the country.

3 (18m 56s):
The University of California has also said it's going to file its own suit. The state of California is suing but you know, there does seem to be a different response to this depending on the school certain States. Rules for instance might be more keen to reopen for in-person classes because the risks associated with doing that is just inherently lower because for example many students may live at home. Somebody have jobs and the campus isn't just as much of a center of social interaction that could lead these institutions to become super spreaders. So we've already seen about 65% of Most universities reporting that they plan to reopen in person.

3 (19m 39s):
So this is really just affecting those 45% that haven't said so yet what are the universities that you know will be hit hard by this doing other than suing the administration some schools that were planning to go online or mostly online have said that they are going to try to offer it at least one in person class to International students. Just so that They can stay in the country. But the community on these campuses is also stepping in to try to protect their fellow International students professors are offering in person independent studies on an individual basis to students that are affected and students in the US are giving up their spots and in-person classes to International students.

3 (20m 27s):
So we really are seeing a kind of rallying around the international student community on these campuses. There's like a Grassroots movement to protect these students from being deported. Yeah, absolutely. And I think the value to the university community is it goes beyond just sort of the the dollars that these students bring in and we're seeing that play out in the way that professors and students are grafting do we know if these lawsuits stand a chance to stop this from happening? I mean do these schools have a good case? I see sort of likely to Sure that they have a lot of discretion in this situation The Hope from immigration attorneys is that this litigation will at least delay the implementation of this new guidance until the worst of the pandemic is passed and schools will reopen for in-person classes.

3 (21m 18s):
Anyway, that's the long-term objective of these places, but we should know more by next Wednesday July 15th, when the judge and the Harvard and MIT case is supposed to issue a ruling. Hmm. What does this mean for like International students? Like broadly, I mean I asked valeriya how she feels about the United States after all this but I wonder you know more broadly speaking. I mean, I wouldn't I wouldn't be surprised that this is becoming a heck of a lot less of an attractive place for international students to come study. Yeah, we've seen almost a 10% decline in enrollment from foreign students since Trump would selected. So these are policies do have an impact in terms of the United States.

3 (22m 3s):
activist as a destination for these students and for those who did choose to come here in the first place the idea of home. Just got a lot more complicated. Yeah, so some of them are still stranded abroad due to the pandemic related travel bans that are still in effect. I talked to one student in Sweden who it was wouldn't be able to come back for the fall semester just because she would have to go through another country that isn't facing a u.s. Imposed travel ban stay there for two weeks and then fly from there to the US so she could be let in and all that prohibitively expensive and others can't even go home at all.

3 (22m 47s):
You know, there's students from Venezuela from Example who can't go back to their home country because it's in the middle of a humanitarian and political crisis. So there are a lot of challenges that anyone international student could be facing and for many of them. It's impractical if not impossible to go home. You can find the: array has reporting on this story at vox.com. I'm Sean Rama's firm. This is today explained. It's a part of the VOX media podcast Network. Liz Nelson is the editorial director of vocs podcasts the today explain team includes.

3 (23m 27s):
I'm gonna al-saadi mu JT Jillian Weinberger Bridget McCarthy Halima shafting Shapiro, and no I'm hassenfeld who dabbles in music The Mysterious brake master cylinders entire life is music, and we had a whole lot of help this week. Paul Mounds e let's give them a round of a pulse.