2 (0s):
This holiday and I hope they mean Halloween you can give the gift of Hands-On learning with Kiko because kiwi code does Halloween costumes their subscriptions offered to light throughout the year though. So don't worry. If you're not into Halloween, they've got eight subscription lines for kids of all ages. You can find out more about kiwi code by going to Kiwi co.com explained and redeem the offer to try your first month for free. Alex Ward coast of the worldly podcast National Security reporter at vaux a little over a week ago. We covered that President Trump announced that he wanted to withdraw 50 US troops from northern Syria and just after that announcement.

2 (42s):
We left it at the fact that turkey was amassing troops and tanks and armored military vehicles on the Syrian border what has happened since then

4 (53s):
basically the nightmare

1 (54s):
scenario.

3 (59s):
Despite growing International condemnation turkey isn't holding back

4 (1m 6s):
attacked on all sides. The Kurds are pounded by Turkish artillery with death and destruction on the

2 (1m 11s):
ground

4 (1m 13s):
Trump didn't want those troops to come into Syria. They came into Syria Turkish troops along with their own proxies in the country have started to take over towns advancing with the help of Arab militias the

3 (1m 26s):
same ones we saw last. At night executing Courage by the roadside were at it

4 (1m 30s):
again. Today us officials. Tell NBC News killing Kurds American Allies, including a female Kurdish politician, you're seeing at least over a hundred thousand people being displaced because of fighting that's happening

3 (1m 43s):
Kurdish hospitals have been overwhelmed with casualties small children among them Turkish back militias took ground quickly and ruthlessly and even executed these Kurdish soldiers and civilians on the

4 (1m 57s):
Roadside. So if you were looking for the worst case scenario of what could have happened when Trump as withdrawal announcement. We're already

1 (2m 4s):
there.

2 (2m 10s):
When exactly did Turkish

4 (2m 11s):
forces enter Syria, the best reporting we have is that it was Wednesday. So the White House made a late Sunday announcement last week that the US troops are withdrawing which meant about 72 hours later turkey came in. So we've now been dealing with six days of pure

2 (2m 26s):
violence. What did the Turkish troops do as soon as they entered Syria

4 (2m 29s):
Turkish back troops, at least from what we've seen from horrifying videos online have started to shoot it Kurt. In fact kill Kurds, they have started to move further Southward. So instead of what turkey has always said it wanted about 20 kilometers or so of a buffer zone between the Syrian territory and turkey itself. It sounds like they're gonna move even further

2 (2m 52s):
Southward what are the Kurds doing or they fleeing or they fighting or both

4 (2m 56s):
a bit of both the other bit is that they are still continuing to guard certain camps where there are internally displaced people from the years of the Syrian Civil War and were there even Isis Detainees but a lot of them of course are fleeing because it is just a horrible situation and they are trying to escape being killed all this as serious State News

3 (3m 16s):
Agency says units from the Syrian Army a moving North to confront turkeys

4 (3m 21s):
offencive right. Now. What you have is Kurdish forces. They have made a deal with Syrian president Bashar al-assad. So his forces are already in Northern Syria. So you're going to start seeing a Turkish Syria Clash that the Kurds will definitely be fighting also on the side side.

2 (3m 39s):
What's the history of the relationship between Syrian Kurds and Bashar al-assad the Syrian Rebel

4 (3m 46s):
forces that America had backed for a long time originally. A lot of them were going against Assad, but then what America started backing an anti-isis forces, so the curves that we've been backing have been pretty much solely focused on defeating Isis Assad's mostly been focused on anti-government Rebels. So you've seen an American enemy Assad now. Now join a American Ally the Kurds to fight against a mutual enemy which is

2 (4m 13s):
turkey. So to be clear here turkey is at war with the Kurds who are in Syria and thus the Kurds and Syria are at war with turkey

4 (4m 24s):
exactly and America right now

2 (4m 25s):
nowhere to be seen and what kind of vacuum does that create for Isis which the Kurds were suppressant. The last thing America would want is for more

4 (4m 34s):
chaos to come out and Syria that would give ice. Room to both recruit and reconstitute its ranks and that's exactly what happened as turkeys moved Southward into Syria. We've just seen Kurdish Fighters try to fend them off. Their attention is taken elsewhere and there are detainees many of which are isis-linked cheering what's happening right now to the point that they are starting riots raising tens going after guards and trying to escape hundreds of family members of Isis

3 (5m 3s):
Fighters today broke out of a detention camp

4 (5m 6s):
we It a prison packed with 5,000 Isis

3 (5m 9s):
detainees. There are now attempted break outs here

1 (5m 12s):
daily

4 (5m 15s):
and one could imagine that Isis reconstitute itself and comes back stronger, you know months or years from

1 (5m 21s):
now

2 (5m 23s):
and what about the rest of the United States troops that are in Syria. I mean Trump was talking about moving 50 of them, but there's like another thousand right?

4 (5m 31s):
They were originally two thousand and December a thousand as of March and the what we first heard from the white Last week was hey only 50 US troops are in the north are heading Southward because the Turks are coming. What changed is that? And we learned on Sunday from defense secretary Mark esper, which he mentions it onto Sunday new shows. So I

3 (5m 49s):
spoke with the president last night after discussions with the rest of National Security team, and he directed that we begin a deliberate withdrawal of forces from northern Syria from northern Syria. This is where most of our forces are. So 1,000 troops the how

4 (6m 3s):
long he goes we have no timeline for The removal reports differ there are some saying it's going to be within days. There are other saying it will be more deliberate. But basically it's America's getting

2 (6m 14s):
out the President Trump know that this was coming when he said he would move 50 US troops last Sunday.

4 (6m 20s):
He surely was warned about this. I mean last December he basically tried the same thing right? We're pulling all US troops

3 (6m 27s):
out we have won against Isis and now it's time for our troops to come back

4 (6m 32s):
home that move was reversed because surely someone talk to me about These ramifications

2 (6m 37s):
in this decision is a withdrawal of all of our

3 (6m 41s):
forces in Syria. Now, we're dramatically less safe. This is an abominable i'f

4 (6m 47s):
move but even Trump would tweet like I have, you know waited for 3 years now is the time and so either he knew this was coming and didn't care or I don't even know if this is worse, but he's withdrawing US troops and then this happened but what we know is that Trump was very clearly underprepared for his phone call with are too Juan back on October 6th, I believe it was and effectively when turkey said we want to come in Trump goes. Okay, you you handle the Isis deal you handle Northern Syria. We don't need to be there and that works perfectly for turkey and Trump clearly didn't think of the ramifications of what could have happened in his mind. Perhaps her key was going to live up to its expectations and deal with Isis and protect the Kurds somehow, etc.

4 (7m 32s):
Etc. Clearly that has not happened.

3 (7m 36s):
So what? Are going to see as a lot of these Kurdish forces who were previously backed by the United States in northeastern Syria are now going to work with the Russians and the regime of Bashar al-assad. This is a major development because this is exactly what Russian President Vladimir Putin has been trying to do in Syria over a very long period of

4 (7m 54s):
time we've even seen on Tuesday the Russian government announced that it has troops effectively in the same area where US troops just left and so if you are Putin Trump's withdrawal as a major gift you Troops with the US was you now have more influence in Syria. You're helping Assad and you're able to go up against turkey, which is a NATO

2 (8m 14s):
Ally this sounds like a powder keg that was waiting to explode for years. And the one thing that was standing in the way was US troops. Why did the president acquiesce last week?

4 (8m 28s):
It seems because erdowan asked him to turkey has long been saying it wanted to go into Northern Syria to take out the Kurds effectively. The only reason they hadn't done so was because there were a few American troops in the north as a buffer and tripwire that turkey would not risk shooting against the NATO Ally. Well that risk is gone. And so that's why they're in and that's why we're in this mess after all the blowback the

2 (8m 53s):
president received when he announced that he was going to pull out troops. He kind of conceited on some level and promised to quote totally destroy and obliterate Turkey's economy if they started slaughtering Syrian Kurds, Now that they have started to do that. Is he doing anything?

4 (9m 10s):
Yeah Trump followed through on his threat. He put out a statement on Monday saying that dealing with Lindsey Graham and many members of Congress including Democrats about imposing powerful sanctions on

2 (9m 22s):
Turkey

4 (9m 23s):
treasury is ready to go additional legislation may

2 (9m 26s):
be sought there is great consensus on this turkey has asked that it not be done stay tuned

3 (9m 33s):
and he's sending his vice president Mike Pence and National Security adviser to Turkey the president of the United States called on the president turkey to stop The Invasion to enact an immediate ceasefire and to begin negotiations with Kurdish forces in

4 (9m 54s):
Syria Treasury Department is about to start putting in penalties on current and former officials of the Turkish government and basically anyone contributing to turkey's actions in Syria. He's even going to raise steel tariffs up to 50% and that's a big deal and that basically all I trade negotiations with turkey are just going to cease for right now. It doesn't we don't really have a timeline for when this is going to happen. But now this is the most credible threat from Trump that sanctions are coming over turkey's own actions in Syria.

1 (10m 31s):
The problem here

2 (10m 33s):
is that of

4 (10m 34s):
course, this is the u.s. Going after a NATO Ally and this is going to immediately tank relations between the two

2 (10m 40s):
countries, but that's

4 (10m 42s):
only part of the course because even though they have an allies for decades the US and turkey have just not been friends for a while. And this is only the latest and frankly most horrifying aspect of their Fall From Grace.

2 (11m 5s):
more on the u.s. Turkey relationship in a minute on today

1 (11m 9s):
explained

2 (11m 31s):
I think the idea behind Kiko is you get kids building stuff that Kimiko sends you and then maybe you just turn your kids into people who want to build solutions to their problems and man. Let me tell you the world's got some problems. So, you know, raise the next generation of problem solvers by going to Kiwi co.com explained you get a chance to learn more about kiwi. You'll get a chance to try them out for one month for totally free. I know a young man who uses kiwi color and I asked him. Hey Desmond. Are you gonna get a kiwi Coke rate for Halloween to make your own costume? And you know what? He said. He said no, I already have a couple key. We co-create that I'm working on but also I already have an idea to make my own costume.

2 (12m 14s):
Maybe that's the future. Maybe you'll be okay kid. You want to get a kiwi co-create to like the teach you how to build furniture and your kid will be like, no Dad. I'm already building an entire, you know outdoor patio. A set for you and you'll be like wow. I'm so glad I got kiwi Co Alex the relationship between the United States and Turkey seems like it's about to take a Southward turn has it always been as Rocky as it is right now or was there some sort of golden

4 (12m 50s):
age there never really was a golden age the US and turkey you've never really been the most harmonious Partners the best way I can encapsulate it is basically throughout the Cold War. They were friends of convenience because they both were against the Soviet Union, but then you get to the 90s and then they end up being on the somewhat of an opposite side of a US policy decision. And the 1991 Gulf War and that started tanking in the relationship. That's really only gotten worse in recent years.

2 (13m 19s):
What happened during the Gulf War

3 (13m 20s):
just two hours ago Allied Air Forces began an attack on Military Targets in Iraq and

4 (13m 26s):
Kuwait as the US was fighting in Iraq instead of a no-fly zone in the northern part of the country. That's where the Kurds happen to be and the Kurds used that some somewhat freedom from being bombed to try to develop their own state, which is Curtis. Stan which is they are a large stateless people and believe that they should have their own country. Here's the issue Northern Iraq happens to be on the border with Southeastern turkey and turkey does not like having cards on its border as we already know from Syria and that's just really been the source of tension between the u.s. And turkeys at the US will work with the Kurds when turkey does not want them to

2 (14m 1s):
we're talking about some almost 30 year old history here. How has the relationship between the United States and Turkey evolved since the Gulf War

4 (14m 9s):
they are NATO allies so they are treated. Come together right that is a big deal countries don't necessarily sign treaties with each other that are about defending them if attacked unless they have some sort of reason for being together the issue here is that when it comes to a lot of Middle East issues the US and turkey seem to be a bit on opposite sides. So part of the problem is turkey believes itself to be a bigger power broker the u.s. Of course wants to be the power broker in the region and Then if we go to the early 2000s, we have President are two one come in and start to move his country which was a democracy closer to a Ron and to Russia and part of that is just geopolitics and needing to you know, be friendly to countries that are around but the other part of it is it really seems that erdowan is moving into more authoritarian Direction, which does not work with our own stated policies.

4 (15m 6s):
So

2 (15m 7s):
erdowan comes into power during George W Bush's Administration. What's the relationship between the u.s. And

4 (15m 13s):
turkey been like since then as one expert told me the u.s. Turkey relationship has been nothing less than a slow motion car crash on the major issues that turkey really cares about which is the Kurds which is a guy in a Potala gulen who are diwan believes tries to do a coup against him

3 (15m 35s):
turkeys government now with threatening words for the Obama Administration demanding the extradition of the Turkish cleric who lives in Pennsylvania who supporters they accused of spearheading the uprising

4 (15m 46s):
when it comes to relationships with Russia

3 (15m 49s):
Turkish president recep erdogan defy the US and fellow NATO allies by purchasing a new missile system from

4 (15m 56s):
Russia when it comes to democracy in his own country the u.s. And turkey on opposite sides. They have kind of work together despite these disagreements. But what we're seeing now is that at least when it comes to erdowan, it does not really sitting around anymore, especially on the courtesy. You and so this slow motion car crashes finally like completing. We've reached the point where the you know that the cars of accordioned and it's really hard to break them

2 (16m 20s):
apart. But this car crash in is kind of like lopsided. I mean on one hand you have President Trump removing troops from Syria, which allows turkey to go in and fill this vacuum and on the other hand you have President Trump threatening sanctions and and saying that the Turks need to respect the The Kurds and and and maintain this fight against Isis. I mean what's turkey to think of President Trump sort of two-sided policy here that he's an easy

1 (16m 51s):
mark.

4 (16m 55s):
I mean if your turkey you've played this perfectly well if you are an heir to one's head, you're thinking I have a guy who is consistently said, I want out of Syria. I have a guy who does not seem to understand the intricacies of the Kurdish Turkish issue and will sanction me likely even if I go in but by that point I will have established what I want which is the buffer zone and even have some control over Northern Syria. So all it takes it seems is to get Trump. A phone call and make the ask and Trump goes. Okay, you got it and to some extent I blame the people around Trump because they've got to know that Trump is going to acquiesce to that.

4 (17m 37s):
There's no way that Trump toes the American policy line of all we will stay in Northern Syria until we do a diplomatic agreement between the Turks and the Kurds and a power-sharing and local governance. Trump doesn't care about that. He's been consistent since the campaign. I want my troops out so turkey is just had this given to them on a silver platter. And if your are two one every time you get on the phone with Trump or every time you meet him you say hey, man, let us go in and you guys can get out and Trump likely not having all of this in his head goes. You got it dude.

2 (18m 8s):
If this was just a gross miscalculation on President Trump's part. Is it too late to

4 (18m 14s):
undo? Yeah, man way too late. Look the US was allied with the cards. The Kurds are now allied with Assad. They're not going to come back and why should they there's no reason for them to trust the Us anymore. This was almost literally the absolute worst way to do it a Sunday night statement from the press secretary with no one knowing what's going on and then on top of that looking like oh and there was this somewhat agreement where Trump said to erdowan come in Turkey you do our job for us when they clearly were never going to do that.

2 (18m 47s):
Where does that leave the region now? I mean, how is the Power Balance

4 (18m 50s):
shifted? Well, if you want an American presence and in the Middle East But there still is some don't get me wrong, but it's just not in Syria. The US did not have many hands to play in Syria. What had had was those thousand troops that card is gone. We have no cards to play. And so what you're going to see now is Russia and Iran have greater authority to operate in Syria. You have Assad gaining back territory that the Kurds had thanks to American help and protection. You've got turkey moving Southward to pursue its own antique heard strategy, which means you're going to have a Recurred Russia vs. Turkey War that is the big fear.

4 (19m 31s):
And in fact, that's somewhat happening right now. And if you are the u.s. You're thinking wait, our NATO Ally is in a war does that mean the US will may have to come to turkey's a Down the Line like these are the kinds of

2 (19m 42s):
things that they should have

4 (19m 44s):
thought about and brief Trump on and if Trump was not going to think through these things and come out with a clear message to erdowan. They should have put him on that call. They put them on that call erdowan got what he wanted. And now a lot of people are dying because of that

1 (19m 59s):
unpreparedness.

2 (20m 8s):
Alex Ward is one of the hosts of the worldly podcast from box every Thursday. He and his co-hosts breakdown u.s. Foreign policy and the most important news happening around the world and you can always find out more about Syria from Alex at vox.com. I'm Sean rhombus from this is today

1 (20m 25s):
explained.

2 (20m 45s):
Thank you to the kind people at kiwi Co for supporting the show today QB Co has Hands-On projects that expose young people to science technology engineering math Art and Design. They can build a problem solving skills and have fun while doing it Kiko is offering you listener the chance to get your first month for free to redeem that offer hit that kiwi co.com with a slash followed by explained.