0 (1s):
Every two years the World Wildlife Fund releases its Living Planet Report. It assesses how we're doing planet wise. The WWF's 2022 report came out yesterday, and you won't be shocked to learn we are not doing very well. There's

1 (15s):
Been a 69% decline in monitored wildlife populations between 1970 and 2018,

0 (22s):
But that's not what this episode is about. Today we bring you good news because it turns out that on the subject of endangered species and close to endangered species and species that might be near too close to endangerment, there is agreement that we must do something about it. Among many Americans coming up on today explained the story of how the Endangered Species Act came to be, how it worked, and how almost 50 years later, it's prompted another similar attempt to save the planet, at least parts of it. Support for today's show comes from Slack.

0 (1m 2s):
If you ever wanted to send a group of your coworkers an important document or a spreadsheet or just a funny gift, Slack can help with all of that. Slack can be your digital headquarters, bringing your teams partners and tools together in an easy to use and relentless system. Slack helps empower flexibility, automate workflows, and accelerate your projects to help craft your work fast. In a work from anywhere, world Slack can be your one digital space for organized and efficient and relentless productivity. You can get started at slack.com/dhq slack where the future works.

2 (1m 38s):
Hello,

3 (1m 39s):
It's Sean. You know me as the host of today explained, but I wanna know a bit more about you. We all do, not just me, me and Noel and the rest of the today explained team, the people who help us make editorial decisions, the people who help us make marketing decisions, the people who help us try and grow this show. Wanna know a bit more about you stuff. Like how often do you listen to this show? Do you ever visit the website v.com? Do you ever watch v stuff on YouTube or Netflix? We wanna know all those kinds of things because they help us make a whole host of decisions. Go to vox.com/feedback today. There's a link to the survey in the show notes as well.

3 (2m 22s):
We really appreciate the time you take to let us know a bit more about you. Thank you.

0 (2m 38s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. Colin O'Meara is the head of the National Wildlife Federation. And in that role, he is intimately familiar with the events of 1973 that led to the Endangered Species Act being signed into law. It was, he says, just a very different time with very different circumstances in which Americans suddenly started to really pay attention to wildlife. It's,

4 (3m 2s):
It's a combination of things. Americans across the country through their magazines like National Wildlife or Time Magazine, through, you know, different documentaries that folks have watch on, you know, Saturdays and Sundays. There

5 (3m 12s):
Was once a time when all of North America was a great green wilderness. Nature's undisputed domain,

4 (3m 18s):
The Wonders of Wildlife or the great Disney Series.

5 (3m 22s):
There are many hidden valleys here, remote, almost inaccessible to men, where time is still measured by the passing seasons and only nature's law prevails.

4 (3m 31s):
They started hearing and learning about the plight of a whole range of species.

5 (3m 35s):
The beaver is a solid citizen and he builds a solid house. He has no use for ality, nor will he even pause to pass the time of day with a fellow worker.

4 (3m 44s):
So think about the bald eagle, the Paragon Falcon, the the manatee, the, a lot of the sea turtles that, that are so revered. The American alligator, the brown pelican, a whole range of big iconic species. The grizzly bear that they were seeing on their TVs, reading about in their magazines that were all at heightened risk of extinction. And it led to a such kind of call for action in every corner of the country. It created the political will across party lines that had began having conversations with what became the Endangered Species Act

0 (4m 13s):
Across party lines. Who was the president in 1973? I'm trying to remember.

4 (4m 18s):
That would be President Nixon, President

0 (4m 20s):
Nixon, a Republican. Not a Republican that we think of as an earth hugger, but like it passed under Nixon. That seems significant. Well,

4 (4m 28s):
And it, it's interesting cuz I mean I know he doesn't have that reputation, but the, the Environmental Protection Agency, the EPA was founded during his tenure.

6 (4m 34s):
We have gone through a period and the energy crisis when there have been evidences that these two great interests, one, production and two, a clean environment seem to come in conflict. But let me tell you what the answer is. We can have both

4 (4m 54s):
The Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, all past when he was president, and again, largely democratic congresses with huge Republican support. So John Dingle, kind of the famous conservationists from the great state of Michigan working with many of other leaders across party lines, you know, past the esa with just huge bipartisan margins. I mean much greater than anything we we could even envision today. And it was signed into law by, by President Nixon.

0 (5m 15s):
So much of the talk now is how we get people to care about this. Climate change is lurking at the edge of so many people's minds. Its effects are with us every day. It's almost like we need a blockbuster event or a blockbuster piece of culture that everyone becomes obsessed with, which existed back then.

4 (5m 35s):
Silent Spring, of course, is often used talking about the p of the birds. You know, Rachel Carson's amazing work, originally a a biologist with a fish and wildlife service that helped make this connection between pesticides and different types of chemical pollution and the impact it had on, on birds. And as the Silent Spring refers to the, the death of, you know, billions of birds.

7 (5m 53s):
These sprays, dust and aerosols are now applied almost universally to farms, gardens, forests and homes, Non-selective chemicals that have the power to kill every insect, the good and the bad to steal the song of birds and the leaping of fish and streams. All this though, the intended target may be only a few weeds or insects.

4 (6m 16s):
I do think that the, the rise of, of color television and the rise of some of the move the wildlife movies like the footage was incredibly powerful. What

0 (6m 24s):
Were some of the movies of the

4 (6m 25s):
Time? I mean, so it was out of the, the Walt Disney Company's specials

5 (6m 29s):
In this land of many mysteries, it's a strange fact that the largest legends seemed to collect around the smallest creatures. One of these is a mousey little rodent called Thelen. Here's an actual living legend.

4 (6m 42s):
So they had these great nature specials in the sixties and seventies that would introduce all kinds of species. Imagine in a, you know, pre streaming, pre-phone kind of environment, pre YouTube, pre Netflix environment where, you know, the, the family would ask you to gather on a Sunday or a Saturday evening to watch what was on broadcast television. And a lot of the, the shows that were broadcast on the weekends had nature elements to them.

8 (7m 5s):
The Comb Jelly Family, which is a kind of relative of the, So rates has eight rows of Celia, which have the appearance of combs. When light is reflected on the Celia as they move to and fro in a regular manner, they shine like a rainbow. Their body is too fragile even to keep specimens up.

4 (7m 26s):
And so, you know, in people's homes, they'd be able to see these great species that, you know, unless they were fortunate to be able to, you know, fill up the, the, the Winnebago or the, the, the station wagon at the time to drive cross country wouldn't have exposure to on their own.

0 (7m 40s):
So the Endangered Species Act is credited, as you said, for working really well, I think you said the percentage of wildlife it was intended to protect it staved off what percentage from extinction?

4 (7m 50s):
Yeah, so 99% of the species that have been listed, so over 1600 species have been listed and 99% of them are still with us today, which is a remarkable accomplishment.

0 (8m 1s):
If I could whistle, I would whistle. Tell me about some of the success stories.

4 (8m 4s):
Yeah, there's some great ones, right? I mean, and the bald eagle really is one of the best scientists had been clamoring for years that the primary toxic material that was leading to their their death was a DDT

9 (8m 16s):
Absorbed through the feat or other parts of the body. D D T affects the nervous system and motor coordination of the insect. Several hours elapsed before symptoms developed, then in sequence follow restlessness, tremors, convulsions, paralysis and death.

4 (8m 34s):
And so that, that substance was banned in the early 1970s as a result of the Endangered Species Act. And today, those, those populations are flourishing across the country. Similarly with like the grizzly bear in Yellowstone, The, the level of degradation of the species was just accelerating to the point where it was, it was really a risk of going extinct. And so again, protections came in to recover those populations, restore habitat, reduce some of the threats that they were facing. And so, and there's a million of these stories. I mean, there's, there's dozens, at least I get pretty excited about it because I think they show us what can happen when we pay, you know, great attention and kind of have a collective effort to save these just like iconic species that I think many of us can't imagine life without. So

0 (9m 13s):
This law really ends up working and because money is the thing that politicians tend to fight about, it makes me wonder, did it take a lot of money to get all of these environmental advances beyond just the esa done

4 (9m 28s):
In the late 1960s when the Clean Water Act was being passed? The fight wasn't over the regulations, it was over the money, and Nixon actually vetoed the bill the first time over the money. And so they, the Congress came back and immediately overwrote it with more than 430 votes. I mean, it was an amazing kind of show of force for the Congress to pass the act complete bipartisanship. The

6 (9m 50s):
Time has come for man to make his peace with nature. Let us renew our commitment, let us redouble our effort. The quality of our life on this good land is a cause to unite all Americans.

4 (10m 3s):
But when the ESA negotiations were happening a couple years later, that same fear was still there. And the original idea was to have a pot of money available every year to try to recover species. And it's never been fully funded, even at the level was approved for,

10 (10m 17s):
We currently don't have enough money to recover more than probably 25% of all the species. So under current funding scenarios, we cannot recover everything. I'm not sure we can even save everything from extinction.

4 (10m 29s):
Basically we shifted most of the cost for recovering these species kind of from the public sector to the private sector. And some of that's, you know, some of that's appropriate because, you know, different industries have different impacts. But, you know, we've basically done most of this through regulation as opposed to through investment. And it's, it's frankly a more expensive way to do it. In some cases, like if we had just invested a little bit in the last 50 year on years on saving species before they were on the brink of extinction, we could have saved many species that wound up on the list.

0 (11m 4s):
Okay, so Colin, the Endangered Species Act worked. There is no way, you can't see 99% success rate and, and say it did anything other than work. So all of the lawmakers in the United States, for the most part, the same ones, they've all been on board for the past 50 years.

4 (11m 22s):
I wish I could tell that story. I mean, so when, when the, when when the ESA passed in the Senate it was, it was 92 to nothing cheaper. I mean, just a remarkable, I mean 92 to nothing, not a single person, just this massive overwhelming show of bipartisan support. I think, you know, one of the criticisms kind of evolved since then is that it, it has imposed restrictions on different industries, so mainly industries that move dirt. And so there's been fights over forestry practices. There's been, you know, concerns around energy development and over the last few years, if you look at like the judicial arguments for why various like pipelines haven't gone forward, a large number of them are over, over endangered species right now. The Mountain Valley pipelines in the news, the

11 (12m 3s):
Pipeline lost a federal permit that would allow it to cross many streams in its path after environmental groups filed lawsuits. So for now, the project exists in pieces, a 300 mile long chain with hundreds of missing links.

4 (12m 17s):
So, you know, in this case, you know, it was a judge in the fourth Circuit basically looked at a, a biologic opinion from the Fish and Wildlife Service and said that it, it just did not sufficiently address the endangered species concerns. And so, you know, in that, and in this case, not to, not to bore your listeners, but it's a, the Roanoke long perch, which is a very small fish, and the candy darter, then they're both nearly extinct. And so, you know, because of that decision, you know, that project's not going forward, which is obviously the news right now as part of this permitting conversation that's happening in the Senate right now,

0 (12m 47s):
As significant and wide ranging as it was and is Congress is considering this new bill that some people see as a successor to the essay. Does the Endangered Species Act need a, a new go round?

4 (13m 1s):
It it, it does. And I think what what we've found is that the, the rate of of kind of habitat loss, the acceleration of species decline really requires new tools. The Endangered Species Act was always envisioned as like the last resort. And so it's a way to prevent a species that's already endangered or threatened to be endangered from fully going extinct. And it's exceptionally good at that. 99% of species that have been listed over the decades have not gone extinct. Where it's, where it's fallen short is around recovery and preventing species from actually winding up on the list in the first place. And in the US we have done an incredible job restoring the species that we hunt and fish and very little ends up being spent on the full diversity of wildlife, many of which are among the one third of all species that are at the greatest risk of high extinction in the, in the years ahead.

4 (13m 53s):
So this bill would actually help kind of move upstream, move beyond the emergency room, move further upstream to make sure we're saving all species before they reach the point of being on the brink of extinction.

2 (14m 29s):
Support

0 (14m 30s):
For today's show comes from Slack. Slack knows that it doesn't matter if you're in an office or working from home, getting on the same page with your team members can be difficult and that's why they've created a set of communication tools to help you and your teammates work together no matter where you are located. Here at today explained we use the huddle feature of Slack a lot. Slack can make you more organized and efficient in an ever evolving work from anywhere world. You can bring your team's, partners and tools together to empower flexibility, automate workflows, and accelerate your projects with ease. With Slack, you can use automated features such as the famous huddle channels, clips, and Slack connect to enable a more flexible, productive and even fun workflow for your company. You can get started at slack.com/dhq slack, where the future works.

12 (15m 18s):
The case of a missing indigenous woman sparks new questions about other missing and murdered indigenous women in Alaska. But when the cops stop looking for answers, a group of investigative reporters step in to bring the truth to light. This is where the thrilling new ABC drama Alaska Daily begins and where it's headed. We'll have you on the edge of your seat. Veteran journalist Eileen Fitzgerald joins a team of local reporters in Alaska to investigate the crimes no one else will. From the frozen tundra where the missing women was last seen to the Alaskan village, she called home, they will follow every twist and turn to uncover the truth behind these sinister crimes.

12 (15m 60s):
Starring two Time Academy Award winner Hillary Swank Grace Dove and scandals Jeff Perry and from Academy Award-winning screenwriter Tom McCarthy, watch Alaska Daily Thursdays on ABC and Stream. Next day on Hulu,

0 (16m 22s):
It's today explained. Benji Jones is an environmental reporter at Vox and Benji. We now know about the spectacular success of the Endangered Species Act, which prevented wildlife on the endangered species list from going extinct. Here we have Congress considering a new bill, the Recovering America's Wildlife Act or rawa, What is that legislation gonna do that the Endangered Species Act isn't already doing?

13 (16m 48s):
So you can think of the Endangered Species Act as kind of an emergency response plan for plants and animals that are in peril and at imminent risk of extinction. So in really bad shape, this new bill rawa is targeting species of plants and animals that might be endangered and threatened with extinction, but also animals that are not quite at that more severe status. From

14 (17m 13s):
Big horn shape to the sheer in Nevada Red Fox from the California condos to the cohost salmon and from moose to monarch butterflies, the intent of this legislation is to protect those and thousands of other iconic animals well before they need to be listed as endangered or

13 (17m 30s):
Threatened. And so RAO really captures a much larger group of plants and animals than are targeted by the endangered species list.

12 (17m 37s):
All

0 (17m 38s):
Right, so it's meant to protect wildlife before it ends up on the endangered species list. How's it gonna do that?

13 (17m 44s):
So the short answer is money. RAA includes 1.4 billion for state wildlife agencies and for indigenous territories. And that's a yearly figure. And to understand why this money is so important, it's helpful to understand what's lacking in terms of conservation across the us. So if you look at conservation in the us, much of it is led by states and these state wildlife agencies are really responsible for doing a lot of conservation. So restoring habitats, reintroducing species that have disappeared, managing hunting and fishing and so on.

15 (18m 21s):
We feel very strongly that it's the folks on the ground who know their communities far better than we do. And so it it makes sense that we are working to support the work that they're already doing on the ground.

13 (18m 33s):
And so states are really important when it comes to conservation. The problem is that historically they haven't had enough money to actually do their job. And part of that is because of this really interesting trend, which is that funding for state led conservation comes largely from licenses for hunting and fishing. So when you go out and hunt, you need to get a license, you pay for that, and that money helps support conservation. The challenge is that over time fewer and fewer people are actually hunting and fishing, which has actually shrunk the budget of state wildlife departments. And so that's where RAA comes in and helps fill the gap in funding that, that this kind of decline of hunting and fishing has created.

0 (19m 15s):
Okay, now one thing we know is that the government giving money to states, to people, to associations, it doesn't always like work. Well, our state wildlife agencies typically respect it as places that actually do do their jobs. They just really don't have the money to do them.

13 (19m 35s):
So that's a complicated question. I would say in general, yes. But there is something that's worth pointing out, which is that a lot of the funds that states do have right now for doing their job when it comes to conservation go towards protecting and managing populations of things that people like to hunt or fish, so like elk or lake trout and so on. Yet the kind of lesser known, less charismatic species don't get as much attention because

16 (19m 59s):
If you're endangered or threatened, it definitely helps if you are also cute, majestic or economically valuable. Those are the species that frequently get the lion share of government farm.

13 (20m 13s):
And so, yeah, so a lot of the money that we're seeing from, from hunting and fishing as a kind of fuel for these departments is going towards that group of animals. And that's another reason why conservation folks are so excited about rawa because it's not just gonna direct money towards game species, but towards any species that is in need of, of protection.

0 (20m 32s):
All right, so for the charismatic, endless charismatic species, this bill is gonna give them money. Talk about how much money and over what period of time.

13 (20m 41s):
The bill in total is 1.4 billion a year, and the vast majority of that, about 1.3 billion, is gonna be divvied up among states based on things like their population, their size, the number of federally threatened species that you can find there. And so big states that have lots of threatened species like California might get something like 50 million. Whereas some smaller states like Vermont, New Hampshire are gonna get quite a bit less. But we'll see in the millions for, for every state, pretty much

0 (21m 9s):
Calculator.com tells me this would average out two 26 million per state per year. Yeah, these are ambitious goals in the scheme of things. It doesn't sound like a ton of money, is it?

13 (21m 22s):
This is where things get a little bit more complicated and I I will try not to bore you, but basically every state has these plans called Wildlife Action Plans and they're essentially a blueprint for how to conserve the local plants and animals within that state. And they were created in 2005 and updated again in 2015. And this money that each state is gonna get is gonna be enough to cover 75% of those plans. That's where that 1.3 billion figure comes from is it should be enough to cover 75% of these wildlife action plans, which again, are just basically a blueprint for doing conservation in the state. What

0 (21m 57s):
Are some of the things you are hearing states are gonna do? Like what's sexy?

13 (22m 1s):
What's sexy? That's a good question. There's a very wide range of projects out there in terms of, of of what conservation needs look like. So it could be things like restoring the, the marshes and the salt marsh sparrow's habitat in New York, that's in the New York State Wildlife Conservation Plan. It could be things like introducing sterile mosquitoes that carry avian malaria in places like Hawaii. And so generally it's anything that would fall under the realm of kind of restoring populations of wildlife. And as we know, this is incredibly important right now because more than a third of wildlife in the US is potentially at risk of extinction. So the need is very, very big.

16 (22m 41s):
According to a recent United Nation study, plants and animals are becoming extinct at a rate faster than any time in human history.

0 (22m 51s):
Okay, so this is gonna be good for animals, it will be very good for plants, could be good for, for some birds. Who are the people that stand to benefit most from, from ua?

13 (23m 2s):
There's a clear benefit in RAWA for indigenous tribes across the country. And so a hundred million of the 1.4 billion bill is going directly to the country's 574 native tribes. And these tribes have long, long played a very important role in managing wildlife and habitat across the country. So this is like a big, big area. And yet they also have major funding issues, even less money or way less money actually, than states have. So RAA is actually gonna support their conservation efforts as well.

0 (23m 37s):
Benji, this is a lot of money. Where's it gonna come

13 (23m 40s):
From? That is a good question and one I, I can't really answer. So I pressed Senator Heinrich from New Mexico who's a co-sponsor of the bill and he basically said, we're not sure yet, but conversations are happening and it seems likely that they will find a solution. So that is very much the, the the topic that needs to be sorted out, which is how to pay for it. But from what I've heard, people are hopeful.

0 (24m 2s):
We are talking about a bill, not a law. How likely is it that RAO will pass?

13 (24m 8s):
Pretty much everyone I've talked to, including scientists and legislators mentioned that yes, this is very likely to pass should it come to a vote? It's supposed to go to a vote very soon. Last time I checked there were 16 Republican co-sponsors in the Senate. And so if it needs 60 votes to pass, it's very likely to pass. I think people have the perception that environmental issues tend to be very much liberal issues supported mostly by Democrats, but often actually wildlife conservation is a pretty bipartisan issue. And that's because it is important to hunters and fishers who often tilt conservatives.

13 (24m 50s):
So there is that support on that side. And also what's important about this bill specifically is that in preventing species from being listed under the Endangered Species Act, it is in theory preventing high regulatory burdens and costs associated with the Endangered Species Act. And that is very appealing across the board. Cause it basically means if we put the money in now to restore populations of animals, that means that we might not have to list them as endangered. And that means we can avoid a lot of government regulation that a lot of people don't like, especially on the conservative side. So I think for those reasons, this bill is pretty popular across the aisle.

0 (25m 32s):
Today's show was produced by Hot Modi and edited by Matthew Collect. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and Tori Dominguez. It was engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. The rest of our team includes Halima Shaw, Si Petros, Amanda Lu, Ellen Victoria Chamberlain of Shy Artsy Miles, Brian aem Shapiro, Jillian Weinberger, and my co-host Sean Ram Firm. Our supervising producer is Amina Elsa. We use music by Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. And we're distributed to public radio stations across the US in partnership with WNYC in New York. I'm Noel King today explained as part of the Box Media podcast network.