0 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from a show that's actually made from Vox creative, which is kind of like our sales department here at Vox. It's in collaboration with Ben and Jerry's you'll know them from the ice cream. It's not about ice cream. It's about their commitment to activism. Be it voting rights or climate justice. The show is called into the mix and your host, Ashley C. Ford sits down with artists, activists like Fabiano Rodriguez and Grammy winning musician and activist. John legend, to talk about how to use creativity as a tool for change and how to find joy along the road towards justice.

0 (41s):
Check out into the mix wherever you listen into the mix launches February 23rd

3 (1m 8s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. Russia has invaded Ukraine by land, air, and sea from the north south and east Russian troops are making for the capital key of this invasion was maybe just as much doubted as it was feared. Now it's a reality today on the show. We're going to hear from Ukrainians about what they've been experiencing over the last day. The first person we called Cody Vasyl

4 (1m 41s):
Is the rest of it too. If I see lot, the female Shapiro is the best way to buy.

3 (1m 48s):
No one at today explained speaks Ukrainian, but our engineer, a FIM Shapiro does speak some Russian and he volunteered to translate. Would you tell me your full name And where are you now? Mr. Vessel exhibit

4 (2m 6s):
Shasta In the town of Leviev in Ukraine,

3 (2m 14s):
But we got a little turned around. Linguistically is that in the north or the south of the country?

4 (2m 21s):
Is that in the, at the, at the, in the, at the <em></em> Ukrainian, the da that is in the, in the Zappa G I'm I'm so sorry.

3 (2m 33s):
So Mr. Basile told a FIM, hold on a second. Let me call my niece Yulia.

2 (2m 42s):
Hello.

4 (2m 46s):
My name is

3 (2m 48s):
Yulia LOPA shine sky ended up translating her uncle's Ukrainian into English and she answered a few of my questions too.

2 (2m 55s):
My uncle and I, we live here in Western Ukraine and here are no Russian throats. Well, yes, and they are on the Eastern side of Ukraine.

3 (3m 6s):
Are you doing anything to prepare right now for an invasion? If Russian troops do reach you

2 (3m 15s):
To answer this question because he hopes that they will not invite the whole territory of Ukraine.

3 (3m 22s):
He doesn't even want to engage with the question

2 (3m 29s):
We believe in our army and they will not let Russian troops innovate for the full scale, our country Yulia.

3 (3m 38s):
I understand what your uncle is saying, but are you doing anything to prepare or do you also have complete faith in the Ukrainian military?

2 (3m 48s):
I think the same way my uncle thinks, but frankly I have my family and I, we have all our documents ready. If it happens to leave, we do not want to do that. We are now we do not want to do that. We tried to stay safe and calm, especially calm, but if it happens well, I do not want to think about that if it's happened because it's, it's really scary and frustrating. If it happened.

3 (4m 19s):
Does anything look different in your city today? Are there more people out on the streets? Are there more soldiers out on the streets or does everything look normal

2 (4m 30s):
In general? All Ukrainians. They are called the people who live in big cities. They have taken their children to small, the smallest villages, but in general, the education is come here and people are ready to protect their territories or countries because we have been living with this situation for eight years. Now, it all started in 2014 when the Russian troops first invaded Ukraine. So we have been getting ready to that. So everybody is ready to protect for.

3 (5m 12s):
In what way are you prepared to protect yourselves? Do you have guns in the house? Do you have food supplies? How are you ready?

2 (5m 24s):
We have no food supply because everything is in the stores. We are not in panic, but like most of Ukrainian men, they are ready to take the gun into their hands and protect the territory. Nobody is thinking about leaving or stepping back. <em></em> do not wait for the science. They leave their houses and they go to the Eastern part of brain to support and help and protect.

3 (6m 1s):
Vladimir Putin ordered an invasion of your country. What do you think of him?

2 (6m 6s):
Well, I pray for him. Not many people support me in that, but I want him to change. I want him to be the thing different because we are peaceful nation. Ukraine is a peaceful nation. People who do not want to fight or do not want the war, my uncle would not approve that. Maybe he would say something different, but I know some people from Russia and I know that they support Ukraine. Not everybody is a game. So it depends, you know?

3 (6m 42s):
Yeah. I hear what you're saying. You're praying that Vladimir Putin changes his mind and stops this. So you are hopeful. What does your uncle think about Vladimir Putin?

2 (6m 53s):
Okay. I will ask him. <em></em> also . He thinks that Vladimir Putin is crazy, has gone crazy. His action, that they are illogical. It's even difficult to think about his actions to the full amount of devil.

3 (7m 26s):
His soul is full of the devil. And so I think your uncle is not praying for Vladimir Putin.

2 (7m 35s):
<em></em> . He is praying, especially his wife is praying and all around Ukraine in different churches. Give the DROS people get together to pray nonstop 24 7 for the peace between the countries.

3 (8m 6s):
How do you feel today about being Ukrainian?

2 (8m 11s):
I feel proud to be a crane yet. Sometimes I start crying and it's a lot of questions popped in my head. A why for what? Why, why does it, why has it happened? Why is it happening right now? And especially when people all over the world, even from the United States, from Europe, when people write to me and they know what is happening, and I feel proud, I feel really proud for my country. I feel proud for my army because people are ready to protect. People are ready to stand. They are not just for my story at union Republic, that they are part of Marsha.

2 (8m 60s):
And I sure that now the world know that Ukraine is not that Ukraine. It is Ukraine. It is without this article, that sounds like the former Russian Soviet union. Now it is country and I feel really proud of it.

3 (9m 18s):
And how does your uncle feel about being Ukrainian right now?

2 (9m 22s):
<em></em> very proud. Now. It is only nations. There are no more nations in the whole world, which stands with the gun against Russian Federation. It happened in the United States. The 11th of November in New York, the whole world was with the America, the whole world supported and pray for America today in Ukraine, it is not only two buildings, this other whole city buildings, villages, cities,

3 (10m 18s):
Yulia. I hope that you and your children and your uncle and the rest of your family are all safe. I really genuinely want to thank you for taking the time to talk to us today and we will keep your uncle's number and we will check back in with you.

2 (10m 33s):
Yeah, but I'll translate for him. <em></em> my sure. If we are still alive.

3 (10m 54s):
Oh dear. Mr.

2 (10m 56s):
. Thank you. And glory to Ukraine.

0 (11m 22s):
Support for their Saturday comes from Ben, Jerry and our friends over at Vox, creative who have made a new show called into the mix. It's hosted by Ashley C4. Who's going to be sitting down with artists, striving, real change. People like Grammy, winning musician and activist, John legend.

6 (11m 40s):
That's what artists should be part of is the imagination of the future is imagining a better world and creating art that shows people that

0 (11m 49s):
Also printmaker and climate activists, Fabiana Rodriguez.

7 (11m 54s):
I make things that can be multiplied and exist in many different places at once. And even, you know, the pint that I did with pecan resist. It's my art on something that is going to be reproduced. Thousands of times,

0 (12m 7s):
Ashley we'll be joined by all sorts of people who have made change throughout the season, including the queen of bounds. Big Frieda check out into the mix from box creative, wherever you listen.

8 (12m 21s):
The cut in her shoes is not just another interview podcast. It's a show that begins where other podcasts about success and with a look at what happens next. It's a show about how the structures that can inspire our own ambition can also be the same ones that get in the way of progress. My name is Lindsay peoples Wagner, the cut's editor in chief. And on each episode, I'm speaking with someone that the cut is watching admiring or just fascinated by together. We explored not only how they forged their own path, but also how they're bringing others along with them. Now that they've made it check out and follow the cut wherever you listen to podcasts.

3 (13m 3s):
After we got off the phone with Yulia and QWERTY, we called Igor costs off. He's a reporter at the key of independent.

9 (13m 11s):
I had to stop by my apartment. I was earlier taking shelter at a, in a subway station because there was a threat, a credible threat of possible bonding of Kia. What

3 (13m 26s):
Did it look like in the subway station?

9 (13m 29s):
People sitting around and winter clothes, some with kids, some with pets, just trying to do their best to stay, stay upbeat, stay, come. Everyone was just acting normal, I guess. But it's like, everyone knows it's not normal at all. I was there for a couple of hours. I might go back there depending on the situation everything's moving really fast. So we might have to make choices very quickly. If we're going to leave the city or what are we going to do?

3 (14m 8s):
Igor, is there any bombing or any offensive type action in Kia?

9 (14m 14s):
There were, there were explosions in Cuba. There were military infrastructure assets that had been attacked possibly by missiles. My friend on, in outer and the outer city, I woke up to an explosion and a plume of smoke, 15 miles from kilometers or miles. I forgot in. There was a fierce battle over the <em></em> airfield that Russia dropped its airborne troops on top of it. And that's acted with the attack. Ukrainian droves troops brought down a few of them.

9 (14m 56s):
So there's and we have information that Russian forces are streaming across the Chernobyl exclusion zone and having captured the power plant. And we have a news that several, multiple IL 76 transport planes full of airborne troops are on the way to key if possibly to try to be ahead of the government. Are you afraid? Well, that's a funny question. I mean, obviously I'm afraid that there was dread in my gut, just like there's dread and everybody's got, but I'm just trying to do my best to stay sane and focused and a rational.

3 (15m 36s):
Okay. What's your understanding Igor of how this invasion started earlier this morning,

9 (15m 42s):
Russia attack or many places at once. That's why it was, it spent months in circling the crane and building up on all sides is struck from the sea. They struck from Crimea. They struck from occupied, the napkin. They struck from the north, assuming they struck from Belarus. Yeah. They were preparing for this while it's not a surprise that they struck from all directions because we've seen them move into position to do exactly that. Many were surprised that Brusha did in fact, proceed with a full-scale invasion because many thought that an invasion of this scale was unlike what was less likely than, than continued saber rattling hybrid hybrid warfare and regional attacks.

3 (16m 31s):
You said that Russian forces are advancing toward Ukraine. That's the information you have to be head the government. What do you think Russia's objective here is, do you think they want to overthrow Volodymyr Zelensky

9 (16m 43s):
I think they want to possibly install a puppet regime and I don't know how long they plan to. I could probably Ukraine for, I do think that they want to change the government in QS and install like a set of puppets so they could have control over it. I don't know how successful it's going to be. Trainings are pretty United there's. Lots of people have weapons. There are territorial defense units, training, small unit tactics, and just to hate for it to just the sheer evil that's Russians are going to have a bad time. I think if they stay and try to occupy, like I said to another outlet, just now behind every blade of grass, who's going to be a Gunbarrel behind every tree.

9 (17m 32s):
There's going to be a javelin every corner. Who's going to be a nice in the back. But at the same time, this also means possibly hundreds, well, tens of thousands of lives, Ukrainian lives that might be lost during this bloody resistance. So I am, I don't know how many Ukrainian service members died. It seems like siting in multiple cities or spheres, I'm sure that many gave their lives. And just thinking about that is very upsetting to me.

3 (18m 6s):
Let Amir Putin has promised not to target civilians. Is there any credible information that Russian forces are attempting to avoid civilian casualties?

9 (18m 17s):
So dozens of civilians have been killed. Brocket, slammed into a rocket, slammed into civilian buildings. A child died in that building, due to the rockets. There were multiple civilian casualties in multiple cities and recently health minister health minister score. Victor course said that Russia is deliberately attacking hospitals. I haven't seen independent verification on that, but he's known as a trustworthy man, a trustworthy, official. And yeah, he says that Russia is attacking hospitals, which is a great violation of the Geneva convention.

3 (18m 54s):
It's just after seven 30 in Ukraine in the evening right now, do I have that? Right?

9 (19m 2s):
Okay.

3 (19m 3s):
So the sun has set on this day. How right now are ordinary Ukrainians responding? Are people fleeing?

9 (19m 12s):
Yeah. Many have fled throughout the day. There was a big line of cars out of cave. Going out. Some are some have elected not to leave yet. They're saying, well, my landlord says that once the artillery starts to coming down, then he's going to leave. And it's going to bug out with his parents and his kids. So some have decided to stay in fight. There was a general call for everyone who can hold a weapon to come out and sites. So many, many, many men, many women are going to their local little crews and offices to pick up a weapon and possibly die. Some people are just saying it put 10 seeing what happens. And there's a bunch of different strategies that Tokyo residents are employing everyone that I've seen so far.

9 (20m 0s):
I haven't seen any panic, just determination, you know, edginess and really desire to do the best, make the best out of the situation.

3 (20m 13s):
I wonder what you think about the international community's response so far, could the United States in the European union be doing more?

9 (20m 21s):
Of course they can be doing more. They should be doing everything they can to. I mean, obviously I know that NATO troops won't come into your crane, which is upsetting, but I understand that they don't want to fight Russia and cause a geopolitical crisis that might go nuclear. But we want you to do more, more quickly so that we can stop this mad invasion as quickly as possible so that the fewest possible people are appealed and the least possible damage is done.

3 (20m 53s):
Do you believe there's any hope for diplomacy at this point?

9 (20m 56s):
No. No. A rough phase with its action. What do you mean between Russia and

3 (21m 4s):
Between Russia and Ukraine? If Germany were to get involved to France, where to get involved at

9 (21m 9s):
The brush has shown that it's a permanently hostile state. Ukraine is now a person will never forgive. Ukraine is not also now permanently, permanently hostile to Russia, Germany and France. I'm sorry, but they have no spinal cord there. They've shown themselves to be spineless appeasers and they're, they're completely useless. And there's nothing anyone can do with diplomacy anymore. Like that Putin doesn't care. He's shown that he's, we're we're past diplomacy at this point.

3 (21m 49s):
What I've heard from Ukrainians throughout the day is we don't think the rest of the world is coming to save us. We're going to have to save ourselves. It sounds like you agree.

9 (21m 58s):
Yeah, I do. I mean, I hope the sanctions sort of have some kind of effect, but nobody's coming. I mean, Ukrainian is very grateful for the weapons. They're already being used to destroy Russian tanks and helicopters and planes and stuff. Everybody is very grateful for their weapons and sanctions also be good, but that's right. Nobody's trying to save them. We're just going to have to live or die on our own

3 (22m 34s):
Today's show was produced by we'll read and Victoria Chamberlain. It was edited by Matthew Colette and Sean Rama's from engineered and partially translated by a theme Shapiro. And fact-checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noel king. This is today. Explain