0 (1s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. Vladimir Putin may not have a lot of friends, but he's got an ACE in the hole.

2 (11s):
The war equals cons plus ideas. So essentially the church is the main provider of ideas, giving collegiate team mercy for the war.

0 (20s):
Take on patriarch hero. He's the leader of the Russian Orthodox church. And he has made so many pro war statements that Pope Francis on a zoom call reportedly warned him not to become Putin's alter boy. Now all of this has left one person who knows KIRO thinking the patriarch has made a deal with the devil because this is not the cure-all. He remembers he remembers a religious man who many years ago didn't have much use for the Kremlin coming up. We talked to the priest who knew the patriarch who made Russia's war. Holy

4 (60s):
Dakota is a show, but how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong hosted by me, Neil Patel editor in chief of the verge. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts, new episodes come out. Every Tuesday.

0 (1m 42s):
I'm Noel king it's today explained father Cyril overrun is a professor at the Stockholm school of theology in Sweden. He teaches ecclesiology international relations, and accuminism before that he worked with patriarchy Kiril for about 10 years.

2 (1m 58s):
Well, he's also known as the primate of an Orthodox church. The private means he is the top a hierarch in the church who manages the matters of the entire church, including the bishops. We are not exactly like the Catholic church, which has only one Pope. We have several primers like Pope's in the, in different churches and the Russian churches, the largest one

5 (2m 24s):
At <inaudible>

2 (2m 28s):
And Patrick Kareo is the most senior hierarchal He has run a very successful TV show on one of the Russian central channels. That TV show was really kind of evangelizing, you know, explaining people the gospel. And I should say that the original intention of Kadian was exactly to rib. And July's the Russian people after the collapse of the Soviet ideology. I think the Pope of Rome is sort of ideal for him or Billy Graham in the United States. In the, in the American context,

6 (3m 7s):
You have the ability to choose whether you will follow God, I'll go your own way, which Satan wants you to do.

2 (3m 14s):
He wants to be a prominent religious figure, not just for Russia, but for the entire globe. It seems to be not working for him because he has become a prominent figure in Russia has been included and accepted to the Russian establishment as the kind of top notch, top rank official, but he failed to become a global religious leader that is quite clear now. And it seems that one cannot be simultaneously a top, a religious leader in Russia and globally.

0 (4m 2s):
He is in his seventies, which means Russia was the Soviet union when he was born. Yeah,

2 (4m 9s):
Exactly. He's from a priestly family. His father was a priest indeed. And generally his family was a traditional Russian family of, you know, hardworking people, pious people who have had that, the church has The Soviet union was officially an atheist state, meaning the state formally tolerate it religion as a private thing. But even as a private thing, religion was persecuted in the Soviet union. The Soviet idea of the communist idea was to, to purge religion from all pockets of the Soviet society, even from the private lives of, of people that meant that someone who wanted to practice their crescendo, especially especially a younger person, was severely oppressed.

2 (4m 58s):
That person would be literally ostracized from everything. The only work that such a person might have had was a janitor. So no intellectual work. So a complete, complete met marginalization.

7 (5m 14s):
One night I was thrown into a cell with a broken window. The KGB was determined to do an experiment and freeze me,

2 (5m 22s):
Many of them under Stalin before the world war two, most bishops and most priests and most monks and Nance were killed. Literally

8 (5m 31s):
I, well, for the revolution in 1914, there were about 70,000 representatives of the clergy in Russia. But by the end of 1937, only 100 remained alive

2 (5m 42s):
And exactly on the such conditions, the future Patrick Curio, you op. And he still thinks that the church has reached a position of, of being prominent in the public space, just the opposite from what it was in the Soviet era. And he is very proud about what he has achieved.

0 (6m 3s):
You're laying out an arc in which to be a member of the Christian Church is to be maligned. And the church itself as an institution is maligned. How then, and when then did the church begin to develop a relationship with the atheist Kremlin?

2 (6m 20s):
It always had relationship with, with an atheist Kremlin, quite surprisingly. So on the one hand that the Kremlin, the communist regime killed exterminated the church, literally on the other hand, it used some church hierarchs their lives were threatened and the Kremlin forced those hierarchs to collaborate after the world war two, it was easier that hierarchs were not threatened with w with, you know, with imprisonment or being killed, but they were urged to collaboration with a S with a state by different privileges and benefits. For example, in the, in the situation when the entire country was behind the, the iron curtain and they could not, you know, leave the country could not go abroad.

2 (7m 7s):
Some hierarchs who, who agreed to collaborate with the Soviet regime were allowed to leave the country to go abroad in order to exactly, to disseminate the propaganda that the Soviet state wanted them to bring to the west. They, for example said that the church is fine in the Soviet union. It's not persecuted Of course, But that's how the Soviet state started using the church in the Soviet period to disseminate his propaganda in the west and in the east, in different contexts.

0 (7m 48s):
So you have this young priest Kiril who's rising through the ranks of that church. And it sounds to me like as a young man, he doesn't like the Kremlin at all

2 (7m 57s):
In the beginning. He was quite anti-Soviet. I should say he grew up and matured as a personality with aversion to the, you know, Soviet ideology to the Soviet lifestyle, even to the KGB. I think he was in the beginning of his career, in the church, he was quite tech non-conformance. He was accused widely of being to modernist, to modernizing, you know, to too much an open-minded person. And he did, I believe he was a very open-minded person. And then after he became the Patrick, I think he changed as a personality dramatically. He made it like a, like a U-turn from the most open-minded hierarch of the Russian church.

2 (8m 42s):
He became probably the most conservative. I want said, you know, that if the Correal before he was the Patrick were to be judged by the Patrick <inaudible> he not have had a chance to survive. He, I mean, the personality, the kind of personality that the Patrick curial opposed when he became the Patrick was exactly the kind of personality that he was big before he becomes the Patrick.

0 (9m 11s):
His younger self would hate his older

2 (9m 13s):
Self and vice versa. Probably he understands that Putin is not an ideal ruler. And probably he understands that Putin is, is a brute is kind of a blood thirsty, you know, tyrant, but can you perceive his relationship with Putin as a sort of a deal with the devil? The church is prosperous and the sushi at the same time, the church is as and caged as it was under the Soviet regime. So essentially the church is like in a golden cage on the poutine, Enjoys a lot of benefits from the regime at the same time, he has to keep silent.

2 (9m 56s):
That's why not the single voice from the Russian hierarchs can be heard, even though many disagree, the bishops of the Russian church, many disagree with what Putin does or with what the Patrick does, but they keep silent because they understand that the price to protest would be too high and they will lose every comfort that they enjoy

OurCrowd (10m 32s):
All around the world. Tech companies are innovating and driving returns for investors. OurCrowd analyzes companies across the global private market. Selecting those with the greatest growth potential, then brings them to you from personalized medicine to cybersecurity, to robotics, quantum computing, and more, and state-of-the-art labs, startup Krogers, and anywhere in between our crowd is identifying innovators. So you can invest when growth potential is greatest. Early OurCrowd's accredited investors have already invested over $1 billion in growing tech companies. And many of their members have benefited from the 46 IPO's or sale exits of their investments. Now you can truly diversify your portfolio by investing early in innovative private market companies@ourcrowdjointhefastestgrowingventurecapitalinvestmentcommunityatourcrowd.com slash explained that's our crowd.com/explained

Shopify (11m 30s):
Support for today's show comes from Shopify. If you are someone who sells things online, then you might need a commerce platform that makes it easy to sell the things online. Shopify is an all-in-one commerce platform. That includes everything you need to start, run and grow a business. Whether you're selling organic dog treats formal clothing for collectible dolls or hair pieces. Shopify gives entrepreneurs, startups the same set of resources that used to be reserved for big companies. That means businesses of any size can finally sell everywhere, sync up online and in-person sales and keep an eye on the data that matters most to them go to shopify.com/explained all lower case for a free 14 day trial and get full access to Shopify. As entire suite of features grow your business with Shopify today, go to shopify.com/explained. Now that's shopify.com/explained.

10 (12m 30s):
Pope Francis delivered a stern warning to the leader of the Russian Orthodox church. His message don't be Vladimir Putin's alter boy

0 (12m 41s):
It's today explained we're back with father Cyril overrun. Father's you're a, when does Kiril become patriarch of the Russian Orthodox church? How does he get into that position of power?

2 (12m 50s):
It was in 2009, and this was exactly the period when Putin was not the president. And I'm not sure that Putin would have supported if Putin was the president at the time, huh? They were not exactly friends and they are not still friends. I believe I described their relationship as a marriage of convenience, rather than the marriage of love because of curios nonconformism and put in you about that. Because putting his to his bones as a kid, you'd be person that created some kind of, I think, bad chemistry between the two personalities. But then when Kilian was selected, the Patrick and put in became soon reelected as the president, they started working together because they realized how they both could be benefited from each other

0 (13m 35s):
Father. I can understand why someone needs flat Amir Putin. He is a dangerous man. He's the leader of Russia. He is not someone that you want to cross. How does a priest, how does a holy man become so influential that Vladimir Putin has no choice, but to work with him?

2 (13m 52s):
Well, I think it was put in his choice to work with <inaudible>. Can you make himself useful to put in by providing this ideology of the Russian world that actually substituted the Soviet ideology? So we can actually receive two precious things from the church and the kiddo. The first thing was the ideology. Remember Rumi hated the communist ideology. I think Putin also hated the communist ideology and still hates the communist ideology. His generation was unable to produce any substitute for the Soviet ideology. And essentially what Kayla did. He offered a substitute for the communist ideology, which features are the symbolism and the figures from the Soviet era. For example, it includes the admiration of Stalin, even though Stalin had killed most bishops and priests of the Russian church.

2 (14m 41s):
Now, many priests and bishops in the Russian church admire Stalin. Another part is this monarchical idea, that idea of monarchy money, the Russian church, present a poutine as a sort of a new Monarch and you'd SAR. A successor of the Romanos essentially this ideology of the Russian world is a sort of nationalism. It states essentially that Russia is not just about the Russian ethnos. The Russian nation Russia is, is wider. It's about the inclusion of other nations to the, to the framework of the Russians, what they call civilization. And it includes Chechens or Buddhi arts or Stanley people and Ukrainians

11 (15m 28s):
<inaudible>, y'all like it. You have to get standards. Yeah, <inaudible> in Gooch <inaudible>

2 (15m 38s):
So they believe that the Ukrainians, oh, to be a part of this Rus Russian civilization, that therefore they believe that they don't attack another nation. They liberate their own nation from the Western influence from the wrong identity. That is because they believe in this Russian world, which is wider than Russia. And they believe that this Russian civilization is ha has an exceptional role to play in the history. Hanson's a messianic character of, of this civilization.

2 (16m 23s):
They believe that God wants Russia to play a special role in this world to sustain, you know, the basic principles of this world, the basic values of this world against the assumed Western corruption and decay <inaudible> and Putin went to the war, essentially, not so much even against Ukraine as against the west. And he believes that he has this special historical mission to liberate the world from itself.

0 (16m 56s):
Does he really believe this ideology? One in which a Christian Church is okay with Joseph Stalin?

2 (17m 2s):
I think in the beginning, I believe Patrick killer. When I knew him, he could not tolerate the figure of Stalin. Certainly he was anti Stalinist as here, you know, continue to be the paycheck and continue to produce this ideology. I think he came to tolerate Stalin more and more because Putin believes himself to be a sort of reincarnation of Stalin Curio supports it, even though I don't believe that he is, he still kind of sincerely deeply in his soul is in sympathy with the figure of Stalin.

0 (17m 35s):
Yes. You can determine if this strategy is working by asking how many Russians practice Orthodox Christianity and whether that number is growing under patriarchial

2 (17m 45s):
Sociological data indicate that how, how his project of evangelizing the Russian people failed. Because the number of those who started going to the church, the church goers did not increase dramatically. It's still does not exceed 5% of the total population, which is really, really tiny. It's tiny, but the numbers of those who support his ideology, his secular ideology and all this Russian world, Russian nationalism ideology, Russian exceptionalism ideology is very high, extremely high it's over 80%. So I th th this mixture that he has produced did not attract people to the church, but it has indoctrinated the Russians and has substituted really the Soviet ideology with another kind of, you know, a quasi Soviet ideology.

2 (18m 35s):
If you want,

0 (18m 36s):
What is the indoctrination look like with respect to the war in Ukraine? What's he saying to Russians,

2 (18m 42s):
Patrick, Carol just repeats the talking points of the Kremlin, propagandists and speakers, including putting himself. Actually, I would say that Putin speaks the language of the church to a great extent, and the uses, you know, the vocabulary which had been produced by the church and which includes the notions such as traditional values, meaning conservative agenda, which is by the way, widely spread in the United States through the conservative evangelical. So conservative Catholics. So Putin speaks that language. I hear some voices in the west that say, it's all about Putin. If Putin is gone, the Russian people will, will come back to the normal.

2 (19m 24s):
No, it's not going to happen. If he's gone, Putinism will stay. And I think it's, Putinism, I believe, unfortunately it will be sustained by the church if, if there are no changes happening to the church and to the Russian society. So even after Putin is gone, there is a huge work ahead of us to what I call <inaudible> denies the Russian society, the Russians. So the Russian psyche and the Russian church.

0 (19m 50s):
So you said that a lot of Orthodox churches in Ukraine are still part of the Russian Orthodox church. The patriarch of that church is saying things akin to, this is a holy war. This is a justified invasion. How are you? Cranium Christians responding?

2 (20m 5s):
Yes, they are absolutely disappointed and stand by such a declaration, send such statements. Even as I said in the beginning, given those who originally supported Russia were in favor of Russia, regardless of what happened in Ukraine. In 2014, they are really averted from Russia. So I don't, I think there are no supporters of Russia in the Ukrainian church anymore.

12 (20m 36s):
There were numerous appeals from the Ukrainian clergy to their hierarchs, to their bishops, asking them to stop commemorating patriarch karaoke, for example, or to break off ties with the Moscow by Trek at all.

2 (20m 50s):
And they are really confused. There are over 12,000 communities under the influence in the kind of communion with the Moscow, Patriot and Ukraine. And they are confused. They don't don't want many of them don't want to stay in the Moscow Patrik at anymore. And they look for themselves for other places where to go

13 (21m 10s):
In March. This parish decided to split from its mother church in Moscow, joining instead, the Istanbul based Orthodox church whose leader has criticized the war.

2 (21m 20s):
So they are on the way of seeking for a new home church home for themselves. And this has been caused by the statements of Patrick Creel

13 (21m 32s):
By separating from Moscow father Valotta Muir, Melanie choke told us we were adhering to the Christian vision of the world

14 (21m 39s):
Is sweet

0 (21m 41s):
As a priest and a practitioner and a leader in this religion. How worried or anxious or scared are you that this situation is threatening to tear the Orthodox church apart or at the very least de-legitimizing it in the eyes of millions of millions of people?

2 (21m 58s):
Well, I'm much more worried about the latter because India, the reputation of the Orthodox church is in danger. I'm myself critical about, you know, the standpoint of the Russian church in this war. But I believe that the entire church is not to be blamed for that. We are talking about the distortion or for doxy, the distortion of the tradition that we belong to. We have a special word in our tradition for that distortion. It's called heresy. We believe that to a great extent, what is being preached by the Patrick and his Confederates is sort of heresy and sort of distortion. And we need to correct this as for the divisions within the church.

2 (22m 38s):
They're painful, but I think we will manage eventually to kind of find a new equilibrium between different jurisdictions within their folks who we believe that we seem to belong to the one church, even though we, we commemorate different church leaders, but eventually I think we will manage to overcome this division.

0 (23m 5s):
Father. Cyril is hopeful about the future of the church, about the war. Well, Bladimir Putin spoke today at a big military parade in Moscow

15 (23m 15s):
Sold that the

16 (23m 17s):
Soldiers,

0 (23m 18s):
It marks the anniversary of the day that the Soviet union defeated the Nazis. It was the kind of speech we've come to expect from Putin. He fully defended the war in Ukraine. He said, this war is a fight against Nazi-ism

17 (23m 31s):
Fighting for the motherland for its future. So that's lessons of world war two are not forgotten so that there is no place in history for the punitive divisions of Nazis.

0 (23m 44s):
He didn't. And maybe this part is hopeful, suggest that he has any plans to expand the war. Right before Putin took his turn at that parade. Volodymyr Zelensky did the thing we've come to expect. He got out in front of Putin and the parade with a highly produced video.

18 (24m 5s):
They might need, <inaudible> a lamp <inaudible>

0 (24m 11s):
Zelensky is walking through empty streets, piano music is playing, and he says on the day of victory over Nazi-ism, we're fighting for a new victory. And then he says, we're smarter than our enemy by one book. And for a minute, it sort of seems like Zelinsky is going to say the

18 (24m 29s):
Bible.

0 (24m 31s):
That is not. In fact, he goes on to say, he's referring to a textbook on the history of Ukraine.

18 (24m 37s):
<inaudible> Nottage doors here. Put y'all on nasty nasty

0 (24m 51s):
Today's episode was produced by Halima Shaw and Tori Domingas. It was fact-checked religiously by Laura Bullard. It was edited by Matthew collect. It was engineered by Paul mousey. A FIM Shapiro helped us with translations. Thank you, FEMA. I'm Noel king it's today explained

18 (25m 7s):
<inaudible> is ocean scorable green <inaudible> but a more <inaudible> slow-mo gray

20 (26m 10s):
Hey folks. It's Preet Bharara host of stay tuned with Preet and cafe insider. As you have surely heard a draft majority opinion from the Supreme court that would overturn Roe V. Wade was leaked. This leads to countless questions. What does this mean for reproductive rights? Why was it leaked? What happens next here at the Vox media podcast network? We've got you covered I'm caffeine cider. I sat down with my cohost Joyce vans to discuss the legal substance of the opinion and the potential impact on other constitutional rights. You can find that for free in the state tuned podcast feed. My colleagues at today explained, also spoke to New York magazines.

20 (26m 50s):
Year-end Carmona to break down what this means for reproductive rights and on the weeds. Darra Lynne spoke with Supreme court expert in Millhiser to answer listener questions and dig into the details of the opinion. You can find these important conversations by searching for stay tuned with Preet today explained, and the weeds in your favorite podcast app, or visit podcasts dot Vox media.com for a full list of shows in the Vox media podcast network.