2 (4s):
Good afternoon passengers. Welcome to today. Explain this is the pre-show. Now it's meant for episode 1, 0 4, 6, a rough week for mass mandates. We are now inviting those passengers who are sick and tired of wearing masks to remove them passengers who have been wearing them on their chimps for the past two years, may now continue to do so freely. And finally, without recourse those passengers who remained concerned about COVID-19 and COVID 22 may feel free to stay masked. After all cases are rising. In most states, we ask that you Fasten your seatbelts because the department of justice is appealing that Florida judges ruling secure all baggage, because who are we kidding when it comes to this pandemic?

2 (45s):
We've all. Over-packed thanks again for riding today, explained, enjoy your flight.

4 (60s):
This episode is brought to you by DirecTV stream. DirecTV stream is your home for baseball. With the most regional sports networks of any streaming TV provider, direct TV stream gives you the most local baseball games, and that means more doubleheaders triple plays and no hitters from your local team. Watch this seasons action on DirecTV stream. Get the best of live TV and on demand at directv.com/baseball. Regional sports networks are available with choice. Packager hire may vary by zip code and package not available in all areas compatible device required. This is an ad for Roundup for lawns. It kills weeds down to the root without harming your lawn. It works on crab, grass, dandelions, Clover. It works on weeds with names you can't even pronounce it's Roundup for lawns.

4 (1m 41s):
When used as directed, always read and follow pesticide label directions

2 (1m 56s):
Today explained I'm Sean Rama's firm and I'm joined by Dylan Scott, senior correspondent covering health advocates.com to talk about the terrible, horrible, no good very bad week mask mandates had in the United States. The

5 (2m 9s):
Week started with a bang

6 (2m 13s):
Nationwide mass mandates for planes in public transit struck down by a federal judge just days after the CDC extended it, not by the administration says mass are no longer required.

7 (2m 23s):
The CDC is still recommending you wear a mask to keep yourself safe, but it is not required. Airlines pretty much are limited up to their passengers, whether they want to mascot

5 (2m 33s):
Immediately, people started taking off mass when the other, some people who were mid-flight pilots came over the radio and said that the mandate had been reversed. And so people like started celebrating

8 (2m 44s):
The transportation security administration will no longer enforce the federal mandate requiring mass and all us airports non-foreign aircraft.

1 (2m 57s):
What are they would like to wear that?

5 (3m 14s):
But then we got the news on Wednesday that the Biden ministration was going to appeal the judge's ruling that rescinded the mass mandate. So now we'll, we're waiting to see what happens next in the higher court.

2 (3m 25s):
Let's sort of wind back Dylan and talk about where this mask mandate on planes and on trains in this country stood before this week. Was it already sort of on its last legs or was it still alive and thriving? Well,

5 (3m 43s):
The CDC said recently that they, they recommended extending the mass mandate through early may, which, you know, I think reflected the fact that we have this BA to sub variant of Omicron that's, you know, starting to drive a new increase in cases nationwide. And so the know, it seemed like an appropriate recognition of the public health situation as it stands right now, but the mass mandate stays we're probably numbered to some degree, but this judge is ruling has really moved up the timeline and introduced a lot of confusion at a, at a pivotal moment in the pandemic,

2 (4m 13s):
Was this mask mandate, always vulnerable to the whims of like one random judge.

5 (4m 18s):
The Biden administration has been running into this problem throughout the pandemic. When they've tried to Institute a vaccine requirement for, for large employers or federal contractors, you know, those, those ended up getting tied up in the courts because somebody would appeal the federal guidance to a conservative judge in some part of the country. And in short order, you know, that judge would issue a ruling blocking or putting on hold or otherwise obstructing what the byte administration wanted to do. So that's just kind of the nature of the system is that, you know, people can take these kinds of federal guidance to courts and often they can find a friendly judge.

2 (4m 57s):
Let's talk about this Florida judge who threw this whole thing into a state of a people.

5 (5m 1s):
Yeah. You know, I I've heard that my colleague Ian Millhiser has some pretty strong feelings about this.

9 (5m 8s):
Whoa. Okay. Where do I start? Katherine Mizelle was 33 years old when she was appointed to the badge and there's nothing wrong with being 33, except for the fact that she had eight years of experience as a lawyer, she wasn't even old enough to be a partner in her law firm. Yet she was still an associate. She was still a junior lawyer, which he got a lifetime appointment. So the federal batch, but what she lacked in experience, she made up and having just about every conservative credential that a young lawyer can have. She clerked for Clarence Thomas. She worked in the Trump justice department. She gave a speech where she said that paper money is unconstitutional.

9 (5m 52s):
She thinks the dollar is unconstitutional. And so this opinion that she handed out on the mask bandaid is exactly what you would expect from someone with this resume. The law says that the CDC is allowed to make sanitation regulations. Her primary argument is that sanitation only refers to cleaning something up and not preventing it from getting dirty in the first place. Suppose that there was a problem with airline toilets. There was some malfunction. They started spewing sewage all over the place, under her opinion. The government's not allowed to order the airlines to fix their toilet. So they stopped spewing everywhere.

9 (6m 34s):
They have to wait until passengers are waiting through in the airline cabin before the government can order them to clean it up.

2 (6m 45s):
Thanks Ian Dylan, back to you, this judge's decision immediately trickles down from the skies to just about all other forms of transportation,

5 (6m 53s):
Right? Yes. And you know, you started to see at the, at the state and local level, you know, other transit agencies changing their policies in response.

13 (7m 1s):
Marta has changed is COVID-19 restrictions this morning. You don't need to take your masculine

14 (7m 6s):
Mass or no longer mandatory on any public transportation in Illinois

15 (7m 10s):
Besides a travel update. And this guys mass changes are taking place at Uber starting today. Rideshare drivers and passengers no longer have to wear a face covering

16 (7m 20s):
Maryland's department of transportation is the latest agency to update it's mask policy. So effective immediately masks are now optional at BWI airport and on all Maryland transit and administration buses, trains and mobility vehicles.

2 (7m 34s):
So this is just this amazing waterfall. The judge on Monday says the mass mandates done planes immediately mid-flight are lifting the mandates. Then it's Amtrak. Then it's local public transit. It's Uber, it's Lyft. What does the Biden administration say on Tuesday? How do they respond?

5 (7m 58s):
It took the bite administration a couple of days to figure out what they wanted to do. You know, at first the TSA just said like, well, because of this judge's ruling, we're going to stop enforcing the mass mandate. You know, president Biden. He was asked whether people should continue to mask on airplanes. And he said,

17 (8m 12s):
That's up to them.

5 (8m 14s):
That certainly seemed to suggest that this wasn't like a matter of great urgency from the Biden administration's perspective. Now what they were waiting for was for the CDC to kind of say like, well, do we still think that the public health situation necessitates having a mass mandate in place and on Wednesday, they did make that determination. And so the justice department has appealed this judge's ruling to a higher court, but I think the, the, the way that it played out certainly gave an indication that like ultimately, you know, the Biden administration may be okay with the mass mandate going away. Like I said, it's, it stays, we're probably numbered to some degree anyway, but there is a sort of secondary fight here, which is just about like how much authority the federal government has to set rules about public health.

5 (8m 60s):
And so part of the reason in all likelihood that their byte administration is pursuing this, this in the courts is they want to make sure that a precedent isn't set that would make it harder in the future for the CDC and federal agencies to put things like mass mandates into place. If they thought it was necessary.

7 (9m 17s):
Justin says it may appeal. If the CDC insist that the mask mandate is needed, but the justice department would not go for a stay. It really is concerned that this judge may have set precedent, prohibiting the CDC from taking action like this in the future with another health emergency.

2 (9m 32s):
Meanwhile, how did the American people feel about this?

5 (9m 36s):
The polling would suggest that people are actually generally fine with wearing masks. Like I, I saw something just in the last couple of days as all this was going on that more than half of Americans said, like, they thought people should continue to wear masks on airplanes and trains and public transportation. So, you know, I think there's probably a difference between people saying like in a poll, whether or not they think people should wear mass versus like, do they feel that strongly about it? You know, that we know there's kind of a phenomenon with those surveys where people like say what they think they're supposed to say. So I never know like how, how literally to take that kind of thing. So I think, you know, we'll, We will see going forward, like what the prevailing attitudes are.

5 (10m 16s):
Like I said, we're, we're entering a new phase of the pandemic where, you know, the, the burden is on the individual.

2 (10m 22s):
If you live in a state like Florida, it's been choose your own adventure for a long time.

5 (10m 26s):
The other thing is like, you know, this does kind of symbolize, you know, are moving on, answering some kind of post pandemic, new normal. But yeah, like for a lot of people, that's the way they've been acting the whole time, you know? And I think that's why we've seen over time. Some of this pushback against mass on, on airplanes and other places, We really are kind of moving on. And rather than there being this universal rule in place that everybody is supposed to follow, it's going to be up to you. Whether you think wearing a mask or keeping your distance from people or avoiding large indoor events is something that you want to do.

18 (11m 21s):
It's earth month here at box. So unexplainable is exploring some of the most fascinating mysteries of the ocean.

19 (11m 32s):
It's like interstellar travel while staying here on this planet, it

20 (11m 36s):
Was a fireworks display.

19 (11m 38s):
The closest we can come to that kind of alien contact moments,

20 (11m 43s):
A movement you make triggers, flashes all around you. These vortices of neon blue liquid light would just shoot up and mixed in, would be blowing blew embers.

19 (11m 56s):
How much more different can you get from our way of being,

18 (11m 59s):
If you want to hear about everything from underwater light shows to a lost city of octopuses, subscribe to unexplainable, new episodes, every Wednesday, wherever you get your podcasts

20 (12m 11s):
Exploring is better than sex. All the thrill and none of the baggage,

23 (12m 19s):
Hey everyone, I'm Rob stats. Guerrera one of the hosts of the SB nation NFL show with the NFL draft, less than a week away, you might be looking for a podcast to breakdown the effect it has on your team, your conference, or even the league as a whole. The SBNation NFL show is draft focused until the beginning of may. So you'll hear the athletics, Dane brew, glare breakdown, the biggest prospects from this class five time executive of the year, Scott Pioli on what it's like inside the draft room and former Raiders CEO, Amy Trask on the business side of the big day. Plus we'll be covering the 2022 NFL draft live and dropping the episode in our feed. The next day, subscribe to the SP nation NFL show for the big picture and deep dive knowledge of everything.

23 (12m 59s):
NFL draft new episodes out every day

21 (13m 3s):
Enough is enough. I haven't had it with these August. Everybody's strapped about the open the windows.

2 (13m 17s):
I'm not sure how Sam Jackson feels about the news this week, but I definitely saw a lot of people on social media who were incensed by this Florida judge. And then I saw lots of people who were like, bruh, people on planes are already mask off for most of the flight while they drink and eat. What is this even changing? We want it to answer that question. So we reached out to Dr. Kavita Patel.

22 (13m 38s):
Yeah. So it's a great question because I'm sure you have been on the exact same flights transit subways that I have where you're standing right next to somebody. Who's got a really nice mask, but it's on their chin.

2 (13m 50s):
Dr. Patel was a health policy director in the Obama administration.

22 (13m 54s):
Let's just kind of dive into the science of it, just to put this to rest. So masks do matter. And unfortunately we don't have these like perfect, you know, randomized trials kind of gold standard trials because that's a little bit unfeasible. So what we have done is looked at the impact of mass on planes when we've gone back and looked in studies to look at people who have been on planes and have actually been found to be positive testing or sick or both, and then look to see who they spread it to. There were 25 cases of these index cases, someone who's sick, but only two secondary cases. Then when we compared that to studies where flights had no masks, the infection probability or the secondary cases rose by 60%,

2 (14m 42s):
And this is on a flight, which we know has better than average, certainly ventilation. Yeah,

22 (14m 48s):
We hear a lot of people say including myself at times, I've to a patient's risk of transmission on planes are low because the circulation of air is very good. What does that mean? It means that airplanes have, when their engines are running, that's key engines are running. They exchange air 10 to 20 times per hour. So it's incredibly powerful at exchanging air. So that might give you like, you might be thinking, well, why did I ever have to wear a mask? Right. Truly the person that is the most vulnerable on a airplane, it's really that row and probably the row in front of it. When you look at actual studies of air circulation in planes, because of that rapid air exchange, people who are 10 rows behind you really don't affect you and vice versa.

22 (15m 37s):
So that's why we're talking about kind of how healthy, you know, it is to be on a plane compared to other things. But as you and I both know, getting onto that airplane, sitting on that airplane when the engines are not running, and then when you land and the engine stop, and you're waiting for that, you know, for the gangway to come to the plane, all of those are incredibly vulnerable moments of exposure,

2 (15m 58s):
Right? So if you're playing gets like delayed on the runway and they just keep you in there for three hours and you should really be sweating

22 (16m 3s):
If the engines are off and you know, when they're off, because you kind of hear the engine stuff that is definitely your most vulnerable period of time. If I am wearing a pretty well fitted kn 95 or a 95 mask with like a flexible nose that has a little bit of cushion, so I can kind of nicely fit it around my nose. That's pretty darn good protection. It's not perfect, but it probably gives you about 90 to 92% protection from any of those viral particles, getting to your nose and mouth.

2 (16m 32s):
I'm glad you brought that up. Cause that's the other thing I was seeing online a lot, which is just that, Hey, listen, if you're freaking out about this news, just wear your N 95 mask. One way masking will work. Is that true?

22 (16m 46s):
One way masking works under incredibly perfect conditions. And what do I mean by that? It's just very natural. If there's somebody next to you mask off and they're coughing, there is still a very significant how significant anywhere from 6% to about 15% that you could have exposure, will you get sick from it? No, it doesn't mean that 15% of people sitting next to someone sick gets sick. It just means that you could have exposure to those viral particles. And then hopefully if you're vaccinated and boosted and you have a good immune system, you don't get infected.

2 (17m 20s):
How does what we've discussed so far translate as you go down the line in terms of transportation from, from the flight to the airport, to the train station, to the train, to the subway, to the bus, to the ride share because a lot of people throughout the regulations this week,

22 (17m 37s):
Planes get a lot of attention because of the viral videos and everybody cheering. But the majority of the country isn't traveling on planes. In fact, the majority of country, particularly brown and black communities are traveling at a disproportionate ratio on exactly what you said, transit buses, trains, and then Uber Lyft ride shares of any kind. But we do know that when buses have windows open, that that can almost make kind of that same dynamic of the plane where it's exchanging air rapidly. So that's good if you're on a bus and sometimes you have the freedom to open it, do it. So planes, trains, subways buses can have decent circulation if it's not packed when it's packed again, that one way masking or having to make a tough decision.

22 (18m 19s):
If you're immunocompromised about not taking that particular route, which is really unfortunate. So again, remember mask or air circulation, ideally both but controlling one or the other can really help to decrease chances.

2 (18m 32s):
Let's talk more about the immunocompromised. We've been talking about them for, for two years. We were reminded of them many times this week, a lot of people were freaking out about how this would affect the immunocompromise. How much of America is immunocompromised?

22 (18m 46s):
We look at populations that I think get kind of quote, typically thought of as severely immunocompromised let's talk organ transplant, patients, patients that are undergoing active cancer therapies and also people on certain chronic medications, for example, like for lupus and diseases that are actually not. So you know, that are common, not so rare that gets those numbers. Sean get into the 10 to 12 million Americans range. And this is adults. When we add in children, we add in anywhere from one to 5 million children. So we're not talking about a small number. I think there's been this notion that, you know, the quote immunocompromised are far and few between when you really look at what I just mentioned, certain medications, chronic conditions, such as cancer treatment, and then also organ transplant in your past.

22 (19m 36s):
That's actually a lot of patients. And so this is not a small number of Americans, but I will add to that people like my parents, anybody over the age of 80, that you really do have a higher risk. Are they technically immunocompromised? No, but are they at a much higher risk of getting severe COVID even with vaccinations and to everything on board? Yes.

2 (19m 57s):
So what about all the immunocompromised and elderly people out there? I mean, should they be reconsidering flights or, or trains or how they get around and commute every day

22 (20m 9s):
They might, if you have the options and freedom to make choices and decisions because your individual risk is you do not want to take a chance of getting sick, then yes, you do need to reconsider. But for a lot of people, they have none of it. So that's where the high quality mask, if you can't do an N 95, it's hard to get one it's expensive. CVS has free ones provided by the government, by the way, or two surgical masks, which most people can seem to get access to.

2 (20m 35s):
Okay. So go a little harder on your PPE. What about the kids? What about the kids under five? Who still don't have vaccines?

22 (20m 45s):
If you've ever tried to get a two year old to wear a mask a 17 month old, where I'm asking, you know, it's impossible. So I'm not going to tell you to get your children under the age of five to wear a high quality fitting mask. That's great, but you are going to probably need to make decisions about children is if you're traveling and there is really no protection that they can take on a plane on a subway, on a train. And so what I would recommend, honestly, as a parent, I would make sure that you're boosted if you're eligible because your protection will be the best thing to protect them. You getting infected as the highest probability of them getting infected, obviously. So do what you can to protect yourself, put yourself in a good PPE high quality mask. And then with your child, like some, I've seen some toddlers that do have one of those face shields.

22 (21m 28s):
Like I have at work. I think that's a false sense of security. So I don't love that, but sometimes it helps parents feel like they're doing something. And then again, try to have your child kind of, you know, by the window, sometimes we put kids in the middle to make it easier to handle them, but on a plane, put them near the window on a train or bus or subway. I'm actually carrying spare masks. And I have no problem these days. I think becoming a parent makes you just do things to protect your child. I think everybody should say, look, I've got a kid. They can't get vaccinated. I beg of you to just wear this. You can take it off the minute you walk away from here. And I have done that. And it's worked. Sometimes

2 (22m 3s):
You do that.

22 (22m 4s):
Yeah. I mean, I maybe it's because I'm, it probably

2 (22m 6s):
Helps that you're a doctor. You have like an extra air of authority.

22 (22m 9s):
Oh, I don't tell them I'm a doctor. I think I do want to say that. Like, I I'd like to think there's some like decent human kindness in like the world. And when they see that it's like a mom with a kid, I think there is like a look, I don't care what you do when you leave. I just need this one thing to be protected. You know, my one, like my most precious asset is right in front of me and I need this person to be protected. They tend to do it.

2 (22m 31s):
I appreciate that. But I feel like if this week has taught us anything, is that like a lot of people were ready to be done with this. I mean, flight attendants who have been the enforcers of the rules were out there celebrating and crying and, and ripping off their Macs. I mean, are we reaching the point in this pandemic where no matter what appeal you make to the person next to you, you might get the response that like, listen for me, COVID is over.

22 (22m 58s):
Yeah, you, you might. And here's where I, I will totally personally even take a part of the responsibility and why this has gone so south. And just so awry of like what we needed in society. We have never, also given people a sense of when can these masks come off, you know? Cause if you recall, like in March of 20, 21, we're like, everything's better masks off if you're vaccinated. And then we were like, oh no, wait, everybody needs to wear masks when Delta happened. And I think what we've done is we, people have felt like we've constantly moved the finish line and people need a finish line. And I do think that that's been a problem it's hard to do, but I think it would have been much better to say, look, when the country is in this level of cases, we will take this away.

22 (23m 39s):
And for the transit, same thing, people wanted to know that if the rest of the country is not wearing masks, why are wearing them on planes? And so we need those answers.

2 (23m 48s):
After all this time, it's still comes down to, we could do a better job of communicating.

22 (23m 52s):
This is something we're all learning. You would, I had thought 10 years ago, Hey, we'll be talking about air circulation and carbon dioxide levels on planes. I wouldn't have believed it. So yeah, it's definitely a skill set that we need, but have to do better at, especially since this isn't over

2 (24m 16s):
Dr. Kavita Patel, she used to be a pandemic advisor in the Obama administration before her. You heard from Dylan, Scott and Ian Millhiser there with Vox as is Victoria Chamberlain. She produced the show today. We were edited by Matthew collect fact, checked by Laura Bullard and mixed and mastered by Paul mousey. The rest of our team here includes Halima. Shaw will read Hottie, Milwaukee and miles. Bryan. Our director of sound is a theme. The dream Shapiro, our supervising producer is Amina. Alsada Noel king hosts the show with me and foxes. VP of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson.

2 (24m 57s):
We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and no I'm Hassenfeld. And we are distributed on public radio stations across the country in partnership with w NYC I'm Sean Rama's firm. I have COVID-19 unfortunately I'll be in my closet for the foreseeable future. If anyone needs me get in touch with today, explained any time via email today explained@box.com is our address. We are on Twitter for the time being at today. Underscore explained today explained is part of the Vox media podcast network.