1 (2s):
You remember when you were young and there were the kids who had a pool and then there were the rest of us. Devin. Friedman was the rest of us.

2 (10s):
Yeah, I kind of wanted a pool always. I always thought it'd be like amazing to have a pool like that was the height of luxury to me.

1 (16s):
Didn't work out when he was a kid. But then he got older, he had his own kids.

2 (20s):
Basically we wanna be like the house that everyone comes to, especially for our kids. It's like if you can have like the house that people come to, it's like you're always looking to make your kids' life a little bit easier and better. And we felt like that could happen, but

1 (33s):
Something unexpected happened on Devon's path to luxury living.

2 (37s):
I learned that I'm an idiot. I learned that our economy and the way that we function within it is predicated on blind trust and that you're just sort of playing the game of probability.

1 (52s):
One man's quest to be cool and what we can all learn from it. Coming up on today explained.

Decoder with Nilay Patel (1m 4s):
Hi, I'm m Neela Patel, editor-in-Chief of the Verge and host of Decoder. We have a very special guest on this week's episode. former President Barack, Obama And. our conversation touches on some of the most pressing issues of today. How, do we prevent AI from being misused? What should we learn from our failure to regulate social media platforms at all? And can we balance the first Amendment with combating disinformation? This is one of my favorite episodes of Decoder and I have to say I think it's our show at its best. I sit down with high profile decision makers and business politics and tech. I ask tough questions about difficult choices. And, we talk about what it all means for the future. My Decoder interview with President Obama is available right now wherever you get your podcasts.

Imperfect Paradise (1m 44s):
In December, 2020, a Latino couple was falsely accused by a white mom influencer of attempting to kidnap her children. The Karen phenomenon where white women falsely accuse people of color of crimes, usually fixates on the accuser, the so-called Karen. But for this series we focus on the innocent couple. At the heart of this story, I just want the public to know what she did was wrong. Imperfect paradise people versus Karen available now, wherever you get your podcasts

6 (2m 17s):
Today is gonna be

0 (2m 18s):
Explained.

6 (2m 20s):
See you

2 (2m 22s):
Basically we have these friends, Bobby and Eric, who like always have like a new house that they bought renovated and are about to sell and it's always really, really nice and we're always like, oh, if we could just like, I wish we lived in Bobby and Eric's house. They have like really good taste and they don't have like baby barf on their couch. And they had installed several pools. It's several of these houses that they had bought and this was like, their secret was like there's this guy that we know who does this certain kind of pool that's like way less expensive than a regular in-ground pool, but it doesn't look less expensive. It's sort of like a hack.

1 (3m 0s):
Devin Friedman is a journalist, he's not a pool guy. The first thing you gotta do when you want a pool is find a pool guy.

2 (3m 7s):
So go with our guy. He's a little weird but it's worked out for us. So we visited him, we figured out how big we wanted it. We basically were like, let's copy Bobby and Eric Spool completely have it look exactly the same, give us the Bobby and Eric special. And he said yes.

1 (3m 26s):
Who is this guy?

2 (3m 27s):
Well I can't, I don't wanna say his real name because he actually probably didn't do anything wrong. We'll call him Gary Kitz.

1 (3m 33s):
Gary Kitz.

2 (3m 37s):
Gary Kitz is a man who like, seems like he was like frozen in amber in like 1968 and like just like popped out and is like surprised that like cell phones exist. He, he wears like short sleeved dress shirts and a robust mustache and it's ans he's like, he's like the kind of person who answers his phone. Yellow.

1 (4m 2s):
That's very descriptive. Yellow.

2 (4m 5s):
Yes, that's him.

1 (4m 8s):
Eddie builds pools. He builds really nice pools that cost less than you'd think they did.

2 (4m 13s):
Yes. So Gary is very busy. We're in late in the pandemic. Everyone's trying to renovate their house. Everyone's moved out to the country and is bringing their obnoxious city ways to the quiet countryside and being obnoxious And. we were among those people doing that. So we were mostly worried with Gary about like, when can you do this? Because we knew it was gonna be at least six months. And then the season's so short that if you don't get that construction started in the spring, you will not have your pool ready for that summer. And then it's just like, you might as well just install the next year. So we were like really like, you know, being really obnoxious and being like, when are you gonna get started?

2 (4m 55s):
When are you gonna get started? Like, you know, we gave him like a very small deposit when we signed the contract in the winter and then he was like, okay, well you're first in line.

1 (5m 6s):
And so did he start building your pool in springtime?

2 (5m 9s):
No, he like disappeared. Like he was building someone else's pool. My wife got really mad because she was like, you promised that we would be the first pool of the season you promised we were you know, emailing and emailing him, emailing him and calling him all the time and he wasn't returning our phone calls or emails. So we were like very anxious about that. And then suddenly he did return our emails.

1 (5m 33s):
Hello.

2 (5m 35s):
He emailed and he is like, okay you're next. Things are crazy. It's the pandemic. A lot of the bank branches are closed. The guys that are working for me are not able to go to the bank. So we're ready to get started. We'll be there in a week. Our materials just came in and you know, can you send us the deposit that we agreed on via Zelle and gave us, you know, some Zelle credentials for us to sort of do. So-called peer-to-peer payment to him.

1 (6m 5s):
Okay. And I'm sorry to pry, but what did he quote you for this pool? What's the deposit you agreed on?

2 (6m 12s):
The deposit was I think about 30 or $35,000, which is like a lot of money to us. It is not pocket change to,

1 (6m 21s):
To most people. I should, I should add

2 (6m 24s):
Yes, I don't like to think about how many hours that is of work. I don't like thinking about that.

1 (6m 31s):
So he asks for 30 ish K 35 K and I imagine you send it to him 'cause he's your pool contractor.

2 (6m 39s):
Well you know, it's not don don't know if you've used Zelle before. I have, yeah, you can't just send $30,000 in one fell swoop on Zelle. So he's like, okay, well you know the max is 5,000. So like, well it's the first day he was like, send 3,500 and then it was like 5,000, 5,000 and then we know we have a little more materials, 3,500 blah blah blah blah. Over the next I think 11 days, if I remember correctly, we end up transferring about $31,000, $31,500 to him. I think

1 (7m 13s):
As you're sending these Zelle payments, many, many Zelle payments numbering in you know, the 3,500 to $5,000 range at any point are you hesitating or are you just smashing the send button?

2 (7m 28s):
You know, I was worried that we did not have any documentation from him that he had received this money that he could be like, well I never got the money, you know, sorry don don't, I don't know what you're talking about. So we said, can you please send us a receipt for the money that you've received? And he said, yeah, for sure. You know, all on email. An hour or two later he said, you know, I'm at a job site, gimme an hour, I'm gonna, and I'll just pull over. I have my receipt book with me. I get a receipt on like, you know, the letterhead of his company and it's receipt for how much money we'd paid him and has his name signed at the bottom. And so we're like, okay, well at least he, at least we have a documentation now that we've paid him the money and

1 (8m 11s):
It looked legit. You got, you thought you were in good shape. Yeah.

2 (8m 14s):
Yes. It never really occurred to us that we were not in good shape.

1 (8m 18s):
And did he come over and start building your pool?

2 (8m 21s):
Well the day he said that he was going to be there, we got an email that morning that was like, I'm on your road, send the last payment. I'm there, you know, we'll be, I'll see you in a few minutes, hours pass. He's not there. We're call. We start calling his office. The woman who answers his phone is like really annoyed.

7 (8m 45s):
Okay Devin, we've heard from you before. We know you're calling a lot. Gary will get back to you as soon as he can.

2 (8m 53s):
We keep calling, we keep calling, we keep calling. Finally we get him yellow. My wife is talking to him and and she says, where are you? And he is like, what do you mean? She's like, you said you were on our road, you emailed us this morning and you said you were getting started and that you were on our road and it's been five hours since you said you were. Our road is not that long. And he just said, I haven't emailed you for a month. And my wife literally fell onto the floor in the kitchen and looked at me and she said, holy

0 (9m 32s):
Shit.

Eli Lilly and Company (9m 53s):
Fox Creative. This is advertiser content from Eli Lilly and company. There's a fair amount of stigma with Alzheimer's disease. Dr. Brandy Matthews is a neurologist in Alzheimer's disease expert at Lilly and she sees a chance for this to change. I'm hopeful that we're now entering an era in which people will actively seek a timely and accurate Alzheimer's disease diagnosis. To make this future real, we have to start unlearning some of the things we thought we knew about Alzheimer's disease. Like one untruth that I encounter is that everyone will inevitably develop Alzheimer's disease because it's part of normal aging memory and thinking do change with age much like eyesight and hearing. However, these changes are relatively subtle and restricted mostly to speed of thinking or processing information and naming of specific items when changes become observable to others or begin to interfere with typical activities as a red flag. Myth two, if I'm diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, there's not much I can do. Diagnosis that's timely in a patient's disease course may also have an impact on the progression of the disease. If the intervention happens early knowledge is power and acting early matters. If you're noticing memory and thinking issues piling up, go to more than normal aging.com to learn more.

NPR (11m 32s):
Support for today's show comes from NPR Love Them and their new podcast, body Electric. Body Electric is an interactive six-part series that investigates how our relationship with technology is impacting our health according to their research. Our bodies are changing to meet the demands of technology and the information age from nearsightedness and mass psychogenic illness to type two diabetes rates doubling in young people. So they're partnering with Columbia Medical School to find out why and to try and figure out what we can do about it. Sarah Frank who works on the business side or Vox, she listened to the new Body Electric program. Maybe some of y'all are like me and get sort of a full body shivers if you hear that Slack or work email noise after hours. This show is gonna explain things like that. And there's also an interactive element so us listeners can follow along and make some of the changes that they talk about on the show, which is really cool If you're feeling the pressure of our fast paced culture. Body Electric wants to help lighten your load both mentally and physically. You can listen to Body Electric now on TED Radio Hour from NPR wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (12m 40s):
I don know why I said all weird Yellow today. Explain is back with Writer Devin Friedman, all he ever really wanted was a pool, but on the way to getting one he zealed somewhere between 30 and 35 K. To whom exactly last we heard. Not his contractor. His poor wife's fall into the floor and well

2 (13m 4s):
It's sort of like suddenly everything falls into focus. It's like, or to mix a metaphor like the scales fell from our eyes. And, we were like, you haven't emailed us, we've been emailing with you and sending you money. We must have been sending someone else this money. And. we talk to him And, we say, you know, here are these email addresses of the people that you gave us to Zelle money to. And he's like, I've never heard of those email addresses before. And I'm like, can you look in your email? Like do you see it? And he is like, don don't see any messages from you. Oh wait, here's one.

2 (13m 46s):
But you know, what had happened is that someone had hacked into Gary's email, he has an AOL account so you can tell sort of what generation he's from, how tech savvy he is. Someone had hacked into his email account and was sending and receiving emails from his account as him. But having us pay some people who Gary did not know And, we did not know. And Gary was never aware, you know, they were, they would send these messages and delete them quickly enough that Gary would never realize that they were in his email. You know, there are a bunch of ways you can hack into someone's email as we all know.

2 (14m 28s):
You know, it's usually just low hanging fruit sort of thing. Like who are the least savvy people we can get to give us their credentials And then we, and then we're into their email and then we can start emailing all their clients and saying, Hey, can you zal us a bunch of money?

1 (14m 42s):
Okay, so you just took a shot at Gary Kru again and I think it's only fair that we take a shot at you. What were the email addresses to which you and your wife were sending thousands upon thousands of dollars?

2 (14m 57s):
Original Breezy, original Breezy seventy2@gmail.com, which you know, I mean it's like, it's not even, it's obviously like the 17th breezy that had that wanted to be called Breezy on Gmail. They had to come up as like, okay, Breezy's not available. Breezy one isn't available. Okay. Original Breezy. That's, that's what I'm going with. Oh, sunshine Yasmin was the other one.

1 (15m 24s):
Sunshine Yasmin and original Breezy. Yeah. You sent a small fortune a salary, a a year's salary for a lot of Americans to

2 (15m 33s):
Yes. If you consider like after taxes Yes.

1 (15m 35s):
Yeah. To original Breezy and Sunshine Yassin. At no point did you and your wife take a look at each other and be like, who are these people?

2 (15m 43s):
No.

1 (15m 46s):
What do you think happened there?

2 (15m 47s):
Well I will say that contractors in general are sketchy fair. One of 'em used to be president, he was a little sketchy and they're, they're well known for skirting various rules and you often want them to be kind of sketchy people who skirt the rules 'cause it benefits you. Oh I don't, you know, you don't really need to get a permit to do this work. We can just like go around the permitting system or I can charge you less if you make this checkout to my wife instead of me or my pay my workers or whatever. So I think there was some assumption that these were people who worked for this guy and this was his way of not having to pay income tax on the money that we were paying him, that he was gonna then have to pay to his workers.

1 (16m 34s):
So when Gary Kitz finds out that you got scammed for the entire sum of money that you were meant to give him 35 k or so, what does he say?

2 (16m 43s):
I wouldn't call him an emotional man. He was just like, okay. Alright, talk soon. Okay,

1 (16m 51s):
So at this point we're in July peak summer, you've got no pool, you've got an indifferent Gary, someone somewhere is enjoying a summer breeze with all of your money. What do you do?

0 (17m 5s):
Makes me feel

2 (17m 7s):
A summer breezy. Sorry.

1 (17m 10s):
My

2 (17m 10s):
Bad. So we get on the phone and get some client services, people on the phone for, for our bank. We call up every law enforcement official we can think of. You know, we decide like, let's not be, well we already are victims, but let's not be total victims. Let's get, let's go after it.

1 (17m 25s):
Let's get our money back.

2 (17m 27s):
Exactly. The FBI still has not returned my call. Not, not, not kidding. How

1 (17m 37s):
Long ago was that? Like over a year?

2 (17m 40s):
It's been two years.

1 (17m 41s):
Oh no, that's sad.

2 (17m 42s):
Yes. So local law enforcement was like the most responsive, but it's like a very small town in western Massachusetts. I think there's three policemen, there might be two. And so like, let's just say they don't have like an internet crimes division. You know, the guy came and sat at our kitchen table and pulled out a notebook and wrote, his first question is, who is Zelle? I saw him wrote that on the thing. So I'm like, okay, this guy might not be the guy who cracks the case. We went to the state police and the state police said, oh well it has to be the local police and then if they call for help then we'll get involved. And then I sort of put on my journalist hat, 'cause you know, I've, I've been a journalist for a long time and I was like, okay, I know that people respond to calls from the press, so I'm just gonna say I'm calling from the press.

2 (18m 32s):
Nice. Obviously I did write about it so I wasn't lying and I got more response then Chase, I thought that Chase would be like, I would get a like, you know, they would just like connect my phone call to like the CEO and everyone would, you know, we would all be in on it and we're all gonna chase down these people. They're

1 (18m 49s):
Called Chase after

2 (18m 50s):
All. Exactly. But it was, it was more like I called to like report a lost credit card. It was like, they're like, okay, well we'll have someone from the team get in touch with you. But when I called their media relations department, they escalated it. And as a journalist, I talked to a few people who worked in law enforcement. One, one guy was the head of cyber crimes for the US Attorney's Office in the Eastern District of New York. And he was basically like, unless you are talking about 10 x the money that you lost or more, no one is gonna look into this. Huh? The volume of fraud that's happening is so great that there just isn't the manpower to even investigate $30,000 is basically like walking into the FBI and saying I lost $10.

2 (19m 39s):
Like they do not give a shit unless you can tie it to some organization that's doing it at a bigger level or you got lost a million dollars. It's just a manpower problem.

1 (19m 51s):
Devin, I, I know we've been laughing a lot because you seem to have a good sense of humor about what went down, but I have a serious question for you. Who is Zelle?

10 (20m 0s):
Zelle is a fast, safe, and easy way to send and receive money with friends, family, and others you trust no matter where they bank.

2 (20m 7s):
So Zelle is a what is known as a peer-to-peer payment app. And it is owned by a consortium of the largest banks in America, bank of America, chase, Wells Fargo, PNCI think, you know, you know, I think seven of them, if I'm, if I'm not mistaken, when

11 (20m 25s):
Money goes into your account directly, you can live delightfully

10 (20m 29s):
Zelle.

11 (20m 30s):
Look for it in your banking app.

1 (20m 32s):
And where did this company come from?

2 (20m 33s):
You know, basically it was another case of the internet causing a, a race to the bottom peer-to-peer payment apps launched in, in the United States. You know, PayPal, Venmo, cash app, stuff like that.

12 (20m 47s):
It's time we let our happy hours end happy. Now we have Venmo, the app that makes paying your friends back more glorious than ever.

2 (20m 56s):
And they were seen as a threat to the big banks because these big banks couldn't do the same thing. You couldn't pay your friend $10 in instantly the way you could with Venmo. So they felt like they had to come up with their own peer-to-peer payment app in order not to get their lunch eaten by, you know, FinTech. And so they launched Zelle and it became incredibly popular. So I figured like Venmo is the thing that my friends use. So I was like, Venmo must be the biggest No, Zelle is like a way, way, way, way, way bigger than than Venmo or, or, or Cash app. I imagine at some point in this story you call Zelle and say I need my $31,000 back.

2 (21m 37s):
I mean I just challenge anybody to find a phone number for Zelle. No, it is not easy. But I went through their press department and ended up speaking to someone at Zelle who was really nice but was basically like, we have no one available to talk to you about this, but there's a tremendous amount of fraud on these networks. And to be fair to the big banks, you don't, they don't make any money really from sending cash to each, you know, like for letting me send cash to you is not like a revenue producing transaction for them. There's no commission. Not really, no. I mean they just don't want other financial technology companies to take their clients away from 'em.

2 (22m 21s):
So that's why they have to do it. So you know, if they had to start paying back everyone like me who lost money, then it wouldn't really be free anymore. Hmm. Probably. However, we're used to consumer protections when we make financial transactions and I think it's a real shock to people to find out that there are none for Zelle.

13 (22m 41s):
The banks market, Zelle as quote, fast, safe, and an easy way to spend money, end quote. But Zelle is not safe when someone is defrauded. You claim that's the customer's problem.

2 (22m 56s):
There's some legislators, unsurprisingly, Elizabeth Warren who you know is the chief antagonist of the banking industry in America, is trying to push legislation to get these transactions insured and protect customers. We

13 (23m 13s):
Could fix that problem right now in this committee. If you would all be willing to say, or any of you would be willing to say, if a customer is defrauded on Zelle and they come and complain to the bank, then the bank will make it good. Who is willing to make that commitment to your customers?

2 (23m 35s):
The banking industry has like some lobbying organization called like the Bank Institute of America or the Money Foundation or whatever, and they do their own research. That's like most, 99.9% of these transactions are totally safe. But like when you think about how much money is being moved through the system, like 0.1% of billions and billions and billions of transactions that are not safe.

1 (23m 57s):
And do we know how many of those result in fraud?

2 (23m 59s):
The banks are under no obligation to disclose that. So I asked a lot of banks a lot of times for numbers about the how much fraud goes on on Zelle and they definitely were not interested in telling me. Hmm.

1 (24m 14s):
So Zelle is a dead end. They processed 2.3 billion payments last year, but apparently if any of those go south, they're not gonna help you.

2 (24m 25s):
No.

1 (24m 26s):
How about your bank? No. Did they feel any sympathy for you?

2 (24m 30s):
I think that they looked for it. Eventually we got an email from them saying we found, you know, $235 in one of these accounts. 2 35? Yeah. $235. We've contacted the other institution. We'll transfer it back into your account. That's our, we wash our hands of this.

1 (24m 53s):
So did you buy like a kitty pool?

2 (24m 57s):
I think we bought bottles of tequila with that money drown our sorrows saved for another year. Sold some stock and bought a pool the next year.

1 (25m 10s):
Do you have a pool now? We have a pool. You're a pool guy.

2 (25m 12s):
We pay twice. We get once. That's our motto at my house.

1 (25m 16s):
I got a no. Who did you hire to build your pool?

2 (25m 21s):
Gary. Hello,

1 (25m 23s):
Gary Kitz.

2 (25m 24s):
He's the only game in town. Berkshire's number one in ground pool man. Gary Kitz.

1 (25m 30s):
How did you pay him?

2 (25m 31s):
Check.

1 (25m 35s):
Devin. Friedman Pool guy. You can read about his journey at Business Insider. His story is called the Great Zelle Pool scam. We reached out to Zelle for comment on Devon's story and our episode. Here's what they said. Zelle is designed to help protect customers and stop scams before they happen. We have a strong set of technology controls and practices in place today and continually enhance those controls. Our Zelle user service agreement warns consumers to only use Zelle for sending money to family, friends and other people they know and trust. The user experience includes a series of alerts such as that the payment is irrevocable, but criminals are working every day to perpetrate scams using any payment method they can And.

1 (26m 26s):
we can't solve this threat alone. Protecting us consumers from criminals requires a wide range of solutions. Our show today was produced by Haddi Mawajdeh, edited by Amman Alade Fact, checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by David Herman. But wait, more people work here. Isha Artsy, Amanda Luelle and Miles Bryan Halima Shaw, John Aarons, Victoria Chamberlain, Patrick Boyd, Fiona Petros, Rob Byers, Isabelle Angel, Matthew Collette, Miranda Kennedy. And as if you could forget Noel. King. We didn't use any music by Breakmaster cylinder today. Today explained. It's distributed by WNYC. The show is a part of Vox, which is totally free.

1 (27m 9s):
Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners, join us at Vox dot com slash give. Thank you.