1 (5s):
When you broke up senior politics correspond in Vox is the president about to get impeached again? It sure looks like it. Has that ever happened for twice in one term? No, this would be an historic first for president Trump history maker, if nothing else, but there's also this question of the 25th amendment. What's up with that. So section four of the 25th amendment allows the vice-president and a majority of the president's cabinet to choose to take away the president's powers. If they conclude that he is unable to exercise the powers and duties of his office, and this has never been invoked in history.

1 (49s):
And obviously it hasn't been invoked under the Trump administration yet, but after Trump's actions last week with the storming of the Capitol, there was a new round of discussion on about it. And Democrats took the position that Pence and the cabinet should invoke the 25th amendment. Now, the problem is that they are not doing so several Trump cabinet secretaries have resigned rather than staid in office to go to the point where their 25th amendment vote could be needed. But the bigger picture is that Mike Pence does not seem to be on board with this, even after the chaos at the Capitol, put his personal safety at risk.

1 (1m 32s):
He, he doesn't want to go this far and his consent is necessary to invoke the 25th amendment. Okay. 25th amendment is a bit of a pipe dream. In the meantime, there is Impeachment and the Democrats are leading the charge. So they released one article of impeachment for incitement of insurrection, and it criticizes Trump for inflaming the crowd with false claims that the election was stolen and for not respecting our democracy and the peaceful transition of power, it, it focuses mostly on the Capitol storming, but it also references his attempts to interfere with state certifications of election results and the recent corrupt phone call Trump made to Georgia secretary of state, Brad Raffin Spurger asking him to find votes for him in Georgia.

1 (2m 29s):
So that's in there too. It's four pages long. It's a quick read. And the conclusion is that Trump should be removed from office and barred from holding future office.

0 (2m 44s):
I know it seems obvious to some what role the president played last week in the insurrection, but could we just spell it out? What evidence or justifications are Democrats giving for this charge of incitement of insurrection?

1 (3m 0s):
What they're focusing on is Trump's longer-term campaign to dispute the election results with various lies and conspiracy theories.

2 (3m 11s):
We had an election that was stolen from us. It was a landslide election, and everyone knows it.

1 (3m 18s):
And also his on the very day of the insurrection, the speech that Trump gave to his crowd, urging them to fight like hell insisting. He was still the true winner, telling them to go down to the Capitol, telling him falsely that he was going to go down to the Capitol with them.

2 (3m 37s):
We're going to walk down and I'll be there with you. We're going to walk down. We're going to walk down any one you want. But I think right here, we're going to walk down to the Capitol.

1 (3m 50s):
And so the Impeachment article goes on to say that thus incited by president Trump members of the crowd, he had addressed unlawfully, breached and vandalized the Capitol injured and killed law enforcement personnel, ministers members of Congress, the vice-president and congressional personnel, and engaged in other violent, deadly destructive and seditious acts.

2 (4m 14s):
And though

1 (4m 15s):
Republicans were willing to immediately move on and continue to validate the president's false claims about the election. This is something new and deeply dangerous in American politics. What happened last Wednesday? Yes, certainly in modern times, this, this really has not, there's nothing really that we can point to that. Similar, a mob storming the Capitol crying to prevent the certification and approval of the legitimate election results at the behest of the president of the United States. It's really stunning stuff were probably quite lucky that the bloodshed wasn't even worse.

2 (4m 60s):
The Capitol police discovered to pipe bombs in the area around the Capitol complex, more than 50 officers were hurt in those attacks on the Capitol, several of them hospitalized

1 (5m 11s):
There there's newer reporting and video analysis that a members of Congress were not to far from the mob. And ah, and it was a close run thing that their own security managed to spirit them away.

3 (5m 27s):
The Capitol police officer who's quick thinking may have saved lives in the Senate. Last Wednesday, officer Eugene Goodman outnumbered dozens to one was chased up the steps by an angry mob. You can see as he reaches the state

1 (5m 41s):
Talking minutes, we're talking luck at one point that a group of rioters turn the wrong way rather than keep going to the Senate chamber. So yeah, I, I do think that it's pretty clear that this was unprecedented and Democrats think we need to have a response to this too, to protect the rule of law, but Republicans are as is so often the case, you know,

4 (6m 9s):
So sure. I know the vote isn't until tomorrow, but are there any Republican's in the house of representatives who have supported this Impeachment measure,

1 (6m 18s):
There've been some Republicans who have been very critical of Trump. It's not yet entirely clear whether we're, how many of them will vote for Impeachment. There's been talk of as many as 10 out of the more than 200 house Republicans voting for Impeachment, which it doesn't have to sound like very much, but zero voted for it. The last time Trump was impeached. So it would be a bit of an improvement, but when it comes to vote counting, the real question is in the Senate because the house can impeach Trump with a simple majority. They don't need any Republican support.

4 (6m 58s):
So how are things looking in the Senate for a conviction, which we should remind people did not happen the last time? Well, first,

1 (7m 5s):
Well, it's not even clear when the Senate would hold a trial for Trump, if the house impeaches him. So the Impeachment will take place with seven days left in Trump's term. And then there's another complication, which is that the Georgia Senate special election results, one by Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff have not yet been certified. So Republicans still control the Senate. Mitch McConnell is still the majority leader. So he still has the upper hand in deciding what to do about this until George's results are certified probably later in January, which would make the Senate 50 50, and then Democrats also need vice-president Kamala Harris to be sworn in to give them a tie breaking vote and the official Senate majority.

1 (7m 58s):
So the upshot is that for the near term, it's still going to be Republican's in the Senate who are deciding how to deal with this.

4 (8m 6s):
Do we know how much support there is for conviction in the Senate?

1 (8m 11s):
I think under the current state of affairs, they would likely not have the votes to convict, but you know, this was a scary event that put a lot of senators in personal jeopardy and could have spurred some of them to rethink things. And I think the other important thing we need to discuss is that removing Trump from office at this point only would shave a couple of days office term. The main thing that's on politician's minds now is the other penalty allowed by the constitution for someone who is convicted of an Impeachment, which is to disqualify them from holding any office of honor trust or profit under the United States in the future.

1 (8m 57s):
So the main interpretation of this is that this would prevent Donald Trump from being president again. And I'm, if you think that Trump is a bad influence on the Republican party, that he's a somewhat unique threat to democracy, that he's a cancer on the party. As as many Republicans have said from time to time, then that would seem to be a good solution to just take Trump out of the equation for 2024, even some of the Senate Republicans who support him like Ted Cruz and Josh Holly, they're looking to run for president themselves and they surely won't want Trump competing with them in 2024.

1 (9m 41s):
And that is an interesting calculation for Republicans.

4 (9m 45s):
Where does the public stand on this public opinion, polling in the United States of America? Where, where does it stand after witnessing its Capitol building ransacked by a bunch of yahoos last week.

1 (10m 0s):
So large majorities in polls say they disapprove of what happened, dislike what happened, but support for actually removing Trump from office is surprisingly tepid. Narrow majorities are in supportive. It, it basically looks like the Impeachment polling last time, more or less, if there is a major change in Republican thinking on this matter of whether Trump should be convicted, it would have to happen at the elite level. And, and it would not be something that their voters are pushing on them. In fact, it would be somewhat in defiance of those voters wishes.

0 (10m 50s):
Here we are.

4 (10m 51s):
And the second week of 2021, we've had an insurrection, a riot people died, pipe bombs are planted, but still Republicans immediately voted to object to the certification of president elect Biden's win. And still Republican voters don't seem that interested in convicting the president or barring him from office and thus ditto from Republican leadership, at least so far. So if you're worried, nothing matters, you've got good reason, but here's a twist. Our next guest argues that Impeachment isn't enough to prevent the country slip and slide to authoritarianism. He says the real fix is Voter reform.

4 (11m 32s):
That's in a minute on Today Explained.

0 (11m 53s):
This is advertiser

5 (11m 54s):
Content who we are sleeping terribly right now neurobiologists are calling this trend of increased sleep disturbances COVID Somnia. So how do we fall and stay asleep to understand we have to go back to its building blocks. We have to look at something called the sleep architecture, your world. Explained brought to you by Bose sleep buds too. There are four phases of sleep we go through every night. The first two are lighter sleep. The next two stages are critical. That's where all the recovery and repair happens during stage three, our bodies do the hard work of recouping from the day we just had.

5 (12m 37s):
Then their stage four REM sleep REM sleep first takes place around 2:00 AM and is crucial for learning and memory. It's where our brain activity accelerates. This stage is so important that NASA is working to improve REM sleep for astronauts in space. If you're asleep by 11:00 PM, you'll build three full non-REM stages before entering REM sleep at 2:00 AM. What this means for you is not just less exhaustion high-quality sleep is tied to increased resiliency, lower anxiety, and even better heart health, great sleep starts with a cool room distance from your screens, quiet and really letting yourself relax.

5 (13m 18s):
Both sleep buds too. Can help. When you use both sleep buds to soothing sounds help you fall asleep and stay asleep. As noise masking tech keeps out sounds that could wake you all, helping you be the architect of a better night.

6 (13m 37s):
Rick hasn't. You specialize in election law at UC Irvine, but you also just wrote a piece for slate in which you argue that Impeachment isn't enough. How come well, the problem is that even with Trump gone from the white house, Trump and the threat of authoritarianism will continue. That's why it's important that even after Trump has left office, that he'd be disqualified from running again, that he not be able to put back together a coalition that is not willing to fight fairly in elections. That's why we need to have other efforts that will promote moderate Republicans and make both parties in the business of trying to increase their tents, make the parties as appealing to voters as possible, as opposed to trying to rely upon voter suppression as a means of staying in power.

6 (14m 27s):
And that's why we need fundamental voting reform because we can't trust that the kinds of things that happened this past election won't be repeated again, which fundamental voting reforms would you want to see. So, one thing that is important to do I think is to play what David Posen called constitutional anti hardball. The idea is that we need to use all of the available tools possible. The Democrats have to try to create fair conditions for our elections.

6 (15m 7s):
So it might take something a kind of hardball move, like killing the filibuster for voting reform so that it only takes a majority of senators rather than 60 centers to get something through a, the Senate.

4 (15m 22s):
We've talked about getting rid of the filibuster on the show before, but here you're talking about getting rid of one specific aspect of the filibuster or, or one part of the filibuster for a specific thing.

6 (15m 35s):
So you may remember that before the Republicans took back control, when, when Democrats still had control of the Senate, they eliminated the filibuster for judicial appointments aside from the Supreme court. And when the Republicans took over during the Trump era, they eliminated the filibuster for Supreme court appointments. I'm suggesting a further acception to the filibuster rules, which would apply to election and voting legislation. And

4 (16m 4s):
How many votes would it take to do that?

6 (16m 7s):
So it would take 51 votes under the so-called nuclear option, which is what's been used before. That is the president of the Senate. In this case, the vice-president was simply declare that it takes 51 votes to make this kind of change and a majority would vote for it. Now it's not going to be easy because there are Democrats like Joe mansion. Who've expressed concern about eliminating the filibuster. I think my proposal has a better chance of success because it wouldn't fully eliminate the filibuster. It would just eliminate the filibuster to make voting changes.

4 (16m 41s):
Okay. Your argument is that Impeachment is necessary as well as some conviction that ensures president Trump can't run again, but that's not enough to stop the United States from sliding towards authoritarianism for that we'd need serious voting reforms and for serious voting reforms, Democrats need to play hard ball, get rid of the filibuster for matters concerning Voter reform. If they did that along with vice-president elect Kamala Harris, what would you propose they accomplish which reforms?

6 (17m 11s):
Well at the top of my list are things like admitting Washington, DC and Puerto Rico is States assuming that the residents would want such a thing that would change the balance of power in the Senate.

4 (17m 23s):
I believe at least the residents of Washington DC are highly in favor of that.

6 (17m 27s):
Yes, I think that's true. I think it's the bigger question as to Puerto Rico, I would also restore parts of the voting rights act. The Supreme court killed off from the 2013 Shelby County versus holder case, as well as put it in expanded voting rights protections, such as requiring every state in congressional elections to offer some form of early voting, either in person or absentee voting or both. I would also favor changes that would be geared towards improving the position of moderates among Republicans. So that's that wing of the party. Would it be more successful in being able to hold power without the Trumpist wing, being able to primary those members?

6 (18m 15s):
One way to do that would be to have redistricting reform reform, which would be aimed at, for example, requiring the use of nonpartisan or bipartisan commissions to draw congressional district lines that's well within Congress's power to do

4 (18m 33s):
So. I'm guessing if a Republican legislator of a certain ideology would hear these reforms to voting that you're proposing he, or she might just say, wait, you're just, you're just trying to give Democrats more seats in the Senate.

6 (18m 49s):
Well, I think part of it is giving Democrats more seats and the Senate because the Senate is an institution that is very seriously weighted towards the Republicans. You have a small minority of members of the United States that are overrepresented in a system that gives the same representation to senators, to Wyoming, which has well under a million residents and California, which has, you know, 30 million residents. The idea is that the Senate is a non democratic, small D non democratic institution and things that could be done to make it more reflective of the one person.

6 (19m 35s):
One vote ideal that is applied everywhere in our government, aside from in the Senate in the electoral college would be a good thing, but this is not just about helping Democrats. It's also about helping moderate Republicans and creating a more responsible two party system where both parties fairly compete for votes, not by trying to shrink the electorate as the Trumpist Republicans have been trying to do, but instead to create a situation where both parties are trying to compete for more voters,

4 (20m 8s):
Just to continue playing devil's advocate here, wouldn't some argue that the Senate has always been an anti small D democratic institution, and that was the intent of its design.

6 (20m 23s):
Well, whether that was the intent or not, it doesn't serve our purposes today. And Today given the threat that we faced from authoritarian forces in the United States. I think recalibrating the power of the Senate is something that is part of the answer to the question of how we assure that we continue to be a democracy that reflects the will of the people.

4 (20m 44s):
Do you think there's a sort of a exigency to do this soon before people forget what happened last week before the trauma of this insurrection fades away?

6 (20m 57s):
I think there's an urgency, not only because of people's memory is fading about how serious the Capitol assault was, but also because Democrats we're going to be the driving force behind these changes may not be able to maintain their control on the Senate and the house and the presidency for the same times, this is the time to make change.

4 (21m 18s):
Would that change come at the expense of president elect Joe Biden's ambitions for his first hundred days if vice president elect Kamala Harris is saying, okay, real quick, though, let's fundamentally change the Senate and make other voting reforms might that stall, let's say the political will for really serious stimulus spending or really serious environmental spending or, you know, massive reform on healthcare. Something like that.

6 (21m 49s):
It's a very tough time to be advocating for change when there needs to be so much change elsewhere. And when the COVID health and economic crisis has to be dealt with in climate change has to be dealt with, but this is a very narrow window that's available. And I think democracy has to be near the top of the list.

4 (22m 8s):
Is anyone out there making the argument that, you know, up to this point, there's been this sort of forgive and forget tendency that's accompany the peaceful transfer of power in American politics. You know, president Obama didn't go after president Bush for what a lot of people around the world were calling war crimes in Iraq, since this peaceful transfer of power, it hasn't been all that peaceful this time around. Is it time to sort of ditch the forgive and forget tendency in American politics?

6 (22m 40s):
I think forgive and forget can be a very useful thing to do. And I don't know that it was necessarily wrong in earlier transitions of power. This one is qualitatively different. We've not had a president like Trump who's actively sought to overturn the results of the election through the courts through legislative action through trying to get election officials to manufacturer votes, too, trying to get his supporters to physically block and the acceptance of Joe Biden's votes in the Congress. And so this is not the time to forgive or forget. This is the time for concerted action to restore American democracy

4 (23m 24s):
Professor. Thank you so much. Thank you, Rick Hassen. He's the author of a book titled election meltdown, dirty tricks distrust, and the threat to American democracy. I'm Sean rom is from this is Today Explained the team includes mood Zaidi, Halima Shaw will read I'm going to I'll Saudi and no I'm Hassenfeld of themes. Shapiro is our engineer Golda. Arthur is our supervising producer facts checked by Cecilia Lee music by Breakmaster cylinder and sometimes nom. Liz Kelly Nelson is Vox is editorial director of podcasts. And Today Explained is part of the Vox media podcast network.

0 (24m 31s):
Hi,

7 (24m 32s):
I'm Avery. Truffleman the host of the cut, a new Podcast from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network. Every Wednesday, we work to explore important provocative ideas about the world around us so far, and we've discussed what it's like to move back into your parent's house and why that's actually an incredible and empowering thing to do. We've also talked about what it means to be a radical in society, expects you to be practical and pragmatic. We'd love for you to join us, subscribe to the cut and your favorite podcast app to get new episodes each week.