0 (0s):
It's a big week on the calendar. You got Super Bowl Sunday, Ash Wednesday, Mardi Gras and Carnival Valentine's Day. And if you're Chinese, you got an entirely new calendar. Happy Lunar New Year. Happy unless you live in Philadelphia where this year is shaping up to be stressful. The Philadelphia 76 ERs are trying to build a new arena right next to Philly's Chinatown. The Sixers state will revitalize the whole area, but Philly's Chinatown's worried that it'll be the end of Chinatown if only there were a way to know how this might all play out.

1 (37s):
Actually, Sean, there might be

0 (40s):
Today. Explains Philadelphia Bureau Chief Miles Bryan. What are you doing here?

1 (45s):
Well, I'm gonna tell you about Philly, of course, but I also wanna tell you about a similar situation that played out in Washington DC your backyard 30 years ago.

0 (53s):
That's right, you're right. A Tale of Two Chinatowns. Coming up on the show today,

2 (59s):
Unexplainable producer Byrd Pinkerton was probably drinking a Diet Coke when she heard this. The

3 (1m 6s):
World Health Organization has classified the artificial sweetener, aspartame as quote, possibly carcinogenic to humans.

2 (1m 12s):
And when she heard this,

3 (1m 14s):
But the agency's food safety group said the evidence wasn't convincing,

2 (1m 19s):
Turns out there's a lot of conflicting research about aspartame and cancer, and that's no accident. So this week on Unexplainable Bird tries to sort out the good sugar free science from the bad.

Unexplainable podcast (1m 30s):
Listen to unexplainable new episodes every Wednesday.

5 (1m 35s):
The history of HIV and AIDS is the history of people who were told to stay out of sight and who refused gay men, but also injection drug users, women, and yes children who contracted the virus.

The History Channel and WNYC Studios (1m 48s):
Join us for the series Blind Spot, the plague in the shadows. How much pain could have been avoided had we paid attention sooner? And what lessons could we have learned from History Channel and WNYC studios? Listen, wherever you get podcasts

0 (2m 14s):
Now, today explained Ramas firm here with our very own miles, Bryan miles. Where do we begin?

1 (2m 19s):
This story's about Chinatown. So let's start in Philly's Chinatown Philly. Chinatown is a small area, right? It's about seven blocks. It's right in the heart of Philly's downtown. And you know, I've been on the show a few times this past year to talk about how downtowns across America have struggled post covid. You know, streets feeling empty and sad, that sort of thing. But Philly's Chinatown is very much the opposite of that. It's, it's really alive. It's packed with restaurants and cafes and vegetable stands.

0 (2m 51s):
It sounds delicious in Chinatown. You see people all the time. You see people walking all the time.

1 (2m 56s):
That's Sue Lin. He co-owns a restaurant here. You know, there's

6 (2m 60s):
People doing grocery shopping, people doing deliveries, came out to eat. There's all kinds of activities.

0 (3m 7s):
Did you eat at his restaurant?

1 (3m 9s):
I, I actually did not. It was, it's a sushi restaurant and I was in the mood for soup that day. Anyway, I met up with Sue because he's worried about the future of his neighborhood. The Philadelphia 76 ERs, our NBA team wanna build a massive new basketball arena right next to Chinatown.

7 (3m 28s):
The proposal calls for putting the arena not too far from City Hall along the block of 10th to 11th Streets. The entire inspiration is similar to how Madison Square Garden in New York City is in the mix of everything.

1 (3m 41s):
It's not in Chinatown. The proposed site is technically in a different part of Philly's downtown, an area called Market East. But it's like, it's literally right across the street from where Chinatown begins.

6 (3m 51s):
Look at the first business in Chinatown. It's one story. Yeah. You know, the arena is going to tower over the first business of Chinatown, and

1 (4m 0s):
That's a just a little variety story,

6 (4m 3s):
Right? They said, you know, it's not in Chinatown, it's not in Chinatown, it's in our face.

0 (4m 8s):
Hold the phone here, miles. I know people are always averse to change, but building an arena next to Chinatown feels like it could be good for business. What is Suein worried about?

1 (4m 19s):
Yeah, fair question. First off, Sue and other activists fighting this arena, say Chinatown has seen this movie before.

0 (4m 28s):
Hmm.

8 (4m 29s):
Forget it, Jake. It's Chinatown Town.

6 (4m 34s):
Yeah. The first time I heard about the Sixers proposal, I was shocked. And then I was angry. It was just like, here we go again.

1 (4m 45s):
There is a long history of Philadelphia city officials and developers trying to put big projects in or right next to Chinatown, against the residents wishes. You know, there's a highway that cut Chinatown in two in the 1980s, huh? The city's convention center displaced hundreds of residents when it was built in the 1990s. Chinatown fought off a proposed baseball stadium in the early two thousands. And you know, a couple years later, they fought off a casino.

6 (5m 11s):
There is a history here, like every other few years, they wanna put something in Chinatown that other people don't want.

1 (5m 18s):
And, you know, there are specific concerns Sue and other activists have about a new arena right next to Chinatown. They're worried about traffic and parking.

9 (5m 26s):
The churches already suffer every time something happens. We, we can't get our people to church. Can you imagine when they're bringing 17,000 people into this arena and there's no parking?

1 (5m 38s):
You know, they're worried about construction, chaos and noise and road closures, deterring customers who

6 (5m 43s):
Want to eat in the neighborhood where pollution and noise are a constant issue.

1 (5m 48s):
And, and they're worried about gentrification.

10 (5m 50s):
Protestors say the arena would cause a number of problems, including rising rents for homes and businesses, which would drive people out

0 (5m 57s):
Of the neighborhood.

11 (5m 58s):
It will impact the business and also push people out of Chinatown.

1 (6m 5s):
And, you know, I think you gotta know a little bit of Sue's backstory to understand his passion here. So Sue's 39, and he immigrated from China when he was 16 with his family. He enrolled in a big Philly high school and immediately starts getting into fights

6 (6m 21s):
Like every other day. And then I realized, this is not what I expected. Why was that?

1 (6m 28s):
Like, why were you getting into so many fights?

6 (6m 31s):
Well, the kids in our school were just speaking on immigrant kids, Asian kids, you know,

0 (6m 36s):
I can relate Miles.

1 (6m 37s):
Yeah. Yeah. So Sue's got this really rough transition into life in America, and it almost breaks him

6 (6m 45s):
Every time we went to school, we went outside. We always had to be careful. We always had to watch our back. We could never just walk the street and feel like it's safe. We we're feeling okay to speak our language,

1 (6m 59s):
But this family settled here in Chinatown. And that ended up being kind of a saving grace.

6 (7m 5s):
Chinatown was always the community we could come back to and, you know, just exhale and be like, okay, we are home now. We are safe.

0 (7m 16s):
Okay. I, I totally get why he doesn't wanna see an arena just dropped down on what's been a safe harbor for him. But what are the people who want this arena next to Chinatown in Chinatown in Philly saying,

1 (7m 32s):
Yeah, you know, a lot of people are stoked about the arena and think it could be great for the city and Chinatown could thrive alongside it. I asked Dan Pearson to make the case. He, he grew up in Philly. He's the son of a pastor, and now he's an editorial writer at the Philadelphia Inquirer or newspaper.

13 (7m 50s):
Anytime that people are betting on Philadelphia, that's really exciting for me. And for that to be happening in the midst of this post pandemic landscape when a lot of people are kind of naysaying cities in Philadelphia is even more exciting for me.

1 (8m 4s):
So Dan gave me a tour or two. He took me to an empty lot in the market East part of downtown. Remember that's just a couple of blocks from Chinatown. And Dan took me to a lot known as the Disney Hole.

0 (8m 18s):
The Disney Hole.

1 (8m 19s):
The Disney Hole. So

13 (8m 20s):
This is what people call colloquially the Disney hole.

1 (8m 23s):
So in the the 1990s, Disney was opening these kind of mini indoor theme parks called Disney Quest. They opened one in Atlanta and Chicago.

12 (8m 32s):
Welcome to the Virtual Jungle Cruise here in the explore zone area of Disney Quest. It is a virtual adventureland.

0 (8m 40s):
Sounds fun.

1 (8m 41s):
Yeah. You know, Philly's mayor at the time saw this and was like, this is great. This is the perfect idea to revitalize this part of downtown.

13 (8m 49s):
But it never happened. And it's just been empty. There's actually a lot of empty blocks along this corridor. Unfortunately, they're all too small to put an arena.

1 (9m 1s):
And you know, I like the Disney Hole example, because first off, it's funny, and second off, it's indicative of the state of this whole stretch of downtown, you know, many years ago it was Philly's retail hub. Hmm. But it's been struggling for a long time and it it's gotten way worse since Covid.

0 (9m 17s):
And now the Sixers want to come in and revitalize a corner of it.

1 (9m 21s):
Yeah, exactly. They wanna replace most of a massive struggling mall called the Fashion District, just a block or so away from the Disney hole. They're

14 (9m 29s):
Gonna call it 76 Place, located on a portion of the current side of the fashion district, Philadelphia, and serve as an anchor to Center City. It would

0 (9m 39s):
That's cool. 76 place like 1776, right?

1 (9m 42s):
Yeah. Like the Philadelphia 76 ERs

15 (9m 45s):
Chance at 70 MB coast to coast for 70.

1 (9m 53s):
Now to be fair, the Sixers ultimate motivation here is definitely profit. You know, they think they can make more money with a shiny new downtown arena they own instead of the one on the fringes of the city. They currently rent from Comcast, but the team has pledged they won't take any public funding from the city and they'll spend more than a billion dollars building the thing. So lots of construction jobs and people like Dan see the arena as being a big shove towards a more walkable, vibrant post pandemic future. You know, the Sixers are gonna build apartments on top of the arena, and the whole thing will sit on top of a giant currently underused train station.

13 (10m 30s):
I view this arena proposal as something that could bring people downtown who haven't gone downtown. And I also view it as a potential way to revive this market East Corridor, which is just very, very far away from what it could be doing in terms of jobs and revenue for the city and its residents.

0 (10m 53s):
But did you ask him about Sue's concerns about, you know, the loss of heritage, the loss of, of, of a cultural landmark for him?

1 (11m 1s):
Yeah. You know, he and others argue that most fans coming to games will take public transportation and that those that drive can park in some of the mini lots that already exist in the area. So parking concerns are a bit overblown. Dan's mini buildings in Chinatown are owned by Chinese and Asian Americans, not big corporate developers. Essentially, he argues that the arena would be a rising tide that lifts all boats.

13 (11m 23s):
You know, I, I understand the approach of some people who say I'm always gonna be with what the community says, but it's, you know, not always possible because you have to govern and write for what the city's interests as a whole are.

1 (11m 36s):
But you know, there is one other thing that Sue brought up with me. It's something that he and other anti arena folks point to as the most concrete evidence that shows this whole thing is a bad idea.

6 (11m 48s):
We study other Chinatowns in North America. Every time a big project comes in, the community either disappears or shrinks. The closest example is DC Chinatown.

0 (12m 10s):
DC Chinatown. Yes. Definitely one of America's Chinatowns.

1 (12m 15s):
Yeah. DC's Chinatown, as we're gonna talk about in a couple of minutes, has seen better days and its story parallels in some really interesting ways. What's been happening in Philly. You know, 30 years ago downtown DC, which includes DC's Chinatown, was also struggling, and DC also turned to an arena as a way to reverse the decline. And they built it in Chinatown

0 (12m 40s):
Today, explained Heads home to the District of Columbia. When we return

Mint Mobile (12m 55s):
Support for the program. Today comes from Mint Mobile. It's almost Valentine's Day, in case you forgot a day full of love and romance and maybe the perfect day to get down on one knee and ask that fateful question, will you be the person who splits a phone plan with me? That's funny. Hey, there are worse reasons to get married. Oh dear. Oh dear. Are there Mint Mobile offers premium wireless plans that You can get at a great rate, whether you're buying for one or for a family, and throw those labels out the window. Because at Mint Mobile family plans start just two lines. You can choose from three months, six month, or 12 month plans. So you can say goodbye to getting billed monthly to get your wireless plan for just 15 bucks a month and get the plan shipped to your door for free. You can go to Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. That's Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. You can cut your wireless bill to $15 a month at Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. Additional taxes, fees and restrictions apply. Seen Mint Mobile for details.

Quince (14m 4s):
Support for today's show comes from Quince. Have you ever caught yourself spying some fabulously chic fashionista sporting a beautiful Mongolian cashmere sweater and thought I simply must have it. But how will I ever afford such a timeless, essential Quince has the answer to that very question. Quince creates timeless essentials like that Mongolian cashmere sweater, along with other must-haves, like 100% leather jackets and versatile flow knit active wear. I've never worn flow knit active wear, but maybe Vox iss Sarah Frank has. I had heard great things about their cashmere from my colleagues, so I immediately went there first and was really impressed with the huge selection of sweaters, cardigans, and pants for all under a hundred dollars. You can indulge in affordable luxury by going to quince.com/explain for free shipping on your order and 365 day returns. That is QUIN cce.com/explain to get free shipping and 365 day returns. quince.com/explained

Deleteme (15m 19s):
Support for today, explain comes from Delete me. A lot of your personal data is stored online and that leaves you vulnerable to identity theft phishing with a pH, annoying spam calls. Delete me can help get in the way of some of that. They find and remove personal information that you don't want online. They make sure it stays off. Sarah Frank is my colleague on the business side of things here at Vox. She tried delete me and here's how it went. It was really surprising how much of my personal identifiable information was on sites that were accessible to really anyone. Knowing that Delete Me is able to find this information and remove it on my behalf, makes me feel a lot safer. You can take control of your data and keep your private life private by signing up for Delete Me Now at a special discount for our listeners. You can get 20% off your Delete Me Plan when you go to join delete me.com/today and use promo code today at checkout. Again, 20% off. Join delete me.com/today and enter code today at checkout. Did you miss it? Join delete me.com/today. Code today.

0 (16m 31s):
Today explained is back through the magic of of audio storytelling. We have gone from Philadelphia to Washington DC right down the Northeast Corridor, still with Miles, Bryan miles. What did you find in Chinatown District of Columbia?

1 (16m 47s):
Yes. I went and I'm back and I'm here to tell you that DC's Chinatown is like Phillies and that it's right in the middle of downtown, but that's basically where the comparison ends.

19 (16m 59s):
You can see a lot of storefronts that are empty. There's a lack of foot traffic, high crime drug use.

1 (17m 6s):
That's Richard Wong. He's a senior director at the 1882 Foundation, a Chinese and Asian American advocacy group. He's been working in DC's Chinatown since the 1970s. An era when the streets were packed with dim some spots and banquet halls.

19 (17m 20s):
There's a lot of, you know, Chinese restaurants that's still here, but most of them have disappeared or have been bored out.

0 (17m 28s):
Yeah, yeah. DC's Chinatown famously not even the best place to get Chinese food in the DC area.

1 (17m 34s):
Yeah, man. Most of the restaurants in cafes and retail that are active in Chinatown are chain stores. You know, does Toros Taqueria or Hip City Veg, not Chinese at all, but there's this super weird detail that I noticed as soon as I got into the neighborhood, and I'm sure you remember, which is that every business has its name spelled out in Chinese characters under the English sign. Hey,

0 (17m 55s):
Are you making fun of our Chinatown? Go back to Philly.

1 (17m 57s):
Yeah. I mean, hey, the city of DC required it to, to make Chinatown feel like a, a Chinatown, but in reality it mostly just seems sad to me. You know, Richard said a lot of the translations are bad too, like, like the one for Capital One Cafe, which Oh no. Yeah. Which is operated by Capital One, the bank, but is not a bank, it's a cafe

19 (18m 18s):
And there isn't a translation. It's a Capital One. So because it's a cafe, it's a, it's the number one cafe, it's the number one bank and it's got good food. Well, it, it, it's not a bank that's not a description for bank. Incredible. But nobody cares.

0 (18m 34s):
I don't think it's that people don't care Miles. I think it's that people don't know.

1 (18m 38s):
Yeah, fair. But you know, it wasn't always like that when Richard moved here in 1978. It was a vibrant community. Well,

19 (18m 46s):
It's a neighborhood, you know, we all knew each other. We went from home to home. You know, we played in the streets, we played in the alleys. I, and, and, and I say this jokingly, but this is a fact. We did not have a day where we were hungry because our, our families, our relatives worked in restaurants, alright? After school, you know, we'd pop into a restaurant or we used to joke around and say, well, who, whose family should we rip off today for lunch, reach to the restaurant, sit down and you know, auntie and uncle would feed us. Alright. That was the community, you know,

1 (19m 20s):
And I could take it, you're not popping into hip city veg and getting a meal on the house.

19 (19m 23s):
Oh, no, no, no. Not at all. Matter of fact, I, I hardly frequent these places now,

0 (19m 29s):
You know, miles as a DC resident, I have heard tell of this bygone, Chinatown, if I had a DeLorean that could travel through time, I would, I would immediately go see DC's Chinatown in its prime.

1 (19m 42s):
I, I don't have a DeLorean, but I can tell you about it, please. So Richard's nostalgic about the late seventies, but DC's Chinatown had actually started losing Chinese residents to the suburbs years before Richard got there in the late sixties, after the riots that followed the killing of Martin Luther King Jr. A lot

20 (20m 2s):
Of people just started moving out of DC. People's parents were buying homes in Silver Spring, mostly

1 (20m 9s):
In the 1980s. In another parallel with Philly DC built a convention center in Chinatown, which displaced a lot of residents. My uncle

21 (20m 16s):
Had a carryout on ninth Street, right where the convention store was when he got kicked out. And by the domain he retired.

1 (20m 24s):
And by the early 1990s, DC's Chinatown was struggling largely for the same reasons as the rest of downtown DC was struggling. The crack epidemic and a wave of violence. In

22 (20m 35s):
1990 Washington DC saw more than 470 homicides earning at the label murder capital of the us.

0 (20m 44s):
But then eventually, if I'm not mistaken, they would build an arena where I would go see the Washington Capitals play hockey.

1 (20m 51s):
Right? So this is when the arena enters the stage. In the, in the early 1990s, DC officials reached a deal with Abe Pollen, the owner of the Washington Capitals hockey team and the NBA team, now known as the Wizards, to move their team from the burbs to an arena in Chinatown. Matt Blitz is a reporter at dcs who wrote a really thorough history of Chinatown and the arena. They were talking a lot about how the arena is gonna change everything. Right? And this is a quote from a, from a story in 1994, this shows we're making a comeback. We're telling everybody that the lights are still on here. And I think it'll change a lot to add towards to what our city is about.

0 (21m 27s):
And I'm getting deja vu here, miles, because this is of course the exact situation. Philly's in Right now. DC was in it whatever, 30 years ago. Did the locals in Chinatown oppose this arena the way locals in Philly are Right now? Yeah,

1 (21m 43s):
I mean, it's worth pointing out that in DC they proposed to build the arena right in Chinatown. Whereas in Philly it's just nearby. But there was reaction from the Chinese community in DC at the time. It was more mixed than what's been happening in Philly. I talked to some Chinese business owners in DC who said that they supported it in the nineties because the neighborhood was struggling and they thought It would be good for business. I know other community members were worried about change and gentrification, but the city didn't seem particularly tuned into the Chinese community. And the project went ahead full steam.

23 (22m 14s):
The arena threw open its gates. On December 2nd, 1997, the

24 (22m 19s):
Newly christened fun street lived up to its name as hundreds lined the block in front of the MCI center to

0 (22m 25s):
Watch Fun Street. Is that where they kept the Disney hole?

1 (22m 29s):
The Disney hole never made it as far south as DC, for better or for worse, sad. But what was definitely not fun was for some Chinese businesses who were forced out. When the city of Washington DC used eminent domain to see some land around the arena,

23 (22m 46s):
The arena affectionately nicknamed the phone booth transformed its surroundings almost overnight.

25 (22m 53s):
All of a sudden it was green light go for opening restaurants and night spots. And it radiated out across that part of DC instantly.

1 (23m 2s):
Like you heard in that quote, you know, when the MCI Arena opened in 1997, it kicked off a lot of commercial growth in the area. Violence fell, you know, more people came in to see games and that made the neighborhood more attractive to new groups. The Chinese population fell in 1990, about two thirds of the residents in the Chinatown area were Asian, according to the census. But 20 years later, less than a third were. Hmm. But, you know, Richard says this story's more complicated than that stat would suggest.

19 (23m 31s):
There was a lot of developers that came in and, and offer, you know, Chinese owners, you know, a a large sum of money, you know, for the properties. And you can't fault them for not taking those offers. You know, I don't fault them from taking those offers. So people talk about gentrification, the enforcement of Chinese out of the areas, but this was also an opportunity for second and third generation Chinese to accumulate wealth.

0 (24m 2s):
Okay, so people got paid.

1 (24m 4s):
Yeah, exactly. And, and this is what I think is so interesting about the story, is that it's gentrification, but it's gentrification that heavily benefited Chinese people. You know, they made good on their investments and, and they moved out to the suburbs. Now most of the remaining Chinese people living in DC's, Chinatown living in an affordable housing development for the elderly called the Wall Luck House. And those residents now have to take a bus into the suburbs just to go to a Chinese grocery store.

19 (24m 31s):
There's, you know, Asian communities in Maryland and the Virginia that has literally replaced Chinatown. You know, they, they got the large grocery stores, you know, restaurants and so forth. But I think if you look at community wise and, and trying to be more inclusive, you can't forget history.

1 (24m 52s):
And you know, there's one other lesson from the saga of DC's Chinatown and it's sports teams, which is sports teams move to the suburbs too.

0 (25m 1s):
Ugh. Don't remind me.

1 (25m 2s):
Since DC's Chinatown Arena opened, it's hosted the Washington Wizards and the capitals, the NHL team, but apparently not for much longer. The team's owner is moving them out of the city to the suburbs in 2028. What

26 (25m 16s):
Do you say to DC residents who say they feel like they're being abandoned?

27 (25m 21s):
I understand. And the future is going to be fantastic, and we're three and a half miles away,

0 (25m 30s):
Which of course is another strike in the column for this 76 ERs arena in Philly, right next to its Chinatown. Are people paying attention to what might happen in DC and saying, here's another reason to not build in Philly?

1 (25m 44s):
Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. But you know, Philly and DC are not the same. You know, something else I heard from nearly everyone I talked to is that the fate of DC's Chinatown has also been driven by the fact that it's no longer a destination for new Chinese immigrants. You know, the people most likely to work at the kitchen jobs or open a restaurant themselves. And the opposite is true for Philly. It's become a magnet for new Chinese immigrants. So I think Philly may be able to have it all, a new arena and a revitalized market east and a thriving Chinatown. But it is worth pointing out that the kind of rich tapestry of urban life that the Philly arena's supporters are hoping it can cultivate already exists just a couple blocks away in Philly's Chinatown.

1 (26m 30s):
And one thing I think the DC example does show is that that is a really fragile thing, really easily lost for Sue Lynn from Philly, who we started the episode with, that makes it just not worth the risk.

6 (26m 43s):
I want Chinatown, you know, for, for Chinese Americans. You know, Chinatowns in America came out of racism and, and resistance to racism. You know, the society did not, they wanted our labor. They did not want us to stay, they did not want us to have off offsprings. We stayed, we fought, we did business within our community. We helped each other, we persisted. You know, my kids are are born here. So I want Chinatown to be here for them and in Chinatown to be here for my mom and, and her generation. You know, she speaks limited English and Chinatown is her comfort.

6 (27m 24s):
China is her community.

0 (27m 27s):
Well, I hope for Lyn's sake and for his mom's sake, that that if this 76 town or whatever it's called goes through in Philadelphia, that it can succeed where DC kind of failed and not displaced. Its Chinatown.

1 (27m 42s):
Yeah. Yeah. We'll see the Philly City Council is supposed to vote on whether the arena can move forward sometime later this year.

0 (27m 52s):
Well, in the meantime, I guess go Sixers 'cause the wizards are hopeless.

1 (27m 56s):
Yeah, I think if there's one thing we can all agree on is that the wizards suck and the Sixers are great. Go Sixers.

0 (28m 21s):
Our show today was edited by Matthew Collette. Fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd. It was reported and produced by Miles Bryan. Philadelphia Bureau chief today explained

16 (28m 33s):
Philadelphia.