0 (1s):
I remembered the line from the Hindu scripture, the Bava Gita. Now I am become death the destroyer of worlds. I suppose we all thought that one way or another,

1 (16s):
J Robert Oppenheimer, father of Peter, Tony and the atomic bomb had become death. But before that, he was trained as a theoretical physicist and he would've been familiar with something called the three body problem. It's the question of how three masses attracted by gravity move in relation to each other. Injecting a third entity into any two party situation changes the dynamic like third wheel on a date. There used to be two nuclear armed superpowers. The u s and the u Ss s r later Russia. Now China has entered the chat and a decades long strategy of disarm and deter is being reworked to accommodate a third party ahead on today.

1 (58s):
Explained

3 (59s):
The 14th season of The Real Housewives of New York, just premiered with an entirely new cast. And yet the show is just as addictive as it's always been. The

4 (1m 9s):
Thing about Housewives is it's a little bit like Saturday Night Live. As much as people kind of come in and go out of it, the franchise is stronger than any of the players.

3 (1m 22s):
We break down the lasting influence of the Real Housewives and we rank our favorites this week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast

5 (1m 34s):
On criminal, we bring you true crime stories told by people who know them best.

6 (1m 41s):
We didn't believe in setting fires 'cause that was too dangerous. We were, you know, a kind, a gentler kind of crooks, so to speak.

5 (1m 48s):
So the best plan you had was that you'd LaSow it. Yes.

7 (1m 52s):
Never imagined I'd use it for a camel.

5 (1m 56s):
I'm Phoebe judge, and this is criminal Did. you have to say what was in the box.

2 (2m 2s):
Phoebe We told lies

5 (2m 4s):
Listen to criminal every week, wherever you get your podcasts,

1 (2m 22s):
It is today explained. I'm Noel King. Matt Corda is a senior research fellow for the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists. Or in Matt's words, he counts nukes. And lately he's been counting China's nukes.

8 (2m 36s):
So For decades. China maintained this relatively small nuclear arsenal of only a couple hundred warheads. And we can contrast that to the US and Russia's arsenal of several thousand. But China having just a few hundred nuclear warheads, seem to satisfy them because in their estimation, 200 warheads will deter an adversary just as effectively as 2000. And so spending fewer resources on its nuclear arsenal allowed China to focus on things like growing its economy, growing its conventional military posture. But you know, today it's becoming clear that China is, is no longer satisfied with just a small number of warheads. And we're seeing that China's is pretty significantly growing its nuclear arsenal.

8 (3m 21s):
And so the Pentagon in its most recent report to Congress projected that China could potentially have as many as 700 Morehead by 2027 and as many as 1000 by 2030. And it's still, you know, a little unclear as to whether or not those estimates are gonna come true. But the growth itself can't really be questioned anymore.

1 (3m 39s):
Is China public about this? Is China letting us know, letting the world know what it's doing?

8 (3m 46s):
Absolutely not. So, you know, just like many nuclear armed countries, China does not like to talk publicly about its nuclear arsenal. And so what we have to do in order to get information about these countries is that we use what are called open sources, right? These are sources that involve things like unofficial testimonies. We look at programmatic documents, budgetary documents. We watch military parade videos. And most importantly we use commercial satellite imagery. you know, in, in July, 2021, I was one of several researchers across a variety of teams who discovered and disclosed the existence of these large missile silo fields,

9 (4m 28s):
New satellite images showing that China is apparently building up its nuclear capabilities. Researchers say that it's possible more than 100 missile missile silos are being built in a new base in China's Western deserts. This is the second missile base found this month alone.

8 (4m 44s):
And so, you know, we're, we're really able to see how these fields are expanding in, in basically in real time. 'cause you can watch the construction happen from space, which is pretty incredible.

1 (4m 56s):
Do we know why China is expanding its capability?

8 (4m 59s):
I guess I would say that the decision to increase the number of nuclear weapons in the Chinese arsenal is probably not caused by a single issue, but probably by a, a combination of factors, right? So, you know, one of these could be that China is trying to posture itself against the United States', improving military arsenal.

10 (5m 19s):
We must modernize and rebuild our nuclear arsenal, hopefully never having to use it, but making it so strong and so powerful that it will deter any acts of aggression.

8 (5m 34s):
And they're looking at their own posture and saying, you know what, this, this isn't sufficient enough anymore to be able to deal with these threats. And another important one that I think is useful to think about is that there could be a potential prestige factor here, right? Big nuclear powers like the US and Russia have really big nuclear arsenals and they have, you know, hundreds of silos. And so perhaps China wants to demonstrate that it is a serious nuclear player here. And I, don don don't think it's necessarily a coincidence that the number of missile silos that China is building pretty much is, is roughly equivalent to what the US has and what Russia has as well.

1 (6m 12s):
From, I guess it would've been the early eighties, there's been a push toward nuclear disarmament in the United States. you know, I'm thinking of the Rigan brothers, I'm thinking of Martin Sheen. There has been hope over the decades that the world would move toward a less nuclear armed situation. What has happened to the idea of non-proliferation?

8 (6m 37s):
Yeah, so you know, what we're seeing now is that these trends that were taking place after the Cold War, these very encouraging trends in which we saw significant deep cuts to global nuclear arsenals, those trends are essentially all being reversed. Now we're seeing that what happens when countries engage in great power competition is that you get this destabilizing action, reaction, security dynamic where one country does something to increase its own security and then another country decides that it needs to sort of circumvent that. And by doing so, build something that the first country perceives as threatening. And you know, one great example of this is in March, 2018, president Putin unveiled this, this big suite of kind of developmental and exotic nuclear delivery systems.

8 (7m 26s):
Everyone was calling them exotic at the time. And notably, five out of those six new systems were specifically designed to evade other countries, specifically the United States as missile defenses. And Putin mentioned that many times during his speech.

11 (7m 42s):
Then in reference to the United States pulling outta the anti ballistic missile treaty, Putin added ominously, they kept ignoring us. So listen to us now,

8 (7m 52s):
At the time the United States was, was really undergoing this, this quite dramatic development of its missile defenses. And so you can sort of see this thread here where countries do something to make themselves less vulnerable, and then other countries have to kind of work their way around that. In recent years, we have also seen the decline and just sort of the, the general disinterest in arms control writ large, right? The, the last bilateral strategic arms control treaty new start is effectively now dead in the water, right? And multilateral efforts to engage in good faith arms reductions appear to have just sort of completely stagnated. And, you know, I think there's some really important things that we have to think about when it comes to arms control.

8 (8m 36s):
The first is that we are really suffering in the United States from an imminent decline in arms control expertise and interest when it comes to the, particularly the legislative branch, right? So arms control for many, many decades was something that was of immense interest in the US Congress, right? You would have congress people taking a very, very active place when, when it came to arms control negotiations, they would potentially in some cases go, you know, travel to Russia to sit in on negotiations. It

12 (9m 9s):
May have come as some surprise to our host when we told him that it was our intention when we arrived in Moscow to press the Soviet leadership to on arms control, particularly the Euro missiles to do business with Ronald Reagan, right?

8 (9m 25s):
This kind of interest in arms control is effectively gone. Another problem that we're seeing is that Congress is just as, as we all know, it's increasingly divided, but it's also increasingly just not particularly interested in exercising its own role with regards to foreign policy. There's just kind of this very knee jerk reaction to saying, oh, you wanna do a treaty with China? Well, China, China are the bad guys, right? They're not being transparent. We can't do a treaty with them.

13 (9m 49s):
They're not gonna stop stealing technology. That's a, that's a non-starter. They, you know, they're, they're not going to open up like the WT O requires. I mean, just if you're doing just trade, they're not gonna agree to that stuff. So how can you get a deal done? But,

8 (10m 2s):
You know, during the Cold War We, were dealing with very similar types of adversaries and everyone recognized that making nuclear arms control deals with those countries, right? Talking to them was incredibly important. And, you know, it would help if also Russia and China wanted to talk to us too, right? But what, what we really do wanna see is these countries engaging with each other a lot more openly. And unfortunately that's, I I feel like we're going very much in the opposite direction. This dynamic has really significant implications for that security dilemma that I just mentioned, right? So instead of dealing within action reaction dynamic between two states, we now have to worry about three and really we have to worry about nine, right?

8 (10m 49s):
So we have these three like big nuclear powers, but there are several other nuclear armed countries that all have their own interests and their own agency when it comes to nuclear weapons. And very importantly, each of them comes with their own border conflicts. They each come with their own potentially irrational leaders with their fingers on the nuclear button. You have different technologies, different electoral systems, different levels of transparency. And this is, you know, this is the nuclear world that we live in now.

1 (11m 18s):
That was Matt Corda. He counts nuclear weapons at the nuclear information project coming up Strategery in a trilar nuclear world.

14 (11m 45s):
This is one of those things that comes along very rarely, it's, it's gonna just completely revolutionize the world.

15 (11m 51s):
Over the last decade, Tesla has reset the future of cars.

14 (11m 55s):
We started off with Tesla Roadster and here we are today. Damn.

15 (12m 2s):
As Tesla became synonymous with innovation, it also became synonymous with its leader, a man who promises worlds but may now be struggling to deliver.

14 (12m 10s):
Anyone here used the full self-driving beta wait,

16 (12m 14s):
Tesla is marketing and trying to sell you a product that doesn't exist.

17 (12m 18s):
This brand is really caught up in an individual.

5 (12m 20s):
The rich liberals are like, what the fuck am I giving this guy

18 (12m 23s):
Money for? At some point it became very clear that he was maybe not the best person to lead Tesla.

15 (12m 32s):
The Tesla shockwave is out now. Follow land of the giants wherever you listen. New episodes out every Wednesday.

5 (12m 43s):
Can you describe what Heman looks like?

19 (12m 48s):
Okay, Heman muscle biking ish. White guy,

5 (12m 54s):
Wiley Easton's son loved playing with his he-man toys. As a little kid in the eighties,

19 (12m 59s):
I think I said something like, oh, you could, you could be a superhero too. And he said, no, I can't be a superhero because I'm not white.

5 (13m 10s):
And that's when Wiley Easton decided to make a black superhero toy for her son and other kids like him.

20 (13m 18s):
I just remember my mom running, rushing to me, showing me a little article about a figure that looked like he man, but he was black.

5 (13m 27s):
Hear the story of Sunman and his fans on the latest episode of This Is Love. Listen wherever you get your podcasts,

21 (13m 43s):
Dr. Oppenheimer, from all that you have said, it seems that when you contemplate the future, it is more with hope than with pessimism or is that an oversimplification? That's

22 (13m 52s):
Yes. I've tried to talk about the hopeful things. The unhopeful ones jump to everyone's mind. Will the Chinese change their views of human destiny and of the relations between them and us before or after they have the power to make major nuclear war? It's anybody's guess.

1 (14m 12s):
It's today explained. We're back with Dr. Andrew Krepinevich. He's a fellow at both the Center for a New American Security and the Hudson Institute, where he's a nuclear weapons expert. And expertise, which unsurprisingly generates some dark thoughts.

23 (14m 25s):
You have the potential to obliterate societies, whole societies and to do so very quickly. Because of that, an enormous amount of effort, brain power, material resources have been devoted to making sure that the use of nuclear weapons is deterred. And today the challenge is apolar system, how to avoid it. And if we can't, how to ensure that deterrence holds.

1 (14m 53s):
What is nuclear deterrence?

23 (14m 55s):
The objective is to keep your adversary from doing something you don't want them to do, which is conduct a nuclear attack against you. So I deter you. If I convince you that the cost you would incur by attacking me would outweigh any gains that you might hope to make by such an attack

1 (15m 15s):
In the bipolar nuclear era, when there were two big powers, the u s and the U S Ss R, what were the guiding principles that governed deterrence?

23 (15m 24s):
Well, two key features that were associated with deterrence, one was parody, which means each side has roughly the same number of nuclear weapons. So there's no perception that either side has any kind of advantage. And of course, deterrence is very much about perception. It's not what you think, it's what you're trying to create in the mind of your adversary. And so you don't want to give your adversary the impression that they have any kind of advantage, any kind of incentive to attack you. So that's parody. The other was assured destruction. And assured destruction basically says if you conduct a surprise attack against me, even in the case of a surprise attack after your attack, I'll still have sufficient numbers of nuclear weapons to destroy you as a society.

23 (16m 15s):
And this is kind of what Oppenheimer, who's now famous in the movies again, he described it as two scorpions in the bottle, as he said, one could destroy the other by stinging it, but only at the risk of incurring its own destruction.

1 (16m 30s):
How did this play out in real life?

23 (16m 32s):
Well, two examples. One I guess is the Cuban Missile Crisis.

24 (16m 37s):
Within the past week, unmistakable evidence has established the fact that a series of offensive missile sites is now in preparation on that imprisoned island.

23 (16m 50s):
And at that time, the Russians were at a major disadvantage in terms of the number of nuclear weapons. So they did not have parody with the United States. And at the time, the Soviet leader, Nikita Khrushchev, sought to catch up in a hurry by placing shorter range nuclear armed missiles in Cuba where they could actually strike the United States.

24 (17m 11s):
Each of these missiles, in short, is capable of striking Washington d c, the Panama Canal, Cape Canaveral, Mexico City, or any other city in the southeastern part of the United States.

23 (17m 25s):
What happened, of course, in the crisis, was President Kennedy threatened in a sense to go to war unless the Russians withdrew those missiles, which they did. But there's a story that after the Russians were embarrassed in this way, a Soviet diplomat said to an American, you'll never be able to do this to us again. And so the importance of parody, they engaged in a major nuclear buildup to the point where eventually we had this rough parody as they called it, that was more or less enshrined in the arms control agreements that we began to negotiate in the early 1970s.

23 (18m 5s):
And in terms of assured destruction in the late 1950s, as the Russians began to build up their arsenal, there was a concern, well what happens when they can actually attack the United States and destroy it? We began to worry about what would happen in the event of a surprise attack, and that led to discussions of assured destruction. How many weapons would need to survive such an attack for us to credibly be able to threaten the Soviet Union with its own destruction? Again, the two scorpions in a bottle. And of course when the Soviets caught up to us, when we had parody the term mutual issuer destruction, and of course the acronym mutually assured destruction, m a d mad seemed to, seemed to fit, given the horrors that any kind of a nuclear war on a large scale would inflict on society.

1 (18m 56s):
Alright, so if we move forward a couple of decades, we are now in a situation where there are three major nuclear powers, the US Russia, no longer the u ss s r, Russia and China. It seems like if you're observing this with no expertise, it seems like if you just take these principles, parody and assured destruction, you could apply them to three countries. Now, is that right?

23 (19m 22s):
Well, first point is the Chinese have not yet built up to Russian and American levels. So we, we have some time to think this through in the implications, but the projections right now is that they will seek to match us in terms of nuclear capability. The problem when you move from two powers to three nuclear powers, three large nuclear powers, is that parody and assured destruction become much more difficult to achieve. So it's been compared, or at least I've compared it to the astrophysics problem, which is called the three body problem. You can calculate the, the future movement of, of two celestial systems relatively easy.

23 (20m 5s):
So it's called sort of a stable system. If you bring a third celestial body, it becomes a very wicked or very complicated or unstable problem in terms of calculations. And certainly that's the case with respect to moving from a, a bipolar to a tri system. So when you think about parity, let's assume that each country has a hundred nuclear weapons. And again, this is a simplistic example, Russia China, the United States for any of the three to have parody would have to have 200 weapons. you know, that would imply that we would have 200, the Russians and the Chinese would each have 100. Well, if, if they're seeking parody, they're gonna build up to 200.

23 (20m 48s):
And of course you then create this dynamic where it's kind of the red Queen's race and Alice in Wonderland, where you run faster and faster, you build more and more weapons, but you never get to a situation where all three countries can have parody and then you could apply this to assured destruction. In the early 1960s, when we began to really worry about this, our defense secretary Robert McNamara, said, well, we would need at least 400 weapons to survive an attack. Mm well, let's go back to our simple example. Each country has a hundred and say we would need 40 weapons to survive an attack that's just against one power. How many would we need to survive against an attack by both powers?

23 (21m 30s):
Well, probably more than 40. Well, so we'd have to build up to achieve that, that residual number that we could have in the event of, of say, two surprise attacks. And so again, you get back to this arms race dynamic where the three sides begin to build up their arsenals to ensure that they have this assured destruction, this residual force, and they never quite make it because the other two are, are building at the same time.

1 (22m 6s):
What should nuclear deterrent strategy look like in a trilar era?

23 (22m 11s):
Well, that's, that's kind of the $64 question. Just again, to, to use our simple example, the waste nuclear forces are structured now it's possible to use one nuclear weapon to take out many. And so for example, if you look at the RR nuclear forces, they're basically built around three elements that's called a triad, one or submarines that are deployed under the, well, obviously under the water with nuclear weapons and other nuclear armed bombers. And the third are land-based missiles. And one of the problems you run into is that at any given time, a good proportion of these submarines are at the two major submarine bases that we have, and that our bombers are at one of five different airfields.

23 (23m 0s):
So for a very few number of nuclear weapons, an attacker can take out an enormous number of our nuclear weapons theoretically. And so there's, in a crisis, there could be this incentive to attack. The analogy is, is the two gunfighters In the old westerns, the incentive to draw first is, is very high because if you draw first, if you attack first using a relatively small number of nuclear weapons, you can take out an enormous number of the other side. And so one possibility is to emphasize strategies where the attacker has to use more than one weapon to take out one of yours. And one of the possibilities being explored right now is land-based missiles.

23 (23m 45s):
So we have these missile fields out in the, the Midwest, the Northern Midwest, and each of these missiles has one warhead on it, one nuclear weapon in testimony before Congress, the defense secretary has said it could take between two and four weapons to be certain that you've taken out this one missile. So go back to our a hundred, each example, you know, we each have a hundred nuclear weapons. If it takes you two or three or four to take out one of mine, then you're actually depleting your nuclear arsenal by attacking me at a faster rate than you're actually reducing mine. And that could enhance deterrence even in a a three nuclear power situation because it, it shifts the advantage from the attacker to the defender.

1 (24m 30s):
Can anyone, do you think at this point convince China that making more nuclear weapons, wanting more nuclear weapons is not only not in its best interest, but not in the best interest of the rest of the world? I mean, is there any way back from this?

23 (24m 46s):
I, I think if you look at Chinese behavior, they're in the third decade of their military buildup. And they have tried to match us in terms of military capability in every area, whether it's stealth aircraft or nuclear powered submarines or aircraft carriers, satellites, artificial intelligence and so on, cyber warfares. So it's, it's very difficult to see why they wouldn't want to match us in terms of what many people call the ultimate weapon nuclear weapons. I think you're absolutely right to say we need to really put some of our best brains to work on how we might dissuade the Chinese from going down this path.

23 (25m 31s):
But right now it's a very wicked problem in the sense that not only is there no obvious solution, there's not even in, in my estimation, any clear path to how you would get to one.

1 (25m 49s):
That was Dr. Andrew Krepinevich. Today's episode was produced by Amanda Lewellyn and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by Michael Rayfield and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.