1 (1s):
Hello, you've heard about the 2020 presidential race it all starts in the state of Iowa. And there is now a podcast all about the race in Iowa. It's from Spotify. It's called uncommitted, Iowa 2020 you can listen now. It drops every Tuesday and it's absolutely free on Spotify. It's Thanksgiving time. A lot of Americans are thinking about food but a lot of them are also thinking about a diet a diet that is much more than a diet. It's a lifestyle.

1 (42s):
It's a culture its Quito.

3 (45s):
I think you're referring to ketosis, which is this like holy grail fat-burning state that people on the ketogenic diet quest after

1 (53s):
yes, truly a blues. I am and you wrote about it for Vox. What is the ketogenic diet? Quito time

3 (1m 2s):
like we can't stop talking about it. Like a preaching thing is like a cult following the

1 (1m 6s):
ketogenic diet. Let's break down. What all this hype is about about about the

3 (1m 11s):
so it is ultra high fat ultra low carb diet fad craze. That's just gone absolutely viral right now, but the interesting part is that there's also a lot of really legit scientists who are exploring many different kinds of Health applications of the

1 (1m 26s):
diet. So before we get to that, Guess what is the diet? What are you eating? What are you not I want you to show me what you really eat every

3 (1m 34s):
day. So you're basically eating butter bacon avocados.

1 (1m 38s):
Can I ask you a personal question, of course your poop ever turn green

3 (1m 42s):
steak vegetables. Lots of fat and you're staying away from everything from too many fruits bread pasta pizza birthday cake so many vets you can take if you want right? You just can't have the baked potato people. Yolanda keto diet get about five percent of their calories from carbs 15% from protein and around 80% from

1 (2m 6s):
fats. Where did this come from? Was this like the Atkins diet where there's some dude who just said here's an idea. Is there a mr.

3 (2m 15s):
Keto? So there's no one figurehead and it is sort of a repackaging of the Atkins diet. It's sort of like this streamline Marie kondo version of Atkins where he had this like multi-phase. And you eventually reincorporated carbs with keto you just cut all that out and you'd stay that way and you live that way.

1 (2m 35s):
I sometimes see promotions for this diet on social media is Quito big on the gram as a big with the influencers.

3 (2m 42s):
Yeah. I think it's his combination of things. So some communities that are quite influential in the diet and exercise space embraced it like crossfitters

1 (2m 52s):
constantly varied high intensity functional movement leverage with meat and vegetables nuts and seeds some fruit little starch and no sir. Sugar increases work capacity across broad time and modal

3 (3m 2s):
domains. There are celebrities in Hollywood like Halle Berry. They whine look at this. You got to talk to us about this. So so what do you do? What's the workout regime? What do you eat? Come on, I swear by the ketogenic diet Kourtney Kardashian really hungry. I'm not in the middle of Silicon Valley has glommed on to it people like Tim Ferriss

1 (3m 24s):
the problem with the ketogenic diet is that if you don't get it, Perfectly, right it is the worst possible diet. You could

3 (3m 33s):
follow and from the Jersey Shore the next Jersey Shore character who has like this massive Instagram following. I think he's

1 (3m 41s):
called Cato Guido he tokui. Hello. Yeah. It looks like it's Vinny from Jersey Shore and the kitchen. I first got into eating low carb keto because I wanted to lose weight who says he's lost 50 pounds. Thanks to the keto diet man. Vinny's Ballin Out What is in this keto diet? But all I do know is it doesn't take many carbs. So he gets drunk fast. Most of my Jersey Shore roommates make fun of me for being keto even though they secretly love it and admire me. So is this the thing that they do they do like the before and after and then they got like the ABS afterwards. Yeah, so imply that you could just start eating certain food and you're going to be cut exactly that's not true cleaner.

3 (4m 23s):
Yeah, and if you search on social media, you see a ton of like hashtags Aikido transformation Quito Weight loss and you'll find many many befores and after images attributed to Quito

1 (4m 36s):
my one month of Quito starts now, so in addition to Vinny and Pauly and the Kardashians and some Silicon Valley Bros, who else is doing this does it appeal to like a certain

3 (4m 48s):
Market? Yeah, actually, I think it Taps into the market of men who have often been forgotten in this diet space. So when you think about Weight Watchers, right, it's something that Middle Ages. Suburban moms are doing poor guys. I don't know if this is all sexist but no, but then with keto it's sort of its meat heavy. It's something you can do by yourself. You can quantify whether you're on the diet. So it has this interesting self quantification

1 (5m 15s):
aspect. Are you talking about data? Yeah, it's

3 (5m 18s):
data-driven. Oh well by breathalyzers P strips that you pee on and they tell you how whether you're in ketosis or not, and there's blood tests as well.

1 (5m 28s):
But what if You don't want to buy anything to test if you're in ketosis. Well, there are other symptoms and signs that you can look for one of them is bad breath also known as keto breath

3 (5m 38s):
the uh, but anyway, there's this way there's a way to do self quantification and and maybe that's something that appeals to the dudes out there to go keto you have to reject a lot of the things that were told are an important part of a balanced diet. So whole grains and Breads and even fruits you really have to minimize your fruits, too. Back your diet. So I think yeah this moment where we're sort of rejecting the conventional wisdom and people are looking for alternative explanations for things. I think the diet resonates right now. They're also quite anti-establishment in like to assert that, you know, like the government guidelines have been misleading us and CDC and FDA are all corrupt and there's this diet that sort of turns the conventional wisdom on its

1 (6m 25s):
head so keto diets kind of like flipping the bird to any sort of conventional. It's like yeah

3 (6m 30s):
then pyramid can we drop the F-bomb on the

1 (6m 32s):
show? How can you start you

3 (6m 33s):
forgot sort of like the fuck everything, you know about conventional wisdom

1 (6m 37s):
died. It does seem too good to be true. So let's go to lie over here. What's your question? Yeah

3 (6m 42s):
does keto really burn fat and how does it work?

1 (6m 46s):
Yeah. How does it work? What are you measuring with these urine and blood

3 (6m 51s):
tests? You're just measuring the Ketone levels in your body. So when we're eating the typical high Diet our bodies are fueled primarily by glucose or blood sugar. So when we eat a bagel or a peach at lunch the glucose levels in our blood rise and the pancreas secretes insulin to turn glucose into a usable energy source, so it's able to move the glucose from the blood into ourselves, but our body didn't evolve to actually keep glucose on storage. So we just get it basically after we eat. There's no like long-lasting glucose stores around our Body, okay. So if we stop eating carbs our body has this amazing ability to adapt to whatever else we're putting in there and turn that into a usable energy source.

1 (7m 40s):
We've known for a long period of time that when you decrease carbohydrate intake markedly the body starts to use fat and when you burn fat you produce ketones in the body goes into

3 (7m 52s):
ketosis, so it's kind of like you think about our bodies like flex fuel vehicles that they can sort of adapt to whatever we're putting in them like a hybrid car exactly. So one of those adaptations is this process called ketogenesis and when were in ketogenesis, Deliver starts to break fat down both from the food. We're eating and from the fat that stored in our body. Yeah into this usable energy source called Ketone bodies or ketones for short and basically ketones can stand in his glucose for fuel when we're not eating carbs. So just to break down again. So on the high carb diet, you eat carbs, like pasta or bread your glucose levels rise, the pancreas secretes insulin, and then the insulin moves the glucose into ourselves to power our body on the keto diet a person needs fats, like steak and eggs the glucose and insulin levels in the body fall the liver converts the fat into ketones and then the ketones fuel the cells and tissues of the body.

3 (8m 55s):
Hmm. So you're making the body. A way to use fat as a source of

1 (8m 60s):
fuel and this process is what's known as ketogenesis.

3 (9m 4s):
Yes, and when your body is being fueled by ketones and you're in a state called ketosis and not stayed is measurable on those piece trips or the breathalyzers or blood test. You can see whether the Ketone levels in your body are higher or lower.

1 (9m 23s):
So is there another way to get the body into ketogenesis or is

3 (9m 27s):
this starvation? Oh, so when you fast yeah, so when you fast think about it again, our bodies don't have glucose stored up anywhere. So when you're not eating it has to turn to fat stores to start to get energy to keep going huh? So that's part of the reason people can survive for as long as 73 days without food because we start to just use the fat stores in our body and we can keep going.

1 (9m 52s):
Hmm. So I wonder I mean if the body thinks this is kind of like itself starving or it's similar to that. Does this actually work for obesity? I don't believe Vinnie's photos where he's all of a sudden got like a beautifully carved six pack out there on the streets, but does this help reduce obesity? Could this be like a potential cure to America's obesity epidemic, which I hear is pretty bad. Right?

3 (10m 17s):
Yeah. The Obesity epidemic is serious and Vinny's abs are probably attributed to more. More than the keto diet. He's probably been to CrossFit and the data we have so far. So just keto performs a lot like basically every other diet. There are some people who see tremendous success. There are some people who are just absolutely miserably fail and maybe even gain weight on the

1 (10m 39s):
diet and it's that's one of the weirdest things about people you don't that we are so variable depending upon your ancestry, you know, what part of the world they evolved use a lot of people out there that need a high carbohydrate diet and have zero issues with it

3 (10m 51s):
whatsoever on average Most people will lose a few pounds but have a tough time sticking to it in the long run

1 (10m 57s):
people miss some fruits different vegetables grains. It's hard. It becomes a very restrictive diet. So although people lose weight initially maintaining it and keeping it off long term is a real Challenge on a

3 (11m 8s):
keto diet. But he does have this real potential as a treatment for a few diseases and that's like this really serious and fascinating scientific exploration that's happening right now.

1 (11m 36s):
more in a minute on today explained from time to time on this show. We've been known to cover the 2020 presidential race. We talked about Bloomberg yesterday. We talked about the Democratic debates last week. We do that whole beat but we don't do it all the time. And for those of you out there who are like man, I love the show, but I wish it was about the 20/20 race every day.

1 (12m 19s):
It's not going to happen. But there is a show out there that you might enjoy it is called. Uncommitted Iowa 2020 and it comes to you from the people at Spotify and the people advice news. You can join the host of the show Antonia Hilton and Vice news reporters as they break down all the ins and outs of the Iowa caucuses in this new podcast. They'll tell you how this one Midwestern State became the Holy Grail of presidential politics and they'll bring you in depth reporting about what this election is all about in Iowa. What Atkins are fighting for and what they want the next president or the current president to fight for it's all going to be there in uncommitted Iowa 2022 podcast comes out on Tuesdays is free on Spotify.

1 (13m 7s):
It's a podcast. Blues you said this thing can actually help with diseases. I'm a little skeptical which diseases are they looking at?

3 (13m 20s):
So the three main applications that are started getting the most Attention our epilepsy diabetes and

1 (13m 26s):
cancer. All right. Let's go through them. One by one. What are they doing? How can eating a lot more steak help you with your epilepsy.

3 (13m 35s):
So this is one of the keto effects that have been really well-established. Okay. So for nearly a century doctors have been prescribing this diet to treat epilepsy. Really? Yeah the real thing and there's evidence from children and adults whose epilepsy wasn't controlled by medications that they experience has really big decline in seizures when they're on the keto diet and scientists still don't Know why it has this effect. But one of the ideas is that it makes neurons more resilient during seizures. So there is some kind of healing aspect there with the diet, huh? And this case this is actually like a pretty mainstream application of the keto

1 (14m 16s):
diet. And what about diabetes? Is that because what the keto diet involves lowering your sugar level altogether so it could help with diabetes

3 (14m 27s):
yellow controlling your blood sugar. Yep.

1 (14m 29s):
That one kind of makes sense. I

3 (14m 30s):
guess that's the idea. Yeah. And so this is one it's still a little bit controversial but it's becoming more mainstream. Yeah. So this spring the American Diabetes Association actually came out with a consensus statement where they suggested a very low carb diet could be this nutritional treatment option for some people diabetes. So this is Based on studies were researchers have found that Quito can reduce people's hemoglobin A1c, which is a measure of blood sugar. Okay, and also their Reliance on medications, but the effects tend to wane after a year probably because it's pretty hard to stay in ketosis and to stick to this diet that involves eliminating so many of the things were surrounded by all the time.

3 (15m 13s):
But yeah, this is definitely one of the areas that has a lot of Buzz and excitement around

1 (15m 18s):
it. And maybe the most outlandish of all these claims is that it could help with cancer.

3 (15m 25s):
I think so. So

1 (15m 26s):
remember when I said I was

3 (15m 27s):
skeptical. Yes and no one you should be skeptical because the cancer research has been mainly done in mice. No, but it's legit. So there are people like Siddhartha Mukherjee who's the Columbia University oncologist and author of the emperor of all maladies a Pulitzer prize-winning history of cancer. He's a serious guy, but he's studying The diet's effects on cancer and we think

1 (15m 52s):
that there is a relationship between insulin and many Cancers and we think that the in general reducing its it would be helpful. If we don't know what aspect of insulin is the

3 (16m 3s):
problem the idea is that kiddos effects on insulin and glucose levels. They might interfere with cancer cell growth. They're doing studies in mice and to be clear. They're not just studying whether the died itself can reverse cancer, but whether keto could be used as a cold drug With cancer drugs to sort of accelerate people's treatment response

1 (16m 24s):
basically patients with various kinds of cancer endometrial cancer lymphoma breast cancer and others will get a combination of pi3 kinase inhibitor the drug and be on a ketogenic diet and we'll measure everything insulin, etc. Etc. But most importantly will look for a

3 (16m 41s):
response. So the Mukerji trial in particular. It's moving into humans this year. It's

1 (16m 47s):
a phase 1 Study. It's a safety study hall. We will get some

3 (16m 50s):
signal but yeah, it's still way too early to say that there's a lot of stuff online about, you know, stop eating sugar to fight cancer and all that stuff. And when I talk to the people who are studying this they were very clear that we are absolutely super far from understanding whether that's true or not and it's possible that with some cancers cutting out sugar might accelerate the cancer. It's possible that it might in again interfere with tumor growth and help. Help reverse or treat cancer, but we have absolutely no idea right now. So don't believe those online videos.

1 (17m 30s):
Vinny

3 (17m 31s):
it all comes back to

1 (17m 31s):
Vinny. You know, they call me right Kito Guido. Is there a danger that people hear these sort of potential applications diabetes cancer epilepsy and just like stop eating carbs and vegetables and fruits and just like throwback fatty steaks every

3 (17m 50s):
day. Yeah, they're absolutely as there was a commentary in Gemma which is a really influential Journal recently and and a couple of doctors raise this issue of on a keto diet. You aren't getting much fiber and what effect does that have on long-term health and the microbiome and Other aspects that we know that fiber fuels and we also have evidence. They keto diet can ramp up your cholesterol levels and that might have an effect on heart disease over the long term doctors have also pointed to side effects like constipation and vitamin and mineral deficiencies. So there are definitely many unknowns. It's important to say we still really don't understand the long-term effects of staying in ketosis over

1 (18m 32s):
decades. So it's still even though we're talking about keto being this thing that Flies in the face of centuries, if not Millennia of our diets. It's still kind of like Choose Your Own Adventure out

3 (18m 43s):
there. Actually, that's right as

1 (18m 45s):
well.

3 (18m 49s):
Mukherjee wrote this times are bad where he points out that a lot of the nutritional advice. We've been giving people isn't based on hard science. And one of the reasons for that is that it's a really really difficult to study the effects of single Foods on the body and then how foods work in combinations and then foods are prepared in different ways, and then basically nutrition science is really complicated and it's hard to get clear and straightforward

1 (19m 12s):
answers

3 (19m 15s):
when you add one thing to your diet you're taking Some something else away. If you have a health impact from that, is it the thing you added or the thing you took away? It's a really really tricky area of science, but that's one reason why I'm excited about the research that's being done on keto for disease now because it might give us some answers.

1 (19m 41s):
Julia Blues writes about health for Vox. I'm Sean Rama's firm wishing you a healthy and happy Thanksgiving from team today explained the show's executive producer is Irene. Noguchi our Engineers a film Shapiro. The show is produced by Bridget McCarthy almond al-saadi Halima Shaw and Nam hassenfeld who makes music for us to the mysterious brake master cylinder makes even more music Olivia Eckstrom checks the most Facts and shouts to Jelani Carter NYC for being edgy today explained is produced in association with Stitcher. We are part of the VOX media podcast Network.

1 (20m 36s):
Thanks again for listening to the show today. And if you're looking for another show one last reminder that you can listen to uncommitted, Iowa 2020 every Tuesday on Spotify. It's a podcast that will exclusively talk to you about what's going down in Iowa and how those caucuses you keep hearing about are shaping up uncommitted Iowa 2020 from Vice news and Spotify. It's free.