1 (1s):
Luis Inacio Lula DeSilva one time Brazilian president one time convict of corruption, claimed to win in Brazil's presidential race. Early this morning, Lula's a leftist and his speech promising a new era of peace, love, and hope was standard lefty fair. But he also suggested the election was a win for democracy and a loss for authoritarianism. That part was aimed at the incumbent Jer Bolsonaro, a strong man who is beloved by millions of people for his strong Manness. Bolsonaro in response said nothing. He's been silent at another time in history.

1 (43s):
We might think he's seething before a polite concession, but this is not another time in history.

2 (49s):
He has always said that he believes that there would've been widespread fraud in the election and that he would not accept the result

1 (56s):
That's coming up on today. Explained

3 (59s):
Support for the show already comes from another show. This one's called Things That Go Boom, which sounds like a lot of fun and and things that go boom. It's a podcast about national security, which might sound like less fun to you, but bear with me here this season. Things that Go Boom is going deep on food and conflict and how war might impact some of your favorite foods. From warm chocolate chip cookies to crunchy tig, we did an episode early this year on how the war in Ukraine was affecting grain supplies between supply chain issues, empty shelves, and a potential nuclear attack on the bread basket of the world. Now is a great time to talk about the way war impacts the food we eat. Go listen to things that go boom on Apple podcasts or wherever you listen to such programs.

1 (1m 47s):
Let me guess, Unknown caller. You could reduce the number of unwanted calls and emails with online privacy protection. The latest innovation from Discover will help regularly remove your personal info, like your name and address from 10 popular people. Search websites that could sell your data and will do it for free. Activate in the Discover app, See terms and learn more at discover.com/online Privacy protection. It's today explained. AB Noel King Samantha Pearson covers Brazil for the Wall Street Journal, which means she has been glued to this election from her base in Sao Paulo.

2 (2m 31s):
It was actually the closest presidential race in Brazilian history. It was a nail biting few hours while we were waiting for the votes to be counted. But eventually the winner was Lud, a silver who was the former leftist president in Brazil. He was president from 2003 is 2010, and then he won by a very narrow margin against the incumbent President Jsan on the right. So he will be back in the presidency again for a third time. Come the first.

1 (3m 8s):
So we have a Lula win and perhaps just as significantly a Bolsonaro defeat. Big picture, what does this mean for Brazil?

2 (3m 17s):
This was a historic election in many ways. It was the first time that a president has actually failed to win reelection. It's very hard not to win a reelection in Brazil. So I think it really shows how much anger there is against the current president. Boston. Anna's not actually spoken since the election result last night, and he has always, you know, for the last few months at least, said that he believes that there would've been widespread fraud in the election and that he would not accept the result. There was a lot of concern and there still is some concern about, you know, how is he gonna respond to this defeat and would he try and even stage, you know, a military uprising or something. So democracy I think was definitely, is definitely at stake in this election as well.

1 (3m 58s):
Tell me about Shair Bolsonaro, the man who lost

2 (4m 1s):
So Jer Bolsonaro for most of his young career. He was in the army, He was an ex-army captain.

6 (4m 9s):
The country was ruled by a military regime from 1964 to 1985 when the regime fell in 1985 and Brazil became a democracy. Bolsonaro entered politics as a staunch, faraway conservative, eventually becoming a congressman for Rio de Janeiro.

2 (4m 24s):
He was on the fringes of Brazilian politics. He was always very much to the right, especially on social issues, less so on on economic issues. But he was that crazy guy that no one, no one speaks to.

7 (4m 36s):
Bolsonaro is a right wing ex-military populist who went in Congress, told a female colleague, I wouldn't rape you, you are not worth it, has said I would prefer my son to die in an accident than to have him be gay and loves making finger guns all the time.

2 (4m 53s):
And then comes with an economic crisis here in Brazil.

8 (4m 57s):
Workers party President Jomo, Seth was impeached in August on charges, she mishandled government funds. Her former vice president Michelle Dememer took over pledging austerity. Critics say the poor suffer the brunt of the cuts

2 (5m 11s):
And people were desperate, desperate for something completely different. They wanted someone who was against everything that they'd seen before they, they had this opinion, which is justified. The all politicians in Brazil corrupt. So they didn't want anyone from the system. They wanted an anti-establishment figure.

9 (5m 28s):
Saros voters say they're tired of violent crime and corruption in politics and they blame pt, the left wing workers party who've been in power for over a decade

1 (5m 38s):
Who is saros constituency. I mean, if it was such a, a close election, millions of people wanted this man to win. Who were they?

2 (5m 44s):
So a lot of like rich Brazilians, middle class Brazilians, like a lot of the poor support Lula, cuz Lula has done a lot more and did a lot when he was president in the past to help poor families by giving social welfare, but also putting a lot of kids into university, into college. Also, the urban areas sometimes tend to vote more in favor of like the cultural elite, I would say would vote for Lola, but then farmers would vote for Bolsonaro. So it comes to kind of down to like social groups rather than necessarily geographical areas. I would think

1 (6m 21s):
One of the social groups is evangelical Christians, right?

2 (6m 24s):
Yeah. So that's a huge group in Brazil, it's still unclear exactly how many evangelical Christians there are in Brazil because there hasn't been a census here since 2010. But people, people, researchers believe that it's probably about one in three Brazilians and now evangelical Christians. Now that's a radical change for a country that's that, you know, home to the biggest Catholic population still and has had, you know, huge changes. It's brought changes socially, economically, politically evangelical Christians in Brazil at least, they tend to be very socially conservative. So from that point of view, they've been big supporters of Boston. Adam Boston, Adam is actually a Catholic, but he keeps that pretty quiet.

2 (7m 6s):
He's married to an evangelical Christian. He's friendly with all of the, the powerful evangelical church leaders in Brazil who throughout this campaign, even against the electoral rules, they've been basically calling for votes within churches. You know, telling people that the only godly choice is Bolsonaro

1 (7m 24s):
Bolsonaro lost and if he lost it has to mean that he messed something up while he was in office. What did he mess up?

2 (7m 31s):
Well, a few things, and it depends on who you speak to, which of those things matters more. But I would say that the Covid pandemic really is a big issue. And in fact that's what we're seeing across Latin America. So incumbents are being kicked out of office partly as a response to the, the Covid pandemic. Now Brazil did a pretty bad job of handling the pandemic here. You know, the death was so high,

10 (7m 53s):
Covid 19 is nearly top or the country's healthcare system and hospitals are overwhelmed by patients and they are running out of supplies.

2 (8m 3s):
Oh, Sana was accused of belittling the disease at the beginning, at the very beginning he said that, Oh, CO's just a little cold, and why are people staying at home and try to encourage people to go back to work? He was also criticized for not doing enough to bring vaccines quickly enough to Brazil. So a lot of people were, were angry about that. They were also angry about the economic fallout of, of the pandemic that wasn't, that wasn't even really Boston Allen's fault, but that doesn't really matter, you know, because yours, you blame the person that's in charge. And inflation has risen dramatically in Brazil as it has in other country's unemployment peaks about 15% last year. So, and that's really affected a lot of poorer families in Brazil, about 33 million people now in Brazil just can't afford to eat.

2 (8m 48s):
So this situation is, is critical and they blame scenario and they remember how good things were under Lola. They wanna go back, back to that kind of the golden years of the past.

1 (8m 58s):
And tell me about Lula. He clearly capitalized on a situation where things were not going well for the incumbent. Who was he?

2 (9m 7s):
Lula. He came from a very poor background. He was the seventh son of illiterate farm workers. Lula

11 (9m 14s):
Began training as a metal worker at 14. He got his first job at a warehouse in 1980. Lula established the worker party or bt

2 (9m 22s):
When he came to par in 2003 for the first time, he was the first person from poverty that'd ever become Brazil's president. And that was a radical change for Brazilians. He was extremely popular, even if you don't like him very much and you even if you're on the right, if you sit to listen to him for 10 minutes, I guarantee you that he will, that you'll laugh or that he will chime you in some way. He's, he's a great speaker, he's a great negotiator. He also got lucky to be fair during his two terms in in office in the two thousands, that was when it was in China, commodity boom was was happening and, and that really benefited Brazil because China is the biggest buyer of Brazilian commodities.

2 (10m 2s):
So there's a lot of cash flowing into Brazil at that point. And then Ola channeled a lot of that cash into social welfare programs, infrastructure which created jobs. So he, he really had a great, a great time in office.

12 (10m 16s):
Yes, it's still famous for its music and carnival, but today Brazil is something much more nation of 200 million. It's now the world's six largest economy, an energy giant with a booming manufacturing sector and growing middle class.

2 (10m 31s):
He left with an approval rating of more than 80% barba at the time he even said he was the most popular politician on earth. So things were very, very good for Lula. Then came the carwash corruption scandal, which then eventually landed Lula in jail. The carwash corruption scandal was the biggest corruption scandal in Brazil's history in Latin America's history and possibly in the world. It was an investigation into a scheme whereby businessmen would basically pay bribes of politicians in order to win contracts, primarily at Petrobras, which is Brazil's big oil company, but also at other state companies.

13 (11m 12s):
The probe named after one of the businesses used to launder the Shook Brazil to the core.

2 (11m 18s):
Now this investigation rolled on for, for a few years and it gradually kind of implicated more senior people, you know, senior business people and politicians. And then eventually Lula Lula was convicted in 2017 and 2019 of corruption and money laundering. His sentence was then confirmed by higher court and then he was put in jail in April, 2018.

1 (11m 44s):
All right, so how did a guy who went to jail four and a half years ago end up running for president?

2 (11m 49s):
So Lola actually only spent 19 months in jail in the end, he was released in November, 2019 for a series of very technical reasons that I would say that most Brazilians don't actually understand.

14 (12m 2s):
Simply Lula left prison on Friday surrounded by hundreds of his supporters.

16 (12m 9s):
You have no idea of the significance for me to be here with you. I who my whole life talked with the Brazilian people, never thought that today I could be here talking with men and women who during the past 580 days were here saying, Good morning, Lula, good afternoon, Lula and

2 (12m 25s):
Yelling. Then the Supreme Court ruled again. They auld his 2017 conviction and another conviction in 2019 for corruption and money laundering saying that the, the cases had been tried in the wrong jurisdiction. Those cases were never retried and the statute of limitations expired on both of them. So Lula will tell everyone that he's innocent. That's not strictly true. He was never found innocent because his cases were never retried. So it's very, very complicated, very Brazilian and that's basically the reason that he was released from jail in 2019 and then subsequently allowed to run for election this month.

1 (13m 2s):
One of the candidates, Bolsonaro had authoritarian tendencies. One of the candidates, Lula had been to jail for corruption. I imagine that over the course of this campaign, these two men used these things against each other. Can you tell me what the campaigning was like?

2 (13m 18s):
It was a horrible, a horrible campaign, a very tense campaign. It was this dramatic choice, right between either voting for an excon or voting for people who thought was gonna be a dictator. So it was just a horrible choice. In Brazil, voting is obligatory, which makes it even worse. So you can't just kind of like sit at home and try and ignore the whole thing. You've actually gotta go out and vote or you pay fine. And so it was a very much a race kind of based on identity, based on insults. The debates were very ugly at points. We were even wondering if they were gonna get into a physical fight. There was very little discussion of actual policy of the future of of Brazil, which was a shame.

2 (13m 59s):
The campaign was also full of fake news as we say, you know, misinformation, rumors. The most ridiculous rumor I had yesterday, even yesterday was that the Supreme Court judges had released Lula from jail because Lula knew they were all pedophiles. So, and these are like intelligent people. This was a teacher who told me this last week, you know, these are intelligent people who are normally seem reasonable human beings and then they start telling you about, you know, why they're gonna vote. And it's just incredible. I kind of wonder how many people voted yesterday on reasons that weren't in fact really true, which is just disastrous for democracy, right? And a lot of this is down to, you know, rampant use of social media and difficulties really in controlling social media because if you exaggerate and you know you, you keep removing content, then that also brings up issues of free speech.

2 (14m 48s):
So it's a really, really complicated time to be a politician to, to run a political campaign for sure.

11 (15m 9s):
How do you define death?

17 (15m 12s):
Up until about the 1950s, there was no confusion. You weren't breathing, your heart had stopped. But then at

18 (15m 21s):
Haw Hospital in Cape Town, the world's first surgical operation to transplant a human heart was performed

17 (15m 26s):
When you took the heart out of the donor and put it into the recipient. Was the donor dead? Cause that heart was beating.

18 (15m 33s):
Soon it became clear that the medical world was divided.

17 (15m 37s):
You could be alive in one state and dead in another.

19 (15m 39s):
The fundamental conflict circles around different notions of

11 (15m 43s):
Death. But what if I told you that that's not the end?

20 (15m 46s):
Researchers at Yale used a new technology to reanimate some of the organs of pigs that had just died,

11 (15m 53s):
Which means defining death will become harder in the future

3 (15m 59s):
This weekend unexplainable. What is death? And if we're not exactly sure, what does that mean for the living follow unexplainable wherever you listen new episodes every Wednesday.

21 (16m 14s):
Hey, I'm Jolyn Hill, I'm a producer here at Fox and if you're anything like me, you know that news moves really quickly, especially during an election, whether it's the polling,

22 (16m 27s):
We're asking a lot more of political polling than it is able to give us

21 (16m 32s):
Ballad initiatives.

23 (16m 34s):
Abortion is the most obvious one here. Like, it's like, well there's the most ballot measures ever. And it's like, well yeah, because you know, there's no longer a bedrock supreme Court protection that really limits what states and voters can do.

21 (16m 47s):
Or the issue on voters' minds

24 (16m 49s):
Fair is a huge motivator for voters and maybe a more effective one than trying to get them enthusiastic about a particular politician's policy platform.

21 (16m 58s):
Things are happening fast and the weeds is here to slow you down with smart, in-depth conversations about the policies, the politics, and the information you need ahead of the midterms. You can find the weeds wherever you get your podcasts. New episodes drop every Tuesday.

1 (17m 25s):
It's today explained. We're back with Samantha Pearson, the Wall Street Journal's woman in SA Paulo and Samantha Bolsonaro still has not spoken after his loss to Lula de Silva. And this has a lot of people very worried, Why is everyone freaking out?

2 (17m 44s):
So there is a lot of concern. Concern because Barcena has said nothing, literally nothing since the election last night. There were rumors that he, he went straight to bed after the result. And it's concerning because Boston Adam is an authoritarian figure and he is in the past said many things that would lead you to believe that he would like to stay some kind of, you know, intervention, let's say in Brazil as a democracy. He said in the past that he would like to close down Congress and then more recently he's been questioning the voting processes saying that he doesn't believe that it was a fair vote and that he's not going to accept the results. And so we are, and we have been waiting for this to happen.

2 (18m 27s):
So for Bolton to come out and say that the results are not fair and that there was fraud and then the question would be, you know, is he gonna get support for that message, mainly from the military, which is a big question mark because the military, it's very hard to know exactly where they stand on this issue. Obviously the spoke people for the Aries, they know we, we support democracy and stuff, but it's very hard to know what really, you know, people inside the military believe in to what lengths they would go to support Bona and also his own supporters, right? I mean it's been a politically violent tense campaign

25 (18m 60s):
For the last few days. Rio de Janeiro Council Sheko a car has been arriving for work in a bulletproof car. The veteran leftwinger a candidates in the federal legislative elections has taken security measures because he's just received a death

2 (19m 15s):
Threat. There's been a lot of attacks, politically motivated attacks, which is something we haven't seen in Brazil already before.

25 (19m 21s):
In July in the middle of a birthday party, a worker's party activist was killed by a bol Sonata policeman.

2 (19m 26s):
So there was concern that people would take to the streets and maybe things would get violent, but absolutely nothing has happened so far and that's is good, but it's also a little bit terrifying. I mean, I've always kind of thought that these concerns were a little overblown and in fact a lot of the Boston Anna supporters I've spoken to since the result, you know, they're kind of planning their, their move to Portugal or Miami at this point. They're not, they're not reaching for their guns ready to join an uprising. But Barcena hasn't said anything, although some of his allies, in fact his strongest allies, you know, conservative allies have put out statements saying they accept the result and that, you know, now we're gonna fight from the side of the opposition and stuff.

2 (20m 6s):
So I kind of find it hard to believe that Botana would now come out and say long live the revolution or something. Do you know what I mean? I find it hard to believe that's gonna happen now cuz he really would seem to be on his own unless he is plotting something with a military bit. So far so good. I think that he hasn't said very much, but we'll see.

1 (20m 26s):
One of the big ways that Brazil affects the rest of the world and one of the big ways that the president of Brazil really matters is that whoever is in that office controls to some degree the fate of the Amazon.

26 (20m 40s):
Well the Amazon force is one of the most violent, diverse regions on earth. We all understand it as crucial to the fights fight against climate change because of colds and is capable of holding so much carbon. There's

1 (20m 52s):
Not one day, we've heard for years now about how under Bolsonaro, the Amazon is being cut down faster than ever and that has worried a lot of people who want to breathe air. Where does Lula come down on this?

2 (21m 4s):
During this campaign, this battle has been painted as a fight between good and evil. And you know, Lula being the good and Boston a being the evil on many issues, including the Amazon. And to an extent that is true because, you know, deforestation has risen very sharply under the Boston, a administration, an area nearly the size of Maryann was deforested while he was in office. He's cut funding for enforcement agencies and he's expressed support for, for ranchers and minus. And that's just created a very dangerous and kind of damaging situation in the Amazon.

27 (21m 43s):
This government's established a true partnership with environmental crime organizations prosecuting officials are being persecuted for enforcing the law and fighting crime, fighting deforestation.

2 (21m 55s):
And under Lola deforestation declined 70%. So I mean, it is clear that Lula is a better, a better outcome for the Amazon, but he's not perfect. So for example, one issue that people have been talking about is that Bolsonaro have been planning to pave this massive highway that kind of slices through through the Amazon and that would've then, you know, brought more development to the region and more deforestation. But in fact, Lola has also has also promised to pave the same road. But I think it, you know, the consensus is that Lula would do that with more responsibility. He would take more care to, you know, put in protections that this wouldn't need to in a massive deforestation along that strip of land.

1 (22m 40s):
One interesting point off the back of that is with Lulu's election, six of Latin America's largest countries are now led by leftists. Five years ago, many of those countries had right wing governments.

28 (22m 54s):
The pink tide or the tongue to the left is a political phenomenon in L America. It indicates the rise of left wing governments focused on social democracy.

1 (23m 5s):
How do you think this region is changing? What should we be taking away from this?

2 (23m 10s):
I would argue, I know as of January the first, when Nula takes office, all of the major countries in Latin America are gonna be run by leftist governments. And that is, that's a huge change, as you say from from recent years. But I would say that this, this round of leftist governments is very different to the leftist, you know, pink tide that we saw in the two thousands because I feel like that was more ideologically coherent in the sense that these leftist leaders had more in common about the way they were tackling social issues and economic issues. But nowadays, if you actually take these leftist leaders, they have very different opinions. So if you, you know, abortion or the economy or same sex marriage or stuff, these are very, they actually have quite varied opinions.

2 (23m 52s):
I would say what's happening right now in Latin America is not necessarily a move to the left, but I would say that it's a move just to throw out the incumbents part, because of the Covid pandemic and because the region was generally to the right, it so happens that the people being a left and and now to the left, but this is not a move necessarily to the left in Brazil because there is still very strong right wing movement in Brazil. A lot of the people who won elections in Congress this month where right wing alls the Boston out. So I would say that Lula was more about throwing out the incumbent rather than a move back to the left.

1 (24m 33s):
Let me ask you lastly, Samantha, we've been through a refusal to accept the results of an election here in the US It was a louder refusal, certainly. Do you see any similarities here?

2 (24m 47s):
I would say, may not say anything now, but you know, when he has to hand over power in January, you know what's gonna happen then maybe there will be some kind of uprising as we saw in the us Maybe there will be these violent protests by his supporters. So it's not over yet, I think, I mean, we'll have to see what Bona says when he does choose to speak, but I would say that that January moment is gonna be very, very tense. And I would say that this issue is kind of not over until he actually hands over the presidential sash to Lula or flings it on the floor in front of him or whatever he's planning to do. But until there's been that transition of power, I don't think we can kind of breathe easy yet.

1 (25m 35s):
Today's show was produced by Miles Brian and Amanda Luellen. It was edited by Matthew Colette and fact checked by a team led by Laura Bullard. It was engineered by a theme, Shapiro. I'm Noel King, It's today explained.