1 (0s):
A global pandemic protests across the country a nationwide recession so far 2020 has felt like 10 or 15 years or wrapped up in one and I think we should talk it all out. I'm Sam Sanders. I host an NPR podcast called. It's been a minute each week on my show. I have conversations with all kinds of people to make sense of the news and the culture without making you feel overwhelmed join us every Tuesday and Friday. Listen And subscribe now, it's been a minute from NPR. It's a challenging time for small businesses and communities across the country. Facebook's business resource Hub offers free tools to help you manage your business support your customers and employees and connect with other business owners who are facing similar challenges from information on how to bring your business online to setting up a customer service plan.

1 (50s):
Facebook's business. Resource Hub. Has you covered learn more at facebook.com resource. That's facebook.com slash resource. All over the United States people are talking about police reform defund the police abolish the police or in more cases at least change the police broadly speaking. What we're talking about here is Criminal Justice Reform and a lot of ways. The police are the front lines of the Criminal Justice System, then it's the court system. And then there's the prison system all of this together makes up the criminal justice system and the people Who's been calling for Criminal Justice Reform since long before the death of George Floyd are hoping that the movement for change right now isn't limited to the police one example is called for bail reform.

1 (1m 43s):
The United States is one of only two countries in the world with a for-profit bail system. It's us and the Philippines for profit as in when you arrested. You got to post bail if you want to wait for your trial from home. If you don't have the money you are someone who loves you a lot goes to a bail bondsman. Women and signs over their house or something valuable as collateral for a loan or you stay in jail with all the arrests of protesters in the past few weeks. There's been a ton more attention than usual paid to the bail system in the United States take the Minnesota Freedom fund as an example. It's a bail fund that helps poor people who don't have the money get out of jail after arrest according to NPR the organization had about a hundred and fifty thousand dollars on hand in 2018 in the past few weeks.

1 (2m 30s):
It has raised. Over 30 million dollars from something like nine hundred thousand individual donations. And that's just one bail fund millions of Americans have donated to these funds in the past few weeks and in doing so they're saying the system doesn't work. It needs to change Adam Foss has been trying to change the bail system in America for a while.

2 (2m 52s):
I'm the executive director of an organization called prosecutor impact and I'm currently in Los Angeles,

1 (2m 57s):
California. He started out on the other side of this issue.

2 (3m 1s):
I got into the criminal justice system as a law student. I spent a summer as a law clerk for a judge and Municipal Court in Boston. And that's really where my first-hand experience with our justice system started and I watched every single day as the issue of bail came up in people's lives and really didn't understand the impact that that decision was was making on people's lives and that We happened for me until I became a prosecutor and was asking on my first day of work for people to go to jail. I think about myself as a young lawyer thinking that I'm doing a good job doing the sort of perfunctory function of the criminal justice system that I literally learned on the job and think of oftentimes back to those moments in court and not really knowing what happened to those people and their families and their lives in the safety of the community because the decisions that I was making And

1 (4m 1s):
the decisions he was making were largely influenced by a document drawn up in medieval England, believe it or not. You may have heard of it. They call it the Magna

2 (4m 8s):
Carta. So you're talking about a document from like 800 years ago. You needed collateral to make sure that people came to their quote unquote court date. It was a vehicle to give the government or the monarchy the ability to know that you would show up when you were called to do so and that is how Bail started in the British colonies and then obviously it followed folks who left Great Britain's coming United States to build the colonies. They were just pulling bits and pieces of the old justice system to start the justice system here and one of them was this concept of bail.

1 (4m 48s):
So how does bail look in 2020 compared to whenever the Magna Carta was signed like 800 years

2 (4m 55s):
ago bill looks and operates and much the same fashion. I'm sure whatever. It was exchanged for collateral in the 13th century is no longer what is exchange for collateral here? But the function is the same. I put something of value I give it to the government or to the new institution that that obviously we have that they did not have then which was the concept of a bail bondsman. If I don't come to court the government and or the bail bondsman absorbs that collateral that I've given them and I'm now considered a fugitive or in the alternative. If I make all my court dates and my taste resolves I get that collateral

1 (5m 34s):
back. Hmm and so you worked inside this system. How exactly is is the price of bail in the modern Criminal Justice System set

2 (5m 45s):
bail is set typically twice. There is a person or persons and lots of communities call the bail commissioner who is the person who usually comes in at the time that you are arrested in sets of Baal. And so if you're arrested overnight when the courts are not open in most communities across the United States a person who is affiliated with the court will come And look at your paperwork and set an original bail. If you cannot make that value will be brought to court. And in the in the morning, you'll have a new bail hearing. And again, this is a very general overview of how bail works. It's different and lots of communities that bail determination.

2 (6m 26s):
The next day is made by two actors in the system the prosecutor and the judge who ultimately sets the bail. The prosecutor is recommending a bail amount to the judge based on. on typically the charge or charges at the person is facing and then charges for they've had in the past and whether or not they've failed to appear in court before the prosecutor request the judge of an amount and the judge will hear from the person who's been accused their lawyer and we'll make a decision about how much fail if any to set and of

1 (6m 59s):
course what happens if you can't make bail

2 (7m 3s):
if you can't make Bill a judge sets a bail of Dollars and for a lot of people that has a month's worth of rent and necessities and if they can't make bail for their loved one their loved one then is taken to the custody of the state and will stay in jail and pretrial detention every day until their case is

1 (7m 23s):
resolved. In May of 2010 sixteen-year-old kalief Browder was walking home from a party in the Bronx when he was stopped by the police and arrested for robbery. They said was going to take you to the precinct and most likely were going to let you go home and then I never went

2 (7m 40s):
home. Kalief Browder who was in Rikers for the alleged theft of a backpack was there for almost three

1 (7m 49s):
years evidence that they supposedly had on me which was to do saying that I robbed in his statement and I told him I didn't do this. I don't know how I'm here. He said he's going to work on the case, but I thought wow just gave up.

2 (8m 2s):
Hope for Khalif someone who's very young someone who is struggling with mental health. Are place that is terrible for mental health? He was brutalized. He was victimized. He was held in solitary confinement for several months of that confinement.

1 (8m 23s):
I spent three New Year's in a 3-4 my birthday's I spent a lot of holidays in

2 (8m 27s):
that his case was ultimately dismissed shortly after he was released. He took his own life.

1 (8m 33s):
Kalief Browder committed suicide hanging himself out a window of his mother's home his family. She is now suing the New York Department of Corrections. I want them to be responsible to admit that it was their fault that my son is dead. He spent three years in hell

2 (8m 54s):
and so that is an outlier people are held on pretrial detention on average in this country for 23 days. But when I say outlier don't want to make it sound like it's rare people are held for months sometimes years. Pretrial detention but we get lost in those stories of these really like Draconian length of time that people stand because what we know is like three days can be really disruptive and damaging to life of people who find themselves and stand in the criminal justice

1 (9m 22s):
system. How many Americans are in jail right now? Because they can't make bail do we know

2 (9m 30s):
On Any Given night we estimate that there are around 700,000 people sitting in pretrial detention in jails around the

1 (9m 38s):
country and I guess we should make the distinction here. These aren't like 700,000 people who are broadly representative of the United States or even people who write interact with the criminal justice system. These are 700,000 of the poorest people who interact with the criminal justice system.

2 (9m 55s):
Right. Yeah, I think what is also important to recognize about those 700,000 people is that under our constitution? They're

1 (10m 0s):
innocent. What is life like for these 700,000 Americans. I mean what's going on in their lives while they can't post whatever it might be a $500 $1,000 bail

2 (10m 14s):
what's going on in their lives is what's going on in everybody else's lives except when you're living on the margins. Those things are much more unstable much more acute and you're sort of just living in a constant. State of little fires, they're working hourly wage jobs. And if they don't show up there replace if you are if you are being held, you know around the first of the 15th of the month and the rent is due. I might feel empowered as a young person to reach out to my landlord. And as I did often when I was that age and say hey, I'm going to be a little late on rent this month, but when you are living on the margins and you were living in public housing, you don't have that privilege and so you could lose your home when you have bills that are due.

2 (10m 56s):
And your credit has already taken a hit because of the challenges you have in your life and those bills come due and you're in jail where I might have as a privileged person just avoided the phone calls from the creditors and paid bills. When I when I had the ability to do so folks who again are living on the margins don't have that privilege and so often times will come back to a repossessed car or worse. And so the incarceration that they are enduring during during the life of their case is actually making us less safe because it's removing lots of factors that keep people stable in their lives and therefore safe the Bail system creates a two-tiered criminal justice system one for the wealthy people and one for anyone who's not wealthy and we often focus on how unfair it is that Paul manafort or Harvey Weinstein or Brock Turner any of these folks have the means to post bail and get out, but that's that's what we want.

2 (11m 57s):
We want the system to allow for people to pay what they can so that they can get out and it doesn't work that way. We don't have an equal. Dispensation of Law and therefore it creates a lot of distrust and cynicism when it comes to our criminal justice system.

1 (12m 13s):
I imagine when some people who say that they think but what if someone gets out and commits another crime how often do people on either of these two tiers get out on bail and then commit another crime

2 (12m 25s):
but question is kind of irrelevant because Bill was never intended as a safety

1 (12m 30s):
mechanism

2 (12m 35s):
bill was intended to ensure that someone it comes back to court people fail to return to court. But again, there are a myriad reasons that people fail to return a court that have nothing to do with them like fleeing

1 (12m 47s):
absconding after the break how to reform bail in the United States. This is essential talks a podcast. That is all about breaking barriers to well-being mom. I think I maybe have gotten my period shedding light on stigmas and finding out how we can counter them.

1 (13m 29s):
If you can make some did laugh about something then they talk about it. And if you get them talking about things, then you can nudge them into trying to get some help for it. We talk with people from all around the world who have experienced these types of stigmas the time. Shocked at how difficult it still seems to manage my period

2 (13m 47s):
I would like to see the conversation

1 (13m 48s):
normalized and experts about subjects such as incontinent hand hygiene and menstruation parents are more and more concerned about children being safe in school. We might have made a breakthrough and how has covid-19 changed our perception and behaviors around health and hygiene. It's very impressive. It's really cool to see how dedicated people can be. This was a new one for us. When we will be put into a situation we will adapt to that. I'm Tom Henley and this is essential talks brought to you by SRT. First it feels good. Like when your first year the latest summer anthem.

1 (14m 32s):
And first to share it with your friends who know you're always first to everything. Well, here's a new first for you Samsung Galaxy 5G. Yes. 5G Now on Galaxy helping you be one of the first on 5G so you can be first to even more like streaming with virtually no lag so you can be first to tell your friends what show to watch. Yes. Another first. They'll think Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy S 25 G and a 71 5G feels good to be free. With Samsung 5G seeds very and require Optical networking connections factors include frequency bandwidth congestion be carrier for availability Adam. I think anyone can look at the story of kalief Browder and say quite plainly the system is broken it either doesn't work as it was designed or it was designed in a totally unjust unfair way.

1 (15m 25s):
I guess that's why we have Bill funds to to address that imbalance. But what do we do without bail? How do you ensure people come back for their court dates

2 (15m 32s):
particularly with the Bell funds but other nonprofits that have popped up around the country that hold themselves out to be pretrial services nonprofits. They do things like text people reminders of their court dates schedule child care for them help them work their employers so that their employers other don't find out about or are happy to have their folks make their court dates remove. Of the barriers that are for the most part keeping people from coming to court. There are going to be the people who flee the country or go somewhere where we can't find them, but those people are so few to hold up an entire institution at we know cause all this damage to catch those few is a silly way to go about

1 (16m 15s):
things from how many bail funds have been seeing people sharing online. I'm guessing there hasn't been a lot of bail abolition in the country. Has anyone had luck. With reform

2 (16m 26s):
so the places that sort of stick out and our New York, New Jersey and California in California the state departed from its relationship with Bail Bonds transfer the power of sort of decision making around bail to judicial Council Bill Advocates. I would say have reasonable disagreement whether or not that was a good thing because of was just sort of like moving the deck chairs around the Titanic New Jersey is a bit of a A happier story, although it's not perfect. They've abolished cash bail. They've moved to her preventive detention model that place has a really high burden on basically the prosecutors to show that the person who is accused of a crime can be out because they pose some specific risk of danger as a result.

2 (17m 12s):
You've seen pre-trial detention plummet in those places and there was not sort of like the commensurate raisin crime that the bail bonds or the police departments were warning people about my

1 (17m 24s):
proposal. The last year was no cash bail..

2 (17m 30s):
New York last year had a lot of successful legislation around bail and people really excited about New York's move on bail. And as soon as it was sort of codified the government in the legislature turn right around and rolled back a lot of the bail reform that had the Advocates had tramped

1 (17m 52s):
on changing the system. We started to do is complicated and then has a number of ramifications. There's no doubt. This is still a work in progress. And there are other changes that have to be

2 (18m 5s):
made there was never really the appetite for bail reform. Anyways outside of maybe this city. So like New York is an interesting place because we think of it as representative of the city of New York, but we forget about the rest of the state which looks very very different and that's who controls the legislature

1 (18m 23s):
Buffalo common. Council members Chris Scanlon and Joe Farrell. It'll say a number of people in their districts are now worried about their safety when people see new stories about someone driving without a driver's license striking someone and killing them and that person walking the next day with not even the possibility of bail is very concerning to a lot of people who's out there fighting to keep bail just the way it is.

2 (18m 48s):
So there are a few a few bodies one is the uninformed general public, who are Stan's bail to be the thing that keeps them safe from the bad people who are arrested people who post valid then go out and do something bad. There. They come up once in a while. And so those are really focused on by the sheriff's unions and police hands. Some people would argue that Sheriff's have a vested interest in keeping their jails full their budgets rely on how many people are inside of their jails. And so they have a financial motive and then the most direct Sort of like profit motive isn't bail bondsman. You pay them a percentage of your bail.

2 (19m 29s):
They will put your bail up. If you fail to return they keep the money that you paid them. If you return they give you back some of the money keeping your percentage for themselves and you know, like I've seen up to 30% in some places. They're typically somewhere around 5 to 10% but there are egregious examples all over the

1 (19m 49s):
place our bail bondsman a persuasive political force. Is it you know, their interests coupled with say the interest of police unions and and Sheriff's unions and even you know, prisons and jails themselves that make this sort of more compelling for

2 (20m 10s):
politicians. They are a tremendous lobbying Force as a singular institution because of sort of like their diffusion in the population just if you go to any jail where there are bail, When I knew just walk around the neighborhood where the jail is you'll see them everywhere.

1 (20m 29s):
How is that going to change? Do you feel like this is a moment or do you feel like the moment still to come?

2 (20m 36s):
I feel like this is a moment. But again, we've had plenty of moments where we get ourselves all worked up and then something else happens and we chase that bright and shiny thing. I don't know one people will feel VII need to change the system. Lots of people are responsive to moments. Lots of people kind of get it because they have watched something or they've heard something that strikes them. But the people who are doing bail reform work, the people who are doing police accountability work the people who are doing prosecutor reform.

2 (21m 17s):
Most of the people who are on the front lines are doing it because they've they've been harmed by these systems personally or professionally or both And most of the United States of America has a privilege never to have been harmed by any of these systems and so I'm I'm skeptical of when that moment will come that people will actually feel that direct pain of the Criminal Justice System. It is foolish what we are doing it's embarrassing what we are doing and we should all be embarrassed. There's only so long that we can beat ourselves in the chest and talk about how great we are when we look around in the entire world is protesting and looking at us and saying do something about

1 (21m 58s):
it. Adams boss runs a not-for-profit called prosecutor impact. It's an organization that tackles Criminal Justice Reform starting with prosecutors. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today explained.

1 (22m 45s):
No one would ever thought an entrenched immunity like Hollywood could let someone come in and completely disrupt the content. I'm Ronnie Mo Le and I'm Peter Kafka and we are the host of a new season of Land of the Giants the Netflix effect for exploring all things Netflix by talking with people who started the

2 (23m 3s):
company will get into their bruising battle with

1 (23m 5s):
Blockbuster that was 20 times larger than us, which is not a good place to be. Okay. So you many of us why I feel like so randomly lucky to have survived. Well look at a mistake that could have ended the company in hindsight. It was incredibly tone-deaf and it blew up in our faces as it should have and we'll talk about how Netflix took over our screens and how

2 (23m 24s):
they plan to win the war for our

1 (23m 26s):
attention Land of the Giants the Netflix effect from recode and the VOX media podcast Network first episode drops, June

2 (23m 32s):
23rd. Listen And subscribe on Apple podcast Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts.