1 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from caviar the caviar app offers you a curated list of great local restaurants in more than 25 major American cities, but my question is is anyone selling caviar on caviar? Like is it that fancy would you order it? If so, is it still good when it gets to your house? Let me know. I'm easy to find and also remember the caviar Right Now is offering today explain listeners $10 off the purchase of $20 or more. With the offer code explained download caviar on the app store Google Play and use the offer code explained

2 (37s):
the federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge Biden can lead on reproductive Freedom by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing. Sign bills with hide restrictions the time to end hide is now paid for by American civil liberties Union Inc rights for all dot-org.

1 (1m 21s):
It's August 18 2020 and that might not mean much to you but a hundred years ago today the 19th amendment was ratified it red. Ed the right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or Abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex boom American women have the right to vote end of story except it's not on the Centenary of the 19th amendment ratification voter suppression is a growth industry from the shenanigans at the United States Postal Service. We covered on yesterday's show two recent attempts to purge voter rolls.

1 (2m 1s):
Battleground States like Pennsylvania, Wisconsin to the endless lines. We've seen across the country as people have tried to exercise their right to vote in primaries during this pandemic. That's why I'm speaking to history Professor Robin Muncie about the 19th Amendment on the show today

2 (2m 19s):
because this Centenary the history of women's suffrage shows us that the work of being a democratic citizen is never ending and relentless. Is the kinds of struggles that we are having right now over voting rights? We have been having since the founding of the Republic they are endemic to our democracy. Some people could be depressed by that. But if we look at the history of the struggles of women for voting rights, we see courage and strength and relentlessness and that is our path forward to

1 (3m 2s):
When exactly does this story of women's suffrage in the United States start,

2 (3m 7s):
I think it starts at the founding of the Republic in 1776 New Jersey adopted a constitution that said that all inhabitants inhabitants with a certain amount

1 (3m 24s):
of personal property could vote

2 (3m 28s):
and it was personal property. Not real.

4 (3m 30s):
Property wasn't real estate so you could

2 (3m 32s):
have a bunch of furniture and close that added up to the 50 pounds or whatever. It

4 (3m 36s):
was and that language meant that

2 (3m 40s):
African-Americans women new immigrants all were eligible to vote in New Jersey in the late 18th century. And they did we have evidence that's just turned up in the last few months actually of women voting in New Jersey in the late 18th and early 19th centuries.

4 (3m 58s):
We know that they were accepted as voters because there are subsequent voting

2 (4m 2s):
laws the refer to voters as he or she in New Jersey,

4 (4m 7s):
but in 1807 the state rescinded those voting rights

2 (4m 11s):
from African-Americans and

1 (4m 13s):
women really they took it away.

2 (4m 14s):
They took it away and women in New Jersey would not then be voting on the same basis as men until the ratification of the 19th

1 (4m 22s):
Amendment and just to be clear here this situation in New Jersey that was relatively short-lived it was exceptional there. Lot of other states in this new Union who are allowing African-Americans women to

2 (4m 36s):
vote. That's right. And it is emblematic of the history of women's suffrage and suffrage in general in the United States. It shows us what a piecemeal patchy raggedy process. This has been and there are reversals along the way and I think that these are often left out of our understanding of of voting rights and other movements in US history that people get the vote and lose the vote get the vote and lose the vote is absolutely a common theme in the history of voting rights in the United States that a right once gained is not necessarily retained except through

1 (5m 22s):
struggle. And where does the struggle go once women's right to vote is taken away in New Jersey in the early 19th century.

2 (5m 31s):
I would say the next stage in this history is that first half of the nineteenth century and the emergence of these widespread and varied reform movements like the anti-slavery movement like the temperance movement like the moral Reform movement those movements that emerged become so powerful in the early 19th century are really the kind of cauldron out of which women suffragists going to bubble

1 (5m 60s):
and When is the movement sort of born in

2 (6m 2s):
Earnest? It doesn't become an independent women's movement suffrage movement in the u.s. Until after the Civil War say 1860s. But there's a woman's rights movement. There are women's rights conventions that begin in the 1840s. The most famous one is the Seneca Falls Convention of 1848, which is organized by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and some of her other friends and famously attended by Frederick Douglass the great Santini. Every activist and orator one of the issues things that took us awhile to kind of come to grips with is that at Seneca Falls Convention, which is so famous and often cited as the beginning of the women's suffrage movement.

2 (6m 42s):
There's a set of resolutions are adopted by the 300 attendees. We are assembled to protest against a form of

1 (6m 51s):
government existing

4 (6m 53s):
without the consent of the governed

2 (6m 56s):
to declare our right to be free as man is free. Right to be

4 (7m 1s):
represented in the government, which we are taxed to

2 (7m 4s):
support to have such disgraceful laws

4 (7m 8s):
as give man the power to chastise and imprison his

2 (7m 12s):
wife to take the wages, which she earns the property which she inherits and in case of Separation The Children of her love this whole list of

4 (7m 25s):
resolutions and among that list is the

2 (7m 28s):
desire for the enfranchisement. Men to women resolved that is the duty of the women of this

1 (7m 35s):
country to secure to themselves their sacred right to the elective franchise.

4 (7m 43s):
That is the only resolution that

2 (7m 46s):
did not pass unanimously. So that in the beginning suffered has actually not at the top of the list of women's rights activists desires.

1 (7m 59s):
Why is that not at the top of the

2 (8m 0s):
list are things like access to your own wages? I mean, that's at that point in the 1840s married women who worked for wages didn't own their own wages. They belong to their husbands their property any property went to your husband. You didn't you didn't have custody of your children. You couldn't make a will or Sue in your own name because you were a dependent and the law. And those things seemed to have much more immediate consequences and meaning to women's daily lives. Then the

1 (8m 28s):
vote when and how does that begin to change? I

2 (8m 32s):
mean really you get the formation of these independent organizations devoted to women's suffrage beginning in 1869, which is still a really small group but it grows dramatically in the 1880s when the women's Christian Temperance Union comes to support women's

4 (8m 50s):
suffrage.

1 (8m 57s):
So the fight for our right to vote is actually tied to control on

2 (9m 3s):
alcohol. Yeah, because the use of alcohol in a lot of cases is destroying their homes because it leads to domestic violence and in the homes of wage-earning people who don't have much money and often have seasonal jobs. Some women see the Moon as a place where men spend their money and then leave their families hungry in the offseason and

1 (9m 30s):
as the movement grows, what are the essential arguments that are being made

2 (9m 34s):
in the beginning? There's the argument based on Justice. There are some women who make the claim that they're taxed without representation. This is especially true of widows or independent women who have property who have jobs who do own their own wages. And to our tax just like men but they have no say in the government. And the way that their taxes are spent in the 19th century. There are also arguments that because women are different from men. They have a special interest in special skills on issues that have to do with things like schools. And so one of the interesting things that emerged in the 19th century is a movement to enfranchise women only in School Board elections, and one of the earliest of those laws is in Kentucky in He ate because women are associated with the care of children and nurturance of children.

2 (10m 26s):
And so the argument is made look, you know women ought to have say here. And by the time we get to 1900, I think something like half the states have enfranchised some women at least in some elections in School Board elections are the most

1 (10m 41s):
common. So the argument is working on local level before it's working on a national

2 (10m 46s):
level. Yes, absolutely. And it's really important to understanding how political of change actually happens in the United States. Sometimes we claimed that American women won the vote in 1920, but that is so not true millions of American women had the vote before 1920 and millions were still disfranchise after 1920. So the state are in franchising women in the late 19th century and in the early 20th, and those women have full voting rights in 15 states and in 12 other states women are enfranchised before the ratification at least in

1 (11m 26s):
presidential elections. So that

2 (11m 28s):
means in over half of the states women are enfranchised at least in presidential elections before the ratification of the 19th Amendment. And you can just watch as more women are fully active in electoral politics through their state action the number of votes for the federal Amendment increases in Congress and in a way the 19th

1 (11m 54s):
amendment is evidence of women's existing

2 (11m 57s):
political power as well as a generator of more

1 (12m 1s):
of it. After the break the ratification of the 19th Amendment and the long fight for women's suffrage that comes after it. Support for the show today comes from here. Oh, no not whoever it was that stacked all that wood behind Bernie Sanders at the Democratic National Convention yesterday.

1 (12m 44s):
Hero is your medicine cabinet reinvented. They make it simple and easy to make sure you or a loved one is getting the right meds at the right time. Every time the hero pill dispenser sorts all your daily medications for you and delivers them with the push of a button and with the Hero app you can That medication schedules you can get notifications if you miss a dose or if you're running low on pills, you can even share important medical information with your doctors and there's a hero membership that includes the app the pill dispenser and 24/7 support for just a dollar a day and hero is giving us a special offer right now just for today explain listeners head over to Hero health.com / explained and make sure you use the offer code explained to get 50% off their Initiation fee plus 30 day risk-free trial.

1 (13m 33s):
Your morning's afternoons and evenings back with hero $50 off plus a 30 day free trial at hero health.com / explained and use the offer code explained at checkout. Support for the show today comes from the Jordan Harbinger show. If you're looking for another podcast to listen to one that's going to let you into some of the minds of very interesting thinkers and creators. You might want to try this one out the Jordan Harbinger show. Apple named it one of its best in 2018. It's got all sorts of people on Bill Nye.

1 (14m 13s):
The guy behind Tom's Shoes. Also Neal Brennan who was you know, one of the guys who helped Dave Chappelle make Chappelle's Show I believe he's also maybe a co-writer on the movie half-baked. Have you seen half-baked? It's got Jon Stewart in it. There's a great scene where Dave Chappelle like can only spend like eight dollars on a date and they pull up like, you know, like a money counter on the screen and and then it goes down as the day progresses and the date wants to do this and that anyway, the Jordan Harbinger show is loaded with bits of wisdom that you can use to maybe change and improve your life and it's worth checking out. Out if you're looking for a new podcast to check out Harbinger is spelled har bi nger and you can find the Jordan Harbinger show wherever you find your podcast.

1 (15m 15s):
Professor we get to the 20th century. Some women have the right to vote in the United States a lot of women still don't how does the movement change and pick up steam in the 20th

2 (15m 28s):
century? I think the most important change that emerges in early 20th century is the dramatically increased size. and diversity of the movement Itself by the 1910s the women's suffrage movement has become a multiracial multi-ethnic cross-class mass movement African American women Native American women Chinese immigrant as well as Chinese American women LED Tina's and working-class women are all in the struggle along with white and middle class women and they're not making in the case that look we need the vote to help all these other people.

2 (16m 13s):
They say we need the vote for self-protection. The reason that we work under hideous conditions. The reason that our factories are not safe. The reason that we work these god-awful long hours that we are paid hideous wages is because we don't have the vote and they're a publishing newspapers. They're engaging in soapbox beaches are open cars speeches by the time we get to the early 20th century load. They begin to make movies. They publish cookbooks cookbooks a cookbooks that woman's offered to cook book. They have songs that create songs. They write songs. I write plays

1 (16m 49s):
what's in the women's suffrage

2 (16m 51s):
cookbook. Okay, so it's not that they're sort of like ballot biscuits or anything. It's nothing quite like that, but that we went to support suffrage are. Retaining their commitment to certain domestic skills. Women are not going to all leave the kitchen the minute they gain suffrage really look at these fabulous meals that they can put on the

1 (17m 13s):
table sign of the times I suppose. Yeah. Yes absolutely about the songs. Tell me about the songs.

2 (17m 19s):
I wish I could sing you one of the songs. I do big regret that I can't, you know, take my ukulele there and bring it over and sing one of those songs for

4 (17m 25s):
you, but there's some of them are funny. Oh do what can the matter be? Dear, dear. What can the matter be? Oh, dear. What can the matter be women are wanting to vote

2 (17m 38s):
and some of them are quite serious, you know, they're they're patriotic some of the kind of

4 (17m 42s):
religious tone to them. And of course are also

2 (17m 56s):
organizing huge parades are famous ones in New York and DC but their parades all all over the country rallies of all kinds and the tactics the very famous tactics of the suffrage movement in the 1910s is picketing the White House and suffragists were actually the first to picket the white house. Really? Yes.

1 (18m 15s):
I hope they weren't tear gas.

2 (18m 16s):
They were not tear gas, but they were of course some of them were jailed and they were forced fed, and it was pretty ugly force-fed because some of them went on hunger strikes and that generated a lot of very bad press for the Wilson Administration. Fashion and for opponents actually of suffrage

4 (18m 35s):
women have reared all the sons of those Brave women have shared in the food as they gave women have labored your country to save that's why they're wanting to vote. So it's also dear. What can the matter be dear dear? What can the matter be? Oh, dear. What can the matter be when men want every boat?

1 (18m 58s):
Let's get to the moment. We've all been waiting for what does August eighteenth nineteen twenty look like what is it? Like the day this actually happens.

2 (19m 8s):
So it's a totally amazing. So the focus that day is on Tennessee because Tennessee is potentially going to be the 36th state to ratify the Nineteenth Amendment and it took 36 to reach the three quarters of the states to ratify. The Senate has already voted. Yes, but it looks like

4 (19m 28s):
I'm

2 (19m 28s):
not going to be enough votes in the house. And at the last minute a young man named Harry Burns who had said, you know, he's committed to voting against this gets a letter from his mother who says be a good boy Harry be sure to help out the suffragists and on the request of his sainted mother Harry burn votes for ratification. And of course people present go

4 (19m 54s):
wild. Because this means that the 19th amendment is now a part of the US Constitution and is there a tangible change in the country overnight or does it take much longer? It is the case that millions of women did as a result of the 19th Amendment. Become fully enfranchised. It's a huge milestone in American democracy. Just no question

2 (20m 33s):
about that,

4 (20m 34s):
but it was not a complete Victory because millions of women

2 (20m 38s):
were still barred from the polls

4 (20m 40s):
after passage of the 19th Amendment

1 (20m 43s):
who we talking about who's not

2 (20m 45s):
included the language of the amendment was that no state or the federal government could deny the vote on the basis of sex all the women in Puerto. Rico were citizens of the States and they did not win enfranchisement from the 19th Amendment because the territories are not mentioned literate women are in franchise in Puerto Rico in 1929, but it's not until 1935 that all adult Puerto Rican women in Puerto Rico exercise the vote Asian immigrant women also gained nothing from the 19th Amendment because Asians were not eligible to naturalize and so because they were not citizens or allowed to become citizens.

2 (21m 26s):
They also did not benefit from the 19th Amendment and they're not going to benefit until we get the 1952 when all Asian groups are allowed to naturalize. Also Native American women in 1920 when the amendment is ratified, maybe half of Native American women most of whom lived on reservations were not considered citizens of the US and so also gained nothing from the 19th Amendment many many states. Can you deny the vote to Indians living on reservations by claiming that they were Wards of the state or that they weren't really residents of the state. They were residents of the reservation and think it's Utah that continues to explicitly exclude Native Americans from the poles into the 1950s.

2 (22m 13s):
And of course the most famous and the biggest group denied the vote after 1920 were African American women in the South and this is a really important aspect of our story because African American women in those Southern States who went to try to register and were turned away continued to try to register and try to register and they sent protests to the president and they said protest to the Attorney General of the United States. The Department of Justice has Files full of these letters from African American women in the South saying I know I have the right to vote on the basis of the 14th the 15th and the 19th Amendment, but I'm being denied.

2 (22m 55s):
Even a do about it, mr. Chairman

4 (22m 59s):
and to the credentials committee. It was the 31st of all this in 1962 that 18 of US Travel 26 miles to the county courthouse in Indianola to try to register to become first-class citizens. We was met in in the Nola was by policemen

2 (23m 24s):
Mustangs. We probably can. Ooh Hamer as a voting rights activist in the south in the 1960s and the activism over decades and decades results. Of course in the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the 1964 Constitutional Amendment that abolished the poll tax.

4 (23m 43s):
Jail, and put in the book in room. After I was placed in the cell, I began to hear sounds of lick and screams

1 (23m 54s):
so though we're celebrating the hundred year anniversary of women's suffrage in the United States today in truth. The fight took much longer decades longer than than August 18th it 1920 and arguably continues today.

2 (24m 14s):
Absolutely, it continues today and I think that that is such a crucial Point Sean. That is I think one of the lessons of this history is that struggles over women's suffrage and voting rights in general began with the founding of the Republic and continue to this day. This is a central issue within American political culture. It will always be an issue. This is something I think that will never be decided once and for all we will always we

4 (24m 43s):
struggling over this and we need to keep that struggle alive. How about very funny and land it's the land where the women were others where woman is about and poor old man is second hand in the lands where the women where the browser's will always be struggling and thus are forever suffering is that why they

1 (25m 9s):
they called them the suffragettes there's that just a coincidence.

4 (25m 13s):
Yeah, it actually comes

2 (25m 14s):
from a Latin word

4 (25m 15s):
meaning giving consent or voting but the confusion was suffering that is constant. And when I first started teaching for instance and I would say and now yeah, when we started fighting for suffrage, I actually would have students ask why don't women want to suffer more. And when the women were murdered well Professor Muncie. Thank you for the reminder. You're so welcome. Thank you for having me on your show.

4 (25m 56s):
Yeah, happy anniversary. Thank you. Happy anniversary to us ball. Professor Robin Muncie, she teaches history at the University of Maryland. I'm Sean Rama's firm. This is today's fun.