0 (6s):
You

1 (6s):
Ever wonder why they call it the lame duck?

2 (8s):
Apparently it used to be an investment term. Ian Millhiser knows why. So, so yeah, it's a term from the 18th century and a lame duck use to refer to an investor who had defaulted on their debts. And so like the idea was because they have defaulted on their debts, their ability to remain in the market was limited and their powers were diminished. And then that term came to be applied to politicians who, you know, were also on the way out short timer syndrome. Yeah. Ian

1 (43s):
Usually writes about the Supreme court for Vox, but lately he's been looking at the lame duck session, the president's get and wondering whether it's high time, the United States just

2 (53s):
Do away with them. Yeah. So I mean, my beat broadly focuses on legal policy and on the constitution and the U S constitution is a very bizarre and how it handles transitions of power. So two months ago, the American people went to the polls and they said, fairly emphatically. We do not want Donald Trump to be president anymore. And yet here we are more than two months after the election. And Donald Trump is still president and it doesn't have to be that way. You know, provided that we had the votes to amend the constitution. It would be very easy to have a much shorter transition period.

2 (1m 35s):
But as you say,

1 (1m 36s):
Say it it's in the constitution. This is how it's worked from the jump. And this has how the founders envisioned the country working. Why change it?

2 (1m 46s):
Let's talk about what the founders envision, The way that a presidential election was conducted close to the founding of the country is that people would have to travel to wherever the, the election was being held. And that itself could be an ordeal. If you lived many miles from your County seat, the ballots would be gathered in one place. They'd be counted, but there wasn't telephones, there wasn't even telegraphs. So the only way to get word of how many people in your community voted for who was to send someone probably by a horse and buggy to a central location, to tell them, Hey, like, you know, we had this election and 800 people voted for George Washington.

2 (2m 33s):
So people would have to travel by horse and buggy often through swamps as the South, especially, wasn't very developed at this point in time. And then once the state knew who had won the election in that state, they'd have to notify the presidential electors. And so it would have to travel to the presidential electors often across swamps, by a horse and buggy, and then the electors would have to meet and then Congress would have to be, and all of this just took a lot of time when you didn't have any way to communicate quickly when you were traveling on horseback. And when you did it in many parts of the country have like good reliable road.

3 (3m 13s):
So this Daysha

2 (3m 16s):
Describe it right now that doesn't look like what the United States looks like right now. Like we don't need this big, long period that exists to accommodate the fact that it used to take a really long time to conduct an election. You will, because I know you just can't wait, let's talk about what the presidential transition in this lame duck period looks like some, you know, 250 years later in 2021, right? How has this transition gone from, let's say November 7th, when the major media networks and much of the country, the majority of the country realized Donald Trump had lost the election.

2 (3m 57s):
So this has been an unusually active, lame duck period. So it started really the night of the election with Donald Trump, falsely claiming that the election was stolen from him,

3 (4m 12s):
From all of us, from me, from you, from our country, this was a fraudulent election. We've

2 (4m 18s):
Had a rush of corrupt pardons,

3 (4m 21s):
Which is four weeks left. And his presidency president Trump late tonight, granted 15 pardons in five commutations among them full and unconditional pardons for two congressmen who had been convicted on corruption charges and forced to resign.

2 (4m 36s):
We've had a major stimulus bill, a standoff

3 (4m 38s):
Between president Trump and U S lawmakers has ended with word. He has finally signed to the U S COVID relief in government

2 (4m 45s):
Funding bill. And then we had an insurrection and all of this was happening under the auspices of a defeated president and under the auspices of a Senate majority leader, who we now know is about to become the Senate minority leader. Okay. So that was the condensed version. But since this particular lame duck period is the reason you're arguing, you know, the country reconsider the lame duck period, all together. You want to maybe break it down a bit more. Yeah. So I mean, election night was basically election week this year because it took so long to count the ballots. And so people probably remember there was a while early in election night where Donald Trump looked like he was performing very well because a lot of his ballots were counted before the mail-in ballots that overwhelmed, we favored Biden.

2 (5m 39s):
And so if you just looked at the ballot that had already been counted on election night, you might've come away with the misimpression that Donald Trump was winning. And Trump went on TV and decided to feed that misimpression by falsely declaring himself to be the Victor because of the lame duck period. He then had more than two months to feed this myth that the election was somehow stolen for him at a knife. Think that plays a big role in why we solve the insurrection recently, because it was just two months of this unfiltered propaganda. Once Trump seem to accept that he probably wasn't going to stay in office much longer.

2 (6m 22s):
He then started doling out favors to his cronies and specifically doling out pardons to people like Michael Flynn, his former national security advisor, or George Papadopoulos, his former campaign manager. And then we had a big fight over two really important bills. One was an almost $1 trillion stimulus package or the other was the annual legislation that basically authorizes the entire military budget for the next year. And you'll recall Trump vetoed the defense authorization bill, and that Vito had to be overwritten. He threatened to veto the stimulus bill at the very last moment.

2 (7m 5s):
And Republicans who had been defeated in the election got to play an outsize role in deciding what will be in those bills. Because of course they still have a Republican president, even though he had been defeated. And so you had a major legislation being shaped by people who had been voted out of office, and then you had the insurrection and it wasn't just that Donald Trump had spent two months repeating a lie that fueled this insurrection. It was that the participants in that election had two months to plan the thing. And I don't know if that insurrection would have happened if the lame duck period, hadn't given them a huge amount of time to plan for it.

2 (7m 56s):
And so this has been a particularly disastrous lame duck period. And a lot of these disasters I think could have been averted if it wasn't for the fact that this thing is so long,

1 (8m 10s):
I mean, we can assume that the insurrection wasn't the founder's intention, but they did build pardons into the constitution. They did build the ability for the president to veto legislation right into the constitution. W how much of what the outgoing president has done in the past few months is in total violation of let's say, you know, the founder's intent and how much of it is just par for the course on some level. I mean, presidential, pardon, certainly aren't a new thing, right? I mean,

2 (8m 44s):
Well, I went to state out front, nothing that Donald Trump has done, at least none of the things that he's done in exercising, his official powers, his president is unconstitutional. The problem is constitution. You know, the, the problem is that the constitution allows a defeated president to continue to wield power for so long. And so, yes, he does have the power to part, and that is in the constitution. The problem isn't that it is unconstitutional for the president to exercise presidential powers after they're defeated. The problem is that the constitution lets the president exercise these powers and as bad as the Trump transition has been this problem of presidents using their power in very shady ways after they are supposed to leave, office is not a new problem.

0 (9m 36s):
<inaudible>

1 (9m 46s):
Hey, it's, Sean hopefully by now you've made Today, Explained a part of your daily routine and great news. If so, or even if not Vox is bringing you even more crucial daily content with our new Podcast feed box, quick hits. So you can subscribe to Vox quick kits, just like any other podcasts, but each day we'll be dropping a few new episodes, spanning culture, politics, and policy to deliver you the concise yet deep explanations you need and everything from Biden's first, a hundred days in office to the best Netflix binge every morning, you'll wake up two new episodes in your feed, each coming and under 10 minutes and the time it takes you to grab a cup of coffee and breakfast or commute to the couch, you can start your morning more informed, find Vox quick hits in your favorite podcast app, or ask your smart speaker to play the Vox quick hits Podcast

0 (10m 38s):
Thanks.

1 (10m 51s):
Ian I think, you know, the mistakes of the outgoing president in his lame duck period are pretty fresh on everyone's mind, but you wrote an article up on the website Vox dot com. That points too, a few examples throughout history. How many of you guys?

2 (11m 3s):
Yeah, so I mean, before this disastrous transition that we're now finally coming to the end of, I think there were three previous transitions that really just ended catastrophic. Like what's the worst. So the worst transition in American presidential history is the transition from James Buchanan to Abraham Lincoln. This is how the civil war happened. That's pretty bad. Yeah, it was, it was bad. So after Lincoln was elected, Lincoln was from the newly formed Republican party, which at the time was the closest thing that America had to a racial justice party and the Southern slave holding States didn't like that very much. And so after Lincoln's election up before his inauguration, seven States succeeded, why a lot politically paralyzed to Buchanan presided that was made worse by the fact that you can and was pro slavery.

2 (11m 56s):
He gave a, a, a, an address to Congress while this was all going on, where he said, basically, look, I can't do anything about these proceedings States. I can't even secure used the military to secure the us military forts in the South. And so what happened was that the South got this entire lame duck period, and it's worth noting that back then the lame duck period was longer. It went into March the South, got this long lame duck period where they got to set up their government where Southern militias actually invaded many of these U S military Ford's and seized weapons that would later be used to fight a civil war against the norm.

2 (12m 39s):
The ensuing civil war would become known as Buchanan's war. I don't think that the civil war could have been avoided, but if Lincoln had come into office much sooner, he would have potentially been able to secure those forts. He could of gone the civil war more quickly and prevented the cell from consolidating its government. And the war wouldn't necessarily have been as bloody. Okay. So a presidential lame duck that's started a civil war. It's probably hard to beat, but you still flagged a couple more examples. Yeah. I mean, like having started with the civil war, I feel like my next example is going to be a bit of an anticlimax. So the, the 1892 election happens, Grover Cleveland defeats Benjamin Harrison, Benjamin Harrison was not happy that he was defeated.

2 (13m 27s):
He had some economic disagreements with Cleveland. And so Republican newspapers after Cleveland one just started spreading the idea that the markets are going to collapse. Everyone's investments are going to dry up Cleveland's economic policies is going to destroy everything, you know, Boosie, scary tariff. And a lot of investors listened to these Republican newspapers. And there was a panic. The market started collapsing at one point, JP Morgan, the banking Titan went to the lame duck, president Harrison. It says,

0 (14m 1s):
You've got to do something like you've got to reassure people because we're going into a depression

2 (14m 8s):
And Harrison refused to do anything. His treasury secretary said explicitly, look,

0 (14m 14s):
This is just to keep there from being a catastrophe until the Cleveland administration comes in, then it's their problem.

2 (14m 21s):
And the, the, his treasury sector actually spent his last several days in office sitting for his official portrait while the markets were collapsing. So the result was that there was a depression. I don't know if it could've been avoided if Harrison had bothered to do his job in, in that period, but it certainly didn't help. So we've got a civil war and a huge economic downturn. What else rates? Well, we got the great depression. Oh, and even bigger economic downturn, bigger depression. Yeah. So this was, of course the transition from Hoover to Roosevelt and Hoover last in a landslide, largely because people were not happy with his listless response to the depression Roosevelt campaigned on what at the time was completely unprecedented.

2 (15m 10s):
I mean, the type of active government, the regulation that like the, the kind of big federal programs that Roosevelt promised and the new deal were just unprecedented appeared. They were viewed as illegitimate by many of the elites in American society. And one person who viewed them as legitimate was Herbert Hoover. And so rather than trying to say, you know, spending that lame duck period, mitigating the depression, Hoover spent it tried to convince Roosevelt to embrace austerity into abandoned the new deal. It didn't work, but it delayed our ability to respond to the great depression. And it's worth noting that I mentioned before that it used to be that presidential transitions in congressional transitions happened in March wall.

2 (15m 57s):
The Hoover to Roosevelt transition was going on. I think it was so obvious to the country that this long lame duck period that we had back then was untenable that the 20th amendment was ratified and was actually the 20th amendment that shortened the lame duck period to January the 20th amendment. Not to be forgotten here. We have as a country come together before to say this lame duck period is problematic. And yet it has continued to be problematic since then. Yeah. I mean, I, I think that there is several problems that are inherent in any kind of lame duck. Period. One is just that it's anti-democratic, you know, again, Donald Trump was thrown out of office.

2 (16m 39s):
The American people said we do not want this guy to be in charge. So why is he still wielding power? The second problem is that when you've been voted out of office and you know, you don't have to face the voters again, there's no accountability mechanism. And so you tend to see things like corrupt pardons. You know, you, you know, it can be a time where presidents can push unpopular policies because what do they have to lose if they've already been thrown out of office. And then there's another problem, which is that other countries don't know how to conduct diplomacy necessarily with, with a lame duck president in the early 1980s, two senators proposed shortening the lame duck periods that the presidency would turn over a November 20 on Senator Claiborne, Pell from Rhode Island was one of the sponsors of this amendment.

2 (17m 32s):
And one of the reasons that he gave was he pointed to the Iran hostage crisis. And in the late seventies, in the early eighties, we continue to face a grave situation in Iran where our embassy has been seeing it. And more than 60 American citizens continue to be held as hostages while this was going on, president Carter was defeated. And the problem was that Carter couldn't effectively negotiate with the Iranians to free these hostages because Carter was on his way out. And like, Ron didn't even have any way of knowing whether they could trust Carter's access or to keep a deal that they struck with Carter and Reagan couldn't negotiate with the Iranians because Reagan wasn't president yet.

2 (18m 19s):
So he wasn't authorized to speak on behalf of the United States. So you had this period where there was a foreign policy crisis going on, and there was no one person who was really empowered to speak on behalf of this country

4 (18m 34s):
Day, one of Ronald Reagan's presidency and day one, the freedom for 52 Americans. So thousands of miles apart, these two historic events moved almost on parallel tracks today. The new president had not been an office an hour when the former hostages became free men and women, a gang.

2 (18m 51s):
Okay. And so one of the arguments that Senator Powell raise is, look, you just can't have that for the sake of our own national security. Other nations need to know who to talk to. If they want to speak to someone who speaks on behalf of the United States, how do other countries do this? Most of our peer nations have much quicker transitions partially because they have constitutions that weren't written in the horse and buggy era. So let's start by talking about our neighbor to the North Canada last had a transition of power where power shifted from one party to another in 2015. And from the day that Justin Trudeau's liberal party won that election until the day that Justin Trudeau was sworn in, I was a little over two weeks for them to get from their election to the completion of the transition period.

2 (19m 42s):
And that's actually fairly long compared to other countries. India took 10 days for its transfer of power. The last time they had a transfer from one party to another, Japan also took 10 France when Emanuel McCrone was elected president, he became president seven days later, and Britain have the nations I've looked at, has done this to the fastest Britain when the Tories beat the incumbent labor government in 2010. That's the last time that there was a, a, a transfer of a partisan power and great Britain. David Carmen was sworn in as prime minister five days after the election.

2 (20m 22s):
So, you know, modern democracies don't find it difficult to do a quick transitions. I don't think that we could do our transition instantaneously. I mean, there, there's still some time necessary to count the votes and to certify the, the election's and that, you know, especially in a decentralized system where you have 50 different States all with their own process, maybe that takes two weeks. I mean, maybe we need full two weeks. Maybe we can't do it as fast as England does it, or as fast as India does it, but there's no reason why we need to spend two and a half months on this. You know, we have known for sure that Joe Biden was the president elect to the United States for more than two months.

2 (21m 5s):
Now you make a compelling case in, but thinking about all of the things on the president elect Biden's agenda, or is there any momentum or, you know, we'll for abolishing the lame duck? Well, I mean, I think realistically, there's a lot of things that are higher on the priority list right now. The Senate has to confirm Biden's cabinet by it and just proposed a nearly $2 trillion stimulus bill. There's an impeachment trial coming up. So like there are a lot of items on the list and there also, isn't going to be another presidential transition for at least another four years. So we've got time to deal with this, but I hope that we make the choice to fix this problem.

2 (21m 47s):
It's very hard to amend the constitution, but I don't see a reason why either party should oppose this, you know, Democrats, they've just seen what can go wrong. If you have a long transition and Republicans, like they have no way of knowing that they would be hurt by it. They could be helped by it. I mean, if they push through an amendment right now that shortens the transition period, the biggest loser out of that amendment is going to be Joe Biden, because it's got to cut two months off of his term. Maybe that's enough for Republicans to say that, you know, we like that enough, that, that, that we'll do the right thing here. So, you know, I don't know that there is yet been a movement to get rid of this long lame duck period, but we have seen how it can go disastrously wrong.

2 (22m 39s):
And I hope that a movement like that forms. So there is no need to spend this long waiting for a new president to be sworn in every day.

0 (22m 48s):
Yeah.

2 (22m 57s):
Or you can read Ian's piece about the lame duck and why he thinks it's time to shorten it even further over at Vox dot com I'm Sean Ramez from it's Today Explained

0 (23m 42s):
Hi,

2 (23m 43s):
I'm Avery. Truffleman the host of the cut a podcast from New York

5 (23m 46s):
Magazine and the Vox media podcast.

0 (23m 48s):
Network

5 (23m 52s):
Every Wednesday, we work to explore important provocative ideas about the world around us. So far, we've discussed what it's like to move back into your parents' house and why that's actually an incredible and empowering thing to do. We've also talked about what it means to be a radical in society, expects you to be practical and pragmatic. We'd love for you to join us, subscribe to the cut in your favorite podcast app to get new episodes

0 (24m 17s):
Each week.