1 (3s):
Today is a hyperbole of suggest, a very solid moment,

2 (9s):
Just a few hours. After the Supreme court of the United States overturned Roe V. Wade, president Biden addressed the nation. You wanted to talk about pills.

1 (20s):
Some states are saying that they'll try to ban or severely restrict access to these medications.

2 (26s):
He wanted to make sure people knew he would fight for access to abortion pills,

1 (32s):
But extremist governors and state legislators are looking to block the mail or search the person's medicine cabinet or control a woman's actions by tracking data on her apps, she uses are wrong and extreme and out of touch with the majority of Americans

2 (50s):
Head until they explained abortion pills, how they work, how to get them and the battle over access

Google (1m 0s):
For over 20 years, Google has been helping protect Americans from cybersecurity threats, from turning two-step verification on by default for 150 million people, which adds an additional layer of account security with a single tap to protecting new sites and human rights organizations with project shield. Google is building advanced technologies that raise the bar for the entire industry and help make the whole internet safer for everyone. Learn more@safety.google,

BalanceUS (1m 29s):
The Coca-Cola company, Keurig Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold contain zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more.

2 (1m 51s):
Rachel Cohen, senior policy reporter at Vox. The Supreme court overturned Roe on Friday. That means millions of people in America no longer have access to a clinic that can provide a safe, legal abortion. What are those people's options? Other than say, getting on a plane, getting in a car and driving to a state that will provide an abortion.

5 (2m 15s):
So the biggest alternative option for people who no longer have in-person clinic care, and to be clear, there are still clinics open, but more states are moving to ban abortion entirely. Now that rose overturned, the big sort of alternative option is what's known as medication abortion. These are two drugs one's called Mifepristone and the other scholars misoprostol

6 (2m 43s):
My provider told me that I could take MiFID pracs or MiFi on the first day. Then about 24 to 48 hours later, I would take the second medicine, the four misoprostol pills

5 (2m 56s):
You're effectively inducing a miscarriage. You're ending your pregnancy by producing the same physical experience as having a miscarriage

6 (3m 3s):
Mithi ends up pregnancy by blocking progesterone. The second pill makes the uterus contract like it does during a period and the pregnancy gets pushed out of the body.

2 (3m 13s):
Okay. So MiFID per stone and misoprostol are these kind of like plan B like the morning after pill situation,

5 (3m 20s):
They're not the same. It's important to understand the difference plan B in the morning after pill is what we call emergency contraception. And those prevent a pregnancy MiFIR Preston and misoprostol and an early stage pregnancy. So that's, that's the difference.

2 (3m 36s):
How often are Americans using these pills?

5 (3m 39s):
They now account for more than half of all us abortion. And that's for a couple of reasons. One is that they can be a lot cheaper than getting in-person abortion care. They can be a lot more accessible. You can get them in the mail. So if you live really far from a clinic, you can get it that way. And some people just prefer to do the whole thing in the comfort of their own home.

2 (4m 4s):
What kind of abortions are these useful for

5 (4m 7s):
The drugs are recommended to be used in the first 10 to 12 weeks of her pregnancy? So that's the first trimester, but I think it's also important to know that over 90% of abortions do occur in the first trimester. You know, it overlaps well when you can use the pills safely also overlaps when most abortions happen,

2 (4m 29s):
Are these pills safe?

5 (4m 31s):
They're very safe. Decades of research has shown that it's a safe way to end a pregnancy with very little risk of complications, less than 0.4% of patients required. Hospitalization. According to the Guttmacher Institute, the national academies of sciences has also affirmed it as a very safe method to end a pregnancy. So, you know, as long as you take it, sort of within the recommended time of first 10 to 12 weeks of a pregnancy for the vast majority of people, not everyone, but for most people, it's a very safe option.

2 (5m 3s):
How long have MiFID Prestone and misoprostol been around?

5 (5m 7s):
So misoprostol has been around since the early 1970s it's used for all sorts of things. It was first developed in the U S to treat stomach ulcers. It's sold over the counter all over the world for a lot of things. It's also used to manage miscarriages. The history of learning to use these pills was in the late 1980s and early 1990s in Brazil. They learned sort of how to use these pills to induce abortions because it was illegal in Brazil and they couldn't do it in a hospital, you know, in other formal setting the other drug, if the Kristen that was first approved in the U S by the FDA in 2000. So it's been legal for over two decades. There was another generic version of it approved in 2019.

5 (5m 50s):
So these drugs have been around and, but they're more highly regulated in the U S than, than even in other countries.

2 (5m 57s):
Why is one more regulated than the other?

5 (5m 60s):
No one has been around for a longer time and end use for just a lot of other things. There's a lot of expert opinion that these drugs are over highly regulated, especially in the U S you know, there's lower risk of complications for these drugs, you know, from misused them like Viagra or Tylenol or penicillin. So there's definitely a lot of people in the U S experts who say we should be making these easier for people to access there, you know, as safe to use as other drugs we make accessible, but that's where politics comes into play.

2 (6m 30s):
You mentioned that some countries have these pills available over the counter, does the United States,

5 (6m 35s):
You can't get them over the counter. And, you know, in fact, before COVID, we had rules that, you know, they literally had to be dispensed in the presence of, of a physician. There's been a lot of changes over the last two years first because of COVID. And then just because of the Biden administration, since the pandemic, the FDA has allowed abortion pills to be dispensed via the mail to people who need it. Although there are still states that have bans on getting it by mail.

7 (7m 3s):
Texas is one of 19 states that ban abortion visits through telemedicine pro-choice groups believe several other states may soon follow,

5 (7m 11s):
But at least in more liberal states that are friendlier to abortion access, you now can get the necessary recommended dosages without going into a clinic physically,

2 (7m 25s):
How much do these pills cost?

5 (7m 26s):
It can vary vary by your state, you know, in some states it could be covered by your insurance. If you have insurance that covers abortion care US-based providers, it's generally a couple hundred dollars. There is also a European based provider that you can order from that offers it for $150. I think the important sort of takeaway to know about medication abortion is that it is generally a hundreds of dollars cheaper than in-person surgical abortion, because, you know, you're not having to pay for a more expensive procedure and you generally don't need to pay for travel and lodging, and some states have waiting periods.

5 (8m 7s):
And so it's not the right answer for everyone, but there are definitely some economic advantages to it

2 (8m 13s):
Since they're not like wildly expensive. I wonder if people keep them around just in case like in the medicine cabinet, along with everything else, or do you think that might start happening more now?

5 (8m 28s):
Yeah. So I actually wrote a story about this last week. This is an idea it hasn't gone mainstream yet, but there are more reproductive health experts that are saying, we do need to be talking about this option more given what we know about the safety of using the pills and given what we know about the coming restrictions we're going to have, Of course not everybody can afford to pay $150 upfront to a backup option. And I should say the shelf life of these pills misoprostol has about a two year shelf life Mifepristone has about a five-year shelf life. For some people paying $150 to have kind of like a backup option in case you have an unplanned pregnancy and your home is a good option, and it can be easier for some people to budget $150 in advance than have to scrounge up hundreds of dollars in the moment.

5 (9m 19s):
If they realize they're pregnant and you don't have a time crunch for other people that wouldn't make sense, it's unlikely to be covered by insurance and advance. I think to your question, it is an option that reproductive health experts are saying, we should be talking about this more, start a conversation with your provider. If you live in a state, like for example, in Texas, they made it illegal to get pills. After seven weeks of pregnancy, even though the FDA has studied is safe, you know, through 10 weeks and other international health organizations say it's safe through 12 weeks. So if you live in a state where you can't order pills after seven weeks, but maybe you don't even realize you're pregnant until you're eight weeks pregnant, then having the pills already at home would be a good option.

5 (10m 4s):
In that case,

2 (10m 6s):
It sounds like there's already a fight over these pills. And my guess is there's about to be a lot more.

5 (10m 11s):
That is very accurate.

2 (10m 18s):
Rachel Cohen returns in a minute on today explained

Harken Chardonnay (10m 39s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by Harkin Chardonnay. Hi, I'm Amanda an audio engineer here at box creative. I enjoy wine. And now that it's warming up, I want something I can serve that goes with the weather. So I called up an expert to help me make sense of the wine. I like now to find more ISIS, Daniel who calls herself, Millennials, Psalm, and I am a summer yay, wine content, creator, and wine influencer ISIS. What can you tell me about my current favorite wine Chardonnay? Chardonnay is special because no matter what your pallet is, there is an example of that in a Chardonnay. So you have that buttercream cheat, and maybe you're getting some Oak where you have the Nella. Chardonnay is the best answer to me. When you're talking about having lobster dishes, shell, fish, dishes, anything that you want to add butter to pastas, things like that. Definitely a buttery Chardonnay will be a great fit for that dish, Oak butter, vanilla. Got it. So is that what I asked for at a restaurant Somalis make me nervous. So if you've had a wine from home that you are looking for at a restaurant, describe it. I had a Chardonnay and it tastes like buttercream cheese. It also had tropical notes because when you are able to bring those details, your som will be able to provide a wine that is similar. If not almost exact, if it's going to be the same wine, you never know. Right? A great place to start, just ask for a harken barrel fermented Chardonnay from California. Parking goes the extra step with a hundred percent barrel fermentation to create its creamy texture and rich flavors. Learn more and find a bottle of harken near you@hearkenwine.com.

Bleecker Street (12m 21s):
This podcast is supported by Bleecker street, presenting the upcoming film, Mr. Malcolm's list. It's 18, 18, and London's most eligible bachelor. Jeremy Malcolm has a list of requirements for a bride after failing to make the cut. Julia fissile weight seeks revenge by convincing her friend Selena Dalton to play the role of his ideal match. But as Selena starts having feelings of her own for Mr. Malcolm getting even starts getting complicated, starring free Pinto shall be dura. Sue Oliver, Jackson Cohen, and Ashley Park with Zoe, Ashton and Theo James, Mr. Malcolm's list. Now playing only in theaters,

2 (13m 11s):
I explained Rachel Cohen box with, with row overturned. Abortion pills seemed like a new battleground between those who want people to be able to access abortion. And those who don't. What's the conversation been like around these pills since Friday

5 (13m 26s):
In the last few days, pills have, have been coming up a lot by didn't give a speech on Friday saying he was going to work to make sure that these pills remain available. Nationwide attorney general, Merrick Garland said he was going to use the powers of the justice department to crack down on states trying to ban medication abortion. I think a really big question that we don't have clear answers here was is how these battles between the federal government and the states are gonna play out when there's no longer a constitutional right to abortion. How can states ban medicine that the FDA has approved? What rights do states have to set these rules? If it's legal in other states, these are all really unchartered questions that are going to be shaking out in the post-war era.

2 (14m 9s):
Do we know if state governments in, in states where abortion is now illegal or about to be illegal can go after people who obtain and use these pills.

5 (14m 20s):
This creates a lot of really complex new questions. How we both obtain and provide abortions has changed a lot since 1973, thanks to tele-health medicine, thanks to medication abortion, thanks to mail order pharmacies. So for example, while laws around telemedicine generally defer to the location of the patient. If you're a provider in New Jersey where abortion is legal, could you face criminal penalty for mailing pills, to patient who lives in a state where abortion is illegal, if the patient traveled to New Jersey for their appointment with you, or what if the pills were sent to an address in a liberal state like Delaware, and then forwarded on through the mail to Texas where it's illegal, either by friend or a mail forwarding service, these are sort of all these questions that it's not clear.

5 (15m 16s):
Who's going to have jurisdiction over which date and, you know, aggressive prosecutors, people think might be sort of eager to test the limits of the laws of their states.

2 (15m 30s):
Yeah, it kinda makes me wonder in the Texas case, if like someone could Sue the United States postal service for delivering these pills to someone,

5 (15m 38s):
Right. I think it's important to sort of point out that the anti-abortion movements goal is not to have a patchwork of states that are abortion restrictive and, and other states where you can get abortion. Like they want to make abortion illegal and inaccessible everywhere, nationwide. That is the end goal. And so in this new post era, there's going to be efforts to sort of push the limits of how state restrictions can spread into other states. There's going to be efforts to see, okay, can I go after a provider in New Jersey who gave an abortion to, you know, a woman in my state, we don't know yet how those efforts are going to shake out.

2 (16m 20s):
Have we seen any efforts to police abortion pills and access to them already?

5 (16m 26s):
Yeah. So a majority of states already have, you know, some sort of restriction on medication abortion, but there are no states that have banned the medication outright. And there's a lot of questions about like, whether that would be legal since it's an FDA approved drugs. There's a lot of talk now about kind of trying to do that, especially as now states just ban abortion outright up to this moment. Most restrictions on medication, abortion have been around like how you can get it. Do you have to get it in person? Does it have to be dispensed by a physician? Can it be sent through the mail at what week? You know, Texas last year, Texas passed a new law saying that you can't get medication abortion after seven weeks in a pregnancy, even though the FDA has approved it up through 10, I'm sure some states are going to try to just ban it outright.

5 (17m 19s):
Other states are just going to try to keep chipping away to make it harder and harder to access. But the flip side and the sort of the upside is that it's going to be really, really difficult for them to police. Now that these pills can be mailed. People will be taking on new risks for each other, but there's going to be an underground passageway of these pills. And that's just a reality that couldn't and didn't exist before.

2 (17m 44s):
Can pro-abortion states do anything to protect abortion providers, people traveling to their states to seek care.

5 (17m 53s):
So what we are seeing now in the past couple of months, there has been a new effort by democratic controlled states to pass what they're calling shield laws, basically different laws to try to protect providers from out of state prosecution, from out of state complaints. There's all these different ways that if you get too many complaints and you're a medical health provider, then your insurance costs go up. You can lose your license. If you have too many different complaints, there's all these different ways that you can get harassed, or it can make it too difficult to provide the care. So blue states are looking at ways to kind of help shield providers and their states from that kind of harassment or intimidation or legal prosecution.

5 (18m 38s):
It is an open question though, right now about whether or not these providers can be held liable for certain harms that red states might allege. I think another important question is like, to what extent does a prosecutor in Alabama have? What powers do they have to actually make a doctor in New York show up at court? If the doctor refuses to participate. And we don't really know

2 (19m 5s):
How are the people who live in states with strict abortion bands, who aren't traveling across state lines, typically getting these pills,

5 (19m 16s):
People living in those states that have restrictions. A lot of them are turning to this nonprofit based in Europe called eight axis.

10 (19m 28s):
We have a unique opportunity with Dr. Gompertz being in Europe that we're able to provide tele-health abortion to all 50 states.

5 (19m 37s):
So eight access was founded in 2018 by physician and abortion provider named Rebecca Gumpert. She has been providing abortion around the world for several decades.

11 (19m 48s):
I will start now talking a little bit about our work and it will start with the work of women on waves and women and waves was founded 20 years ago. And the idea was that if you have a ship, then you can go to a country where abortion is illegal and you can take women outside international waters because the local criminal laws don't apply anymore,

5 (20m 10s):
But she actually avoided helping out the U S because unlike many other countries we will up until Friday had a constitutional right to abortion. Obviously access was scattered in the U S but Dr. Gompertz had, had sort of dedicated her career to helping women access abortion pills in states where it was just purely illegal in 2018, she founded eight access because after Trump was elected, people were, were giving so many requests for help.

12 (20m 39s):
2018. I have counseled around $11,000 a month. And these, I provided the description for 2000.

5 (20m 49s):
And so her whole basically model is that if you live in one of these states, that has restrictions on medication abortion, well, it's not illegal for her based in Austria to dispense the pills. So you can put in a request to read access. And basically even though Alabama or Texas or prosecutors in Georgia, don't want Dr. Conference to be sending pills to people living in their states. She's kind of out of their jurisdiction of the law.

13 (21m 20s):
The drug regulator in America has told you to stop, will you,

12 (21m 26s):
As a doctor, I have the obligation to, to care for patients that reach out to me and that need my help. And the FDA has no say over my medical practice. So as long as I can, can help him and stop.

2 (21m 48s):
And if you're not going with this group aid access based out of Austria, are there other places on the internet, are there shady corners on the dark web where you can find these kinds of pills?

5 (21m 59s):
So, you know, I think it is really important to like get vetted medication, you know, so this organization called plan C pills. They do a really good job of finding places where you can get safe medication abortion online. I mean, people are going to resort to lots of different methods. We've already seen reports of people crossing into Mexico to get misoprostol where you can get it over the counter. But I would say you definitely want to be careful about what websites you order and make sure that the online pharmacies are vetted.

2 (22m 27s):
And I guess in addition to vetting these pills, the other question is privacy, especially when so much of this is happening online, there's been a lot of concern here about how much your data is going to be tracked when you try to secure an abortion online. Do we have any idea how that pertains to pills?

5 (22m 45s):
Yeah. I mean, this is a really important question. This is a huge difference from pre-Roe times, we just didn't have all of this sort of tracking data technology. You know, there, there was sort of a lot of media attention on things like period tracking apps and stuff like that. But what a lot of digital security experts say is really kind of some of the biggest vulnerabilities that people face is like text messages or emails or things that just like basic things, not even just your internet search history, although that is something to be mindful of. I would say right now there's a couple of things. The first one is that like, yes, you should be mindful about your internet searches. And so on.

5 (23m 26s):
Especially if you're thinking about potentially trying to bypass a restriction or figure out a legal loophole, like you, you want to be careful kind of what you're saying and what you're doing that on a lot of experts recommend using signal, which is an encrypted messaging app, et cetera. I think the bigger point is all of these concerns, point to the need for the federal government to follow the steps of other countries and pass stronger consumer protection, digital privacy laws. Like we shouldn't be so scared of criminal prosecution for just searching basic questions about healthcare on the internet,

2 (23m 59s):
You know, and talking about this trigger band situation on the show yesterday, our guests called the current status of abortion in the United States chaos. And now talking to you about the abortion pill situation in the United States, it just feels even more chaotic. Should we just be bracing ourselves for this day, luge of legal battles for the next few years?

5 (24m 22s):
I think we should. I think not just legal battles, but there's going to be new tactics of resistance and fighting back both politically and through activism. I think the only thing that we can really say for sure is that we are not just returning to a pre 1973 pre Roe V. Wade time. Many anti-abortion activists and conservative legal scholars have sort of long said that if we just overturn Roe V Wade, then we're going to have this simpler, legal landscape. We're going to kind of free the courts from this abortion umpiring business. As justice Scalia said, you know, back in the 1990s, this idea that we'll just let states decide, but that's really just not going to happen.

5 (25m 3s):
We're going to have a much more chaotic landscape. And we're probably going to have this all wind up back at the Supreme court again, to weigh back in on, on these questions about out-of-state prosecutions and what, and what rights states have to regulate conduct of their own citizens.

2 (25m 19s):
So you're saying this is going to be a total shit shop,

5 (25m 21s):
Unfortunately. Yeah, probably

2 (25m 38s):
Rachel Cohen box.com. Our show today was produced by miles Bryan edited by Matthew Collette fact-checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by a FIM Shapiro. The rest of the today explained team includes Paul mousey, Halima Shaw Avishai artsy, Hottie, Milwaukee, D Victoria Chamberlin, and my cohost Noel king extra help this week from John errands. Our audio fellow is Tory Domingas. Our supervising producer is Amina Alsada. Vox is VP of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder, and now I'm Hassenfeld. I'm Sean Rama's from today explained as part of the box media podcast network. And we're on the radio in partnership with w NYC