0 (1s):
This summer when we all got the news that Roe v. Wade had just been overturned by the Supreme Court, my first thought was to call it Jane.

1 (10s):
Hello.

0 (11s):
I asked her if she had heard the news.

2 (13s):
What news

0 (15s):
This Jane had fought for women's rights in the 1960s, equal pay childcare and the right to choose the right to have an abortion. She helped women get illegal abortions in Chicago in the late 1960s, early seventies before Roe v. Wade. But on that faithful Friday this summer, I was the one who told her Roe v. Wade had been overturned.

2 (38s):
Women are still gonna have abortions. That's not gonna change anything. That's not gonna change a damn thing.

0 (44s):
I'm Sean Ramos. My conversation with the Jane is coming up on today's plane.

4 (1m 0s):
36 trillion were lost in stocks and bonds this year, but in the art market, the average piece is selling for 26% more at auction than last year. Masterworks lets you invest in fine art from legends like Picasso and Banksy in their last three sales resulted in 13, 17, and 21% net returns to investors. Just go to masterworks.com and use promo code Vox. That's masterworks.com promo code Vox. See important regulation A disclosures@masterworks.com slash cd.

5 (1m 37s):
Support for this podcast comes from Nerd Wallet. With so many options out there, trying to pick out the right credit card for you can make your head spin. Whether it's a cash back card with rewards for dining or a travel card for your next trip, nerd Wallet is here to help you make smart decisions. Nerd wallet's team of nerds can help you narrow down your options with side-by-side comparisons of top credit cards, objective ratings and reviews, and tons of expertise ready to make a financial decision. Compare and find top cash back, credit cards, savings accounts, and more@nerdwallet.com. Nerd wallet, the smartest decision for all your financial decisions.

3 (2m 23s):
Sorry,

6 (2m 25s):
I don't know if you're a shoe on or a shoe off household.

2 (2m 27s):
That is some kind of bike. Thank you. Oh, that's a beautiful piece of equipment. Thank

0 (2m 33s):
You. It's a, the first thing you need to know about this, Jane, is that her name isn't actually Jane, it's Eleanor.

2 (2m 39s):
I'm Eleanor Oliver. I live in Northwest Washington and, and what more do you wanna know about me?

0 (2m 48s):
But Eleanor is one of the Janes, this group of women that helped other women get safe illegal abortions in Chicago in the late 1960s and early seventies before Roe v. Wade. And the Friday, this summer, the Supreme Court overturned Roe. Almost 50 years later, I showed up at our apartment to talk. We thought we'd bring you that conversation again today as it really helped us wrap our heads around one of the biggest developments of the year. What did you make of it when you heard it?

2 (3m 17s):
I'm still stewing over it, but you know, women are still gonna have abortions. That's not gonna change anything. That's not gonna change a damn thing. Women are still gonna have abortions, except they won't have the security of knowing that it will be safe, that it'll be medically safe, socially safe. You know that the person providing the abortion won't take advantage of them in other ways, which was one of the major things years ago.

0 (3m 48s):
I asked Eleanor to tell me about years ago.

2 (3m 53s):
Well, my husband was doing graduate work at the University of Chicago and I was looking for something to do. It was 1968 and a lot of stuff was going on.

7 (4m 5s):
There were anti-war demonstrations on college campuses and in cities from Los Angeles to Washington.

8 (4m 11s):
NBC News is learned. The National Space Agency has decided the next Apollo flight will go to the moon. It'll not land, but a crew of three men inside their spacecraft will circle the moon about 60 miles from it and then return to the

9 (4m 26s):
Earth. That means dignity means we are gonna walk side by side with you, walk through you. We're gonna be with dignity and integrity. We don't want any more than you have, and we're not gonna accept any less than you have. That's my belt.

10 (4m 47s):
I have some very sad news for all of you. And that is that Martin Luther King was shot and was killed tonight. Memphis Martin Luther King dedicated his life to love and to justice between fellow human beings. He died in the cause of that effort.

11 (5m 15s):
Ladies and gentlemen, we've kept the air on because we've heard an alarming report that Robert Kennedy was shot in that ballroom at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles.

2 (5m 26s):
We had a consciousness raising group, group of women, and one of the things we got really hung up on was abortion. And we went from consciousness raising to helping other women find safe, legal, illegal, actually affordable abortions,

0 (5m 44s):
Safe and affordable. In contrast to the status quo.

2 (5m 48s):
Most of the young women of childbearing age have no idea what it was like to be pressured into having sex and then getting pregnant and then having no way of dealing with the pregnancy.

0 (6m 4s):
I asked Eleanor how these women got abortions back in the day before Roe v. Wade.

2 (6m 10s):
Well, you pick out the people you, you know, that you think might have connections that are kind of a little bit savvy, that know people that maybe you wouldn't possibly know because you were just a college kid. And you, you just ask, you say, do you know any place where I can have an abortion, where I can get an abortion? I need, I need abortion. You would probably go to somebody's apartment or a motel and it certainly wouldn't be in the chias part of town unless you were paying for the chias part of town.

2 (6m 53s):
Then you would go to a nice doctor's office and even then, I mean he might have a white coat on and he might have an MD shield on his door. He might have the wall hung with degrees from medical schools. But you had, you weren't gonna, you weren't gonna check out to see whether he really was an MD or not. You wanted that. You wanted that abortion and, and he would give it to me right there in the office.

0 (7m 20s):
As Eleanor tells it, this was kind of the best case scenario. You could go to the mob and try and get an abortion. They might put you in touch with a shady doctor. They might put you in touch with a good doctor. The experience would vary greatly based on how much money you had in your pocket. And if you wanted the Cadillac abortion, the price was steep.

2 (7m 39s):
Five, anywhere from between 500 and a thousand dollars in 1968. Some of them were being sold a bill of goods. Many of them spent a lot of money on pills that were supposed to cause a spontaneous abortion, but probably didn't. And some of them were being left to bleed to death.

0 (8m 0s):
And this is where she and her friends thought they could make a difference.

2 (8m 4s):
We were basically white, middle class college educated women and we were objecting to the Vietnam War and we were going on marches and one thing and another. And then we sort of got together on women's issues and there were a lot of women's issues. Equal pay for equal work childcare and, and that, and you know, there's still the same issues.

0 (8m 27s):
They wanted to up their involvement. Instead of just talking and protesting, let's do something, let's start providing women with illegal abortions.

2 (8m 37s):
This was Chicago. You could do anything in Chicago as long as you weren't making outrageous amounts of money and you weren't hurting anybody. Hmm. And the police left you alone because they had girlfriends that got pregnant. They had wives who already had three children and didn't want anymore. They had mouths to feed.

0 (9m 0s):
Do you start advertising it? How do you do that?

2 (9m 4s):
We actually have a brochure and I have a copy of the brochure.

0 (9m 9s):
Do you have

2 (9m 10s):
It? Yeah. You wanna see it?

0 (9m 11s):
Can I see it? Yeah, sure. Let's see it.

2 (9m 14s):
Yeah, it's, when you go to my bedroom, there's a picture on the opposite wall of the Jane poster that we, that we marched under for the Women's March on Washington. And just bring the whole, bring the whole picture in cuz that's got it taped on the back. Thank you. The

0 (9m 38s):
Two pieces.

2 (9m 39s):
Oh, there it is. All right. This is the brochure. This is, this is how dumb we are. We would run these off. This was runoff on a, a resistance press. I had a, a printing press set up in the basement of an old, an old house on the campus of, of the University of Chicago. And he was down there all day long running stuff. Car check, check. We must have printed millions in these things.

0 (10m 10s):
Okay, let's see, what's the title there?

2 (10m 13s):
Abortion. A Woman's Decision. A woman's right. And there's a, the whole philosophy,

0 (10m 19s):
A lot of pros.

2 (10m 21s):
Yeah. And here,

0 (10m 22s):
Not a lot of graphics, just the text.

2 (10m 24s):
It's just an eight and a half by 11 inch piece of paper folded in into four sides. And here it is, Chicago Women's Liberation Union. And there's their address, the abortion counseling service.

0 (10m 36s):
That was the official name. Abortion counseling service. But everyone came to know them by another. There

2 (10m 44s):
Were no cell phones in those days. There were just landlines. So we were meeting in my house and I said, well, you can use our phone, but you know, I don't wanna have our personal calls get mixed up with the service calls. So why don't we say, call this number and ask for Jane. And I didn't know anybody named Jane. And I thought nobody was named Jane anymore. Six four three three eight four four.

0 (11m 18s):
Who picked up the phone?

2 (11m 20s):
Usually I did.

0 (11m 22s):
It was you.

2 (11m 23s):
Well, my husband, if my husband was home alone, he would pick it up cuz he was home all day working on his, on his dissertation.

0 (11m 29s):
You're saying that was your phone

2 (11m 31s):
Number? That was my phone number. That was our phone number. Yeah. That was, that was in our apartment for all you folks in Chicago. 5,700 block of Kimbark Street.

0 (11m 40s):
So you handed out, it sounds like tons of these things in Chicago,

2 (11m 44s):
Whenever we had a speak out on a woman's issue, we brought along a whole stack of them. We had stacks of these in the, in the dormitories. There were several rather liberal churches. Oh. So we had a little stack of them in the north of the church.

0 (11m 59s):
And so was your phone ringing all day? Or how often did you get calls?

2 (12m 3s):
Oh, we got a lot of calls. Well, not at first. It took a while for things to get picked to pick up. And if you pick it up and they asked for Len or Eleanor, well, we knew it was a personal call. Or if they said, I'd like to speak with Jane, please, I'll take your name and number and I'll have her call you, or I'll have one of her contacts call you. And then we would write those down on three by five cards. We would have a meeting, we would pass out these three by five cards. And I would take, you know, people that I thought I could counsel or people that were nearby or people that I could meet with or could relate to.

2 (12m 45s):
One of them was a police woman from Chicago. Hmm. I, I took a lot of the middle aged women because I was one of the older, older counselors and, and I was married and a lot of the counselors were, were graduate students and, and undergraduate students. Everybody took people that they thought they could tell, you know, although this person lives in my dorm or, or, or I don't wanna do this person because I, I know her and I don't think she wants me to know that. Yeah. That kind of thing, you know? I see. And how, and, and they had to trust us. We had an abortionist.

2 (13m 26s):
We knew he was not a real doctor. He was just a nice guy. And he, I, Mike, Mike was his name. I think he probably learned how to perform abortions either as a medic in the military. There were a lot of people, I guess that needed abortions or who had girlfriends who needed abortions when, when they were in the military. I don't know. I never been in the military.

0 (13m 54s):
How many years does this go on for?

2 (13m 57s):
We left Chicago in 1972, early 1972. And the day we drove out of Chicago was a Saturday, I believe. Seems to me it was a Saturday. Maybe it wasn't. They were, they were raided and busted. Hmm. So

0 (14m 16s):
By whom? This, by the police. Sorry, you

2 (14m 19s):
Mean by the police?

0 (14m 19s):
Because the abortion counseling service that Jane's right. Were raided and busted

2 (14m 24s):
Because somebody complained. And the police, they didn't bother them because they, we weren't hurting anybody. We weren't hurting anybody. We weren't making loads of money off of people. And they wanted us around because they probably might have needed us too. You never knew. But somebody's sister-in-law was getting an abortion and they found that immoral or whatever. They took it upon themselves to complain to the police. And with a complaint the police had to act. So the police raided the place that all this was happening. And my husband and I were driving out Stony Island Avenue to the interstate to come to Washington.

2 (15m 12s):
And for the longest time, I had the biggest guilt complex about that.

0 (15m 18s):
Because your friends got arrested? Yeah. Did they get sent to jail prison? No.

2 (15m 22s):
No, because what happened was they got themselves a very bright, intelligent lawyer who kept delaying and delaying and delaying until finally Roe versus Wade was passed. And then the judge threw the case out.

0 (15m 41s):
How many abortions do you think you helped women get in the time you guys were active?

2 (15m 47s):
Well, they have a record of 11,000 abortions.

0 (15m 51s):
11,000

2 (15m 53s):
11, 0, 0, 0.

0 (15m 57s):
Was there any organization at the time that helped as many women as you

2 (16m 2s):
Did? We don't know because it was illegal.

0 (16m 19s):
My conversation with Eleanor Oliver, also known as a Jane, continues in a minute on today, explained

4 (16m 38s):
If you're feeling like your 401k could use a little assistance, masterworks can help you diversify your portfolio by investing in fine art. And if you're thinking, I can't afford an entire Picasso, well you don't have to. Masterworks breaks fine art into shares so you can invest for a fraction of what the top collectors pay. That way you're basically investing in a tiny s e c qualified sliver of a Banksy. But that tiny sliver can go a long way. Goldman Sachs specifically names fine art as being able to protect your purchasing power in times of high inflation. In fact, masterworks the last three sales resulted in 13, 17, and 21% net returns to investors all in the last three months.

4 (17m 22s):
If you want to get started in the world of art investing, masterworks can help. There's a wait list to sign up, but they're giving listeners priority access to skip it and get started right away. You can go to masterworks.com and use promo code vox. That's masterworks.com promo code Vox see important regulation a disclosures@masterworks.com slash cd.

14 (17m 46s):
Okay, so we'll open the champagne. So when you're in sommelier school, they teach you that the pop shouldn't be no louder than a nun's fart.

15 (17m 57s):
A pop that's no louder than a nun's fart. That's the sound. That means there's gonna be a celebration

16 (18m 3s):
That's right around the world. December is often party time and we here at Gastropod are celebrating in style.

15 (18m 9s):
We've got a two-part special mini-series for you this month with the stories behind two of these special occasion treats, caviar and of course champagne.

16 (18m 18s):
Gastropod is the podcast that looks at food through the lens of science and history. So we are going to get to the bottom of why the eggs from a massive dinosaur looking freshwater fish are one of the most expensive foods in the world.

15 (18m 29s):
And why champaign is in a different league to other fizzy wines like Kava and

16 (18m 34s):
Prosecco. We also discover why Champaigns bubbles were originally considered a flaw and how to give a sturgeon an ultrasound.

15 (18m 41s):
Come join the party, find gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts

18 (18m 47s):
Today. Explained, yeah. More skk. Sk.

0 (19m 0s):
So Eleanor, you leave Chicago, you come to DC and it sounds like within a year, if not less, the Supreme Court decides Roe v. Wade, tell me where you were that day, what went through your mind

2 (19m 15s):
Relief. And I thought, great, everybody can go back to life as it was before all this started. And of course that didn't last very long.

19 (19m 26s):
The people here who call themselves pro-choice, their definition of pro-choice is abortion At any time for any reason,

20 (19m 34s):
By a vote of seven to two, the court agreed to uphold three of four restrictions on abortions in Pennsylvania.

21 (19m 41s):
We must not rest. And I pledge to you that I will not rest until a human life amendment becomes a part of our constitution.

22 (19m 50s):
The law known as Senate Bill eight prohibits abortions after six weeks. It also allows people to sue abortion providers and people who help others get them. These lawsuits could win plaintiffs up to $10,000.

17 (20m 3s):
The impact of today's ruling will be immediate. 13 states have trigger laws that automatically end access to abortion now that Roe is overturned.

0 (20m 14s):
I called you this morning and I woke you up, unfortunately. I apologize for that.

2 (20m 18s):
Well that's cuz I didn't go to bed until six o'clock.

0 (20m 20s):
Right? And I gave you the news that the Supreme Court had overturned Roe v. Wade. What went through your head?

2 (20m 28s):
I think it probably says something like a Oh oh shoot.

0 (20m 31s):
Yeah.

2 (20m 33s):
Well, we'll just, we'll just reorganize, you know, at 84, I think I've done my share on this. I think it's my daughters and my granddaughters who have to fight this. And I hope that I have inspired those two succeeding generations that they will go out and do that.

0 (20m 55s):
After I got off the phone with you this morning, I went down to the Supreme Court and I was taking it all in. There were people out there who were celebrating and there were far more people out there protesting. And the sign that struck a chord that I really kind of focused on when I saw it over and over and over again, it was young women holding up a sign that said, I will aid and abbet abortions.

2 (21m 22s):
See what I see what I mean? They're out there, it's gonna happen. They're already probably looking for their contacts. They're already setting it up. I don't know how I can help, but I would like to talk to those young women if nothing else, to let them know it can be done.

0 (21m 39s):
What would you tell 'em?

2 (21m 41s):
I would say, first of all, don't give up because we're out there. There are a lot of people who think like you. You are not alone. Find like-minded women. Get together, talk about the issues, and eventually groups will form. We'll get right back to 1968. We'll get back to our consciousness raising groups. We'll get back to all the issues that women are still, I mean, women are still fighting equal pay for equal work. And that was an issue back in 1968. They're still fighting childcare in the workplace.

0 (22m 20s):
There were a lot of people out there, certainly not the majority, but there were people out there celebrating blowing bubbles, jumping up and down for joy

2 (22m 29s):
Until they get pregnant, until they get unintentionally pregnant. I had people sitting in my living room saying, you know, nice Roman Catholic young women saying, I never thought I would be doing this, but I I can't have this, I can't have this child.

0 (22m 54s):
What do you think? All those people out there celebrating today don't understand about this Now, bygone constitutional right to have an abortion?

2 (23m 4s):
Well, they probably either, they never will. They'll always think it's, it's a sin. Now, I shouldn't say it's a sin. I, I mean I don't, I don't think an abortion is a nice idea. And it would be nice if you didn't have to terminate an unwanted pregnancy. But it happens. Women only hold up half the sky, let's be honest here, because they don't get pregnant by themselves. So men should be a little more aware of what they're asking women to do when they ask for favors. When they ask for a brief moment of comfort, this becomes a lifelong experience for the woman that gets left behind.

2 (23m 53s):
And I don't think people think about that until, until they're a woman and they get left behind.

0 (24m 2s):
There are people out there who are getting very emotional in this moment, who were, who were scared. Oh, and you don't actually seem scared. You seem rather confident to me.

2 (24m 11s):
Well, I know how, I know how things unfolded 50 years ago and I'm sure I, I'm hoping because of the contacts and the, and the means of communication that we now all have that things won't take 50 years to get established. I'm hoping that the Communica communications network will spring up a lot sooner than it, than it did then. Cuz all we had was a landline. A landline, and you picked up the receiver and you put your finger in the little hole and you dialed a little number. Everybody has a need. An abortion is a need. It's just a, a medical procedure.

2 (24m 52s):
Termination of an unplanned pregnancy. Call it an abortion. And if you write it with a capital a it, you know, it becomes like a scarlet letter or something. And it certainly shouldn't be. It's much safer than a tonsillectomy.

0 (25m 27s):
Eleanor Oliver, Washington dc She was once a Jane. There's a documentary about that group on H B O right now. It's called the Janes. And since we originally ran this episode back in July of this year, a whole other movie has come out about the Janes. That one's called Call Jane. I don't think you can find it wherever you can find your movies, but you can probably find it somewhere. All those big streamers have it. I think this is today explained. I'm Sean Ramas firm. I made today's show with lots of help from Victoria Chamberlain and a little help from Halima Shaw. We were edited by Matthew Collette and engineered by AEM Shapiro. Thanks to Janice Gibson for putting me in touch with Eleanor. The rest of the team here today explain includes Aha artsy haie ma Wadi Miles, Bryan, Amanda, Lou Ellen, Laura Bullard s Petros, Paul Robert Mosey, and my co-host Noel King.

0 (26m 15s):
We'll use music by Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. And today the Penguin Cafe Orchestra today explained is on the radio in partnership with W N Y C. And we are part of the Vox Media podcast network. Wishing all of you a happy and healthy transition into

1 (26m 31s):
20 23, 30

4 (27m 6s):
6 trillion. Were lost in stocks and bonds this year, but in the art market, the average piece is selling for 26% more at auction than last year. Masterworks lets you invest in fine art from legends like Picasso and Banksy in their last three sales resulted in 13, 17, and 21% net returns to investors. Just go to masterworks.com and use promo code vox. That's masterworks.com promo code Vox C, important regulation a. disclosures@masterworks.com slash cd.