0 (0s):
Big tech wants to help with your telephone, with your transportation, with your food delivery, with your entertainment, with your photos, with your news, with your blood. That didn't go very well.

1 (13s):
Ms. Grace Theranose founder and CEO found guilty on four of 11 counts in her landmark, Silicon valley fraud case

0 (20s):
With your brain and the case of cerebral. That's also not going very well.

2 (26s):
We came this late night video as a general PSA to anyone who is thinking about joining cerebral, do not walk, but run

0 (35s):
Adderall via Instagram, the rise and sort of stumbly fall of cerebral coming up on today explained

5 (1m 0s):
For over 20 years, Google has been helping protect Americans from cybersecurity threats, from turning two-step verification on by default for 150 million people, which adds an additional layer of account security with a single tap to protecting new sites and human rights organizations with project shield. Google is building advanced technologies that raise the bar for the entire industry and help make the whole internet safer for everyone. Learn more@safety.google.

6 (1m 31s):
This episode is brought to you by KPMG risk services. KPMG believes that when you've earned the trust of all your stakeholders, that's when your business has a solid platform to grow. That's the trusted imperative KPMG risk services develop and put in place dynamic risk strategies designed to help your business. Earn that all important trust, go to read.kpmg.us/trust to learn more.

7 (2m 10s):
My name is Ralph Winkler. I'm a reporter at the wall street journal

0 (2m 15s):
And I'm Sean Rama's from hosted today. Explain from Vox. Ralph is here to tell us about Cerebro.

7 (2m 21s):
Cerebral is an online mental health company that after launching two short years ago, January, 2020 has exploded to a $5 billion valuation and is treating tens of thousands of patients for mental health conditions. It's one of the fastest growing mental health companies online today,

0 (2m 45s):
But there is a, but the controversy has ensued,

7 (2m 49s):
Correct. The controversy is over their prescriptions of controlled substances in particular Adderall and stimulants to ADHD

8 (3m 0s):
As able to get in and see clinician and get on medication within like two

7 (3m 4s):
Weeks. And they're advertising

9 (3m 6s):
For it's dangerous to have ads that highlight very general symptoms being Spacey or forgetful or chatty, as you potentially having like mental health condition.

7 (3m 17s):
There was advertising that was criticized as inappropriate Instagram took it down. The company admitted mistakes in its advertising said it would form a new review board to look at it. They were doing ads that, you know, connected the obesity and ADHD are you overeating, maybe you have ADHD come and get treatment, which people thought was over the line. And on the other side of it, their concerns, and we reported a lot on this about nurse practitioners on the platform, the people who prescribed the medication ones we spoke to said they had felt pressured by the company to prescribe stimulants for people who came in saying that they had ADHD.

7 (3m 58s):
And of course a large number of them do have ADHD and need treatment. And stimulants are the best treatment for that. That's agreed on by psychiatrists. On the other hand, a lot of other people who were coming in to seek this medication, the nurses said, and they would have to do battle with them. Basically, you are just sort of seeking this, the stimulant and I'm not going to give it to you. And the company would pressure them to provide stimulants to, to go ahead and prescribe them because that would keep people paying their subscription fee. That's what the nurses said, that they felt that pressure. Now the company of course says we don't pressure any nurses.

7 (4m 40s):
We trust their clinical judgment and we've never punished anybody for not prescribing medication.

0 (4m 50s):
So let's wind back a little bit and talk about how this company got started. What's its origin story.

7 (4m 57s):
It started in January, 2020. The original idea for the business was they were going to prescribe medication for mental health concerns. At the time, a lot of the online mental health services would provide therapy

0 (5m 9s):
support for

10 (5m 9s):
The shelter that comes from better health.

7 (5m 11s):
They wanted to do for mental health, for depression and anxiety, something similar to what HIMS and Roman did for erectile dysfunction and hair loss.

11 (5m 24s):
Rob makes it simple and convenient to take care of. So when the moment's right, you're ready, Roman ready,

7 (5m 30s):
Let's make it easy to prescribe and get people access to the medication that could help them for these issues. It's co-founder former. It co-founder, but he's no longer with the company was, had been at hymns. So that was January, 2020. A key development was two months later, COVID hit the pandemic. If you

12 (5m 49s):
Don't test, you don't have any cases.

7 (5m 51s):
Then some of the guardrails around tele-health were lifted, including they made an exception to something called the Ryan Haight act, which is a law that prohibits prescribing schedule two medications without at least one in-person visit. In other words, if you want to schedule two med like Adderall or another stimulant, other meds in this category include Oxycontin and Vicodin. This is a DEA category. You know, they schedule a schedule, two includes substances that can be prescribed, but have a high potential for abuse that they were now allowed to prescribe. So now all of a sudden you could treat ADHD online and prescribe stimulants.

7 (6m 37s):
So they moved pretty aggressively into that marketplace and it became a key growth area for them.

0 (6m 45s):
How did they move aggressively?

7 (6m 47s):
They spent a lot of money on advertising. For instance,

13 (6m 50s):
Whether you struggle with anxiety, depression, ADHD, or you're just feeling unsure. Cerebral gives you access to a team of licensed therapists, counselors, and prescribers online.

7 (6m 59s):
And their business model is not unlike my business model. I've worked at the wall street journal. I'm at a newspaper. We sell subscriptions, our businesses to write stories you want to read so that you keep paying your subscription fee every month, right? Cerebral is in a similar business. There are a subscription business and a primary thing they sell you is called medication management. Come to us for the medication that you need to treat, whatever conditions you have, whether it's depression, anxiety, insomnia, ADHD, and we'll give you medication and you pay us every month and we'll manage that medication, including renewing your prescriptions for you to be renewed.

0 (7m 37s):
What is their advertising look like?

7 (7m 39s):
A lot of social media ads, a lot of ads on Tik TOK, a lot of ads on Instagram. They, you might know this company also because they signed up Simone Biles to be their chief impact officer last fall, after her very public battles with mental health during the Olympics,

14 (7m 60s):
For me, cerebral ease, this may anxiety, I choose to do weekly therapy. But if a licensed prescriber decides you need prescription medication, sorry, broken habit delivered to your door, having the support and

0 (8m 12s):
Tools. So how does the rebels business do in the pandemic?

7 (8m 15s):
The exploded. Remember this is a company that launched January of 2020. So start from zero and buy last year when they're raising money, they're treating over a hundred thousand patients already. Hmm. That's fast growth. That's fast growth.

0 (8m 37s):
How does the service work?

7 (8m 39s):
The way the business works is you're paying your subscription fee, which is roughly $80 a month for medication management. And the nurse practitioner is paid on the order of 40 to $50 for that initial assessment. And then say 20, 20, 20 $5 per month thereafter for followup visits. When they, when they see you in person, when they do a follow-up visit,

0 (9m 1s):
How does cerebrals process at this point compare to say a regular traditional in-office diagnosis of ADHD and, and say, you know, prescription for Adderall,

7 (9m 16s):
Sean, that is the key question because it's short, it's a much shorter appointment. They did half hour appointments to diagnose ADHD. And that is a lot shorter than your standard appointment. When we talk to experts, they say, look, the shortest ADHD appointments, they should run at least 90 minutes, and many of them can run. They can run three, four hours and have you fill out lots of information. And then the psychiatrist may, or th th the, the person evaluating you may interview your family. And so the cerebral appointments much shorter at 30 minutes.

0 (9m 55s):
And as you mentioned earlier, cerebrals allowed to do this. Thanks to the reversal of something called the Ryan Haight act.

7 (10m 3s):
The Ryan Haight act is still a law that's on the books.

15 (10m 6s):
Young man from California was only 18 when he overdosed on painkillers that were illegally prescribed over the internet.

7 (10m 12s):
But the public health emergency for COVID, which is continuing, has basically created an exception to that rule so that it's temporarily relaxed.

16 (10m 23s):
COVID-19 might be getting all the headlines, but patients are still getting sick from other diseases and injuries. And that's left doctors looking for other ways to treat them while minimizing contact enter telemedicine

7 (10m 36s):
And the public health emergency ends. It's my understanding that the Ryan Haight act snaps back. And so you won't be able to do some of these controlled substances online anymore without, without an in-person appointment.

0 (10m 47s):
How does cerebrals sort of new found ability to expedite this process of diagnosing mental illness and prescribing medication for it start to land them in hot water?

7 (11m 1s):
I think the questions that people started asking were around the quality of the diagnoses that the company's nurse practitioners were, were providing, like how much can they actually know in 30 minutes? And were there cases where patients maybe don't have ADHD, but are getting the meds anyway. And the nurses said they felt pressured to prescribe these meds, including, you know, something that happened late last year that the nurses described and we saw documents that showed this process was something called auditing where cerebrals clinical quality team would pull charts, say, nurse practitioner has a few hundred patients maybe, and they'll pull a few charts at random to see are they prescribing the appropriate medication?

7 (11m 53s):
And they pull some ADHD patients and they discover, okay, you diagnosed ADHD, but you didn't prescribe a stimulant. And that's the preferred medication For ADHD. Why haven't you done that? You should either change your diagnosis or switch the medication. And some nurses looked at that and they said, hold on a minute. It's not the company's job to tell me what to prescribe. I prescribed the medication. I feel that it's appropriate. It's my prescribing license. That's my job. Now the company says they don't pressure anyone to prescribe medication and they encourage nurses to follow their best clinical judgment and support them when they do a lot has been happening after people wrote about the company's practices in particular, around it's ADHD, prescribing one, we reported that some pharmacies had had issues with there with controlled substance prescriptions coming from cerebral and similar companies that, that do this online

17 (12m 58s):
Versus telling the wall street journal, Walmart, CVS, and Walgreens have all blocked or delayed prescriptions from certain telehealth providers.

7 (13m 7s):
Then it came out that there was a DOJ investigation that they were being investigated for possible violations of the controlled substances act, which the company says we haven't been accused of violating any laws and they were going to cooperate fully. And last most recently, the CEO basically got fired by the board.

0 (13m 42s):
More with Ralph than a minute on today. Explained

5 (13m 56s):
For over 20 years, Google has been helping protect Americans from cybersecurity threats, from turning two-step verification on by default for 150 million people, which adds an additional layer of account security with a single tap to protecting new sites and human rights organizations with project shield. Google is building advanced technologies that raise the bar for the entire industry and help make the whole internet safer for everyone. Learn more@safety.google

0 (14m 25s):
Support for the show today comes from Ernest. Ernest wants to help you with your student loans. Earnest is a low interest loan company that provides financial services to students looking to figure out private loans, co-signed loans or debt refinance with earnest. It only takes two minutes. They say two minutes to see what your new rate could be, and there's no credit impact. See if it's true, take the earnest test. Does it take two minutes? You can find out at earnest.com/explained right now, earnest is offering our listeners a $100 cash bonus. You can refinance your student debt at earnest.com/explained it is not available in all states.

0 (15m 8s):
I don't know which states it's available in and which states it isn't, but I'm sure you can find out@earnestdotcomslashexplainedwhereyoucanalsogetaonehundreddollarscashbonusearnest.com slash explained for more detail

18 (15m 21s):
It's not available in all states terms and conditions apply earnest student loan refinancing made by earnest operations, LLC. NMLS number 1, 2 0 4 9 1 7, California financing law license number 6 0 5 4 7 8 8 5 35. Mission street, San Francisco, California, 9 41 0 5. Visit earnest.com/licenses for a full list of licenses.

13 (15m 45s):
Whether you struggle with anxiety, depression, ADHD, or you're just feeling unsure. Cerebral gives you access to a team of licensed therapists,

19 (15m 53s):
Counselors, and prescribers online prescription

0 (16m 1s):
Today explained Sean Rama's from back with Ralph Winkler, from the wall street journal, who just told us about cerebrals fast rise during the pandemic, which was followed by lots of questions about its practices and ethics, prescribing things like ADHD medication very quickly. Ralph, how does the federal government take an interest in cerebral?

7 (16m 24s):
We don't have full answers to that. We know that what they're doing is investigating potential violations of the controlled substances act. And you know, that's after the DEA has interviewed some nurse practitioners at cerebral. So we're waiting to see cerebral, hasn't been accused of violating any laws and they say they're fully cooperating. So that's, that's yet to be determined what's going on there,

0 (16m 56s):
But this isn't the only problem cerebral is having right now.

7 (16m 59s):
Well, you know, they had to shut down that ADHD business. They decided that was the best course of action. And they, the board voted out the CEO and replaced him with the company's existing CMO. And by the way, that has been quite a mess. The CEO said in a memo to the board that he feels like he's a scapegoat and the people you're replacing me with have been there the whole time. And you know, the board knew everything. Investors knew, everything. You were just blaming me to try to effectively make a clean break. But is this really a clean break? That's a question for people to ask executives now in charge who have been there for, you know, all of the relevant period the CFO joined in February, 2021.

7 (17m 47s):
So that's a question is, you know, how much of a break is it with the past? We wrote our story about people feeling pressured to prescribe back in late March. So a lot of this has happened pretty quickly.

0 (17m 60s):
How was cerebral responding to all of this? Ralph

7 (18m 3s):
Cerebral has petted a bunch of different responses. They say that they follow evidence-based best practices for all of their prescribing, that they never pressured nurse practitioners to prescribe. They say they provide high quality care and they say, you know, above all our mission is to expand access for mental health, right? It is a fact that there's more demand for mental health resources in this country than there are than there is supply.

7 (18m 43s):
You want to go see a psychiatrist? One, can you afford it out of people can't afford that. And to a lot of people may not have a psychiatrist near them who can see them, you know, anytime before three months from now. So cerebral says, look, we are helping to expand access to behavioral health medication that people in this country need.

0 (19m 10s):
You know, I asked you how cerebral sort of responding to the controversy wall street journal has done a lot of the reporting here. How have they responded specifically to the reporting you all have done?

7 (19m 19s):
They said it was a broad problem in the telehealth industry at the time we were reporting this. But the thing when we followed up was the telehealth industry doesn't broadly prescribe controlled substances. Instead it was an industry wide problem. And we had asked, well, who else in the industry is doing controlled substances? Because the top general tele-health players, Teladoc MD live doctor on demand, these, these kinds of services, and also the other mental health companies, Lira health, modern health ginger, they don't do controlled substances.

0 (19m 53s):
So, so cerebrals defending their practices, but at the same time, they just got rid of their C

7 (19m 59s):
And ended a lot of their practices around ADHD and controlled substances. They just stopped at all. So yes, on the one hand, they're saying everything we're doing is great. We follow best practices. And our mission is a good one. And that's for everybody out there to decide, right?

0 (20m 17s):
Which is, it seems like is a way of admitting that things weren't up to snuff.

7 (20m 25s):
They've certainly owned up to mistakes. They've certainly said admitted that they made mistakes in various areas, and they're going to try to do better.

0 (20m 37s):
So if they're not prescribing these controlled substances, how much of their business remains intact

7 (20m 44s):
A significant part of it? Because a lot of what the company does is also prescribed SSRI for depression. For instance, they'll prescribe non-controlled substances for depression, anxiety, insomnia, these are all large components of, of their business and the majority really. So they still have a fairly sizable business there, for sure.

0 (21m 17s):
I'm sure a lot of people listening to this can't help, but think of a recent health startup controversy in this country that was recently turned into a TV show.

22 (21m 28s):
The world's works in certain ways until a new great idea comes along and changes everything.

0 (21m 34s):
And I think there's a movie coming to

1 (21m 37s):
Grace. Theranose founder and CEO found guilty on four of 11 counts in her landmark, Silicon valley fraud case.

0 (21m 44s):
Yeah. Do you draw any lines between the two,

7 (21m 47s):
Their technology was, it was diagnostic, it was different. It was blood tests. It wasn't, it wasn't medication that you were putting in your body on this, in this case with cerebral, hasn't been around nearly as long, only two years. So not as many people have heard of it. The CEO, isn't a household name on the other hand, it prescribes medication, right? So it's impact on the daily lives of, again, tens of thousands of people is just very different. And to be clear, none of our reporting would suggest that most people going to scribble aren't getting great care.

0 (22m 30s):
Hm. Do you think there's some larger problem here that maybe we move too fast, especially with something as serious as prescription medicine or mental health diagnoses should tell a health startups have sort of a different bar than say tech startups that help you, who knows get some food delivered or, or, you know, book a car.

7 (22m 56s):
So I think it's important to separate out The prescribing of, you know, online mental health. It should be said is filling a need that is there in this country. A lot of people need help for mental health issues, especially during the pandemic. And it's hard there that those resources just aren't widely available. So there are a lot of companies that are trying to make those resources available, and I think everybody would agree that's something that's badly needed. Right. And the question that knowledgeable people in this area have raised for me. And the thing they've said to focus on is really the controlled substances aspect of this.

7 (23m 43s):
So to your question about, you know, Silicon valley getting into this, right, the question is, okay, if we're looking at controlled substances as the thing where you have to be really careful, I mean, we put guard rails around controlled substances for a reason because they're prone to abuse. And so you ask yourself, okay, well, does the Silicon valley direct to consumer playbook where we spend tons of money to advertise it, bring people in you make something easier for, for the client to get that's the general idea, right? Is that appropriate for controlled substances? The sources I spoke to th the, the answer to that question, and really the challenge is around the approach to the business and treating the people who come in like clients who are customers who want to buy a product, right?

7 (24m 35s):
The nurse practitioners we spoke to said, look, we're being evaluated like Uber drivers. We're getting rated on a S on a scale of one to five. Who do you think are some of the people that give me a one? It's the people I don't give the medication to who who want it, but I'm not an Uber driver. I'm supposed to be able to say no to you.

0 (25m 6s):
Our show today was made by Victoria Domingas it's her first. She was edited by Matthew Collette fact-checked by Laura Bullard and mixed and mastered by Paul mousey. The rest of the takes plane team includes Halima Shaw, Myles Bryan, Victoria, Chamberlain, Hadi Milwak D, and Abishai artsy. Our supervising producers Amina <inaudible>. Our director of sound is a Feme Shapiro. My co-host is Noel king. Our VP of audio at Vox is Liz Kelly Nelson. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and sometimes no I'm Hassenfeld too. He hosts a show called unexplainable, and they're launching a series this week on lost worlds.

0 (25m 47s):
I'm Sean Rama's from today explained is part of the Vox media podcast network. We're on the radio across these United States in partnership with w NYC