0 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from Venmo. Next time you split the bill score $10. When you pay with Venmo, from rent and utilities to concert, tickets and dinners out. Venmo makes it easy to share the fun and split the check in the app. Order delivery for the group. Get paid back before your meal, arrive, share a ride with your roommates, split the car and the charge. Sign up today with the code explained and get $10 to spend and send. Offer ends December 31st, 2021 limited availability. See terms at venmo.me/sign up 10 that's $10 with the promo code explained support for the show. Today comes from Ft. News briefing, a podcast brought to you by our friends over at the financial times. All they want to be friends. I want to be friends. Let's be friends.

0 (41s):
And just eight minutes. You can know the most important stories in business and the markets Ft news briefing brings you an abridged, a complete overview of the most essential headlines. From Monday through Friday, you can listen to host mark Filipino and stay up to date with the most important business news stories. All the financial times podcasts are free. So listen, whenever find Ft news briefing on apple podcast, Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts. It stays explained.

0 (1m 21s):
I'm Sean Ramez from we've talked about black Panther on the show before, but never this one specific

2 (1m 27s):
Good morning. How can I,

3 (1m 30s):
Yeah, I'll just check it out. These artifacts it's telling me you're the expert.

0 (1m 35s):
I said it's the first time we meet a guy named Eric Stevens, AKA Killmonger. He's played by Michael B. Jordan. Whereas this

3 (1m 42s):
One from

2 (1m 43s):
The Bobo Ashanti tribe present day Ghana.

3 (1m 47s):
And what about this one?

2 (1m 50s):
Once from the Edo people have been in 16th century.

3 (1m 55s):
Now tell me about this one.

2 (1m 58s):
Also from Benning seventh century foula tribe,

0 (2m 3s):
He's at an art museum. That certainly seems like it's supposed to be the British museum in London and he can't help, but notice everything on display has something in common.

3 (2m 12s):
I can answer this. Got these. You think they paid a fair price or did they take it like they took it.

0 (2m 17s):
Everything else, Eric and some other bad dudes do some crimes and help themselves to the stolen goods.

2 (2m 23s):
Okay, please. Somebody could help you by the way, the west African exhibit, please write away

0 (2m 29s):
Back in real life. Some of the biggest museums in the world are having a long overdue reckoning about their collections. Back in 2019, the metropolitan museum of art in New York had to give back a gilded coffin that was looted from Egypt. This year, they're returning an ancient Nepali sculpture. The Denver art museum is returning sculptures to Cambodia. The national gallery of art here in DC is getting it on it too.

4 (2m 53s):
The death of George Floyd, there's been a real push to look at some of the issues around colonialism and more of an effort to repatriate and restitute artifacts. There were looted during the colonial era, both kind of globally, but also a real kind of activism is happening in Africa to try and get these artworks back.

0 (3m 23s):
<em></em> she's a foreign policy writer who splits her time between London and Lagos, Nigeria. And she's been reporting on one very specific set of stolen art. The Beneen bronzes,

4 (3m 37s):
All of the artifacts are actually a bronze, but they're a collection of artworks from the kingdom of Bennin, which is in Southern Nigeria. It's often confused with the Republic of Benin, which is a country that is near Nigeria, but the two are not linked at all.

5 (4m 2s):
I once mighty kingdom. Now, part of Nigeria who's bustling modern day streets are still defined by the brutal invasion of the British back in 1897.

4 (4m 13s):
And that part of the kingdom was annexed to Britain a month prior to them being stolen, British soldiers came to the kingdom of Ben, then demanding a trade rights. The ABA of Bennin Arbor means king in Edo and in the Europe languages. So the ABA of Bannon had asked them not to come, but they came anyway. Some of the King's men killed seven of those British soldiers. And as a result of that, there was a punitive expedition British forces around 1,200 soldiers came into the kingdom of Bannon,

6 (4m 59s):
The city. <em></em> lots of people. And then diluted his article.

4 (5m 6s):
Historians have managed to sort of prove through correspondence that this act wasn't really about punishing the killing of the seven soldiers, because one of the British consoles had actually written to the British government and said, you know, if, if we were to remove the king from his store, there's a lot of artifacts and treasures in this kingdom that could actually pay for it.

5 (5m 39s):
Bronzes were traditionally commissioned by the ABA or king prince Edin. Kenzo has been demanding their return for decades in his personal library photos. The British took when they burnt his great, great grandfather's palace to the ground, hunting for loot.

7 (5m 57s):
The new one. Yeah, they, they

4 (6m 2s):
Knew there were precious

7 (6m 3s):
Objects here and there. They were a new team

4 (6m 5s):
And read you out the quote of what he actually said, which is I would add the tie, have reason to hope there's sufficient ivory may be found in the King's house to pay the expenses in removing the king from his store,

7 (6m 23s):
Like our own, whatever was significant <em></em> of the bras. Costa took us 15, bro, keep your neck on. So taking them away because that young king of pages of our history,

4 (6m 46s):
There isn't actually a sort of figure for how many artifacts were looted, but there is an estimation that it was around 3000 artifacts. It may be more that were taken, shipped to Britain. And almost a month after the, the looting, they were exhibited at the British museum and the rest were sold off to countries across Europe. They ended up almost, you know, across the world, apart from much of the African continent. Unfortunately.

4 (7m 25s):
So you have been in Brontez at the metropolitan museum of art. There are been in Brontez in Germany, in France, Russia, everywhere, really?

0 (7m 39s):
What makes them such an attractive item to display it and museums around the world?

4 (7m 44s):
I think it's because of fair intricacy

9 (7m 53s):
With the lost wax process, molten metal is poured into a mold that has been created with a wax model. Once the mold is made, the wax model is melted and drained away. The process means that each work is unique,

4 (8m 7s):
But some of these artworks date back centuries, the first

10 (8m 11s):
Female to be depicted was queen India.

4 (8m 15s):
The most recognizable artifact from that collection is actually a what's called the queen dear patent mosque. And the patent is a sort of replica of the bar's mother, the King's mother.

11 (8m 33s):
She was known to be a very powerful woman with grit, spiritual powers, authority that she deployed.

4 (8m 42s):
There's one in the metropolitan museum of art in New York. And there's also one in the British museum.

10 (8m 50s):
The original shows real attention to detail and you know, very work and artistry. For example, the hair is in a kind of cone shape. And then it's covered in a netting of coral beads group.

0 (9m 9s):
What are these bronzes worth? What is their present day value?

4 (9m 15s):
Some are worth up to 4 million each. They are very, very valuable. They've they've sold at auctions for, for thousands and millions of pounds. Despite the fact that, you know, people nowadays know that they were stolen, they were looted.

0 (9m 37s):
And I imagine Nigerians, haven't been happy about that for some time. What is the latest push to get them back? Looked like

4 (9m 45s):
The most recent is when the Nigerian government did send the letter to the British museum officially again, asking for these, these artifacts back, not just the band end Bron says, but all of the artifacts, they were looted from Nigeria and taken to Britain. During the colonial era,

12 (10m 10s):
The Nigerian government have served the legal letter to the British museum, shared exclusively with channel four news, the minding, the return of their bunny and bronzes stating by carting away. These antiquities, the nation of Nigeria is the new deed and deprived of her cultural essence are palaces and museums are empty

4 (10m 29s):
So far. Any, a few artifacts have come back. The, the British museum has agreed to learn back some of these artifacts. So as the mat,

0 (10m 43s):
Back to the country, they stole them from,

4 (10m 47s):
So this is the controversial debate at the moment. How can you learn back something to a nation that you stole from them in the, in the first place? That's the agreement that the Nigerian government has agreed to? I think from their point of view, they just want it to come back and they want the, the younger generation to be able to see some of these artworks, because let's not forget, we're talking about 124 years. A lot of Nigerians actually have never seen a ban in bronze. They don't even know what it's like to sort of touch one.

4 (11m 28s):
So for the Nigerian government, it's just important that they come back rather than, you know, the issues around ownership. But for other countries, you know, like Ghana ownership is, is really important when we're talking about restaurateur suiting, the artworks that were were stolen during the colonial era.

0 (11m 59s):
Tell me how you first got to see the venom bronzes and how you felt.

4 (12m 5s):
So I grew up partly in Nigeria and then my family moved to the UK. I didn't know the background to them. When I first saw them at the British museum, I didn't know how they were taken. And two years ago I was able to see them for the first time in Nigeria, at the MEC Sheila museum of art in Lagos. And that's the first time I've ever seen abandon bronze actually in the country that created it in the country that I was born in. And it was just indescribable.

0 (13m 3s):
More with not as much in a minute on today, explain

13 (13m 13s):
And I thought that might be my teeth to see <em></em>

0 (13m 32s):
Nazma, we've been focused on the Beneen bronzes, but I wonder how common is this across the continent? How much African art is situated displayed outside of Africa?

4 (13m 43s):
It was a report that was commissioned by the French president Emmanuel Macron. And that showed that 90 to 95% of Africa's heritage is held outside the continent, obviously by heritage. You know, these are the historical artifacts that report was published in 2018.

0 (14m 8s):
And do we know how much of that art was? You know, ill gotten stolen looted.

4 (14m 15s):
We think that the majority of it was looted chewing the colonial era, not forgetting that pretty much all, but a few countries in Africa was done next during the 19th century into various European empires.

0 (14m 40s):
So are you saying that basically all of it was stolen or alluded?

4 (14m 44s):
Yes.

0 (14m 46s):
How much of that? You know, 90% of Africa's art that's in Europe and elsewhere is being returned right now.

4 (14m 56s):
There's a lot of discussions about returning these artifacts. Not a lot is actually coming back. It's all coming back, quite piecemeal. So we know that France has agreed to repatriate around 26 artifacts to the country of Bennin. So where we're talking really single figures, you know, they're not coming back in their thousands or, or anything like that.

0 (15m 32s):
So how many museums out there have these bronzes and are just absolutely refusing to give them back? It sounds like the majority,

4 (15m 40s):
The British government have basically they have a stance, the they will retain and explain objects. There are two acts within their legislator that stops the return of artifacts. And that is the British museum act of 1963 and the national heritage act of 1983. So technically the British museum cannot give these artifacts back on last, the British government and that two new laws that will allow for the return of the, they have point blank refused to do that.

0 (16m 29s):
You know, you talk about these works of art being, you know, on display at the British museum and the metropolitan museum of art, some of the most famous illustrious art institutions in the world, where do they end up when they go back to Africa? If they go back to Africa?

4 (16m 48s):
Well, there's been a kind of great push to open up new museums across the continent because one of the biggest push back against repatriation was that African countries could not house these treasures. They didn't have the facilities to be able to keep them. So there's been a lot of effort to opening up new kind of state of the art museums within Nigeria itself. There is the Edo museum of west African art, which is opening up in Benning on the former Romans of the old palace.

4 (17m 35s):
There's also the John K Rondell center for Europa history and culture in Lego state that is looking to repatriate. And restitute a Europa cultural art in Ghana. There's a sort of relaunching of its national museum and there's another $30 million Pan-African heritage world museum that is currently being built. Santa's goal, of course, in 2018, opens up the museum of black civilizations. And, you know, they talked about reclaiming the cultural language and reclaiming the narrative of, of African history.

14 (18m 21s):
I gave you my last guy span, everything I can ride on that,

4 (18m 43s):
You know, a lot of people were kind of spurred on to revisit history and revisit some of the crimes that were done to people of African descent. Let's not forget that, you know, these artifacts weren't simply stolen. They killed thousands of people for them. All of these African countries fought strongly against colonization. They weren't annexed quiet, sweet. It was very, very violently done. There's a great quote from the Nigerian author, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.

4 (19m 29s):
She said,

15 (19m 30s):
We cannot change the past, but we can change our blindness.

4 (19m 35s):
And I think a lot of African activists are making sure that European museums and just the world globally, doesn't uphold this blindness towards what's happened.

15 (20m 2s):
When we talk about this art that were stolen were told that they cannot be returned to Africa, for example, because Africans will not take good care of them. It is not merely condescending to say, I cannot return what I stole from you because you will not take good care of it. It is also lacking in basic logic since when has the basis of ownership been taken good care of what is owned? This position is paternalistic arrogance of the most stunning sought. It does not matter whether Africans or Asians, Latin Americans can take care of the art stolen from them.

15 (20m 43s):
What matters is that? It is this

0 (21m 1s):
Non-smart Bato Masi writes about Africa for foreign policy. She spoke to us from Lagos Alima Shaw produced this episode from Washington DC it's today explained.