0 (1s):
At the beginning of the month, Brian Chesky, the co-founder and c e o of Airbnb said something you don't often hear co-founders and CEOs say. He said his house was a total mess. Chesky told a Bloomberg reporter that the foundation of Airbnb was basically broken, that the site was 10 times as big than it was eight years ago and there weren't enough pillars holding up. Its 7 million or so listings around the world. Prices outta control, inaccurate listings, bad customer service. All is coming from the c e o, but Airbnb's problems aren't limited to its service. There have been Airbnb bans and restrictions passed all over the world. The latest in one of its biggest markets in its biggest country.

0 (48s):
We're gonna hear how that's going and if this beloved service can work a bit better for everyone. On today explained, oh great

2 (54s):
Jungle with Dreams made. There's

Apple Card (1m 1s):
Reboot your credit card with Apple Card. It gives you unlimited daily cash back that can earn 4.15% annual percentage yield when you open a savings account, a high yield low effort way to grow your money with no fees. Apply for Apple Card now in the wallet app on iPhone to start earning and growing your daily cash with savings. Today. Apple card's subject to credit approval. Savings is available to Apple card owners subject to eligibility, savings accounts by Goldman Sachs. Bank U Ss A member F D I C. Terms apply

Viator (1m 38s):
Support for this episode comes from via tour. Experiences are what people love the most about travel. That's why VIA Tour has over 300,000 bookable experiences. So there's always something for everyone. They offer everything from simple tours to extreme adventures plus via tour's, travel experiences have millions of real traveler reviews. So you have the information you need to book the best activities for your trip. Download the Via tour app now and use code via tour 10 for 10% off your first booking in the app. One app over 300,000 travel experiences. You'll remember. Do more with vor.

4 (2m 18s):
And we're at the broken doors please. The next stop will be today. Explain today, explain will be next. Stand here.

0 (2m 27s):
According to the C e O of Airbnb, New York City accounted for roughly 80% of its business around 2010. Compare that to 2023 when New York City just last month placed a severe restriction on short-term rentals. Decimating Airbnb's business there. Amanda Hoover has been on the Airbnb for Wired. We asked her how New Yorkers are feeling about their new

5 (2m 51s):
Law. It's a mixed bag. Airbnb hosts are very upset. They view this as something that is taking away a source of revenue. Some of these people, you know, aren't necessarily big landlords but have one unit they rent out or rent out their place while they're away and they're no longer able to do that.

6 (3m 10s):
I'm very concerned about being able to afford our home and our expenses without the short term rental. I really want to be able to support our family. This is putting me in a rock between a rock and a hard place.

5 (3m 23s):
You have housing advocates that are saying that this is something that could free up more housing stock and help to compete with some of the really high rents that are creating housing shortages.

7 (3m 34s):
Commercial operators who take thousands of units off the market that should be going to permanent New York residents and turn them into rooms for tourists who are here one or two nights that has to end 'cause it has encroached on our supply of affordable housing, which is diminishing daily.

0 (3m 58s):
Take us back a little bit to why New York City is doing this.

5 (4m 4s):
Yeah, they're doing this, you know, for the same reason that housing advocates are interested in this. Rents are very high in New York. Getting apartments is very competitive. We

9 (4m 13s):
Actually offered six months in advance, $24,000 despite offering that we got rejected. We found out the competing bid was a person who offered to lease all five six units and there are turning it into Airbnb rentals.

5 (4m 29s):
There were tens of thousands of short, short-term rentals that in theory people could live in full-time and that would make it in, in theory a bit easier maybe to find an apartment. That's the city's stance in limiting it as well though short-term rentals tend to bring noise and trash and even parties and potential danger to residential areas. So there's a bit of pushback on that end as well. And we see that around the country. That

10 (4m 54s):
Time I had to go break up a party at my Rrb Envy in the middle of the night while I was eight months pregnant with

8 (5m 0s):
Twins. Who's Jeffrey? Where's Jeffrey? Where's get out. Everyone get out.

5 (5m 8s):
And there's another piece of this. You know, some people are engaging in what they call Airbnb arbitrage, which, oh they aren't the homeowners. These are people who lease units from landlords with an agreement or maybe sometimes without an agreement that they'll then be listing it on places like Airbnb and they act then as the property manager, they furnish it. You see a lot of these very bland styled apartments that just look like IKEA showrooms. But you can charge so much more per night, generally with a short-term rental than you can with a long-term lease if you're

11 (5m 41s):
In your twenties or thirties and not making it least 10,000 a month. Stop scrolling. I had heard about rental arbitrage and decided to give it a

12 (5m 47s):
Try at 20 years old. How did you even get all these Airbnbs? What's the deal? Yeah, so

13 (5m 52s):
We use the arbitrage method where we, you know, contact the landlord or like

5 (5m 56s):
A property. So then they profit and then they go and take that money and you know, get another lease. So some of these people do this with tens or dozens of places. You know, people claim to make tens of thousand dollars a month in revenue doing this.

14 (6m 7s):
I'm gonna show you how I made a million dollars with rental arbitrage

15 (6m 10s):
Part three of making $65,359 a month from Airbnb arbitrage after. When did

0 (6m 15s):
New York first get savvy to all this Airbnb arbitrage?

5 (6m 20s):
The latest rule isn't necessarily aimed only at Airbnb arbitrage, but the city and Airbnb have for a couple of years gone back and forth. More recently is this registration law. You know, there are older laws on the books the city say prevent short-term renting. It's just been very unenforceable ever since. Airbnb became such a massive presence in 2022 they passed this local law 18, which requires Airbnb hosts or short-term rental hosts to register with the city to get that registration. Though you can be listing entire apartments, you have to be listing a room in your home where you also will be home at the time that the guest is there. you can list, you know, for a maximum of two guests.

5 (7m 0s):
So that cuts out a big piece of the market. There's no more entire apartment rentals and a lot of people, you know, we're really doing that as opposed to hotel. You have a much smaller group of people that are willing to share a home with somebody.

6 (7m 13s):
We're in New York City, everything is super small and the rules don't really make sense. If they're saying that I have to share my apartment and they have access to every room in my house and I have to have access to theirs, I'm not sure of too many travelers that are gonna feel comfortable with that.

5 (7m 30s):
And then there was some delays in in enforcement, but starting on September 5th is when the city began working to verify that properties that were listed are registered.

0 (7m 41s):
So it's been like a month and a half since New York City started enforcing this law. Do you know how it's going so far?

5 (7m 48s):
What we know, what we see as we look around is that there are people moving to different platforms that are still looking to do these whole unit short-term rentals. I found many on Facebook marketplace and different Facebook housing groups that are for short-term rentals, sublets, things like that. I've also found some of these on Craigslist where the Craigslist description says like this is an Airbnb. You know, still using that language that people so associate with short-term rentals. There's also another website called Hal Fee where tons of hosts have signed up in the past couple of weeks. You know, you see a lot of people based in New York City that says they started in September or October and this is more of a peer-to-peer housing platform where people would pay directly.

5 (8m 29s):
So it kind of skirts that booking platform accountability that this law meant to enact. So it's really hard to say like how many people in total are doing this? I've found definitely like dozens are still doing this through these other outlets that are not formal short-term rental platforms like Airbnb or V R B O.

0 (8m 48s):
How does New York feel that people are just scrambling to other sites to continue to violate the spirit or maybe even the letter of their law. And then how do sites like Facebook, Craigslist, or Hal, which I'm just now discovering exists feel about people coming to their sites to now flout this law?

5 (9m 7s):
When I was writing a story about that, you know, I didn't get comment from the city, they didn't have a response for me to include. I did speak with Hal as I've reported, you know, they kind of maintain that because they aren't processing payments, you know, they aren't subject to some of these regulations but still say that they're working with the city to try to follow the law and and see how the regulations fit into their platform. But a lot of these are very hard to police. You know, it's pretty hard to catch a line in a post in a, in a Facebook group that's private. I've seen people that just are posting saying, I'm looking for a weekend in November, like in this neighborhood who has something that's a lot harder to track than an Airbnb listing.

5 (9m 48s):
It

0 (9m 48s):
Sounds like Amanda from your telling of it, that that New York's kind of having to like reinvent the wheel here in terms of thinking about how to enforce this law and how to actually achieve the ends it's seeking here. But other cities have tried this, right?

5 (10m 4s):
Many cities have tried some version of regulating short-term rentals. Sometimes it's a registration, sometimes it's a ban on the number of nights per year. you can list an entire apartment here

16 (10m 17s):
In the capitol. Hosts are usually restricted to hiring out their properties for 90 nights a year.

5 (10m 23s):
Sometimes it's, you know, certain zones. If they are zoned residential, they're trying to ban short-term rentals from coming to that part of cities and keep them more in places where tourism is popular.

17 (10m 35s):
Dallas City staff told council members today that defining short-term rentals like those listed on Airbnb and VRBO as lodging would eliminate about 95% of the rentals operating in the city.

18 (10m 47s):
That would make them illegal in residential neighborhoods. But legal in these commercial areas, colored pink,

5 (10m 53s):
It's a constant fight and it's really creating like a patchwork of rules for the platforms to be dealing with and for hosts and and guests as well. They can see very different offerings, you know, depending what city they're searching in.

0 (11m 8s):
And this kind of brings us back to the reason Airbnb was such a success in the first place. Cities like New York City are incredibly expensive to stay in if you can even find a hotel you can afford and if that hotel's not on the high end, it's gonna suck. The very producer of this episode, SI Petros became aware of this short-term rental ban because she and a friend were traveling to New York and they couldn't find an Airbnb anywhere. So they ended up paying nearly a grand for an overpriced hotel. Yeah,

19 (11m 38s):
I don't know what's worse, the fact that we actually paid that much money or the fact that that was the cheapest option that we could find. Still don't know how I feel about it, but it was a good weekend though. At least

0 (11m 48s):
I know the chief concerns here are with New Yorkers. But how is this gonna affect thousands upon thousands, if not, I don't know millions of people who visit that city every year?

5 (11m 58s):
Yeah, it's definitely maybe a deterrent for some people. If people had trips booked past December 1st on Airbnb, they might be dealing with their trip being canceled. Now if that place hasn't registered and doesn't comply with these rules, hotel prices may even go up. Some analysts have been saying recently because there's going to be increased demand back on hotels. So it's gonna be a bit trickier if people navigate and if you're coming here with a family, you know with children, a lot of people have found it's much more pleasant to stay in a neighborhood and in an Airbnb where you have a washer and a kitchen, things that you don't generally get in hotels. So there are still ways you can like rent homes like that, but they might be a bit more expensive and you might have to do it for a bit longer.

5 (12m 45s):
So it does most immediately I think affect visitors and hosts as well. What this might do for the housing market is a little bit less clear. It's a city of 8 million people and we're talking about housing units in the thousands. So it's not like immediately all the rent in New York is going to drop because of this.

0 (13m 13s):
That was Amanda Hoover from Wired. Read her at Wired dot com when we're back. On today explained why even without an Airbnb banner restriction hotels are looking a lot better to a lot of people these days.

20 (13m 28s):
I've lived in and grew up in the Hudson Valley of New York state my whole life and Airbnb has completely ruined the economy of here during the summer and weekends. I feel like a stranger in my own hometown. It's getting out of hand.

21 (13m 45s):
I rent my home while I'm working out of state and I rent it out at a very reasonable rate to people who are working in the service industry. I'm completely in favor of a ban or restrictions on Airbnbs and the like because I think they're a huge contributor to the housing shortage in this country.

22 (14m 7s):
Airbnb is great if you've got a big group of people looking to stay in one house together. Airbnb is not the answer when you and one or two other people are looking for a cheap alternative to a hotel room. Just get a hotel, love the show.

Apple Card (14m 34s):
Reboot your credit card with Apple Card. It gives you unlimited daily cash back that can earn 4.15% annual percentage yield when you open a savings account, a high yield low effort way to grow your money with no fees. Apply for Apple Card now in the wallet app on iPhone to start earning and growing your daily cash with savings. Today. Apple card's subject to credit approval savings is available to Apple card owners subject to eligibility, savings accounts by Goldman Sachs. Bank U Ss a member F D I C. Terms apply

Via Tour (15m 11s):
Support for this episode comes from via tour. Sure, a good souvenir is always fun, but it's the experiences that people love the most about traveling. When you get back home that t-shirt might fade and that snow globe might break, but it's those once in a lifetime. Memories that will last. Via tour is a website and app where you can book travel experiences like architectural sightseeing, snorkeling excursions, sunset cruises, and so much more. With via tour you can reserve everything from simple tours to thrilling adventures. With over 300,000 bookable experiences in 190 countries, whether you're a foodie, a history buff, or an adrenaline junkie, there's something for everyone. Plus, via tour's, travel experiences have millions of real traveler reviews. So you can have the information you need to book the best activities for your trip. When you book a travel experience with Via tour, there's always flexibility and support with free cancellation payment options and 24 7 service, make memories that will last forever with Via tour. Download the Via tour app now and use code via tour 10 for 10% off your first booking in the app. One app over 300,000 travel experiences. You'll remember do more with Via tour.

22 (16m 24s):
I got like wrestled awake by my partner, like, don't forget, don't, don't forget, don't forget, don't forget. So I had to kind of like put my hand over my mouth and wake up and see, oh my gosh, this man is in this bed with my partner and me. The man who owned the house who rented it to us in Airbnb

0 (16m 52s):
Today explained is back and we're joined by Kate Lindsay who recently wrote a piece for the Atlantic titled Airbnb Really Is Difference Now. We asked her what it used to be like.

23 (17m 3s):
So in 2007 in San Francisco, the founders of Airbnb kind of had this idea that during these big ticket events like political conventions, they could step in when hotels would kind of as quickly settle out of rooms or the, the prices would be too high.

24 (17m 20s):
That summer everybody was talking about the Democratic National Convention, which is gonna be held in August, 2008 in Denver. It's where Barack Obama was gonna receive the Democratic Party's nomination for presidency.

23 (17m 31s):
So what the founders did was they were like, we're literally just gonna put a few actresses on the floor of our apartment. Wolf's also provide breakfast and we'll like charge for that.

24 (17m 39s):
They had upgraded the venue to the stadium that holds 80,000 people. And while we looked up in Denver, there's only 17,000 hotel rooms. So we knew right away there was gonna be a problem, that there's gonna gonna be a need for alternatives.

23 (17m 51s):
It blossomed from there in terms of like if you're someone who has a spare room or even a couch or an apartment over your garage, you know this space in your home, they kind of realize this is untapped money, you could be making money off of it.

24 (18m 6s):
And so we rushed to build this website in three months. And again we launched it two weeks before the event. We were lucky there were a lot of locals who were looking to get out of town and make some money. And so within the first week we got 800 people to put up their properties on our website.

22 (18m 21s):
I was actually an Airbnb host for several years. I would say my experience was overwhelmingly positive and it really helped me pay the rent on a very expensive house that I really couldn't afford.

0 (18m 33s):
It was just like couch surfing. Yeah, dot com but for money, right?

23 (18m 37s):
And so it, it kind of, you know, it solved two problems. It gave hosts sort of easy way to make extra money without changing too much about their lifestyle. And then guests also could get a cheaper room and then sort of as Airbnb firmed itself up, it really kind of became, you know, not only do you get this this room, but also you get sort of an a host who literally lives there and can give you recommendations. It was very much sort of a personal experience, very much an alternative to hotels.

25 (19m 4s):
I stayed at an Airbnb in Washington DC multiple times because I come there every year and loved staying with the same family again and again. And we would go out for drinks and dinner or sometimes we would get wine at home and they would cook dinner. So it was just a spectacular experience. Look forward to going back again this year.

22 (19m 24s):
So I started learning Polish two years ago this summer. I had a long immersive stay there for over a month. My experience was incredible and Airbnb was a key part of that because it put me right into the middle of regular life there and I really got a great feel for what it's like to live in Poland. So Zo

23 (19m 44s):
So what happens is Airbnb is a marketplace and so the way it started was a lot of just regular people saw the original conceit and followed it to the letter. They were like, oh, here's my room, here's my couch, here's sort of this apartment over my garage. It did well and and obviously like really quickly kind of blew up. But you know, anytime something like that happens and becomes successful, anyone else with more resources can come in and use the platform in the same way. But take advantage of it. In tech companies, the way that they were funded, you know, they can't just do well and stay the same. They have to keep growing. And so in the case of Airbnb, that kind of has just meant slowly over time. They've just started to grow in the same direction as the hotel industry, which is what they were trying to replace.

23 (20m 29s):
I think a big way that this sort of started to move in a more commercialized direction is people who had second homes or vacation homes, things like that, they realized, oh I can rent that out on the platform. And so it's not just a room and it's an entire home, which like full disclosure is usually always what I opt for when I use Airbnb. So it's not that it's a bad thing, but it's not Airbnb's original conceit. You know, the host isn't there. It goes from a host kind of welcoming you in, showing you around giving you recommendations to, you know, key this into the lockbox to get the key. The recommendations are on the table. It's very impersonal.

22 (21m 4s):
I've got in this little room, it was summertime here in Florida. The AC didn't come in there, the room was over 90 degrees. The fan didn't work. There were cockroaches, ants and there was a fly in the room. We walk in the Airbnb and we did notice that there were cameras throughout the entire house, not just by the door, like was disclosed in the listings. The place was just trashed. It was so gross. But there was nowhere else. So we stuck it out later that night, the host starts messaging me saying that I was going to be kicked out immediately. She also said she was gonna send her brother-in-law to come check on us and kick us out.

22 (21m 48s):
Since then, I have never used Airbnb again.

23 (21m 52s):
Now it's so normal to whatever it is, the sort of price I'm looking for tack at least a hundred extra dollars on top of it. It used to be less common because hosts were, you know, just renting outta room. They would clean themselves. But now that it's become common to do whole properties or that the whole, you know, industry's become so commercialized, I don't, I don't think I've seen a listing without a cleaning fee in years.

0 (22m 13s):
But you have seen listings where they ask you to clean before the cleaner shows up. Pretty

23 (22m 18s):
Much all of them. The issue with that is that the cleaning fee number is kind of arbitrary at this point. Like obviously there are many hosts that are pricing it accurately because they do use the cleaning service. But you know, I spoke to a spokesperson at NerdWallet who had been involved in a study sort of talking to hosts and in many cases the cleaning fee is there to kind of offset any discounts on the daily rate. So what will happen is, in order to compete with these places that have more resources so they can list their properties for less money, these regular hosts are also listing their properties for less money so they can compete in the search and then they'll make up the difference by increasing the cleaning fee. Because there doesn't seem to really be any proof that they have to provide of, of how much the cleaning costs.

23 (23m 3s):
It's just a number they can set. And so I think that has just contributed to this larger confusion, frustration with cleaning fees because they feel arbitrary. They are somewhat arbitrary and you have to clean anyways.

0 (23m 17s):
So if Airbnb is just a hotel now, I feel like they should just incorporate their cleaning fees into the actual price and people will be a lot less mad about the sticker shock.

23 (23m 28s):
Right? And so one thing they have done to kind of address this problem is there's a new toggle when you search. There's now an option to just show total price and it includes the fees. That's kind of one way to get around it if you wanna get the full picture. But you know, I think in general, if Airbnb is gonna be more like hotels, things like the cleaning service of hotels, those are, those are staff. Many of them are in unions or they have wage requirements, they have hours, things like that. It's just, I ironic really 'cause it's just, if it wants to sort of solve these problems, it's going to have to accept that Airbnb is just kind of a different hotel platform.

0 (24m 4s):
Where does this leave us? Because Airbnb is still wildly popular, but in some cities they're trying to restrict it. But I guess in other cities it's still just the wild west of short-term rentals. Is Airbnb ever gonna like self-regulate to just say, here's a new policy that'll fix this problem? Yeah,

23 (24m 22s):
So Airbnb does seem to be making some efforts to kind of go back to the, its original vibe. They introduced something which is, you know, kind of a rebranding of their original concept is called Airbnb Rooms. The whole point is you're booking a room in someone's larger home, you get provided like a little booklet on that host. It's, it's really meant to foster sort of a relationship. Going back to that, that the unique way Airbnb first started, It's one of those things where it's like, it's gonna be hard to put the worm back in the cans because so many of of these property owners and management companies have figured out a way to make a decent living off of just kind of renting out properties externally.

23 (25m 3s):
I just think we're going to see a lot more regulation and hopefully a little bit more unified regulation so we're not just having like wildly different specific rules for each city. Not even each state, each city. And it'll, it'll start to be something that it's a bit more consistent, which ironically is exactly what kind of happened to the hotel industry.

0 (25m 25s):
That was Kate Lindsay. She writes an internet culture newsletter called Embedded. you can find it@embedded.sub.com. Our program today was produced by SI Petros. She had help from Amina, Aldi, Matthew Collette, Laura Bullard, Serena Solin, T Nguyen, Patrick Boyd, David Herman, and you. Thank you for calling in with your Airbnb stories. I'm Sean Ramis from the rest of today. Explain team includes my co-host, Noel King, duh, but also our executive producer, Miranda Kennedy, Haddi mdi, Amanda Lu, Ellen, Isabelle, angel, John Aarons, Abbi, shy, artsy, Victoria Chamberlain, miles Bryan, Rob Byers, and Halima s Shah, who is somehow only turning 30 today.

0 (26m 5s):
Happy birthday Halima. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder in a totally non-exclusive way today. Explained is distributed by W N Y C. The show is a part of Box, which is totally free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners, join us at Vox dot com slash give.