1 (0s):
covid

3 (6s):
it's Tuesday, April 14th, 2020 pretty overcast in Washington DC. But no rain and the news that you could kind of see coming Barack Obama has endorsed Joe Biden. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained Joe Biden's Chief competition President. Donald Trump appears to be walking back his statement that he has total authority to reopen the country whenever he wants today. He said he'd make that decision in

1 (31s):
conjunction in quotes

3 (32s):
with Governor's across the country. Meanwhile Governor's on both. They're coming together to say they'll coordinate within their regions to figure out how to best reopen for business. Italy and Spain are taking baby steps in that direction. Italy is opening up some stores while still under lockdown Spain is reopening some factories and construction sites. We're at about 2 million coronavirus cases across the planet the biggest outbreaks remain in the United States western Europe Iran and turkey and China though Brazil and Russia have tens of thousands of confirmed cases and Counting India has now officially extended the world's biggest lockdown prime minister.

3 (1m 13s):
Narendra Modi asked a billion people to stay at home through early May at least he said if we have patience, we will defeat the coronavirus you will need patience. If you love the Tour de France, it's been postponed for the first time since the end of World War Two but it looks good. If you're into wrestling Florida's governor, Rhonda Santa said that when it comes to the World Wrestling Entertainment organization, The Show Must Go On Florida man today explain would like to hear from you but also your favorite young people what questions do they have for us about this pandemic

1 (1m 46s):
about germs about what to do when they get to the end of The Legend of Zelda on the

3 (1m 51s):
switch there get them to call and leave us a message at two zero two six eight eight five nine four four with their questions, but also name age and city today explained is for the

1 (2m 1s):
children.

3 (2m 2s):
sometimes Have you guys heard science versus not science versus something? It's just called science versus it's a podcast from gimlet. It takes on the messy world of news and internet fights to find out what's real. And what's not and what somewhere in between maybe you've heard about all the conspiracy theories related to this coronavirus science versus might be a good place to go figure out. What's what in that Arena this season. They are tackling the coronavirus. They're answering questions. Like should we all be wearing homemade masks? Should you be disinfecting everything you bring home from the grocery store science versus takes on fads and Trends and the opinionated mob that you keep hearing from on WhatsApp to find out what's fact what's not and what somewhere in between check them out for free on Spotify.

3 (3m 15s):
This coronavirus pandemic has changed who we call Heroes. It's not just doctors and nurses and EMT workers anymore. Now, it's our delivery. People are Food Service employees are public transit workers these people who have always been essential are finally being That such Liz Warren has a plan for them vice president Pence is hailing their service to the country. Tom Hanks is shouting them out on Saturday Night Live, but a lot of them are suffering now more than ever take Terrence wise. He's a manager and a McDonald's in Kansas City, Missouri and has been advocating for fast food workers since well before this crisis with fight for 15.

3 (3m 56s):
It's an effort to raise the minimum wage and unionize fast food restaurants,

1 (4m 1s):
you know before the coronavirus pandemic me and my fiance who's a full-time home health care worker will me my fianc? my three little girls. We were homeless, you know, it was us five living in the basement of my sister-in-law's house and she's got six in our household. So, you know, we had 11 and a three-bedroom one-bath house. So, you know, we're supposed to practice social distancing and all of that but we had 11 People Under One Roof and you know, right after that, you know, the school started closing not only here in Kansas City, but across the country Country so it's been a struggle, you know with childcare for the girls. And now you got to feed them three times a day because schools closed and then, you know going into the workplace since the coronavirus pandemic.

1 (4m 46s):
I think the number one thing and it's been impacted not only fast food workers, but everyone has been the mental aspect of it, you know being afraid and on edge. I've been you know, a full-time worker my whole life. I'm 40 years old. We've never seen anything like this. So to just go to work with the the fear of going to work and and something going wrong is one thing and I'm normally a full-time worker, you know, a manager 40 hours a week and for the past three weeks. I've been only getting 28 hours a week, you know, so not only have I been impacted mentally but the financial challenges today and coming forward going into the future.

1 (5m 27s):
It's going to be some trying times. You know, did you have benefits When you're at 40 hours? No, Ben. It's no healthcare. No Dental, no paid sick leave vacation time. No benefits whatsoever. Even though I'm a full-time worker and a manager, you know, so the difference between going from 4228 is mostly that. You're just making x amount less money. It's been like that across the board not only in my shop, but across the board like I'm down to 28 hours a week. Some workers have been taken off the schedule all together. And is that because business is slowing down. We normally do about nine thousand dollars a day at my shop and recently we have saying about 7,500 a day.

1 (6m 10s):
So sales are down about 20% and when I try to explain to folks yes sales are down, but we have a labor Target at McDonald's as well. We're supposed to do 21% labor every day, which is 21 percent of the cells and for the past three weeks. We've been doing Seventeen eighteen percent. We have fewer workers on the schedule. We're supposed to practice social Things so we have five workers on each shift at all time, but it's still impossible to practice social distancing and the McDonald's environment, you know, keep the six feet from each other and customers so that plans not been working. But what fewer workers even though the sales have been lower.

1 (6m 50s):
We've still been busy and what it actually means is running 17 and 18 percent labor as we should have two to three more workers to handle the traffic that we have coming through so even though Our hours are down sales are down. We're still making profit and the few workers that we have. It's really wearing on them because they're working harder now. Tell me what if anything McDonald's is doing to keep you guys safe right now, you know, their response is just to simplify. It's been week. You know, we've been organizing not only here in Kansas City, but across the country to fight and win protections that we should already have.

1 (7m 31s):
We've been fighting for protective equipment. Mask and gloves that have been non-existence sneeze guards, you know, we've been fighting for hazard pay of at least three dollars. We've been fighting for the ability to get paid sick leave if we get sick, you know recently. I've been sick tried to call in the work and was pressured by my manager to come to work. So we've been fighting for all these protections and McDonald's is, you know been lacking in their response. We were on a call just just last week with a shareholders and analysts, you know with McDonald's and fight for 15 workers across the country some in California were on the call as well.

1 (8m 14s):
And you know, we laid our demands out for the hazard pay for protective equipment and the paid sick leave. If one were sick the ability to get tested and the day after we aired out these grievances I came to work and we had masks for the first time. This was like two days ago. So, you know that we saw that as a victory in a and then I look to the other side like that. That's not right. We have to fight and demand the ability to be protected as anyone around you your colleagues your co-workers family members gotten sick poll worker moms in a group session like therapy where she meets with a group of folks weekly and she attended the session and they alerted her and let her know that you know, you were in contact with someone who has covid-19 and she had worked this shift after this exposure.

1 (9m 8s):
I worked with her. I actually took her home that night when we got off and she of course the next day lift the job know she called McDonald's and told them and they told her that she needs to stay away from work for 14 days. They didn't offer her to get tested. They didn't offer me to get tested. They didn't do a thorough cleaning of our store any of that. They just told her to stay away from 14 days. Isn't she can come back and she has an apartment? She has a life. So that's 14 days of no work was she won't be paid and I can tell you for few days after that. Not only was I on edge. I know everyone in the shop was you know, we were around someone who was exposed and we had no idea what the what the outcome of that situation would be.

1 (9m 55s):
If you had to give McDonald's a grade like between 1 and

3 (9m 58s):
10 on how they're protecting you and making you feel safe right now. What would you give them?

1 (10m 3s):
I would give them a zero. Damn we would have to go below the skill, you know, being a part of the fight for 15 and a union movement, you know, the the need for paid sick leave and protections. It's really been highlighted by the coronavirus pandemic, but we've been fighting for these protections for seven years now and McDonald's, you know, this is not a mom-and-pop shop. This is a global brand a billion dollar Corporation and they have a greater responsibility not only to the customers we serve but if their workers And their response and whole is been weak. Now we know they they've announced that they've going to give 5% of their stores two weeks of paid sick leave if you test positive for the coronavirus and then that's verified now, they're not offering the test.

1 (10m 51s):
You gotta go get it done. You got to be tested then test positive to get two weeks of paid leave and it's only for five percent of their corporate stores and not only that they've been busy in This lobbying against worker protections. So McDonald's has been busy doing all the wrong things and their response to ensuring that the workers are safe in the public is safe has been lacking, you know, it's funny to think of McDonald's as is unable to fulfill the needs of its workers because it is such a huge corporation. But obviously the government is stepping up and stepping in here

3 (11m 27s):
to protect American workers. Everyone's getting a check in the

1 (11m 30s):
mail. Do you feel like we're McDonald Is slipping the government has your back? No, and when you think about it, the you know, the proposed stimulus package and and every little bit helps. Let's let's be clear workers need every bit that they can get but when you're talking about a thousand dollar stimulus check, let's just say that my mortgage before I was homeless was $1200 a month. That's not counting food gas in the car is to get the work basic necessities. So you talk about a stimulus package. Age of a thousand that's like putting a Band-Aid on a gash. What does my life look like in workers life look like one month from now to three months down the road.

1 (12m 13s):
So we're going to need a lot more than just a one-time Band-Aid, you know to help fix not only what's going on in workers lives, but to help them and McDonald's, you know in general doesn't have to wait on legislation, you know, the government to subsidize their workers would food stamps or assistance they Can make changes now but not enough is being done by corporations or our elected leaders to make life easier for what we call Essential workers. You hear me? Sure. I mean you see these

3 (12m 45s):
sort of one-off Labor actions being organized in different places across the country fast food workers in California Amazon staff in New York. I know you're no stranger to labor action yourself. Do you think there's a chance here for essential workers like you across the country to do something big We

1 (13m 3s):
know in the labor movement. It's not about how big it can get. It's got to get bigger because we know folks with power don't give it up willingly and we know his workers that when you look back even as the history of our country not only do we have the bloodiest labor history out of any country on the globe. But when you look back at our history of our country, nothing has been won or gain in this country without mass movement in organization when you talk about with Is Right civil rights the ability to vote? All of those things were one through a movement, you know of working-class folks coming together and taking action and going on strike is one of the most important Tools in our toolbox.

1 (13m 49s):
Someone died to give me the right to be out here today to stand up and fight. So we got a, you know a cloth that were cut from his the working class and we're happy to live up that tradition and we look forward to escalating that as well.

3 (14m 12s):
Terrance wise manages a McDonald's in Kansas City, Missouri where he says he's gone on strike a dozen times and he might soon make it a Baker's we reached out to McDonald's to ask about Terrence has zero rating on a scale of 1 to 10 a spokesperson wrote back over all this feedback does not represent the feedback. We are hearing from the majority of employees across the country and that McDonald's is implementing Wellness checks providing masks where they're needed most And adding protective barriers among other measures. They said they have the health and well-being of restaurant employees top-of-mind more in a minute on today explained.

3 (14m 58s):
You guys remember Friday show. I hope you heard it. We featured a lady named Dorothy and she said that she's been trying lots of neat things to keep her mind busy while at home alone and and feeling lonely. One of them was learning Italian. I believe there's a great opportunity right now to pick up that language. You've always been trying to pick up because they're all these services to help you in your quest to learn a new language. One of them is called. Bable bable is an app designed to get you speaking a new language and just a few weeks with daily lessons. You can knock out in 15 minutes or less and we're not talking about like random Snippets of vocab here Babel teaches real life conversations through interactive dialogue that mirrors how people actually communicate lucky for you Babble offers 14 different languages including French Spanish Italian and German.

3 (15m 55s):
Ooh la la And plenty more that your high school probably didn't offer right now Babel is offering today explain listeners, three months free with the purchase of a three-month subscription with the promo code explained go to babble.com and use the promo code explained on your three-month subscription. That is be a BBE l.com from a coda explained. Hey, it's Kara Swisher. You may know me as the only person who looks cool wearing sunglasses indoors. But in my spare time, I host a podcast called Rico decode every week. We talk about power change in the people. You need to know around Tech and Beyond some of my recent guests include Edward Snowden Megan Rapinoe and the cast of The L Word which was a huge thrill for me.

3 (16m 41s):
If any of these sound interesting to you, you should listen them now on Rico decode subscribe to the show for free on Apple podcast or in your favorite podcast app to be the first to hear new interviews. Is every

1 (16m 51s):
week?

3 (17m 0s):
All right, we're back. We left off with Terrence saying he's looking forward to an escalation of the strikes were seeing in places like California New York with workers across Industries demanding better pay and protections. I asked Professor jameelah Michener if there's a chance labor groups could get together and organize for better conditions across Industries. She's a professor at Cornell who focuses on how policy affects low-income people. Well, I think if there's potential it's here now because the depth of Grievances and the fact that people are literally putting their lives at risk to provide essential Services creates a kind of context that we couldn't have imagined or predicted but is also a bit of a Tinderbox that is a kind of ripe context for people to respond in maybe ways.

3 (17m 50s):
We wouldn't have expected and that are unprecedented and there's a name for this type of Labor action, right? It's a general strike. Exactly is that so a general strike is a strike that's not limited to a specific trade or occupation or employer. So it's not like GM workers striking or McDonald's workers striking. It's really when the strike transcends those individual companies are individual occupations and its workers on a broader level uniting to fight for a kind of similar set of Demands. And when was the last time

1 (18m 26s):
Knotted States or something like that

3 (18m 28s):
all you know, I don't know that there's complete agreement on that. But you know, there was a general strike in Oakland and 1946. We might think about that as the last time but not many people know about it. I think that the kind of seminal example of this that really looms largest and everyone's mind historically is the Seattle general strike of

1 (18m 50s):
1919

3 (18m 56s):
it was Is the kind of first general strike of the 20th century and the biggest and I think most impactful one pretty much a century ago interestingly is like the last time we had a wide-scale global

1 (19m 9s):
pandemic was as I think 1918 with the Spanish flu, right?

3 (19m 13s):
Exactly. So this was in the wake of that and also, you know following the end of the first world war and so people had been sacrificing during the war. They had been dealing with frozen wages and been told that they were Not for the sake of the country and for the sake of democracy and things like that and and then when the war ended the wages stayed frozen and so after years of sacrifice and after suffering through a pandemic people had had enough and we saw kind of massive strike and it was across Industries. It started with a shipyard workers, but it went beyond them and workers all over the city of Seattle coordinated and shut down the city for for Entire days, so it was pretty unprecedented and we haven't seen anything of that scale since then honestly did workers get what they were asking for it.

3 (20m 6s):
Did they get better wages to they get better benefits treatment. They did not so in a concrete sense the strike was not successful. There was a lot of pushback. This was also, you know, just a few years after the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia. So everyone was super afraid of Communism and this was viewed as kind of Potential harbinger of Communism and so there was a lot of pushback in the officials who were in charge with negotiating in particular with the shipyard workers who had begun the strike they didn't capitulate and they didn't provide wage increases or do many of the different things that the workers were asking for so by concrete metrics, this was a failure, but I think by a broader metric which was the long-term impact that it had it was very much a success.

3 (20m 58s):
There were strikes that followed on this pretty major strikes in San Francisco in 1934. San Francisco's ever smoldering labor War breaks out a new with uniformed union members parading in protest against their employers this strike stands as kind of example of possibilities in the u.s. We are asking for a general strike to keep organized labor on the Pacific coast. We're not only happy 4th, but we're going to get it. So it's had a long term effect in terms of how its shaped the labor. The movement and the possibilities for labor in the United States, but it didn't result in concrete games for the people who actually participated in the

1 (21m 35s):
strike. Hmm. So they just ended up going back to work

3 (21m 38s):
they did and then some of the kind of the Salient people who were involved at that time were actually arrested and they were charged with, you know, being communist and things like that, but I think that this shows that that was a political context where the risk was huge and people still did this They still took that step. So it tells us a lot about the possibilities I think and what about the risk and possibilities now, you know a hundred years later. You've got vice president Pence praising food workers and calling them vital and saying they need to step up and feed America. Meanwhile people like Terrence are saying they want to strike to demand better conditions during this pandemic, but it's kind of hard to strike when you're not supposed to go outside or near other people.

3 (22m 27s):
I do think it makes it hard, you know something that happened in the 1919 strike was a really sophisticated and high level of coordination people work together. They made sure that basic needs were still met during the strike and that just required to a certain extent being around each other and we can't do that right now at the same time. A lot of the workers that were talking about our workers whose jobs were mediated through technology. Anyway, so there Used to engaging the world in ways other than being physically proximate are physically close to someone. So while I think that the pandemic makes it hard in the sense of physical distance, there are possibilities that remain regardless of that.

3 (23m 11s):
I think a higher bar as far as difficulty is just how difficult it is to look beyond your own material needs right now your health your Wellness that of your family's food on the table rent being paid and when people Pilar thinking about those needs it's harder for them to kind of coordinate and work with others and organized at the same time. Those very needs can be a motivation to do more than you may have done before because you're desperate times in our lives. We all have pain, you know, I saw this Walmart commercial this weekend with Bill Withers Lean On Me playing and and the message is like Salute Your Walmart Heroes and I was like is Walmart saluting?

3 (24m 0s):
It's Walmart Heroes right now. Are they giving people? How much did they pay to license Bill Withers Lean On Me because they have distributed that money to their workers and give them some some some Solace some Financial Safety Net in this moment. I mean,

1 (24m 14s):
it seems like

3 (24m 15s):
workers have America's attention right

1 (24m 18s):
now. Is there something they can do if a

3 (24m 21s):
general strike is Out Of Reach. What can they do instead? What workers can do is really we build on that maybe not in terms of a general strike, but in terms of the kind of level of connection organizing that's happening among themselves, you know, my nephew works at an Amazon warehouse in Queens actually because a few people there, you know came down with the virus and there was lots going on and when I talked to him about these things he's super aware of the strikes and of the discussion around striking and and he's Someone who's very political and who thinks about these things outside of this context and in normal life.

3 (25m 3s):
So the fact that workers are recognizing not just that the public is recognizing their importance, but that they're recognizing their own importance that they're recognizing that in order for Americans to be able to live the lives that they want to live. They need people packing their Amazon boxes and delivering their food and Etc that's self recognition of their importance I think is the first First step towards continuing to build Beyond this pandemic. So, you know, there's the question of do we think a strike can happen right now during all of this and I think that's that's a high calling and one that is probably not quite possible.

3 (25m 43s):
But then there's another question of do we think that some Foundation can be laid now in terms of altering the way that workers see themselves and altering the way that the public sees workers so that a year from now or two years from now. After some work has been done some organizing his happen. We might see something closer to a general strike. I think if we stretch the time Horizon that way then then there is much more that it's

1 (26m 9s):
possible. Is it too late though? Is it too late in two years when people have maybe even forgotten how

3 (26m 16s):
grateful they were to their grocery store workers back in that pandemic and in the spring of 2020. It may be I mean, I wouldn't if there were if there's a real possibility now, I wouldn't say wait right, but if it doesn't look like things are going to move in that direction now, I don't know that I would say that the moment will have passed two years from now. We're looking at a long road of economic struggle. Ahead of us and that doesn't go away even when the most intense part of this pandemic wanes and I think people are going to continue to have deep needs. I think people are going to continue to recognize you know, that they're not getting a lot from their employers that they're very insecure economically that their families are not cared for in the way that they should be given how much work they're doing and these issues are going to continue to like Late and be a part of the public conversation whether or not it will be too late two years from now is going to depend on what happens between now and then, you know, the strike and Seattle didn't Bubble Up just out of nowhere.

3 (27m 25s):
There were people on the ground working for years beforehand to make something like that possible to connect different unions to each other to connect workers to each other who previously didn't understand their Fates as linked. I think if this moment can spark that Activity then two years from now might exactly be when those things have built up to the point that the capacity is there to really organize people to push back. Jameelah, Michener is a professor in the government Department over at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York.

3 (28m 6s):
She's got a book. It's called fragmented democracy Medicaid federalism and unequal politics, maybe see if there's a way to find it at your local bookstore and you know, tell your essential workers how much you appreciate them and you know, maybe ask if they're accepting tips if you can afford it in the immortal words of Kanye West if you admire somebody you should go ahead and tell them people never forget the flowers while they can still smell him. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today explained.