1 (17s):
Happy new year, we made it to 2021. And if you were hoping this was the year, you could start thinking more about a new president and less about the old president. Well, the old president has other plans.

2 (29s):
There is no way I lost Georgia. There is no way we won by hundreds of thousands of votes.

1 (34s):
The Washington post rang in the new year with some explosive audio on Sunday, the outgoing president desperately dumbfounding li agonizingly begging for Georgia to reverse its election results in his favor and know not the election that it hasn't happened yet. Not Tuesday's runoffs. He's still hung up on the one that feels like a short lifetime ago. The tape yesterday showed that that Trump is still very wrapped up in an election that happened now two months ago. And it is not as focused on, I would say that the Senate races happening on Tuesday, Ella Nelson, you covered the white house for Vox. The call is painful to listen to. He starts by saying he should have one because more people showed up to his rallies in Georgia during the pandemic.

1 (1m 19s):
And it just descends into his pathology from there. What is pertinent? If anything? I think that the line that jumped out to, to everyone is when he tells Georgia secretary of state Brad Rapids burger.

2 (1m 32s):
So the last I want to do is just, I just want to find 11,780 <inaudible>, which is one more than we have, because we want to say it.

1 (1m 47s):
Oh no. He's literally directing the Georgia secretary of state to find votes that are not there. I mean, it was kind of wild is to listen to you. I mean, I guess we have sort of known for awhile that Trump lives in a different reality than reality, but it, it was, it was like listening to two people operating from two completely different worlds, basically,

2 (2m 10s):
But you should want to have an accurate and election and your Republican. We believe that we do have an accurate election.

1 (2m 18s):
How does Georgia secretary of state respond? He was very calm and very measured on the line.

2 (2m 25s):
Well, Mr. President determines that you have is the data you have is wrong.

1 (2m 29s):
He had his lawyer there as well to back him up on certain things.

2 (2m 33s):
W what we're saying is not at all, what your describing these are, investigator's from our office. These are investigators from GBI and they're looking and their good, and that's not what they're seeing.

1 (2m 47s):
Basically. You know, he just very calmly and politely told Trump, look, Mr. President, the data that you have is, is not real

2 (2m 55s):
Mr. President of the problem you have with social media, they can, people can say, you know, this is the social, and this is drunk Media, but it does. It's, it's really not. It's not social media. I don't care about social, but I couldn't care. Less. Social media is big tech, big tech is on your side. You know, I don't even know why you have a side because you should want to have an accurate and election.

1 (3m 18s):
What's the, what's the response been since? How did Congress respond to this call? Well, I mean, Congress was having a pretty busy day of its own yesterday. The house and Senate were both swearing and new members and how speaker Nancy Pelosi was reelected on a narrow vote as the speaker of the house. It is

3 (3m 38s):
Great honor to preside of this sacred ritual of renewal. As we gather under the dome of this temple of democracy to begin the 117th Congress

1 (3m 54s):
Over in the Senate, you know, that that outcome has not been determined yet because the Georgia races will determine whether Democrats or Republicans control the Senate. And so, yeah, I mean, I think that some members of Congress expressed outrage and worry, there were some moderate Republicans like Senator Mitt Romney who have been talking about how it's, it's outrageous that a faction of Republican senators and Republican house members are going to try to object to certify me election on January 6th, the presidential election. That is, but I would say that, you know, the response to the president's phone call kind of fell along partisan lines again, where it was, you know, Democrats and some moderate Republicans speaking out against it.

1 (4m 38s):
But then Trump supporters either didn't really acknowledge it, or, you know, it, it seems like they're not going to do anything other than double down on their support for the president at best. There are a lot of problematic insinuations on this call at worst. You, you have the outgoing president of the United States bullying and threatening criminal charges. If the election results aren't changed illegitimately, is that even legal, bro? It doesn't appear to be, although it could violate Georgia's state law, intimidating elections officials, and you know, all of that, not good stuff. And actually two house Democrats are now asking the FBI director, Christopher Ray, to open a criminal probe on whether Trump violated the law specifically around this phone call.

1 (5m 29s):
There's Congressman Ted lieu of California and Kathleen Rice of New York, who wrote a letter to Christopher Ray on Monday asking him to open an immediate criminal investigation to the president. So we don't know yet whether Ray is going to do that, but house Democrats are very angry and I want to see action taken. Do we have any idea where this tape came from? I think that it was sort of assumed that it was leaked by the secretary of state's office. And you have to remember that this is secretary of state's office that has just been under strain basically since the presidential election in November to their credit raffinose Berger. And Georgia governor Brian Kemp are both fairly conservative Republicans.

1 (6m 11s):
Rathmines burger said that he personally voted for Trump.

4 (6m 15s):
I'm a passionate conservative. And as I said before, I'm a proud Trump supporter,

1 (6m 19s):
But you know, he has received death threats, other people that work at the secretary of state's office and other lower level election officials, and Georgia have received death threats or other threats of violence. He's somebody that has just been targeted by Trump and Trump's supporters relentlessly since November 3rd, simply because Trump did not win the election in Georgia

4 (6m 40s):
Even after this office requests that president Trump try and quel the violent rhetoric being born out of his continuing claims of winning the States where he obviously lost, he tweeted out, expose the massive voter fraud in Georgia. This is exactly the kind of language that is at the base of growing threat environment for election workers who are simply doing their jobs.

5 (7m 6s):
How does this compare to everything else he has been up to since losing the presidential election

1 (7m 13s):
Continuation of the rhetoric that we have heard and seen on Twitter and you know, other other forms, but it's different because you know, this is a private phone call that he had with an elected elected state official. And it's very clear, you know, you can't, you can't necessarily talk your way out of this one because it's very clear what he's asking to do. And it's also just very clear that he cares more about this election that he lost than the future of his party, the Republican party, and whether they can keep control of the Senate. It's also, I think the most worrying thing is what it does to people's confidence in the outcome of elections in the future.

1 (7m 56s):
And you know, the outcome of this, the Senate election, if it goes away that Trump doesn't like, or the outcome of, of future elections, because there has been so much doubt cast on this election, even though, you know, election experts inside the U S and also people who were, you know, watching this election from outside of the U S across the board said that this was a very drama free election. That, that went pretty smoothly.

5 (8m 23s):
How much of his party is with them at this point? It seems like even Senate, majority leader, Mitch McConnell would very much like to move on,

1 (8m 32s):
Say that Trump has more friends in the house on this than he does an in the Senate. So right now, you know, on, on Wednesday this week, it, it is time for the house and Senate to basically certify the election results of the presidential election results. And this is normally, you know, just kind of a boring ceremonial thing that they, you know, read results from the States and certify electors. And it's the final thing that you no guarantees that now incoming president elect Joe Biden and incoming vice president Kamel Harris will be sworn in. So this is normally a pretty boring process, but this year there are going to be a certain number of Republicans in the house and Senate that object to this.

5 (9m 15s):
And on the same day as the certification, the outgoing president is planning a rally in DC, right?

1 (9m 22s):
Yeah. So on Wednesday, Trump is saying that he wants his supporters to come to DC to basically join him. And he's going to make some sort of announcement. And I'm in DC right now. And things in the city are pretty tense. You know, the DC mayor issued a statement saying that she doesn't want DC residents basically going downtown on Tuesday or Wednesday, because there have been violent scuffles that have broken out with members of the proud boys that far right group that supports Trump and other pro-Trump protestors. And so she just wants to make sure that there is as little violence as possible with these pro-Trump elements coming into town. It's

5 (9m 58s):
Going to be a tough week, but this might finally be over soon after

1 (10m 5s):
This process in the house and Senate this week. There's nothing else that Trump can really do. I mean, besides, I guess, continuing to spout off of that Georgia was stolen or that the election was stolen from him. I think that he has exhausted all of his options, you know, from challenging things in court to, to this, this thing with certifying electors and the house and Senate, his avenues are now all closed, basically.

5 (10m 33s):
And exhausted as the operative word.

1 (10m 36s):
Yes, everybody is exhausted. Thank you, Ellen. Thank you, Sean.

5 (10m 42s):
After the break, the real election story, and Georgia the runoffs before the break, the Gregory brothers,

0 (10m 49s):
All I want to do is I just want to find one more than the inner parts of the machines and replace them with other parts. I love it.

5 (11m 11s):
It's the new year. You probably got a lot of things you want to do and things you want to do better. Here's one thing you maybe don't have to do make food Today because door dash can get you your next meal, whether your craving, you know, curly fries or cheesecake or ramen, or a really fancy grilled cheese sandwich door dash has like 300,000 partners worldwide, apparently. And you're never going to find an itch that door dash can't scratch. That sounds really generous of them. And I don't know if it's true, but they think it is. And they're willing to, you know, for a limited time offer you 25% and zero delivery fees on your first order of $15 or more when you download the DoorDash app and enter the code Today Explained.

5 (12m 2s):
So you can find out that is 25% off, up to $10 in value and zero delivery fees on your first order, when you download the DoorDash app on the app store and enter the code Today Explained, the code is Today Explained for 25% off your first order with door dash subject to change

6 (12m 21s):
In terms of planning

5 (12m 30s):
Support from the shelter. When it comes from Israel story, a radio show and podcast showcasing long form storytelling from, and about Israel hosted by Mishy Harman. The show is produced in partnership with tablet magazine. It tells extraordinary stories about regular people living in Israel, the kind you might not find anywhere else. Israel story is often called the Israeli, this American life, and fans include IRA glass himself. And that's just it. The show presents quirky on predictable interesting and moving stories about a place we think we know a lot about, but really don't subscribe, listening to enjoy Israel's story. Today wherever you get your podcasts,

6 (13m 17s):
Ladies and Johns. Welcome to the Georgia. Senate runoffs, the heaviest of heavyweight runoff elections in the history of the Republic with the potential to once again, tip red to blue, what the upper chamber of the Congress, the United States Senate hanging in the balance. This is the moment you've all been waiting for him. And without further do your contestants in the corner to my left, Republican David Purdue,

7 (13m 47s):
David Perdue, he is best known for sort of his business ties. You know, he, he ran Reebok athletics, dollar general, and he had no political experience before he ran in 2014. And David Perdue is an ardent Trump supporter in 2016, there were only two United States senators who is supportive.

6 (14m 11s):
You Donald Trump. And you're looking at one of them.

7 (14m 16s):
He is very well-liked in the South. There's been a big attachment to sort of the more rural parts of Georgia thinking about the farms or some of the devastation that happened from hurricanes and trying to get relief for, for those folks. And he's, he's pretty, anti-immigrant, he's been part of introducing legislation that is aimed to limit the number of immigrants coming into this country or extended green card. So yeah, I would say David Purdue pretty much aligns with a lot of the Trump agenda

6 (14m 50s):
In the corner up my right Democrat, John Asaf.

7 (14m 56s):
Yeah. So Jon Ossoff, his kind of on the total opposite end of the spectrum of David Purdue OSS office from Metro Atlanta. He's not really been in politics otherwise before 2017. So, you know, before then he's running a media company he's, you know, investigating corporations, all kinds of documentary work, and he's really been calling out Purdue on frankly not being present. I think folks here certainly talk about the debate that the two of them were supposed to have. And Senator Purdue just didn't show like Ossoff had a debate with the chair as the chair.

7 (15m 37s):
I won't stand for this. And you know, it was, it, it was a great television moment because it's really, I think a great symbol of the point that he was trying to paint

8 (15m 49s):
Senator Perdue, hadn't held a public town hall meeting in six years. He feels entitled to this seat, but this is not David Purdue. Senate see, this is the people's Senate seat and the people who are going to come out and vote on January 5th,

7 (16m 2s):
The claimant. And it's been interesting that Purdue by and large has not been attacking Ossoff by name. He's really calling out the democratic party, but he's really not engaging with Ossoff in the way that I think a lot of people thought he might.

6 (16m 18s):
And then the second ring we have Republican Senator Kelly left LA

7 (16m 23s):
She's actually not from Georgia. She's from rural Illinois. And she is married to the chair of the New York stock exchange. And in 2010, she actually purchased the WWE NBA team here, the Atlanta dream. And there's actually been a lot of really interesting controversy coming up there this year because a lot of the WWE NBA fan base, a lot of the players tend to be more democratic leaning, you know, and there's actually the WNB is noted for being some of the first players who wore black lives matter shirts. They were actually fined by the league and Leffler has been very outspoken against black lives matter.

7 (17m 7s):
She's really taken a lot of opposition to both the movement and engagement with it, to the point where Atlanta dream players at this summer were wearing vote Warnock shirts that talked about LaFleur's opponent and have tried to ask her to sell the team.

6 (17m 23s):
You're still not disagreeing with president Trump's statements about it

8 (17m 28s):
Sexually assaulting women. All right. I'm not familiar with that. The access Hollywood tape he's referring to the access. Yeah, no, look, this president is fighting for America.

7 (17m 38s):
Kelly Leffler was appointed in December of 2019 when Senator Johnny Isaacson said that he was going to be stepping down early from his term for health reasons. President Trump actually really lobbied hard for governor Kemp, governor Brian Kemp, to appoint Doug Collins. There was just a lot of angst and a lot of tension in the Republican party when Kemp decided to appoint Kelly Leffler instead, she was not a Trump pick at all. And this race in particular really highlights a lot of the tension. And some of the splitting that might be happening and is happening in the Republican party.

6 (18m 22s):
Bus is Democrat Reverend Raphael Warnock.

7 (18m 26s):
So Raphael Warnock from Savannah, Georgia grew up in the public housing there. He went to Morehouse college, which is a historically black college university. And he went on to become a minister. And he's actually the senior pastor now at Ebeneezer Baptist church, which if that sounds familiar, that's where Dr. Martin Luther King was pastor here and Georgia. And so he is really emblematic of a lot of the, the current, you know, black civil rights movement here in Georgia. He's been very involved in anti-death penalty work.

7 (19m 7s):
He's been very vocal about expunging records for folks who've been incarcerated. He's actually best known for staging a protest in the Georgia state Capitol. In 2014,

6 (19m 21s):
Pastor of Ebenezer Baptist church was arrested today in Washington, DC, Reverend Raphael Warnock was among several religious leaders protesting the proposed budget and the handling of the Republican healthcare bill.

9 (19m 33s):
No doubt. The King said that have all the injustices and inequality in healthcare as the most shocking and the most inhumane. And so when we passed the affordable care act in this country and Georgia refused to expand Medicaid, I thought it was important to stand up.

7 (19m 51s):
He has never dipped his toe into politics, but very well known, certainly among folks in Metro Atlanta and within the larger social justice movements across the state,

6 (20m 4s):
Sasha Friedman, you make the small power Podcast and Atlanta Georgia historically speaking to two Republicans, Leffler and Purdue would be favorite to win here, right? But that's not the case with this election. To me,

7 (20m 16s):
I think for the first time and really 20 years is when it is when we had a Democrat last elected to our state, it really feels like a toss up, you know, and I think there's a couple of reasons for that. One big one that you saw from November is just the massive turnout in a lot of areas that had previously been Republican. And you're starting to see more Democrats registered and voting in those places, namely Cobb County Gwinnett County that is due in large part to huge efforts from organizations like new Georgia project, which is focused on registering black voters.

7 (20m 58s):
You had organizations that were turning out the vote among Asian Americans. So Gwinette has a huge Asian American Pacific Islander population that turned out and large numbers similarly with the Latino vote in Gwinnett County and surrounding areas. So it is really, I think the matter of people who saw the lead that certainly Stacey Abrams and organizers who've been working at this for years and years, this vision that Stacy had almost a decade ago is now really coming to fruition of a totally new coalition. And Georgia

5 (21m 36s):
Basically since the presidential election on November 3rd, there've been attempts to discredit elections all across the country. Has that had an effect and Georgia yeah,

7 (21m 49s):
I think, you know, it's had an effect on, on both Republican and democratic voters, you know, obviously democratic voters here, we're excited about the outcome of the presidential election. And there would be good reason to think that there may not be as big of a turnout for runoff because kind of like we did our part, we're done, you know, we, we did the thing, we flipped Georgia blue. And I think you see those voters staying engaged more than they might otherwise both because obviously there's a lot of talk of, of what hangs in the balance for the Senate, but also seeing this continued effort to discredit the election and votes they're happening.

7 (22m 35s):
And on the Republican side, I think you see this really fine line that a lot of both the voters are trying to walk and the candidates themselves, because I think they see what's at stake. If they lose control of the Senate, obviously then you've got Democrats controlling, you know, the white house, the house of representatives and the Senate. And at the same time in endorsing the actual process of the election and encouraging people to even vote is saying that the results are valid from November. And it's hard to tell, you know, which is coming first, if it's turned out is low and they're trying to cover it or that because of what's happening, turnout could be lower or, or frankly just leave a lot of confusion as to what they should be doing.

5 (23m 28s):
What are voters saying? I mean, what, what do people think of this moment?

7 (23m 34s):
There you go. You know, I've seen, I've talked to many folks who are, have said they've never been more excited for the rest of the country to stop talking about Georgia. It seems, I think there's, there's enormous pride in the importance that Georgia has in this election. And it is a tremendous amount of pressure. I think there are some Democrats who feel like if Georgians are not going to be able to elect a democratic senators for both seats and flip the Senate, that's sort of the rest of the, what Biden is, or isn't able to do will kind of be put on Georgia is not being able to turn that out.

7 (24m 14s):
And I think among Republicans, there's, I think a lot of frustration that this is continued to be sort of a, a focal point, you know, that, that there's potential to frankly, be embarrassed and, and have not only Georgia turn blue, but lose to Senate seats that have been Republican for over 20 years. So I think there's obviously a tremendous amount of tension and just wanting to know what, what the results will be to feel like we can move forward, because Georgians have been in this perpetual state of being in electoral politics through the holidays, that electoral politics is still very much point of discussion here.

7 (25m 2s):
Everyone's holding their breath. So yeah, it was Chelsea

0 (25m 16s):
Sasha Friedman host the podcast called small power. It's all about local politics. And Georgia so if you've developed a voracious appetite for that kind of thing, since November small powers to show for you, find it where you find your shows, I'm Sean Ramez from this ones. Today Explained Sam and miles. They're going to play us out.

0 (25m 34s):
<inaudible> all right.

10 (27m 17s):
Things just politically exploded in Houston. When it came out at the police have been the ones who murdered, who was a couple of daughters 40 years ago at Texas community's demand for justice lead to a daring experiment for five young Latino officers, with little training and even fewer resources, they were tasked with solving Houston's toughest crimes in rebuilding trust.

0 (27m 38s):
How would you like to go to homicide? I didn't know what I want to say. It was, none of us knew what we're up to,

10 (27m 43s):
But they were torn between the neighborhoods that raised them. So my friends stopped talking to me after I told them I had joined the police department and the badges, they will,

0 (27m 52s):
I had a Mexican flag on my desk and they came over and told me the Lieutenant is more than the Mexican flag over there.

10 (27m 58s):
My name is Christina Alonzo, and this is the story of the Chicano school

0 (28m 3s):
I worked. So many who've done is that I used to have the sand. If you could just throw me fingernail, I will find you the killer

10 (28m 10s):
Subscribe to Chicano squat through the Vox media podcast network on Spotify or wherever you listen.