1 (33s):
It's today explained I'm Sean Rama's room. This is our 1000th episode, and I am thus joined by my cohost Noel king. Hey Sean. Great to have you great to be here. And as we come together to make this thousands episode, I'm told you want to talk about breaking

2 (49s):
Up. That is the story. Yeah.

1 (51s):
Why are you doing this to me, Noel? Because it's a really good story.

2 (54s):
What is it about? All right, so you and I share a journalistic interest in how the country is doing, right. We talk about this a lot. This is true. And so one of the questions that we're always asking ourselves is, is the United States staying United? Is it falling apart? We hear lots of dire things. How bad is it? Really? And then a couple of weeks ago, our producer miles, Brian sent me a new story out of Atlanta. And I thought, oh,

1 (1m 18s):
That's it. What's going on in Atlanta.

2 (1m 24s):
There's a neighborhood in Atlanta called Buckhead. It is very wealthy. It is very fancy. So we're talking about malls and a lot of mansions. It's where the CEO's live. It's where some of the real Housewives of Atlanta live, Cardi B and offset have a house there. They have a gun range inside the house. So you've got this really fancy part of the city. Some people in Buckhead want to secede from the rest of Atlanta. They want their own city with their own stuff and they want to leave Atlanta behind.

1 (1m 56s):
So I take it. We're going to bucket. We're going to

2 (1m 58s):
Buckhead. I started with the guy who's leading the effort to get Buckhead out of Atlanta. He is an operator. His name is bill white. He moved to Atlanta from New York a couple of years ago in New York. He was a big time fundraiser first for Hillary Clinton. And then for Donald Trump. Wow. Yeah, he's he's complicated. He's fluid. Bill white has been the public face of this movement. He's been the guy all over the TV in the newspaper. So I went down to his office to meet him. You are the fellow who's causing all of the trouble here in Atlanta.

3 (2m 32s):
I don't think I'm causing any trouble. I think Atlanta has caused a lot of trouble here in Atlanta.

2 (2m 40s):
So give me a sense of when this started to germinate in your mind. And when you decided Buckhead, shouldn't be part of Atlanta. What happened? Yeah.

3 (2m 47s):
Th so the families in Buckhead feel like they've been exploited by the city of Atlanta, for way too long. They are overpaying and their taxes. They are not getting proper police protection. They're not getting their streets paved. They're not getting a good return on their investment in the Atlanta public school system. You start to say, you know, taxation without representation. Isn't a fun experience. And when you get robbed at the gas station or carjacked at a store, or you get shot at you starting to say, what is going on, we start to feel like we're living in a war zone. And then it became personal because I had a call from my sister-in-law whose house was home invaded.

3 (3m 35s):
And they were not home with a rock,

2 (3m 37s):
Like

3 (3m 39s):
Completely violated a broken windows, safe, broken into all that. Shortly after that two lovely folks came up our driveway to steal our car out of our garage, all caught on a videotape. My husband says, oh my God, there's people, you know, in our driveway. And they're getting out of the car to go into the garage. The garage was open. The gates were open, right?

2 (4m 6s):
And there was no way just as a person from a small town, upstate New York, there was no way they were coming to the house to look for help. There was no way they needed to jump on the battery. No, no. Ma'am the thing is Sean, this is anecdata. This thing happened to me. This thing happened to my sister-in-law

1 (4m 21s):
Right? What is the actual data say here?

2 (4m 23s):
The data shows that between 2019 and 2021, the murder rate did go up in Buckhead. It also went up in the rest of Atlanta. It also went up in many cities across the United States. I talked to a criminologist at Georgia state university Vulcan till Polly. And he told me, Buckhead is still the safest neighborhood in Atlanta.

1 (4m 44s):
I'm guessing that probably wouldn't satisfy bill white and that you two never really saw eye to eye on

2 (4m 51s):
Bill. Doesn't even believe the data that the Atlanta police department provides the

3 (4m 56s):
APD manipulates data.

2 (4m 59s):
But I also wanted to ask bill something really important, which is what happens to the rest of Atlanta. If Buckhead leaves,

3 (5m 6s):
We're creating a new city, right? Which will be much less corrupt. It will be much less bloated

2 (5m 13s):
Bill. Yeah. It will also be much richer and much wider than the city of Atlanta as a whole,

3 (5m 22s):
You know, it's, it's

2 (5m 24s):
A fact. Tell me why you think it's discussing when it is a fact,

3 (5m 28s):
He has a list of our support is 100% diverse. We're the most diverse community in Atlanta. It has nothing to do.

2 (5m 36s):
You don't mean Buckhead. Buckhead

3 (5m 38s):
Is the most diverse community in Atlanta. Cat

2 (5m 41s):
Is whiter than the rest of Atlanta.

3 (5m 44s):
So that has nothing to do with stopping crime. That has nothing to do with keeping our taxes

2 (5m 50s):
Or ordinary living, nothing to

3 (5m 52s):
Do with fixing

2 (5m 52s):
Potholes.

3 (5m 54s):
It has nothing to do with answering our 9 1 1 calls. The only thing that has to do with race with buckets, city movement is the human race. That's it? Thank you. Nice meeting you.

2 (6m 6s):
Yeah. Well, CAD as a neighborhood is more than 70% white. That is not the demographic of Atlanta. It's just not. So bill, as I've said is an operator. He is not confined by facts and data. So I wanted to talk to some people who live in Buckhead, just regular people and ask them, are you experiencing what bill is saying? So I went to this mall that is designed to look like rodeo drive in Los Angeles. And I went to a little shared office that's right next to the Spanx headquarters.

1 (6m 41s):
Like the successful shapewear company.

2 (6m 44s):
Yes, the very one. Okay. I was there to meet two women who live in Buckhead. It Vieta Alexander ISTEP is and her wife, Jade, Alexandra says, check, check, check, check.

4 (6m 56s):
Welcome to Atlanta. Thank you so much.

2 (7m 0s):
Welcome to Buckhead. Your vibe is very hyper successful. 30 something look great. Feel great. Live great. Is that fair?

5 (7m 10s):
I think that's fair.

2 (7m 11s):
These ladies want Buckhead to secede from Atlanta. How come they told me about something that happened in the summer of 2020? So you remember this is not long after George Floyd is killed. There are protests in lots of American cities. Some of them turned violent in Atlanta. There was a protest that started downtown, perfectly peaceful, and then people start going north into Buckhead. And by the time night falls, it's gotten violent.

5 (7m 37s):
Okay. What's really going on. We went outside and we just see these cars just stopped and police are everywhere. And the fire trucks are everywhere. And we look and we're witnessing the frescoes, which was next door. It's on fire because people have thrown alcohol bottles and thrown fire and just cause this huge just disruption. And we go downstairs in the lobby area and it's, it's pretty nice. And we're like, okay, where's security. Let's make sure that we're kind of protected. And unfortunately the security guard just left. So these are strangers in our corridors, in the lobby area,

2 (8m 15s):
Inside strangers came into the building,

4 (8m 19s):
They vandalized the entire property and they broke into the, this is a Vita. They broke it to the Margianno's right next door. It wasn't something that we could stop. We try to, but our building was completely vandalized. And if you went around Buckhead, they robbed everywhere.

1 (8m 36s):
I mean, I'm feeling empathy for what these two went through that night, but I'm also feeling like does that amount to let's secede from Atlanta?

2 (8m 45s):
I mean, that's the question. Is this an extreme reaction to something that happened all over the country? Really Jade and Avita, I should note are both black women. And so some of this gets really tricky, right?

4 (8m 58s):
I don't even see it as a race or a political thing at all. That's just not valid in any kind of way. Not about

2 (9m 5s):
Jade. What do you think?

5 (9m 6s):
Well, I definitely second with my wife. I feel that ultimately it's that. And again, I work in the human resources industry, so I don't see color. I see people, I see experiences. I see, you know, lifestyle that he thinks that people want to strive for. And I think that, you know, both my wife and I, we've worked extremely hard and wherever we decide to live, if it's in the suburbs or in Buckhead, we want to feel protected.

2 (9m 31s):
Doesn't see color, doesn't see color

1 (9m 33s):
Case for leaving Atlanta. What's the case for keeping Buckhead in it.

2 (9m 39s):
The case for keeping Buckhead in Atlanta is that if Buckhead succeeds, it will destroy the rest of the city. Financially Buckhead contributes a lot of tax dollars to the city of Atlanta. And that money is spread around for sewers and cops and roads and bridges and all the rest of it. Something like 40% of Atlanta's assessed property value is right in that one neighborhood Buckhead. So as you might imagine, there is some very strong resistance to this idea in other parts of Atlanta and you went to one such part. I did, I went to Southwest Atlanta, which is like the

1 (10m 11s):
Opposite part of town

2 (10m 13s):
From Buckhead. That's exactly right. And I met a woman named Trisha Harris who has made it her mission in life over the last couple of months to prevent the succession from happening. Hello, look at your picture. Perfect house girl. You look like you got the American

6 (10m 30s):
Out here. I lucked out with this house. I've never lived on the south side of Atlanta before

2 (10m 35s):
Trisha is so profoundly against this proposition because of her son, Caleb, who, first thing she'll tell you is she's raising him by herself. Kayla is nine years old. He is absolutely adorable. And he's autistic.

6 (10m 48s):
My niece. Kayla, you say Atlanta, public schools and Atlanta public schools think about it like spidey senses. Everything is amplified. It says the sound is this a taste? This is a texture. And he's like 10 foods. So it has to pass every possible test before we'll even touch his tongue is the right color. Is it the right smell? Is it, you know, the right

2 (11m 10s):
Look, he's over experiencing the world. He is

6 (11m 13s):
Exactly. Everything is hyper. Everything is amplified for him.

2 (11m 17s):
Caleb goes to a public school that Tricia absolutely loves. She says it's helping him a lot.

6 (11m 23s):
It is a night and day difference. He talks more. He engages more. His dedicated of Promes Washington is 28, 29 year old black men, Jews rushed. And that's Caleb's most exhaustive exposure on a regular basis to men, to men

2 (11m 41s):
Period. Now the problem is if buckheads succeeds and leaves with their tax dollars, the Atlanta board of education says the schools will lose about $250 million from their every year

6 (11m 55s):
Special education and children are of the most impacted because of the wraparound services, which are funded out of that general fund. That we'd lose 20 to 30% of coming out of buckets. City. I think people are slowly coming to the understanding that if it withdrawals, it's going to destabilize the entire city, the region, the state and our kids.

1 (12m 18s):
Okay. I'm perfectly understanding Trisha here. And yet. I'm also finding myself starting to feel the bucket argument a little bit more right now because you know, they're paying for this incredible education. That's on the opposite side of town, but they feel like they're not getting what they thought was their side of the bargain, which is more safety, more police

2 (12m 43s):
That's right. And what I think is this is happening all over the country. You have communities where people have different levels of wealth and different needs. Some people have a lot, some people have a little, and the question is, can they all live together? If there's not a sense that we owe each other things we're responsible for each other. So what's to be done. What's to be done in my view is to get people together. Like all of these nice ladies we just heard from and see if we can get them to agree on something. Like to

1 (13m 15s):
Get them out of their bubbles. Yeah. Okay.

2 (13m 18s):
Coming up now sounds tricky. It's coming up next.

7 (13m 43s):
It's a new year. So it started off on the right foot. Build a solid financial future for yourself. By checking out wealthfront.com. Wealthfront was designed by financial experts to help you start investing with ease and clarity. If you're just getting started with investing, you can rely on their classic portfolio, but if you're already good at the whole investing thing, you can just use wealth front to simply rebalance your existing portfolio. Wealth front is here to get you invested in what interests you and make informed credible decisions to start building your wealth today and get your first $5,000 managed for free for life.

7 (14m 25s):
Go to wealth. front.com/explained that's w E a L T H F R O N t.com/explained to start building your wealth, go to wealth, front.com/explained to get started today. Cover story. A new podcast from New York magazine is coming back for part two. So far, we've investigated the underground world of psychedelic healing. Now we're going above grounds. I've

2 (14m 59s):
Kicked the door down to be in the FDA clinical trial.

7 (15m 2s):
We're leaving the cults behind for the world of labs and accredited institutions. There are people who are just waiting for this thinking that they're going to be better. And then they're not going to get better. Catch up on cover story. Season one, power trip back March 1st.

2 (15m 24s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. Yeah, you are. Yeah. So Sean, before the break, I told you that we were going to get all of these nice women in a room together to talk it out and that is coming up. But before we do that, I want to tell you that it might seem like this story is a small local one, but it's actually not.

8 (15m 43s):
This is not just a local interest or this is of interest to a lot of people around the country who are being really, really hurt by the crazed management of their woke leaders. Atlanta needs Buckhead. Buckhead does not need Atlanta. And that's true of a lot of places. If they're wrecking your town leave, do

2 (15m 56s):
You know who that was? I want to, but I

7 (15m 58s):
Feel like I don't recognize

2 (16m 1s):
It's Tucker Carlson. That was Tucker Tucker or host of the most popular show on cable news. Talking about Buckhead. Yep. And is this happening in other towns? Can I tell you what I did? I pulled up a list of all 50 us states in alphabetical order. And I went through looking for where this is happening In Anchorage. There's a politically conservative neighborhood called Eagle river. That's trying to secede from Anchorage, which is more politically progressive or liberal Kennedy says, and

7 (16m 34s):
They can make better decisions out there than Ingrid can

2 (16m 37s):
For the community. There's also a decades old movement in Northern California and Southern Oregon to form an entirely new state that would ensure that rural areas have better representation in the government

9 (16m 49s):
Says this is Northern California. So mapmakers in visitors might be a bit confused about this sign claiming this is the state of Jefferson.

2 (17m 1s):
Also in Oregon, some counties in the east are trying to succeed and join Idaho. They say that the Idaho ins just have more similar values.

10 (17m 9s):
They call us, make Idaho where certain people, you know, if they don't want us, they don't want to listen to us. They don't have to have us.

7 (17m 20s):
Are we going to do alphabet

2 (17m 21s):
The states? We're not, we're not, but I'm going to tell you about one that actually that I really care about. Okay. Not fucking. So in 2014, I was covering a story in Baton Rouge and there was this unincorporated part of the city on the Eastern half that was pretty wealthy and pretty white. And it wanted to succeed from Baton Rouge city, which was poorer and much more racially diverse and form its own system. So it's kids could have nice schools and not have to go to school with Baton Rouge kids. So I was down there reporting for a few days gates and the other parents at this meeting want to make something clear

11 (18m 1s):
Just because I was raised in the Southern part of the United States doesn't mean that I'm a racist because I want something better for the middle-class. It just means I want something better for my family.

2 (18m 10s):
This is not something I ever thought would happen. Everyone's feelings were hurt. Everyone was kind of talking out of turn, but it was like, ultimately, they're going to figure it out. Five years later, 2019 54% of residents of that unincorporated area vote. Yes, we are breaking away from Baton Rouge city. We're going to do our own thing

12 (18m 31s):
For a city of St. George are celebrating today after their closest step yet to

13 (18m 36s):
Corporation over 16,000 people said, I want a new city. I want something

2 (18m 42s):
At the moment. It's tied up in litigation, but it was a thing that I never thought would happen. And then it happened kinda like a

1 (18m 49s):
Blueprint for bucket, I

2 (18m 50s):
Guess. Yeah. Kind of like a blueprint for Buckhead is Buckhead paying

1 (18m 53s):
Attention to what's going on. And all these 50 states,

2 (18m 57s):
I think bill white is paying attention to what's going on across the country. The three women that we spoke to the regular people. I don't think they're aware of this as a bigger movement at all. And I have some extreme middle child tendencies, and I saw what happened in Baton Rouge and it did kind of make me sad. And so I had an idea that we should sit down with the three women and figure out if there was some way we could get these very nice people to agree on something. Did you find

1 (19m 25s):
Some neutral territory?

2 (19m 26s):
No, I did not. We went back to the little office near the Spanx headquarters. It was in bucket. Great.

6 (19m 33s):
Listen, I lived all over Atlanta. Y'all have crazy traffic. Of course you do avoid it.

2 (19m 44s):
Kayla sat with us. You might hear him in the background a little bit. Remember he's nine. Okay. Sean. Quick recall. Here we have a Vieta Alexander <em></em> and her wife, Jade, Alexandra Stevis. They want to succeed. And we have Trisha Harris who is very against the session. This is Tricia. This is a children

6 (20m 0s):
Issue. This is a community issue unless Buckhead, I don't care. What they tell you unless Buckhead is going to erect a wall and put an emote with armed guards and checkpoints. How, how do you, the concept is you can externalize crime in that way. It doesn't work. It's going to make it worse because it like it is, is, is contributing to the support of our most vulnerable to kids. That's 30% of our funding gone.

2 (20m 30s):
Let's get a couple of responses. So Patricia brought up two things that I think are really important. Buckhead taxes do help pay for the public schools where Caleb goes and people including criminologists have raised the question. Do you really think a lot more cops are going to help with crime? Let me get your thoughts. So I

4 (20m 47s):
Empathize you however to me, well, I'm gonna tell you, like my mother used to say, figure it out. Okay, poor can't help the poor, right? So if you destroyed what you have in terms of the good things, there will be no more of that.

5 (21m 3s):
Ultimately, I totally empathize with you and what you're saying about your son, but we as being a non-traditional couple, we are actually starting a family. So we want to make sure that our children and our kids are also protected where we do contribute quite a bit in the community. And it was heartbreaking in 2020, what we saw people who weren't neighbors of Buckhead, destroying and vandalizing. And as we grow into motherhood and also building a family, we want to make sure that our kids and our future is also protected.

6 (21m 36s):
Well, congratulations, baby one. Yes. Oh, Jesus. I want to leave here. I'm going to make you a quick list. It was, I had had this list. Just the one page. You have no idea, no matter whether it's your inexpensive house or a multimillion dollar house, you're contributing against what you're able to bear in to coming good bucket is not a fluent and prosperous the way it is in spite of city of Atlanta. It's because of it.

2 (22m 9s):
Can I tell you what I was hearing in that conversation, please? I was hearing two different strands of very American thought. So the Alexander STS couple, they are successful. They are stylish. They are self-described strivers. They want the apartment with the view of the SunTrust bank and they got it. And they're real individualist. They want to protect what they have. Trisha is representing another really American mindset, which is a community is responsible for every member in the community. Neighbors should take care of each other. Cities are collectives. The problem is these are both very American ways of thinking. They just don't often overlap.

1 (22m 52s):
And while you had these ladies in this conference room next to Spanx each cube, did you mention that it doesn't seem like there was a lot of overlap?

2 (23m 2s):
What did they say? Here's

6 (23m 3s):
No, I mean, I think you're right at the end of the day, it's we just got a new mayor. I mean, he's, he's been fantastic, but he's, I mean, he's taking flack from the black community right now because it's all about bucket. Can we at least give this new administration time? Cause a lot of your neighbors don't want this,

4 (23m 24s):
Our understanding of why you wouldn't want that to happen. But at the same time, it's here where we live. It's our house that got vandalized. It's our car that got stolen. So I think it take the politics out of it. Like really, if you take the politics out of it, we're just trying to protect ourselves, not our own, but ourselves, not

2 (23m 45s):
Our community, but ourselves. And that's it.

1 (23m 49s):
So it sounds like you didn't make a lot of headway in this room with these people. No,

2 (23m 52s):
I didn't. I didn't.

1 (23m 56s):
So the buck had people still want to bounce and Atlanta still wants them to stay. When do we find out which it is?

2 (24m 4s):
Well, there was a pretty big development while we were down in Atlanta a few days ago,

14 (24m 8s):
We'll be watching to see what action is taken by the leadership here in the city of Oakland.

15 (24m 14s):
Wow. And with that speaker, David Rolston, along with Lieutenant governor, Jeff Duncan and members of the Atlanta delegation signal, they would not support bucket's city hood. At this time,

2 (24m 25s):
The Republican leaders of the Georgia state legislature said they are not going to support a bill that would lead to a vote on Buckhead succession that would lead to that referendum. Their publicly stated reasoning was exactly what you heard Tricia say it, Lanta has a new mayor. He's only taken off his last month. Let's give him some time and see if he can fix the crime problem. And some of these other problems

14 (24m 50s):
We'll be back next year, if things have changed a lot.

1 (24m 56s):
So where does this leave us Noel? I mean, it sounds like even if crime does go down, people in buckets are still going to want to leave. It might get caught in some legal limbo. But ultimately my takeaway here is that people are just going to look out for themselves.

2 (25m 11s):
Well, nobody in that room changed their minds. Yeah. I will say this. However, at the end of the interview, I was packing up to leave and the three ladies started talking to each other and then they started exchanging information and saying that they would try to keep in touch. They would try to find a way to keep talking about all this Jade actually said she felt uplifted. So I don't know. Yes, it is possible that we are stuck in our particular American trenches, the strivers versus the community minded. But I truly think it is also possible that if we sat down with each other, occasionally in a conference room near the Spanx headquarters, we might be able to do a little better.

2 (25m 55s):
We might be able to get a little further. We might actually get somewhere together. Our episode today was produced and co reported by miles. Bryan edited by Sean Rama's from mixed and mastered by a theme Shapiro and fact checked by Laura Bullard and Richard SEMA. The rest of the team at today explained includes Matthew Colette, Halima Shaw, Victoria, Chamberlain, Hottie moldy, and we'll read our supervising producer is Amina El Sati.

2 (26m 42s):
Our VP of audio is Kelly Nelson. We use music from Breakmaster cylinder and Noah Hassenfeld special thanks to Dan and Margiela Vulcano poly and Lauren Katz for their help with today's show I'm Noel king looking forward to the next thousand episodes of today explained, which is part of the box media podcast network.