2 (0s):
Before we start our show a quick quick note about another show. There's these two ladies who hosts a podcast called by the book their names are jalinda Greenberg and Kristen minds are and I can personally attest. They're very fine people. I used to work with them over WNYC by the book is a show in which they talk about different self-help books, but they got this new show where they take everything. They learn making by the book and channel it into basically their own self help podcast where they sort of Usher people through personal self-help Journeys. It's called we love you. And so can you Kristen and Juventus end listeners on their own self help Journeys and help them make over a big part of their life, like jumping back into dating or starting a new career.

2 (43s):
You'll laugh. You'll cry you'll subscribe maybe we love you. And so can you it's playing now wherever your podcasts are playing. Back in May of last year, we made an episode about vaping the FDA had just sent these warning letters to a dozen or so companies like Jewel that look to be marketing their nicotine devices to kids get your cotton candy flavored nicotine that kind of thing the episode mentioned that these devices were dangerous that they were untested that they were powerful it even ended with a public service announcement about the dangers at play here.

2 (1m 27s):
Don't go very deep your jump. It's

1 (1m 31s):
really not cool. I need I need it.

2 (1m 38s):
But even so after we published a bunch of listeners told us the episode made them want to go out and buy a jewel. One of our co-workers definitely did just that today's episode is about vaping but I can almost guarantee you it won't make you want to vape because now people are dying the Centers for Disease Control is warning people to stop using e-cigarettes. The reason the number of possible cases of vaping related long illnesses has more than doubled in a

1 (2m 8s):
month right now. There are more than 450 possible

2 (2m 12s):
cases in 33 States Health officials say at least five deaths are likely linked to vaping 18 year old Piper Johnson was on her way to college when she wound up in a Colorado Intensive Care Unit had I waited thirty six hours longer. I probably would have died or been put on a ventilator. I didn't think that that little pod could do so much damage on my

1 (2m 35s):
body what's going on is that there is an outbreak of mysterious vaping related respiratory illness that's sweeping across the

2 (2m 43s):
u.s. Julia Blues reports on health for box today. She spoke to us from Vienna. That's Vienna, Austria, not Vienna, Virginia.

1 (2m 51s):
So starting around April doctors started to see young otherwise healthy people show up in their offices and hospitals with difficulty breathing and they do CT scans and x-rays and look at their lungs and notice that they had these abnormalities something was causing inflammation in the lungs and when they'd start to try to search for what that was a bacterium or virus. They didn't find anything which is really unusual to see young healthy people show up in hospital who don't have any sign of infection but have difficulty breathing

2 (3m 24s):
it felt like I was genuinely having a heart attack.

1 (3m 27s):
That's how eighteen-year-old chance Amerada describes the feeling when his medical

2 (3m 31s):
emergency began about three weeks ago. I would say like my chest felt like he was collapsing and tightening up and I couldn't breathe and they said your lung has collapsed you have to go to surgery right now

1 (3m 42s):
and only a few months later when more and more of these cases started to show up. Did they realize what was linking them was that all of the patients Vaped every single one of them reported using e-cigarettes in the last 90 days. So by the end of August there were about 200 possible cases in 22 States and on Friday the CDC announced that that number has risen to 450 possible cases in more than 30 States Paulie her gun Raiders 18 year old son. Adam has been in the hospital since Saturday when he was rushed to the ER with chills shortness of breath and vomiting. He's now relying on a supplemental breathing mask steroids and antibiotics as he battles along

2 (4m 26s):
infection. What was the first case in which we know someone died from vaping here?

1 (4m 33s):
So in August we learned of a woman in Illinois who was hospitalized with this unexplained illness and she died and she was only in her 30s and she's now thought to be the first person in the u.s. Who's died because of vaping and on Friday we learned about the fifth death which happened in LA and that person was over the age of

2 (4m 54s):
55. So we've got a woman in her 30s, but also an older guy who have died from vaping is everyone who Vapes getting sick right now or is this like limited to a certain type of person?

1 (5m 7s):
No, not at all and yet it's important to remember there are many many people across the country. And right now we're talking about 450 cases. So this is definitely a subset of the population using e-cigarettes. What we know now is that most of the people who have been diagnosed are actually in their late teens and 20s. So on Friday the New England Journal of Medicine medical journal came out this series of reports on this outbreak in one of them was a study in Wisconsin and Illinois and they found that the median age of the patients in those States is 19. So that means it half of the people who are getting sick with this illness are younger than 19. So it's it definitely a younger population and another otherwise healthy one that seems to be affected.

1 (5m 52s):
I would hit my vape

2 (5m 54s):
easily 40 times in an hour. I was a pretty heavy Vapor. What are the symptoms that people are coming down with when they go to the hospital when they get sick when they die.

1 (6m 6s):
Yeah, so patients have a few things in common. So they're they're suffering from respiratory symptoms again, the trouble breathing

2 (6m 13s):
shortness of breath cough and even some GI symptoms nausea vomiting and diarrhea. Sometimes we see blood in the airway, which is can be

1 (6m 23s):
alarming some of them even need oxygen support through ventilator. Is or they need to be intubated 17 year-old Tristan so field was taken to Cook Children's Hospital in Fort Worth, Texas with blockage in his lungs.

2 (6m 35s):
I woke up just throwing up everywhere on my heart was just pounding on my chest going a hundred miles an hour

1 (6m 40s):
and sometimes the breathing troubles even follow the gastrointestinal symptoms. So it's a difficulty breathing that finally brings people into the

2 (6m 49s):
hospital are all these people who are getting sick getting better. I mean, obviously five or so have died, but how's everyone else doing

1 (6m 57s):
here? So what are the doctors? I spoke to who's been treating patients with illness said that when she's followed up with people who have recovered from the from the breathing difficulties in particular their lungs still appear to be damaged. So there seems to be some long lasting impact on the

2 (7m 13s):
lungs now Alexander who left the hospital on July 7th has diminished lung capacity and is experiencing short-term memory issues. The doctors told me my lungs are diminished by 25% I don't have the stamina that I use. You might have the strength that I used to they're hopeful I'll recover

1 (7m 33s):
the long-term health effects of people what they'll Miss. We don't know them

2 (7m 37s):
yet. Is there any particular type of VAP device? I mean, we talked a lot about the jewel back in our episode about vaping in May of last year. Is it like a type of nicotine or THC that people are inhaling? When do we know that? There's one thing to stay away from here? So

1 (7m 55s):
unfortunately, it's still not clear and that's why the CDC and FDA are telling people just don't use e-cigarettes until we know what's going on. Right now. The FDA is analyzing hundreds of samples from the products that people who have gotten sick have been using and they think that there's a chemical in some of them that might be what's causing the illness, but they're still considering everything from nicotine to THC to pesticides additives all the chemicals that come in flavors and D. Yeah, one thing that does link many of the cases is that people had been using THC and their e-cigarette devices.

2 (8m 34s):
How do you how do you get that? You know the THC? I got it from like a drug dealer or whatever. Did he I assure you it was okay. Sure. Yeah, but you don't know right whether it was okay or not,

1 (8m 48s):
right, but then there are also people who got sick wit only been using nicotine e-cigarettes and then some people use both so marijuana and nicotine containing liquids in there and their devices. So it's possible that we'll learn that the sickness is caused by an exposure to like a couple of chemicals or that the chemicals are working together in a way that's making people sick or it's also possible some people who are saying they only use nicotine are lying because right now I think the data that we have are self-reported and maybe and again it's a lot of young people. Maybe they don't want to admit that they were using marijuana, so it's really Not clear yet and it's going to take some time to find out but it is worth noting that on Friday the State Health Department of New York announced it and investigation of the cases.

1 (9m 37s):
They're found that vitamin E acetate was a chemical that turned up in the products that people who have been sickened in New York had been using but then the feds on Friday in a press briefing walked back from that and said that you know while New York has had that finding it's still not clear that vitamin E is really the culprit and and they're considering many many different potential causes.

2 (9m 60s):
What is vitamin E acetate exactly. It sounds mostly healthy

1 (10m 4s):
it is. Yeah, so it's something that's found in nutritional supplements and it's completely safe in those but it does have these oily greasy properties that when you're inhaling it into your lungs it can cause some of the symptoms and inflammation that the people who are sick have been

2 (10m 19s):
experiencing what other chemicals or ingredients are in these Vape cocktails do No,

1 (10m 28s):
so so so many so flavorings and additives and toxins that are in the mix. So nicotine heavy metals like Mercury and aluminum formaldehyde has been found in E-Cigarettes. And then yeah and then the flavorings like, you know, strawberry lemonade and Butter Rum and all the floral flavor, whatever all that all the different flavors it did are available. Now, they're also made of many different types of chemical combinations. So it's important to remember there are hundreds of different ingredients in The Vape juice has people are

2 (11m 2s):
using as delicious as that sounds. I mean, all of these ingredients have been in these Vape cocktails for years now, why are people getting sick all of a sudden?

1 (11m 13s):
What's interesting is that it's not entirely clear that this is a new phenomenon. So it's possible. This has been going on for some time. But because e-cigarette use his only sword recently that were actually detecting these links now, It's also possible that there is something that's been introduced on the market or black market products that people are accessing that are introduced more recently that are making people

2 (11m 38s):
sick. Why is there a black market for these devices when you see like vape stores on like every corner and they're being sold in convenience stores. It's not like there's like a black market for like Miller Lite, why are people buying Vape devices on the

1 (11m 51s):
streets? Well, you remember in this case a lot of the patients had reported using THC which is the psychoactive ingredient in marijuana and as we know marijuana is illegal in every state. So it's possible that people are just purchasing these devices off of whoever's dealing to them or it's also possible that they have a you know, Black Market Source that's cheaper than what's on the market. So I think there's lots of reasons why people might be turning to Black Market sources

2 (12m 23s):
do we know if the cdc's warnings have worked if people are going to eat? Up after vaping or are we likely to see more hospitalizations more injuries more deaths as a result of people using these devices in the coming weeks and

1 (12m 35s):
months. I have noticed on just on social media and talking to people that there seems to be more awareness about the potential dangers of these devices as a result of this outbreak. So maybe it is scaring people off of

2 (12m 50s):
them to the people who were vaping underage knock it off. Don't do that to your parents as for people who are of legal smoking age. If you want to vape Vape just know the risks it almost killed me,

1 (13m 7s):
but you whether anyone's actually measuring yeah whether you cigarette use is going down as a result. I don't

2 (13m 13s):
know. Joel markets itself as an alternative to traditional cigarettes and the e-cigarette giant says its mission is to improve the lives of the world's 1 billion adult smokers by eliminating cigarettes in the goal appears to be paying off in recent weeks cigarette sales volume declined more than seven percent that is more than twice the historic rate of decline. Baloo's, I think you know people thought I'm going to vape instead of smoke cigarettes because it seemed like the healthier alternative to all these recent illnesses and even death suggested that might not be true.

1 (13m 53s):
I think we still don't know enough to say anything definitively but we do know that regular cigarettes are the deadliest products that have ever been introduced to the consumer market. So that's a pretty tough thing to

2 (14m 4s):
beat. Obviously. One of the dangers here is that teens have really glommed on to vaping the jewel in particular.

1 (14m 11s):
Brother here who is of Age

2 (14m 14s):
and and he's

1 (14m 16s):
gonna teach me how to do some basic tricks. So here to talk show show

2 (14m 19s):
me some of your best tricks row when you beat in don't inhale it like breathing.

1 (14m 28s):
So there's this National survey called the National Institutes of Health survey and they track how American Youth are using substances and the number of high school seniors who said they Vape nicotine in the past 30 days had doubled between 2017 and 2018. So it went from 11 percent to nearly twenty one percent. This survey is like more than 40 years old and it was the largest increase they'd ever seen of any substance in the history of the survey what that means. Is that a quarter of 12th graders are now using these cigarettes at least at some point in the last month and we have no idea what the long-term health effects of that will be

2 (15m 8s):
a quarter of all 12th graders in the United States are very At some point every month.

1 (15m 13s):
Yeah, so it's they what they track is 30-day use in the past 30 days and just for a comparison so adults use it's like fewer than five percent of adults are currently using e-cigarettes

2 (15m 25s):
and we don't have any more of an idea of what this might be doing to not even fully formed adults

1 (15m 31s):
yet. Well, we thought until this outbreak that the diseases that would be related to you cigarettes would take a long time to turn up in the same way smoking doesn't kill you two days after you smoke a cigarette. It kills you after many years of use and the accumulation of that toll on the body. So what that means is it there might be these potential cardiovascular effects, like heart disease and high blood pressure heart attacks things like that. Then we've also seen these rare cases of seizures related to nicotine containing e-cigarettes and also of e-cigarette explosion. So when these Vape devices have exploded in people's mouths and broken their jaws and whatnot.

1 (16m 11s):
We were so we're still definitely learning about what the longer-term consequences if some of these short shorter term health effects are going to be

2 (16m 20s):
and I mean the last time we spoke about this you also mentioned that there's this ability to take these like Super Hyper Mega doses of nicotine when you have a vaping device, whereas when you're smoking a cigarette, you're a little more limited to you know, a single cigarette at a time. Obviously. What do we know about the health impacts of just taking a lot of nicotine?

1 (16m 40s):
So I think it's important to say that that was about Jewel, right? So Jewel does deliver this like crazy dose of nicotine. I think it's as much as so one Jewel pod delivers his much nicotine as up to two packs of cigarettes. So they're definitely in the addiction business, but that's not all

2 (16m 57s):
e-cigarettes. But Jewel does control like this Market. It's the biggest player.

1 (17m 2s):
Absolutely. Yeah. They have the the greatest share of these Arab market for sure and then these are similar to the health effects of nicotine in cigarettes. So raising blood Are speeding up the heart rate causing the arteries too narrow. We know that it nicotine can increase the adrenaline that circulates in our bodies. So that activates this fight or flight response and in young people, we know that nicotine can rewire the brain. So there are questions about what that means for addiction and susceptibility to addiction later. If you've been drooling everyday in your

2 (17m 35s):
teens are e-cigarettes regulated the same way as regular cigarettes. I know this is sort of a new wild west of smoking or vaping but is the government staying on top of it. So

1 (17m 49s):
yeah in only in 2009 did the FDA get regulatory authority over the tobacco industry and E-cigarettes were left out of it until that finally change in 2016. And so the FED started to regulate e-cigarettes then and it meant that they could do things like Banning sales to minors and making sure you know that The ingredients were listed on packages and stuff like that. But they've also delayed some big compliance deadlines as part of the regulation. So for example companies that have entered the market after February 2007 have more time to get FDA approval to sell their products.

1 (18m 30s):
So they push back a deadline for these companies that yeah came on the market after 2007 in the context of this outbreak is worth noting that FDA doesn't regulate THC since it's illegal under federal law. So there are certainly some gaps still in the regulation of the products that seem to be causing this

2 (18m 47s):
outbreak is The Vaping industry responding to this at all, or they saying hey our bad we're going to make sure these things are a little safer and I like that.

1 (18m 55s):
So the line from The Vaping industry seems to be that Federal officials are unnecessarily frightening the population. Oh so the vapor technology Association, which is this big e-cigarette vaping industry trade group. So they released a statement recently urging quote public. Visuals to thoroughly investigate the circumstances which might have led to the each reported hospitalization before making statements to the public about whether certain products are implicated in these

2 (19m 22s):
incidences and how much would scaring people off e cigarettes cost The Vaping industry

1 (19m 28s):
so we know that jewel is now valued at thirty eight billion dollars Gap. So that's it was a massive valuation when it when it was purchased by the parent company of Philip Morris. One of the world's largest tobacco companies, which now owns more than a third of Jewel. So yeah, the company is hugely valuable big. Tobacco clearly sees a future with them and Yep. This outbreak were to turn those Trends around that we were talking about there would be a lot of money

2 (19m 57s):
lost. And so anyone thinking oh, I got this Cool Vape device that's not really a part of this big old cigarette tobacco machine that dates back to slavery in the United States that isn't the case

1 (20m 9s):
anymore. That's not the case. And it hasn't been for a while many of these cigarette companies are controlled by tobacco

2 (20m 16s):
companies. Is this like a huge moment for Vaping where where whatever happens in the next few months or a year might decide the future of this potentially very very harmful Trend,

1 (20m 30s):
you know, when when like you said when he cigarettes were introduced to the market they were really framed as these stop smoking devices and then there was this like youth boom and lots of marketing around that and social media use around around vaping and now we're seeing this outbreak that seems to be directly linked to the e-cigarette industry and I think that might indeed be this turning point in the

2 (20m 53s):
conversation. Julia Blues covers health for Vox shortly after she and I spoke this morning the FDA sent a Stern warning letter to Jewel Industries for illegally marketing its vaping products as safer than cigarettes. The FDA says that Jewel has 15 days to take corrective action. I'm sure on Rama's firm. This is today explained.