4 (0s):
Hello, I'm Sean Rama's firm. This is today explained but we are actually taking today off Thanksgiving in the United States falls on a Thursday. And then there's this awkward Friday. That's not really a holiday. But no one really wants to work and a lot of people shop. Maybe you've heard of Black Friday the today explain team and I are taking it easy today. But if you're out there hitting the shops at the malls or online, you're going to find this episode of our sort of sister podcast. It fascinating. It's all about Amazon's Preppers. Not people who are getting ready for the apocalypse. These preppers are people who don't work for Amazon, but are essential to its business.

4 (44s):
They're the ones who make the company the biggest retailer in the world sit back relax. Enjoy reset.

2 (1m 3s):
This is reset. I'm Ariel Jim Ross and this this is Reggie. Reggie is my six pound Chihuahua mix puppy good girl. She's a tiny dog, but she actually weirdly needs a lot of stuff. Here's just some of the stuff I bought for her recently a new winter coat cans of wet food that she likes I got her some winter booties that look like balloons a wax that protects her feet on the cold side walk and some puzzle toys that keep her busy and out of my hair and most of the time I'm buying this stuff. From probably the same place that you're buying a lot of your stuff from Amazon.

2 (1m 45s):
But have you ever thought about how all of these things actually get to you? Turns out the stuff you buy on Amazon goes on a pretty crazy Journey before it gets to your door and the journey might very well involve having that product make a pit stop in a small town called Roundup

4 (2m 5s):
Montana. You can have a seller who could be anywhere in the world by let's say a hundred dog beds from Target online. And so those dog beds ship from a Target warehouse. Let's say in San Bernardino and then go to the Preps. In Roundup where they're unboxed reboxed maybe Amazon says send 22, Illinois 22 Kentucky the rest of them to Utah. Okay, and then from there they would go out to customers.

2 (2m 41s):
Roundup is a town of 1800 people in southern Montana. The closest city is Billings and it's just about an hour away. That's small town attracted the attention of verge editor Josh Jessa. Josh was looking into a story about third-party sellers on Amazon basically people who use Amazon as a platform to sell their stuff

4 (3m 2s):
this started when I was talking to an Amazon Seller for another story and he mentioned that he never really handled his Goods he Bought them online from other retailers and had them shipped to a building somewhere where they were unboxed reboxed and sent to

2 (3m 20s):
Amazon unboxed and reboxed. Why do they have to be

4 (3m 24s):
reboxed right? That's what I was surprised about to Amazon has fairly strict requirements for how Goods arrive at their fulfillment centers work in the film centers is, you know, partly automated and partly just intense physical labor and to streamline the process Yes, there's requirements for how things arrived like you can't have multiple barcodes because someone might scan the wrong bar code can have packing peanuts because they get everywhere. So if you buy something from some other retailer, you have to unbox it. Make sure it's not broken Reeboks it according to Amazon specifications. Send it to Amazon

2 (4m 0s):
this process of unboxing Andre boxing to Amazon specifications is called prepping and Roundup is an unlikely hub for exactly that

4 (4m 10s):
at last There is there is nine prep centers. I think and more people training

2 (4m 15s):
9 prep Center is

4 (4m 16s):
now at last count so 9 and

2 (4m 18s):
growing. So all this unboxing Andre boxing this cottage industry of Preppers. How did this even come about Josh went to Montana in September to find out

4 (4m 33s):
Prepping got started in round up because this woman named Crystal Graham crystals brother died and left a bunch of books behind and so she to sell them off started selling on Amazon and then realized that you can sell pretty much anything on Amazon. And so she started buying other things to sell. You know, she started with razors KY Jelly first aid kits it soon came about that. She was had so many products that she couldn't Prep them all to send to Amazon. And so she started looking around for her services that would take that

2 (5m 9s):
on that would prepare the packages for exactly and you know, she went on the

4 (5m 14s):
directory for seller services and saw that there were 15 such services at the time but none in Montana and so sensing an opportunity decided to set up that kind of service herself. So Crystal hired someone named Linda to help we met at the Busy Bee Cafe, which is a sort of Diner when you get to round

1 (5m 39s):
up our job is just to make sure not only does it get to Amazon warehouse and make sure it gets to the customer to because Amazon's pretty rough to get items. They throw it in the bin.

4 (5m 49s):
And so Crystal had hired Linda and then they had a falling out and Linda left and went into business for herself, and that was sort Where the prepping explosion and Roundup

1 (6m 1s):
happened everything we get we have to make sure plus Amazon has guidelines and specifications to on things happening. But as an individual, I like to look at it and go how would I like to receive

2 (6m 13s):
that? Okay. So now we're at to prep centers in Roundup

4 (6m 16s):
Montana. Now, there's two then Jill hears about this from Windows neighbor Jill just been laid off from her state job and started trying to get Linda to show her the ropes.

1 (6m 28s):
Oops, and I asked her I said why would you help me because I hadn't met her yet it over and she goes Jill. There's no competition. There are so many sellers out there. That's like, okay,

4 (6m 38s):
so I started interning with Linda essentially they became friends and then Jill chose a name and started prepping from her property. So now there are three. And then Jill who is the one who moved around up to Ranch? It came time for her to bring cattle down out of the mountains. And so she reached out to Sandy

1 (7m 4s):
see I'm Sandy. She has sat for

4 (7m 6s):
me Sandy starts getting all these packages for Jill right? It's curious about what the deal is because she doesn't know what's going on, right? She understood it to be some sort of mysterious online business, but it is curious. What what exactly is going on? as the porch fills up with boxes

1 (7m 23s):
instead to it teaches I had no idea.

4 (7m 27s):
Aunt Jill comes back out of the mountains and explains what's happening and Sandy thinks this sounds like a great flexible job.

1 (7m 35s):
She goes I'd really like to learn us like, well you can huh, and she had just lost her father and mother is ill and she's their caretaker, you know, so and round up there's not a whole lot of job

2 (7m 47s):
opportunities. So this is spreading through round up

4 (7m 50s):
and sort of spreading through word of mouth and they're just sort of training each other. We have a

1 (7m 55s):
group text if anybody has questions,

4 (7m 58s):
Okay. I mean they were somewhat confused about why I was interested in this industry, you know their senses that is sort of a small quirky thing. They do.

1 (8m 10s):
I don't think we're the story. You know, we have our niche in the Stream of

4 (8m 15s):
things. Yeah. They were quite warm quite nice. They were eager to talk about the business a lot of Amazon sellers come and go but some of their customers have been around for a long time and they have personal connections with these people, who are On the world and most of whom they've never met

1 (8m 32s):
majority of my sellers are international really I have yet from Malaysia Australia Europe Canada. And a lot of them are first starting out the newbies they'd sometimes they need a little kick start learning and they're kind of like children when they first start as newbies. You have to play along. I told him that it's like whatever and

2 (8m 54s):
I can't help but notice that every person that you've mentioned in Roundup that does this this prepping work. They all seem to be women. Why is that

4 (9m 5s):
that is true and that was something I asked them about and they weren't really sure why that was the case either one of them said, you know, possibly it's because a lot of them were working from home taking care of family. Some of them had husbands who worked in mines nearby,

2 (9m 21s):
but you know what we're women that have our own

1 (9m 24s):
businesses. I said, look at this what we've gotten all these women that are usually sing. Yeah, you know, I mean, I have a boyfriend she's got a husband but he's working in Billings and stuff. But you know not too many people women get this

4 (9m 37s):
opportunity. They weren't really sure but put it but it was particularly striking to me because talking to Amazon sellers. It can be sort of male-dominated and so it was interesting to me that this subculture was at least in Roundup that it did tend to be women or was entirely women around

2 (9m 56s):
up and are people making money from this this almost. Sounds like a multi-level marketing scheme. They are it is

4 (10m 5s):
not super lucrative. They make a dollar per package that they prep and so it can fluctuate Sandy. For example had a good day when she had hundreds of miniature animal toys to prep at $1 each. You can trap them quite

2 (10m 21s):
quickly, right? I was just going to say I feel like if it's a dollar per package, then you really want very small

4 (10m 27s):
things exactly. And so if you get stuck with Have televisions or strollers or something your hourly rate really plummets. So, you know, they make good money. They said it was better than they could get in other lines of work. Sandy did give me a rate for her miniature animal spree, which was 49:55 per hour for those so quite good, but you know another day it could be a bunch of TV's. You don't

2 (10m 56s):
know it's not the most efficient system is it? No, one of the

4 (11m 1s):
things about Amazon is that it is extremely efficient about the things that it focuses on optimizing but because it's so big it can create sort of weird in efficiencies like this, you know, if people trying really hard to capitalize on a

2 (11m 16s):
scale it's interesting to hear you talk about sort of how Amazon just like sucks in all these goods from from various stores and companies across the country kind of feels like it's got like the All kind of of power.

4 (11m 32s):
Yeah, I mean Amazon is this gigantic platform. Now that has made buying things extremely convenient and easy and when you have a store like that, it can create this sort of gravitational pool on consumer goods from all over the country of just things flowing into Amazon Fulfillment centers to be sold. And you know before they get there they passed through a it's like a prep Center.

2 (12m 7s):
After the break how the power of Amazon's Marketplace impacts its sellers its competitors and the rest of us.

4 (12m 25s):
Hey, hi Sean. Again. Hope you're enjoying this special presentation of reset in your today explain feed. If so, just a reminder that you can subscribe to reset wherever you're subscribed to today explained. They get to talk about all sorts of interesting technology stories. We never really get to talk about on our show like this one. Let's get back to it.

2 (12m 46s):
I wanted to know just how important the third party Marketplace was to Amazon's business. So I spoke to an expert I'm

4 (12m 54s):
Jason Del Rey. Senior correspondent for Commerce a tree code which basically means I spend way too much time thinking writing and talking about

2 (13m 5s):
Amazon. Jason has spent the last six years figuring out how the marketplace works.

4 (13m 11s):
So people call Amazon the everything store. The reason they're able to be that is because they don't have to buy all this inventory and stock at themselves in their own warehouses. The third party Merchants handle all of that for them. And that immense selection leads to price competition which is the reason why Amazon often has some of the best prices on the

2 (13m 33s):
web when did third parties start to sell products on Amazon?

4 (13m 37s):
Sure. So third party started selling on Amazon all the way back in the year 2000 but back then it actually started with big retailers who were the third parties. Okay. So Toys R Us was one of the biggest third-party sellers Can the day but overtime retailers like Toys R Us have learned. Why are we doing business with Amazon? And so now it is sellers big and small Merchants big and small one person shops up to like really big operations and third-party sellers today account for nearly 60 percent of total sales on Amazon.

4 (14m 19s):
So

2 (14m 19s):
this is actually a really important part of how Amazon does

4 (14m 23s):
business correct with doubt third-party sellers Amazon would be much more like a traditional retailer having to stock all the inventory themselves and what this allows Amazon to do is have what might be the biggest online selection in

2 (14m 42s):
the world. One of the things that that I was particularly struck by was the idea that a lot of these third-party sellers never actually handle their own products. How does that work?

4 (14m 54s):
If we want to go step-by-step essentially someone sitting in front of a computer can place an order with either a wholesale company or some type of manufacturer. Okay, oftentimes outside of the United States, they can have it sent directly to an Amazon facility or maybe two Other type of facility run by a different sort of logistics company and then they can have that product sent directly from that facility to a customer's door literally never touching it. There are other situations where sellers are actually as we heard earlier buying from another retailer or buying from eBay and having that sent to a middleman of some sort to repackage a prep Center a prep Center and then selling that the customer door, you know, I've had friends those who've had situations where they get an Amazon order delivered in another retailers box.

4 (15m 52s):
So there are these situations. I don't think it's ideal or maybe even allowed where the prepping and between is not actually happening and it's coming directly in a big one of them was a Sam's Sam's Club box for example, so this is a wild wild world and the main thing I was on cares about is having this. Immense selection and also the more of these products they can run through the Amazon with Mystics Network the faster they can get to customer doors and qualify for something like Amazon

2 (16m 24s):
Prime because the whole point of these prep centers is let's put these products that we obtained elsewhere in a box that Amazon can handle so that everything goes really well with prime shipping right

4 (16m 36s):
correct Prime is you can call it the heart the engine of the Amazon retail machine. It is the most important factor in sort of the decision making process for the most valuable Amazon customers the ones who spend the most they see that Prime check mark that means a couple of things I think without even realizing it. It means I trust this it means I know I'm going to get it very very quickly and it also leads to many customers not even price comparing across other websites because they value and can afford. I suppose the convenience of Prime and the trust of prime over saving an extra Buck or two somewhere

2 (17m 17s):
else. Does Amazon make a lot of money off of these third-party

4 (17m 22s):
sellers indeed in a recent three month quarter Amazon generated 11 billion dollars of Revenue just from these third-party services. So they charge third-party sellers a fee. I think it's called a listing fee, which is essentially just to list the product on our site. We're going to Take somewhere between typically eight and fifteen percent on top of that. They charge fees to store goods and Amazon warehouses, which most of the time you have to do to qualify your products for Prime. Okay, they also handle customer service shipping and then increasingly to get discovered on Amazon.

4 (18m 3s):
You need to advertise your

2 (18m 4s):
products sponsored products at the top of the list, right?

4 (18m 7s):
Correct. That's sort of the main advertising product. There are some others as well some call it.

2 (18m 13s):
Attacks

4 (18m 14s):
to sell on Amazon that you now need to advertise. Mmm. And so some sellers say they now for fit anywhere from you know, 35 to 50 percent of a product sale to

2 (18m 27s):
Amazon. That seems like a huge cut. How does that affect prices for customers?

4 (18m 34s):
There is an argument from some sellers that these fees have gotten so high and take up so much of a total product price that it does actually we to higher prices for consumers how that works is some sellers say I'm now giving 50% of my sail. Let's say it to Amazon essentially when you factor in all these fees if I didn't have to do that if I sold this on my own website, I could actually Are these prices if I so these elsewhere the problem with that is Amazon often penalizes sellers if they sell the same product cheaper on another site.

4 (19m 17s):
So in the past they would say like you just can't do that. There was a policy that you couldn't do

2 (19m 23s):
that. So it has to be the same price as on your website.

4 (19m 26s):
Correct? There were some regulatory attention put on that in the last year and so Amazon change the policy but now they will sometimes just hide the product if you're doing that.

2 (19m 40s):
This is like a shadow

4 (19m 41s):
ban. Yeah, I think they call it sir pressing the listing and their argument is listen. We want to offer our customers the best shot best prices best shopping experience. And this is not the best if it's not the best experience best price. Why should we show it? That's one example of how some sellers say Amazon it artificially inflates. Isis

2 (20m 7s):
what is your take on round up this idea that there is sort of this this small little network of prep centers in Montana in a small town in Montana. How did you receive sort of that information?

4 (20m 22s):
So the details were surprising where it was who the people were but what wasn't surprising was that there was a sort of business opportunity that seems a bit bizarre that Never heard of coming out of the Amazon ecosystem because there are all these mini ecosystems that have branched out from the Amazon selling experience that just because I've spent six years, you know, trying to untangle sort of this third party experience. So it is this wild-west nature of the marketplace that leads to on one hand scams schemes and con artist on the other hand.

4 (21m 6s):
And you know would chittim it business opportunities that seem to sprout overnight.

2 (21m 11s):
So it sounds from what you're saying that these opportunities like the Preppers actually have been pretty essential to building up Amazon's business.

4 (21m 20s):
Absolutely without them. We would not be talking about the dominant online retailer that we are today.

2 (21m 34s):
That's it for today's episode of reset. I'm Ariel Zoom Ross. If you want to know a whole lot more about Amazon's impact Jason did an entire podcast series about this. It's called Land of the Giants the rise of Amazon go check it out. If you want to follow me on Twitter, you can find me at a TRS. You can also reach the reset team by emailing reset at vox.com reset comes out three times a week on Tuesdays Thursdays and Sundays. If you haven't already subscribe to the Pod you can find us on Apple podcast Stitcher or in your favorite podcast app.

2 (22m 15s):
And if you like what you hear give us a five star rating on Apple podcasts. It really helps us will read Skyler Swenson and Martha. Produce the show our engineer is Eric Gomez. Golda Arthur is our executive producer list. Kelly Nelson is the editorial director of fox podcast, the mysterious brake master cylinder composed our theme music special. Thanks this week to our Chung for helping us out reset is produced in association with Stitcher and we're part of the VOX media podcast network will be back on Tuesday later nerds.