1 (3s):
Do you remember President Trump's inaugural address back in January 2017? He talked about crime gang violence drugs. He called it All-American Carnage the speech left. A lot of people scratching their heads violent crime in the country had been trending downward for decades George W. Bush who was actually just seated a few feet away from the brand new president apparently turned to his neighbors on the speech was over and said that was some weird. Weird shit, but now in the fourth year of the Trump presidency American Carnage doesn't feel like such a head scratcher. We've got more than a hundred thousand people dead due to covid at least 40 million unemployed horrifying videos of black men being murdered by racist police and racist police wannabes and now protests in the streets across our City's most are peaceful.

1 (59s):
Some are I want both versions are being met with police brutality. The whole world is watching the American Carnage American University Professor Ibrahim. Candy has been watching too. We reached him this morning at his home in DC and he said he's got a different name for it. He calls this the American Nightmare the American Nightmare is first and foremost a horror story and in a horror story, there are moments of joy and Safety and laughter, but what's essential to a horror story is danger and black people recognize that since they're viewed as dangerous in this country.

1 (1m 43s):
They're constantly the victims, you know of violence and so it's dangerous to be black in America and I wrote about how really that you can't really separate the the death and disease and destruction, you know of black. Or from from the black experience which in its totality is the American nightmare, right? You wrote about this American Nightmare in the Atlantic and you referred to this nightmare throughout history. But how is this nightmare a part of what we're seeing play out in the streets in cities across the country right now. I think I think where I'm seeing it play out first and foremost is you have people who are in pain and they're in pain particularly black people.

1 (2m 30s):
Because chances are they've been subjected at some point in their life to police brutality or they know someone in typically black people experience other black people's painting and they certainly Step Into The Souls of those who are dead. Whether it's Brianna Taylor George Floyd to really feel their pain to really feel that that Nightmare and so then they demonstrate they protest at times they even get get get violent and stay. Call the National Guard not to protect their lives not to protect their lives against police violence, but to protect the police and property and so then reinforces this idea that their lives don't matter, but this isn't the first time it's not the tenth time.

1 (3m 22s):
It's not the thousandth time. So so why this time I think I think for black people and I know certainly lie for me it was having to deal with months of recognizing the black people are disproportionately dying of covid-19 and simultaneously being blamed for their own deaths the unwillingness of racist Americans. Look at the social determinants of Health that are actually leading to disproportionate black death and then comes Brianna Taylor and then comes amount Aubry. And then comes what happened to Christian Cooper in Central Park and then comes George Floyd.

1 (4m 7s):
I think all of that is in its totality combined with this sort of history of black disease black pain and black death. That's the result of racist policies and power. I think in a still tality is his is almost becoming the American Nightmare and it's just so obvious for people and obviously nobody wants to live in an American Nightmare These protests, you know, peaceful and violent both have people thinking back to the 1960s to 1968 in particular and it's easy to make that connection but so much has changed and so much hasn't change what's important about the connection wiping.

1 (4m 50s):
I think what's strikingly different is the the makeup of the crowds of people who are Resisting particularly violently and so I think there's a much more interracial group of people who are resisting. Then there was in 1968, you know after the assassination of Martin Luther King and that's not to say that they were not any non-black people involved in those rebellions, but but it seems like they were there more non-black people involved in today's rebellions.

1 (5m 33s):
That's fundamentally striking and I also sort of think that the Consciousness, you know of many of these people when you actually look at the signs when you actually interview them when you actually talk to them, you know, they recognized that that police violence is is not the American problem, but it is a sign of many of the problems. That that Americans, you know face and and they want to grow up in a different type of America and they're going to do all they can to create that type of America. How did the protests end in 1968 and in 1968 you had one of the Things that came out of many of the violent demonstrations was the housing sort of Act of 1968.

1 (6m 30s):
So you had that sort of civil rights major Civil Rights bill that was passed the last major Civil Rights bill that of the civil rights movement and then you simultaneously obviously had a lot of police force that came down the hit on to the heads of people which large numbers of people were arrested. And even brutalized and so with striking is it seems in this case that at least at a national level that only police force seems to be coming. How does it end this time? You think? What I'm hoping happens is that local officials just as they've made immediate and fast and dramatic policy changes by bringing State Police brought bringing in National Guard's by issuing curfews that these are policy changes that they have the power to do that.

1 (7m 32s):
They would similarly make striking. Mass of policy changes within their policing departments within their neighborhoods and communities that they would listen to the policy demands of local activists on the ground and immediately Institute those policy changes. And I think that if they were to do that, then I think that that would have the capacity to potentially stop the resistance. But this is why people are resisting they don't see any change coming.

1 (8m 14s):
Nobody is saying not nobody but they want change and until change happens they're going to resist. how to wake up from the American Nightmare or if that's even possible after

3 (8m 38s):
the break

1 (8m 49s):
Professor candy. What does it look like when black Americans wake up from this nightmare? Well, I know for me something as simple as you know, if I'm running down the street, I don't have to worry about being targeted by not only racist white terrorists, but also the potential that they wouldn't even get arrested if they harm the or that when I run by a police officer. Sir, I don't get scared. I view them as somebody who's going to protect and serve me that sort of I don't see racist barriers All Around Me While racist Americans are telling me I'm the reason why in my own inferiority is the reason why my people sort of have less an America.

1 (9m 39s):
Where is equity for all there's Justice for All and there's opportunity for all. That's sounds nice. But how does it work? Practically, you wrote an entire book about this called how to be anti-racist. How do we do it? I think first and foremost. It's critical for every American to stop saying terms like I'm not racist and I think it's critically important for Americans to admit the racist ideas that they have likely been raised to believe. It's critically important for Americans to admit the racist policies.

1 (10m 22s):
They've supported that have led to inequality and Injustice and death and it's critically important for them to admit the times in which they were being racist because there's no way they can change themselves if they're still in that denial and so to be anti-racist is to admit when we're being racist and then not only that admission, but then we challenge those races. The ideas we adopt anti-racist ideas that say the problem is power and policy when there is an equity not people and then we spend our time we spend our firms. We spend our energy challenging racist policy and power it just feels so, you know insurmountable especially right now.

1 (11m 10s):
I mean without question the even in how to be an anti-racist I write about Racism is like a metastatic disease that literally has has spread to every part of the body politic and we can see those sort of tumor cells through all of the George Floyd's and Brianna tailors who are dying through all of the injustices in the inequities, and so it's everywhere and it's always been widespread. In the United States and so the question is will we just believe that it's always going to be here and then guarantee our death or will we basically acknowledge our diagnosis that we have this metastatic racism that we have to treat that if the treatment is going to be painful and simultaneously believe that we can live and I said this from the standpoint of someone who was diagnosed with metastatic.

1 (12m 9s):
Colon cancer who was was basically told that only 12% of people survive this disease and I had two choices either. I just give up or fight and try to sort of live Against All Odds. The United States has been fighting this for so long. It just feels like a congenital disease, right and that makes us different from just about every country on Earth. It's so much more complex here and so much more intertwined with who we are as a country. I think you're correct. When you say it's like, you know, understanding race and racism is extremely difficult and it is an extremely complex, but something can be Extremely complex while at the same time extremely simple and the Simplicity of it is is that you have racial disparities in the United States in Canada in other countries, and there's only two causes of you know, racial disparities either certain groups are better or worse than others and that's why they have more or racist policy.

1 (13m 20s):
Those are the only two options and anti-racist believe that the racial groups are equal. Oil and so they're trying to change policy and endres this believe that certain groups are better or worse than others. So they either trying to get rid of people or segregate people or civilized people indeed. There's two American racial histories. There's there's a history of racist progress. We're in you've had those forces that are constantly seeking to maintain racial inequity and their policies and ideas have become. More sophisticated over time but you've also had a history of anti-racist progress in which you had obviously the reasons why racist policies and ideas have had to become more sophisticated over time is because they've been constantly challenged and anti-racist activists have constantly at times one battles only for them to potentially lose the next battle.

1 (14m 22s):
And so, you know, that's how you can have in the same country. A manifestation of racial progress as for many people President Barack Obama was and a manifestation of racist progress who for many people is Donald Trump, you mentioned Barack Obama and I think a lot of people hoped Barack Obama meant a new day for this American nightmares you call it. But here we are and this weekend you have the rapper Killer Mike come out Atlanta and say, you know, don't burn the city down vote organized and the mayor and Atlanta Echo. That sentiment but I think a lot of people don't think that that'll do the trick. What do you say to people out there right now who don't think voting in a black leader or Progressive leader is enough that this whole system needs to crumble before we can fix this.

1 (15m 12s):
It's one thing to say that one of the ways in which you should Channel your anger is through Seeking to vote into Power anti-racist elected officials and it's yet. Another thing to say that in reaction to people who are protesting or demonstrating against police violence in Atlanta and instead of Atlanta's officials immediately making policy changes that have the capacity to reduce police violence.

1 (15m 54s):
against people instead those Atlanta officials make immediate policy changes to stem violence against property and police and then simultaneously say to those very people. Well, you need to channel your energy into electing people like me, but those very people who those are very elected officials are actually have the power in that moment to make changes and they're not doing it. You can't simultaneously not use your power to make change and then tell people you should be electing people like me and then change will come all the attention right now is on the people who are out in the streets demanding change and you know, the people who are angry the people who are breaking Windows the people who are policing those people but there are a lot of people out there who are concerned who see Injustice and in violence and want to do something but don't know what to do, you know, there's sort of calls to action on social media saying you got to To speak up right now and a lot of people don't know what to say.

1 (17m 1s):
I wonder what would you say to those people? Sure. So I think every individual lives in a neighborhood and chances are that neighborhood has racial disparities every individual operates in an institution whether that's their job whether that's the church whether that's a that's a club chances are Their job their their institution has racial disparities or is doing nothing in the face of racial disparities. And and so I think every individual can look around their own neighborhood their own institution and ask the question.

1 (17m 47s):
Well who here is challenging? The policy that is leading to these racial

3 (17m 54s):
disparities

1 (18m 1s):
and be concerned with those people they can join that organization and if there isn't an organization and I suspect there probably is or in you know, an informal group of people then you create one then you become that organizer. Every single individual has the power to do

3 (18m 19s):
that.

1 (18m 27s):
Professor candy. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Thank you Ibrahim X candy is a professor and the director of the anti-racist research and policy Center at American University in the District of Columbia. He's the author of how to be an anti-racist a book someone, you know could certainly use right now. He also writes for the Atlantic. Sometimes he published a piece this morning titled the American Nightmare. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today

3 (19m 2s):
explained.