0 (1s):
Previously On today explained,

2 (4s):
Okay. This doom loop, it's sort of a death spiral for cities.

3 (8s):
Property values will fall further, taxes will have to rise further, government spending will have to fall further. More people will leave and so forth and so forth.

4 (15s):
We've talked a lot about the doom loop, threatening American downtowns post pandemic, bleak stuff. But today explained producer and reporter, miles Bryan is here with some good news on this subject.

2 (27s):
Yeah. I'm here today to bring you a downtown that's become near and dear to my heart. Which

4 (32s):
Is it Miles? Is it Portland, Maine? Is it Portland, Oregon? Is it Miami, Florida?

2 (37s):
It is Salt Lake City

4 (41s):
In Utah.

1 (43s):
Hm.

2 (44s):
Salt Lake's downtown isn't just recovering from the pandemic, it's thriving. I want to tell you about it because it's doing nearly everything a downtown should be doing right now. And because there's one thing that might blow it all up. AWA

Delta Airlines (1m 3s):
Support for this show comes from Delta Airlines. No one sees the world quite like an airline, but the world seen below is changing fast. That's why Delta Airlines is committed to net zero carbon emissions by 2050. It's why Delta is getting rid of 4.9 million pounds of single use plastics annually and why they're accelerating their push to source sustainable aviation fuel because Delta knows a thing or two about getting where it needs to be. And it's time we all got going together. Learn more at delta.com/sustainability.

6 (1m 44s):
I just started thinking, you know, Salt Lake Ain't that bad. I know. No, no. I mean, I know it sucks and all, but you know, this is like

4 (1m 50s):
Today explains Sean Rames from and Miles Bryant here. Miles Salt, lake City. Really?

2 (1m 56s):
Yeah. It seemed weird to me too, but when I started reporting on Cities Earlier this year, I came across this research from the University of Toronto. It tracks how busy downtowns are by monitoring cell phone activity. Creepy. I know it. It's weird, but it's helpful if you wanna understand how cities are doing right now. So the data goes up to May of this year, and most cities at that time were way less busy in their downtowns than they were in May of 2019. New York was at 67% of its pre covid downtown activity. Phoenix was at 72%. Huh. But downtown Salt Lake City was at 139% of its pre covid activity. Wow. Yeah.

2 (2m 36s):
So Salt Lake was already growing really fast before the pandemic. It has great access to nature and it's been attracting tons of tech and finance jobs recently. But when I bounced all of this off, Tracy Lowe from the Brookings Institution, she said there's one area where downtown Salt Lake really stands out.

7 (2m 53s):
So lots of US metro areas are growing, but mostly they're growing at the edges. What really struck me about Salt Lake City was not just the high rate of population growth, but that Degrowth is at the center of the region in and around the downtown area, which is just really different. There were more apartments built in downtown Salt Lake City last year than in downtown New York City.

4 (3m 18s):
Say what?

2 (3m 20s):
Yeah, it's kind of crazy. I wanted to see for myself how all this new housing can change the feel of a downtown. So in late August, I took a little trip.

4 (3m 28s):
So as you look around downtown Salt Lake, I mean there's just cranes everywhere.

2 (3m 32s):
That's Benjamin Wood. He's a local al weekly rider in Salt Lake and bike and walk. Advocacy guy.

4 (3m 38s):
Most of these have some residential element. There's a lot of mixed use going in. It means there's customers for the restaurants, there's, there's eyes on the street. So it doesn feel so sketchy when it gets dark and it's bringing bodies downtown.

2 (3m 51s):
Ben and I biked around on e-bikes. Woo. Though my battery conked out. Oh, that's

4 (3m 57s):
Tough. You, you need the throttle that I got. We might need to switch bikes. No, I'm good. If you don't mind going slow. Not at all.

2 (4m 4s):
Which was a little sad. Humbling. Humbling. So we were biking around, which is kind of surprising if you know the history of Salt Lake because the city was very much not laid out to be bike friendly or even pedestrian friendly. Mormon leader of Brigham Young settled the Salt Lake Valley with his followers in the mid 19th century. You know, the church and its followers were looking for a refuge and they felt like they found it in its valley shielded by mountains and bordered by the massive Salt water lake from which the city takes its name. But they had some kind of zany ideas about urban design.

4 (4m 40s):
Brigham Young wanted to be able to do a U-turn with a team of oxen. Right. And, that was probably a good idea in 1850. Right. But in 2023, we don't have a lot of ox carts going around. We don't have a lot of teams of oxen. We're trying to turn. What we're left with is nine lane streets.

2 (4m 55s):
So not only are the roads super wide, the blocks are extremely long. Not exactly ideal for walking around, but wood tells me the new development that's going into downtown is actually helping to fix those 19th century design floss

4 (5m 9s):
When new development comes in. They're the ones that are putting in midblock crossings and walkways and PAs. So as things start to turn over, we're starting to cut these walking paths where we've needed them for a long time. They just haven't been possible.

2 (5m 22s):
The city has put in a decent amount of bike lanes. Downtown, public transit downtown is free and very well used. They're at basically a hundred percent of their pre covid ridership. Nice. Yeah. And this is all happening in the capital of a red state in a very car-centric community. So, you know, if it can happen here, I think it's possible. It can happen anywhere.

4 (5m 46s):
Alright. So the city is making downtown a nice place to live. A lot of cities are. How are they getting people to move there in the first place?

2 (5m 54s):
I think the city has done two big things, right? To encourage dense residential development in the downtown core. First they laid out a long-term plan for the area before there was a lot of demand there. And second, they just made it really easy to build. Hmm. So taking a step back, affordable housing is a huge issue in Salt Lake. Single family homes cost an average of more than half a million dollars. And there isn't really anywhere for the city to sprawl. The city's sort of hemmed in by the mountains and the great Salt Lake.

8 (6m 24s):
The state of Utah has been the fastest growing state in the nation.

2 (6m 28s):
I talked about this stuff with Erin Mendenhall. She's the mayor of Salt Lake City. So

8 (6m 32s):
We have a major shortage of missing middle housing and certainly like a lot of other parts of the country, affordable and deeply affordable housing.

2 (6m 42s):
About a decade ago, the city planning department in Salt Lake started changing regulations for what can be built downtown. And in the immediate surrounding area, they allowed more density and reduced parking requirements. And a lot of times when city officials try to make these kinds of changes, neighbors get super mad. Right? Like they don't want to give up their parking spot. New

9 (7m 3s):
High-rise buildings are sprouting up all over Hillcrest, but that's leaving some wondering where all of the new residents are going to park.

2 (7m 9s):
But crucially, Salt Lake did this stuff before the boom in downtown development, which officials say has made it far less of an issue. And since that time, the mayor says, the city has been super focused on just making sure Salt Lake is an easy place to build new housing.

8 (7m 24s):
We're doing something that wasn't happening consistently before. And that's inviting in the permit holders and the developers to sit down with our teams. We'll pull up their permit, we'll look at the process and where the hangups were, which is how we've been able to achieve faster approvals and permitting and inspections

2 (7m 46s):
Since 2016. The time it takes for the city to review a building permit has fallen by two thirds, even as the number of permits being applied for has gone way up. And the result is, Salt Lake City now builds a ton of housing. Last year it built more housing per capita than big expensive cities like New York and Los Angeles as well as more than their other fast growing western piers like Phoenix or Denver. Okay.

4 (8m 9s):
But no offense to Mayor Mendenhall, but it's her job to say the city's functioning really well and made all sorts of good decisions. Did you talk to anyone else involved?

2 (8m 19s):
Yeah, I definitely ran everything I heard from her by experts and advocates and by residential developers, including this guy named Dan Lofgren. He's a longtime developer in the area. Very nice. Very Utah. This is a box of cookies.

10 (8m 35s):
Ruby Snap Gourmet cookies.

2 (8m 38s):
I met him at one of his recently finished apartment buildings.

10 (8m 41s):
Exotics the wrong word because they're all common flavors you would expect. But that's a s'mores cookie, for example. So you've gotta try one. Oh

2 (8m 50s):
Yeah, I'll definitely try one. Is this like a Salt Lake City specialty or, or why these cookies?

10 (8m 55s):
No, it's just our way to say Welcome. I'm glad you're here.

4 (8m 60s):
Everyone's trying to buy you miles.

2 (9m 2s):
But anyway, you know, he told me what the mayor was saying, jives with his experience. He called the situation in downtown Salt Lake over the last couple of years. A quote, virtuous loop.

10 (9m 13s):
Our job growth continues to be pretty robust. Well, job growth means new households in the market. New households mean a demand for housing. And many of those households who are coming to the market in response to that job growth have had experience living in a downtown. Well, what's the natural impact of that? Those residents have capacity and demand for additional services. So more restaurants come, so more services come. So now downtown becomes even that much more attractive place to live. and it starts to build on itself. It starts to kind of gain its own momentum.

2 (9m 51s):
And you know, there's one other factor in this virtuous loop. We gotta talk about the Mormon church. Hmm. They own about a quarter of downtown Salt Lakes land and buildings. Hmm. The church is different incentives than a normal property owner. Right? Like that's sort of intuitive. They're, they're interested in the long-term vitality of downtown Salt Lake because you know, that's the location of their most sacred space. Their sacred temple. And the church actually helped kick off downtown Salt Lake's residential boom years ago when it converted an old shopping mall into a mix of stores, offices, and apartments in condos. During the great recession when, you know, not very much else was getting built.

12 (10m 32s):
The downtown City Creek development sponsored by the church is a vast undertaking. Forbes Magazine calls the Salt Lake City project, the ancient ideal of building a city around its essential sacred space, referring to its close proximity to the worldwide headquarters of the church Temple Square.

4 (10m 49s):
Does it feel like a neighborhood miles 'cause 'cause my experience in downtown Salt Lake City is that it's sort of quiet come nighttime, not a lot of activity.

2 (10m 57s):
I thought it was pretty lively for a mid-size city downtown these days. But John, I like you am old and uncool and so maybe we're not the best people to answer this question, but I found someone who is a good person to answer. Her name is Macy Weeks, and she moved to the edge of Salt Lake City's downtown a year ago.

13 (11m 17s):
I'm 20 years old and Yep. That's about it.

2 (11m 22s):
So this is a pretty residential feeling street. Oh yeah. Very much. Macy grew up in a suburb of Seattle. She's an aspiring songwriter. Teenagers since like the dawn of time. Yeah. Who are into music, have wanted, have met up and made plans to move to the city, but

4 (11m 47s):
Not to

2 (11m 47s):
Salt Lake. Right. To Seattle or New York, or, yeah, no, for sure. How did, how did that happen? Well,

13 (11m 51s):
Seattle's dead basically, and California's too expensive. So if I was gonna find a place that was gonna be like affordable ish and you know, have a good bar scene. Yeah. It's here. It's basically just here. There's like, there's so many young people here. Hang on.

4 (12m 8s):
Wow. R i p Seattle. So do you think this is gonna last, does, does, does the future of of Salt Lake City seem bright?

2 (12m 16s):
You know, Sean, there is one other thing that came up in all my interviews that kind of Cast a shadow over that future.

4 (12m 26s):
I think everything we're talking about comes back to the Lake Salt,

2 (12m 28s):
Lake City's namesake, the great Salt Lake. It's in trouble.

10 (12m 32s):
Heavens, yes. I'm worried about the lake. I'm worried about what the lake means for my kids and grandkids.

2 (12m 36s):
And if there aren't big changes, the whole region's success is in jeopardy.

8 (12m 40s):
The economic, the health impact and the identity impact of that on the state of Utah would be incredibly tragic.

2 (12m 51s):
Okay. I know you hate saying that's Coming up, but what's a good turn here to the break?

4 (12m 55s):
No, I say I hate saying after the break, say, I'm gonna tell you more about the lake when we're back or something. Yeah, yeah.

2 (13m 2s):
I'm gonna tell you all about the lake when we're back.

Delta Airlines (13m 23s):
Support for this show comes from Delta Airlines. No one sees the world quite like an airline, but the world seen below is changing fast. That's why Delta Airlines is committed to net zero carbon emissions by 2050. It's why they're partnering across the industry to create the future of aviation and switching ground vehicle after ground vehicle to electric. It's why Delta is accelerating their push to source sustainable aviation fuel. And it's why they're also getting rid of 4.9 million pounds of single use plastics annually. That's just what Delta's doing. But it'll take more than just the 90,000 people at Delta. It'll take everyone at every airline and in every industry because Delta knows a thing or two about getting where it needs to be. And it's time we all got going together. Learn more at delta.com/sustainability.

14 (14m 16s):
We need more rain and we need it now. That's why I'm asking Utahans of all faiths to join me in a weekend of prayer.

2 (14m 23s):
Today.

4 (14m 23s):
Explained is back with reporter producer Miles Bryan, who just got back from a visit to the urbanist paradise of Salt Lake City, Utah. Unfortunately, the city's namesake is a bit of an issue. Miles.

2 (14m 36s):
Yes. To get a sense of the problem, I drove out to the edge of the great Salt Lake and I met up with this guy named Kevin

15 (14m 42s):
Perry. I'm a professor of atmospheric sciences at the University of Utah.

2 (14m 47s):
Now, if you haven't been to the Great Salt Lake, it's weird. It's not like any big lake that I've spent time at before. It's marshy with these long Salt flats that stretch on forever. And even though the lake is huge, the whole thing looks kind of shallow.

15 (15m 3s):
There used to be a annual swimming race marathon swimming from here to Antelope Island.

2 (15m 11s):
I can, I can see the island, but it looks like you could walk to it. you can

15 (15m 14s):
Now. Huh? There. There's no way to swim from here to there.

4 (15m 17s):
Right. When you hear great Salt Lake, you might be thinking lots of water. But that's not the case here. Remind people why that is.

2 (15m 25s):
Well, the great Salt Lake is a terminal basin, right? Meaning water from streams and rivers flows into it. And for decades, Utah has diverted that water away from the lake to grow crops and to fuel Degrowth of its cities, which means the lake isn't getting enough water.

4 (15m 40s):
And what happens if and when the lake really dries up?

2 (15m 43s):
Well, the consequences of the lake drying up are already here. It's already been happening.

15 (15m 50s):
The first tipping point was when we started exposing vast stretches of the lake bed to the air. And then we had dust plumes that were coming off of the lake. And that's been going on for more than a decade. And then as the lake continues to get lower and lower, last year, they had to pull every single boat off of the Great Salt Lake because the marinas were dry.

17 (16m 15s):
Utah's Department of Natural Resources now planning to dredge the marinas. So search and rescue teams can get their boats out in the event of an emergency.

15 (16m 25s):
So we reached the dust tipping point a decade ago. We reached the boating and recreation tipping point, basically several years ago. And then in October of 2022, we almost reached the salinity tipping point, which is the most dire, it's the death of the ecosystem. Every year, more than 10 million birds stop by this lake in order to gorge themselves on the brine shrimp and the brine flies as the lake shrinks, it gets saltier and saltier. And last October, the salinity levels reach 19%, which is well out of the range of what the brine shrimp and the brine flies can tolerate.

15 (17m 5s):
And they started dying in mass. What

18 (17m 7s):
Would it mean for these birds to not have this lake?

19 (17m 10s):
So they've gotta get from central Canada to Central Argentina or southern Mexico without a stopover, you just can't do it.

15 (17m 17s):
At which point you're coming very, very close to the entire ecosystem collapsing.

2 (17m 29s):
Now I should say that since last fall, there's been a ton of rain and snow in Utah, And that really has helped refill the great Salt Lake a bit. But it's still on a long-term trajectory of collapse.

15 (17m 40s):
There's a worst case scenario than there's a worst, worst case scenario. Okay,

2 (17m 44s):
Lemme get 'em both.

15 (17m 45s):
So from an ecological perspective, the loss of the brine shrimp and the brine flies is the death of the lake and the death of millions of birds that would otherwise come through here.

2 (17m 56s):
But if the lake keeps drying up, it would also decimate the companies that extract minerals like Salt and magnesium out of the lake and generate hundreds of millions of dollars for the state's economy. Every year it would decimate Salt Lake City's skiing industry, which relies on lake effect snow. And perhaps most importantly, for the residents of Salt Lake and the whole region, it would make those dust storms a whole lot worse.

15 (18m 21s):
You also have massive dust plumes, which are coming off the lake and moving into the surrounding communities and exposing the two and a half million people that live adjacent to the lake to everything that is in the dust. Yeah. Including arsenic.

2 (18m 36s):
I asked all my interviewees what they thought about the lake and the potential for these arsenic dust storms, and for most of them it was a really pressing existential concern. Except for Macy, that wasn't true at all for her.

13 (18m 49s):
So many natural disasters all the time, the world is literally exploding. Like of course here is gonna have some awful impending doom event. Fair,

15 (19m 0s):
Honestly.

2 (19m 1s):
But I don't think the looming threat of the great Salt Lake means Salt Lake City is going to have to start shrinking or rolling back some of the changes it's making in its downtown that has made it so much more vibrant than it has been. In fact, I think downtown Salt Lake's growth is actually probably helpful for solving the water crisis. Really. Okay. I know that's gonna take some explanation, but let's start on an alfalfa farm.

15 (19m 31s):
Which farm? Sorry?

2 (19m 33s):
Alfalfa. Alfalfa and hay. Farming in Utah sucks up more than two-thirds of the state's diverted water two-thirds. So saving the great Salt Lake mostly means getting those farmers on board with water conservation And that requires legislative action. For many years, the legislature wasn't super interested in that. You know, it's dominated by Republicans and it wasn't really taking this problem seriously. But in the last few years that's really started to change outta

20 (19m 59s):
Wetland preserved near the great Salt Lake. Governor Spencer Cox held a bill signing ceremony for legislation aimed at saving the lake.

2 (20m 6s):
The legislature made big changes to the state's water laws. And in 2022 passed bills dedicating hundreds of millions of dollars to improving water efficiency in agriculture.

14 (20m 15s):
Now there's an incentive to use less water and, and that's, that's a big deal.

2 (20m 20s):
To be fair, lawmakers have mostly just grabbed the lowest hanging fruit here so far. And lots of people will say they need to do more and they need to do it faster. In fact, a bunch of environmental groups are suing the state to force them to do just that. The suit

21 (20m 33s):
Filed by Sierra Club, the Utah Rivers Council and Utah Physicians for a healthy environment and others seek to force the state to create a plan to raise water levels.

2 (20m 43s):
But I gotta say I was surprised to find that there seems to be a bipartisan consensus that this is a serious problem. Hmm. And you know, this consensus is exemplified by one guy Utah Speaker of the house. His name's Brad Wilson. He's a conservative. Republican lives in the Salt Lake City excerpts. He actually just announced he's resigning in November to make a run for Senate. But over the last couple of years, he's made saving the great Salt Lake, his marquee issue.

22 (21m 9s):
The politics of Salt Lake City are different than the politics of where I live, but we care a lot about the city and a lot of it goes back to our pioneer heritage. Hmm. I mean, the first real city that was settled was Salt Lake City by our pioneer ancestors. And we care about it as a community because of that.

4 (21m 33s):
This goes back to Joseph Smith and, and Brigham Young in the gang. Exactly.

2 (21m 37s):
And the church, which is a leader in so many ways, has been a leader in changes. Downtown is also on board with water conservation.

23 (21m 45s):
The church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints has donated thousands of shares of water to the great Salt Lake.

2 (21m 52s):
But even so, Brad Wilson told me the politics of this effort are still tricky. Cities have to find some water savings as well. I

22 (21m 59s):
Think that tension between growth and agriculture slash water use in general is going to be the tug and pull that will happen over the next decade,

4 (22m 11s):
Over the next decade. Strikes me as a little optimistic, considering as we just heard from your scientists, that this is happening right now. Does, does this right now mean that this idyllic picture you painted of Salt Lake City and its growth is is gonna slow down, is gonna stop?

2 (22m 28s):
Well, now we get back to the the optimism, I promise. Because I think downtown Salt Lake is a model for how the region can keep growing while shrinking its water usage. And the key to that is where city's water goes. Kevin told me half of all the water that Utah cities use goes to landscaping. It goes to the Kentucky bluegrass lawns that you notice when you visit and then fill the region outside of downtown. Every apartment or condo built in downtown Salt Lake has meant one less lawn.

8 (23m 1s):
We are an example of how adding population in the right way actually reduced our water consumption, allowed our city to grow. I don't know, a city or a town in this nation. if doesn want to grow,

2 (23m 16s):
You know, what are we supposed to take away from all this? One obvious lesson is that cities running low on water, and there's a bunch of them in America these days, should look to density as a way to grow sustainably. But there's a bigger one, I think too. You know, it often feels to me like we live in this zero sum world when it comes to growth right now. You know, it's like cities versus states in urban areas. It's new development versus protecting nature, or not displacing long-time residents. To me, the thing that makes me optimistic about the Salt Lake City story is that it points towards the possibility that we can break out of that zero sum world that, you know, it's maybe possible to get all the benefits of a growing population and economy and still care about the environment.

4 (24m 3s):
But Miles, one thing that occurs to me here is is you're saying the reason Salt Lake City and its environments have managed to sort of find a common purpose here is because they all share this, this history, this religion, even that ties a lot of them together. What about all the cities that don't have that?

2 (24m 23s):
Sure. They maybe have a bigger challenge in getting on the same page, but nearly all American cities have their own housing crisis. Right? And the whole country faces an existential threat from climate change. So to me, the Salt Lake story is a nice reminder that cooperation is possible. That this kind of story doesn't always have to end in doom and gloom.

4 (24m 46s):
So are you moving to Salt Lake City?

2 (24m 51s):
I was convinced my wife not so much.

4 (24m 59s):
Miles Bryan today explained Miles was edited by Matthew Collette and fact checked by Serena Solin and Laura Bullard. Our show was mixed by David Herman Go Utes

Delta Airlines (25m 33s):
Support for this show came from Delta Airlines. No one sees the world quite like an airline, but the world seen below is changing fast. That's why Delta Airlines is committed to net zero carbon emissions by 2050. It's why Delta is getting rid of 4.9 million pounds of single use plastics annually. And why they're accelerating their push to source sustainable aviation fuel because Delta knows a thing or two about getting where it needs to be. And it's time we all got going together. Learn more at delta.com/sustainability.