0 (1s):
Today explained I'm Sean Rambo. I'm standing outside the federal reserve building in lower Manhattan. It's an old stone building with steel cages around its tall ground floor windows. There's a us flag hanging above the main door and a couple federal reserve police officers standing under it right now. 7 billion of Afghanistan's money is being held here. It's the central bank of Afghanistan's reserve funds. And when the Taliban took over last August, the United States froze the money here in the federal reserve of New York. But one year later, the Afghan economy is crumbling and the United States is facing more and more calls to release this money on the show today, we're gonna hear about how dire things have become in Afghanistan and why people think the Taliban needs to be trusted with these billions of dollars of frozen funds.

2 (1m 0s):
Hey, I'm Sam Sanders and I'm hosting a new culture podcast. It's called Intuit from vulture and New York magazine each week on the show we get into the pop culture that we just can't stop thinking about like Beyonce. I mean, we'll talk about other things too, but let's be real Beyonce. It's gonna be a big part of this show. And that's the that on that into it. The weekly culture show from vulture with new episodes, every Thursday, subscribe, wherever you get your podcasts

0 (1m 42s):
Today explained Ramis firm. The second, the United States withdrew from Afghanistan. The Taliban took over. It was clear proof that the previous government existed by the grace of the United States armed forces and the story isn't dissimilar for the Afghan economy. It was twist tied to the United States. Billions of the Afghan central banks reserves were stashed at the federal reserve in New York. And the funds remain here as the Afghan economy is crumbling.

3 (2m 10s):
What the end of the occupation showed once and for all is that the economy they set up for 20 years was a trap like the president couldn't pay his own office without the United States. And there were limits placed on production on what could be produced, how it could be produced, where it could be produced. But the reality of that economy was that it was entirely dependent on the continuation of that occupation. And no one really thought about what happens the day that it ends the us, the EU, the UN cut it off from the international financial system.

3 (2m 54s):
There's something like 9 billion worth of Avalon central bank assets that they refused to, to return to the central bank of a Afghanistan. That includes hundreds of millions that were actually the personal savings of just consumer banking. That also was a major setback, the lack of physical cash. You know, whether that be because ATMs and such aren't functioning or whether that be that there's no actual physical, new notes being produced. All of this impacted the highest levels of the

4 (3m 28s):
Economy. The banks have largely remained closed when they are open, there are strict limits on how much you can withdraw. And it all points to a much bigger fiscal problem of how Afghanistan is going to pay its way under Taliban government.

3 (3m 44s):
Today, we met a woman who had a fairly high position in the government and, you know, she went from making 52,000 of on east to 13,000. In one year, cousin of mine went from making 40 something thousand to 8,000 to making about a hundred dollars in one month to support seven people in his family. On the case of the woman, she's told to stay at home until they can find a place for her quote unquote, and the case of the man, you know, he goes to the office, he pays the gas money every month, but what does he really make to support, you know, the seven people in his household. And this is a very common predicament for people in this country.

3 (4m 24s):
And they're still relatively lucky in that they have some sort of an income, you know, there are so many other people that essentially, as soon as the occupation ended, you know, these companies that were reliant on these logistics and these other kinds of contracts, they either ran away or they went out of business, which means that the people who worked for them also lost their jobs. And you have to remember that each of these people probably have 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, others that they're supporting

0 (4m 56s):
Ali Latifi is a journalist based in Kaul. We asked him what life is like today for Afghans on the brink.

3 (5m 4s):
You know, in the beginning they were selling their possessions. Some people, you know, may sell or rent out their homes or their properties that they have. Those that had some level of that. I saw a driver of a foreign media outlet, you know, and he was pushing a cart on the streets, collecting cans. People are doing anything that they can to make some level of money. I mean, I've written about people who are selling their kidneys to make money. People who are donating blood to make money. You know, obviously like the basic economies going on, people have to buy food, they have to buy water, but it's much more difficult.

6 (5m 45s):
I have no work, no money, no food. I have to sell my daughter. He says, I have no other choice. My father has sold me because we don't have bread, rice and flour.

8 (5m 57s):
He has sold me to an old man.

0 (5m 60s):
And then I think there's like a 6.2 magnitude earthquake back in June,

8 (6m 5s):
It was a Afghanistan's deadliest earthquake in two decades, the 6.1 magnitude quake struck this rural region in the middle of the night houses made of mud bricks and stone crumbled in an instant,

0 (6m 18s):
How much worse does that make things?

3 (6m 20s):
It makes it much worse because you think about it with hurricane Katrina, even the us government did an awful job at addressing a natural disaster, right?

0 (6m 30s):
Yeah.

3 (6m 30s):
They couldn't get it together enough. And then in a Afghanistan, you know, again, when you had billions of dollars of aid during the Republic, there was so much corruption that when natural disasters did happen, there was so much corruption and competence in the government that it didn't actually go to the people that needed it, the money and the systems weren't necessarily proper and the correct aid wasn't getting in. And now you have tall libs who have, they know how to blow something up. They don't know how to build it. And they don't necessarily have the education and the qualifications to run, say a ministry or a directorate, or to know how to handle a proper aid distribution.

3 (7m 11s):
So that makes it much more difficult in itself. The one good thing that I will say, you know, because I covered that earthquake and I was in the earthquake zones is that I saw the Avalon people themselves taking the situation into their own hands. So you would see businessmen from HIRA and the west coming and giving, you know, hundreds of thousands of Avalon E's worth of aid. You know, you would see the owner of one of the biggest malls in Calwell coming and giving aid. You would see groups of young people coming and the best part about it. Again, like I'm not saying this is good, but like the one good thing about it was that all of these people would come back and say, well, what do these people really need?

0 (7m 55s):
What's gonna get Afghanistan out of this economic crisis.

3 (8m 0s):
Well, for one, you know, whoever is in charge of a honest, on going forward needs to come up with a real economic plan that is no longer dependent on aid that is dependent on production, on services, on exports, on imports, on the things that make an economy. You know, the Taliban has tried to regulate exports much more. They say they're encouraging local business and production as much as they can. But again, these are, you know, smaller sort of steps. These aren't actual plans. This is a great time for the Toban to prove that they aren't the Islamic Republic, which means to prove that they aren't corrupt and to prove that they won't be just beholden to the outside world for money in the sense that, you know, they depend on the outside world to pay their government salaries.

0 (8m 52s):
Is there any future in Afghanistan that, that you can envision that doesn't involve the Taliban in control of the government?

3 (8m 60s):
I mean, I think we need to ask is bringing another regime, gonna solve anything, because if you look at it over the last 50 years, we've went from a kingdom to a Republic, to communism, to being run by wars and then to a civil war then to being run by the Taliban for the first time, then to an alleged Western democracy, then back to the Taliban, should we keep pushing for some kind of a regime change? Or should we push the Taliban to finally understand you won the war you took over, you are the government now. So now you have to make the effort with the people and you have to embrace them and work with them, bring women back into their government jobs, restart these schools and find ways to, to, to fix the economy.

0 (9m 55s):
Ali kept coming back to this idea when we spoke and it kind of surprised me. He wasn't totally outraged by Taliban rule. He wasn't calling for a new regime. The Taliban government to him was the most viable one at this point. Now that the world's focus on Afghanistan has long faded. I asked him if the Afghan people felt

3 (10m 17s):
Forgotten, angry, and obviously the, the racist rhetoric coming out from Europe and the United States during the beginning of the war in Ukraine also, didn't help

9 (10m 29s):
People are hiding out in bomb shelters, but this isn't a place with all due respect. You know, like Iraq or Afghanistan that has seen conflict raging for decades. You know, this is a relatively civilized, relatively European. I have to choose those words carefully too, a city where you wouldn't expect that or hope that it's going to happen.

3 (10m 52s):
Seeing reporters for some of the biggest media outlets in the world say, well, these aren't third world brown people, you know, which is almost their exact words that didn't help either because that made it very clear that what we had been afraid of all along really was how you think, you know, to you. We are just third world brown people that deserve to be refugees and sent off to Rwanda

0 (11m 22s):
Ali Latif. He's a reporter based in kale in a minute, we're gonna hear why billions of dollars of Afghanistan's money is sitting in the federal reserve in New York. It's today explained

Babbel (11m 45s):
Today's episode is sponsored by Babbel for most of us. Second language classes in high school or college did not exactly leave us fluent. I spent nine years living in north Africa and studying Arabic and even today, far from fluent nine years now, thanks to Babbel. There's a fun and easy way to learn a new language. Whether you're gonna be traveling abroad or connecting with some family, or you just have some free time. Babbel teaches bite size language lessons that you can actually use in the real world. Babbel allows you to choose from 14 different languages, including Spanish, French, Italian, and German plus Babbel. Speech recognition. Technology helps you improve your pronunciation and your accent accent. Oh, and your accent. There are so many ways to learn with Babbel on top of lessons, you can access podcasts, games, video stories, and even live classes. Plus it comes with a 20 day money back guarantee. Right now, save up to 60% off your subscription. When you go to babbel.com/explained, that's babbel.com/explained for up to 60% off your subscription babble language for life

Ramp (12m 60s):
Today's episode is sponsored by ramp buying stuff for your job can be a hassle. You have to keep track of receipts. You have to fill out forms when you have those receipts. Some maybe it'll get better, but for the moment, ramp can help you with the annoying parts of buying stuff for work ramp is a corporate card and a financial software suite designed to help you save time and money. It gives you control and insight into your organization's finances. You can create budgets and issue cards to every employee with specific limits and restrictions. Ramp's accounting software automatically collects receipts and categorizes your expenses in real time so that you don't have to. It's easy to get started and start making payments in less than 15 minutes. Whether you are buying thousands of dollars in equipment or just buying lunch at the moment, you can get $250 when you join ramp, just go to ramp.com/explained that's R amp.com/explained

0 (14m 11s):
We're back today explained, as you heard earlier in the show, the Afghan economy is in a shambles and all the while billions of dollars of the country's money are sitting in new York's federal reserve. The money belongs to Afghanistan central bank, but the United States froze the funds when the Taliban took over the country last year. But the pressure to unfreeze them is mounting everyone from the United nations, secretary general, to us lawmakers, to foreign eight organizations to Andres Aras, think it's time to give the money back.

11 (14m 42s):
I'm a senior research fellow at CPR, and I'm a former central banker.

0 (14m 48s):
Andres was a central banker in Ecuador where he also ran for president in 2021. Since he knows a thing or two about central banks, we asked him to help us understand the conflict around Afghanistan's reserves.

11 (15m 1s):
So the total amount of money is 7 billion that's in the us and the us federal reserve 9 billion is the total amount of reserves. The central bank of Afghanistan had elsewhere, including the us. So it includes some European countries, quite a sizeable amount for one of the poorest countries in the world. This money is what's called international reserves of a country, and they are usually held by the country's central bank. Now it's important to mention that a central bank is not just a bank that belongs to a government. It's a bank of banks.

11 (15m 42s):
It's where private banks, where commercial banks also keep their money. So if you take that money away from the central bank, you're taking the money away from the commercial banking system, which means that depositors don't have access to their cash. Financial transactions are then impossible. The payment system does not work, and it makes it extremely difficult for people to go about business, whether it's international trade, but also domestic transactions. The, the people of Afghanistan need their bank accounts to be active. They need the payment system to work. And so there has been a lot of pressure from civil society, the United nations, international organizations pressuring their United States to basically let this money go.

11 (16m 32s):
A lot of signers from civil society organizations, humanitarian organizations, the secretary general of the United nations has said, please, we need this money back in Afghanistan,

12 (16m 44s):
Freezing temperatures and frozen assets are a little combination for the people of Afghanistan. The function of Afghanistan, central bank must be preserved and assisted. And the past identified for conditional release of African foreign currency reserves.

11 (17m 2s):
It, it is sort of arbitrary that one country can take away the deposits of another country. So now there are some negotiations where, you know, Taliban and the us government are on the table deciding what to do about this money. And it's very important that the full amount of money go back to the central bank of Afghanistan. Not because we wanna give this money to the Taliban, but because we want the financial system to function properly, and we want the government institutions, you know, the different ministries, the different institutions of government to work regularly in terms of paying their suppliers, paying salaries to the public servants and so on.

0 (17m 54s):
Why do you think it is that the Biden administration is not releasing these funds?

11 (17m 59s):
Well, the, there has been a lot of improvisation on behalf of the Biden administration with regards to the Afghan funds. At first, they froze cuz they didn't know what else to do. Then they sat on the table with the Taliban. And now they're saying, okay, sure. We recognize that we did something illegal and maybe we can put a few bandaids on the situation and maybe we can release little droplets of these international reserves, you know, certain quantity every month, but that's not how finance works internationally. You know, whether you can't be bit by bit legal every month, either you're illegal or you're legal. And when the United States recognizes the fact that these funds do belong to the Afghan people and to this financial system of Afghanistan, they're basically recognizing that what they did was unlawful.

11 (18m 50s):
And now we have to find a way that, you know, restores the functioning of an important institution in every economy, such as the central bank. Can you imagine that? I don't know, for example, the European central bank, all of a sudden didn't have access to its money or the Mexican central bank or, or even the us federal reserves, all of a sudden stopped working. This is the kind of crisis that's happening in Afghanistan. You know, basically a crisis where the financial system is not working. People do not have access to their accounts to their money and have to rely on either barter or just pro poverty.

11 (19m 33s):
You know, I don't have purchasing power,

0 (19m 36s):
But unlike all the other examples, you cited Europe, Mexico, the United States handing over this money to the Afghan central bank in a way is also handing over this money to a violent terrorist organization that runs the country.

11 (19m 54s):
You can design safeguards so that the money doesn't go where it doesn't have to. And this is where the negotiations are. For example, the us is requesting that the Afghan government set a trust fund that auditors third party contractors and so on to monitor that the transactions are not going for illicit purposes or for financing or terrorism, according to the global international standards that are already in place. And to at the same time restore the functioning of the Afghan economy.

0 (20m 29s):
Is there fear though that the Taliban could find a way to circumvent safeguards

11 (20m 34s):
The us and, and many people of course fear that. And that is why the negotiations are, are ongoing as to what type of additional safeguards can be set in place. For example, the Biden administration is now saying we want a third party contractor defined by the United States to be a sort of, you know, a watchdog over the movements of the money in the central bank to make sure that they are not bypassed and, and so on. So I mean, this, this is a possibility. And like I said, it's, it's a, basically a global standard.

11 (21m 14s):
Now

0 (21m 14s):
At the same time, there are some people who would prefer the money stay in America and go to victims of nine 11 though. Right?

11 (21m 20s):
That's what the Biden administration decided

13 (21m 23s):
Us president Joe Biden sign an executive order, allowing half of the 7 billion in frozen assets from Afghanistan central bank to be set aside in a trust fund, slated for humanitarian assistance in the country

11 (21m 37s):
To basically set aside half of the amount of the total reserves,

13 (21m 41s):
The rest three and a half billion dollars is held back while us courts consider claim for financial compensation by families of the nine 11 victims.

11 (21m 51s):
Some of the victims of nine 11 have come out and said, Hey, you know, you can't take this money away from the people of Afghanistan. It it's very different when you have an institution that belongs to the financial system and to the overall economy in general. Then if you directly make that a liability of the Taliban movement itself,

14 (22m 15s):
Soon after the attacks, my husband and I published a letter called not in our son's name, calling on the administration, not to retaliate against the people of Afghanistan for the attacks of nine 11, it's beyond my imagination that it should have come to this.

0 (22m 35s):
Afghans are hungry. Afghans are starving to death. What can the central bank do with this money to help the Afghan people when, and if it's released.

11 (22m 45s):
So when people need to buy food from abroad, they need to send an international wire transfer and banks have their accounts at the central bank. And the central bank pays for those imports of food with reserves. But if those reserves are blocked, they can't pay for imported food. That's why it's very important to have those reserves be available for the central bank. So the central bank can make them available to the banking system and people, companies, businesses can go about importing necessary, food stuff, energy and other requirements for day to day life of people in Afghanistan.

11 (23m 29s):
You know, the, the situation is, is very bad. Also, you need this to signal to the global economy that you have enough muscle power in terms of reserves in terms of a stock of money. So, so that your currency is worth a bit more, right? I mean, when the funds were frozen, the value of the currency in Afghanistan went down radically. And of course that makes the, the people of Afghanistan lose purchasing power. And of course that makes their currency basically worthless.

0 (24m 6s):
Have you ever seen a situation as desperate as the one that Afghanistan currently faces?

11 (24m 12s):
I will be completely honest. I have never seen something so desperate in terms of the use of central bank reserves in terms of the threat and the action against a domestic economy. And I've seen some pretty bad stuff in, in terms of embargoes, in terms of locates, in terms of, you know, withdrawing cash transfers to a country and so on. I think the situation in Afghanistan is definitely a worst case scenario. Yeah.

0 (24m 44s):
So it sounds like it could help this current crisis that Afghani stands in, but it's not gonna necessarily help them kickstart a new economy. What's gonna get them there.

11 (24m 55s):
First. You need to stabilize the situation. This is an ongoing humanitarian crisis. Not only were the funds frozen, but basically all of the humanitarian aid from Western economies also froze when the Taliban took over. So there are no funds basically entering the Afghan economy and the money is there. The money is there belongs to the Afghan people, not to the Taliban. We have to put in the adequate safeguards so that there can be actual central bank management and policy for the benefit of the people,

0 (25m 39s):
Andres Aras, he's an Ecuadorian politician and economist and a senior research fellow at CPR. That's the center for economic policy and research earlier in the show you heard from Ali Latifi, who's a freelance journalist based in Kaul. Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain edited by Matthew fact, checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul mosey. It's today explained.