0 (0s):
Just before the Men's World Cup kicked off last year, we had footy fanatic, Roger Bennett. On today explained, Noelle asked him, who's gonna win the tournament? He said Brazil was the favorite, but

1 (11s):
I think the story going into the World Cup is that of Argentina. He

0 (16s):
Called it about Argentina and Lionelle Messi.

1 (19s):
That does not make me a genius. He is the single greatest footballer the world has ever seen. It was only a matter of time,

0 (26s):
But we called him back to tell him he was wrong about something else. He said America would finally become a fully realized soccer loving nation in 2026 around the time of the next men's World Cup. But with the arrival of Messi, it looks like that moment's already here.

1 (40s):
God, if if that makes me wrong, I'm so delighted to be wrong. Sean Lionel Messi week in, week out is, is creating transcendent alchemy on, on, on fields in this nation from sea to shining sea.

0 (53s):
Things are getting Messi in America and soccer's starting to look a lot like football.

3 (1m 0s):
Donald Trump is facing 91 felony charges across four indictments But. one charge in Georgia stands out.

4 (1m 9s):
The Rico case against Donald. Trump in Georgia involves 19 defendants And. when you have a case involving 19 defendants and the wide range of crimes that they've been charged with committing, it creates all kinds of complications.

3 (1m 26s):
The ins and outs of Rico cases. And what this could mean for 2024 This week on the weeds.

5 (1m 34s):
10 years ago, chance the rapper released a mix tape called Acid Rap. It was full of a certain joy and exuberance that feels lacking in hip hop today. I asked him why that is.

6 (1m 46s):
I think s just worse. Like I think just worse in terms of public safety. you know, even the weather like the earth is not, not as lit as it was.

5 (1m 60s):
Chance Rapper on how hip hop has changed. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast

7 (2m 12s):
Passes to Hot Hot. He passes to Noel King. She cuts. Oh my, it's today.

2 (2m 19s):
Explain

0 (2m 21s):
Ramis Ferrum. We got Roger Bennett coming up in the second half, but we're gonna kick things off with Tom Bogert from The Athletic. I asked him how mess he's been doing since joining Major Leagues soccer at Inter Miami.

8 (2m 33s):
It's going to sound dumb and I promise, I'm actually an expert on this stuff, but it's still somehow taken you by surprise. The greatest player of all time has been the greatest player of all time. Immediately, like a month ago, there were real questions about whether the team was gonna be good enough around him.

9 (2m 53s):
Miami right now, sitting in in last place, are they going to be playing in the

10 (2m 58s):
Playoffs? No. No, not a chance. Not a chance, no.

11 (3m 1s):
Really? Yeah, it's a learning. This is a learning

8 (3m 3s):
Time. Yeah, it's a learning time. Whether he was gonna be from minute one ready to go or how long an integration period might take. And then his first game when everybody thought he might play five minutes, 10 minutes off the bench because he just took a month off after, you know, a a year in which he won the World Cup and played a lot in France and played a lot for the national team. He had like three or four training sessions with Miami. They thought maybe he'd be good for 10 minutes in front

12 (3m 26s):
Of over 22,000 in front of LeBron James, Serena Williams, Kim Kardashian.

8 (3m 32s):
Nope, he played 35 minutes. Here it is. And Messi

2 (3m 42s):
Any other way,

8 (3m 47s):
Because of course that's how he announced his interest to this league. And then going down the line in this tournament, the league's cup scoring in, in, I believe every game playing Ole

2 (3m 56s):
Around Zimmerman. He's inevitable and he's inevitable. And inter Miami League one now

8 (4m 8s):
In 10 goals or whatever. He's top five all time and inter Miami goals already. And he has not yet played a league in Miami. Had I think something like a million or less than a million social media followers on Instagram before Messi signed. And within 24 hours they were the most followed American professional sports team, I believe. Wow.

0 (4m 30s):
And just like for people who don't know anything about his game or like why he matters so much, what would you say to someone like who just beamed down from, you know, like Venus and was like, what's the deal with this guy? Why is everyone so hyped about him? What would you say to that person?

8 (4m 45s):
Leno Messi is the greatest player of all time. He is the favorite to win the Baur, which is like the M V P across all soccer leagues in the world. For the calendar year, eight months ago, he won the World Cup and was named the best player. He won the biggest tournament there is to win in soccer and was named the very best player in the world at that tournament. That's

13 (5m 5s):
The moment for Argentina. But for Lionel Messi, a moment that cements his legacy as the greatest of all time and a moment that will be in memory for not just him, but for Argentina and millions and billions around the world.

0 (5m 22s):
How big a deal was that for him?

8 (5m 24s):
He spoke about this as well, that it just kind of took a weight off his shoulders. That was the only trophy that was eluding him.

11 (5m 32s):
I achieved everything with the national team as I always dreamed of. I achieved everything in my career at Barcelona on a personal level too. Winning the World Cup was closing my career in a unique way.

8 (5m 49s):
He won everything as a player for Barcelona. He won every individual award you could imagine. He won the biggest title there is to win win for a soccer player. Every single event he has ever played in, except for the French Cup, he has won. It is insane. He's a serial winner. And the World Cup was just the cherry on top to enshrined him as the greatest of all time.

0 (6m 11s):
How do you go from being enshrined as the goat to joining a team in Miami in a league that isn't known for, you know, sporting a lot of stars.

8 (6m 24s):
You want to enjoy your soccer, you want to move on in your career?

15 (6m 34s):
See, Lord, I you,

11 (6m 37s):
This is what I was looking for when I made the decision with my family to enjoy it once more as I've done my whole career after two difficult years. The truth is, we had it rough

8 (6m 52s):
And he spoke about when he left Barcelona, he didn't wanna leave.

11 (6m 57s):
Yes, that is the truth that I was excited about. The prospect of returning to Barcelona,

8 (7m 2s):
That club was forced to lose him because of how terribly mismanaged their finances were. And the only realistic option was to go to P s G in France. He wasn't ready to leave. He didn't want to leave, and he spoke about that.

11 (7m 17s):
But on the other hand, after seeing what I experienced after leaving the club, I didn't want to be in the same position again, waiting for what would happen and leaving my future in other people's hands.

8 (7m 32s):
This was a decision that he's made over a long course of time. He's wanted to come to Miami. He wanted to be part of this league and move the league forward and be part and have this lifestyle and have this kind of chapter at the end of his career. And that was something that he thought about. It's something he wanted this, this was, this was not a Snap decision. It's been in the works for a very long time. So he's at peace, he's happy.

11 (7m 55s):
But as luck would have it, we're in a place where we're happy not just because of the results on the pitch, but because of the everyday life with my wife, with my kids, our lifestyle and the way we spend our time. Truth is we're enjoying this moment very much.

8 (8m 9s):
It was striking to me the, the quotes that he's had And what a World Cup title really has done to both his psyche, to the way that he presents himself, speaks to people. He's, he, he's visibly lighter with this kind of pressure off of his shoulders. This this one trophy that he had been chasing forever. So I, I think that, that this is part of his victory lap and, and he's earned it.

0 (8m 34s):
It seems like there's a lot of like innuendo allegations around the details of, of his final deal with Inter Miami. What do we know for sure?

8 (8m 45s):
We know that this is a unique one of one deal for a one of one player. So Inter Miami are paying him between 30 and 50 million, I believe. And those figures will become public at some point. The Major League Soccer Players Association releases them for every single player. Hi Maritz. The rest of this deal where m l s could even kind of compete with Sadi money, and let's be clear, they couldn't completely compete. The

16 (9m 11s):
Last offer that Messi turned down to go play in the Sadi Arabian professional football soccer league was a three year $1.6 billion contract. $1.6 billion. That's billion with a beat.

0 (9m 24s):
More than a billion dollars.

8 (9m 26s):
More than a billion dollars. It's, it's incomprehensible amounts of money that, that he turned down to come to Miami because he preferred the lifestyle and wanted to be here. But the way that they could at least help make him whole a little bit here is he can buy a stake of the Inter Miami franchise. So he'll become a minority owner when he retires. Adidas, his Longtime sponsor is a sponsor of Major League Soccer. He's going to get royalties from shirt sales and, and, and licensing ship the details of the specific details there. I don't believe Republic, but Adidas is helping.

0 (9m 55s):
Did you know that Lionel Messi's inter Miami Jersey is completely sold out? Adidas have stated that they cannot keep up with the overwhelming demand with orders far surpassing their production capabilities.

8 (10m 5s):
Apple TV is also helping. They are giving Messi a cut of all new subscribers to m s season pass, the broadcasting for the league. So it's a unique opportunity and it's, you know, I've had fans of other teams that complain, why can't Apple TV offer this to somebody for Orlando? Why did they do this for Miami? And the obvious answer is, this is a one of one player. There are no other deals like for Leon Messi because there are no other Leon Messies. Tell

0 (10m 32s):
Us about this team he's joining. What state were they in before he joined and how quickly did their fortunes change after he joined

8 (10m 39s):
Inter Miami? Were the worst team in the league before Leno Messi joined, They had a transfer ban that handcuffed them a little bit in the roster building. Another part is they had some injuries and the third part is they were holding significant roster resources open, hoping and planning that Leno Messi and Sergio Bus gets, were going to join this summer And. they did. Hmm. And then they wanted to have maximum flexibility to add to the roster as they saw fit. They ended up undergoing a coaching change right before Messi came. The new coach came in, they signed Messi, they signed Bussette, they signed their former Barcelona teammate Jordy Alba. So if you're counting at home, that's the best player of all time. Possibly the best defense of midfielder of all time and possibly the best left back of all time, all joined this team mid-season and yeah, they went from the worst in the league to winning the first tournament that these players played at and doing so in in dominating styles at time and then getting by with that, that kind of experience and quality that, you know, only some of these players really have someone

18 (11m 38s):
From Philadelphia. You've gotta stop Leono Messi from 30 Yard.

0 (11m 54s):
And what's the impact on the league? How is Messi's presence affecting the league as a whole?

8 (12m 0s):
There's a whole lot more eyeballs on it, and the league is not going to be able to turn every single set of those eyeballs into lifelong fans. That's unrealistic. But even if they turn 10%, 20% of the people who are only tuning in, only paying attention because of Leno Messi, if they turn them into to full-time fans, the long-term fans is his beyond success. Messi has played two road games so far in Dallas and in Nashville. Tickets are outta control and all the tickets that he's going to in the future are, are absolutely outta control. Hundreds and hundreds of dollars when he comes to Red Bull Arena to play the New York Red Bulls when he goes to Chicago fire, millions of dollars in revenue for these clubs outside of the like direct monetary value that he's going to bring to the rest of the league.

8 (12m 44s):
And in terms of club values and, and ticket prices and merchandise and all that stuff. He's also going to help drive the conversation to loosen roster and spending restrictions in this league. M L Ss is unique to global soccer and having not just a salary cap, but a very kind of strict set of rules and rules that are kind of always changing and difficult to follow along with. Messi has helped reignite the debate as to whether they should be loosening the restrictions, whether the training was to go off, whether they should start throwing money like this at, you know, there is no other Messi, but hey, there's a whole lot of other really good stars in the world that maybe, maybe teams see that, oh, it is worth it if we spend $20 million on a player or $10 million or, or whatever it is.

8 (13m 26s):
So I'm very curious to see his lasting legacy. David Beckham's lasting legacy for me was that he helped push the infrastructure forward. He accelerated that progress a great deal the hotels teams were staying at before Beckham got here were a joke. The meals they had, the, the playing surfaces, training, facilities, stadiums, all this have been built maybe not 100% directly because of David Beckham, but he helped accelerate that evolution. So that's his legacy to get to the league, to the point in talent and and infrastructure that it was ready for Messi. And now Messi has the chance to make his legacy that the quality of this league can finally really take off and, and fan interest can, can come with it.

0 (14m 9s):
And is he gonna win the m l s cup on the way

8 (14m 11s):
He's gotta get there first. And I, that's my favorite storyline for the rest of the season. Inter Miami are 14 points below the playoff line with 12 games left. Every single game is going to be like a final. They have to win probably nine, maybe eight, depending on other results. But there is going to be no game that's like, ah, yeah, you could just rest him here. Or ah, like this doesn't matter. Who cares? Like every single game is gonna have stakes from, again, from his debut a month ago in, in a knockout tournament through whenever his season ends. And that, that's, that's it's must watch Stevie Man. Just plain it simple.

0 (14m 40s):
Well, you know what the Argentinians are known for, right,

8 (14m 42s):
Tom? What are they known for?

0 (14m 44s):
Steaks.

8 (14m 47s):
Perfect, perfect.

0 (14m 52s):
Tom Bogart is a staff writer at The Athletic. Find his stuff at The Athletic dot com. Finally turning soccer into football in a minute. On today explained

2 (15m 14s):
Fox Creative.

Walgreens (15m 16s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by Walgreens. My name's Furry, I'm a Walgreens pharmacist. I think that desire to care was really from my mom and there was no way that charity and compassion wasn't gonna be a part of my life. My dad was very sick as I grew up at the age of 12, he had his first heart attack. It was a kind of shock to the system and that's really where the kind of interest in science and health and the caring profession started. Art. There's A social aspect of being a pharmacist. You feel like you're connecting people to the right sources of information. The Walgreens app is a family app and it's designed really for anyone who's a caretaker or caregiver. The app is unique because you have a pharmacy chat box there that is a confidential chat box. A lot of patients, they start medicines for mental health and that's an area where they're struggling. They don't always wanna talk on the phone. And, they have natural concerns about side effects. So by offering them the Walgreens app and letting them know that there's a confidential chat box, it's actually really reassuring for them. You can set yourself up a reminder to take your medicine and that helps. If you're taking more than three or four medicines or you're supporting a family member who needs that extra help. Just Download the Walgreens app or go to walgreens.com/easy Rx to learn more.

20 (16m 50s):
Hey there, it's Noelle from today Explained. Vox is trying to learn more about how and when and where our audience listens. And so they're conducting a focus group to hear directly from Listeners like you to help us make our shows better. The focus group discussion will only take about an hour and I'm told you will get a cash gift if you participate. If you're interested, you can go to Vox dot com slash research to apply. Once again, that's Vox dot coms slash research. Thanks for doing this

0 (17m 32s):
Today. Explained us back and we're joined by Roger Bennett, founder of the Menon Blazers Media Empire. Roger, how long has the United States been on this journey to realize this dream of, of footy maybe being half as popular here as it is abroad? I think

1 (17m 47s):
You have to go back to the Boston Tea Party, that rejection of all things European. I think you can make that case, you know, I think you could say there's a, there's a moment. 1930, the very first World Cup, The United States men got into the semifinals. We don't talk about that achievement enough. We do have a rich and remarkable football history that flows in our blood. But the game of football never really developed collegiate roots, which has been critical for all serious American sports. And during the Great Depression, it was a immigrant sport, played out with, you know, Greek teams in playing against Italian rooted teams, playing against, you know, Jewish rooted teams, j German rooted teams.

1 (18m 32s):
And during the Great Depression, those leagues just folded. And so the history of football in this nation, it's always been there, but it's one, been one of booms and bus of false dawns great prophecies. Everyone remembers Pele coming to these shores in the 1970s And it felt like soccer was like a Frisbee or a pogo stick or a yo-yo, just a great fad sweeping the nation. The roots were never deep enough. Our women's team, you know, went back to back. Wilcott has often been just a delirious dream team. But the, on the men's side, the side, you know, of which we've always dreamed of becoming world champions, we've often been far away. 1994, the World Cup was meant to put the sport over the top instead its growth has been slow and steady and remarkable.

1 (19m 19s):
Really soccer, the perfect sport for the internet age in the same way as the N f l bloomed in the golden age of television and baseball in the golden age of radio before that. So it's been, it all, I can say it's been a bloody long time.

0 (19m 34s):
You know, you mentioned Pele briefly, and of course Beckham showed up in the United States too at some point. Yes. Has this strategy of, of building American football around a star been the wrong approach? Or, or does messi's popularity and, and and sort of game changing arrival signify that it was the right approach, but maybe it needed to happen at the right time? Yeah,

1 (19m 58s):
I wasn't here for Pele, so it's hard for, I didn't witness it firsthand. I was for David Beckham, it was remarkable

12 (20m 5s):
Flashbulbs everywhere because the Beckham era has begun at last.

1 (20m 9s):
But these things just take time. you know, we're not just competing against the N F L and the N B A for bandwidth, but, you know, Americans love the best. They love the best. It's what they do. They love the dream team. Barkley

7 (20m 23s):
From Pitman,

1 (20m 24s):
They'll have Charles Barkley leaping up to dunk on a hapless ola, the poman in in the Olympics.

7 (20m 30s):
Straight points.

1 (20m 31s):
Del booing him in the side of the head as he dunks. When the US are already 50 points up, that's what we love.

7 (20m 38s):
Walk little contact after he makes the layup on the way back down the floor. Just a little elbow to send the message here. We love

1 (20m 46s):
The best. We, the biblical smiting and the best happens to take place in England in the Premier League, in the Champions League on the men's side in other nations. And it's, it's hard for us to realize that at this point in time, m l s is not the best. So what I'd say is all of it, it not a star can do nothing on their own. That's permanent. But a context is what's changed. The internet has connected Americans to, you know, Liverpool, to arsenal. They can follow along every single injury, every single rumor as closely as if they're at the same zip code that as fans who live and die by that team, the streaming, there's more football available to watch live in the United States now than if I lived in England.

1 (21m 35s):
So all of these things play their part. There is that deep convergence now, and it's, it's truly robust, it's magical. It's not a fad. A Messi coming is possibly the crown jewel, the most radiant light, the most powerful spotlight that the game could cost upon itself. And watching it these past couple of weeks has been, it's honestly, it's been something that I have to pinch myself as I watch Messi on our shores humiliating our defenders. I have to just pinch myself and say, oh my God, it really is real. And it's magnificent. It,

0 (22m 8s):
It sounds like you might buy into an argument that I see being made a lot online in, in group chats with my friends, which is that Messi's arrival to the United States is actually just embarrassing because it shows you how inferior the rest of m l s is. Do you feel that way?

1 (22m 25s):
I I think that argument is slightly bullocks if I'm allowed to say that on your beautiful podcast. you know, lion o Messi Yes is embarrassing. M l Ss defenders with his play Lion o Messi. Leno Messi is the greatest player of his generation. He's embarrassed defenders everywhere. He goes in Paris, Paris and Yourman. He humiliated defenders at Will when Leno Messi hit the, the goal record for an individual. Budweiser did an incredible campaign where they sent the goal number that Messi scored on the front of a beer can to the goalkeepers who had conceded that goal.

1 (23m 6s):
Some of them got crates of beer, some of 'em played Messi a a lot and conceded goals to him a lot. And all of them posted on their Instagram, these cans with pride. They weren't humiliated, they were honored to be humiliated by Leno Messi. And I'd almost look at it that way. And the most remarkable thing about it is that Leno Messi is now embarrassing people on our shores. Leno Messi is now Florida man that I can't get over. That's genuinely, that's the most remarkable part of all of this for me.

0 (23m 37s):
There's so much joy over his arrival in Miami. You can feel it online, you can feel it in the United States. I did some traveling this summer and I'm seeing, seeing Messi inter Miami jerseys in, in Europe. People are actually wearing American football jerseys. Yeah. In Western Europe. Is there anyone who isn't excited about this news or is everyone just stoked?

1 (23m 58s):
I imagine there's one person who's probably hating every single second of it and it's Christiano Ronaldo, who I imagine is like hat eating an extra almond and then doing a hundred angry chin-ups in a very tight pair of underpants while being fanned with a large feather by an assistant who's quaking in fear at wondering when there's temper temper tantrum will go away. It will never go away. 'cause Leno Messi, this is the most remarkable thing. The goals are unbelievable. What is it as we speak? 10 goals in seven games.

0 (24m 30s):
My word what?

18 (24m 31s):
A start for Lion o Messi in his major league soccer career.

1 (24m 36s):
Yes. Some of the goals are embarrassing defenders, embarrassing goalkeepers. Joseph Martinez

2 (24m 44s):
Sons.

1 (24m 44s):
Some of the goals are bloody leave all. There was a goal at the weekend. He was playing Nashville around Zimmerman. Five Nashville defenders tried to shut him down.

0 (24m 57s):
I saw it incredible. They could

1 (24m 58s):
Not have been closer to him if they were like genuine, if, if he was wearing them as clothing. And somehow he was able to find a crevice of space and work out. Honestly, genuinely, Oppenheimer would not been able to do this calculation in physics as quickly as Leno Messi did to work out the exact angle trajectory, wind, spreed, and fire the ball right into the corner. It was delicious. So some of the goals are utterly transcendent. But the thing that I love most of all, Sean, is how much Lionel. Messi is clearly loving all of this. This is a man who is a God that walks amongst us. We've seen footage of him walking around Argentina, surrounded by thousands of people, mobbing it immediately.

1 (25m 43s):
He's like public property. People feel they can grab him, they can kiss him. They can just violate the poor man. To watch football is to understand humanity, to understand how humans propel themselves and motivate themselves. Experience glory, experience failure, humiliation, tenacity, perseverance, collective empathy. All of these things are playing out in the greatest telenovela that's playing out live before your eyes. What can be better than that show.

0 (26m 14s):
Roger Bennett, he's got podcasts Search for Men in Blazers. He's also got a weekly show on YouTube all about Lionel. Called this Week in the Messi verse, Patti Mawajdeh produced Amina Aldi edited Serena, Solin FactCheck and Christian Ayala mixed. This episode of Today Explained.