1 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from who we are a Chronicle of racism in America. It's a new podcast by Ben and Jerry's and it's based on ACLU Deputy legal director, Jeffrey Robinson's acclaimed presentation of the same name. It breaks down the origins and ongoing impact of white supremacy on our elections Health Care economy more new episodes who we are are on Tuesdays you can listen And subscribe wherever you listen And subscribe to your podcasts. Support for the show tonight comes from it was said a new documentary podcast series directed and produced by c-13 original studios in association with history over 10 episodes.

1 (44s):
It was said explores and brings to life ten of the most iconic speeches in American history with deep Dives on powerful addresses from John Lewis Edward r-- Murrow, Barbara Jordan and more the series offers insight into culture. Doing historical moments. It was said wherever you listen last week in milhiser who covers the Supreme Court for Vox told me that President Trump would probably choose judge a me. Koni Barrett to replace Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the Supreme Court and over the weekend or judge a me koni Barrett.

1 (1m 27s):
That's exactly what happened in tell us who she is. Is sure so judge.

3 (1m 33s):
Barrett is a young and very conservative judge. She's only been a judge for about 3 years 3 years 3 years. Yeah. She was also a law professor for nearly two decades. And so she has a thick scholarly output and when we look at the stuff that you wrote it as a law professor that could Ferb's you know, I don't want to go quite so far as to say that you would be the opposite of Ruth Bader Ginsburg, but it's going to be a very sharp right turn on the Supreme Court. If she is confirmed hmm, there's been a lot of

1 (2m 3s):
focus on her religion. Why is that?

3 (2m 6s):
Oh boy. So this is a huge can of worms

1 (2m 12s):
judge ferret is Catholic if you're asking whether I take my faith seriously, and I'm a faithful Catholic. I am although I would stress that my personal Church affiliation or my religious belief would not bear on the discharge of my duties as a judge

3 (2m 27s):
and I want to be clear because if I am not absolutely clear about this The Twitter trolls will come at me for it. Hmm. There's nothing wrong with the fact that she is Catholic at as far as I know. No one objected to the fact that she is Catholic Joe Biden is a Catholic Sonia Sotomayor who was President Obama's first appointing Supreme Court is Catholic. Some of my favorite parents are Catholic right like there. There is no serious objection to Catholicism, but judge Barrett often expresses her political views in explicitly. Just terms, you know, there's one document where she endorsed the Catholic Church's conservative views on abortion on marriage on sexuality because she often expresses conservative political views in religious terms.

3 (3m 19s):
I think that some people particularly Senator Dianne Feinstein have not been careful enough in their rhetoric in the past in make it clear that they are objecting to her. Political views and not to her Catholic faith. What a DYFS I do. Oh boy.

1 (3m 37s):
This is so good. I just open up a can of worms in a can of worms that I mean, this is just I mean, this is

3 (3m 43s):
one of the worst examples of senatorial incompetence I have ever seen. So when judge Barrett was up for confirmation to her current job Dianne Feinstein Senator Feinstein, who's the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee was questioning

1 (3m 60s):
her. Is it that so many of us on this side have this very uncomfortable

3 (4m 8s):
feeling and in the course of the questioning Feinstein drew a distinction between the law and religious Dogma,

1 (4m 16s):
you know dogma and law are two different things.

3 (4m 20s):
And then she said to judge Barrett

1 (4m 22s):
the Dogma lives loudly within you

3 (4m 26s):
the Dogma lives loudly in

1 (4m 29s):
you that's of concern.

3 (4m 30s):
Oh, wow. Yeah, and so because of these very unfortunate words that Senator Feinstein use it made her into a kind of persecuted martyr in Christian right circles. The

1 (4m 45s):
left hypocrisy on her is so thick you could choke on it what Conservative Catholics saw as an attack on their faith soon became a rallying cry. You can now buy T-shirts that read the Dogma lives loudly. Me

3 (5m 1s):
there has been more editorials and op-eds than I can count attacking Feinstein for that presenting Barrett as someone who was unfairly persecuted and I suspect that this played a big role in why she's the Supreme Court nominee. Now,

1 (5m 18s):
there should be a straightforward and prompt confirmation should be very easy. Good luck. It's going to be very quick. I'm sure it'll be extremely non-controversial. We said that the last time didn't lie. I mean, is there anything in her three-year judicial record that suggests that her Catholic faith is an important part of her

3 (5m 47s):
jurisprudence. I mean the specific fear that a lot of liberal groups expressed about Judge Barrett was that she would allow her Catholic faith to override her obligation to the law and we have not seen that Secular fear born out there was a case involving buffer zones around abortion clinics and basically whether or not abortion protesters are allowed to harass people who are coming into the clinic and Barrett joined an opinion where you know, she did not say I'm a Catholic I object to abortion. Therefore. I'm going to strike this law down even though the Supreme Court has said I must have held it she joined an opinion that said basically this law is crap if it were up to me we'd Strike it down.

3 (6m 35s):
But the Supreme Court has said that this is good and we have to follow the Supreme Court. So what that opinion shows is it shows a very conservative judge? It shows a very anti-abortion judge, but it does not show a judge who like whenever the outcome in a case conflicts with what the Catholic Church teaches reflexively chooses what her religious beliefs would dictate. Okay fair.

1 (7m 2s):
Well beyond being

3 (7m 3s):
A quasi symbol of someone who was

1 (7m 7s):
persecuted for her religion why pick someone with

3 (7m 12s):
three years of experience on the bench to

1 (7m 16s):
replace Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who was this

3 (7m 19s):
wildly experienced litigator and law professor before becoming a judge for many many years on the DC court of appeals. Right? Right. I mean some of it I think is that Trump hopes to Gin up his face. Bye. By playing into this line that she was somehow persecuted because of her faith. Some of it is that you know, Trump's first two nominees were fairly early in his presidency. So we had to rely mostly on the people that George w-- Bush put on the federal bench in order to you know, come up with a list of nominees now, he has his own list. He has people that he's picked himself. And so I think that plays into it as well.

3 (7m 60s):
And the other thing I'll say is that in the case of Judge Barry Three years is not a long judicial record, but I think it's enough to get a pretty clear read on her. You know, she has two opinions where that she's joined which signals fairly clearly that she opposes abortion rights. She has a second amendment opinion where she'd assented to the right of two conservative Reagan appointees. She wrote a book review in 2017. That seems to suggest that she would have struck down the Affordable Care Act if she'd been on the court when Two cases seeking to undermine the Affordable Care Act were before it what record she has is enough to verify.

3 (8m 40s):
This is going to be a very very conservative Justice if she is

2 (8m 45s):
confirmed

1 (8m 52s):
the cases a Justice a me. Koni. Barrett's could very soon here on the Supreme Court after a

2 (8m 59s):
break.

1 (9m 19s):
Support for the show today comes from caviar. If you like me are in you know month six and Counting of not really leaving your house as much as you used to maybe you're getting tired of cooking the same six things over and over again and caviar can help by delivering you food other people have cooked whatever kind of food you're in the mood for caviar is got pizza Sushi Falafel. It's all available on the caviar app. With delivery from local restaurants you like so download the caviar app for yourself. Stay safe inside get the tasty food. You actually want to eat and right now for today explain listeners just for you.

1 (10m 0s):
All caviar is offering 20% off of your first order. All you have to do is enter the promo code today when you're checking out that is 20% off your first order with the promo code today. Download that caviar app and use that promo code on your first order and eat some food. You won't regret

2 (10m 25s):
it.

1 (10m 32s):
Consumers for safe CBD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products. They tested were mislabeled some of them contains more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed and nearly 20 products contained th see the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe. CBD is calling on the FDA to regulate the CBD Market to protect consumers from To harms posed by untested products though. The FDA has issued warnings. This is not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat a wide range of serious medical conditions.

1 (11m 16s):
Remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for safe. CBD dot-org. That's the number four. or sa Fe CBD Dot o-- r-- g-- I love the United States and I love the United States Constitution. I am truly I'm truly humbled by the prospect of serving on the Supreme Court and how

3 (11m 59s):
soon could any coneybear be on the Supreme Court Republicans been talking as soon as October 29 for confirmation? And what's important about that October 29 date is that would be a few days before the

1 (12m 13s):
election. I think this will end up in the Supreme Court and I think it's very important that we have nine

3 (12m 19s):
justices several Republicans including Trump have been very clear that they want Barrett on the court in time for any election-related disputes, which I think is raised, you know, very real fears that they want her on the port because they think that if there's a contested election She will throw the

1 (12m 39s):
election to Trump. But just in case it would be more political than it should be. I think it's very important to have a ninth chest and when the Supreme Court start hearing cases again. So the new

3 (12m 53s):
term begins October 5th on the first Monday of October.

1 (12m 57s):
So really really super

3 (12m 59s):
really suit. Yeah the courts going to be back very soon.

1 (13m 2s):
Well before we go to the election, let's talk about the cases Justice. Amy coneybear it would hear in In her first term on the court, so there's two

3 (13m 11s):
cases I think are worth highlighting. I'm one is the latest attack on Obama Care

1 (13m 18s):
the US Supreme Court will take up a legal challenge to the Affordable Care Act. The issue at hand is regarding the constitutionality of this laws individual

3 (13m 26s):
mandate. This is the third time that Republican lawyers have been in the Supreme Court trying to get the Supreme Court to demolish the Affordable Care Act. That is the stupidest legal argument I have Merci, I know it's awful. So like essentially they argue that when Congress reduced the penalty for not having health insurance to zero dollars. They effectively eliminated the individual mandate that what Congress secretly did when it repealed just the individual mandate is it actually repealed the entire Affordable Care Act? And so now the Supreme Court has to go in and like real Eli's this secret thing as happened at dismantle the whole law.

3 (14m 11s):
I mean I could go into more detail. But if I spent an hour explaining their legal Theory to you, it would just sound stupid or it it really dumb and so, you know the hope is that even someone like Amy coneybear at who's very very conservative with look at this and say, oh hell no, that's too dumb. But three Republican judges have already largely signed on to this legal Theory, you know in order. Obamacare survive Democrats have to pick up not just chief justice Roberts who I think was likely to do so, but one other Republican and I think there's a real question as to whether there is a second Republican vote who will say, you know, this is too partisan.

3 (14m 54s):
This is too silly This legal argument is too stupid. You know, I think that there is going to be a Temptation here to put their politics before the law. So on obamacare's third go in front of the Supreme Court, Art, it could potentially die. Yes, and that would be a doozy. That would I mean the number that gets thrown around a lot is 20 million people would lose their health care, but that 20 million figures from before the pandemic and before millions of people lost their jobs and with it their employer provided insurance. So I don't know what the number is now but it could be 25 or 30 million when you account for all of these people, who are Now depending on Obamacare because they no longer have a job that they can use to get employer-provided insurance.

3 (15m 51s):
Well, it's hard to think of anything that could be more consequential than that. But what else is on the docket for the Supreme Court in this fall term. So the second case that I'm keeping a very close eye on is this case called Fulton Fulton involves this issue that keeps coming up about whether or not people with religious objections to LGBT people are allowed to discriminate against them when the law says that they aren't hmm then they just here.

1 (16m 19s):
It's like this in the last term

3 (16m 22s):
in 2017. They heard a case called Masterpiece cake shop that involved a baker who didn't want to provide a wedding cake to a same-sex couple.

1 (16m 31s):
There are other cakes. I know you don't create on religious grounds such as I don't create cakes for Halloween. I wouldn't create a cake that would be anti-American or disparaging against anybody for any reason even cakes. It would just disparage people who identify as LGBT. Just Cakes have a message and this is one that I can't create

3 (16m 54s):
but that case kind of was resolved without much of an answer, you know, they the baker one but on extraordinarily narrow grounds and the broader question of whether people of faith can ignore civil rights laws is still open and last term there was a case called

1 (17m 13s):
Bostock the Supreme Court ruled the 1964 federal civil rights act protects employees from being fired. For being gay or transgender

3 (17m 21s):
pause talked in a deal with the religion issue at all. Boz talk dealt with whether or not a current wall Banning employment discrimination specifically bans discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. The Supreme Court said, yes, it does. So in theory, it's illegal to fire someone because they're gay or thereby or they're Trans in practice. However, if the Supreme Court says that rule Legion is a license to disobey an anti-discrimination law Bostock might not wind up meaning very much in the long run.

1 (17m 57s):
Okay, and how might the precedent set by those two cases play into this third one. So this third

3 (18m 2s):
case Fulton is unusual. I'm actually a bit surprised at the Supreme Court took this case. And the reason why is all of these past cases like masterpiece cake shop dealt with a private business owner and the private business owner wanted to be able to discriminate. In the sphere of his own property within the sphere of his own business Fulton involves a government contractor the city of Philadelphia contracts out certain Services dealing with foster children to private entities including in this case Catholic Social Services and Catholic Social Services says that it wants to be able to discriminate against same-sex couples when it's providing these foster services for the government.

3 (18m 49s):
It would be really extraordinary if the Supreme Court were to say that the government is not allowed to say that it won't discriminate and it's not allowed to order its employees and its contractors not to discriminate you might remember the Kim Davis case a while back where there was a local clerk who refused to provide marriage licenses to same-sex

1 (19m 14s):
couples to a six-month name or sort of title with a certificate that debt that authorizes marriage. Second place was God's definition of marriage as a union between one man and one woman violates my deeply held religious convictions and conscience.

3 (19m 29s):
And so if Fulton says that government contractors have a religious right to discriminate The Next Step would be they could say that government employees have religious right to discriminate and it would really just be extraordinary. You know, again, it's one thing to say that private business owners can operate their own business according to to their religious beliefs. It's another thing altogether to say that a religious organization can effectively Force the government to operate according to the religious beliefs of that private organization. Hmm. Okay. So Fulton

1 (20m 7s):
Obamacare huge cases coming up on this fall docket and then of course,

3 (20m 13s):
there's the election which right you alluded to

1 (20m 16s):
how might

3 (20m 18s):
the confirmation of Justice a me koni

1 (20m 21s):
Barrett have an effect on this election. So the short

3 (20m 25s):
answer is we don't know, you know, the question is whether we're going to be in a bush V Gore situation where you have five justices who just think they would rather have the Republican in the white house or whether she's capable of saying look if we do this like there could be civil unrest and it could lead to an illegitimate see crisis or Worse. We do not want that. Mmm,

1 (20m 50s):
and I'm sure the Supreme Court is hoping to not have to decide this election. And I'm also sure much of the country would prefer the Supreme Court not decide this election, but barring that I mean, what does Amy coneybear its potential confirmations and Supreme

3 (21m 7s):
Court mean

1 (21m 8s):
for the for the next

3 (21m 9s):
generation of this bench barring Court packing unless Democrats win such an enormous victory in November that they have the votes to add additional. Seats to the Supreme Court and fill them with Democrats any coneybear, it's going to Emma. She's 48 years old. So she's going to be with us for 30 40. You know, many many years to

2 (21m 31s):
come.

3 (21m 35s):
This is the culmination of a project that is gone on probably for the last several decades to entrench minority role in this country and you know, and here's what I mean by this Donald. Lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes Republicans control the majority in the Senate, but the Republican majority actually represents 15 million fewer people than the Democratic minority. It's only because the Senate is so malapportioned that Republicans control a majority the first Supreme Court Justice in American history to be nominated by a president who lost the popular vote.

3 (22m 16s):
I confirmed by a block of senators that represent less than half the country Tree was Trump's first appointee Neil Gorsuch. The second was his second appointee Brett Kavanaugh. And the third is likely to be a me. Koni Barrett.

1 (22m 29s):
I fully understand that. This is a momentous decision for a president. And if the Senate does me the honor of confirming me, I pledge to discharge the responsibilities of this job to the very best of my ability. So this has never happened before Donald Trump.

3 (22m 46s):
We're now likely to have a third of the Supreme Court. Controlled by justices who have no Democratic legitimacy, and that's I think very frightening, you know, most Americans think that they live in a democracy but because of the pathology of how we pick our presidents how we pick our Senators and ultimately how we pick our judges. It means that a body that lacks Democratic legitimacy is going to be striking down laws potentially for the next 30 or 40 years.

1 (23m 34s):
Ian milhiser covers the Supreme Court for Vox you can find all of his writing at vox.com. I'm Shawn Rama's firm. This is today

2 (23m 43s):
explained.

1 (24m 8s):
Consumers for safe CBD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products. They tested were mislabeled some of them contains more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed and nearly 20 products contained th see the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe. CBD is calling on the FDA to regulate the CBD Market to protect consumers from To harms posed by untested products though. The FDA has issued warnings. This is not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat a wide range of serious medical conditions.

1 (24m 52s):
Remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for safe. CBD dot-org. That's the number four. Or sa Fe CBD dot o-- r-- g-- this year teachers are learning new ways to teach parents are learning to lesson plan and young minds are learning a new normal this year. We are all students at Verizon. We're enabling the education that students deserve with credentialed teacher training free lesson plans for parents and Tech enabled solutions for schools Nationwide, its citizen Verizon in action our plan for economic.

1 (25m 38s):
MC environmental and social advancements