1 (1s):
Verizon just turned on 5D across the country with the coverage of 5D Nationwide and in more and more cities the unprecedented performance of ultra-wideband the fastest 5G in the world ultra-wideband is so fast. You can download an album in seconds Rising 5G won't just change how your phone works. It will change how businesses do everything. This is the 5 G America's been waiting for only from Verizon by G ultra-wideband. We'll only in parts of Select cities 5G Nationwide available in 1800 plus cities Global claim based on open signal independent analysis During the period January 31st through April 30th, 2020

2 (41s):
support for the show today comes from fiasco a contested election and extraordinary legal battle. No, I'm not talking about what's ahead in November? I'm talking about what's behind in Bush V Gore Circa the year 2000. Yes. This has happened before with the 20 election upon us the stakes couldn't be higher and the outcome may not be clear until long after everyone has voted but TBT Bush V Gore the year 2000 the podcast Fiasco. It's all about it. Find it wherever you listen.

2 (1m 30s):
In milhiser you cover the Supreme Court for Vox. We are on day 3 of Judge a me. Koni Barrett's confirmation hearings. What have we learned? So the short answer is not much nominees in their Supreme Court hearings are often very evasive. But Barrett has been unusually evasive, you know, she would not commit to saying that there has to be a peaceful transfer of power by one put I believe as senator. Oh Bashar read to her a statute saying it's illegal to intimidate voters as she wouldn't say that it's illegal to

1 (2m 3s):
intimidate voters Senator Klobuchar. I can't characterize the facts and a hypothetical situation and I can't apply the law to a hypothetical set of facts. I can only use work very hard not to

2 (2m 15s):
answer questions. That being said. This is a nominee with the pretty clear record. She is a so-called original list which at least in its modern form. Is a theory that is used to implement a very aggressive conservative jurisprudence. She is very outspoken in her opposition to Roe v-- Wade. She's criticized. Both of the Supreme Court's past decisions. Largely upholding the Affordable Care Act. So we know that this is a very conservative nominee and we have a pretty good idea of what at least a few things are that she's likely to do right away. Well, I want to get to the originalism but let's start with the invasive nature of these.

2 (2m 55s):
Earrings is this really something exceptional that we haven't seen before with Kavanaugh or Gorsuch or Kagan or Sotomayor. So, I mean, I think that Barrett is has been unusually evasive but Supreme Court nomination hearings have been moving this direction of sucking all the information out of the room for very long time. It really goes back to the Robert Bork Hearing in the 1980s for It was a Reagan nominee to the Supreme

1 (3m 27s):
Court back today announced my intention to nominate United States court of appeals. Judge Robert H bork to be an associate Justice of the Supreme

2 (3m 36s):
Court at to his credit. He was very honest about his

1 (3m 40s):
belief when I was when I do. Unfortunately, I suppose. Is take Supreme Court opinions but seemed to me unsatisfactory as matters of constitutional reasoning and criticize

2 (3m 53s):
them. It was very open about the fact that he believed that it was wrong. Not just for the Supreme Court to protect abortion but to protect the right to contraception,

1 (4m 2s):
I think the law was an utterly silly

2 (4m 4s):
law. Um, you know, he was very honest about the fact that he wanted to sweep away a bunch of voting rights victories including the one person one vote. Doctrine which says that you can't have one congressional district with five people and one with a million people and he did not get confirmed after being so honest and what I think every nominee since then has learned is that being honest is not a good way to get the

1 (4m 31s):
job role call number 348 to nomination of Robert H bork. The yeas are 42. The Nays are 58. The nomination is not confirmed.

2 (4m 44s):
Right, but we do know a bit about her from her past as a judge in the last time. We spoke to you we talked about abortion the Affordable Care Act and the election which as I understand are still three issues that at least Democrats are trying to get some clarification from Amy coneybear at on has that worked at all thus far so, I mean, there's a weird bit of Kabuki theater to these nomination fight. Swear, especially when there's a Can nominee the Democratic senators will try to trick the nominee and to saying I will overrule Roe v-- Wade and the nominee is never tricked into saying that they will overrule Roe v-- Wade, but like we know that she's going to overrule Roe v-- Wade, she has signed a bunch of petitions and sign on letters where she pledged to oppose abortion.

2 (5m 33s):
There's one where she referred to Roe v-- Wade as an Infamous decision. So there isn't a mystery here that needs to be solved. She just isn't saying it during her hearing. Hmm. What will that actually mean for people if roe v-- Wade is overturned. There's a question about how the Supreme Court will go after row. They may not actually write the words Roe v-- Wade is overruled the court may just allow laws that make it functionally impossible to get an abortion without ever saying that row is gone. There's also a question if roe v-- Wade is struck down the next possible her.

2 (6m 13s):
Horizon for anti-abortion Advocates is something called fetal personhood and Fetal personhood would essentially be the opposite of Ruby wait. So Roe v-- Wade says that the constitution protects the right to an Abortion fetal personhood is the idea that there is a constitutional right, I guess of the fetus to not be aborted. And so if this Theory were to take hold it would mean that abortion would become illegal throughout. All 50 states. We should note that in a lot of States. It's already pretty darn hard to get an abortion. Yeah. Yeah, I mean that the Supreme Court while it hasn't had five votes until probably very recently to outright overrule Roe v-- Wade, the court has been very aggressive in allowing laws that make it hard to get an abortion to stay at they can force abortion providers to read an anti-abortion script.

2 (7m 11s):
They can put certain regulations. Ins on clinics and we're likely to see much more of this. So like the last big fight over abortion rights was whether states can enact laws that make it so expensive to operate an abortion clinic that it's functionally impossible to do so, and so that's one way that the Supreme Court could get rid of the abortion right without overruling Roe v-- Wade, they can say Roe v-- Wade is nominally in place. But if a state wants to pass a law saying that all abortion clinics have to be Old out of solid gold they can do that.

1 (7m 46s):
Do you know how many Americans have obtained insurance through the Affordable Care Act? I do not.

2 (7m 54s):
Let's talk about the Affordable Care Act for a second. I saw part of the hearing on Tuesday where Senator Leahy was cluing a me koni Barrett into how many people could stand to lose health care if the Affordable Care Act is struck down

1 (8m 9s):
because more than 20 million and do you know how many children under the age of 26 he would have stay on their parent's insurance because of the Affordable Care Act I do

2 (8m 22s):
not and Amy coneybear. It seemed to not know how many people had their Healthcare on the line. Do we learn anything about her feelings on the ACA? So Barrett hasn't been particularly forthcoming in this hearing about her views on Obamacare, but she wrote a book review in 2017 where she said that nfib the first decision that largely upheld the Affordable Care Act and King V Burwell the second decision which preserve the Portable Care Act after a partisan attack rested on a you know, what she thought was a very stretched and like difficult to defend reading of the law.

2 (9m 3s):
So she's been fairly clear that she thinks that the past Court decisions allowing Obamacare to continue to thrive were wrongly decided that said there is a case in front of the Supreme Court right now, which rest on an unusually weak legal argument. That seeks to strike down the Affordable Care Act and in the short term. I don't know if Barrett or anyone else is going to sign on to the argument in this case because it is just so bad. But the fact that the court might not strike down Obamacare this time around does it mean that they can't take up another case and use that as a vehicle to strike the wall down and the election.

2 (9m 47s):
Yeah. Oh man. So the one question It kept coming up about the election is of course, Donald Trump hasn't committed to a peaceful transfer of power as her some Senators

1 (9m 59s):
asked. Do you believe that every President should make a commitment unequivocally in resolutely to the peaceful transfer of power

2 (10m 8s):
and she wouldn't say yes. I mean, she didn't say no, but you know, she wouldn't answer even

1 (10m 14s):
that question. Well senator That seems to me to be pulling me in a little bit into this question of whether the president has said that he would not peacefully leave office. And so to the extent that this is a political controversy right now as a judge. I want to stay out of it and I don't want to express a view.

2 (10m 37s):
I think there's one plausible reason she's not answering it is that Donald Trump is vindictive and he you know, he reacted in Anger when Jeff sessions his previous attorney general recused from the Russian investigation. So he has a tendency to lash out at people and so maybe Barrett did it answer the question because she fears that if she commits to a peaceful transfer of power Donald Trump will with withdrawal her nomination. I don't know why she wouldn't answer the question but I be the most basic. So you could possibly ask about voting rights, you know, if the voters elect Joe Biden president can we have him become president without a civil war?

2 (11m 20s):
She wouldn't even commit to that question. I saw a lot of people making a big deal of the fact that she just has a notepad with zero notes on it in front of her, but I kind of wondered if that was a big deal considering she isn't really saying much. Well, look. She's a really smart woman. She is thought a lot about the Constitution. She's thought a lot about her originalist philosophy and if confirmed is likely to use her originalist theories to implement and extraordinarily conservative agenda. More with Amy and Ian in a minute.

2 (12m 17s):
Support for the show today comes from all birds. We've got the pandemic. We've got the politics. We've got the climate crisis and you know, we can take the joy wherever we can find it these days and maybe you'll find some in a new pair of all birds, especially if those all birds happen to be the Holy Grail of old-school lace-ups, except actually comfortable and made of Premium. Natural materials I'm talking about the new wool Piper's from all birds, which are there Twist on the classic Lace Up sneakers. They give you that vintage inspired. Look that's always cool except instead of the OG design with leather uppers and petroleum-based souls.

2 (13m 1s):
The wool Piper's are made with certified Merino wool and sugarcane based foam. All words is committed to two things making great looking shoes that feel awesome and leaving the planet. In better shape than they found it check out all birds right now at all birds.com today and feel confident knowing you're wearing a product that's doing right by your feet and the planet.

1 (13m 30s):
This is Advertiser content. What's your favorite song this

2 (13m 34s):
week? Hi, I'm Isaac Kaplan Wilner a music obsessed producer for Vox creative. I know that I love music deeply but I'm not exactly sure why so with the help of Amazon music HD. I tried to find out

1 (13m 48s):
music feels like you're entering a different realm and that's that's around Beyond you.

2 (13m 55s):
That's Jessica Dobson guitarist and lead singer of Seattle band deep sea diver and it matters to me

1 (14m 1s):
because I know that it

2 (14m 3s):
affects people in ways that I couldn't imagine

1 (14m 6s):
there are places in our hearts that other things can't access and I know that music can do that. Music can reliably put us into a mood On a par with certain Drugs That's neuro scientist and musician Daniel J. Levitin author of this is your brain on music fast music tends to Goose the adrenaline system slow music tends to do the opposite happy music can release dopamine and serotonin. We can see distinct neurochemical changes in response to different kinds of music. So music isn't just something we love It's a central part of who we are and it can help us feel better and do better in our daily lives.

1 (14m 53s):
Step up to uncompressed Pure music that allows us to hear and feel more with Amazon music HD start your 90 day free trial and hear the difference today at amazon.com music HD news automatically new subscribers only limited time offer terms apply.

2 (15m 16s):
And you went to law school for all the people who didn't what is originalism. So the definition of originalism is that you believe that the meaning of the Constitution's words it's fixed and that judges are bound by those words. And if you just provide someone with the definition, it sounds obvious. I mean what of course judges have to be bound by the words of the Constitution the problem with the original is and Several problems with the rituals of one is that the constitution is really vague, you know, it refers to the Privileges or immunities of citizenship doesn't tell us what they are. It says that there cannot be unreasonable searches and seizures.

2 (15m 59s):
Do you know what it means to be unreasonable because it's not really clear in the document, you know, it uses the word Liberty. It doesn't Define the word Liberty. So like the Constitution uses words, but not just constitutional Scholars, but philosophers have been debating the Meaning of for almost as long as those words of existed and the idea that a judge could simply say, well, I'm only following the words of this very vague text is a bit of a Dodge because ultimately there has to be a bit of personal judgment brought to the table. If you are interpreting a word like Liberty. I know a lot of people associate originalism with Justice Antonin Scalia, but Is he the OG originalist?

2 (16m 45s):
How did this thing come about? How does it has it sort of developed as a legal theory originalism is a theory that I think tends to arise in reaction to Legal developments that someone disagrees with Some last century there have been what I would strive is three great ways of really originalism. The first was actually a liberal way. It was spearheaded by a man named Hugo Black who was a Roosevelt appointing Supreme

1 (17m 15s):
Court obscenity is wholly ambiguous. It means one thing to you. And another thing to you and nothing to these nothing to me. I've always detested it but that's no reason. I think there is not speech on an important subject liberals can be Was stew aw. Yes. I mean again originalism generally manifests not

2 (17m 40s):
as a way of implementing

1 (17m 42s):
conservative policies, but of a way of wiping

2 (17m 45s):
out past decisions that an originalist doesn't

1 (17m 48s):
like black

2 (17m 50s):
objected to some early 20th century decisions that made it very very difficult for the government to regulate the economy in the

1 (17m 57s):
world place

2 (17m 59s):
a tea couldn't just because judges aren't allowed to say well I disagree with that past presidents. So I'm going to get rid of it. He had to come up with a reason to get rid of it and originalism allows a judge to wrap themselves in the legitimacy that comes from the Constitution's text and the framers and say look, you know James Madison beats your prior oppressive and so black joins the court after a 40-year period where conservatives were just running Buck while you know served as on the Supreme Court. We're striking down child labor laws. They Were Striking down minimum wage laws, they were strike down the right to

1 (18m 37s):
unionize and black wanted to get rid of all

2 (18m 39s):
of that he had to come up with a good reason to get rid of these precedents at so what he could do is he could wrap them self and legitimacy that comes from the framers and from the Constitution stacks and say my original history beats your bad press so what's wave to what's the second wave. So the second way wave was led by men like scalia's

1 (19m 5s):
where I have been in Scalia do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States and this

2 (19m 14s):
was a reaction to the liberal Warren court. So just as Justice black disagreed with Services running Buck Wild in the early 20th century Justice Scalia disagreed with liberal decisions that were handed down in the 50s and the 60s and to a lesser extent the 70s right after chief. That is worn step

1 (19m 34s):
down and that I will well and Faithfully discharge the duties of the office the duties of the

2 (19m 39s):
office Scalia wanted to get rid of decisions. Like Roe v--

1 (19m 41s):
Wade, my view is regardless of whether you think prohibiting abortion is good or whether you think prohibiting abortion is bad regardless of how you come out on that. My only point is the Constitution does not say anything about

2 (19m 56s):
it, but the kinds of arguments that he used were very similar to the argument that black was using he would wrap. Himself in the framers. He would wrap himself in the Constitution's tax and original history and say this history like my obedience to the text Trump's these past precedents that I disagree with huh? And the third wave is the third wave everything that Scalia influenced the third wave likes to cite scalia's inspiration, but I think the third wave is something much more frightening than what's come before it. So conservatives have controlled the Supreme Court for a very long time. And one thing that happens when you control the Judiciary for a really long time is you become really comfortable with judicial power while Scalia articulated a theory of judicial restraint to get courts to do less.

2 (20m 48s):
The preeminent originalist right now is Justice Clarence Thomas

1 (20m 52s):
Justice Clarence Thomas. He has asked a question during oral arguments in a case. That doesn't sound funny. The man has not asked a question in 10 years Justice Marshall rarely ask questions. Justice Powell rarely ask questions. That's a personal preference. I certainly wouldn't do it to provide histrionics for the media gallery or for other people or for critics critics will always be critics

2 (21m 16s):
Justice Clarence. Thomas would bring back the doctrines that were used to strike down child labor. It's not entirely clear that the ban on whites. Only lunch counters is constitutional under Justice Thomas's theory of the Constitution, huh? So the third wave of Less than what a lot of Scholars refer to the new originalism is about wiping away much of the 20th century another prominent member of the third wave of regionalism is just as Neil

1 (21m 44s):
Gorsuch the first time the Supreme Court of the United States really departed from the original meaning of the Constitution was perhaps in Dred Scott when the court found a right for white person's to own black person's as slaves in the territories of the United States scour the document as long as you want, you will not find that right there. They made it up or take the Sixth Amendment which guarantees you a right to confront your accusers, in any case against you for years. The Supreme Court of the United States said no, we're not going to enforce that right except for when we think it's really important. The regionalism says no to both of those

2 (22m 20s):
things Gorsuch has big project is he wants to eliminate much of the administrative state? So the EPA has a great deal of power to make sure that we have clean air and clean water. The labor department has a lot of power to make sure that people are paid Fair wages. The Department of Health and Human Services has a lot of power to make sure that insurance companies are providing us with a certain Baseline of coverage and gorgeous. She wants to strip away a lot of that power. So again Thomas and Gorsuch aren't operating under the theory of judicial restraint. They're operating under a theory of wanting the courts do more and more and more to implement a conservative agenda at the strip the federal government of much of its power to operate.

2 (23m 8s):
I've heard Gorsuch referred to as a textualist, maybe even by you on this show. How does originalism gel with textualism. And is that an important? Indifference if anything I would say that originalism is a flavor of textualism. So textualism is the idea that when you're dealing with a legal text the text of the Constitution can or the text of the document controls. And again, that's one of those theories that like sounds deceptively simple, but in practices can be very difficult to implement originalism again is the idea that when you're interpreting the Constitution the Constitution Tushin has a fixed meaning in judges are bound by it.

2 (23m 51s):
So originalism and textualism are at the very least close cousins. And where does Amy Cohn iberic fall into these three waves of originalism.

1 (24m 2s):
I interpret the Constitution as a law that I interpret its text is text and I understand it to have the meeting that it had at the time people ratified it so that meeting doesn't change over time and it's not up to me to update it or Infuse my own policy of these into it Barrett

2 (24m 21s):
has written about originalism at a very high level of generality. One thing that I find very frustrating about her scholarship is with a few exceptions mean again, she's been very clear that she opposes abortion. She's been very clear that she thinks that the Obamacare cases were wrongly decided but she doesn't really get into the Weeds about what sort of changes she would make under her originalist philosophy. You know, we don't know if she agrees with Justice Thomas that Child labor laws should be struck down for example, but you know, she grew up in the era where third wave originalism was ascendant amongst conservatives. She uses very similar rhetoric to what I hear from other third wave original list.

2 (25m 4s):
And so I think it's a safe bet that if she joins the Supreme Court, you know, there might be some nuances just as Justice Thomas And Justice Gorsuch don't agree on everything. It's likely that Barrett won't agree with those two men on everything as Well, but I think that she's going to take a very similar approach and we're going to see her like Thomas and Gorsuch trying to sweep away much of the government's ability to function and her confirmation to that Supreme Court is all but sure do we know when it's going to happen? Yeah, I mean barring a miracle or like, you know, maybe six Republican Senators will be lost at sea.

2 (25m 44s):
She's getting confirmed.

1 (25m 46s):
This is probably not about persuading each other unless Really dramatic happens all Republicans will vote Yes, and all Democrats will vote. No and that will be the way the breakout of the vote. The Senate is

2 (26m 0s):
operating under a very rushed schedule to get her confirmed. I mean, I think Lindsey Graham has announced the first markup on the Barrett confirmation in the committee will take place on Thursday. I think she's likely to be confirmed by the end of this month just in time to weigh in on an election. None of which she won't commit to a peaceful transfer of power. Yep. That's right.

1 (26m 24s):
Everything is Awesome right now the immobilizer he writes about the Supreme Court of box.com where you can find our latest coverage of Judge Amy coneybear its confirmation hearings in also just rats up hosting the miniseries on voting rights. For the weaves podcast it's called fide. The people each episode looks at a different obstacle facing voters and the coming election from voter suppression to the Constitution to the Supreme Court itself. And while we're on the Supreme Court on Tuesday in a seven to one decision Justice Sotomayor dissented the court approved of the Trump administration's effort to end the national headcount early.

1 (27m 14s):
That means at least for now this thing ends, October 15th. At 11:59 p.m. Hawaii time. So if you're like a last-minute person that last-minute is soon approaching. I'm Sean Rama's firm. It's today explain. I'm Julia for line and I'm the host of a new series called go For Broke.

1 (27m 54s):
It's about those moments in history. When everyone goes a little bit overboard for a big idea in our first season. We're going back in time to the late 90s. It's a time when computers are coming into every home. And.com companies are popping up everywhere. Everybody. Wanted to stick.com on the end of something cup.com glasses.com, you know shoes.com pet. Dot-com and as the frenzy grows and grows all of a sudden the.com economy falls off a

2 (28m 23s):
cliff people lost their houses people got their cars recalled. They literally Bank their Futures on

1 (28m 30s):
it. This season will explore what made the.com bubble and what could warn us when the next one comes along if we're not in one already go For Broke from epic and the VOX media podcast Network subscribe for free on Apple. podcasts or your favorite podcast app