1 (2s):
Leaders and representatives from nearly 200 countries have been gathering in Egypt for COP 27. It's the United Nations Annual Climate Change Conference.

2 (10s):
Many people feel COP 27 is the world's best hope for climate action, but many critics say it's just greenwashing with little to really actually show for

3 (21s):
Do we want it now, what

1 (24s):
Do we want? They're trying to figure out emission standards. They're trying to figure out who should pay for global warming. They're talking about food scarcity, and we all know what happens if they don't make progress. Doomsday isn't coming next week, but it's out there. It's waiting for us. In the meantime, there's a Doomsday glacier the size of Florida that's hanging on by its fingernails. And when it breaks apart, sea levels are gonna jump.

4 (47s):
If there's one piece of ice in the world that our modern world is dependent upon staying stable, it's that one.

1 (55s):
The Doomsday Glacier is coming on today. Explained

5 (59s):
The critically acclaimed FX show. Atlanta comes to a close this week. It became known for challenging viewers expectations, if not downright provoking those viewers repeatedly.

6 (1m 11s):
The thing I've realized from doing four seasons of Atlanta stuff I think is funny. Some people might be like, that's terrifying or that's very sad.

5 (1m 21s):
Why Atlanta actually meant to piss you off. This week on Into it Vulture's Pop Culture podcast.

4 (1m 38s):
My name is Jeff Goodell. I am a contributing editor at Rolling Stone Magazine and the author of a number of books about climate change. Most recently, the water will come, rising sea sinking cities and the remaking of the civilized world.

1 (1m 53s):
We reached out to Jeff because he's seen the Doomsday Glacier with his own eyes.

4 (1m 57s):
You know, this whole trip was very dramatic and long and planning. We left Punta Arenas at the bottom of South America in in Chile in January, which was the summer down there, and we sailed in this 304 foot long icebreaker ship with about 60 people on board. It felt like a kind of very historic journey because it was, we went through the straight of Magellan and then out into Drake passage.

7 (2m 29s):
Ever since I left the city,

4 (2m 31s):
Which is well known by sailors as the roughest season in the world, we had pretty scary swells for me. It was like 20 foot swells and the ship was rocking and furniture was flying and people were getting seasick and things. I was okay. And then it took us about 10 days, maybe two weeks, to reach Earthquakes Glacier, which is on the western coast of Antarctica. It's about halfway down the coast of Antarctica. It's a very remote place. In fact, we were the first people actually who have ever were able to approach it from the sea because of the sea ice. And the conditions are very difficult to be lucky enough to, to get close to it.

4 (3m 16s):
One morning at about 6:00 AM there was a bunch of commotion on the ship and everybody jumped outta their bunks and ran up to the deck of the ship and, and there it was, this 150 foot high sheet of ice just sort of looming next to us. It was at once incredibly beautiful, incredibly surreal and terrifying all at once. Just the sort of remoteness of it, the beauty of it, the silence of it, and the feeling that the fate of the world, many cities in the world depend upon how this glacier behaves and how this glacier moves.

1 (3m 57s):
What makes this particular glacier so important?

4 (4m 1s):
I mean, the weights is, is really important for two reasons. One is that, you know, for a long time scientists have been obviously have understood that as the world heats up ice melts. And that's been an obvious concern about climate change for a very long time. But a lot of the attention has been focused on Greenland and on mountain glaciers

8 (4m 22s):
TimeLapse video of a glacier in Greenland, moving and calving new icebergs into the sea. A new study based on warming that's already occurred paints a dire picture that melting ice from Greenland alone will cause sea levels to rise at least 27 centimeters, almost one foot over the next century.

4 (4m 40s):
And for a long time, scientists believed that Antarctica was pretty stable. You didn't see a lot of change in the ice melt there. You didn't see the kind of collapsing off the coast that you see in Greenland. But then scientists realized that no Antarctica is, is not stable. And the center of the instability in Antarctica is in West Antarctica. And it's particularly a glacier called the weights glacier, which is unstable in a particular way because of the way that warm water can get underneath it. And the, the thing that makes it so scary and so important in our picture of what's happening to our world is that this one glacier works like a kind of cork in the wine bottle of all of the West End Arctic ice sheet.

4 (5m 27s):
And because of the contours of the ground and things underneath the ice, what scientists fears happens is, is if this one glacier goes, then it basically is like opens the door for the rest of the West end Arctic ice sheet, which is an enormous ice sheet, which if it fell into and melted into the Southern ocean, it would raise sea levels around the world. About 10 feet, 10 feet of sea level rise is catastrophic for virtually every coastal city in the world. And so that's why thewas is important. If there's one piece of ice in the world that our modern world is dependent upon staying stable, it's that one, it's crumbling and collapsing.

4 (6m 18s):
We saw that while we were there. The question is, you know, how unstable and how quickly this ice sheet could collapse. And I think it's important to explain that the difference between how people think about ice melting, which is like a Popsicle sort of on a picnic table on a hot summer day, which is basically what's happening in the Arctic in Greenland. But what's happening in Thys glacier in Antarctica is, is entirely different. The surface is not melting. You don't go to Thys Glacier and see water running off the surfaces you do in Greenland, and I've been to Greenland a number of times and seen this. What's happening, inwes is the, the changes in the warmth of the southern ocean are basically melting the glacier from below.

4 (7m 2s):
And because of the way the glacier is set on a kind of reverse slope, it means that warm water is sort of flowing down deep under the glacier. The concern is that this glacier is not going to melt in the conventional way, but because it's being destabilized from below, it's going to kind of collapse and collapse. Sort of like imagine taking a tray full of ice cubes and just sort of dumping them out, huh? It's something like that.

1 (7m 30s):
Do we have any idea how long until that the weights glacier collapses?

4 (7m 36s):
You know, that's the subject of, you know, much debate in the science community about this. It's certainly not going to happen next year or in 10 years, but whether it can happen in 20 or 30 years, 40 years, 50 years, no one is certain. No one knows exactly what the time scale is. As one scientist I talked to about it said, there's no human analog for this. We, we've never watched a giant glacier like weights collapse in real time before, so we don't really know how fast it can go.

1 (8m 13s):
Hmm. But it's happening faster than people previously thought.

4 (8m 17s):
Yes, people thought it was very stable before and now we know that it's not very stable. And, and you know, again, what the issue here is, unlike Greenland, which is more or less a kind of gradual melt, there's not a lot of surprises. Scientists fear in the way that Greenland is melting as our planet warms up. But at the weights glacier there are surprises. And because of the way the slope underneath is shaped and because of the warm water getting underneath, it all comes down to how long this glacier will stay stable. Kind of. It's like imagine pulling out the foundation of a house and you can pull out a few bricks and a few bricks and a few bricks, but at a certain point you pull out enough bricks and the house falls down and no one knows how many bricks it's gonna take before the weight glacier collapses.

4 (9m 11s):
But we know we're pulling bricks out and that's what's terrifying.

1 (9m 15s):
You've coined this nickname for this glacier, you call it

9 (9m 19s):
The doomsday glacier.

1 (9m 22s):
Do people get on you for being alarmist?

4 (9m 25s):
Yeah, they do, but I, I'm proud of it. You know, I, I wrote a piece, I was one of the first journalists to really write a in-depth piece about this risk of collapse in, in anarch. And I wrote a very long piece for Rolling Stone a few years ago. And I came up with this title sort of as I came up with much of my writing, you know, at three in the morning sitting around in my gym shorts and a dirty t-shirt and thinking about, you know what to call this piece

10 (9m 49s):
Down in Antarctica. A doomsday glacier is disintegrating faster than previously thought. Okay, that's terrifying. And I gotta say doesn't help that we're calling it the Doomsday Glacier. Can't we pick something a little happier like the the free G glacier or the have you lost weight iceberg?

4 (10m 9s):
But I think it's appropriate, I mean, I don't mean to say it's going to fall apart tomorrow, but it's like, you know, we call a gun a lethal weapon because it can kill you. And if there's any glacier in the world that civilization depends upon staying stable, it's this one and because of its risk of sudden collapse, I, I think it's an appropriate phrase and it certainly has gotten people's attention.

1 (10m 33s):
So it worked.

4 (10m 34s):
It did work. I mean, you know, people talk about it and you know, people would not be talking about it. I don't think as much, if we were calling it the weights glacier and, and I don't think that it's alarmist, I think it accurately suggests kind of what's at stake

11 (11m 2s):
This season. Uncover story.

12 (11m 4s):
He's the most articulate, he's the most savvy, he's very cunning.

11 (11m 8s):
It seemed like the perfect story, the kind that only comes around once or twice in a journalist's career. Like he's

12 (11m 14s):
Very, very, it's why he destroys everybody

11 (11m 17s):
Out in the woods of Montana. One billionaire was creating his own world also. He could hide something truly despicable. Have

13 (11m 26s):
You heard of girls being like followed?

14 (11m 28s):
Is that something you've experienced?

11 (11m 30s):
At least that's what we were told.

15 (11m 33s):
You ask if I consider him a friend or if he's someone I trust us both are absolutely yes, I would trust him with my life.

11 (11m 45s):
This season on cover story, what actually happened

16 (11m 48s):
Happens once in everybody's life. And this guy is a master liar, master liar.

11 (11m 55s):
Cover story. Season two, seed money. Listen wherever you get your podcasts,

0 (12m 3s):
You

17 (12m 4s):
Are watching the flight briefing for NASA's Artemis one mission.

18 (12m 7s):
The agency's mission is being heralded as the start of a new era of space exploration.

19 (12m 14s):
This week NASA launched Artemis one the first in a series of missions that'll eventually take humans back to the moon with one big difference This time,

20 (12m 23s):
This time we're going back to stay.

19 (12m 26s):
NASA is planning for a permanent moon base and even a mission to Mars. But there's a pretty basic problem.

21 (12m 33s):
Space is terrible, it wants to kill us.

0 (12m 36s):
Okay, here we've had a problem

21 (12m 38s):
Here. It's cold, it's full of radiation, it's not our warm, enveloping wonderful earth.

19 (12m 44s):
That's where Artemis comes in. It's kind of this giant experiment to see whether our bodies can actually survive deep space.

21 (12m 52s):
How bad is it? How much can we handle

19 (12m 56s):
This week? Unexplainable, what does space do to the human body? Follow unexplainable for new episodes every Wednesday

1 (13m 16s):
Today, explained back with Jeff Goodell talking about the perilous effects of a doomsday glacier if and when it breaks apart from Antarctica. But really we don't need to wait for Dwights to see the effects because this, as you surely know, is already happening.

4 (13m 31s):
Yeah, I mean I started riding about sea level rise after hurricane Sandy hit New York and I saw all this water in lower Manhattan,

22 (13m 39s):
Sandy's 14 foot surge washed into Manhattan South ferry station, like a tidal wave carrying thousands of pounds of

4 (13m 46s):
Debris. And I was talking to a scientist at Columbia and he said, well this is sort of a kind of interesting dress rehearsal for sea level rise cuz we had eight or nine feet of water in lower Manhattan. And that was sort of, and still is the sort of high end of what we might see by the end of the century. But then he said, you really wanna think about sea level rise, go down to Miami on a high tide. And I'm like, why? And he said, go. And you'll see. So I went to Miami on high tide and I was walking through this area called Sunset Harbor where you know there's million dollar condos. And I actually bumped into Lenny Kravitz, the the rock guy while I was wandering around.

4 (14m 27s):
But you know, I was wandering through water up to my knees on just a sunny day at high tide in Miami in this like district where there's million dollar condos. And I was like, oh this is a problem. And I realized that you know, this city of Miami is built on borrowed time and that's what began my whole journey into the book. The water will come and eventually led me to Antarctica.

1 (14m 57s):
So present day Miami Lenny Kravitz and you were walking around and you got water up to your knees right next to million dollar condos. What does Miami look like in, I don't know, 50 years?

4 (15m 10s):
Miami in 50 years looks like a very different place. Miami in 50 years has water in the living rooms of houses in low lying areas. It has streets that are submerged, it has collapsing real estate values, it has new disease patterns that we don't know about yet and can't anticipate. It has people freaking out about the polluted water that's rising up in their front yard. It's a very different world. I mean I think that that in 50 years there will be a lot of new building in Miami, A lot of structures that are elevated hopefully maybe there'll be some even floating buildings, floating structures, things like that.

4 (16m 2s):
Miami will have no choice but to figure out a way to live with water. There will not be a kind of dry Miami beach. There will be a inundated Miami beach. There will be dryer places and wetter places, but the water will come.

1 (16m 19s):
What is Miami doing right now to prepare for that future?

4 (16m 24s):
Well, you know, when I went first went down there in 2013, they were doing basically nothing, which was stunning to me. They've done a lot now. I mean they are taking this very seriously. They've spent a lot of millions of dollars improving drainage, which has been a big problem. So when the water comes in, getting it out as quickly as

23 (16m 44s):
Possible, as you can see at the edge of the sidewalk looking like ocean front property with the water overflowing there, I,

4 (16m 50s):
They spend a lot of money building pumps, giant pumps the size of like, you know, cars that are built in various neighborhoods to pump the water out when it comes in.

24 (17m 0s):
Down on South Beach at eighth end, Alton, there was a lot more water cars driving through several inches while pumps really did their best to try and push it out of the area.

4 (17m 12s):
They've changed the building codes so that new buildings have to be higher. They've done a lot to elevate critical infrastructure above flood levels. So they're doing a lot but they have a lot left to do and, and it's not clear what the strategy is in the long term for the survival of the city.

1 (17m 29s):
And how does that compare to how other coastal cities in this country in a broader, are getting ready for this reality?

4 (17m 36s):
Well one of the problems that Miami has that other cities don't have is that Miami's built on a kind of porous limestone.

25 (17m 44s):
Miami limestone is one of the most porous limestones anywhere and water just pours through it very, very, very rapidly.

4 (17m 52s):
So you can't really build sea walls in the same way that you can in other places because the water will go underneath the sea wall or through this forest limestone and pop up on the other side. Other cities like Charleston for example, right now is building a, I think they're spending a billion dollars on a very large sea wall to keep the water out.

26 (18m 12s):
The Army Corps of engineers and city leaders have been drafting plans that look at the impacts from flooding storms and hurricanes on the peninsula. Through that study, officials have suggested a 12 foot storm surge wall that will cost $1.1 billion to help storm impacts for homes and businesses.

4 (18m 28s):
Houston, I live in Austin, Texas right now and and Houston here has this thing called the Ike Dyke, which is a 30 billion wall at the opening of Galveston Bay that will keep storm surges and higher water out.

27 (18m 43s):
It was the destruction hurricane Ike left in its wake in 2008 that sparked the idea to protect Galveston and Houston from the devastating surge of another monster

4 (18m 51s):
Storm. But because the topography and things of Miami, that's impossible to do down there. So they basically have to elevate buildings and figure out ways to live with water cuz the water is coming. You know, we see all along the Gulf Coast, Houston, new Orleans, all these places are sinking also, if the ground beneath you was sinking because of pumping out water from the aquifer below and other reasons that accelerates sea level rise. So places like New Orleans are in big trouble, even though they have spent millions of billions of dollars on all of the dykes and other protection, flood protection. After Hurricane Katrina,

28 (19m 32s):
Rain came down hard and fast leaving flooding all over parts of southeast Louisiana. The rain caused problems from the North shore to plaque's parish and just about everywhere in between,

4 (19m 42s):
You know, cities like Venice built on water but are also in enormous trouble also. They're subsiding and sinking, they're building big gates to try to keep the water out, but that's not gonna work. And then you see it in lots of cities around the world. Asia, Bangkok is in in big trouble. Indonesia, Jakarta, places like that are also in big trouble. And so what's gonna happen is not just the sort of inundation of cities and what that means for things like real estate values and stuff, but it's also means migration. People are gonna be leaving and where are they gonna go?

29 (20m 16s):
Our experts are predicting as many as 1 billion climate migrants crossing international borders in the balance of this century. Think of the millions that are crossing borders now and the xenophobia and authoritarian populism that is caused by a large surge of refugees. And then imagine if you will, what a billion climate refugees would do. It would end the possibilities of self-governance,

4 (20m 43s):
Migration, immigration is a giant issue and sea level rise is gonna be kind of an engine of that.

1 (20m 50s):
Do you see clear examples of good reactions to this and and bad reactions to this? People who are taking the right steps and and taking the threat very seriously?

4 (21m 2s):
Yeah, I mean I think, you know, all of these cities I've mentioned Miami, you know, new Orleans, Houston, New York, Boston. I think many cities are taking the threat very seriously. I think the question is like what do you do and where do you get the money and how do you actually get things done? And I think that it's pretty easy to get the Army Corps of Engineers to build a big wall and try to keep the water out that way. But really it's going to require thinking about things like retreat, like managed retreat, like saying we're not gonna build in in particular areas cuz it's getting flooded out all the time and how you deal with that and the kind of collapsing or reduction of the tax base is a, a big problem.

4 (21m 45s):
So I don't think the awareness right now is, is the issue. I think the issue is what do we do and how do we do it and how much is it gonna cost?

1 (21m 56s):
Are we at least past the point, Jeff, where people are refusing to acknowledge the threat that people say, oh you know, sea levels they rise and they fall. It's, it's a cycle we've seen through history. Is that thinking, is that mentality a thing of the past at this point?

4 (22m 14s):
Well, no, I mean certainly there are plenty of people who still think it's sort of natural cycles and things like that, but I, I think that that's, you know, fading fast. And I think that it's not just because people can see high tide flooding in places where they didn't see it 10 years ago and things like that. But I also think the accumulated evidence of climate change with wildfires, heat waves, we all see it and feel it in our lives in a way that I think a lot of people then saw climate change as this sort of future event. There was a lot of talk about, oh you know, my grandkids, they all have to deal with it and I want to preserve, do the right thing for my grandkids. Well now, just a decade or so later now, it's like, no, hell, it's here now.

4 (22m 57s):
It's happening to us now in real time. And I think you have to be particularly kind of diluted or blind to the world to not see that. And I think that's true broadly. I mean I've seen it in my own reporting over the last decade. You know, there I don't meet that many deniers anymore. I meet a lot of people that say, what the hell are we gonna do and how much is it gonna cost?

1 (23m 22s):
And let's talk about what the hell we can do. As it pertains to your Doomsday Glacier, to the Dwights Glacier, is there anything that can be done to stop it from collapsing or has that ship sailed?

4 (23m 38s):
No, that ship has not sailed. I mean I think it's really important to underscore that what is driving this collapse of Thewas Glacier. The Doomsday Glacier is the warming of the ocean. The ocean is warming up because we're burning fossil fuels and putting CO2 into the atmosphere. It's very clear from all of the science that if we stop doing that and we stabilize the Earth's temperatures, we will stop warming up the ocean further. And that greatly reduces the risk of collapse of Thewas Glacier. It doesn't mean that it won't collapse because there's still a lot of heat built up in the ocean and no one can say for sure, but we can say for sure that if we stop burning fossil fuels and dumping CO2 into the atmosphere, we're going to lower the risk of that happening.

4 (24m 27s):
So that is the number one thing that we have to do. If you want to talk about how do we reduce the risk at the weights, I mean I, there's wild, nutty stories about using jacks and some kind of like weird, like props to hold it up or something like that. Or putting ropes around it and like trying to hold it in place and all kinds of crazy ideas. These sort of techno fixes. None of them do. I, or anybody that I know who's a, you know, in the world of science, who understands this stuff, take at all seriously. The big tool is decarbonization is getting off fossil fuels. That's the most important thing we could do. And then preparing in a realistic way for the fact that seas are going to rise and we're not going to stop that.

4 (25m 11s):
The seas are going to rise and we need to begin thinking about living differently on the coasts.

1 (25m 36s):
Jeff Goodell is a contributing editor at Rolling Stone. You can find his writing on the Doomsday glacier@rollingstone.com. Our program today was produced by Abhi Artsy. It was edited by me and Matthew Collect and engineered by Paul Robert Moy. Laura Bullard. Fact checked the show is today explained.