0 (1s):
It's easy to look at a climate conference being held in an oil rich country being run by oil rich people and think cynical thoughts. I think history records will show that in 2023 for COP 28, we let a mosquito lead the fight against malaria. But then they actually pulled something off For the first time ever in 30 years, almost 28 years to be exact of doing these climate negotiations, every country in the world agreed to transition away from fossil fuels. History has been made at COP 28 in Dubai. This is the first time the final agreement actually uses the words fossil fuels.

0 (41s):
Tim McDonnell was in Dubai covering the big moment for Semaphore where he's their climate editor. This is really unprecedented and you know, there's certainly plenty of things in the agreement that people can quibble with and we can talk about those. We will, the hard part comes in making this reality. What do you have to do to implement that? We're gonna ask

Visible Wireless (1m 5s):
Support for this show comes from Visible Wireless. They say mystery is the spice of life, but who needs mystery in your wireless plan with visible, what you see is what you get. A one line plan with unlimited 5G data powered by Verizon for just $25 a month. Taxes and fees included. Switch today at visible dot com For data management practices in additional terms, visit visible dot com. In times of traffic, your data may be temporarily slower than other traffic Mobile hotspot capped at five megabits per second. 5G access requires a 5G capable device and a 5G coverage area.

Viator (1m 42s):
Support for this episode comes from via tour. Experiences are what people love the most about travel. That's why Via Tour has over 300,000 bookable experiences. So there's always something for everyone. They offer everything from simple tours to extreme adventures, plus via tour's, travel experiences have millions of real traveler reviews. So you have the information you need to book the best activities for your trip. Download the Via tour app now and use code via tour 10 for 10% off your first booking in the app. One app over 300,000 travel experiences. You'll remember Do more with via tour,

5 (2m 22s):
Judy explained. Okay, so before we get to a historic step forward and the realities of implementation, which I know are plenty complex in their own right, I wanna talk about just all the drama going into this conference. How is that particular drama different from say, climate conferences past?

2 (2m 47s):
Yeah. Well you did have a really interesting and certainly controversial setting of United Arab Emirates hosting this summit. This is a big oil and gas producing nation. You had a person Sul Al-Jaber, who was the chairman of the National Oil Company, ADNOC as the summit president.

0 (3m 8s):
The president of an energy company was in charge of the climate conference.

2 (3m 12s):
Yes, that's right. To

8 (3m 14s):
Address this question. Right. Let me first introduce myself to you. I'm an engineer by background. It's the science and my respect to the science and my passion about the science and it's about my conviction to the science that have enabled me to progress in my career.

2 (3m 32s):
And that certainly has been something that's got a lot of people riled up. Over the last year,

9 (3m 36s):
The oil and gas industry made a mistake in overreaching and naming the CEO of one of the largest and one of the dirtiest by many measures, oil companies in the world as the president of the COP. A

2 (3m 53s):
Lot of people had a lot of questions about this for obvious reasons about his credibility coming into this process. And there was a, you know, there've been some minor scandals along the way. There was some leaked documents that that came out near the beginning of the summit from his marketing team about potentially trying to use side meetings during the COP conference to sign oil and gas deals,

10 (4m 16s):
Leaked documents obtained by the BBC and the Center for Climate Reporting Show that in meetings with at least 27 foreign governments arranged as part of the climate process, Dr. Jabba was briefed to discuss business deals for these state firms,

0 (4m 32s):
Which that's the kind of thing that could like make people wanna pull out their hair when they read reporting that says at the climate conference on which the whole world is staking the future of the planet. They're making oil and gas deals, but you're a climate reporter. How beyond the pale is that really,

2 (4m 50s):
Obviously it sounds ridiculous, Al although I I will say, and I mean, to be fair, this is one of the world's biggest national oil companies. I don't think they, they don't need to host a COP summit to take meetings with, you know, counterparties that they want to do oil and gas deals with. you know, this guy can call any of these people anytime and have whatever meeting to do deals that, that he wants. you know, my read from having been here the last couple of weeks, and this may be a controversial opinion, is that I think that Al-Jaber has actually done quite a good job of, of organizing things here. Hmm. And has, I think that his position as an oil executive, this is, you know, is count counterintuitively, may have been in a way just the thing that was needed at this particular moment in time.

2 (5m 34s):
Wow. One thing, one thing that is really interesting and and challenging about these COP summits and which makes them different from a lot of processes in, in geopolitics, is that they require unanimous consent from every country for decisions to move forward. That means you have to get agreement from the us, China, India, Saudi Arabia island, developing states, you know, African countries, ev everything. Right? They all have to agree on the same stuff that's really, really hard to do on any subject, especially on energy and climate where everybody has very, very different vested interests and, you know, expectations for what the outcome is gonna be.

2 (6m 14s):
And predictably, it is often the big oil and gas exporting countries that are intransigent on trying to get something out of this process that's, you know, ambitious enough to kind of rise to the level that science dictates we need to pursue action at

0 (6m 32s):
Why might African countries feel different from Asian countries, feel different from North American countries, western European countries, what have you.

2 (6m 41s):
You have a huge range of diversity between these countries in the, the level in which they produce or consume fossil fuels. That, and that's what we're talking about here. So you have countries like the US that do both the world's biggest, you know, oil and gas producer and one of the biggest consumers, China biggest consumer. You have emerging economies like Brazil or India that are massively ramping up consumption of, of fossil fuels. On the opposite side of that, you have the very poorest countries, the most vulnerable climate, vulnerable countries, small island states or who have not been the cause of climate change, but are extremely vulnerable to the impacts of it.

2 (7m 21s):
It's an existential crisis for them. And they're often the ones, you know, leading the call for the most ambitious kind of outcome to come out of this sort of thing. I mean this is like really, really a crisis.

11 (7m 33s):
We have come to the conclusion that the course correction that is needed has not been secured. We have made an incremental advancements over business as usual when what we really needed is an exponential step change in our actions and support

2 (7m 49s):
And getting them to all agree on something is really challenging. And I actually think that it, you know, the fact that you had an oil executive leading that conversation, especially an oil executive who, you know, to be fair, the UAE has done more than most other gulf oil exporting nations to diversify its economy away from oil and gas into other things, finance and, you know, real estate and many other things. I think he was able to make a compelling pitch to the kind of Saudi Arabia's and and similar countries of the world about why this transition energy transition is not going to leave them in the dust because that's the problem we've had with all these previous cops.

2 (8m 33s):
They, they come in, they don't see what's in it for them.

8 (8m 35s):
I have said over and over that the face down and the face out of fossil fuel is inevitable. In fact, it is essential and this transition is In fact essential and it needs to be orderly faith just, and

2 (8m 56s):
That's the sort of calculus that I think he was able to pull off here in a way that was probably more credible with the most intransigent players than, than just about any other person I think probably could have done. So.

0 (9m 10s):
This is really interesting. So If, you were a casually following what's going on at this COP summit. It looks really bad. There are PowerPoint presentations that suggest that they were overtly trying to like broker oil and gas deals on the side of this climate summit. This sultan al-Jaber has come out apparently according to reporting and said explicitly that he thinks that there is no science indicating that a phase out of fossil fuels is needed to restrict global heating to 1.5 degrees Celsius. And yet you're saying here that he might have been one of the most ideal people to broker an agreement in this wildly diverse group of players.

2 (9m 52s):
That's right. I know it's, I know that it sounds kind of counterintuitive and I'm sure that, you know, people listening to this are gonna send me angry emails and tweets after they hear me say these things. But again, this is a, it's a diplomatic role that he has. He, he's not really there to sort of advance the UA e's own political position. But I think the elements of this agreement that sort of fall short of people's expectations for the most part have to do with encouraging the richest countries to provide more climate finance for the poorer ones. Not setting very rigorous or specific goals for climate adaptation that, you know, people are upset about that. But the fossil fuel language specifically in that one sentence,

12 (10m 35s):
Transitioning away from fossil fuels and energy systems in a just orderly and equitable manner accelerating action in this critical decade so as to achieve net zero by 2050 in keeping with the science,

2 (10m 49s):
Which is really the kind of main decisive sentence that was going to shape the narrative around whether this was a sort of a, a success or a failure, I think was quite strong. And I don't think that you would've gotten there with a lot of other people in that seat.

0 (11m 10s):
Tim, McDonnell, Semafor, he's gonna tell us what exactly is in this deal and how it's gonna be enforced or whether it's gonna be enforced at all when we're back on today. Explain

SimpliSafe (11m 29s):
Support for today comes from SimpliSafe as 2023 comes to a close. You might be beginning to brainstorm your New Year's resolutions. One of them might be wanting to better protect your home, your spouse, your children from you know the elements. If you're thinking you wanna be better prepared for natural disasters, home intrusions and more, you might wanna consider the award-winning SimpliSafe system named quote, one of the best home security systems of 2023 end quote by US News and World Report. Keep your home and family safer than ever in the new year as a listener. You can save 20% on your new system with a Fast Protect plan by visiting SimpliSafe dot com slash today. Explained. Customize your system in just minutes at SimpliSafe dot com slash today explained, there's no safe like SimpliSafe, say it with me. There's no safe like SimpliSafe.

Hydrow, Inc. (12m 34s):
Did you say it with me? Support for the show today comes from Hydro. Hydro is a state of the art low impact home rowing machine designed by rowers. And according to the company, rowing is an incredible full body workout. They estimate you can work out 86% of your muscles in just a 20 minute session when you row with hydro. I don't row, so I don't know. But Sarah Frank, one of our colleagues here at Vox, she know I really found that not only are the visuals super stunning, the trainers are really engaging, motivating, inspiring, and they really kind of push you through this 20 minute workout. When you buy a hydro, you also get access to their library of virtual workouts. You can join the growing rowing community at Hydro head over to hydro dot com and use the code explained to save up to $500 off your hydro. That is H-Y-D-R-O-W dot com slash explained to save up to $500 hydro dot com. Code explained

14 (13m 58s):
Fox Creative, This is advertiser content from Eli Lilian Company. There's a fair amount of stigma with Alzheimer's disease. Dr. Brandy Matthews is a neurologist in Alzheimer's disease expert at Lilly, and she sees a chance for this to change. I'm hopeful that we're now entering an era in which people will actively seek a timely and accurate Alzheimer's disease diagnosis. To make this future real, we have to start unlearning some of the things we thought we knew about Alzheimer's disease. Like one untruth that I encounter is that everyone will inevitably develop Alzheimer's disease because it's part of normal aging memory and thinking.

14 (14m 41s):
Do change with age much like eyesight and hearing. However, these changes are relatively subtle and restricted, mostly to speed of thinking or processing information and naming of specific items when changes become observable to others or begin to interfere with typical activities as a red flag. Myth two, if I'm diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, there's not much I can do. Diagnosis that's timely in a patient's disease course may also have an impact on the progression of the disease.

14 (15m 20s):
If the intervention happens early knowledge is power and acting early matters .If, you are noticing memory and thinking issues piling up. Go to more than normal aging dot com to learn more

15 (15m 36s):
Today. Today next night.

16 (15m 41s):
Secretary Kerry, happy birthday. Thank you. Happy birthday. We're concerned you're call to face down fossil fuels is being watered down by a cause to andonly emissions. Will the US hold a line on PHAs down fossil fuels by 2030 with no abatement, loopholes,

0 (15m 55s):
Climate activist Alice Hugh tracked down special presidential envoy for climate and brand new 80-year-old John Carey at COP 28. Well,

16 (16m 5s):
We're gonna do the best we can. Great. And on behalf of low-income, communities of color, like the ones I organiz in, that is really, really great to hear. Thank

0 (16m 12s):
You. Alice Hughes activist work is funded in part by a group called the Climate Emergency Fund, which gives grants to what it calls disruptive climate activist Margaret Klein Almon is the group's executive director. We asked her what she thought of the big COP 28 deal.

17 (16m 29s):
I mean including the phrase fossil fuels in the agreement. A phase down of fossil fuels is some kind of step forward. But you have to ask the question, would this agreement if fully implemented, protect humanity and the living world from apocalyptic destruction? And the answer is very clearly no. So this is a non-binding agreement that even if it were implemented fully, would still not protect us. So yeah, it's, I can't get excited about this.

0 (17m 9s):
The reason Margaret can't get excited is because she's been psychoanalyzing the people who made this deal. No joke.

17 (17m 16s):
As a clinical psychologist by training, I like to look at this in terms of normal mode versus emergency mode. Emergency mode is when an individual group or even entire country treats a situation like an actual existential risk. If we don't solve this, we will perish. And that is clearly not happening.

0 (17m 48s):
Activist Margaret, not impressed. Climate editor Tim kind of impressed.

2 (17m 52s):
We've never had a COP agreement that specifically targets all fossil fuels and, and calls to transition away from them. That's totally unprecedented. The same sentence by the way, you know, gives this sort of caveat of doing this transition in a just orderly and equitable manner, which I think is gonna become a really important phrase for certainly for climate activists, but also for developing countries to sort of leverage in their continued call for climate finance from the rich countries to help them in this transition. And also to kind of set some expectations about the, the different pace that different countries need to go on in in that transition.

2 (18m 32s):
We don't need Togo to shut down all of its fossil fuels in the same month that the US does. So everybody's gonna kind of move at, at different paces. And this is a, you know, it's an equity issue because obviously there are many countries in the world for whom, you know, e energy access, energy poverty are, are, are big issues and they may need to increase their use of fossil fuels in the near term as as part of their development, economic development. So anyway, that's all kind of included in here. It's, you know, we also have not actually seen COP text that specifically puts this sort of deadline on 2050 that usually they talk about mid-century. It's just sort of Like a wiggle term. So having 2050 as a hard deadline in there is, is quite important to reach net zero.

0 (19m 14s):
Some caveats here about transitional fuels, about carbon capture, but a lot of groundbreaking stuff, at least for a COP summit. You got fossil fuels in there, you got equity in there, you got a hard deadline in there of 2050. Did everyone sign sign on to this? Is this a unanimous decision? A unanimous agreement?

2 (19m 35s):
It is, yeah. I mean that was the, the gavel came down and, and that was it. Everybody signed on. So that's the, that's that's pretty remarkable

18 (19m 42s):
Hearing. No objection. It is so decided.

0 (19m 48s):
And this includes big old polluters like the United States, like China, like India, like Russia,

2 (19m 52s):
Everybody, everybody, all of 'em.

0 (19m 54s):
So then I guess the multi-trillion dollar question is how do you keep everyone accountable?

2 (20m 4s):
Countries are supposed to come away from this process and implement their own national policies. So, you know, putting in place new laws or policies in their own countries that allow them to meet the goals that are laid out in, in this agreement. And then there's a kind of process for like how countries kind of report those policies to each other and they're supposed to ratchet them up over time. And there's a sort of naming and shaming transparency kind of element to this. You can't take somebody to the ICC or you know, sue them or something if they don't a country, if they don't, you know, stand up to the commitment that they make here.

0 (20m 39s):
Right. And and and you're also like reminding us that countries like let's say China aren't the most transparent about what's going on in China.

2 (20m 49s):
Yeah. I mean of course there's gonna be monitoring issues that go into this. Although one interesting side note from this conference was that you, you did see a lot of interesting developments or just sort of momentum or tension on satellite monitoring of emissions and remote sensing. This

19 (21m 5s):
Morning we're learning about a new way to find and reduce greenhouse gases that are warming our planet. Methane gas, which is usually invisible, can actually be seen in these infrared images.

2 (21m 16s):
I think we're quickly arriving to a world where hidden greenhouse gas emissions are, are not going to be possible anymore. Oh, that's here already actually to a large extent. So, you know, this all just basically boils down to like what do countries do on their own to make this happen? So for the US examples are the inflation reduction act, the bipartisan infrastructure law laws that came out in the US to subsidize renewable energy and, and kind of other parts of the energy transition support the building of clean energy infrastructure. you know, at the beginning of COP you also saw the US announce new regulations on oil and gas methane emissions. Methane is a super potent greenhouse gas that's kind of gone unchecked, flown under the radar, so to speak.

2 (21m 58s):
For a while, the

20 (21m 59s):
US Environmental Protection Agency announced its final rule to prevent an estimated 58 million tons of methane emissions from 2024 to 2038. That's nearly 80% of our current output.

2 (22m 12s):
So we have new legally binding regulations in the US on that. The US is also gonna have new regulations on carbon dioxide emissions from the power sector coming probably in the first quarter of, of next year. So tho those are the sort of examples of the types of national policies that actually kind of make this transition away from fossil fuels more likely to happen.

0 (22m 33s):
I think a lot of people were betting against COP 28, not only because of the fossil fuel energy stakeholders in the mix, but also because this, this summit is happening at a time where countries are experiencing crippling inflation. And a lot of countries like the United States and even the United Kingdom that have set a lot of climate goals are, are rolling back on what they've said they've do and turning back to, to fossil fuels. How did they get everyone on board in such a precarious moment economically?

2 (23m 4s):
I do think the macroeconomic context here is, is a sort of headwind or a challenge, although it's, it's worth noting that the costs of renewable energy and energy storage and you know, batteries, a lot of these other technologies are, are plummeting every year. And we're also seeing the cost of climate change. I mean, people are realizing if there's some cost associated with making this type of transition, that it's well worth it because the cost of doing nothing are far, far, far higher. So that, that's the kind of reality that we're in. Now I think one thing that's interesting here is to see how oil and gas companies navigate the sort of political signal that comes out of this COP the reality, and this kind of goes back as well to your, your question about accountability and implementation for this, the reality is that oil demand is rising.

2 (23m 58s):
What we need to kind of see is what else governments can do to intervene on the demand front. Because until we bend that demand curve, we're not gonna really see the, the acceleration of the transition that we wanna see. And

0 (24m 12s):
What happens when governments change I mean, you're talking about the United States being a, an important player in setting these goals in, in following through. But of course there's a presidential election coming in the United States and the leading Republican contender doesn't have so much of an interest in these kinds of policies.

21 (24m 33s):
I never understood wind, you know, I know windmills very much. I've studied it better than anybody I know. It's very expensive. They're made in China and Germany, mostly, very few made here, almost none. But they're manufactured tremendous. If you're into this tremendous fumes, gasses are spewing into the atmosphere. you know, we have a world, right? So the world is tiny compared to the universe.

2 (24m 60s):
I think that the election in the US is definitely a risk to this process. And you know, if Donald Trump gets elected president and you know, acts in any way like he did in his first term, pulling out of the Paris agreement, stripping away pollution regulation, trying to roll back tax credits for clean energy, that that sort of thing, I mean that certainly is not gonna help the the US get to these goals. I would add though, that compared even to Trump's last term in office, that the economic conditions of this energy transition are very different. The cost of renewables is much lower. And I think at this point there's just enough momentum behind this that any company sees the direction that the global economy is going and there's no rolling back from here.

22 (25m 52s):
We are seeing EVs more every day. Good to know there's one that can still make people safe. You don't see that every day because it's the only EV that's an F-150.

2 (26m 7s):
So to that extent, that makes me feel like the US election, for example, is less important in this, in this process because this stuff is gonna move ahead either way. So

0 (26m 16s):
Perhaps even more counterintuitively, you're saying If, you don't have faith in governments have faith in capitalism?

2 (26m 23s):
I I do. Yeah. I mean I think that companies that are in this energy transition space see the direction of travel and don't want to be left behind and want to figure out a way to, to survive there. And I think one thing you're gonna potentially see as a result of that, which you know may be also challenging for the climate politics is that there could be some more kind of energy price volatility in the near term I mean, you know, there's gonna be some bumps along the road in all of this still going forward,

0 (26m 52s):
I think it's easy to, to read about all of these COP summits and sort of despair because it never seems like enough is happening. It never feels like everyone's fully on board. But here we have COP 28 and you've got a historic agreement, you've got everyone unanimous decision to regulate fossil fuels to do it by a deadline to make it equitable. It sounds good, but then you're telling us people still want gas. People still want oil. There's economic factors. It's sensitive to industry, it's sensitive to politics. You are there. I mean, should people despair or should people feel hopeful?

2 (27m 28s):
Well, I've been covering climate change for almost 15 years, so I, this question looms large over my, my life as a climate journalist. I think that people should feel hopeful. Honestly. That is not to say that there are not challenges ahead or that there are not climate impacts ahead because there definitely are, and we have not seen the worst of this. It's going to get worse from here. That is unavoidable. So that is scary and that's the world that we live in. But I do think that there is momentum building around the transition and the solutions that are needed.

2 (28m 8s):
We have it within our ability as a kind of global society or global economy to take actions that really have a dramatic impact on what the future is gonna look like. And we can do those things and we're doing some of them now. So I do take hope from that.

0 (28m 27s):
Tim McDonnell hopeful he's awaiting your angry emails and tweets at semaphore. This is today explained from Vox. Our show was produced by Isabel Angell and Victoria Chamberlin. We were edited by Miranda Kennedy fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by David Herman. We'll have more for you tomorrow.