1 (3s):
It seems every generation's great revolutionaries suffer from unfair imprisonment. Whose account was that tweeted from yesterday. It's not one of the young protestors in Iran who faced the threat of execution. It's not one of the nurses striking for better working conditions. Today in New York, it's Andrew Tate, a man influencer who sits in prison in Bucharest, Romania, accused of rape and human trafficking. Millions of people, mostly men, follow Tate for his brand of bullish optimism, unrepentant, even grotesque misogyny. And now it seems we can add self-pity to the mix. This man who's had an outsized impact on the culture is now facing criminal charges. And today, on today explained, we will examine who he is and what he tells us about who we are.

1 (46s):
A heads up. Andrew Tate says some terrible things about women, and we will use a small amount of that tape in this episode. If that's not for you. We'll see you back here tomorrow.

0 (60s):
Dating

2 (1m 1s):
Apps, whether you're single in a relationship or summer in between, you can't get away from them. But what happens when your romantic life is part of a company's bottom line? How did dating become a multi-billion dollar business? I'm Lakshmi Renn,

3 (1m 16s):
And I'm Sangita Sing Kurtz. We are hosting Land of the Giants, a podcast about the biggest tech companies of our time.

2 (1m 23s):
This season, we're exploring how apps like Tinder, hinge and Bumble impact our search for love

3 (1m 28s):
Land of the Giants dating games from the Verge, the Cut, and the Vox Media podcast network.

2 (1m 35s):
Subscribe for free wherever you listen and get our first episode on Wednesday, January 11th.

4 (1m 41s):
It's hard to make predictions about a new year just as it starts, but you're probably safe saying that 2023 will be bad for Hollywood.

5 (1m 50s):
All of these companies have either announced layoffs or have said that they are planning, hiring freezes or cost cutting in the new year. And that's a recession in my mind,

4 (2m 2s):
How a Hollywood recession might change what we watch for years to come. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast,

1 (2m 21s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. Rebecca Jennings covers internet culture at Vox. And last summer she wrote a piece titled, you Can Ignore Andrew Tate. Her argument went thusly. Do you have children who know who Andrew Tate is? Talk to them. Are you an officer of law enforcement investigating his alleged crimes? Keep doing that. Otherwise, ignore him all together. You'll be doing the world a favor. But this week, little man, Tate is everywhere. Not for some gulling or deranged thing he said, but because he is now charged with real crimes. So I called Rebecca to ask, who is Andrew Tate?

6 (2m 55s):
So Andrew Tate is an influencer in his thirties. His whole thing is telling young men how to be successful basically. And in the process of doing so, he's deeply, deeply misogynistic. He's very proud of that fact.

7 (3m 8s):
I will state right now that I am absolutely sexist and I'm absolutely a misogynist because I'm a realist. And when you're a realist, you're sexist. There's no way you can be rooted in reality and not be sexist.

6 (3m 17s):
He shows himself smoking cigars, driving cars surrounded by models in various degrees of undress. He has gotten really, really big on TikTok, YouTube, Twitter in the past few years, but has been banned on several of those platforms because of his extremely misogynistic comments. What

1 (3m 36s):
Kinds of comments? What, what sort of things does he say that make him a misogynist?

6 (3m 40s):
Some of the things he said, you know, he would brag about assaulting women if she accused him of cheating. Hey,

7 (3m 47s):
Hey, you cheater, you cheating. It's bang out the machete, boom in her face and gripper up by the neck. Shaw

6 (3m 54s):
<unk> how he views women who are younger as more valuable because he can make an imprint on them.

7 (4m 1s):
The reason 18 and 19 year olds are more attractive than 25 year olds is cause they've been through Les

6 (4m 6s):
Oh, on a podcast episode once he said that he had hit a woman and broke her jaw during a bar fight, but got away with it. Many said he moved to Romania because they're less likely to investigate charges of sexual assault.

1 (4m 16s):
Okay, so misogyny plus. Yes. How did this guy in his thirties get to where he is? These are statements that I don't know you, you might expect from a man's mouth 200 years ago, right? Where did this guy come from?

6 (4m 29s):
So he's kind of been trying to get famous for a long time. He grew up in the uk. His dad was a professional chess player.

7 (4m 38s):
When you're playing chess, you take every single opportunity to exert power. That's how you win.

6 (4m 46s):
He was into kickboxing for a while. Andrew

8 (4m 49s):
Takes arrogant, his brash, his bold, he's confident, but the speed of the king Cobra venomous when he hits

6 (4m 58s):
And he went on Big Brother in the uk,

9 (5m 2s):
Tate was a kickboxer, kicked off a UK reality TV show.

10 (5m 6s):
Andrew has had to leave the big brother house

9 (5m 10s):
Because of a video where he appeared to attack a

6 (5m 13s):
Woman, but he claims that it was consensual. And from there, he and his brother founded this webcam business where he would lure women into living with him and then pressuring them to perform like online sex work. You know, where men pay to talk to you online. But he and his brother would pocket the money. And since then he has operated this scheme where he tells young men how to, you know, become exactly like him. How to make money online, doing like scam adjacent things like drop shipping and crypto investing. He's really good at going viral on TikTok because he has all of these flashy things. He has these exotic cars, all these models. He smokes cigars and like, you know, he looks like budget pit bull is what someone else described him as.

6 (5m 59s):
So he's good at getting attention, but in the worst way possible.

1 (6m 4s):
Who does his message resonate with?

6 (6m 8s):
So Andrew Tate has a lot of fans, pretty much all of them male be it adult men or teenage boys or middle school aged boys. And most of the coverage has been on his influence with that demographic. You know, there are a lot of complaints online from teachers who say that boys in their classes who listen to Andrew Tate have just completely derailed any kind of discussion of anything political and that he's responsible for an uptick in sexist remarks and sexual harassment in schools. The

11 (6m 35s):
Amount of young 11 year old boys that told me that they love Andrew Tate is ridiculous. This man is really affecting the minds of young men.

6 (6m 49s):
We've seen versions of this kind of guy, this kind of like manosphere type of like alpha male conspiracy theory. Like everyone's out to get you. You can only like look out for yourself type of guy.

7 (7m 2s):
They want you to do your job well enough for them to benefit, but they don't want you to think outside of that job.

6 (7m 10s):
One of his main revenue sources is this thing called Hustlers University, where people pay like 50 bucks a month to do these courses that he sells in order to, yeah, like figure out how to become rich online. The

7 (7m 21s):
Reason I start at Hustle's University is because I was arguing with someone about how pointless the modern education system

6 (7m 26s):
Is. And so naturally the kind of people that that attracts are, you know, people that don't have a lot of money who are maybe young, don't know what they're doing with their lives, maybe like are in a state of, you know, transition or looking for some kind of way out of their current situation. So naturally that you know, often aligns with like younger men.

1 (7m 46s):
We're talking about Andrew Tate in large part because late last month something happened to him and in response to what happened, he tweeted the following, the matrix sent in their agents. What happened? What was Andrew Tate referring to?

6 (8m 0s):
So yeah, so on December 29th, the Romanian police arrested him and his brother and two other suspects on charges of rape and human trafficking. They allege that they have six victims of trafficking in which, you know, him and his brother would lure these women to these certain buildings or houses in Romania and sort of like under false pretenses, right? Like sort of like love bombing them, like saying like, okay, we're in a relationship now, whatever. And then once they're there, you know, they're under constant surveillance and they're forced by threat of violence to perform the sort of online sex worker online porn, which would then be distributed with the Tate brothers, you know, making all the money. So this is obviously extremely serious stuff.

6 (8m 41s):
And currently he's being detained for 30 days now. So end of January.

1 (8m 46s):
These are very serious criminal charges. What has he said about them beyond that cryptic tweet?

6 (8m 52s):
Yeah, like he keeps on just tweeting this same kind of stuff. Like there are dark forces working against you, you must recognize them and you must fight back. So he's like kind of building this mythos that he's being witch hunted or he's some kind of a threat to this larger system where really, you know, he's a threat to these women who he is trafficking and assaulting. Two

1 (9m 12s):
Days before he was arrested in Romania, Andrew Tate tweeted at Greta Thunberg, the climate activist. Tell me about that

6 (9m 20s):
Exchange. So Tate tweets, hello at Greta Thunberg, I have 33 cars. My Bugatti has a W 16 8.0 liter quad turbo. My two for, I don't know anything about cars, I'm sorry, my two Ferrari eight 12 have 6.5 liter V12 s This is just the start, please provide your email address so I can send a complete list of my car collection and their respective enormous emissions. And Greta responded, yes, please do enlighten me, email me at small <unk> energy get life.com.

1 (9m 53s):
Okay, so he is trolling a teenage girl. Why did that make news?

6 (9m 57s):
So, so I believe this made news because you know, Andrew Tate is already such a person who is good at courting attention and, and really riling up and angering people as is Greta, how dare you? So I, I think when you have these two kind of bastians of both sides being, you know, uber trolls and, and you know, being like, Greta's response was pretty funny. And so that just makes for a fun news article. And then obviously what happened afterwards, because right after this, you know, his arrest took place that made it even more prescient. And so yeah, it, it was huge news.

1 (10m 33s):
Andrew Tate has this enormous online following, how have social media companies responded to him?

6 (10m 39s):
Right? I mean, so until Twitter reinstated him, he's been banned from Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, YouTube, but he's not really welcome there anymore. But I think like the, the real problem with that is that most of the Andrew Tate videos, at least on TikTok and, and probably elsewhere as well, they're not posted by him. They're posted by people who are fans of him. And so you can't really ban one specific person from the internet in a meaningful way when like, you know, you've already banned the user. There's not much more you can do to ban, you know, even images of that person. Hmm. So I think that's kind of the fundamental conundrum of him on the internet.

1 (11m 18s):
How are the millions of people who find him compelling responding to the fact that he's been arrested on, again, very serious charges. Yeah. Not saying something offensive, not being a jerk. Yeah. Rape, sexual trafficking.

6 (11m 31s):
Right. And I think it's the same kind of mindset where, you know, if you're being told that this guy is actually, you know, he's misunderstood, he's not really a misogynist. He just says these things to get attention and, but he's really like saying, you know, important stuff about the value of hard work. But it's like, if you're already able to kind of convince yourself as to like, that's what's happening, it's easy to convince yourself that like, you know, people are really out to get him. You know, these charges are fake, you know, know, like these things aren't actually happening. It's all, they all just like want him gone. So they're making up these accusations.

12 (11m 60s):
Andrew Tate is evil because he encourages men to focus on positivity. This is the real reason why they go

13 (12m 5s):
After there is an agenda. It's a silence. Guys like Andrew Tate, not the Romanian government is under intense pressure from the United States and big tech to shut

6 (12m 12s):
Him down. And so, yeah, I think people who have already bought into the Andrew Tate mindset are very willing to believe that it is actually all fake.

1 (12m 24s):
Last summer you wrote a story about Andrew Tate and the headline was, you can ignore Andrew Tate. Does this arrest change your mind on whether this man is somebody we should pay attention to?

6 (12m 34s):
I mean, I think what the arrest has done has made it impossible to not pay attention to him because obviously these are very serious charges and you know, he's a very influential person, especially if you have young boys at home who spend a lot of time online or young girls who have to be around boys who spend a lot of time online. But beyond that, I think whenever there's a meaningful feminist movement, as I think like a lot of this stuff is really just backlash to me too, there's going to be these people that profit off of that backlash. I mean, I don't think that we need to give this guy a ton of attention or pretend that he's some kind of genius when you know, he's just kind of capitalizing on something that's much more prevalent in culture.

6 (13m 17s):
Since time and Memorial you have had like 12 year old boys being like, Ugh, like women belong in the kitchen and right now the loudest voice in the room telling them that is Andrew Tate.

1 (13m 29s):
Coming up next, we try our hardest to figure out why Andrew Tate appeals to millions of men.

Coda.io (13m 42s):
Support for today's show comes from Coda in the year 2023. Coda and I are all about efficiency. With Coda, users can look to make their workflow fast and efficient. Coda is a dock where teams can work on entire projects from start to finish with everything they need in one place. That includes document spreadsheets and a stack of workflow tools all in one centralized location regardless of format. Most people wanna work faster, but speed can sometimes come at the cost of quality. With Coda, you and your team can work on solving problems quickly and collaborate in one place to get projects across the finish line. So all the right information and the right words are right where you need them. If you are ready to join, what I'm told is being called the Efficiency revolution. I love it. I'm down with Coda. You can get started today for free. You can head over to coda.io/explained, that's coda.io. You can get started for free. coda.io/explained

14 (14m 42s):
You nervous about these scientific mysteries? Yeah,

15 (14m 45s):
Yeah. I'm gonna do my best. Oh wait, no, we're adversaries. I'm gonna beat

14 (14m 48s):
You. That is the attitude we

15 (14m 50s):
Want. Yeah. I'm not here to make friends.

14 (14m 52s):
Yeah, I'm here to guess mysteries.

15 (14m 55s):
Yeah, that's right.

14 (14m 57s):
This week on Unexplainable, we're bringing back our game show. We got three potential mysteries. Mystery one.

15 (15m 4s):
Oh no, that's terrifying.

14 (15m 8s):
Mystery two

15 (15m 10s):
What?

14 (15m 12s):
And Mystery three

15 (15m 14s):
Get out. Come on.

14 (15m 16s):
Our guest this week is Avery Truffleman, host of the Articles of Interest podcast.

15 (15m 20s):
Thanks for having me. I'm terrified.

14 (15m 25s):
She's gonna try to guess which of these mysteries are still mysteries and which one has actually recently been solved.

15 (15m 33s):
Lisa, what's the answer? What's the answer?

14 (15m 35s):
To find out follow unexplainable for new episodes every Wednesday.

16 (15m 43s):
Do you know who edu Tate is? Yeah, dude, I love him. Would you be shocked if I told you you were the first pro Tate person out here all today? Yeah, nobody likes him anymore. Dude. Angie Tre, my boy. Angie my boy. You got this bro. Angie tastes the best

1 (15m 56s):
Bro. It's today explained. We are back this time with Robert Lawson. He teaches sociolinguistics at Birmingham City University in the uk. He's got a book coming out called Language and Mediated Masculinities. Robert, when did you become aware of Andrew Tate? Do you remember when this guy crossed your radar?

17 (16m 15s):
So as part of my research, I'm interested in language and masculinity, particularly in media spaces. And so unfortunately through my line of research, I have to spend time on the less enjoyable, less pleasant parts of the internet. So I can spend time on, on manosphere subreddits, manosphere blogs, forums and so on, kind of trying to understand how does masculinity get kind of configured and understood in these places. And I think it was in one of those forays that that tape originally popped up. And it would've probably have just been something that was linked to a Jordan Peterson video or a Ben Shapiro video, or a Stephen Crowder video.

17 (16m 56s):
This kind of what's occasionally called the intellectual dark web YouTube's kinda algorithms put it through to my front page. And from there, what YouTube's algorithms do and a lot of other social media sites do, they, they start to feed you more of the same content and ideas to kind drive engagement, drive ad views in particular becomes kinda a really dangerous pathway, if you like, from one form of content that might seem fairly innocuous through to potentially more extremist and more radical content. And that was sort of interested in, you know, why is this guy so popular and what is it that he's selling that people are buying you on any YouTube video of him at all.

17 (17m 37s):
And you read the comments under the video and they're almost all universally positive praising tape for, you know, how insightful, how brave, how inspirational he is. And there's very few dissenting voices on those YouTube comments

1 (17m 53s):
As you watch the videos of Andrew Tate and listen to Andrew Tate. Talk to me about where your mind went on the question of this man appeals to millions of people. Why, why is that?

17 (18m 4s):
I think why he is so sad up seductive to such a big audience is because the image of masculinity that he sells is, is one that's very rooted in traditional male kinda characteristics and behaviors. Power control. He's very big on this idea of the alpha male, the the man that's in control that always knows what he's doing, that always gets what he wants, that has everyone kinda waiting for him, handing foot and sort of this idea that he's infallible. I think someone can see that as a, a particularly kinda attractive trait. But he is also big on kinda conspicuous for consumption.

17 (18m 44s):
He lives a very jet set lifestyle. You know, fast cars, private planes, mansions, expensive holidays away. And then he has, you know, I think really traditional and, and to my mind outdated views about what a relationship should look like, what the role of men and women in those relationships should be. And so the man is not just the kind of protector, but the patriarch, the provider, but what he says goes, it's his way or the highway. Women are only there to, you know, attend to the house, to look after the kids, to really be in service of the relationship. And, and so I think my immediate reaction was probably one of sadness, that this is the kinda image of masculinity that sells.

1 (19m 30s):
What is it about the society that we are living in in 2023 that makes Andrew Tate acceptable and attractive to millions of men?

17 (19m 40s):
So one of the, sort of the best accounts that I've read as to why young men in particular found this kind of articulation of masculinity and someone like t advocating for it is Michael Kimmel's idea of aggrieved entitlement. And it's basically based on the idea that over the course of the last sort of 20, 30 years, the world has changed in a way that has decentered primarily young white men and they have kind of moved from the center of society to the margins of society. Every

7 (20m 14s):
Single society that was successful since the dawn of human time was male led all of them. And then the last 30 years we've come along and saying, let's put women in charge, it's gonna be good for us. Well, I don't think

17 (20m 24s):
It will be. And someone like Tate is attractive because he recenters young white men in a really obvious and, and very explicit kind of, of way and, and basically says, you are important. Your need, your masculinity is needed to fight against all of the changes that are happening in the world. The world is no longer for you or wants to invest in you. No longer are women reliant on men financially, emotionally. And I think that someone like t basically says, we will fight against that. And, and here's how we fight against that is by reclaiming this kind of sense of primal traditional masculinity.

17 (21m 11s):
And, and that's a story that goes all the way back to, you know, even the 1980s

18 (21m 17s):
Warren Farrell claims women drive men to prove themselves so much that men have got themselves into a serious rut. And the only way out is a men's liberation movement.

17 (21m 27s):
A lot of what Tate is saying in some senses isn't actually new. It's a re-articulation of a kinda crisis of masculinity discourse that we see back in the 1970s, back in the 1980s through the men's movement led up by people like Robert Bly and so on. Whether it was that sense of sort of reconnecting with your own masculinity as a way of kind of fixing the world. I think he's only another entry in a long line of other men who have done something similar.

1 (21m 59s):
Does your research show us anything about whether these young men who are impressed by Andrew Tate, who are seduced by Andrew Tate are fundamentally hateful people are fundamentally misogynist? Or are they unmoored young men who are being taken for a ride by a misogynist con artist?

17 (22m 18s):
I think what someone like Tate does is he normalizes misogyny. I think he makes it seem socially acceptable. I think he wraps up in a discourse of rationality. This is just the way that the world is. This is just the way that people are.

7 (22m 38s):
I really try and base my worldviews on brutal realism. I try and be a realist, even if it's hard to be a realist. And

17 (22m 48s):
I don't think that we can say that the men that engage with this content are fundamentally misogynistic. It might be that through a, a process of repeated watchings of engaging with his content, of posting up on forums about him or on Twitter or on YouTube comments or whatever, that they may be nudged towards these positions as misogynistic. But that's what a lot of radicalization looks like. It's, it's taken someone from one position and gradually moving them along that path of, of radicalization, extremists kind of viewpoints where those viewpoints, which initially seemed extreme, become normalized.

17 (23m 33s):
And so I think Tate represents, you know, the kinda one strategy, if you like, of, of that radicalization pathway to male supremacism.

1 (23m 43s):
So the question then becomes, if not Andrew Tate, then what we wanna do better than this man. Where should young men be able to go if they want optimism and strength and attention to men's issues, if we can call them that, without the misogyny, without the hatred of women, does that currently exist? And if so, where? And if it does not, where should it?

17 (24m 5s):
So I think first and foremost, I would say that young men shouldn't be looking at social media personalities for, you know, what it is to be a man. I think they're much better off looking within their local communities, their families, their friendship networks for emulating masculinities that they find, you know, supportive, nurturing, healthy places for young men to meet other men that they can look up to, that they can be mentored by. I think for those young men, you know, who are really struggling with their own sense of masculinity and what it is to be a man, things like counseling can be really helpful.

17 (24m 49s):
And I, I don't think that there's anything wrong with seeking those kinds of forms of support out As far as the manosphere goes. You know, I I I have hopes, not high hopes, but, but some hopes I think of, of what a more progressive kind of manosphere might look like. And one that's kind of free of the misogyny and anti-feminist kind of stance that we see in a, in a lot of manosphere species. Whether that will actually come to pass is an open question, but I think take sells this really romanticized and to me, quite superficial idea of what it is to be a man.

17 (25m 31s):
I know loads of men, I don't know anybody who acts or talks or behaves like Andrew Tate. Hmm. I think Tate is a, a Hollywood form of masculinity, but it's one that you know, is as deep as a puddle. There's no substance. The men that, that I look up to, you know, people like my dad, teachers that I had in school, instructors that I had when I was in, you know, my youth groups. Those are the men that have, you know, given me the biggest lessons of my life. Those are the men that I will continue to look up to and, and learn from. And I think that there's men out there like that. The other young men can aspire to be like and, and look up to and learn from and be guided by.

17 (26m 13s):
But I don't think Andrew Tate is the one that we should be putting up on a pedestal.

1 (26m 20s):
Today's episode was produced by Aha Artsy. It was edited by Amina Elad and engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. It was fact checked by Serena Solan. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.