0 (1s):
A year ago today when Russia invaded Ukraine, we today explained frantically, tried to find Ukrainians to tell us what they were experiencing. In a completely random stroke of luck, we reached a man named Ri Vail in Western Ukraine. Now, he didn't speak English, so that was a mess, but his niece, Yulia Lopez did, and she agreed to translate. The two of them were proud, they were defiant. They were sure Ukraine would win. And despite everything, they were also very funny. So I asked them, could we all keep in touch?

1 (34s):
My uncle says, sure. If we are still alive.

0 (38s):
Oh dear. Oh dear. Mr. VAs.

3 (1m 10s):
Hello,

4 (1m 12s):
Hello. Hello? Yeah, good morning, USA

0 (1m 15s):
<unk> Hello?

4 (1m 16s):
Oh, hello, Noel

0 (1m 18s):
Cola Paulson is a journalist himself, and he's helping us get a better quality interview than last year's shaky phone line. And Nikola, you are there with Yulia? Yes,

4 (1m 28s):
Yes, yes. Noel, I am with Yu here in Truves.

0 (1m 32s):
Mic and Yu are in Truss Covets, Ukraine. And 80 kilometers away is her uncle Cord. Vail. Hello. Just like she did a year ago, Yulia has volunteered to translate for him. Yulia, I wanna start by asking you, how are you

3 (1m 45s):
Doing? Well, today I am fine. Well, now I'm fine. But the night was not very easy because this night we had the next missile attack and it was really close to our house. So the night was rough. But now we are okay. Now we are fine.

0 (2m 5s):
What happens when a missile strikes close to your house? What do you do?

3 (2m 10s):
Well, we just get scared. We cannot do anything. You know, sometimes we can go to the corridor between the two walls if it's really dangerous, so we get safe. But in general, we have nowhere to go.

0 (2m 26s):
Yulia, how old are your children now?

3 (2m 28s):
Almost 11. Almost six and two year old.

0 (2m 32s):
And how are they doing?

3 (2m 34s):
The younger boys, they, they didn't wake up in the at night, but the girl, our daughter, she woke up at night and she got scared. Actually, she was the first one to wake up because of this really sound, loud, loud sound. That's why she got really scared. And even in the morning, she did not want to go to to school because she said, if if I go to school and there is air allow again, what, what should I do? So that's why it, sometimes it, it gets rough, but, well, we get in there.

0 (3m 14s):
I can't imagine trying to explain war to kids, frankly. What do you say?

3 (3m 19s):
The six year old, we talk to him about it a little bit. Some things in general, we try to tell him to value things that we have here, and especially to be really nice to the soldiers when he sees them outside and the streets. And sometimes he, even when he sees the soldier who came back from the war, he sometimes even wants to go to the soldier and to talk to him, ask some questions. And it, I'm, I'm really, I get excited because it's nice when children understand when children can value the situation in what we are now.

3 (4m 1s):
And one day, the six year old, he told me, you know, mom, I wanna be a military man when I grow up. And I was so surprised that some, well, I, I'm, I'm not sure if I like the idea, but at least he is not scared of them. He wants to go to them to talk to them, to ask some questions, and talking about our daughter, well, she's almost 11. She knows a lot because she goes to school, she talks to her friends, the teachers. Well, they have to explain. And sometimes we do too. We, well, not sometimes because it's everyday.

3 (4m 43s):
This is our life nowadays. So this is everyday situation. And every, every, well we, well, we have to talk about it. Well, this is, this is how it is.

0 (4m 56s):
Would you translate while I ask <unk> some questions?

3 (5m 0s):
I'll, I'll try.

0 (5m 2s):
Okay. How are you?

5 (5m 4s):
Hello.

3 (5m 8s):
Everything is fine. We are alive. And every day in the morning when we wake up and we see each other, we say hello. And when we are safe and sound, we are happy.

0 (5m 21s):
How has his life changed in the last year? What has he been doing this time?

3 (5m 35s):
My life as the life of every Ukrainian has changed. Well, of course I did my own work, my own business, and also I helped the army.

0 (5m 51s):
How is he helping the army?

3 (5m 55s):
Every single Ukrainian is in some kind of community, which is united and around gathering things for the army. Different things of, some people do gather food like humanitarian, help some people by weapons, some people by vehicles, military vehicles, drones. And this is what every single Ukrainian is doing right now. And we are united around that.

0 (6m 31s):
Yulia, I I hear your uncle saying that his life is different in the sense that he's really thrown himself into the war effort, into organizing. What's the biggest difference in your life from a year ago?

3 (6m 44s):
Well before the war, some, sometimes I thought that maybe I would love to live abroad. Maybe I would love my kids to see the world. Well, it's not bad to see the world, but I wanted them to live there, to discover the world. But now I want to travel the world, but I want to live in Ukraine. I want to stay here to raise my kids, to bring, bring them up here in my country.

0 (7m 16s):
That makes a lot of sense. I wonder, Yulia, and I'll ask your uncle this question and then I'll ask you, do you think that Ukraine is going to win this

3 (7m 25s):
War? Ukraine won this war within the first three days when Ukraine has united and could and managed to stand against. And now it's not the question if we win the war, the question is how many, how much more, how many people, soldiers, young people will die in this war? But the main idea, what my uncle is trying to tell you is that Ukraine cannot, may not, will not lose in this war.

3 (8m 14s):
If Ukraine loses the world, the whole civilization loses.

0 (8m 19s):
Yulia, what do you think about this question?

3 (8m 22s):
Well, I agree with my uncle. I don't think that it's the war only between Russia and Ukraine. So I think it's because if Ukraine loses, then the next is Europe. You

0 (8m 35s):
And your uncle both see this as a world war. It's Russia against the rest of the world. Do you think the rest of the world is paying enough attention to Ukraine?

3 (8m 45s):
Not, not enough attention.

0 (8m 47s):
Yeah, yeah. I could hear, I could hear that one without translation.

3 (8m 58s):
If to talk about this war only as the war between Russia and Ukraine, it's really dangerous because if Ukraine loses the war, it means that Russia will go further on. And I am here today while my uncle says that I am here today. I give you this, well, almost one hour of my valuable time. And I'm asking you to talk about it, not to forget that somewhere in the world, people, they die. They fight for freedom. They want to live in a free country. That's why I am asking you now to talk about it, to not to forget about it.

0 (9m 44s):
And then after that hour of <unk> and Yuli valuable time, it was time for us all to go.

3 (9m 53s):
My uncle says, he says, thank you, and he is ready to join you anytime.

0 (9m 58s):
Good. Good. What if we, what if we check in six months from today? You'll both, you'll both still. You'll both still be in Lavi. In InVivo. Blast Alive. Yeah, no, Yulia, you're always making dark jokes.

5 (10m 15s):
Excuse.

3 (10m 18s):
Six months is a really long time for Ukrainians because every time, every well evening we go to see, when we don't know, we wake up in the morning. My uncle says that maybe it's better to do it well more often.

0 (10m 32s):
How about three months? Three months is okay.

3 (10m 36s):
Well, he says, okay.

0 (10m 42s):
Coming up a year to the day after we interviewed journalist Igor Kossoff who'd come straight from sheltering in the subway. We asked where his reporting took him this past year.

6 (10m 58s):
I'm Ellie Honing host of Up Against the Mob, the Springfield crew. I was a federal prosecutor in Manhattan where I took down over 100 mobsters. And out of all my cases, nothing was as wild as the murder of Big Al Bruno. Big Al ran the mob in Springfield, Massachusetts. His murder would become our best shot at taking down the Springfield mob once and for all. But it wasn't going to be easy up against the mob, the Springfield crew from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network. Following your listening app to hear the first episode on March 1st,

0 (11m 43s):
Why don't we begin with your full name of course, and what

7 (11m 46s):
You do. Yeah, it's been a minute. I'm Igor Kaso. I'm a reporter at the Key of Independent. I covered many different topics, mostly revolving around the war. And for the past year,

0 (11m 56s):
You and I talked almost exactly a year ago. And at that time, I remember you had just come up above ground. You'd been sheltering in the subway station.

8 (12m 7s):
I had to stop by my apartment, but I was earlier taking shelter at a, in a subway station because there was a threat, a credible threat of possible bombing of ki.

0 (12m 23s):
What has life been like since then? For the last

7 (12m 25s):
Year? What's, thanks for leading off with a short and easy to answer question. No, but seriously, at first it was a bit tense. Everyone was trying to get out of the city to western Ukraine. Some were going to Europe, people were sheltering or some people were staying put. When the battle of Kyiv started, the war opened up, as we know, with the paratrooper attacks on hostel airport near Kyiv. And they were supposed to kill the leadership secure Kiev. And then the, the rest of the troops were supposed to roll in and occupy the

9 (12m 57s):
Country. A senior lieutenant who goes by Starsky, was one of the defenders and says, Russia attacked with 34 helicopters. Ukraine shot some down, but not all. And so the Ukrainian commanders shelled the runway to prevent the invasion, force of airborne troops from landing. Well, I think that's the

7 (13m 15s):
Spearhead attack immediately failed. And then the sort of the grinding more started. And during that time, Kiev's population was down to half. Everything was kind of closed except Dels and supermarkets rather and pharmacies. And life was pretty tense. There was explosions in the distance all the time. But people were just kind of like, I imagined the Brits in World War ii. There was a lot of keeping calm and carrying on going on that I saw then the Russians got out. There was a brief rejoicing until, until everyone saw what they left in butcher. You know,

10 (13m 56s):
Their bodies lie, face up, hands bound mouths contorted, the men all allegedly killed by Russian soldiers. These bodies are now being taken away for burial. An official involved in the process said that over the past few weeks here in Butcher, he's found around 300 bodies. He said about 30% of them were women and children. And he believes that more are going to be found.

7 (14m 23s):
But after that life in Kiev region got back to normal and the summer, you could almost think that there was no war going on at all since all the action was concentrated in Dunas. We sort of got back to the early days when Russia started, decided that it's gonna use missiles and drones to destroy the power plants and the energy infrastructure. And we started getting missile attacks and drone attacks every week, every two weeks,

12 (14m 48s):
Russia has ruthlessly been targeting Ukraine's energy grid that is being accused of weaponizing winter by plunging huge parts of the country into cold and darkness.

7 (14m 59s):
People also kind of started off by taking shelter, but after a while it's just, you know, there's just, it takes too much out of your day. You gotta get things done. People just walking around, delivering food, driving. I don't even take shelter. I just keep working. Huh. Yeah, I mean I used to sit in the hallway in the first couple of months, but now I'm just sort of, you know, that's just officially, I wouldn't recommend that to people, but this is just how life is here. Everyone's just tired of it and used to it and yeah, missiles kill people and that's just something people have gotten used to.

0 (15m 34s):
You spent time reporting on volunteers in Kyiv. Can you tell me about

7 (15m 39s):
That? I was monitoring the crossing from where the Russians were. Ukrainian forces are holding them back. Ukrainians were trickling across and Russians sometimes hit them, or the artillery, this guy shows up, just swerves up on this old silver van, you know, jumps out and yells, I need a medic. So I jogged over to one of the soldiers, they got a medic. There were two bodies in there. I helped him carry, one of them was a friend of the, the guy that I met. So we started talking and then R he told me that him and his friend Andre go to the areas that have not fully been liberated and they evacuate people, bringing them into Kiev, which was very safe, kind of a fortress. So I decided to go with them on one of their daily missions and it was one of the most incredible things I've ever experienced.

7 (16m 25s):
We evacuated a bunch of people and pets. We got into some misadventures that day. It was probably, from their point of view, was boring cuz not, we didn't get, I mean we got murdered once. And from their point of view it was pretty boring. But from my point of view, it was, I saw everything. It was like the humor, the, the pain, the destruction, the, the hope, the quiet grace and the nobility, the defiance. I saw all of that. And that was just one example. I saw volunteers who held together during occupation. They fed people, they kept getting harassed by the Russians who were in charge. Yeah, there was a lot of that going around.

0 (17m 6s):
Listen, I wanna ask you about what you saw in ha because I know you wrote a big piece about these detention centers and what happened in them. Can you talk to me about what you witnessed there and, and what people who you spoke to told you had happened?

7 (17m 19s):
It was like this pretrial detention center. It was a jail, basically. Ukrainian police held alleged criminals there. Then they went to court and this was converted into a detention center for suspected collaborators, gorillas, spies, it's, you know, all this stuff. I spoke to people who were detained there. There were these various cells with doors on them instead of bars. Pretty dingy place. And people said that there were screaming coming from it. Every day there were children nearby. Oh yeah. So the children are like, oh yeah, we heard screaming all the time. Like the people on the other cells are like, yeah, when we heard the screaming, we couldn't really eat the food. It was, it was hard to eat.

7 (17m 59s):
The types of interrogation under tortured that I heard about personally was electric shock. That was a popular one. Two guys I talked to, they were shocked. And one of them has concentration problems. Now. There were some beatings just, you know, generic beatings, basically dark dingy place. You get taken in, you were held there until they checked out your stuff. Many people then later got released. They would drive them somewhere, dump them out, tell them to count to 30, and then only then they could remove the hood from their head and try to get home, figure out where they are.

0 (18m 30s):
What were these people accused of? Why were they in detention centers? The Russians believed they had done what

7 (18m 35s):
If you're trying to maintain control of a population that hates you. And many of them might be saboteurs or spying on you for the Ukrainian military. And some of them are even doing more hardcore things like transporting weapons, maybe assassinating people, maybe giving coordinates of important targets. You're gonna be paranoid and you're gonna be always on the hunt for gorillas and spies that are helping the Ukrainian armed forces. And there were a lot of such people there and many of them were unfortunately caught and tortured. I did a story in December from November to December. I talked to a couple of people who did this kind of underground resistance work. It was very clandestine in cells.

7 (19m 16s):
It was horrifying. I wouldn't be able to do that. You need an unbreakable spinal cord, I would think, to do that kind of work.

0 (19m 24s):
You know that the US government recently said that Russia has committed war crimes in Ukraine.

13 (19m 29s):
We have examined the evidence and there is no doubt these are crimes against humanity.

0 (19m 41s):
In your reporting, did you see evidence of what we would consider to be war crimes?

7 (19m 45s):
Yeah, I saw bodies piled into, you know, little piles. One of them had been set in fire. I've seen, I've, I've interviewed people of civilians whose loved ones were just shot for either for no reason or because they were deemed a threat or just because they were at the wrong place at the wrong time. Thousands and thousands of children have been forcibly taken from their families deported to Russia and placed with foster families. There. Other Ukrainian adults have also been forcibly sent to Russia. That's a war crime.

0 (20m 19s):
What do you expect next?

7 (20m 22s):
I would say the, the offensive is already underway. You could see the casualty numbers coming out of the nets and Luhan golis, but that's their thing right now. They're, they're really trying their best to take those two regions to the borders. And after that, I'm not sure, but they're gonna have extreme trouble with this because even though a lot of Ukrainian troops are, are gonna die, will be willing to bet that even more Russian forces are going to die and lose their equipment. And it's just gonna be horrific sort of meat grinder type of situation.

0 (20m 56s):
I hear you saying this war is just gonna keep going the way it has gone. Meat grinder is one of those awful terms that we've heard applied to this situation from the beginning. And the push and pull of Ukrainian Russian forces is something we've been aware of from the beginning. Nothing's better is what I hear you saying. You don't expect anything to get better.

7 (21m 12s):
Well, what do you mean better?

0 (21m 14s):
I mean, I think that when this war started, there was a sense that, you know, for a while in the beginning it was like Russia did not take kyiv. Ukraine can win. But then as the casualties mounted, as the evidence of torture mounted as the children, as you said, I mean children being displaced, horrible things happening to kids. I I guess you look for some sense after a year that things might be moving in a more definitive direction. And I don't hear you saying that they are,

7 (21m 40s):
We can't say, if I were to make a guess, I would say that the war will not end in 2023 cuz Russia really won't give it up and now they can't give it up. Cuz it would be absolutely humiliating to acknowledge some kind of defeat. I don't think it's gonna end in this year. Russia's gonna keep trying there. There's another wave of mobilization possibly going on, possibly about to be announced. The fact that they didn't take kyiv, that was sort of the death of their ambition to take over the whole country. So now they can only take part of the country, but that's still unacceptable. So Ukraine definitely can still win. It's, it's highly possible that with more support, that Ukraine will be able to wreak havoc in Crimea even.

7 (22m 25s):
And Ukraine can win absolutely. But the the damage has been colossal. And the question is, how much more damage is there gonna be in human lives, in cities destroyed infrastructure, buildings, livelihoods, human lives, economy, and how much it's gonna cost to then fix that all up? Everyone realizes that it's not gonna be a quick victory, it's gonna be long, it's gonna be messy, and I'm just gonna have to go through it.

0 (23m 12s):
That song is sung by Ukrainian refugees. Now staying in Vilnius Lithuania. We had production help on today's show from Macola Poon. Today's episode was produced by Victoria Chamberlain and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by Paul Robert Moundy and fact checked by Laura Buller. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.