1 (0s):
If you're going to go for a cloud business system, why not go for the number one Cloud business system. That's netsuite by Oracle netsuite surveyed hundreds of Business Leaders and assembled A playbook of the top strategies as America reopens for business receive your free guide seven actions businesses need to take now and schedule your free product tour and netsuite.com explained that's netsuite.com explained. Wolf long day today, let me sit down and relax and watch some television.

2 (39s):
The president said that he was designating antifa as a terrorist organization the question with looters ransacking businesses and torching cars and buildings. President. Trump has vowed to take action and designate anti-fog as a terrorist organization. What I do know is that and see if it's the very

1 (56s):
definition of domestic terrorism. Hmm. I wonder if this All is just antifa plot Kathleen not know what well, who's that? Who's that who's voice is that is your friends a peach of a box senior correspondent host of the world about gasps, you know all of this which is why you're losing me your head so I can explain and even of you Zack. I haven't seen you since we used to work in the office together, but I can I can just Channel you in my head. That's correct. The memory of the before times is so strong so So imprinted in your brain that when you're confused about something I come back to help explain to you why you're confused and don't really understand.

1 (1m 39s):
I showed up and Bam exclamations. Perfect. This is like when they give you a Blazer after you host five episodes of Saturday Night Live, you sound kind of weird though. Can we just like have you sound normal? It's ready. I can just join you on the couch. If you want nice. Let me mute the TV for a second here. So help me work. Through this antifa business. The president is right now blaming and Teeth of for the vandalism and for turning the peaceful protests against police brutality less peaceful. Like it's all on antifa in his eyes. Is that right? That is correct that it's possible. They've done some of it.

1 (2m 20s):
It's plausible that they've done some of it but there's no hard evidence to suggest that that's actually what's happening. What even is antifa again like it. Do they have a website or a newsletter? Sure that I can read. No, they don't and understanding what antifa is requires going back to the 1930s. Whoa, because that's where the idea came from. So the very first iteration of what we now call antifa was a German organization called antifascist action. I'm pronouncing an English accent because I'm going to butcher the German or at least your mental projection would Sean yeah. Your German is not very good 9, this is just a testament to your mental limitations this Station was designed to be a street-level counterpart to the Nazi organizations that were dominating street brawls at the time in late Weimar Germany and they became an inspiration afterwards to a variety of different other groups who wanted to oppose the rise of fascism and far-right movements in the west.

1 (3m 24s):
The basic idea was that if you had been able to more aggressively confront the Nazis on the eat and use Force to prevent them from showing up in public. Maybe they wouldn't have been able to rise as powerfully and prominently in German politics in the 1930s as they did where else so you saw this a lot in the particular growth of it starting in Europe and in the United Kingdom in the 70s and 80s. So Germany and the UK, I'd say would be the key places where the started and it started in centered around the punk movement the punk movement. Yeah. Yeah the punk music movement.

2 (4m 2s):
Like Anarchy in the UK exactly like that exactly like the Sex Pistols.

1 (4m 19s):
And Tifa is designed essentially as one scholar. I read put it as a kind of anarchist alternative to the police to get out the fascists. Right? So you're at a punk show and you need to get rid of neo-nazis. You don't want them there. You don't you think they endanger the people who are participating. You think they're spreading bad ideas in your left wing spaces. And you don't want to call the cops because you hate the cops. And so what do you do you have these group of individuals who are willing to beat up the neo-nazis or forcibly throw them out. So the kind of direct action that antifa is willing to use and they have a variety of different tactics that they do. They're not just about fighting people but that is a key part of their ideology what they call pre-emptive self-defense.

1 (5m 3s):
You need to beat up the Nazis before they can get in a position where they have enough power and enough adherence to beat you up. Pre-emptive self-defense is that just like could that just be you know aggression, you know the question of whether that's justifiable in the terms that you're asking. It's actually quite complicated right? Because a lot of times when they would fight and engage in brawls with these people. They weren't actually being violent that is to say that the far-right movement. They were just there trying to be at the punk show or trying to talk to people about their ideas. And so Depending on how you understand the nature of these far-right movements.

1 (5m 46s):
You could say Well, they're just beating up people who are talking that seems ridiculous. That's that's obviously just a way of getting out aggression and feeling good about it because you're beating up people. You don't like the other way to spin it is, you know, the more neo-nazis. There are in the more openly they can act the more unsafe our spaces become for minorities for choose for LGBT individuals and if we want to make this, This safe and open inclusive space for all different kinds of people the people who want to hurt vulnerable groups, they got to go and we got to do whatever we can to get them out. So how does this go from sort of anti-nazi thing in the 1930s to a punk thing in the UK in the 80s to to what we see the president constantly bashing now and 2020 starting around the Eat 2000s 2010's American started to embrace the antifa label as a just an abbreviation for antifascist action or anti-fascist and it became this kind of diffuse movement that you saw in different places around the country.

1 (6m 56s):
There is no Central organization. There are there is one network that kind of tries to connect them to each other but it's not there's no command and control structure this just a bunch of people who understand themselves to be part of this

2 (7m 9s):
Movement. We see I thought odds of engaging in self defense from groups who want to do our community harm whose ideology is the ideology of genocide and mass murder.

1 (7m 18s):
It's unclear. How many there are there are hubs in certain places like Portland where they're more popular but on the whole just a bunch of people who describe themselves as antifa and were initially Affiliated or involved in the punk scene, but it sort of grew beyond that and then you get the rise of the alt-right and Donald Trump in 2015, and that's the key. Factor in transforming the way we understand antifa socially from a totally Fringe movement to something that people actually know about who aren't involved in these sort of subcultural spaces. So this is during like the Trump campaign.

1 (7m 58s):
Yeah, because you started to see an active alt-right presence publicly of people like Richard Spencer the famous quote unquote Dapper or white supremacists who got these semi friend. We appearances in mainstream media and got to go on television and stuff like that to be white is to be a striver a crusader an Explorer and a conqueror. We build we produce we go upward and we recognize the central why of American race relations. We don't exploit other groups. We we don't gain anything from their presence.

1 (8m 39s):
They need us and not the other.

2 (8m 41s):
Their

1 (8m 41s):
way around and you see that and if your antifa right again remember that their whole idea is that you needed to stop the Nazis with Force first before they could build up legitimate sources of power and become part of the political system. So they see that and they're like, oh my God, we got to do something about this and they start organizing and turning out to contest public spaces where people like Richard Spencer showing up and then when Trump wins the election so many people are scared hurt angry confused. Used and concerned about a Descent of United States and outright fascism. You start seeing an increase in individual interest in the antifa movement and that all comes to a head and Trump's inauguration when an unidentified antifa member punches Richard Spencer the white supremacists in the face.

2 (9m 32s):
It's peppe's become kind of assembled. Remember that was that that video that you always see it's been slowed down and everything. Yeah and and put over. Music to a lot of different totally

1 (9m 48s):
and you saw mean stream figures being like this is kind of awesome. Like maybe you should punch the Nazis and that kind of mainstream legitimacy and recognition took antifa from something that just wasn't totally in the fringes to something that more and more people knew about but the thing I wonder about is like is that just a guy punching a Nazi because Nazis aren't that popular or was it? A guy who feels that he is a member of a organized group called and Tifa punching a Nazi man. We're getting into a tricky definitional territory here. But like basically the way that we should think about this is that it's kind of both.

1 (10m 29s):
There are a lot of people who can understand and see themselves as being antifa who are operating in any individual space, but who aren't, you know, formally identify the part of a movement or acting on its orders. It doesn't really work. Way right you put on a mask. And you say I'm antifa. Then you're our kind of antifa person. If you are somebody who's involved in your local antifa. For example, Rose City antifa and Portland then, you know, you're you're you're operating within a kind of institutional structure, but you're not going around punching Richard Spencer on orders from somebody else. It's not like there's an antifa Commander sitting in a bunker being like

2 (11m 6s):
we've identified Richard Spencer. We have a go order. We have a go order

1 (11m 10s):
it's not Like that, it's just random people being on the street trying to act in a way that they think is consistent with their values. Which brings us back to this idea that it's hard to Define antifa, right? Yeah. I mean, they're like the the quote-unquote distinctive and Tifa looks that you sometimes see is more generally a look associated with black Bloc Anarchist demonstrators who are different, right, you know the sort of all black dress the face masks and that's a very particular kind of anarchist demonstration. That's not necessarily employed by antifa. So you can get into this very technical definitional thing where you've got people dressed in all black, you know, a bandana over their face breaking windows at a Starbucks or whatever and people are like, that's antifa and well, yeah, it could be antifa, but it also could be somebody who is not part of it into your organization doesn't see them as such but is engaged in a similar kind of protests and demonstrations.

1 (12m 11s):
Action that might mark them as a sharing similar ideology, even if they are not technically or in terms of self-identification and antifa person. It's quite complicated. I really want to entangle this a little bit more but I need to make a quick pit stop. I know you're in my subconscious, but can you like hang out here on the couch and I'll be right back? No, I'm going to go with you. It's because I'm part of your brain. Like I know it's gonna be awkward, but you're just going to have to push past it. This is gonna be fun. Okay, great. Let's go. We'll be right back. Imagine a world in which you and your business Potter Francine are sitting in the office six feet apart thinking about your financials HR inventory e-commerce and more and just thinking Hmm Francine.

1 (13m 5s):
I wish you had more visibility more control. Well netsuite from Oracle might be the answer for you whether you're doing a million or hundreds of millions in Sales, netsuite lets you manage. Every penny with Precision. You'll have the agility to compete with anyone work from anywhere and run your whole company right from your phone. Join Over 20,000 companies who trusts netsuite to make it all happen netsuite as does new guide. I told you about in the top of the show, you can get it for free. It's called seven actions businesses need to take now and you can schedule your free product tour.

1 (13m 48s):
Or at netsuite.com explained that is netsuite to.com slash explained.

2 (13m 57s):
I'm Sally Greenberg executive director of the national consumers League last year MCL launched consumers for safe CBD in response to the proliferation of untested unregulated CBD products in the marketplace as we all navigate a new normal and it's the covid-19 crisis We are continuing our efforts to help keep you safe and informed there are unfortunately a number of unscrupulous CBD manufacturers and stores that falsely promote medical benefits of CBD products many are taking Bandage of consumers fear and anxiety during this crisis claiming CD can help boost immunity against and even treat covid-19. We need the FDA to stop those making false medical claims and encourage further testing of CBD to a we made during science based treatments to Consumers.

2 (14m 44s):
Learn more at for safe CBD dot-org. Again. That's the number for sa Fe CBD dot o-- r-- g-- paid for by the national consumers League 20 seconds A look at in this is the time.

2 (15m 31s):
We look to our leader. We want this to

1 (15m 34s):
stop Zach Zach. Are you still there? Yep. I am I'm here. Now that your brain has been turned back on ready to answer your questions about all the Fox News even

2 (15m 45s):
watching President Trump is bound to take action and designate anti-fog as

1 (15m 49s):
a terrorist organization Dana one, so they said on the news that the president's gonna designate antifa a terrorist organization. Is that a thing he can do? No that's stupid. Like you can't do that. The reason why is the president has the power to designate foreign terrorist organizations as terrorist groups. That's what he is legally and statutorily empowered to do antifa is not a foreign terrorist organization, even though it started in Germany in the 1930s. Well because it's an organization like that. It's not like there's an antifa compound in Berlin where they're sending out orders to America. It's entirely a bunch of people here, who are For art given operating under a direct order or command and control structure, which is the other problem with it.

1 (16m 34s):
When it's Al Qaeda or Isis you can be like well, yeah, there's an organization here that we can declare a terrorist organization, but when it comes to antifa, there's no structure that one could sanction like that are you doesn't even make sense to speak of them as being any sort of unified organization called antifa. There are just different antifa branches and individuals who see themselves as participating in it. So it's it's not foreign in the way that it operates because it's entirely decentralized and domestic when the FBI has investigated domestic terrorism cases and organizations. They tend to apply an organized-crime model, huh? So if you're going into like a white nationalist group like the KKK, yeah, like the KKK or or more violent one.

1 (17m 19s):
Let's say like the base and Adam wathan which are two new and recent extremely murderous white nationalist group when the FBI looks at groups. thus they approach them like they're approaching the mafia because there isn't exactly a legal framework for purely domestic terrorist groups, right and the legal tools that one might need to deal with this kind of thing are encapsulated in the powers available for dealing with organized crime the same thing, right you've got an organized group of people who are conspiring to commit a pattern or series of violent and dangerous actions inside the US and so If even if any logically there different structurally, you don't need different legal powers to address them.

1 (18m 6s):
So there's no kind of domestic terrorist designation for that reason. So you're saying just to be clear that the president can't even designate this group a terrorist organization. Like that's not even within the realm of his power. I mean he can do whatever he wants. He can tweet and Tifa is a terrorist organization or knowing tripodi antifa terrorist organization 10 exclamation points. But he can't do anything beyond that. There's no formal legal structure that would allow them to be like now in teeth are terrorists and the police should arrest them. So why is he going after antifa? Well, that's because for the past few years and Tifa has become a kind of right-wing Boogeyman it started with that Richard Spencer thing that we were talking about early on at Trump's inauguration punching a very famous white nationalist, but it really escalated after

2 (18m 56s):
Charlotte's all Virginia a white nationalist rally that descended into deadly violence and Chaos the images just coming in a car plowing into a crowd of demonstrators victims grown in the air one woman dead others critically

1 (19m 13s):
wounded. So during the Charlottesville protests white nationalist rally violence Etc. There was a pretty significant antifa protest because this is of course the type of event that they would go to based on the way they understand themselves and there they had a Interesting role on the one hand, there's footage and their testimonies of people saying antifa organizers and members were defending counter protesters from violent white nationalists. But I've also seen video of a very right-wing journalist and Ino and Portland's who was known to hate antifa to try to provoke them and so on went to a rally and he got beat

2 (19m 55s):
up beat, huh? No police. All seemingly by antifa people in the middle of the street and they stole my GoPro. He punched me several times in my face in my head. I'm bleeding

1 (20m 7s):
and he hates being filmed. They don't want anyone to identify them. They want to operate anonymously and so they see journalist who are filming them as a threat to their anonymity and ability to function in a regular lives and this violence became really important ideologically for the American right because it allowed you to say not that there were many fine people on both sides, but rather Are there are many violent people on both sides. Mmm that it's not just the extreme right that's become violent and dangerous in the Trump era. It's also the extreme left. It allows you to paint a degree of equivalence between these two sides. And so you have right weighing, you know, major legislators and politicians condemning them

2 (20m 49s):
Cruz today is calling for a federal investigation after protests turned violent in Portland, Oregon over the

1 (20m 55s):
weekend and Ted Cruz at the time try. To introduce legislation that would count antifa as a terrorist organization. Now you could do that legislatively it just there weren't enough votes to do it and it doesn't really make sense. But the point is that this is not a new Trump thing. It's something that has been a major focus of Fox News and of conservative legislators for very long time in an effort to say that the growing militancy in the United States is not all one-sided but rather there's a violent left that needs to be dealt with it seems sort of Dangerous to take this particular moment. And say oh that's just a bunch of antifa, like not only dismissive but potentially risky have we seen any manifestations of how dangerous it can be to just pin this entire thing on something called antifa.

1 (21m 48s):
I mean you see it in the president's rhetoric to a degree right the way that he talks about the protests he focuses primarily on the property damage and the violence that we've seen and uses it to paint and tifa's being responsible. What's happening in the United States right now?

2 (22m 5s):
The violence and vandalism is being led by antifa and other radical left-wing groups who are terrorizing the innocent destroying jobs. Hurting businesses and burning down buildings in reality what's

1 (22m 23s):
happening is that there are overwhelmingly peaceful protests that have violent members inside of them who do not Define what's happening and that the violent Dynamics are escalated by police who use disproportionate often entirely unjustified shows a force against protesters whose objectives they find threatening. So it allows you to paint this as a clash between two violent factions the police who are defending long,

2 (22m 48s):
Order

1 (22m 49s):
and antifa who's trying to tear it apart. When what's actually happening is that there's a large group of people who are calling for Justice from are early and and an end to discrimination who have some agitators inside their ranks and instead of being able to just deal with the agitators, you know arrest somebody who throws a brick or something like that the police are more justified in using broad brush tactics, like firing rubber bullets and discriminately or tear-gassing. In order to disperse crowds on grounds that the crowd itself is violent the nature of it is violent. You can't draw a straight line between calling this and antifa demonstration and a police Crackdown, but you can see how the ideology the connection helps legitimize what the cops are doing, even when it's quite clearly unjustifiable and beyond that sack.

1 (23m 41s):
I mean is this just like a straw man for the president and and the right-wing media to just avoid dealing? With the actual issue at hand here, which is a whole lot of Americans clamoring for racial Justice right now. Yeah, it's not even a straw man. Right? It's more of a boogeyman right? You gotta you gotta put up the big monster so you can defeat it and claim victory that you're defending the public from this there was never any chance that President Donald Trump was going to say, okay. There are a bunch of black people out here protesting for racial Justice. I'm going to side with the protesters are those just not what's going to happen and white people, too. Ooh, it's like the United Colors of angry America right now.

1 (24m 24s):
So you're gonna go with angry Benetton or like fiery Venice. I don't really know what the better taught is. What's the best taught? It's a clothing company. I know but why Bennett ugh, what is that? Is that a place?

2 (24m 35s):
Well, I guess I'm since I'm your brain. I don't really

1 (24m 38s):
know. This is where we fall short as you were bred. You can just tell a story right in order to justify your behaviors both to yourself and to the public. And the story that you're telling here is that they are violent rioters who need to be put down with force and if you can say well this violence is primarily being driven by an organized group. Well, that sounds a lot scarier and it sounds like something that after years of the war on terrorism in American mines justifies a more violent response. It's a more sellable and Salient narrative Zach. Thank you for hanging out with me on my couch and helping me work through this.

1 (25m 18s):
I'm your captive Sean. I can't really do anything else, but I'm happy to be here Jeanie. You're free.

2 (25m 24s):
Goodbye.