1 (10s):
It's today explained I'm Sean Rama's from it's December. The holidays are coming up. Omicron is out there. People are getting boosters and kids, kids are finally getting their shots.

2 (20s):
I was worried about the needle now, but the people that says that it was about like, you got to be a Somby or a lot of things. And I was like,

1 (30s):
That's Amber, the LAR 12 years old, seventh grade. And she's out here arguing with anti-vaxxers to

2 (36s):
You're going to be a Somby that's okay. Cause it's gonna live.

1 (41s):
Amber goes to Cramer hill elementary in Camden, New Jersey. A few months ago, we sent today explain producer miles, Brian, there to report on the return to school. And he recently went back to report on how kids are getting vaccinated miles. Remind us where we left off with Cramer hill.

3 (59s):
Right? Our first episode on Cramer hill came out in October and it was about how difficult it was for school staff to balance making up learning loss and keeping kids safe. And you might remember the episode closed on the school's principal, talking about how she thought they're only really going to get back to something approaching normal when all of the kids were able to get,

4 (1m 18s):
I really hope that by November we're feeling at like some plateau and like some predictable cadence, because the like unpredictability is a rollercoaster that I'm like ready to get off.

1 (1m 31s):
Now that you're rolling the tape. I do remember that, but, but vaccines for five to 11 year olds were not approved at the time we ran that episode that happened only in early November. You returned to Cramer hill just a few days ago. How are things looking? Are they normal-ish?

3 (1m 48s):
The short answer is no, they're not looking normal. The number of COVID cases there and the disruption caused by those cases. Those have both declined since August and September, but unfortunately the pandemic is still very much present at Cramer hill. And in part that's because the principal's goal of having most of those kids vaccinated has not happened yet. The principal figures about 20% of the middle schoolers have gotten the shot, but less than 10% of the five to 11 year olds have getting those kids signed up for the vaccine is a slow and complicated process that involves winning over nervous. Parents.

1 (2m 21s):
Tell me more, how is the school trying to win over nervous parents

3 (2m 26s):
They're hosting vaccine clinics. Having a vaccine clinic for kids during school hours has been a go-to move for school districts across the country. New York city held vaccine clinics at all of its thousand plus elementary schools in November Cramer hill held its first vaccine clinic in November, too. That was for kids 12 and up. And it's where I met Amber Kramer Hills. First vaccine clinic for five to 11 year olds was last Friday. The school closed off a conference room for the vaccinations. A local pharmacy administered the shots. There was toys for the kids who got to football, science kids, baby dolls, interested. Parents were able to get vaccinated too.

3 (3m 8s):
They got $25 gift cards, gift cards to where I think the gift cards were just those visa gift cards to anywhere gift cards to

1 (3m 14s):
Anywhere. I love it. I love it. Okay. As you were

3 (3m 18s):
A bunch of families came through on Friday, but I focused on one family, Veronica Ramirez and her children as Eva lease and Hector check 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Let me have your name, sir.

2 (3m 29s):
My name is Hector and we will be talking about my universe.

1 (3m 35s):
Hector sounds very charming. And he sounds like he's probably in that five to 11 age group.

3 (3m 40s):
Yes. Hector is in that crucial age group. He is eight years old. He's in the third grade at Cramer hill. And just to paint you a little picture, Sean, he loves squid game.

1 (3m 50s):
Wait, wait, wait, wait. What is up with parents showing their kids squid game? My buddy, Josh came over on Halloween and he was dressed up as this in a squad game costume and all these like children, actual children were walking by and being like yo squid game, squid game. What's up. And I was like, why are these kids watching squid?

3 (4m 8s):
Okay. Well, as I was about to tell you, Hector does not watch a good game. It is too violent for him, but he mostly consumes it through listening to the shows soundtrack on YouTube. Wow. Yeah. Talented performer right here.

1 (4m 28s):
I'm so excited for Hector to watch squid game when he's 40 years old.

3 (4m 32s):
Yeah. Hopefully he won't be as disappointed as I was. Hector was stoked about me interviewing him because he went into practice for his future career of being a YouTuber.

2 (4m 43s):
That is it for the day. Folks.

3 (4m 48s):
I don't know if you caught that, but he said, and cut. He did that to close all of our scenes.

1 (4m 53s):
Wow. I hope this feature on our podcast is like a great start to his career as a YouTuber. How has heck feeling about getting the shot?

3 (5m 1s):
Hector was nervous, But you know, Shawn, he figured it was going to be worth it. Hector does not want to lose his sense of smell or taste. And he really doesn't want to have to quarantine a Cramer hill vaccinated kids that come into close contact with someone who has COVID are allowed to come back to school. But unvaccinated kids have to stay home for two weeks.

2 (5m 21s):
The reason why I want to tape this. So I don't have to stay away from my friends, my cheaters, my BFFs,

3 (5m 31s):
Ultimately though Hector is getting the vaccine for the same reason. Any kid does anything other than eat candy or listen to squid game music on YouTube. His mom told him too nice.

1 (5m 41s):
I mean, this must be music to the ears of like the schools, teachers and administrators.

3 (5m 47s):
It absolutely is. You probably remember Kramer hill principal, Jesse <em></em>

2 (5m 52s):
For breakfast, lunch,

3 (5m 55s):
Early thirties, very poised. Whereas a lot of jumpsuits. How does she feel about squid game? You know, I don't know. I haven't asked her, but I don't get the sense. She's watching a lot of TV. She's one of these people that's just like fantastically dedicated to her job. And she told us in our last Cramer hill episode that when school started, you know, she had this huge task ahead of her because a lot of kids who were already struggling before the pandemic had fallen multiple grades behind. And you know, that was true nationally as well. The most vulnerable kids had been hit hardest by a year and a half of mostly remote learning. But the good news is that most of those kids at Cramer hill have made up a ton of ground since the school year started. They may not be at grade level, but now they're only maybe one grade behind instead of two or three.

3 (6m 37s):
So what we're

4 (6m 38s):
Seeing is that kids like bounce back.

1 (6m 41s):
Well, that's great news. Does she know why kids are just bouncing back?

3 (6m 46s):
Yeah. She has a pretty strong sense that it's due to one reason in particular and this should probably not be surprising to anyone, but it's that kids are back in the classroom

4 (6m 54s):
Being surrounded by four walls, using a pencil and paper to respond and do arithmetic, or even like write out an essay and then, you know, answer it and type it up is a great step. You also ran in an encouraging space that is quiet and conducive to learning. And you're able to really like be your best academics

3 (7m 16s):
Itself. And vaccination is key to keeping this momentum going. Every time a kid gets sick and they, and their close contacts have to go home and quarantine for two weeks, they miss a ton. And unfortunately that does continue to happen. The whole school had to shut down for two days the week of Thanksgiving because they had so many COVID cases.

1 (7m 35s):
Okay. So if this weren't already high stakes, it certainly is after you have to shut down the school for two days, the week of Thanksgiving because of rampant COVID cases, how is principal gives Mondi talking to parents about getting kids vaccinated?

3 (7m 49s):
You know, Cramer hill does not actually track the vaccine status of kids or their parents. Huh? But it comes up when gives Montes, calling parents to tell them their kid was exposed to COVID

4 (7m 59s):
And parents' voices. When I call them and say, oh, you're the big brother is vaccinated. They don't need to stay home. Or like, I'll go a step further. And I'll say to a parent, like if they were vaccinated, they wouldn't have to do this as a factual piece of information that maybe would be helpful to them.

3 (8m 16s):
So she's maybe not making a super aggressive argument with those parents trying to convince them to get vaccinated, but she does a lot of gentle nudging. And

1 (8m 25s):
How was that received by the parents? Did you talk to any criminal parents about

3 (8m 28s):
This? I did. I did get to talk to a Cramer hill parent. It was actually Hector's mom, Veronica. Veronica is 44. She works for the Camden city schools. And she showed up at Cramer hill on Friday because she was actually getting her first COVID 19 vaccine as well.

1 (8m 44s):
Why was she waiting so long?

3 (8m 46s):
Yeah, I asked her that and you know, she said she was nervous. She was still nervous on Friday morning,

4 (8m 51s):
Like needles and just worried about the side effects early

1 (8m 55s):
On. When like, are people going to be afraid of needles was sort of like a joke reasons not to get the vaccine. I feel like it's the underrated reason people.

3 (9m 2s):
I really hate needles. Children hate needles, adults, hate needles, Veronica hates needles, Veronica doesn't like needles. And then she also talked about the side effects and the side effects she was referring to are the actual documented COVID-19 vaccine side effects, getting a fever or body aches and getting laid out for a day or more. Veronica told me she can't really afford to get sick ever.

5 (9m 25s):
I was just worried about my health because you know, my three kids, you know, I'm a single mother, so I will be, you know, afraid of who would be there to take care of

3 (9m 35s):
The family actually already had COVID back in April. Fortunately, nobody got really sick, but it was still a massive inconvenience, but even so Veronica was also a little skeptical of the vaccines effectiveness. She mentioned to me seeing people on the news who died of COVID after being vaccinated. And I guess I should point out here that the COVID vaccines are very protective against serious illness.

1 (9m 58s):
What finally pushed Veronica over the edge though? What, what made her come to Cramer hill on Friday and get the shot at long last?

3 (10m 5s):
Yeah, I was super curious about that too. After all of these months, why do it that day? Why do it on Friday? And Veronica told me it wasn't one big thing. So much as a bunch of things, the new COVID variant Omicron that definitely freaked her out. And she's also seen some people in her community get really sick with COVID.

5 (10m 23s):
I had a very dear friend, she was in the hospital with COVID I would say maybe three months. So, you know, that kind of worried me

3 (10m 33s):
And more and more people in Veronica's life have gotten the vaccine and had a good experience. And finally, and maybe this is the most important part. The setting was right. You know, Veronica loves and trusts Cramer hill. So the opportunity to get vaccinated there, that was really meaningful for her. That's what led her to want to get vaccinated on Friday and to sign up for three kids,

5 (10m 55s):
I have to go take them to a drive-thru unfamiliar place to them. You know, they're here at their own school. They feel comfortable. I think that's the best idea any school could have.

3 (11m 6s):
And that's actually not all of it. Veronica's mom wanna also showed up. She was getting her second shot. She got her first one at Cramer hill in November. Nice.

1 (11m 14s):
You know, it's sort of refreshing to hear that people can still be convinced. I think so much of the antagonism on this issue has created this sort of binary in our minds of people who are like waiting in line for a booster. It can't wait to get, you know, their third shot versus people who are just extremely anti-vax and refusing to ever get the shot. But there are people who are still out there waiting to be convinced. Right? Yeah.

3 (11m 42s):
I was thinking about the same things after spending time with Veronica and her family. She's someone who very much believes in COVID she's careful she's worried about it, but she was also wary about the vaccines. And that's actually a common sentiment, especially for parents, a Kaiser health news survey from October found only about a quarter of parents wanted to get their kids vaccinated right away. Many of them have adopted a wait and see approach Franek has path to getting her and her kids vaccinated, involved, waiting, and seeing other people take the vaccine and a trusted messenger in her kids' school. So, you know, the lessons of her experience, it seems to me is that school administrators and officials hoping to get kids vaccinated will need a lot of time and patience and to accept the fact that there's no one size fits all approach.

3 (12m 29s):
Hmm. Okay.

1 (12m 29s):
Okay. I like that for Veronica, but let's talk about the kids again. They're the reason for the season, her kid, Hector hates needles. How did it go for the young filmmaker?

3 (12m 38s):
Yeah. Hector and his sisters and his mom and his grandma. They all got vaccinated together in this little conference room in Cramer hill. They very kindly let me hang out and record it. Hector was nervous. He was holding this stuffed doll. It was her money from Harry Potter.

2 (12m 53s):
I'm not ready for this, but I have to squeezing so hard to take our totality.

3 (13m 4s):
But the whole thing, you know, it was over before it even began. It took about five minutes for the whole family to get vaccinated. Afterwards, kids got stickers and toys and the adults got those $25 gift cards, the visa ones that go anywhere, the visa ones that go anywhere. Do you have any, you know, message to other families that have been thinking about it, but haven't quite committed to it yet.

5 (13m 24s):
I guess, you know, it's okay to feel nervous, but it's better and safe for your

3 (13m 29s):
Even Hector said in the end, it wasn't so bad.

2 (13m 33s):
I feel okay, but I don't like needles,

3 (13m 37s):
But you did it. And cut,

2 (13m 42s):
Cut

3 (13m 47s):
About 80 children and parents got vaccinated last Friday at Cramer hill. Most of those were day of signups and walk-ins the combination of the toy and the gift card giveaways, the inconvenience of having to keep kids home for quarantine and the trust that many in the community seem to have for Cramer hill ended up being enough to convince them a lot of parents to get themselves and their kids faxed gives Mondi. The principal says she's hoping to hold a similar vaccine clinic at the school every month, but at the end of the school year,

4 (14m 17s):
That rate continues for the next seven months of our school year until June by next school year, we'll have above 75% of our student population vaccinated, which combined with our staff rates would make it a place where herd immunity exists.

1 (14m 47s):
We got to do a message from our sponsor, but once we get back, we're going to talk about how vaccinating kids looks across the rest of the country. It's today explained Support for the show. Today comes from imperfect foods. You know, when it's like snowing in the winter and you look up at the sky and you Marvel at how just every last snowflake is a little different imperfect foods is trying to do that.

1 (15m 31s):
But with food, they want to bring you groceries that embrace fruits and veggies of every shape, size, and vibe, even, you know, because once you chop it all up and throw it in your, your salad or your pasta or your Curry or whatever the heck it is, you're, you're making your goulash. It doesn't really matter what that vegetable or fruit looked like. And that's their whole point. They're going to bring you all the food in an effort to keep groceries and food, buying more sustainable and to reduce waste right now in perfect foods. For a limited time is going to give you 20% off plus free shipping on your first order. When you go to imperfect foods.com and use explained 20 to sign up, that is 20% off plus free shipping@imperfectfoods.com with the offer code explained 20.

6 (16m 21s):
Are you curious about crypto? If you've thought about entering the world of cryptocurrency, but felt a little overwhelmed Coinbase makes learning to buy and sell simple. If you've been looking to level up your financial portfolio, here's a tip. It's always good to diversify. Why not think about cryptocurrency backed by the world's leading investors? Coinbase keeps your portfolio safe and secure while adding crypto into your mix. Coinbase offers a trusted and easy to use platform to buy, sell, and spend cryptocurrency. They support the most popular digital currencies on the market and make them accessible to everyone. Millions of people in over 100 countries, trust Coinbase with their digital assets, whether you're looking to diversify, just getting started or searching for a better way to access crypto markets.

6 (17m 8s):
Start today with Coinbase, sign up at coinbase.com/explained for $10 in free Bitcoin. This offers for a limited time only. So be sure to sign up today for a limited time at new users can get $10 in free Bitcoin. When you sign up today at coinbase.com/explained

1 (17m 38s):
On yet cabinets, education reporter at NPR, we just heard about one schools uphill battle to get its kids vaccinated. How does that story miles brought us stack up with the rest of the country.

8 (17m 50s):
So the latest data I've seen from the CDC says about 17% of five to 11 year olds have gotten at least one shot of a COVID-19 vaccine. Of course, that's going to vary widely by location. Vermont is way up there around 45% and Mississippi is more like 4%.

1 (18m 6s):
Those numbers seem low, obviously. Is, is it just because we only recently authorized vaccines for kids? Or is there something else going on here?

8 (18m 15s):
No, I think the timeline is part of it. I think there's been a lot of conversation about how COVID is less dangerous for children, which is true. However, you know, you also have to hold in your head that the vaccine is much less dangerous than getting COVID. So, you know, there's really no reason not to get the vaccine from a risk perspective, but specifically for kids, this vaccine rollouts coming at a time when the anti-vaccination movement is stronger than it's been in many decades,

1 (18m 42s):
Biden has ordered employers to make sure workers are vaccinated though. You know, courts are now holding that up. Is there a kid's mandate on the table anywhere

8 (18m 54s):
There is, and it takes a couple of different forms. San Francisco, as well as most recently, New York city have decided to include children five to 11 in their vaccine mandate, which is for kind of like voluntary indoor activities. So if you want to sit inside a restaurant, you want to go to a gym entertainment venue, like a concert or a Broadway show. You need to show your vaccine card, your vaccine pass. And that's now been adopted for children as well.

9 (19m 22s):
This is something that's going to keep kids safe and family safe. Go get your child vaccinated so long as they've gotten that first dose by December 14th, they can continue to participate indoor dining entertainment, all of these great things.

8 (19m 35s):
The school vaccine mandate is really different because kids are required by law to go to school, right? So in California, governor Gavin Newsome kind of went out ahead and ordering the COVID-19 vaccine, be on the list of required vaccines for every school kid. Once he gets final approval from the FDA,

10 (19m 54s):
We want to end this pandemic. We are all exhausted by it. And the purpose of this is to continue to lead. And that's,

8 (20m 2s):
I believe ELA, USC, San Diego public schools have also passed their own COVID vaccine mandates for kids. There's also kind of a softer way of introducing this. So when you look at like the indoor vaccine mandate, that's like in theory, this is a voluntary activity, right? You don't have to go to a restaurant similarly, across many different states. They are putting in vaccine mandates for school athletes. So you don't have to play sports, but if you want to play sports, you need to get your vaccine. And this is kind of a way to start the ball rolling. I have also heard school leaders say, you know, the, the football players are admired by other students. And so if they get their vaccine, maybe this will start a trend

5 (20m 42s):
Vaccinated.

11 (20m 45s):
Hey, Lou, vaccinated, vaccinated.

1 (20m 54s):
But of course these mandates for kids are getting pushed back.

8 (20m 58s):
Yes, they are. There are organized groups that are against vaccine mandates, especially for kids.

12 (21m 3s):
Parents gathered outside LA USDA's district office today to let administrators know how they feel about

8 (21m 9s):
Got the mandate that there are protests. There have been lawsuits. We have to

13 (21m 12s):
Fight back. We have to stand up for our children. We have to stand up for.

1 (21m 16s):
Hmm. Are there science-based reasons to be hesitant about mandating vaccines for kids? Obviously the reason these vaccines weren't authorized for kids is because they were spending more time to make sure they'd be

8 (21m 28s):
One of the reasons it took longer to get the data back for kids. Was that actually serious complications of COVID are so rare in children that it took longer. You kind of needed to look at more kids over more time to even establish the efficacy of the vaccine. If that makes sense, because there were so few kids, even who weren't getting the vaccine who were getting hospitalized or having bad outcomes. So, you know, if you looked very narrowly only at the risk of the children themselves, some would argue, they would rather kind of take their chances without the shot. That's obviously not what the CDC says. They say, you know, the, the shot is way safer than, than the chance of getting COVID. And there's also a reason that some authorities are saying we shouldn't mandate a vaccine that hasn't been fully approved by the FDA.

8 (22m 11s):
That's still under emergency use authorization,

1 (22m 13s):
But obviously making kids get vaccinated to go to school is not a new idea. Right. Is there any recent precedent for a vaccine mandate? Yeah,

8 (22m 23s):
I have most recently. And you know, you may not know this. If you've been out of school for a few years, the chickenpox vaccine, oh, most kids got chicken box when they were younger. If you were born in the eighties or even the nineties, I remember polka dots. Most people are fine. Some people were not fine. However, there is a chickenpox vaccine and it became mandatory in most states by 2006. And now there's no chicken box.

1 (22m 49s):
They don't get the chicken pox anymore in school,

8 (22m 51s):
It's plummeted, plummeted more than 90%. However, that is kind of our last success story in the realm of requiring vaccines and wiping out infectious

1 (22m 60s):
Diseases. Were there other like attempts?

8 (23m 2s):
Yeah, there's been the flu shot. There's been HPV human papilloma virus and the rotavirus vaccine, but none of those have managed to get mandated in more than a handful of states. And why is that? Well, as you may have heard, you know, in the last 20 years or so, a really powerful kind of form of anti-vaccination movement has reasoned across the country, right? And specifically there was this retracted paper by a discredited scientists with financial ties about vaccines and autism, and specifically the measles, mumps, rubella vaccine, and autism. And this kind of took hold in the public imagination. There were all these emotional stories. There's so many, you know, parents and kids with autism who were looking for answers, looking for remedies.

8 (23m 47s):
And there's this very powerful movement. That's grown up with social media.

14 (23m 52s):
I spoke here, I typed in the word vaccinations in the search bar and we can see clearly here. One of the top results is vaccines cause autism. We know that this has been debunked, but it's something that just won't go away.

8 (24m 5s):
And as a result, there's just like more anti-vaccine sentiment than there's been in a really long time, almost since the turn of the century facing those headwinds. It was very hard for states to Institute new mandates in the last 10, 15 years or so

1 (24m 18s):
Of vaccine exemptions played a role in these other.

8 (24m 24s):
Yes, this is really interesting. So basically, like I mentioned, there's always been sort of people against vaccines and most of the time authorities have allowed for exemptions for people, whether it's for religious purposes or just personal belief exemptions, they're a little bit of a pressure valve in the system. So like if you have a mandate, but then people who are really, really motivated can kind of cop out from the mandate, then it kind of works out. Okay. Because herd immunity is strong enough to cover those folks who don't want to get vaccinated. What happened with the really vigilant, you would say anti-vaccination movement in the last 10 years or so. So many people started taking exemptions that we started to have outbreaks, right?

8 (25m 6s):
Measles outbreaks

15 (25m 7s):
Easels was virtually eliminated from the U S a decade ago. So we were surprised to hear that measles infected at least 19 people who visited Disney theme parks in California,

16 (25m 19s):
New York city has declared a public health emergency in an effort to combat our growing measles outbreak city health officials say there have been 285 confirmed measle cases in Brooklyn and Queens since September, most were members of the Orthodox Jewish community.

9 (25m 37s):
The only way to stop this outbreak is to ensure that those who have not been vaccinated, get the vaccine.

8 (25m 44s):
And so New York and California said no more exemptions, except if it's a medical thing, you know, that rarely happens, but we're not going to let you just say it's because of my beliefs that I don't want to get my kid vaccinated. So what's interesting now with the COVID vaccines is that some legal scholars I talked to who are tracking these things, they're tracking legal challenges to COVID mandates around employees and other organizations. They're concerned that with this particular Supreme court and specifically when Amy Coney Barrett came onto the court, there's been decisions that would suggest that if a vaccine mandate case gets to the Supreme court, that they're going to uphold a federal mandate for religious exemptions.

8 (26m 27s):
What that means is it's not going to be up to the states anymore. Everybody's going to have to allow religious exemptions. And that opens the door in such a way that it makes the mandates almost useless because of enough people are motivated and organized to take the exemptions from the mandates. It's not going to be mandated anymore. You can't use a mandate in the powerful way that it's been used in the past to kind of force people into herd immunity.

1 (26m 51s):
It sounds like all signs are pointing to these vaccine mandates for kids in schools failing. Does it look sort of likely

8 (27m 3s):
School vaccine mandates have stood since 1922? There's a very specific Supreme court ruling that says, yeah, these are constitutional. It is a public health measure. The public health should overtop any concern for personal Liberty in this particular case. Okay. So there's very strong law on the side of the, of a school of vaccine mandate. The question is just because you can doesn't mean you should, The medical experts. I talked to you specifically the experts on anti-vaccination movements and how they get so strong. And so organized said, they think it's a little premature because there's so much controversy over this disease. There's so much controversy over the public health measures that surround this disease and the vaccines are not, you know, fully approved yet for children.

8 (27m 49s):
Maybe let's take a couple of years, let's take a breath here and resolve it possibly another way, try to form more consensus and you know, kind of like softer measures, like the athlete mandate, right? Or a mandate for full trips, or, you know, the state of Massachusetts said that if enough kids are vaccinated in a school, the kids who have the vaccines can take their masks off. So that's a very clear way of kind of saying, yeah, but we're going to make life easier for you if you get a vaccine, but we're not going to make you

1 (28m 25s):
Anya Kevin that's, she's an education reporter with NPR. She's also the author of an upcoming book on kids and COVID, it's called the stolen year. How COVID changed children's lives and where we go. Now, the first part of our Sharnay was produced by miles Bryan. He produced the second part. He also screamed vaccinated at one point a bunch. He was edited by Matthew Collette and Jillian Weinberger. The show today was engineered by a theme Shapiro and fact-checked by Laura Bullard special thanks to Veronica Ramirez and her family along with Jesse <em></em> and the rest of the Cramer hill staff. The rest of the team here today explained includes Victoria Chamberlain, Halima Shaw, Hottie, Milwaukee D.

1 (29m 5s):
And we'll read our supervising producer is Amina. Alsada our VP of audio here at Vox is Liz Kelly Nelson and Jillian Weinberger is our deputy music from Breakmaster cylinder. And no I'm Hassenfeld sometimes too today explained is part of the Vox media podcast network.