0 (1s):
Today explained Sean Rameswaram room. When I went to see Killers of the Flower Moon, it was an experience and I'm not even talking about the movie experience. The experience started the night before when I had to make sure I got enough sleep to see a three and a half hour movie on Saturday and it continued all day that Saturday when I had to make sure I didn't do too much so I wasn't exhausted by the time I got to the three and a half hour movie and the experience really started to hit in the hours before the three and a half hour movie when I had to think about eating and drinking. Don't eat too much or you'll be tired, but eat enough that you'll not be hungry and don't drink too much or you'll have to leave for the twilight, but drink enough to not be parched. And I pulled it off. I didn't fall asleep. I didn't need the bathroom, but I was still wanting an intermission.

0 (43s):
Marty, I don't know.

1 (44s):
Don don't know what she said, but it must have been Indian for handsome Devil

2 (49s):
Shit.

0 (51s):
Why does it seem like movies aren so dang long? Now that's coming up on the show.

Apple (1m 1s):
Apple Card is the credit card created by Apple. You earn 3% daily cash back upfront when you use it to buy a new iPhone. 15 AirPods or any products at Apple. And you can automatically grow your daily cash at 4.15% annual percentage yield when you open a high yield savings account. Apply for Apple Card in the wallet app on iPhone Apple Card subject to credit approval. Savings is available to Apple card owners subject to eligibility savings accounts by Goldman Sachs Bank u s A member FDIC. Terms apply.

Meta Quest (1m 38s):
This podcast is brought to you by Meta Quest three, the new mixed reality headset from Meta. Expand your World in ways you never thought possible with the new Meta Quest. Three. Put on the most powerful quest yet and jump into fully immersive games like Assassin's Creed Nexus or blend virtual elements into your surroundings in games like Stranger Things vr. With over 500 titles it's easy to dive into whatever you're into. Expand your world with Meta Quest three. See child safety guidance online accounts for 10 and up certain apps, games and experiences may be suitable for a more mature audience. Learn more at meta dot com.

5 (2m 17s):
Hello on with the show

0 (2m 20s):
Today Explained Sam Adams. You write about culture at Slate Oppenheimer Killers of the Flower Moon, Napoleon. Now all three hours long or approaching three hours, I think there's Like a seven hour cut of Napoleon or something. It's got a lot of people saying movies should be shorter. Is that what made you write an investigation about long movies for a Slate?

6 (2m 42s):
As long as I've been reading about movies, certainly people have been saying that they've been too long and it comes up, especially this time every year because this is when we get the sort of like big prestige releases from the studios, which tend to be longer and more epic. So I went into this with the assumption that, you know, movies aren getting longer and I was, you know, prepared to argue at least in defense of that because some of those long movies I think are really great. I like that feeling of a big expansive story that takes you places, but then when you actually look at the data, it's true that movies have gotten longer over the last a hundred years or something, but that basically peaks in 1960 for several reasons.

0 (3m 19s):
1960, yes.

6 (3m 20s):
That's when we start to get the 90 minute to two hour movie that we sort of think of like as Like a regular length now. And it really hasn't changed in the last 60, 70 years.

0 (3m 29s):
Let's just start with the fact that this complaint isn't new because it feels like this is a very much a contemporary issue, but how long have people been complaining about movies being too long?

6 (3m 40s):
Yeah, I couldn't find the first time that people were complaining about movies overall being too long.

7 (3m 45s):
I loved the arrival of a Twain Same on Your Feet, but I don't see why it had to be 50 whole seconds.

6 (3m 51s):
I think certainly when you had this period in the 1950s where the studio started to roll out what they called roadshow versions of movies sort of, you know, big overblown, often musicals like Oklahoma or the Sound of Music, they would do them as a sort of all evening affair. They would have intermissions, they would have printed programs 'cause they were trying to emphasize how movies were different from TV and that often meant movies that were just longer than they needed to be just because they needed them to feel big. So people complained about those specific movies being too long when people started complaining about movies overall being too long. I, I know at least as early as the early 1990s, so it's you know, 30, 40 years at minimum. Hmm.

0 (4m 31s):
And what were people complaining about in the nineties?

6 (4m 34s):
Well, it's almost quaint. you know, in the 1990s this article I found an Entertainment Weekly was saying, well you know, these movies aren 121 minutes long, they're over two hours. I was like, oh you sweet Summer child. Here's

8 (4m 45s):
The short of it. A Few Good Men 138 Minutes is the latest of a literally growing group of really long movies. In fact, a little investigation proves that running times for feature films have stretched from an average of 90 minutes in the 1930s to 121 minutes today.

6 (5m 5s):
Because now we're looking at, you know, the average movie in the box office Top 10 this year is two hours and 23 minutes. If, you look at the all time, you know, top 10 Box office movies, the top four are all over two hours and 40 minutes. So it does feel like these, certainly the biggest noisiest movies that take up the most space are getting longer.

0 (5m 27s):
People have been feeling this way for decades. What does the data say? What is actually going on with movie lengths? Are they getting longer?

6 (5m 37s):
Yeah, so people have been feeling that movies have been getting longer for a long time. But If, you look at the numbers that isn't really true. There's a period sort of at the beginning of the sound era, sort of 1930 to 1960 where average running times do go up significantly.

9 (5m 53s):
Then one morning you wake up, the guy's gone, the saxophone's gone, all it's left behind is a pair of old sauce and a tube of

6 (5m 59s):
Toothpaste. And then in 1960 it basically plateaus. I think there are a couple reasons for that. One is just, you know, filmmakers and studios kind of getting used to this new medium, finding a kind of comfortable mono formm that's roughly the same length as the stage plate. Also, what happens in 1960 is that you really start to lose the double feature structure of movies, which is where there was sort of an a picture, which is basically what we would think of as sort of regular movie length now. And then this whole separate class of B movies, which were a little over an hour sort of 60 to 75 minutes long, those basically get phased out in the 1960s. So it's, it's you just lose a whole class of short movies and that's why the average plateaus at that point and but since 1960 it really hasn't changed very much.

6 (6m 40s):
You find the sort of average movie length is basically now what it was then. So almost no matter what age you are, the movies now are on average at least the same length as they were when you were growing up.

0 (6m 53s):
Weight, wait, what was going on in the 1960s that people would want to go see two movies at once. I know that's still a thing that you can find at Like, a Repertory Cinema, but for the most part people just want the one movie these days. Obviously,

6 (7m 5s):
You know, you would spend a day at the pictures and there would be, you know, news reels

10 (7m 8s):
December 7th, 1941, no American will ever forget this Sunday morning in Hawaii

6 (7m 14s):
In cartoons and multiple movies playing and you would just kind of wander in when you felt like it and leave when you left. And if it that was in the middle of a movie at either end, that was just how it was. You would come in and stay till you got to the point when it played the second time and then you would leave. So you might be there for 3, 4, 5 hours, but it wasn't just for one film. In 19 60, 1 of the things that happened is that's the year that Psycho came out and there's, this was this very famous advertising campaign where they said,

10 (7m 40s):
I've suggested that Psycho be seen from the beginning. In fact, this is more than a suggestion. It is required

11 (7m 49s):
And here is what Broadway saw. No one, but no one will be admitted to the theater after the start of each performance of Psycho,

6 (7m 58s):
You know, supposedly to preserve the surprise. And it was a brilliant marketing move on Hitchcock's part. But the reason why they had to take out those ads is because that was not how people watched movies. Then

10 (8m 8s):
This of course is to help you enjoy Psycho more. We really have only your enjoyment in mind.

6 (8m 16s):
So it was kind of the advent of a single movie as a discreet event. So rather than just like spending the day at the pictures, you were going to one movie and that really changed the way that people related to the whole experience.

12 (8m 28s):
You wanna say it again? Can we? Of course.

0 (8m 31s):
So Alfred Hitchcock was powerful enough to one sort of scold people into showing up on time when that wasn't the norm and then powerful enough to change the way the entire country saw movies.

6 (8m 43s):
Yeah, I mean it was, it's funny because Psycho was, I think people don't realize this now, but there was, it was a pretty sort of low budget, not quite underground picture for him, but it was not sort of a, you know, a big major release. They needed to do something clever to get people's attention. So this was the, you know, a gimmick no different than like, like William Castle putting like electric buzzers in people's seats to give them a jolt.

13 (9m 3s):
Anytime you are conscious of a tingling sensation, you may obtain immediate relief by screaming, don't be embarrassed about opening your mouth and letting rip with all you've got because the person in the seat right next to you will probably be screaming too.

6 (9m 21s):
But it's just brilliant marketing and people were so intrigued by this idea of, my God, there's a surprise in this movie so big that If, you don't see it all the way through, you're gonna, it's gonna ruin it, you know, lines around the block for, and the lines themselves then became advertising for the film as well.

0 (9m 36s):
Okay, so that's the sea change moment in, in the movie going experience in the United States. It's back when Psycho comes out in the 1960s. But you're also saying that since then there's no major difference in the average runtime of movies. But you did point out that in the nineties there was an article in Entertainment Weekly complaining about a two hour movie and that all of the top box office movies of say 20 22, 20 23 are running longer than that. More or less what's going on then?

6 (10m 7s):
Yeah, so what I've found when I looked at the numbers is that the average length of a movie has not changed since 1960. What has changed is the most popular movies have gotten much longer If. you look at that box office top 10 from 19 93, 30 years ago,

14 (10m 24s):
Didn't you see Fatal Attraction? You wouldn't let me, well I saw it. I didn't kill my wife, I don't care.

6 (10m 33s):
If, you average all the movies in the top 10 in 1993 together, the average length is about two hours this year it's two hours and 23 minutes. And while movies overall have not gotten longer, the movies that are making the most money, that are taking up the most attention that Occupy the biggest place in the culture have gotten a lot longer. And I think that's why it feels like overall they have, because the ones we're paying the most attention to have.

0 (10m 57s):
And so we're not just talking about Oppenheimer and Killers of the Flower Moon, you're, you're talking about all of the top grossing movies, which certainly involve some people wearing like tight suits and flying around.

14 (11m 9s):
Can the Spider-Man come out today?

6 (11m 12s):
Yeah, I mean I think superhero movies certainly when you're talking about the box office top 10, I think superhero movies and you know, big sort of sci-fi adventures like Avatar as well are more responsible for that because I, you know, killers of the Flower Moon is a great movie I think, but is not a Box Office champion is not making huge ripples there. And so it's not driving what the industry does in the future, but a movie Like a, you know, Avengers End Game or Avatar two, those are really going to determine sort of what the studios are making in the future. And audiences are, you know, by and large turning out spending the most money on those, those longest movies. What was interesting to me, this is a not a conclusion I would've come to before looking through this, is that, I mean, the data sort of says this like unequivocally, the reason that movies keep getting longer is because the longer movies aren more popular.

6 (11m 58s):
Those are the movies that most people are going to see. So people may complain or they may feel that movies aren too long, but when they vote with their box office dollars, those are actually the ones that they're preferring to see.

0 (12m 9s):
Which means, you know, if we're rewarding studios and directors and writers for the longer movies by going to see them, we're gonna get more of those, right?

6 (12m 20s):
Yes. I mean Hollywood is extremely reactive that way. So they will make more of what people go to see. So as long as people keep spending the most money to see, go see these longer movies, they're gonna keep making them long.

15 (12m 31s):
Enjoy the show.

0 (12m 38s):
Can we at least get an intermission though? I'm gonna ask Sam when we're back on today. Explain

NPR (12m 53s):
Support for today's show comes from NPR Love Them and their new podcast, body Electric. Body Electric is an interactive six-part series that investigates how our relationship with technology is impacting our health according to their research. Our bodies are changing to meet the demands of technology and the information age from nearsightedness and mass psychogenic illness to type two diabetes rates doubling in young people. So they're partnering with Columbia Medical School to find out why and to try and figure out what we can do about it. Sarah Frank, who works on the business side, or Vox, she listened to the new Body Electric program. Maybe some of y'all are like me and get sort of a full body Shivers. If, you hear that Slack or work email noise after hours. This show is gonna explain things like that and there's also an interactive element so us listeners can follow along and make some of the changes that they talk about on the show, which is really cool If you're feeling the pressure of our fast paced culture. Body Electric wants to help lighten your load both mentally and physically. You can listen to Body Electric now on TED Radio Hour from NPR wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (14m 2s):
don don't know why I said all weird

Sequoia Capital (14m 8s):
Support for the show today comes from crucible moments. We all remember those choices we made that help shape the course of our lives in business. Sequoia Capital calls these choices crucible moments. Their new podcast brings you inside the critical decisions that define some of the world's most important companies. For example, did you know that before helping power the AI revolution as the sixth most valuable company in the world? According to Crucible moments, Nvidia nearly went bankrupt in the mid nineties after investing all of its resources in a video game architecture that would become obsolete soon. In one episode of the podcast, Nvidia founder Jensen Huang talks about how the company only survived because of a long shot favor from the CEO of Sega. You can tune into Sequoia's new podcast series to discover how some of the most transformational companies of the modern era were built. Crucible Moments is out now and available everywhere you get your podcasts. And at crucible moments dot com you can listen to Crucible Moments today.

Apple (15m 18s):
Apple Card is the credit card created by Apple. You earn 3% daily cash back upfront when you use it to buy a new iPhone, 15 AirPods or any products on Apple. And you can automatically grow your daily cash at 4.15% annual percentage yield. When you open a high yield savings account. Apply for Apple Card in the wallet app on iPhone Apple card subject to credit approval savings is available to Apple card owners subject to eligibility, savings accounts by Goldman Sachs Bank, u s A member FDIC terms supply.

17 (15m 55s):
Have you ever seen a movie? It's amazing.

2 (16m 1s):
Welcome

18 (16m 2s):
To welcome to

0 (16m 7s):
Today, explain Sam Adams Slate. So it seems like movies aren't gonna get any shorter anytime soon based on the fact that people keep going to see the long movies, but can we at least get intermissions?

6 (16m 23s):
I think the short answer is unfortunately no for a couple of reasons. One is that as far as I could tell, the theaters don't want them. It seems like it would work to the theater's benefit If, you give people a little break in the middle of the movie to go out and, you know, buy another popcorn, another soda, whatever, delicious

0 (16m 38s):
Things to eat.

10 (16m 40s):
The popcorn can't be beat the sparkling,

6 (16m 44s):
But you know, intermissions are, you know, six to 10 minutes. That is not a ton of time If, you've, you know, waited in line at a theater for food. Mm. So it, it really does not as far as I can tell, add to their bottom line in any significant way. And it does make the whole experience take longer. It's sort of a funny thing that people are complaining about movies being too long and then requesting that the experience actually be longer by putting a break in the middle of it.

0 (17m 7s):
But like if 200 people get up to go buy a popcorn that costs like five bucks and a soda that costs like five bucks, how is that not adding to the bottom line? That's like $2,000.

6 (17m 18s):
I think maybe that, you know, the break is just too short for that or it's, you know, people buy more if they're stocking up for a three hour movie, then then they know they'll have another chance in the middle. don don't know exactly what it's, but theaters I think have not found that it's worth certainly the hassle of having crowd spill out into the hallway and come back in in the middle of the movie while they're seating 12 other screens. It just doesn't seem to work out to their benefit and I, I don't think the studios or the directors really want to add them either. It, it does fundamentally change the experience. And I think what they would rather do is what James Cameron said when people asked him about a adding an intermission to Avatar two, he said, you know what? Go run pee whenever you want to.

6 (17m 59s):
Then you can see the part you missed when you come back and pay to see the movie a second time. I think that's the strategy

0 (18m 6s):
That doesn't feel Like a winning strategy. I saw Avatar outside the United States and they threw an intermission in the middle of the movie at a perfect moment that made so much sense that you would've thought that James Cameron came up with this intermission himself and a bunch of people went up, got bunch to the bathroom, got snacks, came back and it felt Like a good deal for everyone. Was that Like a rogue intermission?

6 (18m 32s):
I mean it was a rogue intermission as far as that movie is concerned. you know, every Hollywood movie goes out with an exhibition contract which says essentially you have to play the movie that we gave you. This is, this goes back to theaters in more conservative areas, sort of, you know, cutting out sex scenes, cutting out interracial kisses, things like that. So aha, no change in the movie that includes putting a break in the middle of it. I don't know, you know, if they send it to a country like India for example, where intermissions in the movie in the middle of a long movie are par for the course, that's sort of how they're regularly exhibited. you know, maybe they have the permission to do that in Avatar or something like that because it is, that's the kind of the tradition that's the movie culture there. So it's a totally different experience and, and you know, if a movie certainly is built in two parts, if it comes with an intermission and it's, you know, built to kind of go to a climax in the middle and start over again, you know, by all means take that break.

6 (19m 21s):
It's a two act experience. That's, that's how you should watch it. It's more the matter of putting that into the middle of something where it's not meant to be.

20 (19m 30s):
Well, it's powerful. So we need to be quiet for a while.

22 (19m 39s):
It's good for the crops, that's for

20 (19m 40s):
Sure. Just be still,

6 (19m 43s):
You know, it is, it is funny to me that this comes up with Killers of the Flower Moon so intensely when this, you know, it's like, you know, 10 or 15 minutes longer than Avengers three or Avatar two. It is almost exactly the length of a show on Taylor Swift's eras tour, you know, so we're perfectly capable of sitting through these things as single experiences without feeling like there needs to be a break in the middle. And I think it just feels like possibly 'cause of the nature of what killers of the Flower Moon is, it feels Like a bigger ask to have to sit through this thing without a pause.

0 (20m 13s):
Well, this maybe gets to the heart of the matter here because Martin Scorsese himself has said Avengers movies, Marvel movies, superhero movies aren't really cinema

23 (20m 23s):
The value of a film that's Like a theme park film, for example, the Marvel type pictures where where the theaters become amusement parks, that's a different experience and it's like, it's not even, it's, I was saying earlier, it's not cinema, it's something else, you know, whether you go for that or not, but it is something else and they shouldn't be, we shouldn't be invaded by

0 (20m 42s):
It. And he obviously was trying to make some cinema and his movie is at times very difficult to watch. You gotta watch innocent people being murdered over and over and over again without any respite, without a release.

6 (21m 1s):
That is the point. I mean, I certainly understand wanting a break from that. I wanted it to, I definitely have seen sort of, you know, native American viewers talking on social media about this just being this unrelenting assault and really feeling kind of traumatized by the experience. And I'm, I'm certainly not gonna tell them not to feel that way. I, I understand why they do, but I think the relentlessness of, you know, essentially genocide that you're watching in this film is part of the point. It is not something that he wants to give people an out from a chance to like catch their breath. He really wants the, the kind of really numbing regularity of these murders against the Osage to pile up and get to you.

6 (21m 42s):
And so they think that's, that's part of the design,

24 (21m 44s):
Turning the lens, turning the big lens, the, the, the most golden lens into, into areas where our communities, you know, we're speaking of the 1920s Osage community. We we're talking about Black Wall Street in Tulsa, we're talking about a lot in our film, and why the hell does the world not know about these things? Our communities always have,

6 (22m 9s):
You know, the theatrical experience that they were designing it for. You're really not meant to have an escape from that. You're, you know, you have to sit through it and feel the full weight of what's happening in this story and what happened in real life

0 (22m 23s):
That really struck a chord with me when you pointed that out in your piece for Slate. Like, the thing that made me want an intermission is the exact reason that he didn't give me one. And then it occurred to me that maybe the real solution here for all the people who want an intermission, who want sch shorter movies is to see different movies.

6 (22m 42s):
Yeah. I mean there, there are obviously like plenty of shorter movies out there that are ones that are much easier to watch than Killers of the Flower Moon. You have a endless array of choices at your local cinema, but I, I do think there is something at least potentially special about the experience of watching a certain kind of long movie when the running time is used intelligently by a smart filmmaker who is really thinking about the kind of experience they are putting you through in the seats and not just, not just kind of letting the story run long as a sort of cheat code to make something feel epic or important.

25 (23m 14s):
I love your name Marilyn Monroe. So totally phony. I love it.

6 (23m 24s):
And I, you know, I think that happens a lot too, and that's part of the reason why it feels like movies aren getting too long, because some of them definitely are, there are movies that are essentially using bloated running times as a kind of, just a way of signifying that they're important without actually being important, making you feel like something you have to see don don't think the reason that, for example, the Marvels is, you know, the biggest box office bomb in the Marvel cinematic US Universe's history is because it's the shortest film

0 (23m 54s):
And there's the numbers right there, 54.8 million, a full million dollars shy of what the Hulk did 15 years ago.

6 (24m 3s):
But does the fact that it's an hour and 45 minutes whereas a vendor's end game is over three hours, does it make it feel a little more skippable probably.

0 (24m 11s):
And then, and then when it comes to like the Napoleon and the Oppenheimers and the Killers of the Flower Moon, you feel like these are the movies that are maybe earning it?

6 (24m 20s):
Some of them are, yeah. And I Napoleon's an interesting case because that's a two and a half hour movie that actually feels way too short. It feels sort of weirdly cut up and sort of sliced and diced because there is a four hour cut of it that Ridley Scott is going to be putting out on streaming and that's his preferred version. So that's a case where this, you know, pretty long movie feels like there's not enough of it. you know, there's a, a quote from Roger Ebert that is you're required to use when you have this discussion, which is that no good movie is too long and no bad movie is short enough. And I, I think that's indisputably true. you know, If, you watch a movie like Napoleon, which is two and a half hours long, I wanna see the four hour cut of that Even though I was kind of iffy on the two and a half hour version.

6 (25m 2s):
It just feels like there's not enough, it feels like there's things missing. So I'm curious to see the full version of that.

0 (25m 7s):
You can't wait to see a four hour version of that movie.

6 (25m 10s):
I I can't, I mean, maybe I'm a glutton for punishment. That is a perfectly fair conclusion here. One of the reasons I sort of advocate for this, you know, particular theatrical experience of seeing, you know, all three hours and 20 minutes of killers at the Flower Moon in the theater without a break is, it's kind of the last place in our society where you can do something for that long without interruption. you know, I have a teenager and two dogs and there's no way I'm getting through a three hour and 20 minute movie at home without some sort of interruption. It's just not gonna happen. Movie theater is the only place where I get the, that amount of time to concentrate on one thing for that long. And I think that is an important experience to preserve.

0 (25m 50s):
And how many times do you think you'll get interrupted during the four hour cut of Napoleon at home?

6 (25m 54s):
I at 85?

0 (25m 57s):
You could watch it over the course of two weeks maybe.

6 (25m 60s):
Yes. I mean, yes. I mean that will definitely not be watched in a single sitting and probably not in a single day

26 (26m 6s):
Live the Em

0 (26m 11s):
Sam Adams read him at Slate. His piece that inspired our episode is titled What The Debate Over Long Movies Gets Wrong. Today's show was edited by Matthew Collette fact-Check by Laura Bullard and Isabel Angell mixed by David Herman and produced by Victoria Chamberlin who had to bring a breast pump to Oppenheimer because it was so dang long. But she says it was worth it, totally worth it. The rest of us at today explained are Halima s Shah, Avi Shai Artsy Ty mdi, Amanda Lule Miles, Bryan Si Petros, Patrick Boyd, Rob Byers, and of course Noel King.

0 (26m 56s):
Our supervising producer is Amina Ade. Our executive producer is Miranda Kennedy. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder. And today Explained is distributed by WNYC. The show is a part of Vox, which is free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners, join us at Vox dot com slash give and thank you.