3 (1s):
Quick note before we start the show this piece of audio about to serve up into your ears this slice of podcast that's been finely finessed. It's brought to you by the quip electric toothbrush. It's got sensitive vibrations in a built-in timer to help you get the best toothbrushing experience out of your toothbrush and it starts at just $25 and your first set of refills are free at get clipped.com / explained.

1 (25s):
Ukraine Ukraine Angel Prokop Vox today

3 (36s):
is a solemn day. It's a solemn day for a solemn act in Nancy Pelosi's opinion

1 (43s):
on the solemn day. I'm I recall that the first order of business for members of Congress is the solemn act to take an oath to protect and defend the Constitution. Constitution of the United States

3 (58s):
and that act is to introduce the articles of impeachment against President Donald Trump and she quickly passed the Baton to house Judiciary Committee chair Jerry Nadler who became only the fourth person in the history of our nation to present articles of impeachment against a sitting president

1 (1m 16s):
today in service to our duty to the Constitution and to our country The house committee on the Judiciary is introducing two articles of impeachment charging the president of the United States Donald J. Trump with committing High crimes and misdemeanors

3 (1m 35s):
one abuse of power and to obstruction of Congress. Let's start with article one abuse of power.

1 (1m 42s):
It is an impeachable offense for the president to exercise the powers of his public office to obtain an improper personal benefit while Boring or in injuring the national interest

3 (1m 57s):
Article 1 abuse of power. It focuses on the basic facts of the Ukraine Scandal which in the view of Democrats boils down to this that President Trump's solicited the interference of a foreign government Ukraine in the 2020 United States presidential election and that he did so by urging Ukraine to publicly announce investigations that would benefit his election harm his opponents political prospects and that as part of this pressure campaign. He attempted to condition to official US government acts that Ukraine wanted on whether they would announce these investigations.

3 (2m 39s):
That's the White House meeting with the president of Ukraine and President Trump and the 391 million dollars in military aid for Ukraine second article obstruction of congress, not of Justice. But of Congress, yes, so this in the Democrats framing at the press conference was what President Trump did once he got

1 (3m 1s):
caught when the house investigated and opened an impeachment inquiry President Trump engaged in unprecedented categorical and indiscriminate Defiance of the impeachment inquiry

3 (3m 15s):
and according to Article 2. He did so in a manner offensive to and subversive of The Constitution so specifically the article points out three things that Trump did he directed The White House to defy a lawful subpoena by withholding the production of documents sought by the committee's he also number two directed other executive branch agencies and offices to defile awful subpoenas. And withhold documents. That's the state department Office of Management and budget the energy department and the defense department and finally third Trump. Current and former executive branch officials not to cooperate with the committee's in response to which 9 Administration officials defied subpoenas for Testimony.

3 (4m 3s):
The article lists all nine names the most famous of which is Mick Mulvaney the acting white house chief of staff what happened to bribery there was so much talk about bribery articles about bribery entire podcast episodes about bribery. One reason that bribery came up so often is that the Constitution states that a president can be Peached for treason bribery or high crimes and misdemeanors but Democrats may have concluded that this didn't fit. So cleanly with you know, the colloquial understanding a bribery which is Trump handing a sack of money to someone you could argue that the withholding of the military aid was somewhat similar to that but they evidently felt they were on firmer ground framing the Ukraine stuff as an abuse of power.

3 (4m 51s):
Not as bribery. The molar report there was talk in the past few weeks about stuff from the Mueller Port coming back into these articles of impeachment that didn't end up happening. Yeah as recently as yesterday. They were still talk of a potential Third Article of impeachment one that would be about obstruction of justice. And that one would have focused on conduct outlined in the mullah report specifically Trump's effort to get the White House counsel Don McGann to create a false. False paper trail for him is one specific instance Democrats wanted to focus on but again, they thought they had a clean argument here about the Ukraine Scandal and about Trump's attempts to cover up and obstruct the inquiry into the Ukraine Scandal and then bringing up this ancient history that happened, you know, oh a year ago two years ago that that would be too tough a political cell before this press conference wrapped up Adam shift spoke.

3 (5m 52s):
What did he have to say? So Schiff addressed a question that has been posed to Democrats pretty frequently lately.

1 (6m 1s):
Now some would argue. Why don't you just wait. Why don't you just wait until you get these Witnesses the White House refuses to produce? Why don't you just wait until you get the documents the White House refuses to turn over?

3 (6m 15s):
Why are they moving ahead now with an impeachment vote rather than continuing their investigation trying to pursue lawsuits in the court to unearth more documents get more witness testimony and get more facts about what actually happened here

1 (6m 33s):
and people should understand what that argument really means. It has taken us eight months to get a lower Court ruling that Don McGann has no absolute right to defy Congress 8 months for one Court decision

3 (6m 51s):
and shifts response. Was that Trump essentially tried to cheat to win the 2020 election in his view with this effort to make this deal with Ukraine and that if they waited it's essentially letting Trump get away with cheating and that they couldn't do

1 (7m 12s):
that. Why not? Let him cheat just one more time. Why not? Let him have Ford help just one more time. That is what that argument amounts to.

3 (7m 25s):
I guess we know how Republicans feel about this whole process from their performance yesterday in the house Judiciary Committee did President Trump respond as morning President Trump offered a few tweets one simply reads Witch Hunt all capital letters exclamation point another. He said that Nadler just said that I pressure. Ukraine to interfere in our 2020 election ridiculous and he knows that is not true both the president and foreign minister of Ukraine said many times that there was no pressure Nadler and the Dems know this but refused to acknowledge

1 (8m 1s):
later this week the Judiciary Committee will meet to consider these articles of impeachment and to make a recommendation to the Full House of

3 (8m 10s):
Representatives. So what comes next the Judiciary Committee has a large Democratic majority of we liberal Democrats. So this vote is a done deal. Both of these articles are surely going to be approved out of the Judiciary Committee. Then of course, the big question is how many votes they will get on the house floor and that vote is expected next week. I wonder what that vote will sound like a drew

1 (8m 38s):
the clerk will call the roll.

3 (8m 40s):
I'm guessing it will sound something like this. Mr. Nadler. Hi.

1 (8m 43s):
Mr. Nadler votes aye mr. Richmond. Mr. Richmond votes. Yes, mr. Jeffries. Mr. Jeffries the time mr. Solo. Yes, mr. Slovaks. Yes. Mr. Liu aye. Mr. Lupo's I mr. Raskin. Mr. Raskin bitch. I must rifle Miss dipole but I am is demings just that makes with I master Correia Mr. Curry emotes. I miss Scanlon Miss Scanlon votes. I miss Garcia Iris Garcia Versailles. Mr. Goose. Mr. Niggas vote. Aye. Mr. Collins. Mr. Collins was no mr. Shannon. Mr. Chabot Bush know mr. McLintock. Mr. McClintock votes. No, mr. Lesko. Let's go to know. Mr. Rockefeller Suresh with our votes. No, mr. Klein, mr. Klineberg snow. Mr.

1 (9m 23s):
Armstrong. Mr. Armstrong votes. No, mr. Stevie. Mr. Stevie both know the motion to table is agreed

3 (9m 32s):
to I got a hint equipped for their latest marketing campaign here. They're making the argument that if you ask a dentist what toothbrush to buy that said dentist will tell you it's less about the brush and more about how you use it. And quip says that's an argument for you to buy the clip electric toothbrush because the quip electric toothbrush has these sensitive vibrations A built-in timer plus, you know, there's there's the benefits of having quipped deliver you your refills every three months so you don't have to think about that their steak and all their bologna on that argument that you know, it doesn't matter what brush you buy but you should buy the quip they've even provided a website where you can do it the clip starts at just $25 and your first refills are free at get equipped.com / explained.

3 (10m 31s):
It's an easy way to support our show and your teeth again GE tqi p.com explained and your first set of refills is free. Okay. Good luck. Ezra Klein host of impeachment explained from Vox perhaps the perfect person to ask why these two articles of impeachment abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. So that's been the big question. I would call this the minimum viable impeachment product right you have abuse of power which is fundamentally what Donald Trump has done using the power of his office to further his own domestic political ends at that is abuse of power in these specific way the founders contemplated it then you have obstruction and I Note that obstruction is here both in a direct way.

3 (11m 21s):
Donald Trump has been keeping the key Witnesses from testifying before the house which in a way nullifies the impeachment power, but it's also in some ways a rebuttal to Republican argument has been hearing which is that well, we've not done enough fact-finding not heard from enough people and the point of this article as well as to say, well, yeah, we could do more fact-finding and hear from more people if the president was not refusing to participate in the process and thereby short-circuiting congressional oversight. Sounds like you were expecting what you heard this morning. Was there anything in the written version that surprised you I wouldn't say it surprised me the thing. I do want to call out though. The impeachment articles are nine pages long.

3 (12m 2s):
If you go to the fifth page go to the second paragraph on the fifth page. There's something that the Democrats say that I think is key to this whole situation. They write President Trump by such conduct has demonstrated that he will remain a threat to National Security and the And if allowed to remain in office and it's acted in a manner grossly incompatible with self governance and the rule of law, I think there's a way to look at impeachment where you are understanding it fundamentally as punishment, right? You're drawing an analogy to I don't know a court case. He did something and it is being punished but to think about that analogy in a broader way impeachment in the way Democrats are framing it here is preventive.

3 (12m 45s):
You are trying to keep somebody who has shown they will abuse. Use the powers of office in order to further their own political and personal goals from being able to do that again, and I'll Trump who clearly did some version of this in the Miller case it very much clearly did obstruction in the molar case publicly asked Russia to hack Hillary Clinton's emails after everything that happened in the molar case after all the investigating and the Press coverage and the attacks and Trump shouting that was a Witch Hunt he turned around and did exactly what he was accused of there with Ukraine and now there's no argument. He really did use the power of his office. Is to try to collude or in another version extort a foreign government to help him win the next election. So what we see here is a pattern of behavior.

3 (13m 27s):
And if Donald Trump is allowed to skate out of this if he is allowed to get by without any kind of punishment sanction or removal, there's no reason to think that he will not do this and worse than this again and to keep somebody from doing it again. That is the Constitutional portion of impeachment that is why it is there to protect the country from that kind of behavior. ER but everyone in this process is certain that the Republicans are going to acquit the president. So if this was meant to be a reminder of consequences of actions or even punishment as you say if it quitted will the president feel that consequence that punishment, I don't know he certainly won't feel to the extent he would if he were Sonata quitted it is hard to say what to do when you have one political party short-circuiting accountability in government.

3 (14m 16s):
It's hard to say what to do. Constitutional structure is breaking down because it was not designed for parties. You cannot have a two-party political system that is functional if one party has become dysfunctional but it isn't an answer that works in that structure. So I don't have a good answer for you on that. What I will say is that while acquittal as opposed to removal gives Donald Trump, at least let's have retain the power to act in these ways Again by the same token. Nobody wants to be the The third president in American history to be impeached. Right? Nobody wants to be it's Andrew Johnson. It's Bill Clinton and then me and Richard Nixon of course resigned before he was impeached but he would have been so add Nixon to the list at least spiritually.

3 (15m 3s):
So there is a punishment here impeachment is going to be one of many parts of the Donald Trump presidency. It gives it a black mark in history and Donald Trump at different times. His actually said that he's said he doesn't want this to happen also say the perfectly for the Because remember this is the first impeachment in modern times that is happening in the president's first term Clinton and Nixon were both in the second term. So he was at they weren't going to face the voters again. Donald Trump will face the voters again, right and his popularity remains mostly unfazed by this at least with his base, but you and I have talked about that before. I wonder since this is a big momentous occasion for our country as you pointed out. This is only happened four times Johnson Nixon Clinton and now Trump.

3 (15m 45s):
How did our Republic look today? In the big bright lights that looks bad. This isn't just about Donald Trump. But we've had here is almost like a it's a test of the system. Right? Like we pulled a fire alarm when it's really easy to hear when you know, what's going on when you can't deny it anymore will we evacuate the building and the answer was no or at least the answer looks like it will ultimately be now and so yes to the extent this is a test to the extent. This is something that future Generations. Other countries are looking at American government and asking how does it perform under stress the answers that really doesn't so this whole process hasn't made you feel like okay.

3 (16m 27s):
There is some accountability in our system. No, imagine Democrats hadn't won a huge Landslide victory in 2018. So there would have been none of this. Number one. There would have been no impeachment hearings. No oversight coming out of House Republicans think Devin Nunes committee would have investigated Donald Trump over this. So one you see right there that we have. There's no automatic nature to our oversight. There is no Congress will keep the executive and check because that is congress's job. No matter who is running it then imagine. What if Donald Trump weren't so crude about all of it.

3 (17m 8s):
What if he just left? To his underlings What If instead of on his phone call with the Ukrainian president saying repeatedly just to be clear you will investigate Joe Biden for the javelin missiles, right? Thank you. Joe Biden. Do you hear me? Joe Biden? What if you hadn't done that? What are you just said you're gonna take care of the corruption problems. Right? Like like you've talked about with my team and the current president said sure there's a lot of evidence that the Ukrainian president was getting ready to go on CNN to make this announcement. And the scheme almost worked to some degree may still work, right? It may still harm Joe Biden while not really leading to any true consequence for Donald Trump.

3 (17m 48s):
I mean except for a public opinion consequence may be what if Donald Trump were just more capable about all of it. What if the people he hired or more capable does anything about this process make you think we have a defense for that? I mean we were so close to each other working all out. Right just us waking up one morning and on a one we just see an article Ukrainian government investigating job and Hunter Biden, right? That's it. Right and then I'll be like, oh, well, Joe Biden right on corruption. It's terrible and it just would have been the same thing. It was so close to working and that may be other things are working. Right? So this has been a test that were failing you can imagine the history books.

3 (18m 32s):
But look at this and say oh you can see there the rock that was taking over the party, right if like the fall of America's written in the future. I'm not saying that it will be because of Donald Trump. I don't think it will be but I do think that our political system is showing a kind of strain and stress and inability to respond to its current conditions that has often in other countries been the Prelude to True crisis. Ezra Klein hosts impeachment explained episodes come out every Saturday and you can be sure he'll discuss these two articles of impeachment further on this week's episode.

3 (19m 17s):
I'm Shawn Rama's from this is Ukraine explains. Thanks for listening to the show. Thanks to the quip electric toothbrush company for supporting the show today the quip electric toothbrush Believe It or Not starts at just $25 and your first set of refills is free. When you go to get quipped.com / explain that it's G ET Q UI p.com / explained