2 (0s):
I'm Sean Rama's forum. And this is a coronavirus update from today explain for Tuesday, March 24th, 2020. We're now approaching 400,000 confirmed cases of covid-19 around the world in something like a hundred and ninety four countries and territories. The Olympics have officially been postponed until 2021. This will only be the fourth time. Time the games have been canceled or postponed following the three times prior during the two World Wars a World Health Organization. Spokesperson says the United States has now the potential to become the next Centre of the crisis with almost 50,000 confirmed cases and many many more believed to be unreported on Monday covid-19 deaths in the United States surpassed a hundred in a single day for the first time the United States Surgeon General.

2 (58s):
Dr. Jerome Adams said this It's going to get bad. Meanwhile President Trump. Can't wait to get back to business as usual his new refrain appears to be the Cure cannot be worse than the problem. He says he's not looking at months of the country being shut down and has been calling for businesses to reopen sooner than expected and for people to get back to work. He proposed Easter which is just a few weeks away might not be a great idea in New York city where the White House is own coronavirus response coordinator. ER dr. Debra L. Brick said the attack rate which is the percentage of the population infected with the virus was nearly 1 in 1,000 in New York City.

2 (1m 41s):
That's five times higher than in other parts of the country and more cases per capita than Italy Public Health types are warning the rest of the country to take note of New York situation. Thomas are frieden who used to run the CDC and New York City's health department told the New York Times the question now is whether The rest of the US will learn from New York and avoid the situation that it is facing and is likely to get worse in the coming days and weeks meanwhile in India prime minister Narendra Modi ordered a complete lockdown for the entire country. He said many families will be destroyed forever. If the country didn't take control of its coronavirus outbreak in the next three weeks.

2 (2m 24s):
That's a country of 1.3 billion people, by the way, if you've got questions, we'll try to get you answers. Today explained and vox.com is the email address the show is at today underscore explained on Twitter and I'm a traumas firm. We also now have a phone number call us and leave a message at two. Oh two six eight eight five nine, four four. Nationwide 5G is here. Thanks to T-Mobile. They just build the first largest and only Nationwide 5G Network in America. Nobody else comes close T-Mobile's invested billions of dollars that's billions with Abby and u5g towers and cell sites across the country making their signal more reliable both indoors and out find out more about T-Mobile's Nationwide 5G Network at t - mobile.com.

2 (3m 19s):
That's t - mobile.com capable. Required coverage not available in some areas downlink. Only some uses may require certain plan or feature CT - mobile.com remember back in January when it was just China dealing with this then things got bad in Iran and Italy things got bad in South Korea, but they managed to flatten the curve and now the United States looks like the next major coronavirus crisis. It feels like it's sort of fully made its way around the world but along the way there were a few key spots that managed to outmaneuver covid-19 places you'd think would have been hit hard places like Taiwan.

2 (4m 3s):
One and Hong Kong and Singapore that have close ties to China but death tolls in the single digits. I asked Lisa Lynn how that happened. She covers Asia for the Wall Street Journal from Singapore

1 (4m 17s):
Taiwan Singapore and Hong Kong come with a bit of a history. All three of these countries had gone to a different coronavirus 17 years ago that coronavirus is broadly known as SARS the current Wuhan virus episode is revived. Having memories of the severe acute respiratory syndrome or the SAS crisis in 2003 and the coronavirus SARS hit all three countries pretty hard. In fact, if you tally up the death rate Singapore Hong Kong and Taiwan you probably get about close to half of the total number of deaths from stars during that period so, you know, once you know this history you subsequently also understand why the country's reacted the way they did and with such Eat as well.

2 (5m 8s):
We

1 (5m 8s):
had news of the coronavirus connect filter out somewhere close to the end of December and then Singapore Taiwan and Hong Kong start to respond probably in the middle of January Singapore and Taiwan in the early stages didn't do social distancing. So they kept offices open schools went on as normal early February end of January Singapore decide. Had to close its borders to China and that at that point was a pretty controversial move just simply because it was one of the first few countries to do it. In fact was the third country to do it after North Korea and Russia. And so that came as a little bit of a surprise I would say maybe five or six days later Taiwan followed

2 (5m 51s):
suit taiwan's response to covid-19 credits the islands Health officials for taking action early boarding flights and screening for sick passengers passengers now fill out hell Questionnaires on their phones while at the gate

1 (6m 5s):
they closed their borders to Chinese Travelers

2 (6m 7s):
Taiwan also tied together electronic patient files to immigration records following up with those at risk based on their travel history texting them to self isolate if needed and checking up in person threatening fines. If orders are ignored

1 (6m 23s):
Singapore and Taiwan have followed a more similar trajectory in the way. They handle the virus outbreak. They also set up very very Very detailed contact tracing when an infectious disease occurs, you want to put a stop or Corral the disease as early as possible and for that you need to find out who's carrying the disease who might be carrying the disease and this is where contact tracing comes in you want to trace who are these people who might be carrying a disease and who are the confirmed cases and then retrace your steps in the last two weeks before they found out they had the disease who did they meet where they go which were the places they huh?

1 (7m 3s):
Now and finally these setup cross-department Task Force One in Taiwan one in Singapore. They basically acted as a conductor to an orchestra. So Taiwan and Singapore put in place and past Force so they got everyone together in one place and they're making decisions together collectively and they're putting it out quickly Hong Kong to Suitor a different approach Hong Kong closed schools civil. Aaron's in Hong Kong were asked to work from home and if you understand the dynamic in Hong Kong, the private companies typically take the cue from civil servants and how the Hong Kong government handles its Workforce.

1 (7m 44s):
So many private companies got their employees to work from home as well. So this part of social distancing was very effective for Hong Kong in its early stages.

2 (7m 56s):
Okay. So Singapore Taiwan and Hong Kong take a mix of measures including closing borders contact tracing setting up task forces and social distancing. How does that affect how many covid-19 cases they see

1 (8m 11s):
ya at the start. It was hugely successful. I have the single out. I wanna hear I mean by the middle of February they were going like six days without any cases Singapore took a little bit longer, but End of February there was a day where we were announcing. No new cases Hong Kong as well. People were starting to kind of loosen up a little bit going out having dinners. Maybe have someone over a close friend of something

2 (8m 40s):
which is to say that they managed to sort of contain the virus people felt

1 (8m 44s):
confident. Definitely. I wasn't physically in Taiwan or Hong Kong, but I can tell you for Singapore, you know people in the early stages there were definitely more. People wearing masks there is like Panic buying of hand sanitizer disinfectants and stuff by the time in February rolled around people would definitely more relaxed. You could feel like visibly no one was eyeing each other with suspicion whenever you were coughing, but that's it. You know, the Singapore government was really good with Rich communication. They said up front if you were 60 at home. So I think towards the end of February you weren't even hearing anyone sneeze or cough on the subway, which is kind of very

2 (9m 26s):
Shirring can the rest of the world learned something from Singapore from Taiwan and Hong Kong

1 (9m 32s):
online. I'm seeing a lot of people say Singapore Hong Kong and Taiwan are small cities, you know, their experience can be replicated and in the west and much bigger countries like in the United States for example, but I feel that kind of misplaced people think Singapore Hong Kong and Taiwan were so successful because the Galatians small people feel like the population has a high trust in the government and was blindly following. I mean, I personally feel small populations are great for disease monitoring and surveillance. But I feel like the small populations had nothing to do with the fact that the countries responded really quickly the fact that the countries were very prepared for this infectious disease

2 (10m 19s):
and how does that compare to what you're seeing in the west?

1 (10m 23s):
I personally feel like the biggest difference. Is in the population and how they're reacting to these new measures.

2 (10m 33s):
People themselves are dreading any return to the dark days of SARS.

1 (10m 37s):
That is Europe. We are crowded City. It will be terrifying if it comes here and gone. The last could be like stars again. If it is, I will stay away from the

2 (10m 47s):
crowd if it happens. I'll wear a mask and do more work from

1 (10m 53s):
home. Okay. So because after sauce these three countries which were very badly hit during sauce. They beefed up their Health Care System. They added more quarantine. The ladies for example the new the importance of using personal protective equipment Mass gloves on health care workers in Taiwan actually very enviable. They repurposed factories to make my ass so there wouldn't be a mass shortage and they kept the prices of mass down. So there's a cap on the prices of the Mask in Singapore was pretty similar with the government here at did was to give every house whole for, Mass.

1 (11m 33s):
Ass so, you know just to kind of calm the paranoia come to panic buying in Hong Kong Singapore and Taiwan people listened to the government not because they wanted to listen to the government if you've been following what's happening in Hong Kong in the last one year, you know that the people there don't blindly listen to the government, but they were afraid in Singapore. There were 33 people who died from SARS in 2003 in Hong Kong. 300 so I feel people were scared and they stayed home and it had nothing to do with the government this had everything to do with going through

2 (12m 11s):
SARS. After the break Lisa will explain the risk of a second wave in places that already feel like this crisis is behind them. It's today explained. If you are into getting food delivered to your house before this whole crisis, I can't imagine how into it you are now because I mean I imagine getting food delivered to your house at this point is probably one of the only ways you can even support your favorite restaurants and maybe even save them from going under in this crisis.

2 (13m 0s):
No joke door - might be one way to help a lot of your local favorites might already be on door - they got something like 300,000 rest. On Partners across four thousand cities in these United States and elsewhere. So right now listeners to take explained get five dollars off their first order of $15 or more when you download the door - app and enter the code explained if you're in the market for a new app considered door - you get five dollars off your first order when you download the door - app in the app store and enter the code explained that CX.

2 (13m 41s):
spla iined by

1 (13m 49s):
This is Advertiser content as a journalist. I'm part of the problem. We reduce people to 1 minute 14 News packages. I've done it. I've done it myself about my own people newsrooms are tasked with covering the whole world, but they don't represent it more than three-quarters of all Newsroom employees in the US are white and three out of five of them are men. This has an impact that voice you heard is Nella for hidayat. She's a journalist a 30-something Millennial women of And the Muslim Now look for is the host of course correction a podcast from Doha debates and Qatar Foundation. It seeks to include the voices were not hearing in the conversations.

1 (14m 29s):
We are all having around important Global issues, but I was 15 years old and I was watching the news and documentaries. It was like this big tall white man who's telling me what the brown people think right and I'm the brown people and it would be presented to us as fact. So the course correction podcast is basically my attempt At trying to change

2 (14m 50s):
things

1 (14m 53s):
a classic journalism Trope is the view from nowhere a single journalist certain of their impartiality presenting information as fact, but there's always a view from somewhere to now offer that personal experience is a feature not a bug we all come with a set of biases. It's about taking personal responsibility. Not just as an individual not just as mean elephant a person but as a journalist to Report accurately and truthfully be a part of the conversation for change. Listen to course correction wherever you get your podcasts.

2 (15m 36s):
Okay, Lisa. So Hong Kong Singapore Taiwan. They manage this crisis comparatively very well. Are they in the clear now, or are they still at risk can people just run around in the Parks and give each other hugs and kisses or is there still major concern about this this outbreak spreading?

1 (15m 57s):
They're not in the clear yet. In fact, we've been seeing over. The last one week or so Singapore and Hong Kong and Taiwan actually hit new highs in terms of the number of daily new recorded cases. And

2 (16m 9s):
so you're saying it's like a you're saying this is like a second

1 (16m 12s):
wave. Yes, I would call that a second wave

2 (16m 16s):
fears are growing in Hong Kong of a

1 (16m 18s):
second wave of coronavirus. The territory had been successful in containing the first outbreak, but new cases have spiked in recent days the territory reported a record jump and coronavirus cases as thousands. Has returned home from overseas. A lot of the world is currently going under lockdown. It's almost like an anti-globalization of some sort. You know, everyone was gone overseas to work is kind of looking to come back home and it's the same for like Singapore Hong Kong and Taiwan in the case of Singapore in the last one week or so. The country has recalled a large number of students who have gone overseas on exchange for example, so we're seeing a lot of these People return home and they've been coming home from places hard hit by the coronavirus from the UK from Germany from the US.

1 (17m 10s):
So we're actually seeing the number of cases go up but it's not because of local transmission. It's not one person walking in the middle of the central business district in Singapore spreading to other people. It's more of these Travelers or these citizens coming back home and they're bringing the virus

2 (17m 28s):
home. So in these second, Waves in these three regions how many cases have we seen so far?

1 (17m 35s):
Yes, I would say the second wave probably began last Monday and you have been seeing any new highs new daily highs and all three places from there. So right now I think we have Singapore standing just above five hundred cases in Hong Kong above 300 and in Taiwan where about 200 cases doesn't sound like a lot when you see the number of cases in the US and the west but you know, it was a big jump. like the beginning of

2 (18m 2s):
March Okay, so you stablished that Taiwan Singapore and Hong Kong were able to do really effective containment of covid-19. The first time around are they are they having really good luck the second time around too.

1 (18m 20s):
Well, the second time around the results we've yet to see the successfulness or the effectiveness of the strategy just simply because people are still returning but at least what the government's and these Places are doing is they're acting to close their borders even further than it was before like originally it was shut to China meat parts of Korea parts of Europe that were hard hit by the virus, but now in all three places no foreigners allowed to enter in the airport's which, you know in the case of Singapore and Hong Kong are big Transit airports. They are not taking Transit passengers either and any Resident or citizen returning to the country.

1 (19m 5s):
Entry has to be quarantined for two weeks. So I would say we don't know how this new wave is going to end but the three governments are putting in measures to make sure the virus is

2 (19m 17s):
contained. The United States is really struggling with social distancing people. Just don't seem to get it here and in Canada, the prime minister is threatening to involve law enforcement to help Canadians get it. How are they enforcing it over there?

1 (19m 32s):
It's hard to put a broad brush stroke. Talk about all three countries together. I would say the government and all three regions are definitely taking steps to just make sure quarantines being enforced and they're doing it through a variety of ways one is just digital surveillance. For example in Hong Kong the issue these wristbands that you have to wear. If you come back to the country and you're serving out a quarantine notice and the wristbands basically flag to the government that if your left Left that area of quarantine sends a notice to health authorities who then come and check that you're where you're supposed to be in Singapore.

1 (20m 15s):
What's really quite interesting that they rolled out recently is an app. They named it Trace together the idea about this app is everyone downloads the app and using a Bluetooth signal if you come into contact with someone within like a certain radius. Two meters if you come within 2 meter so me and we hang out for half an hour. I'll phones store the fact that we have had that interaction creepy and should should the person I'm meeting come down with the virus then authorities go into that person's phone the check the app to figure out who's who he who he or she's been in contact with and then use that for contact tracing.

1 (21m 0s):
So in a way it's digital contact tracing instead of interviewing someone to figure out who Ooh, he or she's been hanging out with they look at the phone. They look at Digital Data to do it instead what the government says is they don't store that information. All that information is stored on your phone. I think they're quite conscious of the fact that people do value their privacy and they mentioned that users can up out of the app. But even even despite them saying all this I still feel a bit skeptical because the whole idea sounds like you're signing up for signing yourself up to be

2 (21m 33s):
surveilled. Yeah. With you how our Hong Kong Taiwan and Singapore has less wealthy neighbors fairing right now.

1 (21m 44s):
So now we're actually seeing other countries in the region like for Southeast Asia, for example, they're getting their first wave. So while Singapore Hong Kong and Taiwan are going into the second wave we're seeing Thailand for example Philippines Indonesia. Now, they're going to their first wave. It's also a matter of test kits in the early days these countries Probably were not testing as much as they should be whereas Singapore Hong Kong and Taiwan were pretty rabid about testing and testing frequencies. So now we're actually seeing the other countries in the region starting to discover that maybe they had covid patients walking around within the population even before this month in the case of Malaysia, which put in movement restrictions earlier this month.

1 (22m 30s):
We're seeing about a hundred new cases daily. So they've And put hit pretty hard close 2,600 cases at this point. Nick's worst-hit is Thailand Thailand has more than 700 cases and Indonesia and Indonesia is a nation of 270 million people that's a huge country and they don't have enough test kits. So right now they have reported about 700 cases, but in reality that's probably also because they haven't been testing

2 (23m 3s):
enough if they don't have the Tests or the apps or the you know surveillance infrastructure, whatever it might be. Can they still take something away from Hong Kong or Singapore Taiwan?

1 (23m 13s):
So I would say that if there's any take away from the second wave I would say Hong Kong Singapore and taiwan's experience probably shows to the rest of the world that the virus is something you have to deal with in the long term.

2 (23m 33s):
It's not going to be

1 (23m 34s):
like a short haul. Aim, you know a one month one off thing where you have to stay at home or wash your hands or just practice better hygiene. I think what the region of Hong Kong is showing is that this is definitely something that's going to be with us for a while and we can't let down our guard because once we let down our guard then the virus just comes back again.

2 (24m 13s):
Lisa Lynn is a reporter for the Wall Street Journal. She usually writes about tech but lately like most of us she's been doing a lot of reporting on the coronavirus. I'm Sean Rama's from this is today explained.

1 (24m 45s):
If there was a spreadable clickable bakeable plant-based butter that was better for your body and the planet what would you make with it butter cookies butter pie? That's a thing by the way, whatever. It is Country Crock plant butter makes it happen and makes it delicious Country Crock plant butter is so tasty even butter lovers love it. You can use it as a one-to-one substitute for dairy butter in all of your favorite recipes and enjoy it knowing it has 25% less. Saturated fat than regular old dairy butter to try it for yourself. Use the store locator at Country Crock.com / plant - butter today.

2 (25m 28s):
I see a lot of people out there on the internet talking about. Oh, I need more stuff to listen to who's got recommendations. I'm at home all day. I want podcasts. Well Have you listened to stay tuned with preach? It's all about Justice power law democracy. Probably coronavirus this point the host preet bharara. He led the southern district of New York the most storied Federal prosecutor's office in the country. He's got you know, he's got a signature. That way about him. He's got an aura he's got calm. He's got wit and he answers audience questions and speaks with the people who happen to be shaping history right now previous guests include Sally Yates Bryan Stevenson, and some guy named Pete buthe judge, never heard of him.

2 (26m 15s):
Listen now to stay tuned with preet wherever you listen to your podcast where you listen to this one right now, check out stay tuned with preet. I bet you could find it. Bye.