0 (1s):
Last Friday, we got the news that Roe V. Wade had been overturned by the Supreme court. My first thought was to call a Jane. I asked her if she had heard the news,

1 (15s):
What news

0 (19s):
This Jane had fought for women's rights in the 1960s, equal pay childcare, the right to choose the right to have an abortion. She helped women get illegal abortions in Chicago in the late sixties, early seventies, before Roe V. Wade. Last Friday, I was the one who told her Roe V. Wade had been overturned.

2 (41s):
Women are still going to have abortions. That's not going to change anything. That's not going to change a damn thing.

Moxie (51s):
I'm Sean Ramez for my conversation with Jane is coming up on today's explained support for the show. Today comes from Moxie. Moxie is a non-partisan social platform designed for civic engagement. American residents can easily access info on their own elections, ballots and elected representatives. That sounds super useful. Get Moxie free for 30 days, or use the promo code Vox Vox to get Moxie premium for 90 days. Search Moxie, M O X Y in the app store or visit the website at M O X Y dot L I V E like live or perhaps live

Google (1m 39s):
For over 20 years. Google has been helping protect Americans from cybersecurity threats, from turning two-step verification on by default for 150 million people, which adds an additional layer of account security with a single tap to protecting new sites and human rights organizations with project shield. Google is building advanced technologies that raise the bar for the entire industry and help make the whole internet safer for everyone. Learn more@safety.google.

5 (2m 13s):
Sorry, I don't know if he ever shoe on or shoe off household.

2 (2m 17s):
That is some kind of bike.

5 (2m 19s):
Thank you.

2 (2m 20s):
Oh, that's a beautiful piece of equipment to bank.

0 (2m 22s):
So the first thing you need to know about this, Jane is that her name? Isn't actually Jane it's Eleanor

2 (2m 29s):
Eleanor. All of her. I live in Northwest Washington. And what more do you want to know about me?

0 (2m 38s):
But Eleanor is one of the Jains. This group of women that helped other women get safe, illegal abortions in Chicago in the late 1960s and early seventies before Roe V Wade. And last Friday, the day, the Supreme court overturned Roe. Almost 50 years later, I showed up at her apartment to talk, what did you make of it when heard it?

2 (2m 60s):
I'm still stewing over it, but you don't. Women are still going to have abortions. That's not going to change anything. That's not going to change a damn thing. Women are still going to have abortions, except they won't have the security of knowing that it will be safe. There'll be medically safe, socially safe. You know, that the person providing the abortion won't take advantage of them in other ways, which was one of the major things years ago,

0 (3m 31s):
I asked Eleanor to tell me about years ago.

2 (3m 36s):
Well, my husband was doing graduate work at the university of Chicago, and I was looking for something to do. It was 1968, and a lot of stuff was going on.

6 (3m 48s):
There were, and he warned them in three PHIMS on college campuses. And instead he's from Los Angeles to Washington

7 (3m 54s):
And they see news is learning. The national space agency has decided the next Apollo flight will go to the moon. It'll not land, but a crew of three man inside their spacecraft was circled them on about 60 miles from it and then returned to their,

8 (4m 10s):
That means we on a walk side-by-side with you through y'all, we're going to be with dignity and integrity. We don't want any more than you have. I mean, I've got to accept any less than you had as out.

9 (4m 30s):
I have some very sad news for all of you. And that is that Martin Luther king was shot and was killed tonight. Martin Luther king dedicated his life to love and to justice between fellow human beings. He died in the cause of that effort.

6 (4m 59s):
Ladies and gentlemen we've kept the air on because we've heard an alarming report that Robert Kennedy was shot in that ballroom at the ambassador hotel in Los Angeles,

2 (5m 9s):
We had a consciousness raising group, group of women. And one of the things we got really hung up on was abortion. And we went from consciousness raising to helping other women find safe, legal, illegal, actually affordable abortions,

0 (5m 27s):
Safe and affordable in contrast to the status quo.

2 (5m 31s):
Most of the young women of childbearing age have no idea what it was like to be pressured into having sex and then getting pregnant. And then having no way of dealing with the pregnancy.

0 (5m 47s):
I asked Eleanor how these women got abortions back in the day before Roe V. Wade.

2 (5m 53s):
Well, you pick out the people, you, you know, that you might have connections that are kind of a little bit savvy that know people that maybe you wouldn't possibly know because you were just a college kid and you, you just ask, you say, do you know any place where I can have an abortion where I can get an abortion? I need, I need an abortion. You would probably go to somebody's apartment or a motel. And a certainly wouldn't be in the cheapest part of town unless you were paying for the Sheik is part of Tom.

2 (6m 36s):
Then you would go to a nice doctor's office. And even then, I mean, he might have a white coat on and he might have an MD shield on his door. He might have the wall hung with degrees from medical schools, but you had you, weren't going to you, weren't going to check up to see whether he really was an MD or not. You wanted that you wanted that abortion. And, and he would give it to me right there in the office.

0 (7m 3s):
As Eleanor tells it, this was kind of the best case scenario. You could go to the mob and try and get an abortion. They might put you in touch with a shady doctor. They might put you in touch with a good doctor. The experience would vary greatly based on how much money you had in your pocket. And if you wanted the Cadillac abortion, the price was steep

2 (7m 22s):
Fight anywhere from between 500 and a thousand dollars in 1968, some of them were being sold. A bill of goods. Many of them spent a lot of money on pills that were supposed to cause a spontaneous abortion, but probably didn't. And some of them were being left to bleed to death.

0 (7m 43s):
And this is where she and her friends thought they could make a difference.

2 (7m 47s):
We were basically white middle class college educated women. And we were objecting to the Vietnam war and we were going on marches and one thing and another, and then we sort of got together on women's issues. And there were a lot of women's issues, equal pay for equal work childcare and that, and you know, there's still the same issues.

0 (8m 10s):
They want it to up their involvement instead of just talking and protesting, let's do something, let's start providing women with illegal abortions.

2 (8m 21s):
This was Chicago. You could do anything in Chicago, as long as you weren't making outrageous amounts of money and you weren't hurting anybody. And the police left you alone because they had girlfriends that got pregnant. They had wives who already had three children and didn't want anymore. They had mouths to feed.

0 (8m 43s):
Do you start advertising it? How do you do that?

2 (8m 47s):
We actually have a brochure and I have a copy of the brochure.

0 (8m 53s):
Do you have it?

2 (8m 54s):
Yeah. You want to see

0 (8m 54s):
It? Can I see it? Yeah, let's see it.

2 (8m 58s):
Yeah. It's when you go into my bedroom, there's a picture on the opposite wall of the Jane poster that we, that we marched under for the women's March on Washington and just bring the whole, bring whole picture in. Cause that's got a taped on the back, the F

0 (9m 21s):
To pieces,

2 (9m 23s):
Alright, this is the brochure. This is, this is how dumb we are. We would run these off. This was run off a, a resistance press. A guy had a printing press set up in the basement of an old, an old house on the campus of the university of Chicago. And he was down there all day long running stuff, got cut, took checks. We must have printed millions of these things.

0 (9m 53s):
Okay. Let's see. What's the title there.

2 (9m 56s):
Abortion a woman's decision, a woman's right. And there's a whole, the whole philosophy, a

0 (10m 2s):
Lot of pros

2 (10m 5s):
And here

0 (10m 6s):
And graphics, just the text.

2 (10m 8s):
It's just an eight and a half by 11 inch piece of paper folded in into four sides. And here it is Chicago women's liberation union. And there's their address? The abortion counseling service.

0 (10m 20s):
That was the official name, abortion counseling service. But everyone came to know them by another.

2 (10m 27s):
There were no cell phones in those days, there were just landlines. So we were, we meeting in my house and I said, well, you can use our phone, but you know, I don't want to have our personal calls get mixed up with the service calls. So why don't we say, call this number and ask for Jane. And I didn't know anybody named Jane and I thought nobody was named Jane anymore. Six, four, three, three eight, four four.

0 (11m 1s):
Who picked up the phone?

2 (11m 3s):
Usually I did.

0 (11m 5s):
It was you.

2 (11m 6s):
Well, my husband, if my husband was a home alone, he would pick it up because he was home all day working on his, on his dissertation.

0 (11m 13s):
You were saying that was your phone

2 (11m 14s):
Number. That was my phone number. That was our phone number. Yeah, that was, that was in our apartment for all you folks in Chicago, 5,700 block of Kimbark street.

0 (11m 23s):
So you handed out, it sounds like tons of these things in Chicago.

2 (11m 27s):
Whenever we had a speak out on a woman's issue, we brought along a whole stack of them. We had stacks of these in the, in the dormitories. There were several rather liberal churches. So we had a little stack of them in the narthex of the church.

0 (11m 43s):
And so was your phone ringing all day or how often did you get calls?

2 (11m 48s):
Oh, not at first. It took a while for things to get picked, to pick up. And if you pick it up and they asked for land or Eleanor, well, and we knew it was a personal call or face it I'd like to speak with Jane, please, I'll take your name and number and I'll have her call you, or I'll have one of her contacts call you. And then we would write those down on three by five cards. We would have a meeting. We would pass out these three by five cards. And I would take, you know, people that I thought I could counsel or people that were nearby or people that I could meet with or could relate to.

2 (12m 28s):
One of them was a police woman from Chicago. I took a lot of the middle-aged women because I was one of the older, older counselors. And, and I was married and a lot of the counselors were, were graduate students and undergraduate students. Everybody took people that they thought they could, you know, although this person lives in my dorm or, or, or I don't want to do this person because I, I know her and I don't think she wants me to know that. Yeah, that kind of thing, you know, and how, and, and they had to trust us. We had an abortionist.

2 (13m 9s):
We knew he was not a real doctor. He was just a nice guy. And he, Mike Mike was his name. I think he probably learned how to perform abortions, either as a medic in the military, there were a lot of people, I guess, that needed abortions or who had girlfriends, who needed abortions when, when they were in the military. I don't know. I never been in the military.

0 (13m 37s):
How many years does this go on for?

2 (13m 40s):
We left Chicago in 1972, early 1972. And the day we drove out of Chicago was a Saturday. I believe it seems to me it was a Saturday. Maybe it wasn't. They were, they were raided and busted. So

0 (13m 60s):
I whom this, sorry, you

2 (14m 2s):
Mean the police,

0 (14m 3s):
The abortion counseling service, the Jane's were raided and busted

2 (14m 7s):
Because somebody complained and the police, they didn't bother them because they weren't hurting anybody. We weren't hurting anybody. We weren't making loads of money off of people. And they wanted us around because they probably might've needed us to, you never know, but somebody's sister-in-law was getting an abortion and they found that immoral or whatever. They took it upon themselves to complain to the police and with the complaint the police had to act. So the police raided the place that all this was happening. And my husband and I were driving out Stony island avenue to the interstate to come to Washington.

2 (14m 56s):
And for the longest time, I had the biggest guilt complex about that

0 (15m 2s):
Because your friends got arrested. Yeah. Did they get sent to jail prison?

2 (15m 6s):
No, because what happened was they got themselves a very bright, intelligent lawyer who kept delaying and delaying and delaying until finally Roe versus Wade was passed. And then the judge threw the case out.

0 (15m 24s):
How many abortions do you think you helped women get in the time you guys were active?

2 (15m 30s):
Well, they have a record of 11,000 abortions,

0 (15m 34s):
11,001,

2 (15m 36s):
One comma, 0, 0, 0.

0 (15m 41s):
Was there any organization at the time that helped as many women as you did?

2 (15m 46s):
We don't know. Cause it was illegal.

0 (16m 2s):
My conversation with Eleanor Oliver also known as a Jane continues in a minute on today, explained

BalanceUS (16m 21s):
The Coca-Cola company. Keurig Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before from sparkling flavored and bottled waters to zero sugar, sports drinks, teas and sodas, consumers are taking advantage of these choices. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold, contain zero sugar to learn more, visit balance U s.org.

Bleecker Street (16m 46s):
This podcast is supported by Bleecker street, presenting the upcoming film, Mr. Malcolm's list. It's 18, 18, and London's most eligible bachelor, Jeremy Malcolm, as a list of requirements for a bride after failing to make the cut Julia fissile rate seeks revenge by convincing her friend Selena Dolton to play the role of his ideal match. But as Selena starts having feelings of her own for Mr. Malcolm getting even starts getting complicated, starring Frieda, Pinto, xAPI, dura, Sue Oliver, Jackson Cohen, and Ashley Park with Zoe, Ashton and Theo. James, Mr. Malcolm's list. Now playing only in theaters

14 (17m 34s):
Do they explained yeah.

0 (17m 37s):
Ma

15 (17m 38s):
Mom <inaudible> mom. <inaudible>

0 (17m 46s):
So Eleanor, you leave Chicago. You come to DC and it sounds like within a year, if not less, the Supreme court decides Roe V. Wade, tell me where you were that day. What went through your mind

2 (18m 1s):
Relief? And I thought, great. Everybody can go back to life as it was before all this started. And of course that didn't last very long.

16 (18m 13s):
The people here who call themselves pro-choice their definition of pro-choice is abortion. At any time. For any reason,

17 (18m 21s):
I have voted seven to two. The court agreed to uphold three of four restrictions on abortions in Pennsylvania.

18 (18m 27s):
We must not rest. And I pledge to you that I will not rest until a human life. Amendment becomes a part of our constant,

19 (18m 36s):
The law known as Senate bill eight, prohibits abortions. After six weeks, it also allows people to Sue abortion providers and people who help others get them. These lawsuits could win plaintiffs up to $10,000.

20 (18m 49s):
The impact of today's ruling will be immediate. 13 states have trigger laws that automatically end access to abortion. Now that Roe is overturned.

0 (18m 60s):
I called you this morning and I woke you up. Unfortunately, I apologize for that.

2 (19m 4s):
Well that's cause I didn't go to bed until six

0 (19m 6s):
O'clock. Right. And I gave you the news that the Supreme court had overturned. Roe V. Wade. What went through your head?

2 (19m 14s):
I think I probably said something like that. Oh, oh shoot.

0 (19m 17s):
Yeah.

2 (19m 19s):
Well, we'll just, we'll just reorganize, you know, at 84, I think I've done my share on this. I think it's my daughters and my granddaughters who have to fight this. And I hope that I have inspired those to succeeding generations, that they will go out and do that.

0 (19m 41s):
After I got off the phone with you this morning, I went down to the Supreme court and I was taking it all in. There were people out there who were celebrating and there were far more people out there protesting. And the sign that struck a chord that I really kind of focused on when I saw it over and over and over again, it was young women holding up a sign that said I will aid and ABET abortions.

2 (20m 8s):
See what I see what I'm mean? They're out there. It's going to happen. They're already probably looking for their contacts. They're already setting it up. I don't know how I can help, but I would like to talk to those young women, if nothing else, to let them know what can be done.

0 (20m 26s):
What would you tell them?

2 (20m 28s):
I would say, first of all, don't give up because we're out there. There are a lot of people who think like you, you are not alone. Find like-minded women. Get together. Talk about the issues. And eventually groups will form. We'll get right back to 1968. We'll get back to our consciousness. Raising groups. We'll get back to all the issues that women are. I mean, women are still fighting equal pay for equal work. And that was an issue. Back in 1968, they're still fighting childcare in the workplace.

0 (21m 6s):
There were a lot of people out there, certainly not the majority, but there were people out there celebrating, blowing, bubbles, jumping up and down for joy

2 (21m 15s):
Until they get pregnant until they get unintentionally pregnant. I had people sitting in my living room saying, you know, nice Roman Catholic, young women saying, oh, I never thought I would be doing this, but I can't have this. I can't have this child.

0 (21m 40s):
What do you think? All those people out there celebrating today, don't understand about this now. Bygone constitutional right to have an abortion.

2 (21m 50s):
Oh, they probably either. They never will. They will always think it's it's a sin. Now. I shouldn't say it's a sin. I mean, I don't, I don't think an abortion is a nice idea and it would be nice if you didn't have to terminate an unwanted pregnancy, but it happens. Women only hold up half the sky. Let's be honest here because they don't get pregnant by themselves. So men should be a little more aware of what they're asking women to do when they ask for favors. When they ask for a brief moment of comfort, this becomes a life long experience for the woman that gets left behind.

2 (22m 39s):
And I don't think people think about that until, until they're a woman and they get left behind.

0 (22m 49s):
There are people out there who were getting very emotional in this moment who were, who were scared and you don't actually seem scared. You seem rather confident to me.

2 (22m 57s):
Well, I know how I know how things unfolded 50 years ago. And I'm sure I I'm hoping because of the contacts and the, and the means of communication that we now all have, that things won't take 50 years to get established. I'm hoping that the communicate communications network will spring up a lot sooner than it, than it did then, because all we had was a landline, a landline, and you picked up the receiver and you put your finger on the little hole and you dial the little will. Number everybody hasn't and abortion is a need. It's just a medical procedure, termination of an unplanned pregnancy calling an abortion.

2 (23m 43s):
And if you write it with a capital, a, you know, if he comes like a Scarlet letter or something, and it certainly shouldn't be, it's much safer than a tonsillectomy.

0 (24m 13s):
Eleanor Oliver, Washington, DC. She was once a Jane. There's a documentary about that group on HBO right now, it's called the Jains. I made today's show with lots of help from Victoria Chamberlain and a little help from Halima Shaw. We were edited by Matthew Collette and engineered by a FIM Shapiro. Thanks to Janice Gibson for putting me in touch with Eleanor I'm. Sean Rama's from the rest of the team here today. Explained includes Avishai artsy, Heidi, Milwaukee, D miles, Bryan, Laura Bullard, Paul mousey, and my cohost Noel king. We had extra help this week from John errands. Our supervising producer is Amina <inaudible>.

0 (24m 52s):
VP of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson. Our audio fellow is Tori Domingez. She became an aunt today. Congratulations to all involved. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and know I'm Hassenfeld. And today the penguin cafe orchestra today explained is on the radio in partnership with w NYC. And we are part of the Vox media podcast network. The podcast is off for a few days on account of independence day back on the 6th of July, which is a Wednesday I believe, take care.