0 (1s):
Support for the children. It comes from another show. It's called margins of error. Our world is made up of data, numbers and calculations, but do you really understand what they all mean? Harry enten from CNN might understand a little more than you, and he wants to get to the bottom of it all on his new podcast. It's called margins of error. Henton explores the interesting, surprising, and unusual statistics that make up our world. You can dive deep into the numbers with margins of error, wherever you listen.

2 (36s):
The impact of efforts to tackle pet homelessness can be hard to quantify. That's why Mars pet care partnered with animal welfare experts to develop the first ever state of pet homelessness index. It's a data-driven tool that measures the scale of the pet homelessness problem. It looks at the issue on a country level. It also identifies the most impactful underlying issues influencing it. The index launches on November 9th, with data that policymakers, researchers, and others can use to inform action focused on addressing pet homelessness, go to end pet homelessness.com to learn more today.

0 (1m 15s):
Today's show is about the tragedy at Astroworld festival in Houston. It's got some strong language and descriptions of some deadly scenes from this past weekend's concerts. We will begin in a moment. It's really hard to wrap your head around what happened at Astroworld this weekend, but it's even harder if you don't know anything about Travis Scott. So let's start there.

3 (1m 50s):
Hey, this here with all the ice on it, both at the gate outside, when they pull up, they give me those jump out. Boys as Nike boys, I've been not coach this shit way to be when we pulled up, give me the note.

0 (2m 4s):
He's from Houston, he's got a baby with the Kardashians or a Jenner or whatever. He's one of the most popular rappers in the world. But as rappers go, he's pretty punk rock. He's got a real anti-authority pension for gnarly mosh pits and chaos at his concerts. And that has gotten him in some trouble back at his 2015 Lollapalooza set. He encouraged fans to hop over barricades and rush the stage. Leading a chant of we want rain. That's that lasted about five minutes before it got shut down.

4 (2m 41s):
Astroworld festival chaos earlier today, a stampede to get into the venue. Three people were hurt that forced police to bring in extra officers for

0 (2m 51s):
Control at the last Astro world in 2019, multiple fans were injured in a stampede, but that did not deter Travis Scott fans. This time footage of some of the chaos from Astroworld 2019 was used in the promotional video for Astroworld 2021.

1 (3m 9s):
When the festival opened its doors today so much strong and we got in the district.

0 (3m 15s):
So that's how things looked heading into the festival in Houston. This past weekend, Houston police knew this was a tinderbox.

5 (3m 25s):
Well, at the very least, we know that some public safety officials were at least headed on their radar and were concerned.

0 (3m 32s):
Barnard Smith reports on law enforcement at the Houston

5 (3m 36s):
Chief, Troy Finner. He's our police chief. He released a statement yesterday saying that he had met with Travis Scott and his head of security on Friday before the main event. And he said that he was concerned about just the energy. And you said I've never seen a time with more challenges facing citizens of all ages to include a global pandemic and social tension throughout the nation. And that he had asked Travis Scott and his team to work with HPD. That's the Houston police department going into Astro week and the festival.

0 (4m 10s):
And almost as soon as this started, or even before there was music,

5 (4m 15s):
There was chaos. There was a video all over social media at around 2:00 PM on Friday, have, you know, hundreds of fans busting through security, fencing and barriers, trying to get into the Astro world.

0 (4m 31s):
And some of these fans are trampling over other fans and just continuing on like sprinting. Exactly. Yeah. They weren't taking time to make sure people were okay that, you know, your, your fellow man was getting up on his feet and making it out of that crowd. Yeah.

5 (4m 48s):
People pouring through this fencing and like, you know, definitely mayhem already.

0 (4m 59s):
When does this actual concert begin? And when does it turn down?

5 (5m 4s):
The concert is underway by eight o'clock or eight 30, or what have you, At 9:06 PM. Scott comes on stage And you've got a crowd of 60,000 people. Right? And so up to that point, there had been, you know, there'd been a lot of people, there've been a lot of enthusiasm. There'd been, you know, several hundred people treated for various kind of injuries.

5 (5m 46s):
Right. But it hadn't seemed like completely out of control. Right? So around nine, the Houston fire chief, his name Sam Pena, chief Pena has said that the crowd sort of began to compress towards the front of the stage. And that is sort of when things start to get really bad, nine 15 on is when you're seeing those videos of like the ambulance going through the crowd or like people falling out, people, fainting, people getting chest compressions down on them because they've, they've gone unconscious and stopped breathing As best we can tell at nine 30 that's when an ambulance was moving through the crowd, Travis Scott acknowledges that the ambulance stops performing, asks the crowd to make group And then immediately starts performing again.

6 (6m 56s):
Oh shit, God damn it.

5 (6m 60s):
Eight minutes later, Houston fire officials declare a mass casualty incident at that point is when you, I think would reasonably expect the event to end. And from there, the concert continues for another 37 minutes

6 (7m 26s):
Right here.

5 (7m 28s):
And then Drake comes onto the stage At 10 0 8. They're launching into sicko mode. And finally at 10 15, the show ends with goosebumps.

0 (8m 5s):
Do we have any idea how this concert went on after a quote mass casualty incident was reported? I think this is the thing it's so hard to wrap your head around.

5 (8m 19s):
The one explanation that I've heard about it in all of this is that officials call the mass casualty incident, but they were concerned about shutting it down right away because they were concerned that it might incite a riot.

0 (8m 34s):
What do we know about those who died at this, at this

5 (8m 37s):
Concert on Monday, the Harris county medical examiner finally released the names of the, the eight victims. They ranged in age from 14 years old to 27 years old.

6 (8m 50s):
These are the eight victims. The youngest John Hilgert was just 14

7 (8m 55s):
Student at Memorial high school. And the oldest was 27 year old Danish back from Dallas. He died saving his fiance.

5 (9m 4s):
So there's a 14 year old boys, 16 year old girl, a 20 year old to 21 year olds to 23 year old and a 27 year old. You know, if you look at the video or you talk to concert goers, it just seems like there just wasn't enough precautions to prevent this from happening. I mean, there are a lot of concerts that happen across the U S all the time, right? You don't normally hear about eight people getting crushed to death. So there are questions about the private security that live nation had and the troubling history that live nation has with these kinds of events. One of my colleagues wrote this very disturbing story about how there have been 200 deaths that lives and he shouldn't venues since 2006 and 750 very severe injuries and a slew of lawsuits.

5 (9m 53s):
So there are questions about the medical care provided by live nation and about security, the fire department and the, the police department. You know, they've answered a lot of questions so far, but you know, we'll definitely be looking into like how they handled this situation. There's a criminal investigation. There's no one's been charged. No one's been convicted, but those are the entities at Iowa would look at for answers.

0 (10m 18s):
And Travis, Scott is already being

5 (10m 20s):
Sued here, right? Yes, that's correct. So just a few days ago, or in the last couple of days, we reported that at least 11 have been filed and that number is all but short of grow.

0 (10m 31s):
I know Travis Scott loves to have a fair dose of chaos at his shows, but, but these are his fans who died. This is his town that's hurting. How has he responded?

5 (10m 41s):
Travis Scott has been posting these messages on social media, or he appears pretty shaken up.

8 (10m 46s):
Just want to send out prayers to the, to the ones that was lost last night, we're actually working right now to identify the families so we can help assist them through this.

5 (11m 1s):
His girlfriend, Kylie Jenner also released a statement saying that they were broken and heartbroken and being everything by what had happened and taking great pains to say that they had not realized how dangerous the event had become. And weren't aware of the deaths or anything until after the set ended.

8 (11m 20s):
And anytime I can make out, you know, anything that's going on, you know, you know, I just stopped the show and, you know, help them get the help they need. You know,

5 (11m 30s):
Just recently I saw a news that Travis Scott was going to refund everyone who had attended Astroworld.

8 (11m 37s):
I'm honestly just devastated. And I could never imagine anything like this just happening. I'm going to do everything I can to keep you guys updated and informed on what's going on, love your,

0 (12m 16s):
What it would take to prevent this from ever happening again in a minute on today, explain Support for the show. Once again, today comes from click up. Remember that thing I said about John Day, that terrible thing, that terrible name for a new day I proposed the point of the story was click up. Just wants to save you a ton of time. By putting all the things you do for work into one place. They want to bring all those tasks and docs and chats and apps into just this one space where you can get work, done, click ups, as they guarantee.

0 (13m 8s):
They guarantee it that one day a week, we'll come back to you. If you use click up and I want you to take them up on that offer, they've seen it happen for their customers. Click up has analyzed 4,000 teams. They were looking at time saved for those teams. Once they switched to click up and on average, they got back a full day, a week. According to click up, that is 52 days back every year. For, for those of you doing the arithmetic at home, try click up for free today@clickup.com slash today explained

2 (13m 42s):
How would you tackle the issue of pet homelessness? Would you start with pet owner education, shelter, support donations. These efforts are important, but it's hard to fully understand their impact until now Mars pet care has teamed up with animal welfare experts to develop the first ever state of pet homelessness index. It's a data driven tool that measures the scale of the pet homelessness issue@acountrylevelindexdatacanbeusedtoinforminitiativesaimedathelpingendpethomelessnesstofindoutmoreabouttheindexandgetinvolvedvisitandpethomelessness.com.

0 (14m 28s):
When you want to talk about crowd safety, you want to talk to Keith.

9 (14m 33s):
I think proper formal title is professor Dr. G Keith still. I'm a visiting professor at the university of Suffolk in the year.

0 (14m 42s):
Okay. But professor Dr. G Keith still, isn't just a professor at the university of Suffolk in the UK, a

9 (14m 50s):
Crowd scientist study the dynamics of crowds for crowd safety and crowd risk analysis.

0 (14m 56s):
And when you look at your phone or you know, your newspaper and you see a tragedy, like what happened at Astroworld festival this past weekend? What goes through your head?

9 (15m 8s):
Oh, no, not again. Immediately. The, the feeling is this is preventable. It's predictable. These kinds of incidents shouldn't happen, but we collect and study accidents from around the world. And the only time that it's been quiet is due to the COVID lockdown. As soon as the cries come back up, we've seen two major disasters happen already.

10 (15m 35s):
We begin this out with breaking news from Dalton, Israel, where the death toll has now risen to at least 44 after what appears to be in a stampede at a religious festival,

11 (15m 45s):
Tasmanian police say at least 45 people who had died during the stampede in Doris, Alabama, March 21, as Manas paid their last respects to the late president, John Margot fully.

9 (15m 58s):
But these are the ones that result in fatalities that are many, many more that results in personal injury lawsuit cases. Unfortunately, the DNA of these accidents is very similar. So this is a tragedy about the whole thing is that the similarities could be ironed out of the process, but there's so many, these major events are run by enthusiastic. I'm a chose rather than professionally trend tread safety and credit risk experts.

0 (16m 35s):
And you pointed to a few recent examples, but as far as, you know, rock concerts go, I think there was a who concert in 1979, where several people died more recently, a Pearl jam concert in Denmark where several people died, right. There had been these sort of major casualty events at big shows before as well, right?

9 (16m 57s):
Yes. And as you said, the, the events are the ones that hit the headlines, but the number of people that are injured at events is significant. And if you imagine a pyramid where the fatalities at the top, then below that there's another tier, a much wider tier of injuries below that there's a much wider theater, again, of people that have been hot, but haven't reported it, haven't brought a lawsuit. And then below that there's unsafe practices. And the whole thing sits on a, you know, a very shaky foundation, as far as that's concerned.

0 (17m 30s):
I guess the question then for you is why does this keep happening?

9 (17m 34s):
I think the simple answer is that people don't really understand crowd dynamics and tried risk. And for the last 72 years, that's been my study. Initially, I got caught in a trout. I couldn't understand as a physicist on background. And my first degree is in physics, why the crowd was moving in, in a way which was unexpected. So imagine if you can an egg timer, you know, the old Sandeck timers were the grains of sand moved from the top to the bottom and the fastest flow is in the middle. Well that's physics. Yeah. And if you imagine now a Crow, the fastest flow is generally around the edges. So the models that we're using at that time, the ideas ago, what all based on granular flow.

9 (18m 21s):
And it's not that the crowds cause credits, connect their mind up to move and are reacting to spaces that are in there. They're an interactive mass rather than a physics mass

0 (18m 34s):
Is what you're telling me, Keith, that, that essentially crowds are unpredictable

9 (18m 40s):
Far from it. They're not only reasonably predictable, but you can shape behavior to mitigate that risk. You just never allow the density to get that high. So identifying density as your key management issues. So we know the physics of crowd surges and trade collapse, we know the physics of a restrictive or constructive asphyxia. What we need to do is prevent those conditions ever getting up to that threshold. So there's a red line, as far as crowd density is sound. Once you know what that red line is, you just never allow it to go above the red line and you're keeping it moderately safe. There's always going to be a risk of somebody accidentally tripping over or somebody stepping on an ankle and, and some injuries. But what you're trying to do is minimize the risk of these searches.

9 (19m 23s):
And in fact, you can almost eliminate the risk of surges. If you do a crowd monitoring on site designed to prevent those accidents from ever happening in the first place,

0 (19m 32s):
Is that look like at like the, the Astro world festival with 50,000 fans, does that mean you're breaking up the crowd? Does that mean you're putting in security to monitor the crowd in the pit? What does it mean practically?

9 (19m 44s):
Well, you mentioned Ross Gilda, the Pell jam incident and Denmark.

12 (19m 49s):
Yeah. The huge crowd of the Ross Kilda OpenAir summer festivals surged forward, crushing people against the stage witnesses say the band repeatedly appealed to the crowd to move back three steps back. 1, 2, 3, 8 people were killed. 26 were injured some seriously. What

0 (20m 10s):
Did Pearl jam do after that

9 (20m 12s):
Tragedy? And what they did was that they allocated separate pens, which were enclosed spaces. And you only allow X number of people in there. I know they then may well go to the front, but those pens never reached that critical densities where the soldiers can be life-threatening. So it's just a panning it up. It's designed in the front of stage. Body has differently pit design, where the performance going to be when he's, when he's moving around the stage, when they're doing the act, try to prevent any surging and pressure because people that are close will want to be closer, that people that are forced to be farther away cannot get any closest. So the psychology changes and the pressure drops off almost exponentially.

9 (20m 57s):
So that kind of knowledge comes from the simulation and modeling and that filters into, well, how do we design better from the stage areas

0 (21m 5s):
On some level, the rock world learned that lesson, but here's Travis Scott saying, you know, my pits are an intense atmosphere and the kids obviously love it. And up until this incident, they wanted to be as intense as humanly possible. And that's the experience they're showing up for. Is it sort of impossible to have it both ways? Can we not have these wildly intense concert experiences and safety?

9 (21m 34s):
There are ways of designing it so that you can moderate or mitigate those risks. I was doing a TV broadcast in Canada just a an hour ago is they showed the video footage from the 2005 Oasis concept where you see this massive surge in shockwave

13 (21m 50s):
Before we go any further, all you got do is anybody falls down, pick them up. It's going to get fucking nuts.

9 (21m 56s):
Okay. I don't know the actual specifics of the Travis Scott incident, but Oasis had a very clear safety culture that they had a high density, high energy crowd, but the Gallagher brothers, as soon as they see these sort of things, they knew what the show stop procedure was. It stopped the performance. It started to communicate with the crowd.

13 (22m 18s):
Yeah. Now, listen, everybody, like this is serious. There's a crack in the front line, so they're going to have to get it. So I don't feel they're going to let us play. So everyone's going to have to just take a walk back, right? This is a system that is posted. They're going to have to fix it, or we can't do the cake. All right.

9 (22m 33s):
So, you know, mosh pits, similar sort of thing. It's just that be aware of what's happening out here. Have good feedback from your security team and have a shortstop. I can't even process in play.

0 (22m 45s):
Do you think ultimately, the artist bears some responsibility here is this on Travis Scott on some level,

9 (22m 54s):
It's a difficult question to answer directly because I'm seeing a number of conflicting reports in general, your performance there to perform the safety responsibilities or the organizers and the security team. You know, the style of perform well, you know, the particular aspect of their crowd that you need to design and accommodate around it. Now in general, there are only maybe one or two individuals that have the authority to stop a show. And that would be your event organizer or your head of security. These would be named individuals and the documents and the process and procedure for them to make the decision we need to stop. The show also needs to filter through the entire security team.

9 (23m 37s):
So, you know, a couple of our shows are security guys coming on stage and send, they've got a problem will not resonate with a performer as being an emergency. The number of times you see performance is so caught up in, in Iraq, the performance, you know, engaging with an audience and with a lighting, it's almost impossible to know what's happening down. They you'd rely on that feedback mechanisms. So without knowing the specifics, or if there was a show stop called or any details of that perform, I might be one of the last people I'd I'd look at is having liabilities attached to this.

0 (24m 11s):
Well, let's, let's close with some news you can use, you know, if you find yourself, you an individual listening to this show right now in a crowded, dangerous atmosphere, be it at a Walmart on black Friday or a Travis Scott concert or a football game. And you feel like this is getting out of control. How do you get yourself out of it? If you're in the middle of the crowd, what do you do?

9 (24m 38s):
Well, first and foremost, be aware of what high density looks like. And that's when people are physically so close together, they're touching on all sides, avoid those situations because whenever you're in that environment, there's always a risk of a trip, slip and fall in somebody falling on top of you and significant risk to life and limb. Second one is, if you do find yourself in a search, then the pressure releases as the crowd moves back. So you've got this forward and back movement or sideways movement. Wait until you find that pressure out and then back sideways, back sideways, back sideways. So you can zigzag your way out of a high pressure environment, but it's recognizing the difference between being in a search or being at the front of stage in a high energy band.

9 (25m 23s):
And this is just what we're going to be doing. So recognizing risk is, is one of those key factors, but people packed together and join themselves a lot of high energy going on. You might not even recognize that as a risk until it's too late.

0 (25m 35s):
Well, Keith, thanks so much for helping us understand this tragedy and for encouraging us to second guess being in the middle of a large unreliable

9 (25m 46s):
And let's hope we never see an incident like this again, but I do believe the industry is going to have to have a wake up call and start to put a formally recognized qualified safety managers to events. I think one of the big things that we see is that, well take fire festivals and example, anybody can start an agent event, but it takes a real professional to put on a safe event.

0 (26m 15s):
Professor Dr. G Keith still is a professor at the university of Suffolk in the UK, Halima Shaw and Hottie Milwaukee D produced this episode in the U S

14 (27m 1s):
The world is changing fast. And when it comes to online banking, capital one, and it's teams of engineers are working to keep customers safe by developing, cutting edge technology at the forefront of what's possible capital one, develops products like a tech company using machine learning to lead the way like the way they fight fraud or their AI powered intelligent assistant, you know, capital one's apps and products have won awards for some of the best real time. Personalized customer experiences learn more@capitalone.com slash tech

15 (27m 35s):
Today's episode is brought to you by plat. If you're building a financial app or service plan is the easiest way to get started with plans API, your users can securely connect their bank accounts to your app in seconds. In fact, one in four, us adults have used plaid to connect their account to an app that can help them pay back their roommate, save money or take control of their financial future. With just a few lines of code, you can start building with plan today, visit <inaudible> dot com to get started.