0 (1s):
The conservative political action conference, better known as CPAC returns to Texas this week. All the usual suspects are in attendance. I

1 (9s):
Wanna ask how many from Texas

0 (11s):
Local politicians,

1 (12s):
How many of you from somewhere else who want to be from Texas?

2 (15s):
Who loves pizza?

0 (16s):
Papa. John. Yeah.

2 (17s):
Who loves freedom? Well, and for freedom, wouldn't be no pizza. Wouldn't be no Papa Johns that's for

0 (24s):
Sure. But, and the prime minister of Hungary,

4 (29s):
My country is the lone star state of Europe.

0 (34s):
Victor Orban was in the house, which is kind of weird because a lot of people point out that he's like a xenophobic authoritarian for proof, check out his ideas on how to get Hungarians, to make more babies.

4 (45s):
The last 10 years, the number of marriages has doubled and the number of abortions has haled in Hungary. It's not a bad start.

0 (56s):
That's ahead on today. Explained support for the show today comes from, are you sleeping the podcast from Vox creative and mattress firm, but it's also coming from the season finale of, are you sleeping from Vox creative and mattress firm? And I'm gonna tell you all about it later on in this program, perhaps there'll be another message from our sponsor. Are you sleeping from V creative and mattress firm? It's a podcast you can find anywhere I dare you to not find are you sleeping?

0 (1m 39s):
Explain Sean here with producer reporter miles, Brian, who really wants to tell me about his favorite meme.

5 (1m 46s):
Okay. You know, that meme from ClickHole the one with the bald guy gazing at you with the caption that says heartbreaking, the worst person, you know, just made a great point.

0 (1m 55s):
I think I know of this meme because you so love this meme and turn me onto it.

5 (2m 0s):
Well, that's kind of how I'm thinking about the reporting that I wanna bring to you. Are you

0 (2m 5s):
The worst

5 (2m 5s):
Person? No, just stay with me here. The worst person in the scenario I'm setting up here. And that, that half of the meme is Hungary's prime minister, Victor Orban. So listeners might remember our three part series back in may on how Orban is pioneering a sort of soft authoritarianism that has peaks the interest of conservatives in the us and elsewhere. Yeah, more recently Orban said he didn't think Europeans should be mixing with brown people from elsewhere.

0 (2m 34s):
Yikes. Don't tell my wife,

6 (2m 36s):
He expresses a kind of Christian nationalism that has very powerful resonance. Obviously in America. They see the hungry small though. It is. And cut off though. It is. And in Europe, though, it is, has actually managed to do many of the things that the nationalist right in America is aiming to do

5 (2m 58s):
Post Noel king. And I went to Hungary to attend the conservative political action conference held there, or at least try to attend. Listeners will remember that she got kicked

7 (3m 7s):
Out. It's today explained I'm Noel king. And I got kicked out of CPAC, Hungary.

5 (3m 12s):
We talked to a lot of people in Budapest, which is the most progressive place in the country. And plenty of them had critical things to say about Orban. You know, they thought his anti G B T policies were repugnant and the wall he had built on Hungary Southern border was cruel, but there was one set of policies that got uniformly wave reviews from people across the political spectrum. Tell me more in case you haven't guessed yet, this is the great point part of the meme. And in this case, the great point, according to the people we talk to anyway, is Hungary's policies to incentivize having babies. So what is the great point? What are the policies? Okay. So for some context, Hungary's population has been declining for a long time.

5 (3m 55s):
A shrinking and aging population presents all sorts of problems. So to counter that Hungary's government has come up with these policies to make, having a big family, more enticing. I think the easiest way to get into the details is to introduce you to some families. I met in Budapest a couple of months back. Okay. First I wanna tell you about Zon and Haiti. They live in a suburb of the city and I went to meet them with our Hungarian fixer ma Zon, ma miles. Nice to meet

8 (4m 24s):
You. Hi, I'm Haiti. Nice to meet you. See you ma see ya.

5 (4m 27s):
What a beautiful home you have.

8 (4m 29s):
No, it's not finished yet. Unfortunately

5 (4m 31s):
They're planning a home renovation, which the Hungarian government will pay for a big chunk of just cuz they have kids. Well, that's, that's a sweet deal. Yeah. And there's more just wait. So Haiti and Zelton met in college. They have two kids now and are trying for another Haiti, says that was always her plan.

8 (4m 49s):
I always want three children. So even my mom has say that from whenever I could speak. I have always say that I want three children. I dunno why

5 (4m 58s):
Zelton was not so sure. In

9 (4m 60s):
My past thinking I was think I would like to have two kids, not three.

5 (5m 6s):
Now, if this was America, we can imagine what Zon would say in that family planning conversation, right? Can't afford daycare. What about saving for college? You know, the whole laundry list of stuff that makes it really hard to have a kid, but this is, this is hungry, but this is hungry baby. So I wanna tell you about some of the government support that this family is entitled to because to my American sensibility, it is astonishing. Huh? So in addition to that home renovation grant, they get a subsidy to buy a big car available to parents of three or more kids. Wow. They get a subsidy to spend on a babysitter. They get a grant to pay down their mortgage. Wow. They get help with student loans.

5 (5m 46s):
They get money from the government to start a savings account for their kids. Holy smokes. Oh. And if they have a fourth child, Haiti no longer has to pay income tax. That's like

0 (5m 57s):
The, the red carpet treatment. What kind of car did they buy?

5 (6m 1s):
Well, they don't have the three kids yet, so they haven't upgraded to the car, but okay. The talk that Salton and Haiti ended up having about baby number three, it was sort of like the inverse of how it often goes over here.

8 (6m 13s):
If we want to build a house and you would like only two children, you don't really get too much support from the government, but with three children you get much more. So even when you want to start your life, you have to decide that how much kids you would like from the start. And you can say that I would like just do, but between two and three children economically, it's a really, really big difference. What gives the government? Not

10 (6m 45s):
Just, this was the reason why we choose this for you.

5 (6m 48s):
Not just the money, but it helps, but it helps.

10 (6m 50s):
Yeah. It's helped to make this decision.

0 (6m 52s):
What happens when you have five kids miles, does someone like, do you get a personal misuse?

5 (6m 57s):
Sadly, all the benefits cut off before five,

0 (7m 2s):
I guess they got it cut off somewhere. Did you talk to any other families or was it just Sultan and Haiti?

5 (7m 6s):
I did. I talked to one other, I met Kinga and Milosh at their Budapest department. They had four kids. Huh? I asked them if they got to that number to take advantage of hungs, you know, generous subsidies. And they were like, definitely not.

10 (7m 21s):
We often joke about living in a bit of a Catholic bubble. So because of that, I think it's quite normal among many of the people we, we know to have three children, horrible to have three kids. Yeah. Four is pushing it. But then again, to be honest, the fourth was, I don't know how you should say it's in English, but a kind of surprise or present child.

0 (7m 43s):
So they just love to get down miles.

5 (7m 46s):
So king get Milosh, you know, they had the number of kids that they had for personal reasons. But they did say these benefits are such a thing in Hungarian culture. That jokes about like having kids for the government perks are just like part of the culture. Hmm.

0 (8m 1s):
You know, I I'm wondering how bad is the baby situation in Hungary that the government's willing to roll out this level of, of social welfare.

5 (8m 11s):
Yeah. Well, let me give you some, some backstory here played a little Planky music here In 1970 Hungary's population was about 10.3 million in 2020, it had fallen to 9.7 million by comparison. The us population in that time went way up from like 205 million people in 1970 to 330 million people, 50 years later now, to be fair to Hungary that country's population decline was pretty common in Eastern European countries. A lot of them lost population after the fall of communism in 1990, when people who could leave the country did for better prospects elsewhere, but they also saw big declines in their birth rates in 1970 women in Hungary had two kids on average by 2010 was about 1.2.

5 (8m 59s):
Hmm. The birthright needs to be 2.1 for populations not to decline,

0 (9m 4s):
Huh? But with all these programs, is, are those numbers turning around?

5 (9m 8s):
I mean the boosters say,

11 (9m 9s):
Yeah, the nation of Hungary led by the one and only Victor Orban is experiencing nothing less. The nationalist populous marriage and baby boom.

5 (9m 19s):
They point out that since prime minister Victor Orban was elected in 2010, the country's birth rate has shot up to about 1.6 babies per woman. They also like to point out that the number of marriages has nearly doubled in that time.

11 (9m 32s):
Hung is leading the way to cultural revitalization of Western civilization for the whole of the European continent.

0 (9m 44s):
This is interesting, but miles, I imagine we could have gone to any country and, and, and looked at how they're trying to encourage people to have kids. What makes hungry an outlier, if anything,

5 (9m 55s):
I mean, first Hungary's policies stand out for just their sheer number and the amount of money and support the state is putting behind them. I think Hungary spends 5% of its GDP on families and, and boosting family formation. I mean, that's just a huge amount of money. Prime minister, Victor Orban has made this a centerpiece of his government, but there are other ways that hung stand out that are maybe less rosy

0 (10m 20s):
Say more

5 (10m 21s):
Well as popular as or Bond's policies are with a lot of Hungarians. They're also deeply unfriendly to a lot of people and they're unfriendly in ways that are in line with Orban style of governing. You know, he calls himself and illiberal Democrat, and he prioritizes Christianity and conservative cultural values at the expense of basically everything else, gay people in Hungary are not allowed to get married. And Orban party actually led the charge to rewrite Hungary's constitution a few years ago to effectively ban gay people from adopting, which means they don't have easy access to these family subsidies. Another group that's often showed out is the very poor,

0 (10m 57s):
Huh?

5 (10m 58s):
Yeah. The Roma are the largest minority group in Hungary and the Roma often live in brutal poverty since

12 (11m 4s):
Their ancestors arrived in Europe from India. Some 600 years ago, Roma people have been enslaved expelled and ethnically cleansed. Hundreds of thousands were slaughter during world war

5 (11m 15s):
II. Many don't have a good connection with a bank. And that's a problem because these subsidies we've been talking about, they're usually run through banks. Agnes Saba Morva is a researcher at the center for economic and regional studies in Budapest.

13 (11m 29s):
I do my research in various topics related to how the Hungarian family policies affect fertility, right?

5 (11m 38s):
She says, it's sort of ironic because the Roma in general have twice as many kids as the non-Roma in Hungary. So they're often shut out of benefits. That could be a huge help for them.

13 (11m 48s):
It reflects, I think the preference is a right wing governing party, right? It's not publicly said, but I would infer that they wanted to increase the fertility of the higher income wealthier people.

5 (12m 3s):
I should note here that the Hungarian government says the percentages of Roma people, unemployed and living in deep poverty has fallen a lot in the last decade.

0 (12m 11s):
Okay. So what I'm getting from you is that Hungary has these incredibly generous social benefits for future parents, but only the future parents that Victor Orban prefers. I know from our previous episodes that we were talking about in American conservatives, trying to cop Victor Orban style in various ways, are they paying attention to these benefits as well?

5 (12m 33s):
Oh, they're paying attention and they are loving them. These policies have infatuated, a certain type of us conservative, you know, the JD VAs and Tucker Carlsons who are super anti-immigrant and are down for government spending to promote the right kind of children and families,

14 (12m 49s):
Victor or bond who is of course the Babbo of nearly every liberal in the mainstream American media has implemented a couple of policies that I think are really interesting. One of which is that in his country, they offer loans to new married couples that are forgiven. At some point later, if those couples eventually stay together and have children, why can't we do that here? Why can't we actually promote family formation here in our country?

0 (13m 15s):
Was that JD Vance. It was, but he didn't mention anything about them not extending benefits to the gaze or to the Roma.

5 (13m 22s):
You know, I think that's probably part of the attraction.

0 (13m 24s):
So for all the conservatives in the United States and elsewhere who take a look at what Victor Orban is doing and want to perhaps emulate it, I gotta ask, is it viable to, to encourage your own population, to make more babies while sort of shunning the Roma, the GS,

5 (13m 44s):
You know, I talked to a bunch of people about that question and the answer seems to be probably not, no, you know, the birth rate is definitely up and hungry, but you know, I talked to a demographer who points out that the birth rates of other nearby countries like the Czech Republic and Romania have also gone up during that time. And Agnes, the, the researcher I interviewed for this story says, it's not really clear how much more Hungarian policies can move the needle past where it is now.

13 (14m 10s):
Usually the, the research finds that you cannot buy everything for money in terms of fertility.

0 (14m 20s):
So what you're saying is it's trickier than it might seem to buy your way out of a, a demographic crisis.

5 (14m 25s):
That was my conclusion. But you know, population decline is not just Hungary's problem, right? It's a problem that China now faces. It's a problem that Japan faces. It's a problem that Germany faces. It's a problem that Sweden faces. And it's a problem that the United States is likely to face soon. It's this looming challenge for the whole world, right? But the crazy part about it is there is a solution to population decline in population aging. There's an answer that we know works. It's just not something that conservatives or a lot of people, frankly, are very excited to support.

0 (15m 2s):
Let the people in

5 (15m 3s):
Immigration. Exactly. And I'm not talking about immigration on a small scale to really deal with these problems. I'm talking about massive amounts of immigration rebalancing the entire planet, not along national lines, but along ones of young and old

0 (15m 26s):
Today explained back in a Support for this episode of today, explain is coming from, are you sleeping? But not just any episode of, are you sleeping? The season finale of, are you sleeping? It's gonna be like that one time. Tony gets that one guy in the Sopranos. No, it's not gonna be like that. Cuz cuz this isn't gonna be violent. This is gonna be about sleeping. But sometimes the Sopranos was of course about sleeping Tony's dream sequences, groundbreaking television. Are you sleeping season finale? You're gonna hang out with the doctor, just like Tony did Dr. Melfi this time it's gonna be Drand geal he's gonna share his own experiences with sleep paralysis, which led him down a path in neuroscience to become one of the world's leading sleep researchers.

0 (16m 20s):
He's gonna tell people about a cure he's been working on for sleep paralysis on, are you sleeping for matches firm and V creative, are you listening to, are you sleeping? Listen. Now

5 (16m 37s):
Our show is called today, explained and sometimes in the middle, someone sings today today explained it's today. You explained, would you mind seeing that in Hungarian? Yeah.

15 (16m 51s):
More, more. My glass Mo Mo Mo Mobo Mobo Mobo

0 (17m 1s):
Brian Walsh is an editor at V's future. Perfect. He works on stories about policies and technologies that can make the planet a better place. So we went to him with our questions about population decline.

16 (17m 14s):
Birth rates have been dropping around much of the world for quite a while. I mean here in the United States, they're below replacement level. That's 2.1, but that's also the case in most of Europe last

17 (17m 22s):
Year, Italy's birth rate hit its lowest level since 1861

16 (17m 27s):
In most of east Asia. For instance, now the

18 (17m 30s):
Number of children in Japan is at its lowest since 1950.

16 (17m 34s):
The only places where you're seeing population growing at a pretty fast rate is parts of Africa. Sub-Saharan Africa, especially south Asia countries like India, the Philippines, but they're really the exceptions in a world where population growth is really slowing down. And

0 (17m 48s):
We're talking about this as a problem. I'm doing air quotes here, but you know, I'm sure a lot of people are thinking, well, you know, the planet's getting hotter. We're running outta resources left and right. Why is the population slowing down such a bad thing? We do not have infinite resources to keep growing

16 (18m 7s):
Forever. I mean, look, I took the subway into Manhattan today, so I can totally get up on the side of having fewer people just around you. But it is a problem in a couple senses. One is that from an economic growth perspective, as population growth slows down, you not just get fewer people, fewer workers, fewer consumers as well. You also get an older population, older populations. People tend to work less, that's less productive, less innovative. And also the fact is, you know, with fewer younger workers, you'll have fewer people to support that much larger older population. So put all that together. It really is both an unprecedented situation. We never really faced this before in the history of our entire species. So we don't know what this is going to be like. It's gonna be something that's gonna be really difficult to deal with. And that's why I think you see a lot of governments trying various methods to boost that fertility rate.

0 (18m 51s):
Okay. So if you accept that this is a problem that needs solving, which I'm sure not everyone out there will, but if you do, what do you do about it? We, we heard all about Hungary's generous benefits that we also noted. Weren't extended to everyone in the country, income tax breaks credits for home renovations, subsidizing mortgages, hooking you up with a car. What else is out there?

16 (19m 13s):
The coupon policy of helping people get more kids to actually pay them off for that, that seems to have some effect. You might see a little bit of a boom. And you saw that. I think in Hungary, in some other countries that have tried that it doesn't seem to solve the problem. Some of the biggest things you can do simply is provide more state sponsored childcare. That's a huge issue here in the us, but in a lot of other countries as well

19 (19m 32s):
To boost the birth rate, the French state has a family allowance system backed by tax incentives.

16 (19m 37s):
Then you look at a place like France, which has a very well subsidized, very well established public childcare system

19 (19m 44s):
Families with three kids or more achieved the golden status of a femmy Nooo, a big family that gives you more perks like discounts on transportation.

16 (19m 53s):
They have higher rates of birth than a lot of their neighbors. In other parts of Europe,

19 (19m 58s):
It's a generous system that costs the state tens of billions of euros each year, a high cost. That's worth it. If you ask French parents,

16 (20m 5s):
You what you want situation where you can just make it easier to have families. If you want to have the families, you can do it. The government will support you in that way. It doesn't have to be about paying you off. Just has to be about making that, especially those first few years when you're trying to move you balance work and having kids make that a little easier. Yeah. Even if you don't have more kids, you have a situation where families are just generally supported more generally that helps people work more. It just helps across the board. Unfortunately, we haven't really seen that in the us.

0 (20m 29s):
I mean, no one's found a silver bullet, but for immigration, right,

16 (20m 33s):
Immigration, I think is the closest thing. You can get to a silver bullet when it comes to directly affecting population growth, because you can bring in often younger people, people are often coming when they're immigrants, they're not coming at 50, 60, they're coming at 20, 25 30. They can bring, bring, and they can have families. They can be proactive. They can be innovative. A lot of course, really innovative companies in the United States have been started by immigrants. And it just allows you to, to really offset that aging you would otherwise have. And you know, for the United States, which for a long time, that was of a huge source of population growth. It's slowed down a lot, really significantly since the Trump administration, but it hasn't really even picked up under Biden as well. And if the us, if that is a priority to avoid a situation where we're facing towards an older and eventually shrinking future, that's gotta come from immigration.

16 (21m 18s):
That is really the only source. And that's not an option. A lot of the countries have, you know, Japan, which has been shrinking already has a hard time accepting immigrants. You know, a China same thing

0 (21m 27s):
Has a hard time accepting immigrants as in, they just don't want

16 (21m 30s):
To. Yes. I mean like culturally, it, it's not been a place where immigrants tend to come. It's not an easy place for immigrants to, to really join the culture. It's somewhat more OC exclusionary. And just traditionally that that path hasn't been available.

20 (21m 44s):
We are living in times when there are fewer and fewer children born in Europe for the west. The answer to that challenge is immigration. For every missing child. There should be one coming in and then the numbers will be fine, but we do not need numbers. We need Hungarian children.

0 (22m 5s):
But what we're really talking about here is a kind of xenophobia kind of aversion to a multicultural country, right? Because we're not just talking about letting in some immigrants, we're talking about countries, fixing their, their population decline problems by letting in a ton of brown people. You

16 (22m 26s):
Have basically two choices. I think if you're in charge of a country right now, you can either go the exclusionary xenophobic route. In which case you're almost certainly locking yourself into long-term decline in population. And in other ways I'd say, or you can open up to a much more multicultural culture and actually have a future which will have growth, which will have dynamism, which will have innovation. It's gonna look different than the country you're used to. But that really is the only choice forward.

0 (22m 53s):
If we just had, you know, a bunch of pegs on a board representing population across the planet and tried to balance it out so that no country on earth had a declining population anymore. How much different would the planet look?

16 (23m 11s):
I think it would look really different. You're talking about hundreds of millions in population growth happening in Sub-Saharan Africa, in south Asia. If you wanna smooth that out, that would be a very different world. You see a lot of those people going to, to Europe, for instance, which is going to be declining and shrinking a lot faster than north America, people going to, to north America, people even going to south America, it would be a whole shift of the world. How likely that is. I don't know because simultaneously the situation where I think migration is more important than ever to solving this and other problems. And you're seeing waves of, of population. We're seeing resistance in a lot of countries. And to me, that's going to be one of the big stories of the future of the 21st century.

16 (23m 52s):
What we do about the situation about migration, what we do about situation of population decline, population slow down. This is the only way to really handle it. And either we will, or we face a world that is just going to be, I think, taller walls. A lot of people stuck in areas where, you know, they can't maximize what they could do with their lives countries. On the other side of those walls, shrinking decaying, I think a future where people can move much more freely is going to be a better future, but it's a tough political ask. It seems both here in the us and, and in a lot of parts of the world

0 (24m 28s):
That was Brian Walsh. He's an editor at V's future. Perfect. Read up on some of the solutions to the world's biggest problems at vox.com/future. Perfect. Our show today was produced and reported by miles, Brian. He was edited by Matthew Colette fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed and mastered by a theme Shapiro. This is today explained thank you to our sponsor of this episode of today explained that would be our, you sleeping the podcast from mattress firm and Vox creative that you can find wherever you listen to your podcasts.

0 (25m 20s):
On the latest episode, you're gonna hear research into the neuroscience of sleep paralysis by a guy who had sleep paralysis and it inspired him to get into the neuroscience of sleep paralysis. It's gonna be some full circle stuff. Thank you. Are you sleeping for all your support of this program? And you're welcome for all my support of yours.