1 (3s):
Every once in a while you realize there are one or two things that our deeply divided country agrees on, or at least pretends to agree on. We've been thrust into one of those moments by the United Autoworkers strike. President Joe Biden is on the side of labor over

2 (17s):
Generations. Autoworkers sacrificed so much to keep the industry alive and strong, especially through the economic crisis and the pandemic workers deserve a fair share of the benefits they help create for an enterprise

1 (29s):
Former and would-be again, president Trump sounds pretty much the same.

3 (34s):
The Autoworkers are not gonna have any jobs when you come right down to it because If, you take a look at what they're doing with electric cars. Electric cars are gonna be made in China. The Autoworkers are being sold down the river by their leadership and their leadership should endorse Trump

1 (51s):
Ahead. On today explained a strike becomes a sign of the Times.

Zelle (59s):
Support for this episode comes from Zelle. You'd never fall for an online scam, right? You use two-factor authentication. Ignore calls from everyone named spam risk and never use the password. Password. But scammers are getting more sophisticated and more active, which means they're finding millions of new victims every single year. The good news is that there's a lot you can do to protect yourself on the Wild, wild Web. For starters, Zelle wants to remind you only send money to people you know and trust. Zelle is available to United States Bank account holders only terms and conditions apply.

Global Citizen (1m 45s):
Support for this show comes from Global Citizen. On September 23rd, the Global Citizen Festival will gather thousands of people who took action to end extreme poverty. Watch the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Ms. Lauren Hill and Anita as they take the stage with world leaders and activists to demand action for equity for the planet, for food and for jobs. Download the Global Citizen app to watch live, learn more@globalcitizen.org slash Vox.

0 (2m 19s):
What do we want? Explain what do we want now?

6 (2m 23s):
Nora Eckert. I'm an Auto reporter for the Wall Street Journal. I'm in Detroit, Michigan. There's a lot happening in Detroit. I'd say that there's a lot of energy and a lot of anxiety right now about the ongoing Auto strike.

1 (2m 36s):
What do the Autoworkers want? The

6 (2m 38s):
Autoworkers want better quality of life, better pay, and more paid time off. So they've logged really long hours during the pandemic. A lot of them even worked through the bankruptcies during the Great Recession and they wanna see some, some form of that back, whether in their wages or in their benefits.

7 (2m 57s):
We are committed to winning an agreement with the big three that reflects the incredible sacrifice and contributions u a W members have made to these companies. We must show the companies you are ready to join the standup strike at a moment's notice. And we must show the world that our fight is a righteous fight.

6 (3m 22s):
The union initially came out with a 40% pay increase demand that's budged slightly as negotiations have continued, but we're right down to like the 35 mid thirties range now. So a pretty significant wage increase. But the union actually looked at, they said how the big three CEOs have dodged a similar pay increase over the last four years.

7 (3m 47s):
You know, the CEOs gave themselves a 40% pay increase over the last four years. Our members deserve a hell of a lot better than where they are. We've went backwards in wages in the last decade

6 (3m 56s):
And they looked at how other unions have secured some pretty substantial double digit pay increases outside of Auto, and they arrived at this number.

1 (4m 5s):
Okay, so they're saying the CEOs have gotten a 40% pay raise, we should get the same. What about with respect to benefits?

6 (4m 12s):
So folks are really interested in more paid time off of work. So not necessarily like a medical benefit, but for this, they wanted 32 hour work week for 40 hour pay. The U A w President Sean Fain has said, our workers have spent way too much time inside of these factories and it's time that they have a little more of that space to spend with their families.

7 (4m 34s):
The talking heads have lost their shit every time I talk about the 32 hour work week, but you know what? They and their coworkers were working from home all throughout the pandemic,

6 (4m 45s):
And that's been very important for workers. Just the sense that we need more time to ourselves. Folks are also looking for retiree benefits, specifically improved retiree medical benefits. They're looking for the return of cost of living adjustments. This is sort of more along the lines of pay, but they're also looking to eliminate what they call the tier system, which is a system where newer workers start off making a lower wage and then grow into the top wage.

8 (5m 15s):
So let me ask you this, how would you feel? You come in and you're, you make $15 an hour and they place you right next to someone making $31 an hour and you guys are doing the same job. That's a horrible feeling on both sides.

6 (5m 32s):
The union is saying, these workers are doing the same job. They deserve the same pay. So they're looking to equalize that playing field.

1 (5m 39s):
The union has framed this by saying we'd like to go back to the way we were paid and the way we were treated before the financial crisis.

9 (5m 46s):
Chad Favre with u a w Local 5 98, which services, Flint Assembly says this negotiation stems from the 2008 recession when automakers were bankrupt. And u a w workers made

6 (5m 57s):
Concessions to help.

1 (5m 59s):
How do these asks compare to the wages and benefits of the time before the financial crisis? Is this essentially just going back to normal because the companies are now out of trouble? Their stock prices doing well, their CEOs are well paid? Is this just kind of like a return to the golden age?

6 (6m 17s):
The union has said we don't want concessions, we wanna return to that level where we were before the financial crisis, but they didn't have a 32 hour work week for 40 hour pay at that period too. So I think it's fair to say that these demands return them to the level they were at pre-financial crisis. But there's some added asks on top of that baseline. Certainly when you think about pay, the union has said, we're just trying to account for inflation over the last few years that the peer wages that we're earning now are much less than we earned decades ago because they haven't accounted for inflation appropriately. So in in that respect, they are looking to return to what they earned in the past.

6 (6m 58s):
But there are some really interesting new demands that they're putting on the table that reflects sort of the, the labor movements evolving conversation around work-life balance and, and how life on the job should look.

1 (7m 10s):
What you're describing are negotiation tactics. Yes, it seems as though the union does not think it's gonna get all of these demands met. And it seems as though the big three know there are certain places where they will have to give in, but they won't have to give in to everything you wrote that the u a w strike strategy is start small and keep them guessing. What does that mean? What does that look like?

6 (7m 35s):
Yeah, so we're seeing this really unusual strike strategy for the U aaw might not be unusual when you look at tactics that other unions across different industries have used. But for the union, this is really a departure from their traditional pick one company as the target and strike all the workers there. So what Sean Fain and his team have developed is this tactic where they take out specific plans at each automaker.

7 (8m 1s):
We are using a new strategy, the standup strike,

6 (8m 5s):
And let's just say as a, as a baseline, the union hasn't had strikes at all three automakers simultaneously ever. So that is unprecedented in itself. But this tactic takes down these very targeted, specific plants at each automaker and impedes production in specific ways. But the beauty of it is they don't have to pay as many workers out of their strike fund. So for example, if they took 146,000 Autoworkers down across all three automakers, that would deplete their strike fund much more quickly than if they have a few plants down and they're paying, like right now, about 13,000 workers to be on strike.

7 (8m 44s):
This strategy will keep the company's guessing. It will give our national negotiators maximum leverage and flexibility in bargaining. And if we need to go all out, we will. Everything is on the table.

1 (8m 60s):
Tell me about Sean. Fain.

6 (9m 3s):
Sean is, he's been sort of a, a character that I think a lot of people in Detroit have been fixated on. So I, I was following him, you know, before he was elected obviously, and he ran against the incumbent Ray Curry and the Union has had this sort of ruling caucus for decades. you know,

10 (9m 21s):
While my opponent likes to talk about great experience and great opportunities, I have actually been doing the work.

6 (9m 29s):
So Sean Fain is the first challenger in, in more than 70 years to unseat a incumbent from that caucus. And the conversation around him was, you know, he's got this base that's really supportive, but it's gonna be very hard to unseat Ray Curry the incumbent. Well, in March he did through a runoff election and he, I think he really surprised a lot of people here and throughout his campaign and even after being elected, obviously he's run this like very social media centered platform. He connects with members directly through live streams on Facebook, on x good

7 (10m 7s):
Evening, u a w family tonight we're gonna cover a lot of ground, we're gonna

6 (10m 12s):
Review. And he has like a very savvy team around him that is constantly pumping out videos, informative videos about how they're handling negotiations. And he's doing all of this. He's bargaining in a much more public way. So typically these sorts of conversations between executives on the Auto side and the union leaders would happen behind closed doors. They would hash out their differences at the table. And Sean has really done it through members. He, he has displayed to members, this is our ask. This is where the companies are, and this is not enough. In some cases. He has a flare for the companies have called theatrics. Hmm. He, he threw, he threw one proposal from STIs in a trash can.

6 (10m 55s):
That's been sort of talked about for, for weeks around here.

7 (10m 58s):
I'll tell you what, brothers and sisters, when we get things like this from the company and they wanna sit there and talk about, they're not asking for concessions or looking for concessions. Everything they're looking for in this document is about concessions. So I'll tell you what I'm gonna do with, with their proposal, I'm gonna file it in its proper place 'cause that's where it belongs the trash. 'cause that's what it's,

6 (11m 20s):
So he, he's shown that he's not afraid to make bold statements like that. On the whole though, he's kind of a muted guy. I spent a a few hours with him when we were writing about him and he's very subdued, almost like when you talk with him at a table. He is not pounding his fist. He's, he's quite soft spoken and he's got this like, calm, measured, thoughtful manner that is really, really sort of clashes with his public persona, I would say. So

1 (11m 45s):
Sean Fey's plan is we're gonna have certain people strike at certain times that will allow us to extend the life of the strike fund. It's an interesting tactic and seems like a smart one, but it also indicates that the union expects this to go on. The union expects this to be a strike with some legs. The last time the u a w went on strike back in 2019, it went on for 40 days. We're more or less in day four. Now for people like you who have some expertise, what do you think we're looking at here in terms of length?

6 (12m 18s):
Yeah, I I think that's totally fair to consider this as a strategy that could be drawn out. But I also think it's important to consider that one of the reasons the union took this approach was they wanted to show to the automakers that they were interested in continuing to bargain. So if, if they had gone out and just taken down all plans at all three companies, it would've been a sign that this is sort of as intense as we can be and it doesn't really show to the automakers that they're willing to budge on anything, if that makes sense. So with this approach, the union is signaling in some ways to the automakers that we're putting a little bit of heat on you now and If, you propose us some like compelling offers in the coming days.

6 (13m 6s):
We could put an end to this or we could ramp up that heat. So I think it could go both ways. I think we could see a quicker deal at maybe one or more of the automakers and, and perhaps others would would dig their heels in or we could see a swift resolution across all. But the beauty of this strategy is that the union has the ability to adjust as the companies respond. So they're giving themselves the bandwidth to have a drawn out strike. But I don't think that the strategy means that inevitably there will be a drawn out strike.

1 (13m 44s):
Nora Eckert of the Wall Street Journal on what the U a w and President Sean Fayne want. Coming up the raw. What do the CEOs of the big three want?

11 (14m 0s):
Support for today's show comes from

Noom (14m 3s):
Noom, that's moon backwards, Noom. There's a lot of advice out there about what you should and shouldn't eat, but Noom is focused on why you eat. Noom uses science and personalization to help you manage your weight for the long term. Noom s psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors and you decide how Noom fits into your life, not the other way around. Sarah Frank, she works on the business side of things at Vox Media and she had the chance to try out Noom. I'm someone who likes to do the New York Times news quiz every week, and Noom has a similar quiz each day where you can take a quiz about healthy eating. And I noticed that I definitely was getting some of those answers wrong at the beginning and I started to really get a sense of how my behaviors impact what I eat. You can sign up for your trial today at Noom dot com. That's N O O m.com. Moon backwards to sign up for your trial today.

Indeed (15m 11s):
Support for today explain comes from indeed If. you are hiring. You probably don't have time to wait around for a perfect candidate Indeed wants to help bring them to you. Indeed is a hiring platform on which you can attract, interview and hire all in one place. Usually you might spend hours switching between multiple job sites, looking for candidates with the right skills, indeed can help you streamline all of that. Here's how it works. You post an open job and indeed immediately shows you candidates whose resumes fit your descriptions. This helps you hire faster, plus you only pay for applications that meet your must have requirements. You can start hiring now with a $75 sponsored job credit to upgrade your job. Post at indeed.com/today explained. This offer is good for a limited time. Listeners can claim they're $75 credit now at indeed.com/today explained. That's indeed.com/today. Explained some terms and conditions apply.

1 (16m 17s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. Go ahead professor, just give me your full name and tell me what you do.

13 (16m 23s):
Merrick Masters, professor of business at Wayne State University in Detroit Rock City.

1 (16m 30s):
Once upon a time, I mean we would think of Detroit and we would think of the big car companies. Obviously there's been a lot of evolution in the economy in the past couple of decades, but does Detroit still see itself as an Auto worker kind of town?

13 (16m 43s):
Well, I think Detroit still sees itself very much as a working class town. The Auto industry is a shell of its former self, but it's still heavily concentrated in this area. We consider ourselves very much dependent on the Auto industry and it is very much a signature of our city. you know, being the motor city.

14 (17m 8s):
Detroit can't build great cars anymore.

1 (17m 15s):
We learned in the first half of the show what the employees, what the workers want broadly, why are they not getting what they want?

13 (17m 23s):
Well, I think their ask is very high. That's the number one reason. And the union has put itself in the position where it really wants to go back and get many of the things that it gave away about 15 years ago during the bankruptcy era.

15 (17m 40s):
You know, we, we gave up a lot of stuff when Auto industry had its crash a few years ago. you know, we gave it up willingly. Now it's just time for them to give it back willingly,

13 (17m 48s):
You know, and the companies are just not willing to do that. Now the question is whether on some of the other items they can find common ground and so far they haven't gotten close enough to reach that point.

1 (17m 58s):
The U A w President Sean Fain is playing a big part in all of this of course, as you would imagine, and he's asking what seems to be a relatively simple question. If profits for these companies are soaring, these companies are doing well by most metrics.

16 (18m 13s):
When you look at the Q three report from General Motors, really every metric was better than expected, better than analysts were expecting.

1 (18m 20s):
Why is that not reflected in the paychecks of the people who work for the company?

13 (18m 24s):
Well, I think the companies would respond and say that it is reflected in the paychecks. They do give profit sharing and so they look at this as they have generous packages now, and it's also important to remember that they have gold plate medical care. So from the company's perspective, they think this is a very good package that they already have. They're willing to embellish it in many significant ways, but they're not willing to double their hourly labor costs and go from $65 an hour to $140 or, or even more. That would just be to them unsustainable.

1 (19m 3s):
In 2019, general Motors workers went on a strike that lasted for about 40 days, nearly

17 (19m 10s):
50,000 United Autoworkers striking against General Motors this morning. 55 plants all around the country shut down.

18 (19m 17s):
We are standing up for fair wages. We are standing up for affordable quality healthcare. We are standing up for our share of the profits.

1 (19m 30s):
I have to think that the car companies are looking back at that strike and saying, what did we lose? Where did we end up on the other side of it? What did the losses on either side look like in 2019?

13 (19m 41s):
Well, for General Motors, it lost about $3.6 billion in revenue. I think from the union side, it didn't have the heavy strike benefit payments that it does right now, but for both sides, this wasn costly and you have to ask yourself, did they really make back all that that they gave in terms of, you know, the cost that they suffered when they negotiated a new contract. And I think right now they're facing this different dynamic. The competition, even though this wasn stiff then is much stiffer now they've got the advent of the non-union electrical companies in the us.

13 (20m 28s):
The Teslas,

16 (20m 29s):
60% of the EVs that were sold in the first half of this year, according to motor intelligence, were

13 (20m 34s):
Teslas the rising influence of China in the electrical vehicle market

19 (20m 40s):
At Shanghai's International Auto Show this year. The heavyweights aren't GM or Ford. They're Chinese brands

13 (20m 47s):
And the Europeans who are pursuing this aggressively.

20 (20m 51s):
Welcome to the B M W I four M 50, the first ever all electric car from B M W M,

13 (20m 58s):
As well as the traditional foreign transplant companies that are investing heavily in electrical vehicles in the United States in producing them here. The

2 (21m 7s):
Real question is whether we'll lead or we'll fall behind in the race of the future, or whether we'll build these vehicles and the batteries that go in them here in the United States rely on other countries or whether the jobs to build these vehicles and batteries are good paying union jobs

13 (21m 25s):
And it costs about $4 billion to produce an EV plant. So it's expensive and they're all committed to going out of the internal combustion engine business.

1 (21m 41s):
The union is pointing to something that I think is really interesting. Americans are increasingly concerned, and we have been for probably about a decade, about what CEOs are making, right? We know that CEOs used to make 10 or 12 times what an employee would make. Now in some cases it's 300 times a thousand times. Sean Fein, the president of U A W is saying, you guys, you guys at the C E O level, your pay has increased by x x percent. The same should be true of your workers

7 (22m 9s):
16 years of work to make what the C E O makes in a week. It is criminal. What's going on.

1 (22m 16s):
I'll tell you something, it kind of makes sense to me. It seems fair.

13 (22m 21s):
Sean feign, you're right, has cited that on average the pay of the executives has gone up 40% over the life of the last contract. And he wants the workers to get the same amount. The workers today, on average make about $30 an hour and they're asking essentially the UAWs original proposal to get up to about $43 an hour. So they weren't asking for too much of an increase over what inflation would've been if they'd had the cola, the cost of living allowance, which they gave up in 2007. If they'd have had that, that enabled them to keep pace with inflation. So the union is saying, we gave up an awful lot.

13 (23m 3s):
We had wage freezes, we gave up retiree healthcare, we gave defined benefit pension plans, and we would like to make certain that we share in the distribution of wealth. And they have escalated this attack, which is reminiscent of what the labor movement was more like in the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s as a struggle between labor and capital, between rich and poor and between the have and have nots and actually between good and evil.

7 (23m 37s):
I've heard talking heads saying, our contract demands are our class warfare. That's laughable. I see you laughing already burning it. I'm laughing because that is what we have experienced for 40 years. You bet. Except the wrong class keeps winning.

13 (23m 54s):
And so therefore they view this as a just cause to increase the wages of the workers and also to make certain that the workers are not harmed during the transition to electrification.

1 (24m 11s):
You are very informed, you're in the area, you've heard the discussions, you've seen the back and forth. Do you think this is more likely to be a short strike or a long strike?

13 (24m 19s):
I think it has the, a distinct potential of being a very long strike.

1 (24m 24s):
And if that happens, what should we be looking at both in, in terms of broader ripples in the American economy and what might actually happen in a town like Detroit and to the stock prices of these big three Auto Auto companies? Well,

13 (24m 39s):
I would look for the companies to start losing revenue quickly. They could lose each roughly $500 million a week. They might be forced to lay people off. I think that you could see ultimately a, you know, a crippling strike could force restructuring than the industry. and you may see a different nameplate out in front of the company's buildings.

1 (25m 7s):
Merrick Masters of Wayne State University. Today's episode was produced by John Ehrens and Miles Bryan. this wasn edited by Miranda Kennedy and FactCheck by Amanda Lule and Hady Mawajdeh. Our engineer is Patrick Boyd. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.