0 (0s):
Today I'm announcing the United States is targeting the main artery of Russia's economy. We're banning all imports of Russian oil and gas and energy.

2 (14s):
This war moves fast. It's not even two weeks old. Yeah. But like it started then there were these sanctions, but not sanctions on Russian oil and natural gas. That would be bad for business, but there were all these other sanctions and those were bad for business. Anyway, gas prices surged. And then all of a sudden, maybe there should be sanctions on Russian oil and gas. And then this morning gas prices hit an all time record high in the United States. Now, if you take inflation into account, but the sticker shock is real. And now the white house has announced, it will ban all Russian gas and oil on the show. Today, we're going to try and figure out where that leaves us. I'm Sean Rama's firm. It's today explained

4 (1m 8s):
If you're looking at hurting Russia, they make most of their money through oil. They make a ton of money through oil. So if you do an oil embargo, it's really going to hit them.

2 (1m 16s):
Robinson Meyer. He writes about energy for the Atlantic and even heat. Didn't see gas prices shooting as high as they did as fast as they did.

4 (1m 25s):
Yes, yes. And also I think there was some feeling that we would feel gas prices quickly, but I think one thing that's happened is we felt the surge much faster than people expected. And it is a little related to the sanctions conversation in that part of what happened is just a bunch of Western oil firms over complied with the sanctions and stopped buying Russian oil kind of before it was the policy. And so we've wound up at this place kind of faster than people expected. And in part, because the sanctions were such a big deal and there was such like disgust with Russia and with doing business with Russia. And we saw that like rapid escalation from Western companies that is like drove part of the environment where now this is even become something we can talk about.

2 (2m 10s):
I asked Robinson to help us understand why Russia is fundamental to fueling the world.

4 (2m 16s):
Okay. So Russia basically does three things that I'll list in order of importance. The first is it's just a giant oil producer. It exports about 8 million barrels of oil a day. That is a lot, I believe it's the third biggest oil producer after Saudi Arabia in the U S and oil is a big global market. Everyone feels it when a big producer comes in or comes out, it's pretty fungible. It is like the base commodity, right? It's like the prime commodity in the world. It gets carded everywhere. It's a liquid fuel. The second thing is that Russia is a giant producer of natural gas, specifically to Europe where it mostly heats European buildings and it European factories run and natural gas is like less financially important Russia.

4 (3m 5s):
And the third thing it does is like brushes a big mining producer. So it makes palladium and Nicole and those minerals are really important for the energy transition. It's the least important of the three things that it does, but it is like a part of the energy system in that way too.

2 (3m 19s):
And oil is number one, Russia needs it. The most, the world needs it. The most, a lot of countries depend on Russia.

4 (3m 26s):
It was like a global market, but it is kind of the countries that are closest to Russia. And so it's the east Asian countries and Europe. And so when you know, policymakers are talking about doing a ban on Russian oil,

5 (3m 40s):
I will tell you today, our message should be pretty clear and pretty simple, no more Russian energy should come into the United States for the duration of this bloody horrifying, an unprovoked war against Ukraine.

4 (3m 57s):
The us will ban Russian oil or the U S and some east Asian allies will ban Russian oil, but probably Europe won't for now. And that is for a variety of reasons. Like it's just a lot easier for the U S to kind of stop using Russian oil.

2 (4m 15s):
The United States is banning Russian oil, but considering the adversarial relationship, most recent American leaders have had with Latin Putin, it might come as surprise. The United States even relies on Russian oil.

4 (4m 29s):
Yes, it doesn't come in huge amounts, but it does come to the United States. It's a lot smaller in the U S but I'd say the U S has managed to import oil from a lot of countries with whom it does. It have very good relations. And, you know, even with some countries with whom it's had worse relations than Russia, it's very likely that we increase oil production and increase oil imports from Venezuela, which we also have very severe sanctions on right now. And so there's a ton of deal making that happens around oil. And that's, I, you know, that's part of the nature of the fuel too, is like, because it's so fungible and because like you put it in a barrel and then the barrel can go somewhere, right?

4 (5m 12s):
Like it's just a lot harder to control the flow of oil

2 (5m 15s):
Going into this conflict. What are the sanctions placed on Russia as they relate to boil?

4 (5m 22s):
So what's interesting is that basically the sanctions were designed by the, by administration and the EU not to hit energy at all and going to the conflict. What experts told me was that they're really going to try to avoid hitting energy. They're going to try to hit every part of the Russian economy, except energy.

6 (5m 40s):
I would note that what the president is most focused on is ensuring we are continuing to take steps to deliver punishing economic consequences on Putin. Well, taking all action necessary to limit the impact to prices at the gas pump.

2 (5m 55s):
And why was that? That was to spare the world surging prices.

4 (5m 58s):
Yeah, it was because first of all, oil prices have already gone up a lot. And this is a big political pain point for the buyer administration.

0 (6m 5s):
Of course, it's always painful when gas prices, gas prices spike.

4 (6m 10s):
And so what happened is that once the sanctions were placed on Russia and once the war started, and I think once the world fully understood what a war would mean. And to some degree, like once the public in Western countries and corporate leaders in Western countries saw the war, they responded very strongly. And I think much more strongly than like experts trying to think through the situation beforehand expected. And we saw a bunch of Western oil companies not only pull out of Russia, you know, BP started this and it said, basically, we're going to dump our Russian assets like we're done in Russia. And we're going to try to sell our assets in some fields.

4 (6m 52s):
And we realize we're going to lose hundreds of millions of dollars on this. And it's fine. Like we're willing to just accept that because we don't think it makes sense to work in this country anymore. Hm.

2 (7m 2s):
This is like overnight, this is happening.

4 (7m 3s):
Yeah. Right in that first weekend of the war. And then on a mechanics level, even though the sanctions were designed not to hit Russian energy exports, there were banks or trading houses that were like, we're so worried about reputational blow back or just, we're so worried about meeting the letter of the law here, that we don't fully understand. We're just going to pull back and very quickly, both the sanctions and the kind of organic response to the war in the west, both hit energy exports, much faster than people were expecting.

2 (7m 38s):
And thus, you see these surging prices,

7 (7m 40s):
The national average now hovering just under $4 a gallon. The spike part of a global ripple effect stemming from war with a price hike every single day, since Russian forces invaded Ukraine up a total of 38 cents here in the U S expected to go even higher as energy giants, turn their backs on Russian oil.

4 (7m 58s):
Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Now the surgeon prices are like To some degree, there's always, you know, what's causing the surging prices. Well, the prices are going up. You know, it's like very hard to talk about why markets do something. I think part it's, it's hard in this case to disentangle the fact that like oil prices were already increasing, going into the conflict. And there's a bunch of reasons for that. And we can talk about them. But basically the world has reopened from the pandemic and is consuming a lot of oil because people are driving places and flying and goods are being shipped.

4 (8m 39s):
And oil production has not come online as much as it was before the pandemic. And so that primed the pump, so to speak for these high oil prices. And then when the war hits and there's geopolitical risk, and suddenly investors are nervous and drivers are nervous. Even if there was no hit to the Russian oil sector, we would've seen prices go up just because people start to get nervous. They want to hold onto oil.

2 (9m 4s):
We're talking a lot here about markets and nerves. Is there a shortage or are people just nervous that there might eventually be a shortage?

4 (9m 14s):
I think people are just nervous that there might one day be a shortage. You know, there's still a ton of oil in the country. It is not like the 1970s oil embargo from OPEC countries on the U S right, where there was not enough oil to go around.

8 (9m 32s):
Good evening for millions of Americans. This may be the worst weekend I've ever faced for finding gasoline to give them the automobile freedom. They take us there. Do,

9 (9m 41s):
I've been at two gas lines already this morning, this morning. How long did you wait for the first man in both lines over hour? And I'm out of gas

4 (9m 48s):
So far, this is all just happening and kind of people's projections and companies trying to hold onto oil. None of this has reached a level of a true shortage,

2 (9m 59s):
But that didn't stop this from getting very political, at least in the United States.

10 (10m 4s):
If we are not willing to stand up and take some hurt along the way and sacrifice along the way, then I don't think we do a credit to this incredible struggle. And I think the American people will rise to the occasion.

4 (10m 15s):
And if you look at Joe Biden's approval ratings, setting aside the one month where news was dominated by Afghanistan, there's a direct correlational relationship between how low gas prices are and his approval rating in the U S it is just like the important commodity for the U S and, you know, I cover climate change oil. We've got to move away from it, but it's a very important fuel to the economy. You know, it like it, it is what powers most of the transportation sector in the U S we get chemicals from it. It is like a very important part of the economy for now. And when it gets expensive, everyone feels it in different ways.

4 (10m 58s):
And so on Sunday, secretary of state Lincoln said, wow,

11 (11m 2s):
We are now in, in very active discussions with our European partners about banning the import of Russian oil.

4 (11m 9s):
And it has been an idea that's gotten actually a lot of bipartisan support in Congress. So, you know, Nancy Pelosi, I'm

12 (11m 16s):
All for that ban from Russia

4 (11m 19s):
And Joe mansion

13 (11m 21s):
Energy has become a weapon of war for Putin. He's using it against all of your, if you will, but your crane is basically the catalyst of what he's doing.

4 (11m 29s):
And macro Rubio,

14 (11m 30s):
By the way, this notion that somehow banning Russian oil would raise prices on American consumers is an admission that this guy, that this killer, that this butcher of Bladimir Putin has leverage over us. Why would we want that leverage to continue?

4 (11m 43s):
And Lindsey Graham,

15 (11m 44s):
Every barrel of oil coming out of Russia has blood in it. So if you hit the oil and gas sector that will further crush the Ruple

2 (11m 51s):
And now president Biden to

0 (11m 54s):
We're moving forward. This band understanding that many of our European allies and partners may not be in a position to join us. The United States produces far more oil domestically than all of Europe, all the European countries combined,

2 (12m 7s):
But the president was Biden this time on,

4 (12m 10s):
I think the bite administration was very nervous about it because it really didn't want to send oil prices. And specifically gasoline prices higher than they already are. This has been a huge pain point for them. Oil companies in the U S were already complying like over complying with the sanctions and just not important, important Russian oil. And so the white house may have decided like, look, this has already started like this genie's out of the bottle. And so we might as well get the benefit of this being a policy rather than just something that's happening. The second is that like American voters are open to it. People really want to, how would I put it? Like

2 (12m 47s):
People want to cancel Russia. People

4 (12m 49s):
Want to cancel Russia. Exactly. They like are willing to pay. I mean, Joe Manchin said

13 (12m 57s):
Paul being taped and he said, Joe, would you pay 10 cents more, a gallon to support the people of Ukraine and stop basically the supportive restaurant, I would gladly pay 10 cents more again.

4 (13m 6s):
And at least with an embargo on Russian oil, like drivers will be able to understand more why it's happening. And it will kind of be something external to the United States rather than something that's happening here.

2 (13m 22s):
And an embargo means prices go even higher.

4 (13m 26s):
Yes. Higher oil prices are coming to every part of the world, basically, certainly for the next six months

2 (13m 41s):
What's to be done in a minute.

16 (13m 55s):
This is advertiser content from the American cancer society

17 (13m 59s):
To my community. The people who allow me to be myself, no matter what and who are there for me through the ups and downs of my cancer journey. And it's been a journey. I was born in El Salvador and grew up undocumented in California. It was a hard start and it only got harder. When I was pulled out of the closet at 15, I had to face my parents' worries about having a gay son. Later that year, I would faint a lot in school. I was diagnosed with leukemia, which eventually created a mess in my brain. Mom, you sacrificed so much to be my primary caretaker. You went through the painful process of donating your bone marrow. To me, I'm your only child.

17 (14m 40s):
And you gave me life twice that you really show me what it means to be a father, to stay committed, regardless of any circumstances for people like me, circumstances can be hard. One in four queer adults in this country don't have health insurance cancer remains the leading cause of death for Latinos in the United States. I am a DACAmented American. I'm a community organizer in Los Angeles, and I want to become a college counselor so I can help young people know that they belong. And I will make the most of my life, regardless of my diagnosis, con mucho more Jose Guevara.

16 (15m 21s):
Your support can help make all the difference in the life of a cancer patient by helping fund life, saving resources, visit cancer.org, to donate, and to learn more about cancer screening detection and treatment

2 (15m 34s):
Support for the shutter. It comes from Canva pro, do you ever see a friend of yours or a family member do something really cool with Photoshop and you go, man, I really want to do stuff like that. I wish I were good at Photoshop. Maybe I should go to college and take a Photoshop class, but then like reality sets in and you realize you have no time to go back to college to take a class in Photoshop because you're 40 and you have two kids and a mortgage and a car. And did I mention the gas prices? Listen, you don't need to worry about all these things anymore because there's Canva pro it's a design platform with endless premium fonts. What fonts are you using?

2 (16m 14s):
Are they premium? If not throw them out, use Canva pro it's a design platform. That'll make you feel like you took a class in college about Photoshop, but you didn't. You just have canvas pro. And right now you can design like a pro with canvas pro and you can get a free 45 day extended trial. When you use our promo code, just go to Canva dot M E slash explained to get your free 45 day extended trial. That's canva.me/explain canva.me/explained,

18 (16m 50s):
Oh my God, oh my God.

19 (16m 53s):
A hundred dollars. And it's not even a full tank.

20 (16m 56s):
It really hurts the people that have to drive 20 and 30 miles every day to and from work.

21 (17m 2s):
I think I'm going to start walking when it had six. I think I'm gonna max out

2 (17m 8s):
We're back just to review no sanctions on Russian oil, because that be bad for gas prices, but then the whole thing is bad for gas prices. Anyway. So what the heck let's place an embargo on Russian oil, which is surely just going to be even worse for gas prices. So let's talk solutions. Yeah. I asked Robinson what's to be done other than, you know, ending the war, which obviously

4 (17m 28s):
A bunch of things. I mean, so the first is that, of course, is that we could move away from fossil fuels, which we have to do anyway to fight climate change. It's a big goal of the byte administration and many governments in Europe. And as far as oil prices and gasoline prices are concerned, that mostly means switching electric vehicles and other forms of like electrified transit and public transit. And like the U S should invest a ton of money. Congress should pass some very aggressive pilot policy. That's what we need right now. We need to start planning that being said, there's a few options.

4 (18m 10s):
The Biden administration has The first. And I think the one that we're most likely to see first is that it's going to try to reach a new deal with Iran because Iran has a bunch of oil that it could be producing that it's not producing right now. And it would love to get her on back on the world oil market.

2 (18m 29s):
So they want to get more oil on the market, even though there isn't necessarily a shortage at present. Yes,

4 (18m 34s):
Yes. If you want to keep oil prices down, you have like two ways to do it. You can reduce demand how much oil people burn, or you can increase supply. If you do a deal with Iran, you're going to increase supply and that's going to help keep prices low. The kind of like last thing the U S could do to increase oil, to decrease oil prices, which again is not reducing oil demand is like the U S could produce more oil from The large geological, like reserves that it already has,

2 (19m 10s):
But there's also always tapping into the strategic reserve if I remember correctly.

4 (19m 15s):
And they, the us has already done twice now. So We keep, you know, the U S and other developed countries keep tens of millions of barrels of oil just sitting around in case something happens and

2 (19m 29s):
Something like a war,

4 (19m 30s):
Something like a war. Yeah. Or one of the main reasons for it is so that basically, if there was a big war and the us participated that the us would have enough gasoline and fossil fuels to fund its military, but it has also become used to kind of like stabilize the effect of geopolitics on global oil markets. And twice now the U S in conjunction with other countries has released oil from its strategic reserve, sold it on the open market. And that has briefly lowered prices kind of twice. The issue with that is it's just a one-time thing. You sell the oil. It goes out, it gets used, does not make a longterm effect on production.

4 (20m 18s):
And to some degree we're in this funny place, because basically for 40 years, the goal of us energy policy was that we wouldn't be dependent on foreign oil, that we'd produce enough oil for us at home. So that no matter what was happening in the world, the USB insulated from oil shocks. And of course at this point, the U S is the largest oil and natural gas producer in the world. We have achieved at least on paper, this energy independence, we were looking for 40 years. And what we found is that actually oil is a big global market prices are set. Internationally oil kind of can go anywhere in the world, a fat lot of good it's done for us. You know, like we produce a ton of oil in the United States, and that has not done very much to keep oil prices down when there was trouble in the, in the larger world.

4 (21m 5s):
So a lot of politicians want us oil companies to drill more, to frack more. I think that's going to be hard because fracking companies kind of were producing too much oil during the 20 teens. And they lost a lot of money and now they feel like they need to make a consistent profit for their shareholders. And so they're actually really happy for oil prices to go up and they're very reluctant to drill more. And so the administration is going to have to control their investors to actually accept lower profits.

2 (21m 32s):
So it sounds like all of these solutions you're talking about Robinson would incrementally help eventually, but the overarching solution here to avoid crises, like these would just be to become less reliant on oil, which of course has been, say, like president Biden's strategy from the jump. Although if you were paying attention to his state of the union last week, it seemed to be much less of a priority than it used to be.

4 (22m 1s):
Yeah, definitely. And that is because a lot of the president's climate policies have just been frozen in Congress, you know, plans to incentivize Americans to buy more electric cars, to build out renewable electricity, to power those cars. Right now that's just sitting in Congress and, and waiting for, you know, Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Senator Sinema of Arizona to find a way to support, perhaps this is a no. And so I think the white house would still love to support some of those policies, but they are so frozen. It doesn't even know how to advance them that weirdly, even though this is the main way to reduce our long-term dependence on oil to improve American energy security, it is like not something that's been on the agenda so much.

2 (22m 55s):
It just feels a little bananas right now that the whole world is facing this energy crisis that, that we could solve. And yet in the moment where we could actually commit to solving it. So we're never in this situation again, the solution is like, why don't we do energy diversification? The solution is like, let's hit up Iran for way more oil.

4 (23m 17s):
And it's so funny to compare it to like 2008, 2007. With the last time the gas prices were really, really high when like, there was this huge push to move lower carbon electricity and lower carbon energy. Because like, frankly, it was like the last year of George W. Bush his term. And so people were like, oh, we gotta do this environmental stuff like this Republican hasn't been doing it, but because Biden's already in office. And because he's already kind of been trying to get this energy bill through, it feels like there's less of a push, but like, yes, this is the thing. Like we, if we moved away from fossil fuels, then our exposure to any of these problems just as an economy would be lower. And the crazy thing is like, not only that, but like what we've already found during the past year is like brake oil prices were going up, going to the war.

4 (24m 5s):
And that's because the U S economy was doing really well. We were adding a ton of jobs, but we were finding that there was a limit to how good the U S economy could be without oil prices going up a lot. And if we decarbonize the economy, we would take some of that limit away. We'd get rid of some of those constraints. The U S economy could be doing even better. And so there's a ton of reasons to do it, but I think it's going to take way more of like a public push to turn this moment where oil prices are going to be really high and to a moment where we actually successfully move away from oil and gas,

2 (24m 50s):
Robinson Meyer, he writes about energy at the Atlantic. You can find his work@theatlantic.com. Our program today was produced by Hottie Milwaukee who just bought a house. Congratulations. Heidi had help from Halima Shaw who just bought a car. My condolences I'd help editing the show today from Matthew Collette, Paul mousey engineered and Laura Bullard fact checked with help from Amina . This is today explained.