0 (1s):
You are the men who gave them the power to destroy themselves, and the world is not prepared.

1 (8s):
Oppenheimer opens in theaters today. Christopher Nolan's feverishly anticipated film about the brilliant but troubled father of the atomic bomb. Do you guys ever think about dying? Yeah. No, I don't wanna talk about Oppenheimer today.

3 (24s):
You can go back to your regular life, or you can know the

1 (26s):
Truth about

3 (27s):
The Universe. The choice

1 (29s):
Is now

3 (30s):
Yours. The first

1 (31s):
One. Okay ladies, let's do this.

4 (34s):
Let's do this.

1 (37s):
Flip on those heels fall off your roof. We're having a giant blowout party with planned choreography and a bespoke song, and we're gonna sleep over tonight because we're girlfriend, boyfriend. It's today explained and it's the best day ever.

5 (60s):
Hello, I'm Esther Perel. I'm a psychotherapist and host of the podcast. Where should we begin? I invite you to enter into my office and to listen in on the sessions that I conduct with people from all walks of life, grappling with the challenges and choices in their relationships. Join me in my office every Monday morning for a new episode. Listen and follow. Where should we begin on your favorite podcast app?

1 (1m 31s):
It's some of the most expensive meat in the world, but is it even meat? This summer. for the first time, Americans are gonna be able to try actual chicken meat that didn't involve killing a chicken This

6 (1m 43s):
Episode of Gastropod. we are among the very first people to taste our way through these brand new lab grown offerings. Chicken, hamburger, bacon, salmon, blue fin tuna, We tasted at All.

1 (1m 54s):
We wanted to know whether it matches up to the real thing, but we also wanted to know if it can ever really replace meat from animals. Not to mention keep our planet from going up in smoke.

6 (2m 5s):
Find Gastropod wherever you get your podcasts and taste the future.

2 (2m 10s):
Hi Barbie.

7 (2m 11s):
Hi Noelle.

1 (2m 12s):
It's today explained. Alex Barish is a culture writer and editor at The New Yorker. Alex, how did a Barbie movie happen?

7 (2m 20s):
I think we're in this moment where Hollywood has a kind of risk aversion. There's a real anxiety about getting viewership, getting audiences, all of these things. And increasingly they're turning to the kind of tried and true pre-tested material. And Barbie is, you know, one of the big intellectual properties that had remained untapped. Mattel are trying to dive into this industry. And now we have a very interesting match in this doll and Gretta oig.

1 (2m 46s):
How many different trailers do you guess? You've seen

7 (2m 50s):
Too many

3 (2m 51s):
Since the beginning of time. There have been dolls, but the dolls were always and forever baby dolls until

1 (3m 5s):
It is kind of deranged. How many are out there? It almost seems like you'd watched the whole movie through the trailer.

8 (3m 10s):
You're gonna start getting sad and wishy complicated.

9 (3m 14s):
She's not dead, she's just having an existential crisis.

1 (3m 18s):
What do you sense is the thing that everyone is so excited about?

7 (3m 22s):
I mean, I think the talent involved, you know, you know Greta Goig doing this, Noah Baumberg doing this. Margo Robbie being Barbie Ryan. Goling being Ken, one of many Barbie and one of many Ken's I should say. Hi

11 (3m 31s):
Barbie. Hi Barbie. Hi Barbie. Hi Barbie. Hi Barbie. Hi

1 (3m 35s):
Barbie. Hi Barbie. Hi.

11 (3m 37s):
Hi.

7 (3m 37s):
Barbie And the sort of aesthetic of the thing and the, the strangeness of it. I think, you know, it started as kind of a joke and it became a meme and then people were like, wait a minute, they might actually be onto something here so

10 (3m 47s):
I could feel myself leaning into it. Like, and being kind of curious about it and also feeling scared, which is usually when there's something good about it.

1 (3m 56s):
It started as a joke, it became a meme. It seems like it is rooted in fear, which is funny in and of itself. Hollywood's fear of trying to create something new and so they turned to something old, something known. Yeah.

7 (4m 9s):
And you know, this is, this is nothing new. It's certainly in the past few years we've seen this real reliance on franchises and on existing ip. There's this notion that I came across in my reporting of pre-awareness. you know, the idea that we're in, you know, we're in this moment with the pandemic Multiplexers are just not bringing in audiences the way they used to do. Everyone's trying to figure out how to get people back into theaters. And the answer that a lot of studio execs seem to have arrived at is give the people something that they already know, that we already know they like or they're interested by. And that will hopefully bring them in.

10 (4m 42s):
I wanted it to be obviously dazzling and hilarious and this kind of imaginative cornucopia of, of crazy barness.

1 (4m 52s):
Alright, so while you were writing this piece, you actually got to go behind the scenes to see how the studio is trying to make this a hit. Tell us about who is producing Barbie and how they sort of spun it into this presumed blockbuster.

7 (5m 7s):
Yes, so this is a co-production between Warner Brothers, which is, you know, the the type of Putney you might expect and Mattel films, which is not the Putney you might expect for any sort of film project. And in 2018, Enon Crates became the CEO of Mattel and he essentially decided he was gonna reinvent the whole company. you know, it was really struggling. Toys are us had just gone out of business. They'd posted 300 million in dollars in losses, and he said, look, we're sitting on this bank of IP that in his view is quote, you know, second only to Disney in terms of children's entertainment. And we haven't redone anything with it yet. So what we need to do is stop being a toy company and start being an IP company.

12 (5m 48s):
We're now shifting gear into our entertainment strategy and growing our entertainment offering with more content, consumer product and digital experiences.

7 (5m 59s):
And he needed to reclaim the rights to all of the different brands that they had licensed out to other studios. Because Mattel have tried this in the past. you know, there have been deals to make a Hot Wheels movie before. They've been a Barbie movie in development at Sony for years. They've tried Amy Schumer, they tried on Hathaway and the tone of that film was much more sort of periodic, you know, Barbie was the butt of the joke and he said, we can't have that. We need something different. And they had to go through the act of reclaiming all of these things so that they could then put their own stamp on it in the way they wanted to. So he got to work on that immediately. And the other person who'd been, you know, watching the rights like a hawk was Mugga Robi.

7 (6m 39s):
And so the two of them met, you know, within months of crates coming into his position at Mattel and started to get things in motion.

12 (6m 46s):
Barbie was the number one property globally for the year, in fact, for the second year in a row. And continued to grow, continue to innovate and represent the world. So a lot of momentum in the movie is going to be worth waiting for.

1 (6m 60s):
And so what did it look like to get things in motion? How does this proceed from there?

7 (7m 4s):
So Moga Robbie's idea was to enlist Greta Goig, that was kind of her dream writer for the project.

13 (7m 10s):
And there was very few people I'd wanna do this with. And Greta was the top of the list. And kind of like if she said, no, I don, I don't, I just dunno what I would've done.

7 (7m 19s):
Did you have, so she goes to her, kind of makes her pitch and says, you know, I think we could do something great with this together. And from there she ends up going to El Segundo, which is where Mattel's headquarters are based and making this pilgrimage that now many filmmakers have made to their sort of toy workshop where she gets this crash course in the history of Bobi, every past model, every costume, every dream house. And then that becomes photo for the film that she ultimately makes. And this is the kind of opening gambit of the Mattel Cinematic Universe. They're actually 45 films in development now. You've got JJ Abrams doing Hot Wheels, you've got Daniel co doing Bernie. We are opening into something truly wild. So,

1 (7m 59s):
So what we're seeing is that Mattel is okay spending money on these movies. What has happened in the past that has made them okay with spending 145 million? What's the track record here?

7 (8m 10s):
Well, the interesting thing is that it's actually not their money. So they have a model that's sort of capital light as they put it. What they're bringing to the table is essentially the I key. So they're saying like, they'll partner with a studio or a streamer and say, you can have our characters and in exchange you're the ones bankrolling this. And they have a lot more creative control than they've had in in past projects, I think. And, and that has been definitely a point of tension in terms of the making of Bobi where there were things that Greta wanted to do that they were not fully comfortable with, but they've kept an eye on these past Cinematic universes. They, they saw what Hasbro did with Transformers, they saw what Hasbro didn't manage to do with several other board games after that.

7 (8m 58s):
And they've tried to learn from those mistakes to, to make this a more successful venture. But you know, time will tell whether that pays off.

1 (9m 4s):
What do we think is going to happen? Do we think it's gonna pay off? I mean, everyone I know is talking about it and plans to go see it in the, the theater. So it seems like something good happened here.

7 (9m 14s):
Yeah, the hype is unreal and clearly there are other people in Hollywood who are taking note of this and partnering with them, you know, as a result of the fact that this is the big opening swing. I think that Bobi will be a success. you know, it's on track to make a lot of money at the box office and it's first week and it already has paid dividends for them in terms of all these brand partnerships. And they've got special limited edition dolls that, you know, are based on the looks from the film and they're all selling out. Like, it, it's, it's done a lot for them in terms of their cultural capital that they didn't have before. But the question now is where we go from here and whether the same thing could possibly happen with Uno, the movie and don don't know that it will,

1 (10m 0s):
I'm thinking of the, the Marvel comparison, Marvel movies, they do make money, but I think the, the Bloom is off the Rose and it's been years since one of them has been considered like really good or you know, saying something profound and provocative about society, which you get the hint that that review for Barbie will come out at some point. You'll get the NY Mag review and it'll be like, you know, this is deep. Is there a sense that this is deep or is, or is there a risk that this is just a two hour commercial for like a toy?

7 (10m 30s):
Yeah, I mean I think there was a very real risk of this just being a commercial for a toy. And I think it's, you know, it's, it's possible that there will be others in this Cinematic Universe that essentially function in that way. But it does seem like for Bobbi, you know, time and time again, Greta Goig really pushed for creative freedom and got it. And you know, if she managed to get away with this and if they take the right lessons from it, then maybe we do end up with some interesting things coming out of the Mattel Cinematic Universe. But it's, it's, it's really gonna be a question of whether other filmmakers have the same license and have the same ambition and, and whether the toys that they end up working with actually have the same dramatic potential. you know, Boba is kind of a lightning rod in our culture, and I think that gives you the potential to play and really engage in some thematically resonant material.

7 (11m 17s):
But not everything will have the same potential

1 (11m 27s):
Coming up. Is it good? Is Barbie a good movie? An adult human woman joins us with her review.

14 (11m 40s):
I overheard a woman at the supermarket say the strangest thing. She said, there goes Bobby Poor thing. She doesn't know she's a toy created by a corporation. Silly thing has never wondered where the car or the house came from. And the truth is, I'd never thought of those things until today. Today is the first and very last day of my life.

1 (12m 5s):
Okay, so you are fresh from seeing Barbara's movie. Let's start with this. What do you think this movie is trying to say?

16 (12m 12s):
This movie is trying to say a lot.

1 (12m 15s):
It's today explained. Shirley Lee is a staff writer at The Atlantic.

16 (12m 18s):
First it is saying that Barbie is not just a product but a worthwhile protagonist. It is trying to say that Barbie as a doll has always been the subject of debate because well, she's supposed to represent a woman and the ideal woman at that, it is also trying to say that Barbie land is flawed in its own way, Despite how perfect it seems. And it is trying to say that Ken needs a purpose.

15 (12m 49s):
I just don't know who I am with Chy, you're 10, but it's Barbie and Ken, there is no just Ken.

1 (12m 59s):
So Barbie is not just a product, she's a protagonist and she's supposed to be the ideal woman. Who is that for? I mean, I never had Barbies. I had like a Kmart knockoff, but I don't remember even as a girl Barbie really being, for me, this notion that she's the ideal woman for whom,

16 (13m 18s):
And this is something that the film tackles the, the history of Barbie begins with Ruth Handler, her creator in the fifties, realizing that her daughter Barbara, you know, needed a doll that wasn't just a baby doll. I don't know if you know folks really know this history, but essentially, you know, little girls were just playing with baby dolls and playing the role of mother. And so Barbie was kind of created to be an alternative to that.

17 (13m 46s):
The whole idea was that a little girl could dream dreams of growing up.

16 (13m 52s):
The fascinating thing about the Barbie doll is that after all these decades on the market, Barbie has never been married and she doesn't have to be a homemaker. She, her whole message, her whole thing is that she's Barbie and she can be anything. And so she's technically for young girls to understand that they can be anything. And that may seem like a wonderful message for young girls to hear, but the film is kind of about how paralyzing that can be and how stifling it is as a message and how just it, it kind of ignores the fact that being a woman is more difficult than just telling yourself that, hey, everything's possible.

13 (14m 41s):
It's not just that the movie is unexpected. I think it's that Greta kind of pushes it in directions that I didn't think they would let us go in. And I think a big part of that was kind of acknowledging the things that people find problematic about Bobby as well as the things that people love about Bobby.

16 (14m 55s):
Here, I'll put it this way, if I told you that you're about to see a film that is about the ridiculous expectations around womanhood, you'd probably expect like a lecture. Yeah, right. You're, you're expecting something academic, something didactic, you're, it's, it's gonna be someone on screen being like, boy, it's tough being a woman,

1 (15m 17s):
Something kind of gloomy.

16 (15m 19s):
Yes. And, and just grim and yeah, sobering. Yeah. And instead what Greta Gerwig, the, the writer director has done is she's just, she's kind of nestled that in this bright and bubbly and sunny and wild adventure about a pair of dolls. And it's absurd. But because of all of that, you get to the end of the movie and you're like, well, of course it's absurd. Who, who would've gone into a film that that, that, that is just being sold to you as it's about womanhood, you know, and, and it's a little bit sad that you can't, I, I'm trying to think of a different word, but this is the word for it. You can't consume a movie about womanhood that takes womanhood seriously without silliness as its cover.

16 (15m 59s):
That's really what fuels this movie and makes it way more interesting than just, you know, a brand extension. Yeah. Well, well

1 (16m 8s):
Also, the fact that it is a Greta Gerwig movie, how does this fit into Greta Gerhig's previous filmmaking and how does it fit into a gerian conception of feminism or what it means to be a woman?

16 (16m 23s):
I love the term gian

1 (16m 26s):
Tm. Yeah, yeah.

16 (16m 27s):
Adding it, adding it into the official, you know, film lexicon. I mean, First of all, it's very much about the cultural touchstones that are formative to girls. That is something you can also say about little women, right? It's a novel that Greta Gerig herself has talked about reading as a child and kind of being this important marker of what she understood to be sisterhood and womanhood. And Barbie is very much another touchstone as a toy. She has represented what a woman should be for young girls. And I think a lot of what Greta Gerwig has done in her project so far as a writer director have been about reconciling how she, how girls learn to be women.

16 (17m 20s):
Yeah, that probably sounds kind of lofty and serious, but think about it, right? Like Lady Bird is very much about her own childhood and her coming of age and exploring how Lady Bird comes to accept herself and, and realize that she is already the best version of herself that she can be. I wish

18 (17m 38s):
That you liked me, of course I love you, but do you like me? I want you to be the very best version of yourself that you can be.

19 (17m 55s):
What if this is the best version?

16 (17m 58s):
That's the thrust of little women that each of these March sisters are learning from each other and from their experiences to become the women they are. you know,

20 (18m 11s):
I just, I just feel, I just feel like women, they, they have minds and they have souls as well as just hearts, and they've got ambition and they've got talent as well as just beauty. And I'm so sick of people saying that, that love is just all a woman is fit for, I'm so sick of it, but I'm, I'm so lonely.

16 (18m 40s):
And Greta makes that very clear by, you know, chopping up the book and collapsing the timelines, which is why her, her adaptation of the novel, and I think it's like the seventh film adaptation of the novel feels so fresh. You, you get this reconsideration of certain characters you hadn't thought about as deeply before. And in this, in Barbie, she's reconsidering Barbie. She's taking a character that we, you know, whether you played with Barbies or not, I, I did play with Barbies as a kid.

19 (19m 13s):
I wanted to, yeah,

16 (19m 15s):
Well, well there you go. You, you must have had some opinion of Barbie. You must have either wanted a Barbie or you want to be, to be seen a certain way when you were playing with Barbies. And maybe as you grew up, you wanted to hide those Barbies. I know I did. And I think she's the kind of filmmaker who really just takes that and, and picks at it and kind of asks you, well, why did you wanna look away from Barbie? But why did you also want to look at Barbie? Why did you want to play with Barbie? Why, why is Barbie such a cultural, you know, flashpoint? And I think those are the themes that she's very preoccupied within her work. And that goes back to her performances in mumble core films. you know, that Francis ha is very much of, you know, about being a 20 something woman, trying to figure out what she should be doing in her life and you know, where she stands with her best friend.

21 (20m 6s):
Tell me the story of us

19 (20m 8s):
Again. All right, Francis, we are gonna take off the world.

21 (20m 14s):
You'll be this awesomely bitchy publishing mogul,

19 (20m 17s):
And you'll be this famous modern dancer and I'll publish a really expensive book about you.

21 (20m 22s):
The dbags we make fun of will put on their coffee tables.

16 (20m 26s):
And I, I'd say the last thing I'd say about this, because I could go on and on and on about Greta Gerwig of like, I think something that really ties her films together is that she just takes girlhood and womanhood and that experience extremely seriously. And they come through in these beautiful monologues that I think in any other writer, director's hands might come off again, didactic or, or preachy. But they sound so natural because she's had all this experience as a performer, and Barbie is no different. There's pivotal monologue that's delivered that kind of follows in the footsteps of Amy's monologue in little women, lady Birds at the end of Lady Bird, et cetera, et cetera.

16 (21m 14s):
And,

1 (21m 14s):
And you wrote about it, you wrote about the monologue. The monologue does not come from Barbara, it comes from the human character, Gloria played by America Ferrera. We don't, we don't wanna do spoilers, but but give me a sense of why you, you know, the Atlantic magazine says, surely it can write about anything you want. And you say, I'm gonna write about Gloria's monologue. What's up there?

16 (21m 35s):
Well, I think the first thing that really just hooked me was the idea that this was coming from a human woman. When this entire film is so populated by Barbies and Ken's and jokes about Barbies and Ken's loving jokes, and then also characters who are employees at Mattel who are absurd and, you know, they're led by Will Ferrell. And then the, the speech goes to the one human woman, and it's a great speech that's longer than the other monologues I've mentioned. But I, I think what's fascinating about it is that it says a lot of things I think women know it's so straightforward and it is somewhat sobering, but it works because the rest of the film has been so bubbly and wild and, you know, just magical that when this comes, it doesn't feel preachy.

16 (22m 33s):
It just feels like, well this is fact. Being a woman is, is about figuring out how to deal with these contradictions that when you're a girl, maybe you do believe Barbie's whole message about being anything, but as you grow up, you start to realize that the value that women have in society is, is lower than maybe you were taught. And it just feels very Greta Gerwig and, and it's what kind of grounds the film from being this, like this brand exercise making you buy more Barbies. It, I I don't think it actually encourages you to buy Barbie. It encourages you to think about Barbie.

1 (23m 12s):
Surely yes. Is it good? Is it a good movie?

16 (23m 15s):
I think it's good. Look, I I'll tell you this, the, the closer I got to my screening, the more anxious I became just because, I mean, you and I both know we've been bombarded, we have been bombarded Oh, my God stop with the,

1 (23m 28s):
And as women,

16 (23m 31s):
Yeah, it's just like, inevitably I've gotten more and more worried about it. But I think the reason why it's good is with that all all of these things I've been saying about how new, how like nuanced it is, it, it just engages with that. And I, I think it's good because the performances are good. It's having so much fun. It is an absolute blast. While at the same time understanding that it's an unusual film and that, you know, it can't just be a movie that's selling Barbie. And I don't think it is that, and I'll, but I will, I will say this. Look, as an adult human woman, I think it's good.

16 (24m 11s):
Stop playing with him.

22 (24m 15s):
Party

1 (24m 19s):
Shirley Lee is a staff writer for the Atlantic Magazine. Hoti Mawajdeh. This Barbie is a producer, Matthew Collette. This Barbie is an editor, Laura Bullard. This Barbie is a fact checker. Michael Rayfield. This Barbie is an engineer. I'm Noelle King, I'm an adult human woman. And this is today. Explain

22 (24m 40s):
Out. We ain't selling out. We got money, but we ain't letting out. We got bars but we ain't bail.