1 (3s):
I want to let you know as you may know already that we will begin our open hearings in the impeachment inquiry next week. We will be beginning with the testimony of Ambassador Taylor and Ambassador Kent on Wednesday. And we will have Ambassador jovanovic testify on Friday. These will be the first of the open hearings and you broke up politics Vox. We now know that this impeachment inquiry will go go live on television beginning mid next week on Wednesday. But this week has been the week of transcripts. What documents did we get this week

2 (39s):
house Democrats who have been conducting these closed or depositions of various current and former Administration officials have finally started to release those transcripts on Monday. We got one from Murray yovanovich the former US ambassador to Ukraine and from Michael McKinley a former senior advisor to the secretary. If State on Tuesday, we got transcripts from Kurt Volker the former US Special representative to Ukraine and Gordon Sunland the US ambassador to the European Union and on Wednesday. We got one from Bill Taylor. Who's the current top us Diplomat in Ukraine?

1 (1m 21s):
Okay. Well, let's go through them starting with Ambassador jovanovic.

2 (1m 26s):
She was not around anymore as the Ambassador when the main events in this Scandal happened when Trump had his call with the Ukrainian president when the military aid was being withheld so her story is kind of interesting mainly as a prologue to this whole Saga. She said I couldn't imagine all of the things that have happened she describes what is basically a smear campaign against her. With the participation of some Ukrainian officials from Rudy Giuliani. I heard very bad things about her and I don't know if I recalled or somebody recalled it but I heard very very bad things about it for a long period of time not good and she just narrates from her point of view what it was like to go through all this and eventually to hear that Trump told the Ukrainian president of her former Ambassador.

2 (2m 22s):
Jovanovic. Well, she's going to go through some things. What does that mean? She said she had no idea what it meant. She said there's a universe of what it could mean. I don't know but she was told to leave Ukraine on the next plane. It was very ominous terms. They were worried that her security could be at risk and she like was wondering was this a physical threat and then she eventually was told no, it wasn't a physical threat what they're worried about. Is that true? It's send a tweet attacking her.

1 (2m 54s):
Well, you know that seems fair who's transcripts were released after that. Any Bombshells?

2 (2m 58s):
Yes. Oh Kurt Volker. We already had his opening statement various texts of his so the full transcript of what he said didn't reveal too much but more interestingly. There is Gordon

1 (3m 11s):
sandland.

2 (3m 15s):
I think he's been widely viewed as the least credible witness to have testified in this entire Saga so far. He was plagued by repeated failures of memories. I don't recall. I don't recall. I don't recall. He kept saying

1 (3m 29s):
son was the guy who like bought his way into a diplomatic position with the Trump Administration

2 (3m 33s):
exactly. He gave a million dollars through various shell companies to the Trump inauguration. He was named US ambassador to the European Union and then he kind of Took on a large role in Ukraine policy and became according to other Witnesses testimony a sort of enforcer of the quid pro quo repeatedly saying he was acting on Trump's

1 (3m 59s):
behalf. So he's in the rear position of having paid a million dollars to be a part of this hot

2 (4m 3s):
mess. Yes. It's a it's a rare feat. But what happened after he testified is that two other Witnesses Bill Taylor from the state department and and to Marcin from the National Security Council testified at some length about various conversations with saddle and they were involved in described what Sunland was telling them how he said that in fact the a to Ukraine did hinge on whether they launched the investigations Trump wanted that Sunland said that he was in contact with Trump on this and that Trump kept saying there's no quid pro quo, but I want the Ukrainian president to do these things to commit to these investigations publicly Sunland didn't remember any of this so he claims initially and before his transcript was released on Tuesday.

2 (5m 2s):
He and his lawyer submitted an addendum to his original sworn testimony saying that the testimony of Taylor and Marcin has refreshed my recollection about certain Asians in early September 2019 Gordon sunlen a top us Diplomat now says he believes the Trump Administration demanded a quid pro quo from Ukraine. He says that he now recalls telling a senior advisor to Ukraine's president that the hundreds of millions of dollars in withheld military aid probably hinged on whether they've launched those investigations into the company tied to Joe Biden's son and into the 2016 election.

2 (5m 48s):
Ukrainian interference, it may seem hard to believe that you would forget telling the ukrainians this but that is what's anwen is claiming.

1 (6m 1s):
What kind of example is that setting for the children are Drew,

2 (6m 4s):
you know, it's possible that he just is really suffering from some memory problems. But you know, maybe he shouldn't really be in this post if his memory of things that happened just a couple months ago or so poor and you know his His memory is still continuing to be quite flawed. He is not remembering conversations. He was telling others that he had with Donald Trump about this and he is notably vague in the new statement on how he learned that the military aid was being tied to the investigations. He says that he simply presumed this. So even the updated testimony is a little hard to

1 (6m 46s):
believe. But song still isn't saying the president ordered some sort of quid pro quo. Well, the big

2 (6m 53s):
admission of sunland's updated testimony was the acknowledgement of what other Witnesses have said that in fact, the quid pro quo military aid for investigations was communicated to the ukrainians. He had been saying he didn't remember doing this now he admits it. He still not admitting that it came from President Trump. However other Witnesses have said that at the time sumlin told them he talked to President Trump multiple times and that this is in fact what President Trump

1 (7m 25s):
wanted? Who is he throwing under the bus? If not President Trump, he's trying to

2 (7m 29s):
pin as much on Rudy Giuliani as possible Rudy.

1 (7m 33s):
I'm a pretty good lawyer just a country lawyer.

2 (7m 35s):
He keeps saying that this whole idea of the investigations came from Rudy. So yeah, it's

1 (7m 44s):
something where is Rudy and all this? He's not testifying has anyone heard from him. I never talked to him Ukrainian official until the state department called me and asked me to show

2 (7m 53s):
it the latest news from former mayor of New York City Rudy Giuliani is that he has retained his own legal representation Giuliani had been saying over the past couple weeks. I don't need a lawyer. I'm not in any trouble and he has apparently we thought that

1 (8m 13s):
So rude, he's rethinking song Land is re collecting today. We will be releasing the deposition transcript of Ambassador Taylor. So people will have the opportunity to read about that that position as well. What's up with Bill Taylor what's in his transcript?

2 (8m 29s):
He basically really debunked Psalm wins version of events. And his testimony has been one of the most

1 (8m 37s):
important for Democrats who say it provides the clearest explanation for what President Trump and his allies were

2 (8m 43s):
Dean before Ukraine could receive nearly

1 (8m 45s):
400 million dollars of military

2 (8m 48s):
assistance by making clear how explicit the quid pro quo was what I thought was most interesting from Taylor's testimony was a bit of a plaintiff note. He was describing how the ukrainians reacted when they found out that this hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid that they were relying on for use in their military conflict with Russia. Was being held up Taylor says that they were just desperate. He said they thought there must be some rational reason for this being held up and maybe in Washington. They didn't understand how important this assistance was to their fight and to their Armed Forces Taylor painting a haunting portrait of foreign policy process that quite literally meant life and death to the ukrainians have been hijacked by what he describes as an irregular policy Channel run by Rudy Giuliani.

2 (9m 43s):
Went directly to Donald Trump. So it's a reminder that Trump was trying to play this game his political machinations and pressure the Ukrainian government to do this, but they're embroiled in a serious war and there are real consequences to what Trump was trying to do here.

1 (10m 1s):
So some of the details here are new some of the stuff. We already had a sense of but one thing that should be coming out of these transcripts is how Republicans have been questioning these Witnesses behind closed doors. Is right from what you've read. I know there's a lot of pages here. Have you seen Republicans? Honestly trying to get to the bottom of this controversy and figure out what happened.

2 (10m 23s):
I've seen them trying to get to the bottom of figuring out who the anonymous whistleblower is.

1 (10m 29s):
Oh have they figured it out. They seem to be

2 (10m 33s):
pretty confident in their assessment of who it is at this point and like to aim at yes and they bring up this person's name in the In scripts and say they asked various Witnesses. Have you ever talked to this person about what happened and Ukraine and asked to defend that they're generally characterized it as just trying to get some facts but in context it sure looks like a way to try to get this person's identity

1 (11m 3s):
out and we played a clip of Rand Paul at a rally with the president on Monday night in Lexington, Kentucky. And he says we also now know the name of the Whistleblower Does everyone now know who the Whistleblower

2 (11m 17s):
is the name has been written by some conservative media Outlets been tweeted out by one of the president of the United States children, but major media Outlets, like for instance Vox have been hesitant to repeat this whistleblowers supposed named questioning the news value of this. It seems more of an effort at retaliation. rather than a good faith effort to check their information because the person's information has already been completely confirmed that this point by all the documents and testimony from other witnesses that have come out the whistleblowers identity seems pretty irrelevant at this point, but Trump really wants a villain and he is trying to put a face on this whistleblower to have, you know, a new hate figure for a conservative media to fulminate about deep State conspiracies against the President Fox News apparently told its hosts that they are not permitted to repeat the alleged whistleblower name on air.

2 (12m 27s):
That means you Sean Hannity

1 (12m 29s):
just tool is the hearsay non whistleblower

2 (12m 33s):
whistleblower. But Republicans have also been talking about some other Witnesses. They would like to call although there are is some controversy about this. They have discussed calling Joe Biden or his son Hunter as Witnesses in the impeachment inquiry. They would likely not succeed at doing this in the house because Democrats effectively control who comes as a witness, but in the Senate they would be able to do something like that if they I want to there is an interesting Washington Post article saying that the party is split on this some of Trumps more fiery supporters are like let's do this Rand Paul said step up and subpoena Hunter Biden and also subpoena The Whistleblower Steve Bannon said on television that the Biden's have to be called Joe Biden is a hand grenade and

1 (13m 32s):
hundred Biden's the pin and when that pin gets pulled the shrapnel is going to blow back all Were the Democratic establishment Joe binds more like a lazy boy?

2 (13m 40s):
Yeah. Well, I mean there's been a lot of you know grenade analogies in this John Bolton called Rudy Giuliani a grenade who's going to blow every anybody else. But anyway some other Senate Republicans are a little more concerned about this they feel it would look hackish and political which yes and Lindsey Graham has an interesting role here because he's the chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee and so far already Donald Trump jr. Year and other Trump supporters have demanded. Why isn't Lindsey Graham hauling in Hunter Biden under a subpoena to testify right now and he's been resistant. He says, you know, it's this is the houses process right now and he's been defending Trump to be sure but he has not really been using his committee as a as a rebuttal to the house impeachment inquiry just

1 (14m 30s):
yet Lindsey Graham's initial taken this whole whistleblowing Scandal was that there will not be proof of a quid pro quo. Whoa, now that we have two different sets of evidence confirming quid pro quo about a meeting about military aid. Where does Lindsey Graham stand? And is he trying to maintain some sort of impartiality because of the fact that he will as we establish last week soon be a juror in this impeachment trial

2 (14m 56s):
Lindsey Graham does not seem to be trying particularly hard to maintain in partiality. He continues to defend Trump with various shifting justification. He said that he's not even going to read the transcripts that have been released this

1 (15m 11s):
week. The whole thing is a joke. The whole thing is being driven by partisans in the house. Adam Schiff is not looking for the truth. But there's one common theme Here the president of the Ukraine and the president the United States have both said there was no quid pro

2 (15m 26s):
quo. So rhetorically he still saying Trump did nothing wrong. I don't have any problem with this. He's you know shifted his reasons for saying is no Problem with this but you know he is not using his committee really to try and help Trump from a PR perspective with the impeachment inquiry and he also clarified he did make a high-profile invitation to Rudy Giuliani to come into the Senate Judiciary Committee and tell his side of the story under oath, but he gave an update on that this week and he said I don't think he's coming. He never got back to me. So

1 (16m 6s):
So it's Congress still totally polarized here as we head towards next week and these impeachment hearings become public televised events. Are we just going to see this classic Whiplash one side having an inquiry the other side column the whole thing is a sham. Yes. Can't wait. Thanks, Andrew. Andrew Prokop as you might have noticed is covering the impeachment inquiry for Vox, but he's also covering the Roger Stone trowel. Remember him Donald Trump's longtime advisor with the Nixon tattoo on his back the full back piece. It's really something Andrews been camping out at his trial in Washington DC all week.

1 (16m 51s):
You can follow along on his Twitter @ 8w Prokop. That's cop with a K. I'm Sean Rama's firm with a W. This is today. right