2 (0s):
Sometimes the world's problems can seem overwhelming climate change sexism Wars turns out there are people all over the world who are working to solve these problems. All I want to do is to find the solution how we can bring clean drinking water to my country. We are going to focus on what we can do today to make the world just a little bit better subscribe to course correction from Doha debates wherever you get your podcasts. Takes

1 (34s):
fine. That go. Thank you. Let me say tonight that this Victory here is the beginning of the end for Donald Trump. Ella Nelson tell the people where you are. Where are you reporting for Vox from right now? So I am in the field house of Southern New Hampshire University where Bernie Sanders just addressed a very loud crowd people are hugging each other.

1 (1m 25s):
I don't know if you can hear that but there's some chance and going on over here. It was kind of funny seeing Bernie like a man who doesn't doesn't smile that off and I feel like he was just beaming when he came out tonight and addressed people did any of his followers have anything interesting to say to you while you were there tonight? Because supporter is here, especially the ones that have been with him in 2016 feel like they have never been this close to him winning the nomination. Like I think that there's this palpable feeling that he could really do it this time, especially if he does well with a with black voters and with latino voters that he has a real path to the Democratic nomination and people here were really excited about that.

1 (2m 11s):
The other thing was I actually talked to somebody who was from Berlin Germany who came all the way out here. I mean he I think he works in the u.s. Sometimes but he volunteered was volunteering with this. Sanders campaign for the past few weeks along with he said some people from Norway and some people from Denmark sure they'll of socialism out there. Yeah. I love Democratic socialism out there and I mean, yeah, I mean he was sort of saying like he has certainly never been this excited about an American candidate. I mean, he was just saying it's really exciting to see a candidate fighting. So openly for a lot of the things that Europe already has basically a lot of the programs that they already have and how is turnout tonight.

1 (2m 55s):
People were saying that the turnout in Iowa didn't look great of Democrats are planning to beat Donald Trump in the general election. How was it tonight New Hampshire? It was actually better than twenty sixteen levels According to some of the initial reports that we saw. I'm not ready to make any big predictions yet on how this could impact general election turnout, but the other thing is, you know, it's also hard to judge because there was no competitive Republican primary here. So it's tough to tell how ins might also turn out in the general election. How about second and third how do other people do? Yeah, so I mean the big surprise tonight was with Amy Klobuchar.

1 (3m 36s):
I mean there had been some polling recently showing that she was doing all of a sudden a lot better than expected. But you have to remember she came out of Iowa in fifth place and I think that the big turning point for her in New Hampshire came from a combination of a lot of people that were still undecided and didn't Who they wanted to support maybe some more voters that were looking at more moderate candidates and she had a really good debate performance here last week and I think that you know, a lot of times debates don't necessarily change things in a race. But this in this case, it seemed like people started having these internal conversations and dialogues this week and even up until the final day or two.

1 (4m 21s):
So what does this mean for like the campaigns of Elizabeth Warren and Joe Biden are they kind of now? On life support. Yeah, I mean Biden Biden didn't even stick around in New Hampshire for his election party tonight. He went straight to South Carolina and like addressed his New Hampshire supporters from there. So he is really hoping that he can kind of bolster his support in his campaign among African-American voters in South Carolina and lets you know voters in Nevada, but I mean he has now lost Lost badly. I mean he came in fourth place in Iowa and he came in fifth place in New Hampshire.

1 (5m 2s):
That's not just a loss that's like a trouncing and so I just think that making a pitch especially making a pitch on electability to voters in Nevada and South Carolina is going to be really tough when you have the record that Biden has so far. And as far as Warren, I mean, this is a really tough state for her to lose. I mean she is a Massachusetts senator, so she's from right over the Border she Was a well-known entity in New Hampshire is not like she was starting with low name recognition like her campaign sent out a memo today about their path forward and talking about some of these more diverse States. She's going to be campaigning in Virginia pretty soon. But this is not good for her and her campaign was counting on some momentum and they just did not get that tonight at all, but it was an even tougher night for two of the candidates who dropped out right?

1 (5m 53s):
Yes, so Andrew Aang and Colorado Senator Michael Bennet both dropped out tonight and I think that both of them were kind of pinning a lot of their hopes on New Hampshire. I mean Andrew Yang had spent a lot of time campaigning here. And I mean I had heard from a lot of Voters that said that they really liked him and they really liked his message. I was kind of going into election night looking to see if he would get some sort of bump, but I just think that people are were so concerned with electability this year that I think a lot of folks didn't really want. Want to throw their vote to somebody who was unknown and who they didn't really think could beat Trump and the same thing with Michael Bennett. I mean he had staked his entire campaign on New Hampshire, but he just hadn't really been getting any traction for months.

1 (6m 40s):
He had been stuck at you know, somewhere between zero and one percent in the polls. And I mean, he was sort of like campaigning like the old New Hampshire way. He was doing all these House Parties that Lauren children talked about in Tuesday's episode and he just I wasn't getting anywhere he was getting no traction. So he had to call it tonight. Well, you know what L. I think before we go to the break. We're going to take a minute to remember our friends Senator Michael Bennet and Andrew Yang. Okay, sounds good. I know what you're thinking America. How am I still on this stage with them?

1 (7m 24s):
If you go to the factory in Michigan, it's not wall-to-wall immigrants. It's wall-to-wall robot arms and machines. We have to send the opposite message of this Administration. And as your president, I think I could send a very clear message where if you are considering immigrating to this country and I'm the president you would realize my son or daughter can become president of the United States, you know, I am the math guy and it is clear tonight from the numbers that we are not going to win this race. And so tonight I am announcing. I am suspending my campaign for president. When there's a group of kids in this country that don't get preschool through no fault of their own and another group does equal is not equal and we've got a group of K-12 schools that are good because families can spend a million bucks and you've got to Detroit public schools.

1 (8m 16s):
There is as segregated as they were equal is not equal. Tonight is not going to be our night. But let me say this to New Hampshire. You may see me once again.

2 (8m 36s):
After the break on today explained Matthew Iglesias makes the case for president Bernie Sanders. Hello very quickly. I would like to tell you about one of my favorite websites. It's called eater whenever I'm going to a new City and I want to find out what that City's best restaurants might be or their cheapest restaurants or their best pizza. I just go to eater I Google like, you know, best restaurants eater, Alabama. That's not a city. I know that I know that anyway eater also makes a TV show. It's called No passport required and the second season is out now.

2 (9m 19s):
It's on PBS. The show is hosted by a chef named Marcus Samuelsson. You might know him if you haven't been to a spot in Harlem called the Red Rooster no passport required celebrates immigrant communities across the United States and they're very important contributions to their City's food scenes, Los Angeles is huge Armenian Community the West African expatriates in Houston. We've got Italian Americans and Billy the Chinese American community in Vegas. We've got all sorts of portuguese-speaking cultures and Boston from from Brazil to Cape Verde to Portugal itself. Check it out right now. No passport required season 2 was on PBS weekly at 9/8 Central on Mondays or stream the entire season now at pbs.org / no pass required.

2 (10m 7s):
Hi, I'm Ariel Jim Ross. And I'm the host of a podcast called reset reset is a podcast about the impact of technology how humans have shaped it and how technology reflects our values and

1 (10m 19s):
biases reset is also a podcast about how

2 (10m 21s):
much good Tech has accomplished and how much better it could be if we listen to each other recently. We've covered stories about how artificial intelligence is being used to track coronavirus. We've also covered how to solve the problem of child Predators on gaming sites.

1 (10m 37s):
And

2 (10m 37s):
why our night sky might soon be filled with thousands of new satellites subscribe to reset for free on Apple podcasts Spotify or in your favorite podcast app later nerds. Matthew yglesias the politics team here at vaux Road up Arguments for each of the leading Democratic presidential candidates in this race. And you wrote about Bernie. What's the argument in favor of Vermont? Senator Bernard Sanders key to the argument is his electoral performance is a lot better than people realize he's been a more pragmatic legislator than a lot of people realize and I think in a way he could be a unifying candidate that brings Trump.

2 (11m 22s):
Condoms together and wins the election in November, which fundamentally is what mainstream Democrats want? Okay. Well, let's get into it. I mean, let's talk about his legislative history and his legislative agenda. I think one of the arguments against Bernie is that he actually hasn't accomplished that much in the Senate is that a fair argument his legislative agenda is very expansive. What I think is important to understand about Sanders though is that he's not somebody who has blown up. Up needed compromises, right? He said I'm his defects sometimes a bill is going to go through the Senate with 80 votes and he cast a no he says, you know, we should hold out for more when they needed every Democrat to vote for the Affordable Care Act when they needed every Democrat to vote for the Dodd-Frank bill for the Obama stimulus for anything like that.

2 (12m 9s):
He is there this stimulus package is not perfect, but it'll go a long way in Vermont throughout this country to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure move us to energy independence of sustainable energy protect Working Families hurt. This recession and most importantly create millions of good-paying jobs. He understands how the political system works and when you have to take half a loaf, he was known in the House of Representatives for getting a lot of bipartisan amendments passed some of the John McCain of Arizona and I have tried our best to come forward with an agreement. It's an agreement which I'm sure he is not

1 (12m 44s):
100% happy about and I can fully assure you I

2 (12m 47s):
am not 100% happy about I would have written a very very different. Bill, it's true. He's not the greatest legislative tighten in the history of the Senate. But he's also not this ignoramus that some of his supporters on Twitter. Sometimes seem like he's been a member of Congress for a long time. He knows how hard it is to get coalition's together for bills and he knows the importance of making compromises to get things done. So I don't think there's any reason to worry that as president. He would be unable to deal with the realities of legislating. And what do you think as president? He would make his you know First Act his first hundred days his first year what's burning gonna dive into I think healthcare.

2 (13m 34s):
He's very passionate about health care. He's passionate about his medicare-for-all Crusade the idea that the United States of America should join every other major country on Earth in guaranteeing Health Care to every man woman and child. This is not a radical idea. In fact poll after poll. All shows that a majority of the American people support that idea people want to know I think it's obvious that like, we're not going to pass a bill that's as expansive as that as expensive as Bernie's medicare-for-all. Yeah as expansive as his proposal. I think the real view from his team is that you need someone who is committed to fighting against the special interests that block this kind of action that anything you do right?

2 (14m 16s):
Whether it's the modest prescription drug pricing reform that house. It's a trying to do whether it's the bipartisan reform on surprise billing that is kicking around the Senate all of these things get blocked by the exact same Nexus of interest groups who lead the opposition to Medicare for all so you may as well to see what you can get out of an actual legislative process, but I think they think you will get the most by naming the bad guys and taking them on. So Bernie, of course wrote the damn Bell, we've heard it a million times at this point, but he isn't the only person supporting the damn bill. Anymore. So why Bernie over someone say like Elizabeth Warren who at least at? Some point has said that she's on board with the similar kind of plan.

2 (14m 58s):
So I agree. I mean, I actually think in terms of legislative outputs, you are not going to see a huge difference between Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren or even Bernie Sanders and P Budaj or Amy Klobuchar or Joe Biden because the way legislation works is it depends on Congress, right? If you really your primary consideration is what bills are going to pass like you should focus on the senate race in Maine Senate races. Arizona Senate race in Colorado. That's what's going to determine it not the choice of president. But the most far out there Bernie Sanders proposals are not going to become law no matter what happens. You're going to get the same kind of incremental change, however you want but if you want to sort of unified Democratic party taking the fight to Trump taking the fight to Republicans and selling the base on the need for compromise.

2 (15m 43s):
There's nobody better than Sanders to do burning never sells it that way. Do you think he believes that do you think he Believes that once he gets into office, he will be the people's champion and thus temper his Ambitions. I think that Bernie understands that it is hard to pass bills and that you know, there's not going to be like a parting of the clouds and all obstacles vanish, but I think he also rightly thinks that some of the people who preach pragmatism are in fact being influenced by money and campaign contributions and lobbying and their desires and then people look and they say why I have Kratz been talking about lowering prescription drug costs for 20 years, right?

2 (16m 25s):
How is it that that never gets done and it's not because nobody knows that you may have to trim your sails a little or make deals is that these very popular ideas mind up not happening because of the influence of money in politics, right? And it's not that a Sanders presidency eliminates all of those obstacles, but it means that you will have a president who is making Bargains literally because of vote counts not because of the Impact of money. So if there is a president Sanders and if he does need to compromise his agenda, what are those compromises actually look like think you know, I think some form of a public option of opening up of Medicare. He actually co-sponsored a public option Bill back in the 2016 cycle before sort of raising his aspirations and then things on prescription drug costs and that's an issue that he has been a champion of forever and that mainstream Democrats are increasingly comfortable with but they've never quite sealed the deal.

2 (17m 20s):
I'm cutting prescription drug costs. I think if Sanders is in the white house right now. This is a guy who's been fighting Pharma for decades and he is going to tell everyone like we are going to get this done at last and they really will hmm. It's kind of funny though because what you're talking about like a public option for example is essentially like the compromise position that bided at Klobuchar arguing for against Bernie's Medicare for all but this is the perversity of American politics right is Barack Obama runs and wins on a public option platform. Yeah, so you get the ACA with no public option. Well, I think if you run and win on a medicare-for-all platform, you might get a public option. If you're lucky right the president always gets less than what he ran on right because of the Dynamics in Congress.

2 (18m 3s):
I wonder you know, you talk about Bernie potentially rallying this Coalition of supporters from the left, but also the center you've got people like James Carville talking to our colleague Sean illing last week about how he's scared to death about Sanders ability to beat Trump to unify the left as well as Centrist. So tell me about the argument that Bernie could actually do that. How do you see it happening? So look, we can look at people's electoral track records, right? Some politicians do better than average in their home state and some do worse and it is a hundred percent true the politicians who do better than average are typically moderates. Joe manchin is one of the great over performers in the US Senate but Bernie Sanders is also an over performer you look at any year that That he was on the ballot and there was also a presidential election 1992 1996 2000.

2 (18m 57s):
It's happened over and over again and he runs a head of the democratic ticket, right? It's not that like every leftist does that that's not true at all. But Bernie Sanders does he is a very effective politician. He is an effective campaigner and you know, he does it a few different ways one is his personal reputation for integrity the other is this whole weird thing where he's not really a Democrat it Seems to help him get the votes of people who go for third parties that there was a lot of pero Sanders crossover votes. There was a lot of Stein Sanders crossover votes, but even Johnson Sanders crossover votes right to people who are suspicious of Party politics and business as usual Sanders seems like a free-thinking person a person of Integrity somebody who they can trust it's hard to scale that up from Vermont to Nationwide, but it should give people like Harville people who worry about electability some sense of reassurance that like, this is a guy Who has run and one and done very very well in those elections.

2 (19m 54s):
I mean Vermont is obviously not a swing state, but he's doing better than Barack Obama better than Hillary Clinton better than Bill Clinton in his home state. Hmm. And as we move in our heads to the hypothetical of Bernie actually running against President Trump. I wonder how does Bernie fare against someone who wants to paint him and his his friends AOC as just socialists and scare people into winning votes if it was me if you could go back and Time and have Bernie Sanders not call himself a socialist. I would definitely take that people who think that's a handicap. They are correct socialism is a label at polls very poorly, but he's been calling himself a socialist for a long time. He's been making it work and the other advantages Republicans have been calling every Democrat they run against a socialist for a long time and to an extent, you know, they're sort of the political party that cried wolf on this

1 (20m 44s):
over there. It seems as though far left socialist ideology is increasingly becoming mainstream democratic. Party

2 (20m 50s):
Doctrine. The socialism has never worked if they if they're so interested in it. Why do they go to Caracas or what? I wanted to go someplace where they've tried

1 (20m 59s):
it a vote for any Democrat in 2020. And I vote for any Democrat tomorrow in North Carolina is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction of the American dream

2 (21m 12s):
Trump got 46 percent of the vote back in 2016. And it's not just that he lost the popular vote, right? He was below 50% in Florida, Arizona, North Carolina. He's below 50. So the question is not so much. How do you appeal to like swing voters? Who are do I like Trump do I not like Trump, but it's how do you get all? Of the anti Trump voters together and I think Sanders is uniquely. Well positioned to bring those third-party voters and to get them to vote Democratic. I think that's the strongest electability argument

1 (21m 45s):
for him. I went walking that ribbon of highway. I soar above me that endless Sky

2 (21m 55s):
Way, never forget the Bernie Sanders recorded a folk album in the

1 (21m 59s):
80s.

2 (22m 2s):
I don't know if Matthew Iglesias has record any folk albums yet, but he hosts the weeds podcast at Fox our colleagues here have written Arguments for several of the other leading candidates in this race, including Vice President Biden, Senator Warren and mayor Pete. You can find them at vox.com. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is the four hundred and ninety-ninth episode of today explained this show was made for you and me.

1 (22m 28s):
I roamed and rambled. I followed my footsteps from the sparkling Sands of your diamond desert and all around me a voice was sounding this land was made for you and me.