2 (23s):
It's today explained. I'm Sean Rama's from this is episode 500. Thank you for listening for just shy of two years. We've been explaining the most important news stories in the world to you Monday to Friday, but not in the weekends. We've done lots of Stories on the environment on Tech on popular culture on Abroad and a good many about President Donald Trump. Ukraine explained is still pretty fresh. But remember that whole mother thing well just in time for episode five hundred, we got a little throwback from the president this week. He made a big stink about his old pal Roger Stone the man with the Nixon tattoo and the stink was so bad that people are now questioning the Integrity of the United States Department of Justice.

2 (1m 13s):
Before we get to the stink, let's talk about stump. And if you've heard all 500 shows the fact that Vox is senior political correspondent. Andrew Prokop is here to explain will come as no surprise. So back during the 2016 campaign Roger Stone who was an outside advisor to Trump and a longtime friend and advisor to Trump on politics made efforts to get in touch with Wikileaks to try and get ahold of Information about Hillary

1 (1m 45s):
Clinton, I actually have communicated with Assange. I believe the next tranche of his documents pertaining to the Clinton

2 (1m 54s):
foundation. So then in 2017 when Congressional investigators started asking around about this Stone gave them a false story and tried to encourage another witness to stick to that false story and and not to reveal the truth about these. Outreach

1 (2m 13s):
efforts we had a very Frank exchange. I answered all of the questions I made the case that the accusation that I knew about John podesta is email hack in advance was false.

2 (2m 29s):
Eventually. He came under scrutiny in special counsel. Robert Mueller's investigation. He was arrested and indicted in January 2019 for obstruction of Congress witnessed a Ring and making false

1 (2m 44s):
statements. I will plead not guilty to the charges. I will defeat them in court. I believe this is a politically motivated investigation.

2 (2m 55s):
He went on trial last November and he was convicted on all seven counts and now he is ready to be sentenced on February 20th. So long story short, he tried to obstruct the free election tried to cover that up and then tried to obstruct an investigation into his obstruction. Yeah, the full story of what exactly Roger Stone did in 2016 is actually still pretty mysterious whether his efforts to get in touch with Wikileaks were total failures or whether there was something more to it. But the gist is that he tried to cover up whatever he did do.

2 (3m 37s):
He got caught and then he got convicted of it. And now he is ready to be sentenced which brings us to this week. How does this story pick back up with his sentencing? So how this works is that the probation office first comes up with technical guidelines for the range of what an appropriate sentence would be what that probation office came up with was a recommended sentence. Of about seven to nine years in prison. So after that the prosecutors then have to submit their own sentencing memo to the judge in this case who will end up making the final call on this.

2 (4m 22s):
And in this case what they did was that they said that a sentence of the sort recommended by the probation office seven to nine years or so would indeed be appropriate given the gravity and seriousness of his crimes so they didn't Up with that number or make it up out of whole cloth, but they said that you know what it fits and how did President Trump take the news? So in a late night early morning flurry of tweets and retweets after this sentencing memo was filed Trump expressed utter outrage. He called this a horrible and very unfair situation. He said cannot allow this miscarriage of Justice exclamation point I

1 (5m 5s):
thought the recommendation It was ridiculous. I thought the whole prosecution was ridiculous and I look at others that haven't been prosecuted or I don't know where it is now, but when you see that, I thought it was an insult to our country and it shouldn't happen and we'll see what what goes on there. But that was

2 (5m 24s):
so then on Tuesday Morning word leaks out to a Fox news reporter that the justice department higher-ups. In fact agree with Trump on this and they are Going to override the prosecutors recommendation for Roger Stone sentence. So do the prosecutors restructure their sentence. What do they do next in this case? They quit we're

1 (5m 50s):
following some truly stunning breaking news still developing by the minute this hour to Federal prosecutors in the Roger Stone criminal case have resigned this afternoon as follows an astonishing decision by the justice department to pull back on its recommended sentence of 7 to 9 years. Prison time for Roger

2 (6m 8s):
Stone, there were four prosecutors on the stone team two of whom also served on special counsel Robert mulish team previously and all four of them announced on Tuesday that they were going to withdraw from the case. One of them quit the justice department entirely the other three will continue to work in the department on Arthur matters, but this was very unusual. Highly public apparent Act of protest against political interference from their bosses. What does that mean for the case? Well, what happened after they all quit is that a new prosecutor was put on and a new sentencing memo was filed saying that actually the memo that was just submitted one day earlier does not accurately reflect the Justice Department's position on what would be a reasonable.

2 (7m 7s):
All sentence in this matter and that a sentence of incarceration far less than that seven to nine year one would be reasonable under the circumstances. But in the end they defer to Judge Amy Berman Jackson who will actually sentence Stone on what should actually be done here as was always going to be the case. Coco cool, so at least everyone's going to respect the judge's decision here. So separately from all this President Trump went after this Judge Amy Berman Jackson on Twitter. Never mind saying is this the judge that put Paul manafort in solitary confinement something that not even mobster Al Capone had to endure and by this Paul manafort when he was indicted.

2 (7m 57s):
He violated the conditions of his bail by reaching out. To a potential witness so judge Jackson ordered that he be taken into custody. She did not decide to put him in solitary confinement. That was a decision made by prison officials and his solitary confinement conditions were actually pretty Swank. They're not as unpleasant as you might have expected. That's nice for Paul not a great look for the president. It's certainly unusual for the president to be packing a judge who is handling the sentencing of one of his Close Associates in a criminal case, but you know, the decision on this sentence is going to be made by judge Jackson in the end except.

2 (8m 46s):
Of course if President Trump decides to overrule her decision by pardoning Roger Stone or by commuting his sentence does the president's temper tantrum have any foundation in reality? What's the typical sentence for? Your average criminal who's been convicted of obstruction of justice witness tampering terrible tattoos and making false statements. So intuitively, I would say it does come off as a little high but generally people who have looked at this think that the way that the probation office calculated the sentencing guidelines were appropriate Stone quote engaged in a multi-year scheme in Having false statements in sworn testimony the concealment of important documentary evidence further lies in a written submission to Congress and a Relentless and elaborate campaign to silence that witness Randy credit go and so, you know, the government has a case that there was a lot to this.

2 (9m 51s):
This was not some one off brief thing, you know Stones team has also argued that he has no previous. This trouble with the law that he is in poor health that credit go didn't actually feel that threatened he claims and so there are Arguments for leniency to has anyone else waited on this publicly Democrats Republicans. So Democrats are very concerned about what's going on and Congressional Democrats, especially on the house Judiciary Committee have announced that Attorney General William bar. He'll testify before their committee later in March about what actually happened here.

2 (10m 37s):
And on other issues Republicans. Meanwhile are tending to say well. This doesn't really look good. But in the end it will be up to the judge. So why is it such a big deal as unfortunate as the sounds just the president potentially abusing the Department of Justice to keep his friends out of big trouble. It also doesn't sound completely foreign thinking back historically in this country. Does this feel different to you? I think what's going on here is part of a broader pattern of we can say curious incidents that have been unfolding in the Justice Department under attorney general Bill bar in the past few weeks and months that have really started to raise concerns that the justice department.

2 (11m 31s):
Is being very politicized and turned to serve the interests of Donald Trump rather than the impartial administration of justice. More than Drew in a minute on today explained. All of us here today explain try to make a funny new show whenever possible and appropriate because the news can be super stressful and you know anxiety-inducing and and depressing and hard and if you ever feel like life is getting a little too anxiety-inducing and stressful and hard the people at better help are standing by to offer a hand.

2 (12m 18s):
They got professionals who specialize in depression and anxiety their Is also ready to discuss grief and Trauma and anger and relationships. Whatever it is. You want to talk about people at better help have a counselor ready for you. You can connect privately with a better help counselor through texts through phone calls or video calls and get help on your own time at your own pace at a rate that you can actually afford. If you sign up right now you get 10% off your first month of better help with the code explained visit better help.com explain today the find out more that is better help.com. / explain.

2 (13m 4s):
Hi, I'm Ariel Jim Ross. And I'm the host of a podcast called reset reset is a

1 (13m 9s):
podcast about the impact of

2 (13m 11s):
technology how humans have shaped it and how technology reflects our values and biases reset is also a podcast about how much good Tech has accomplished and how much better it could be if we listen to each other recently. We've covered stories about how artificial intelligence is being used to track. Coronavirus we've also covered how to solve the problem of child Predators on gaming sites

1 (13m 33s):
and why our night sky

2 (13m 35s):
might soon be filled with thousands of new satellites subscribe to reset for free on Apple podcasts Spotify or in your favorite podcast app later nerds.

1 (13m 50s):
today explained

2 (13m 54s):
Andrew tell me a little bit more about how the president of the United States is turning the United States Department of Justice into his own personal Law Firm. So amidst all the controversy about the stone sentencing there was a report from NBC News headlined bar. Meaning Attorney General William bar takes

1 (14m 13s):
control of legal matters of interest to Trump including Stone

2 (14m 18s):
sentencing and the reporters here. Carol Lee can Delaney and Peter Alexander make Taste that this is really something broader that is going on that from what they've heard from their sources. This is a concerted effort from bar to centralized decision-making and authority over political cases in advance of the 2020 elections. Whoo, how exactly is he doing that? So there are a couple of big examples that especially after this Roger Stone Fiasco definitely look a whole lot more like a pattern and one of them involves another close Trump Ally who is due to be sentenced for charges stemming from the Mueller investigation namely Michael Flynn, the former National Security adviser.

2 (15m 7s):
I have called on Hillary Clinton to drop out of the race because she she put our nation's security and extremely high risk with their careless use of a private email server. I remember him lock her up lock her up. Flynn pleaded guilty back in December 2017 to lying to the FBI about his contact with the Russian Ambassador. And he agreed to cooperate with Mueller's

1 (15m 39s):
teen no handcuffs for Michael Flynn. He surrendered and walked into the federal courthouse in Washington to plead guilty to a single charge lying to the

2 (15m 48s):
FBI but along the way things went, awry. He was actually scheduled to be sentenced initially back in December 2018 prosecutors were totally cool with his cooperation. Then prosecutors wrote that a sentence that does not impose a term of incarceration would be appropriate then things took a turn at the sentencing hearing

1 (16m 15s):
itself the judge Emmet Sullivan. He shocked the courtroom when he opened this hearing by saying he could not hide his disdain for what Flynn had done. He even went so far as to ask. prosecutors why they weren't charging Flynn with treason Andre that's a crime punishable by death now the judge later apologized for that particular

2 (16m 32s):
question but he did give Flynn a last-minute out he gave him the opportunity to delay his sentencing to get further credit for cooperation with the government some of which wasn't yet complete Flynn jumped at the Chance and asked for the sentencing to be delayed but then instead of actually doing that further cooperation Flynn decided to dump his lawyers he hired a hard-charging conservative Sydney Powell who has been basically laying the groundwork to argue that Flynn was set up and eventually he did argue that he wanted to withdraw his guilty plea that he wasn't even really guilty that the government set him up that the fix was in it just sounds like the kinds of actions you would only take if you knew you had sort Of support from the higher-ups, you know, it certainly was a bold strategy, but we didn't see much blatant interference from the justice department in a way that was designed to help Flynn until recently.

2 (17m 40s):
So a very similar thing happened to Flynn that happened to Roger Stone prosecutors this January were getting ready for Flynn's new attempt at sentencing. And they decided to let the judge know that they had changed their position in light of Flynn's Behavior over the past year. They said given the serious nature of the defendant's offense his apparent failure to accept responsibility his failure to complete his cooperation and the need to promote respect for the law and adequately deter criminal conduct. They wrote that they recommend a sentence of 0 to 6 months of incarceration for But then mysteriously about three weeks later as both the prosecutors and the defense continued to send filings back and forth in this case the government curiously shifted its position now prosecutors wrote on January 29th, all of a sudden they agreed with the defendant that a sentence of probation is a reasonable sentence and this was a shift.

2 (18m 50s):
They said that they recommended Flynn be incarcerated and now they are saying that actually probation is reasonable and according to NBC News. This change came about because senior officials at the justice department intervened. So exactly the same thing that's happening with Roger Stone right now. Yes in a less dramatic way that didn't lead to a bunch of prosecutors quitting but it looks like these are closely related incidents and the story gets more interesting as we learn what To the person who was in charge of overseeing Flynn sentencing the US attorney for Washington DC Jesse Lou is Jesse a dude a lady somewhere in between lady what happened to her.

2 (19m 37s):
So the US attorney for the District of Columbia is a pretty important job. It overseas a lot of these highly charged political cases involving government officials and the federal government and Lou she is clearly a conservative, but she had a they decent reputation for Independence in the post. She certainly didn't seem to be going easy on any of the Trump Associates who were prosecuted in her District. She took over overseeing the Roger Stone trials not as a direct prosecutor, but you know as the boss eventually of those prosecutors and she had been in this job for a couple years at this point and early this January President Trump nominated her to fill A post at the treasury Department.

2 (20m 26s):
And at first this seemed to be ordinary enough, like people move to different posts in the administration. That is normal. But then after this dust-up over Michael Flynn sentencing Lou was unexpectedly removed from her job before being confirmed to her new Treasury Department position and who she was replaced with was even more interesting Timothy Shea who was a counselor to build bar at the justice department and one of bars closest advisors, according to the Associated Press, huh? So the final Capper on what happened with Jesse Lou Is that it was reported by axios on Tuesday evening that in fact Trump was going to withdraw her nomination to that Treasury Department post and then on Wednesday night Jesse Lou officially submitted her resignation from the federal government.

2 (21m 23s):
Now that that confirmation is no longer going to come it's not clear whether this was an effort to retaliate against the person who oversaw Roger Stones prosecution. Whether it was simply an effort to avoid her having to testify to a senate committee, which was scheduled to happen this week, but it certainly makes her ahead of schedule replacement look even more questionable. So this all sounds dodgy and like William bars making sure the Department of Justice aligns with President Trump's interests or perhaps even protects him. But but has there been anything more directly aligned with the president's re-election? Yes bar has not stopped there.

2 (22m 5s):
Has issued new rules in the justice department for any new investigation to be opened about a presidential candidate a presidential campaign presidential campaign staffers or even potentially illegal foreign contributions to presidential campaigns. Any of those investigations would need Bill bars personal approval to be open and to know the backstory of that, you know, both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton were plagued. Goodbye investigations in the 2016 campaign and what Bill bar seems to be doing is ensuring that in 2020. There will be no surprises from pesky independent-minded investigators who are turning rocks over or looking into things if it touches a presidential campaign Bill bar is going to have to sign off on it.

2 (22m 59s):
Okay. So just to recap this isn't just about getting Stone a lighter sentence. It's also Getting Flynn a lighter sentence. It's also about punishing people who administer Justice to friends of the president and it's also potentially about preventing investigations into a President Who famously has a proclivity for casual treason. How bad is this for the justice department? How does this compare to Kennedy appointing? His brother is AG or Nixon and the Saturday night Massacre where he illegally got a special prosecutor fired. I think since Kennedy and starting especially after Richard Nixon and Watergate Norms about the independence of the justice department and how it should make decisions on political prosecutions free of political interference started to become strong and we're seeing those Norms deteriorate that said I do think there are some other examples That go against The Narrative of bar and Trump completely perverting the justice department to serve their ends for one.

2 (24m 12s):
We should remember that Rudy giuliani's to close allies left harness and Igor Freeman got arrested last October indicted by prosecutors from the southern district of New York us attorney's office, and there is an investigation going on in paralleling Giuliani as well. Reportedly, you know one Would think that a justice department solely looking at for Trump swims would not be investigating his lawyer for various crimes, but having said that there has been other reporting that justice department leaders in Washington later ended up getting involved in that New York investigation into Giuliani and the current state of it remains unclear.

2 (24m 57s):
We just don't know what's going on. So the big question is in all of these is the justice department now going to Act like President Trump's political attack machine or is it going to respect the Judgment of legal experts and prosecutors and way cases carefully before bringing charges and the signs lately have not been encouraging and the recourse here basically non-existence. I mean Congressional hearing isn't going to change anything, right? Probably not. I mean it would certainly be good to have Bill bar answer questions under oath about a lot of the stuff and about how the justice department is even functioning these days but you know, it's a bit of a red herring if the question is whether Bill bar is doing this at Trump's behest, explicitly or whether he's just doing it because oh he just so happens to have the same opinions As Trump on all these issues or he's preemptively trying to anticipate what Trump would want.

2 (25m 58s):
The point is that they have a mind build and that Bar is doing what Trump wants it to do Trump even sent a tweet saying congratulations to attorney general Bill bar for taking charge of a case. That's the Roger Stone case that was totally out of control and perhaps should not have even been brought now after that on Thursday attorney general bar gave an interview in which he criticized Trump a bit for sending those tweets. He said he thinks it's time for Trump to stop tweeting about justice department Criminal. Aces and that the tweets make it impossible for me to do my job.

2 (26m 38s):
You think that'll be the game changer here Will President Trump finally, but out of matters involving the justice department. I think it's usually a Bad Bet to bet that Trump will change or improve his behavior on stuff like this. But if you look at what bar says he seems to be objecting more to the public nature of Trump's comments then to their actual substance and look at what happened here. Bar did with Trump wanted and he got congratulations in a tweet. You know, that's just how our government works now. Wait, wait, wait, we we cut the cut the music a theme.

2 (27m 20s):
That's just how the government works now. I mean, yes Pro cops clearly, right and that's distressing and will surely revisit this in the coming weeks and months, but we can't end episode 500 like that. Can we can we know we can't I think we should I think we should go out with a love song know when we come out.

1 (27m 43s):
Well, you know we Gonna be we're gonna be the show that makes your afternoon when you go home. Yeah, you know, you're gonna be you're gonna be so glad you don't sound like Kuhn when you're baffled. Well, we know we're gonna be we're gonna be able to explain the news to you and when we speak farces, well, we know we're gonna be we're gonna be the show you re can you review and we want make 500 show. Shows and when make 500 more.