1 (8s):
It's the middle of March, which means it's time for madness

2 (12s):
Boss. Who's been beaten across cowl troops yesterday. Start in Brooklyn, ACC tourney Bartek down to, to Clemson Derrius Maddix for three and

3 (20s):
Low when.

1 (22s):
Okay. But this year we'll be madder than ever because of sports betting,

5 (27s):
Gonna make every game. Interesting. Step one, open the bedroom, GM Sportsbook, step two, put some skin in the game and step three, Showtime,

1 (39s):
More and more of the country is legally betting on sports as more and more states. Legalize sports betting last year broke all previous betting records, more than 50 billion wagered. And then something like 30 million Americans spent something like $8 billion on the super bowl alone. Last month,

5 (1m 3s):
It's

1 (1m 3s):
Peak legalized gambling. And on the show today, we're going to ask a pro and a novice, how we got here and what it's costing us. I'm Sean Ramez from it's today. Explain Okay. Sports betting is exploding. We want to figure out why and what it means for us. We're going to start with a,

4 (1m 37s):
My name is Jack Andrews. I'm with unabated.com.

1 (1m 40s):
Jack's gambling buddies know him as captain Jack, captain

7 (1m 44s):
Jack Sparrow.

1 (1m 45s):
Not that one.

4 (1m 46s):
I was a fictitious captain. It was the Billy Joel song. Captain Jack is where I took that from

1 (1m 57s):
So you used to play cards and now where's most of your gambling happened.

4 (2m 0s):
Now it's mostly sports betting. I've made a living at sports betting for the past 10 years or so. I've been a professional gambler for about 20 years. It's pretty much a 24 7 job. And right now it's a bit of a gold rush,

3 (2m 15s):
$250 bonus, $1,000 free bet, $3,000 deposit match. As more sports books go live in more markets, they're competing for your money, the best way to get it, to give you some of theirs.

4 (2m 29s):
Just the proliferation of legalized sports books in the U S has created a ton of opportunity for professional gamblers.

3 (2m 36s):
Most player bonuses are one times play through, which means you only have to bet that bonus money wants to withdraw it. And that opens a loophole for anyone with a little scratch who wants to exploit the over competitiveness of a new marketplace.

4 (2m 49s):
And as a result, they're willing to operate at a negative in order to gain the market share. So that's why I'm able to take advantage of a lot of that and kind of boost my, my bank role as we move into the next phase of sports betting.

1 (3m 10s):
If captain Jack from 20 years ago, went to sleep 20 years ago and woke up today in 2022, March madness, United States, and like pulled up, you know, a gambling app or something, what would he think of what sports betting in the United States has become?

4 (3m 30s):
I think my first reaction would be, this is too good to be true. There's no way this is now legal in the U S there's no way they're giving money away to people. I, this, this can't be, there's gotta be a catch, but it actually is true. And the proliferation of bedding is something that was unheard of 20 years ago, not just in the sense of the scope of the states that allow sports betting.

9 (3m 54s):
This is not just a friendly office pool. This is commercial online sports gambling now legal in 31 states and expected to bring in more than $39 billion annually within 10 years.

4 (4m 5s):
That's just amazing. 20 years ago, you could bet on the side of a game who was going to win, or you could bet on the total, you couldn't bet on how many rebounds Anthony Davis would have. You couldn't bet on how many points LeBron was going to score in a game. And now it's very acceptable to bet on the most minute parts of a game right down to what the outcome of the next drive will be

1 (4m 30s):
Not to mention, like who's going to sing the national Anthem.

4 (4m 38s):
You can bet on the length of the national lands and which is kind of unheard of, right, because isn't the national Anthem, just the same length all the time. It's the same song, But certain people sing it differently. And yes, betting on the length of the national Anthem has become very popular.

1 (5m 10s):
I want to understand how this has happened, how we basically went from betting on who's gonna win the game to betting on how long the national Anthem is going to be. Where does that story begin?

4 (5m 21s):
Sean? I think it really comes down to the casinos and sports books that operate sports betting said, okay, this is great for you to bet on the outcome of a match. It's a three hour match. We want to have you betting on more things. In the mid eighties, there was a player for the Chicago bears, a defensive tackle named William the refrigerator Perry.

10 (5m 44s):
How can you forget number 72 of the refrigerator? When you talk about a guy who's an inspiration, all us big guys, that guy has to be in this show.

4 (5m 53s):
And occasionally the bears would put him in at full back and could plow through the line

11 (5m 59s):
<em></em> 0.8,

4 (6m 4s):
The bears make it to the super bowl and a casino in Las Vegas put up a prop bet of will the refrigerator Perry score a touchdown in the game. And it became widely popular because everybody was like, yeah, of course, he's going to score it. You know, they're going to, it's going to happen. And it did happen

11 (6m 22s):
Another super bowl record that first refrigerator to score

10 (6m 29s):
Running back.

4 (6m 31s):
And some people got paid out at 40 to one because that's what the odds opened at. And it became very popular. And that was when super bowl props were born.

1 (6m 42s):
Was it legal at the time to open up, betting on something like that?

4 (6m 46s):
Yes. At the time Nevada had legalized sports betting. They still do, and they could make a line on that happening in the game. As long as the betting event would be decided within the frame of the game, they could have a betting line on it. And that exploded from there on out. Now, the Superbowl there's tens of thousands of prop bets offered on the game. Everything from Willa, a defensive tackle or an offensive tackle score touchdown to the color of the Gatorade, that'll be poured on the winning coach.

12 (7m 17s):
That's taken Gatorade shower to a different level there,

1 (7m 21s):
But now one of the big differences I guess, is that this isn't just a thing that happens in Nevada, right? It's happening everywhere.

4 (7m 28s):
Right? So now we have over 30 states that have legalized betting. And in a lot of them, you can make your bets online or through your phone or from the comfort of your home. And

1 (7m 39s):
What does that system look like?

4 (7m 40s):
The market for legalized sports betting in the U S is beginning to explode. In the past year, we had $52 billion wagered on sports in the U S and it's expected that that number is going to continue to grow in 2022. We now have New York state

13 (7m 56s):
Wagers totaled nearly $2 billion during the first month of legal mobile sports betting in New York. And that doesn't include figures from the super bowl.

4 (8m 5s):
And we've got other states, California, Texas, and Florida. And if they come online, Sean, it's really going to explode in terms of the amount that's being wagered on these games.

1 (8m 17s):
And this has sort of changed who is gambling, who was betting and how much they're spending, right.

4 (8m 23s):
It used to be the gambling was done on sports, but it wasn't done out in the open. It was either you go through a, a local bookie or maybe you were just sitting at the bar and you bet your friend on who's going to win this match. But people have always wanted to put their money where their mouth is when it comes to sports. And as a result, people were always betting on sports, but it wasn't until 2018 that the law that basically prohibited sports betting in the U S except in certain states was overturned. The

14 (8m 53s):
Supreme court voted to give states permission to allow legal betting on sports striking down in 1992 law, which banned sports gambling in most states.

4 (9m 2s):
And that's where we've come today. Four years later, more than half of the country has access to sports betting, or they're within a short driving distance to a state where they can place a bet. And to put that in perspective, I live in a state New Jersey where we have roughly 9 million people. Now, sports betting is largely a demographic of males between the ages of 21 and 65. And in New Jersey, that that would have constituted about one third of the population while they're wagering a billion dollars a month. So 9 million people, one third of that population, they still weighed you're over a billion dollars a month. That's quite impressive.

1 (9m 41s):
And do we have any data on how much they win or lose?

4 (9m 45s):
So sports betting is largely a low margin industry, huh? Now in a lot of cases, what the sports books are needing to do is to find ways to increase that margin so that the deck is stacked a little bit further against the sports better. And to do that, they've been introducing gimmicky plays where the sports better has, has the worst of it. The popular one these days is the same game. Partly first of all, a parlay bet is when you have multiple events that you tie together in one wager, and as one event wins, both the wager and the winnings get rolled over.

4 (10m 25s):
So the outcome is kind of a multiple payout, but all of these events have to win on you in order for you to win the wager. If, if just one out of say, three events loses you lose the entire stake, same game parlay is when you can wager on things that'll happen within the same game. Now, this appeals to a lot of betters because they say, well, look, I think the Lakers are gonna win this game. However, I know that for the Lakers to win, LeBron has to have a good game,

11 (10m 53s):
James, what's up a three.

4 (10m 57s):
So I'm going to wager the Lakers to win and LeBron to score more than 25 points,

11 (11m 1s):
James download .

4 (11m 6s):
And I also believe that when the Lakers do well is because Anthony Davis plays well. So I'm going to Wade, your Anthony Davis to have over 10 rebounds. So now I have three wagers there. I have the Lakers, I had a foot LeBron over 25 points. I have Anthony Davis over 10 rebounds, and I can combine them into one wager that has a payout that's extremely larger than would be if I would have bet them all separately. And they're all kind of correlated. The problem with that is the Sportsbook understands the correlation between those events and they price it properly so that the player does not have an edge. So the better feels like they're getting the best of it. But in reality, the sports book is getting the best of it.

1 (11m 50s):
You know, hearing you talk about like Jack 20 years ago, versus Jack. Now it kind of reminds me of what's going on in this country around marijuana, where 20 years ago, you couldn't imagine flying with weed. And now, you know, you can fly from a state where weed's legal to a state where weed's legal and bring a bunch of joints that you bought in a store. And no one even cares. It's kind of this unimaginable fantasy land. When you think about what policies were 20 years ago in this country. And of course, a lot of people are really happy about it. And a lot of people are really angry about it. Is it similar on the gambling side of things?

1 (12m 32s):
Are people really stoked about this and also terrified of what this might do to us?

4 (12m 37s):
Absolutely. The legalization of sports betting and the proliferation of gambling in the U S is follows a lot of the same path of the legalization of marijuana. It's definitely passing faster in progressive states. It's something that people have been doing all along. Why not bring it into the light and allow it to be regulated and allow it to be taxed and allow it to be a certain guard rails put in place to make sure that it's being done properly. Here's the problem is gambling is a negative expectation event for the gambler. In other words, in the long run, you will likely lose. And a lot of these operators sell the idea of winning, you know, you watch commercials and it's largely, you know, you can turn a little money into a lot of money.

4 (13m 24s):
They

15 (13m 24s):
Say fortune is fickle

16 (13m 29s):
Settle in for three.

15 (13m 31s):
So let's make it interesting. I put a million bucks and up to five DraftKings Sportsbook accounts, lay it all on tonight's day or kiss it goodbye.

17 (13m 40s):
Hello, 4g.

4 (13m 42s):
And for the most part, that's true in theory, but in practicality, it's almost impossible. So there's many people that get duped into thinking that gambling is a way to make easy money. It's not, it's, it's a nice recreational activity for those which have discretionary income to spend on it, but it shouldn't be viewed as an income source unless you're willing to put in the time and effort to become a professional gambler. And as a professional gambler, I would strongly advise you that it's much easier to make a lot more money and a lot of different other ways that professional gambling.

1 (14m 17s):
So as a professional gambler, you would not recommend people become a professional gamer.

4 (14m 21s):
It's a certain lifestyle and personality that you need to have in order to succeed. And I don't think many people do it's a lot harder than it looks

Shopify (14m 43s):
Support for the show. And he comes from Shopify and you're like, well, that thing with Joe Rogan, no, that's Spotify. This is Shopify. If you're someone who sells things online, apparently you need it. The commerce platform that makes it easy to sell the things you are selling. And that is why Shopify is the go-to choice for millions of different businesses. According to Shopify, Shopify is all in one commerce platform includes everything you need to start, run and grow your business. Whether you're selling organic dog treats formal clothing for collectible dolls for hair pieces. According to Shopify, really want to go to the formal clothing for collectible dolls website, please@megotoshopify.com slash explained all lower case people, all lower case, none of the uppercase stuff for a free 14 day trial and get full access to Shopify as entire suite of features grow your business with Shopify today, go to shopify.com/explained. Now that's shopify.com/explained

New Relic (15m 52s):
Support for the shutter. Lead comes from new Relic. If you're like, what's that? Well, it's something for the software engineers out there. Software engineers can't have things go wrong with the software. And new Relic helps by combining 16 different monitoring products that you'd normally buy separately. So engineering teams can see across their entire software stack in one place. When I think stack, I think pancakes, but I don't think that's what this is. You can pinpoint issues down to the line of code with new Relic, and that's why the dev and ops teams at door dash kit hub, epic games, and literally thousands of other companies, according to new Relic, use new Relic to debug and improve their software, get access to the whole new Relic platform and a hundred gigs of data free forever, no credit card required@newrelicdotcomslashexplainsignupatnewrelic.com slash explained that's N E w R E L I c.com/explained, Okay, we just spoke to captain Jack.

1 (17m 5s):
He's a professional sports better, but we wanted to find out what this world is like to a novice. So he reached out to Vox is Emily Stewart who writes about the economy, but also recently dove into this world of sports betting. Emily, what did you find when you gave it a try?

18 (17m 20s):
So I think kind of the big takeaway for me is that as much as this is fun, it's also kind of bad, right? Like it's not great that I'm sitting at home on a Thursday night betting on sports games that I have no plans to watch. And the way I kind of think about it is that this is a sort of, that's how they get you frame. And I got, got a little bit,

1 (17m 40s):
Okay, well, let's hear a little bit about how you got guts. So where does this begin for you?

18 (17m 44s):
Well, I live in New York where sports betting became legal in January and the ads are truly everywhere. I see more sports betting ads than I do for any other thing. And it got exciting. And so I decided to give it a try for via was pretty confusing. Like I didn't entirely understand what I was doing most of the time, but it is pretty fun. And for a while I thought I was really good at it. I got into a thing where at night I would place like two tiny bets. Then the morning I'd wake up and see if I won. It is really easy to see how you can get sucked in.

11 (18m 20s):
But fuck's a better way to say that after I had century the Milwaukee bucks, big champions once again.

18 (18m 29s):
So basically on like a Thursday night in January, I bet that the Milwaukee bucks would win and that Yannis star player for them would get a triple double. I still don't know what a triple double is.

1 (18m 43s):
Is it, is it a double, double digits points, rebounds and assists? Is that right?

18 (18m 49s):
Sure. No idea, but I want anyway and I turned $11 into $130 basically at random.

1 (18m 57s):
Yay. What was the feeling you had? Was it the dopamine? Did you feel the release?

18 (19m 3s):
It was exciting. I did feel good about it. Thought I was a sports gambling genius for about a week, but also just realize how random things weren't.

1 (19m 12s):
So what did you do with your winnings? Did you cash out and buy some eyeballs?

18 (19m 15s):
I cashed out and I think I had a vacation coming up. And so I pretended like that was my vacation money,

1 (19m 20s):
But wait, listener, this wasn't the last bet Emily placed,

18 (19m 25s):
I won a few things and then I started to lose and, you know, there's a reason that they say the house always wins. And there's a reason all these companies are spending all of this money to get customers, to get new people into the pipeline because it's a moneymaker for them, right? Like they don't want me to win overall.

1 (19m 41s):
How much money are these companies spending on drawing people like you who have no real interest in sports or sports betting into this world? Do we know?

18 (19m 49s):
I mean, they're really spending billions of dollars with a B companies like FanDuel draft, Kings Caesars, and MGM are putting a ton of money in to establish themselves as leaders in this space. There's sort of this understanding that not everybody's going to be the winner here. And so they're really spending money on advertising on bonusing to try and acquire customers and kind of engage in this sort of land grab situation. They're also offering a lot of bonuses. Caesar's at one point was offering to match up to $3,000, which is a lot of money.

1 (20m 22s):
So like if I place a $3,000 bet, they'll give me a free, extra 3000 exactly. And make it a $6,000 bet. Well, how can it be so worth it to a company like Caesars to just be giving away thousands of dollars for free. When does that math start to work out in their favor?

18 (20m 38s):
Well, for Caesar's specifically, you know, they own a bunch of casinos. And so when I talked to them, they said, you know, this, isn't just about getting people to bet on sports. It's about getting people into our pipeline, getting their email, address their information, getting them to become a member of whatever their club is. And so this is a way to get people into that. And first Caesars as well, that runs casinos. You know, their demographic tends to be older. It can skew a little bit more females, especially their database. And so this gives them a way to get young men into the pipeline and get them into the system. And so, you know, maybe I start sports betting through Caesars, and then they're like, Hey, next time you're in Las Vegas, you know, come to my casino Or on the flip side is maybe I'm already in the Caesar's database because I do like their casino.

18 (21m 32s):
And they can say, Hey, have you tried sports betting? And so it's a way for them to sell different products and services.

1 (21m 37s):
No I've personally experienced with assembly. I recently went to a wedding in Las Vegas And afterwards I kept getting emails from MGM. Cause I stayed at an MGM hotel, but the emails weren't like come stay at an MGM hotel. These emails, which I never signed up for were all about gambling. And every time I hit unsubscribe and it did not work,

18 (22m 2s):
They're trying to get your

1 (22m 3s):
Hooks. I had to like write back pretty firmly. And then I think it may be worked, but I'm still that convinced. They love sending me emails about gambling.

18 (22m 10s):
Well, see, that's the thing. That's how they get ya. I

1 (22m 13s):
Mean, it sounds like if these ads are all over New York city on the subways at the buses, in your, in your social media feeds, it's probably good business for the state of New York. Like there's a lot of money to be made.

18 (22m 24s):
They think it will be it. I think plenty of states think it will be. So in New York specifically, there is a 51% tax on sports betting revenue,

1 (22m 31s):
51. Yes.

18 (22m 33s):
It's a lot.

1 (22m 33s):
Holy smokes.

18 (22m 35s):
But if you think about it, people are betting a lot. So New York specifically surpassed $1 billion in total bets in just over two weeks of sports gambling being legal here. Wow. And it hit 2 billion over the first 30 days. And the governor said that generated about $70 million in tax revenue. So

1 (22m 54s):
It's

18 (22m 54s):
Money for the state.

1 (22m 55s):
It actually sounds like a positive thing. Maybe they can fix their trains,

20 (22m 59s):
Ladies and gentlemen because of construction. This is the last stop

18 (23m 3s):
Amy. And is it positive? I don't know. New York says that the money's going to go towards schools and towards sports programs, but some of that money is also going to go towards gambling addiction treatment.

1 (23m 18s):
Yes. It's the circle of life.

18 (23m 24s):
Right. You know, I mean, I think you have probably seen in some of the ads or heard in the ads, you know, they say, Hey, come bet on this game tonight. Or why don't you do a parlay or whatever. And then pretty immediately below they say, Hey, do you have a gambling addiction? Here's a hotline. So there is kind of a hazard or very explicit, I guess, acknowledgement in all of this, that there's a dark side to this and that addiction is a problem.

1 (23m 51s):
I mean, so you might know if you've ever watched any movie about gambling.

21 (23m 56s):
Let's go again. Let's go again. Oh, come on, give me a, just give me a thought. Tell her I'm good for a thousand dollars. It's a bad beach. Jerry throwing the town, man.

1 (24m 10s):
Has there been a correlation between, you know, all of these states, legalizing gambling and gambling addiction? Do we know?

18 (24m 19s):
I mean, it is a little bit early to tell because this has become this sort of all started to be legal in 2018 and after, but we're already seeing stories.

22 (24m 30s):
I'd bet. Over $400,000 in the past six years with my phone, I could play twenty four seven. I could bet on Swedish gospel. I was betting at three in the morning. I'm rushing. Ping-pong

18 (24m 44s):
The national council on problem. Gambling says that it's call centers have never been busier. We know that gambling is addictive and sports gambling specifically is fun and also addictive and people are getting into the pipeline very early. And we've also seen that sports books are targeting younger betters. Maybe people who aren't even allowed to legally, but yet because they get them signing up for a fantasy sports account. And so then once they hit 18 or 21, whatever the legal age is for gambling, then they can start betting on sports and other things like we, we know that there's this isn't all just fun and games,

1 (25m 22s):
But we also know that people bet on sports, whether it's legal or it isn't. Right,

18 (25m 27s):
Right. That's, that's the thing. And that's a lot of people that I talked to for this story that I just worked on. That's what most of them said, like, listen, at the very least we can see what's going on. These, these sports books and companies say that they're supposed to be tracking activity. They know when somebody is probably betting too much. And this is also kind of good, I guess like, if you care about the integrity of sporting events and you are worried about players kind of maybe hedging points or, or making changes to their play in order to like, you know, sway a game one way or the other, because of betting, it also makes that easier to pick up if this is all kind of happening above board at the same time, again, like sure.

18 (26m 14s):
Could I have a legally bet on sports in November? Fine. But it was a lot harder for me to do than it is right now, having it on my cell phone.

1 (26m 23s):
It's still on your cell phone. Emily.

18 (26m 25s):
I didn't delete the app. Maybe I'll go back.

1 (26m 28s):
Be careful. Emily Stewart. You can read part one of her dalliance with sports betting@box.com. Not sure if there'll be a part two yet earlier you heard from captain Jack Andrews, captain Jack. We'll get you by tonight. Just a little push and you'll be smiling. Our show today was produced by Hottie Milwaukee D fact checked by Laura Bullard engineered by a female Shapiro and edited by me. That wedding in Las Vegas, I went to, it was mine today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network. The rest of the team includes Noel king, Matthew Collette, Alima Shaw, Victoria Chamberlain will read and miles Bryan.

1 (27m 12s):
Our supervising producer is Amina. Alsada. Our VP of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson. We use music from Breakmaster cylinder and no I'm Hassenfeld. And just this once Billy Joel

Wealthfront (28m 33s):
It's a new year. So it started off on the right foot. Build a solid financial future for yourself. By checking out wealthfront.com. Wealthfront was designed by financial experts to help you start investing with ease and clarity. If you're just getting started with investing, you can rely on their classic portfolio, but if you're already good at the whole investing thing, you can just use wealth front to simply rebalance your existing portfolio. Wealth front is here to get you invested in what interests you and make informed credible decisions to start building your wealth today and get your first $5,000 managed for free for life. Go to wealth, front.com/explained that's w E a L T H F R O N t.com/explained to start building your wealth, go to wealth, front.com/explained to get started today.