3 (0s):
Support for the program today comes from Slow Burn a podcast from Slate in the late 1980s and early 1990s a

1 (7s):
white supremacist became an

3 (9s):
American political phenomenon on the fourth season of slow-burn. They're telling the story of David Dukes rise to power and prominence his election to the Louisiana legislature and then his campaigns for the US Senate and the governorship an existential crisis for the state and the nation. You can binge the entire fourth season of Uber now in apple podcasts or wherever you listen It's not every day a very serious candidate for president of the United States announces the two trillion dollar climate plan.

3 (53s):
In fact, it had never happened before Joe Biden did it last week and it speaks to how discombobulating this particular moment is that you may have missed the news altogether. If you did we're here to explain it to you and where to start. I know let's start with the other guy because President Trump has been taking action on climate to

1 (1m 18s):
I mean, I guess you could describe it that way

3 (1m 21s):
David Roberts writes about climate change at vaux.

1 (1m 24s):
He's re-envisioning an approach as no approach. First thing you did in office was pulled the u.s. Out of the Paris climate agreement, which I think was a signal as to his intentions and since then is pretty much the sole action he's taken on. Climate change is to reverse or roll back Obama era regulations meant to control it that is really the sum total of what he's done on climate

3 (1m 52s):
change and what are the latest developments on that

1 (1m 55s):
front? It's a little bit hard to keep track because there's one or two of these a

3 (1m 60s):
week. He has repealed and weaken regulations that protect water air and land and this includes repealing the Obama era clean water rule weakening protections for endangered species and loosening rules that limit pollution and Carbon emissions

1 (2m 12s):
but I think the one you're talking about is he is not tightening soot pollution standards. And of course it is notoriously damaging for lungs and heart health and it's also notoriously kind of racist in its effect. It's concentrated in in low-income and communities of color, but he's also rolled back Obama's fuel economy regulations and Obama's regulations on power plants and Obama's regulations on methane. I mean just go down the list. He's losing a lot of those battles in court, but that's what he's trying to do. All

3 (2m 46s):
right, so that's option A and for contrast option be Vice President Joseph Robinette Biden Juniors brand-new two trillion dollar plan to combat climate change.

1 (2m 58s):
Yes. It is unquestionably the most ambitious climate plan ever proposed by a presidential

3 (3m 7s):
candidate. It sounds big. How should we break it down for the

1 (3m 11s):
David I divide the this kind of new Democratic alignment around climate policy into three basic buckets standards Investments and Justice.

3 (3m 25s):
All right off we go. Let's talk about the standards

1 (3m 28s):
sure. So he wants to put for instance a NetZero carbon standard in the electricity sector by 2035. So that would drive out all coal and natural gas out of the The electricity sector and replace it with zero carbon sources in 15 years, which is which is a would be fast really

3 (3m 49s):
fast and the Investments

1 (3m 52s):
Investments right big public Investments. So in this is a real sign of how far Biden is moved and his initial plan. He had one point seven trillion it Investments over 10 years. And in this new plan, he's got two trillion dollars of investment over four years. So he really heard that critique. Ramped up that part of this plan and you know Investments a cover a range of things but a lot of is going to be in in low-carbon infrastructure, you know, some electric car chargers high voltage transmission lines CO2 pipelines, but it's the Investments that I think hold out the most hope for creating jobs.

1 (4m 33s):
And that is of course like Biden's overarching focus in almost all policy areas is jobs jobs jobs, Donald

3 (4m 41s):
Trump. It's about climate change. The only word he can muster his hopes. And I think about climate change the word I think of his jobs good paying union jobs and what about the third and last bucket? And then

1 (5m 0s):
the third bucket is Justice which is sort of an overarching concern that covers the other two. So for instance, he's saying that 40% of all these Investments that he's talking about must go to vulnerable communities. If you talk about two trillion dollars that amounts to quite a bit of quite a bit of money. So so just this is sort of infusing the whole thing and that means Justice for the vulnerable communities that are hurt most by the effects of climate change and also the communities that are invested in fossil fuel economies and will be hurt by the transition to clean energy. So like your coal mining communities and fracking communities that kind of thing you have to take care of those people as well if you want to bring them along and this is sort of Been forming on the left on the climate left for a while and and Biden absolutely took it up and is echoing it.

1 (5m 54s):
He is singing that song now, but it's really unprecedented for first sort of the ambitious climate advocates for the moderates in Congress for the for Joe Biden the presidential candidate. Everyone's more or less singing from the same hymn book on climate policy on the left now and that's just a new thing in the

2 (6m 14s):
world.

3 (6m 19s):
How did this come to be Biden didn't start out as the climate guy, right? That was Governor Jay Inslee now all of a sudden Biden's. Mr. Green New Deal

1 (6m 28s):
early in the primary season, Joe Biden put out a climate plan that was not received particularly favorably reactions were anywhere from tepid to extremely negative the the youth Sunrise movement people gave him an f - on that initial plan, which I think you know, there's there's a lot of there's some debate to be had about whether that Entirely fair, but suffice to say it was probably among the weakest plans of any of the presidential candidates the minute Sanders conceded Biden and Sanders started working together with an eye toward exactly this like let's demonstrate some Unity. Let's try to bring These two factions of the left that have been fighting so much together and and you know climate was part of that.

1 (7m 13s):
So the left the climate left sort of the green groups and Unions and environmental justice groups and sort of the whole range of the left has been Consulting and working on policy really furiously over the last couple of years and they've sort of come around to a rough consensus or alignment around a few basic principles. And so this new plan is right in line with that basic alignment. That's that's come out of the

3 (7m 44s):
left you follow this stuff more closely than most. Were you surprised to see this? Alden New guard come together on climate. Well anything that

1 (7m 55s):
appears good surprises me these days. So yes, yes. It is surprising. I mean it is actually I think the Logics or the Strategic and political Logic for why he's doing this is clear enough like it's not I mean if you wanted to tell us in a cool story about a you could he needs he needs youth enthusiasm. He knows there's no Prospect for real bipartisan cooperation on this issue. So there's no point in trying to sort of pretend there is so you might as well just get the left on your side. So so the logic is clear, but it does I think speak well of Biden and I did and I do think it it shows that when he says right because because when he first started running there was a real Vibe of like I'm going to be the guy that restores normal right?

1 (8m 48s):
I'm going to take us back to Normal sane Obama world that we all know and miss and I think it's to his credit that he has seen the chaos since then and sort of come to appreciate that this historical moment is more than that. He's going to have to be more than that. And now he's started talking about he knows he needs to be a transformational president. He knows that he needs to be an FDR style big Vision president and that's not what he's known for. He's not really shown signs of that throughout his career, but I think he is genuinely aware of the historical moment and trying his best to respond to

2 (9m 33s):
it.

3 (9m 41s):
All right. Biden has United with the left on climate. Now. He's got a deal with the right. I'm Sean Rama's firm. That's next on today

2 (9m 48s):
explained.

3 (10m 8s):
Support for the show today comes from California City. It's a new podcast from Elias Studios. Here's how this one works. If someone told you that buying a piece of land way out in the Mojave Desert could make you a lot of money wouldn't you be at least a little bit curious? I mean if you lived remotely close to the Mojave Desert. Well, it was a dream that developers sold to thousands of people in the California desert. But the reality turned out to be much different than that and this new podcast California City Chronicles the really really dark side of the American dream and how it came to be that so many people spent a lot of money on a lot of land that's nearly worthless.

3 (10m 53s):
I previewed this bad boy and it's got all

1 (10m 56s):
sorts of good stuff. It's like a modern-day Western crime Noir. It's got some shady characters some people. Who

3 (11m 5s):
look like do-gooders, but really might not be a crooked police chief and the person who started it all 60 years ago an immigrant with the dream of his own the First episodes of California City are available now with new episodes dropping on Mondays download California City at Elias. Test.com, California City or wherever you listen to your podcast that website one more time. Laia st.com, California City. This episode is brought to you by a vast a global leader in cybersecurity committed to making your life online a lot. Safer. Avast is trusted by more than 435 million users to keep their data safe and their devices protected from nasty malware and other viruses Avast has a whole Suite of tools to keep your identity protected and your online actions hidden from prying eyes no matter what part of your Digital Life you want to protect Avast has you covered a great place to get started.

3 (12m 3s):
Started is with a vast premium security its warts all online threats including ransomware viruses and spoofed websites built to steal your information or check out a vast secure line VPN, which encrypts your internet connection no matter what Wi-Fi network you're on if you use a lot of public networks at coffee shops or airports where your data is, especially vulnerable. This is the tool for you. Avast also has services like a vast cleanup premium, which helps get rid of your cyber junk to make your computer as Snappy as it. When you first bought it they offer a ton of other products to help solve every online security problem. You could imagine don't worry about viruses phishing attacks ransomware hacking attempts and cyber crime.

3 (12m 44s):
Again. Avast products are there to protect you learn more about Avast privacy security and performance products at a vast.com. All right, David Biden's got a bunch of the political left on board with this climate plan. What about everyone else? Let's start with conservative Democrats

1 (13m 6s):
this sort of genuinely conservative Democrats that used to hamper climate policy back when Obama was trying to pass it are mostly gone from Congress, right? It's all part of this sort of partisan sorting. So like there aren't that many genuinely conservative Democrats left Or democrats from sort of fossil fuels state. So they're just That group of people is much smaller. And I think that they much like Joe Biden have seen that were in a real historical moment here and maybe like the normal political rules don't apply. So I think at the very least they are open to it and plus this isn't you know as much as the right tries to make this seem like sort of Fruit Loop socialist, whatever Biden's talking about industrial policy to create jobs, which is it just a A long storied American tradition.

1 (14m 0s):
That's what the new deal was. I mean Americans are familiar with how government can do this. Its it lives in historical memory. So this isn't the kind of left policy that tends to sort of trigger Centrist, right? I mean investments in job like unions Like Richard trumka of the AFL-CIO came out with with, you know, complimentary words about this plan the unions Like the idea of giant Investments That create jobs like there's not really a political constituency in the Democratic party who is against the idea of big public Investments to create jobs, right? It's a very popular policy across the board.

3 (14m 42s):
So let's talk about the right instead Republicans are fighting over extending unemployment benefits right now during a global pandemic house Biden going to convince anyone to work with him on two trillion in climate.

1 (14m 57s):
Thanks. Oh my goodness. Well, how much time do you have a lot of hurdles? First of all is the question of whether Democrats win Congress when the Senate specifically so if Republicans keep control of the Senate and Biden wins the presidency all that legislation goes away. So that's the first hurdle if Republicans lose the Senate if Democrats win the Senate and and Biden has the presidency and the house and the It then he has a deal with the Senate filibuster. So the question is will Biden and Congressional Democrats try to substantially reform or get rid of the filibuster.

1 (15m 40s):
If they don't then once again most legislation is off the table, you know, even you know, like Chris Coons a senator who has been a real institutionalist for years and has always defended the filibuster even he said the other day.

3 (15m 55s):
I will not sit idly. we buy for four years and watched the administration the Biden Administration have its key nominations and its policy agenda for did that was intended to say that I believe we should defend the filibuster, but I'm not willing to sit high for four years and watched an entire Administration lose the opportunity to make real

1 (16m 18s):
change, even the institutionalists recognize that

3 (16m 23s):
we have to get something

1 (16m 24s):
done this time and if that requires Procedural, you know through a hard ball, maybe, you know, we'll have to acclimate ourselves to some procedural Hardball. The one thing I think that Biden absolutely can do and absolutely should be focused on and that people should absolutely hold him accountable for is executive action from the president's office. And there's a lot you can do with the agencies. There's a lot you can do with EPA and interior and stuff like that and the only sort of cap on that kind of ambition is kind of boldness. Like what you know sort of again. It's a procedural Hardball, but

3 (16m 59s):
also it will depend a lot on the people. He has around him. So I think in this Administration even more than normal Staffing is a

1 (17m 9s):
huge huge question and something that climate Advocates are really focused on right now who are the people around him talking in his ear when these decisions arise?

3 (17m 21s):
When I hear you mention executive action on climate, I think about President Obama who did lots of fat only to have it undone as we saw, you know last week this week practically every other week by President Trump. Any chance Biden has learned anything from being around for all of this.

1 (17m 39s):
Well, I think the main lesson from Obama's rain generally, but especially on climate change is just Republicans aren't going to cooperate. There's no amount of pursuit no amount of begging. No amount of you know meeting them in the Senate cafeteria and glad handing them the all their incentives point to blocking everything. So there's a question of whether Joe Biden realizes they're not because early in his campaign. Of course, he was talking about

3 (18m 5s):
like look I get in trouble. I read a New York Times today that I one of my problems is if I ever run for president, I like Republicans. Okay bless me Father for I have sinned but But you know from right where I come from. I don't know how you get anything done. I don't know if they getting done as we start talking to one another again,

1 (18m 34s):
and no one really knows how much he's just saying that because it appeals to people because it really does appeal to people when he talks like that or how much she really believes it. But I lately he sort of dropped that and I so I think he's learned from Obama that a there's no margin in slowing yourself down in the hopes of getting some. Bipartisan cooperation you just got to go full speed the second you have your hands on the reins of power because the window for getting things done is very short. And if you try to sort of talk Republicans into things they will deliberately drag it out and make it take forever. Like they did with the ACA, you know and just burn up the political power momentum you have and ruined your Anything after that, so hopefully Joe Biden has learned that history demands that he just take concerted action.

1 (19m 33s):
No matter what

3 (19m 33s):
Republicans say, if he could make something happen here. Would that put the United States back on track with the planet's climate goals?

1 (19m 43s):
Well, that's a little bit of a complicated question. It's the basic Target that the ipcc has laid out as that the entire world needs to reach. Zero emissions by 2050 slowly but surely the countries of the world are all coming around behind that Target. That's kind of becoming the standard Target and that is what Biden and Democrats say they are aiming for

3 (20m 6s):
science requires a timetable for measuring progress on climate that isn't three decades or even to science tells us we have nine years. Before the damage is irreversible. So my timetable results is a my first four years as

1 (20m 27s):
president. So in that sense, it is in line with what the scientists say. Now, of course, you know as much as some sort of Hardcore climate Advocates might want

3 (20m 37s):
more the fact is that

1 (20m 39s):
if the u.s. Can get its shit together and accomplish. What is in Biden's plan? It would be one of the most amazing feats of of national will in world history much less American history. Like there's no this is not unambitious. So it's definitely putting us on the road that's in line with science. Like, you know, the ethics of it. You can always like more ambitious as always better. There's always going to be blue want you to be more ambitious, but this is about as fast as I can even imagine American politics being

2 (21m 14s):
pushed.

3 (21m 22s):
Dave Roberts writes about climate and energy for Vox. He's got a piece titled Joe Biden has a chance to make history on climate change up at vox.com right

2 (21m 32s):
now.

3 (21m 50s):
What if a salesperson told you that buying a piece of empty desert land in the middle of the Mojave Desert was your ticket to the American dream? You know what we are immigrants. We thought in America we cannot imagine just happened to us and what if later when it was too late you realized you'd made a huge mistake. My dream is not gonna happen anymore deep in the Mojave Desert. There's a town called California City. It was supposed to be a brand new City LA without the traffic or the Ugh, but that didn't happen for decades real estate developers have gotten Rich by selling a dream here, but was it a dream or was it a deception? Okay, no trespassing violators will be shot survivors will be shot again.

3 (22m 33s):
Hello. I'm reporter Emily Guerin listen to California City the dark side of the American dream a story about money power and deception wherever you get your podcasts.