4 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from the Thera gum Gen4. It's a massage device that you can try right now risk free for 30 days. There is no substitute for the Thera gun Gen4 with its OLED screen personalize their gun app and the quiet and power you need starting at only $199. You can go with Aragon.com explain right now and get your Jen fourth Aragon today that is there a gun.com explained Thera gun.com cam / explained On Monday, I will name a group of leading scientists and experts as transition advisors to help take the Biden hair is colored planning converted into an action blueprint that will start on January the 20th 2021.

4 (1m 6s):
That plan will be built on Bedrock science will be constructed out of compassion empathy and concern. I will spare no effort none or any commitment. to turn around this pandemic President elect Joe Biden gave his victory speech Saturday night stressing. He would hit the ground running on covid-19. His timing couldn't be better the United States hit 10 million confirmed cases today. We're seeing a hundred thousand new cases a day hospitalizations or up death syrup and the outgoing guy shows little to no interest in doing very much about any of it.

4 (1m 50s):
In fact, it was reported that Mike Pence who's supposed to be in charge of the white. Houses coronavirus task force is heading to Florida tomorrow for a vacation. Yeah, the former Vice President Joe Biden. Once again spoke to the American people today echoing what he said on Saturday the bottom line. I will spare no effort to turn this pandemic around once were sworn in in January 20th. Dylan's got you covered healthcare for Vox Biden announced this task force officially today. How is it different from the one we got other than you know, the guy in charge of the one we have is taking vacation right as things have gone from worst to worst.

4 (2m 34s):
So Biden has appointed a lot of prominent Public Health experts, you know, it's people who have been advising his campaign for a I'll people like Vivek Murthy and we know that you've got to bring together all of the resources in the public and private sector you've got to communicate with one voice lead with science and get resources to people on the front line was there tried and true principles of pandemic response is the former US Surgeon General under President Obama David Kessler who's a former FDA commissioner. There are people like Zeke Emanuel and Julia Morita who's a former Chicago Health commissioner. So it's a a pretty broad Coalition of folks who have a various levels of expertise that will be important for responding to the covid-19 pandemic in terms of how a difference from the White House task force.

4 (3m 22s):
The most obvious example is, you know, Scott Atlas has kind of become the most important White House advisor on covid-19 those who are not at risk to be to die or have a serious Hospital requiring an illness. We should be fine with letting them get infected generating. Mmm. Unity on their own and the more immunity in the community the better we can eradicate the threat of the virus including the threat to people who are vulnerable that's what herd immunity is and the kind of people that Biden has appointed I think Envision a much more sort of proactive intervention on the part of the federal government.

4 (4m 7s):
Well, let's go through what this Biden task force can do instead of just giving giving up and banking on herd immunity and who knows hundreds of thousands. If not millions of deaths that would entail what more can be done on testing. So I think there's a couple of things one making rapid testing widely available more widely available much more widely available, but it also means changing some of the criteria and the guidelines for who gets tested. You know, the Trump Administration has through much of the pandemic had a pretty restrictive criteria for who should actually get We know that really you need to be doing as much testing as possible. You need to be testing out in the general population.

4 (4m 48s):
Not just people who are showing symptoms because that's the only way you're going to catch some of these infections early encourage people to isolate and thereby help reduce some of the spread and then real Biden has talked about creating a pandemic testing board. That would be responsible for making sure that we have the right testing resources in the right places across the country, depending Gone where you know covid-19 is ramping up versus some places where it might be ebbing and they don't need as many testing resources something that have Pandemic testing board could do is say like, alright, we need to send more supplies to California or to Kansas or wherever is experiencing a spike in covid-19 cases because that's where the emergency is right now.

4 (5m 33s):
And right now we don't really have that kind of national coordination of testing. It's much more of a free for all states having to figure out on their own. How to get their hands on the supplies they need. So again, I think Biden envisions a much more proactive role for the federal government and managing testing resources and trying to make sure that everywhere where more testing is needed they're able to get results in a timely fashion so that we can really start to clamp down on new infections. You mentioned that Zeke Emanuel Beyond Biden's coronavirus task force. He of course advise the Obama Administration on health policy as well. We had them on the show months ago to talk about the Coronavirus. And he's stressed the importance of contact tracing contact tracing depends upon being able to identify covid positive people and then look at their contacts rapidly.

4 (6m 21s):
That's where technology really needs to have to come in and then get those people tested that is the nature of the game. And of course the Trump Administration has not is this something that the incoming Biden Administration will finally ramp up. Yeah. I think this will be another point of emphasis for the Biden Administration. That's certainly how countries like Germany and South Korea have may have managed to keep their outbreaks under relative control is a very aggressive testing and tracing program as you say the Trump Administration has really not taken any kind of interest in contact tracing. They haven't, you know, they haven't focused on just providing the money to hire more contact tracing workers.

4 (7m 1s):
They haven't taken much of an interest in the digital smartphone applications that could help with contact tracing. This is another thing that's largely been delegated. To the States and it's an area where I think the bite Administration would like to see the federal government take more of a leadership role. Now. This will be an interesting one because Biden has proposed creating this new US public health Corps that would basically hire a hundred thousand people to be spread across the country and oversee this these kind of contact tracing efforts that is probably the kind of thing that would require Congress to get involved and approve the funding.

4 (7m 41s):
Had to hire those people and and that's one where we'll have to wait and see you know, what the mood is in the environment. The political environment is in January. When bite it takes office, you know are Republicans in charge of the senate or do Democrats have a majority if step Republicans are in charge as Mitch McConnell willing to approve this kind of funding for the testing and tracing efforts. I think that remains to be seen I think there are certainly some things that the Biden Administration could do administratively to try to encourage states to do more contact tracing. Thing to try to provide them with better guidance about how to do it. But in terms of a big investment into contact tracing that could be an area where we need more action from Congress.

4 (8m 22s):
And obviously there's just a lot of uncertainty right now about what Congress will be willing to do Under The Bite Administration. The president-elect is talked a lot about listening to science will follow the science will follow the signs. Let me say that again and we'll adjust to new data when it comes in. I mean we can assume that that means that he won't have an Agonistic relationship with people like dr. Fouch e we can assume that we might see the CDC playing a bigger role here than it has under President Trump. What does that actually mean for the nation's ability to fight this virus when I talked to the folks on the Biden covid planning team earlier this fall, they really emphasized over and over again that they see one of their most important roles as just providing.

4 (9m 11s):
Going steady trustworthy leadership on covid-19 because you know the polling shows us that most Americans. Don't trust what they hear from President Trump or from the White House when it comes to the coronavirus and I think that distrust helps to explain a lot of the problems that we've had and you know, one of the things that we've seen under the Trump Administration is that it's been you know, political figures who have often been the face of the federal government the people who are communicating important information to the public. Covid-19 and I think that is part of the reason that we've seen a lot of distrust in the public because they can't tell you know, how much of this is science and how much of this is politics. So I think the Biden folks think that just by putting Anthony falchi out in front or the you know, whomever the new CDC director might be just putting them out in front making them the face of the government response rather than Mike Pence or Trump himself could do a lot.

4 (10m 7s):
It doesn't matter your party your point of view. We can say tens of thousands of lives. If everyone would just wear a mask for the next few months. Not democrat or republican lives American lives. You know, maybe we'd Save a Life of person who stalks the Shelf at your local grocery store, maybe saves the life of a member of your place of worship, maybe saves lives of one of your children's teachers, maybe save your life. So please I implore you wear a mask. Obviously, there's no guarantees. We are a very polarized country. There are certainly people who are going to be Miss trustful of what a Biden White House says about covid-19 just like there.

4 (10m 51s):
People who didn't trust the Trump white house, but I think the polling shows pretty clearly that you know Americans do want to get on board with a lot of these Public Health interventions. They do trust Joe Biden more than they trust Donald Trump when it comes to covid-19. And so I think the Biden Administration and waiting is just hoping that having a new face and one who swerved so clearly for grounds science will make a difference in just kind of help to get Americans all on the same page about what it's going to take to get through this pandemic. Is it going to be too late Dylan? I mean is this thing just going to be wildly out of control and even potentially on the path to Scott Atlas is his dream of herd immunity by the time Joe Biden takes office along with this task force.

4 (11m 43s):
He's building in mid to late January. It's hard to predict too much in terms of like how many cases were going to see how many deaths were going to see by January? Obviously, we got some very good news on the vaccine today. Matt is going to be probably the top issue for the Biden Administration by the time they take over is figuring out vaccine distribution. But yeah, we're in for a difficult couple of months. There's some optimism that even just the prospect of Joe Biden coming into office could help Americans get on board with more social distancing and with wearing masks to try to get us through to the period when a vaccine is ready to be distributed.

4 (12m 24s):
But but yeah, There's little evidence that Donald Trump is going to chart a new course on covid-19. And there is only so much the bite in transition team can do so I don't have a lot of Hope For the Rest of November December or the beginning of January, but we'll see how much you know Biden just by being the president-elect is able to start influencing people's attitudes and maybe that will help to stem some of the pain that were likely to experience over the next few months. Dylan thank you. Thank you after the break the very good news about the vaccine today.

4 (13m 11s):
Support for the show today comes from all birds shoutouts to all my people out there who think about where their clothes come from and how they're made all birds does the same they do with their shoes of told you about that a ton of times, but they also do it with their apparel and they have apparel now, they got tops they got outerwear. I felt one of their t-shirts the tree no XO t-shirt very soft and and also made with natural premium. Ariel's like Merino wool like eucalyptus by Bert like kaitos and extracted from discarded crab shells to reduce odor and keep you fresh all day, believe it or not.

4 (13m 52s):
Did you ever think that crab shells would keep you fresh all day especially discarded ones. I bet you didn't but all birds is here to say they can with all birds. You can feel confident knowing you're wearing a product that's doing right by you and the planet if you're looking to get a head start on holiday gifting this year. head to all birds.com today for the perfect gift to receive and give As I mentioned at the top of the shuttered a support for the show comes from the Farrah gun. If you're feeling like a great sense of relief in your muscles and body right now and you want to really like Drive the point home the Thera gun Gen4 can help.

4 (14m 38s):
It's got quiet. It's got signature power. It's got amplitude. It's got Effectiveness, you know, sometimes people who massage you don't have all of those things. This but their gun Jen for sure as heck does and you can try it right now without risks for 30 days. There is no substitute for the their gun Gen4 with its OLED screen. It's personalized their gun app and the quiet and power that you need. It's starting at only 199 dollars. You can go to therapy gun.com explained right now and get your Jen fourth Aragon today. That again is faragonda Cam explaining and th ER agu n.com explained Who mayor van you report on science for Vox as our colleague Dylan just mentioned there was big vaccine news and you've been covering the vaccine news for Vox as well.

4 (15m 40s):
What is the big vaccine news of the day the pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and one of its collaborators a company called bio and Tech based in Germany. They announced today that their clinical trials for their covid-19 vaccine candidate showed that their vaccine. Was 90% or more effective at preventing the infection 90% Yeah, that's a pretty high number and it's pretty good news if these great day for science, it is a great day for Humanity. Is this like break out the champagne across the world like we saw on Saturday is this kind of different kind of news? Well, there are a number of different caveats with this news as well one big one is that this is only drawn from a very small sample size.

4 (16m 24s):
This was only based on 94 or reported infections in a sample pool of more than 40,000 people. Hmm. The other big caveat here is that they announce these results in a press release. They didn't publish their data. They didn't have any peer-reviewed findings. So we only have the company's work to go on now. There's no reason to doubt the company or presume that they are lying or misleading but they are for-profit companies and they have, you know, an interest in promoting good news. We've gotten got some breaking news on Wall Street right now on this Monday morning at the announcement from Pfizer. Used to be responsible for the market soaring to a certain extent right now as you can see the Dow up over a thousand that's almost four percentage points.

4 (17m 6s):
And of course the world seems to be reacting pretty positively to this good news. I've heard help us contextualize what the testing of this vaccine suggests for its efficacy. So the way a trial works is you have to get a large number of people in Phase 3 and you sort them into two categories one group gets the Vaccine one group gets a placebo and then you just kind of let them out into the world. You know, we can't deliberately infect people with the virus. So we just kind of have to wait and see how many people get infected and once they clear a certain Benchmark we can look and see which group they fell into. So if you looked at the 94 people that were infected the majority of them were probably in the placebo group meeting the people who got the vaccine very few of them got sick, but mostly people who did get sick did not get the vaccine at all.

4 (17m 55s):
That seems to indicate that the vaccine is Effective but again, this is a preliminary Benchmark. The company has said so itself the trial they say that they're not going to run it to completion until they confirm and detect about a hundred and sixty four cases, but the early results here are a good sign for the technology. The Pfizer vaccine here is using an mRNA based vaccine. This is in contrast to more conventional vaccines. The old school vaccines used the whole virus that was either weekend or killed off or a fragment of the virus. This case they're using genetic information that's used to make parts of the virus. And this is a completely new technique. This has not been tried before on large scales in humans.

4 (18m 36s):
And the fact that they were able to get good results is an important validation of this technology and it means that this is something that we could be using from here on out and other vaccine manufacturers are also using similar genetic based vaccines companies like moderna. And so that's also a good sign for them as well. But again, this is a very limited sample size. We're not talking about A huge positive result but the fact that they were able to see a positive result. This early does indicate that they're on the right track. What comes next for Pfizer and this vaccine? Well, they say that they are going to continue the trial the 94 inspections in the placebo group is not enough to end the trial but they do think that within a week or two.

4 (19m 20s):
They may have enough not to get full authorization, but maybe to get emergency authorization from the Food and Drug Administration. And so this would make the vaccine available to people in very high risk exposure rolls people like doctors and other Frontline health workers. They may have the option of being able to get this vaccine but very It means that before the general public gets it it will still be a few weeks. If not a few more months before they can actually get enough usable data to get the full approval. We're still in the early stages here mayor, but can we just talk for a second about the scale involved here in potentially vaccinating the world, right? This is going to be one of the biggest challenges here. You know, we're talking about a global pandemic which means we need to have something that works on that scale.

4 (20m 5s):
Even our existing vaccines, you know, we're not talking about typically Vaccinating a billion people with measles vaccines every year. We're trying to Target a small number of people namely, you know children, you know babies who were just born or people who are at highest risk with covid-19, you know, just about everyone's at risk and so we want to be able to blanket this across as many people as possible. That's something that you know pharmaceutical Industries have not really dealt with at that scale and they're kind of learning by doing one of the things that they've done already is starting to build the manufacturing capacity, even though they haven't received approval for any of these Seems so there are already factories and Facilities being built up companies are already investing in the supply chain and the distribution knowing full.

4 (20m 45s):
Well that some other candidates will not pan out and there's been a lot of cooperation a lot of governments that are funding these at-risk some private nonprofits and some philanthropists are also investing in vaccines expecting that most of them won't pan out but they're trying to get ahead of this as much as possible because they know the scale of this is going to be unlike anything we've ever seen before. Okay, and so if that Totally unprecedented thing can be accomplished could this vaccine be you know, the one the one that could bring back some more of that normalcy people are looking for or should we put that dream on the shelf and not look at it for a while. Well, there are some moving Parts here that we have to think about.

4 (21m 29s):
Now 90% efficacy, which they're reporting that means that 9 out of 10 people who get the vaccine will have some form of protection. We don't know what that protection actually is. It could be that the vaccine completely prevents infection all together and that would be great. That would mean that basically if the virus jumps into somebody who has the vaccine it'll come to a halt but it could also be that the vaccine protects only against severe illness. So this may keep you out of the hospital, but it might not prevent you from getting the snow. Holes or feeling mildly under the weather. We know though that people with mild symptoms can still spread the disease and so it may be the case that this vaccine while it may offer most people some form of protection.

4 (22m 10s):
It may not be enough to bring the disease to a halt. Now the other element of getting back to normal, you know, is this idea of herd immunity we need to have enough people in the population immunized and resistant to the virus such that it can't jump easily from person to person and with a highly efficacious vaccine life. This looks like it is that means you don't need to vaccinate as many people to reach that Benchmark, but you still need to be vaccinated millions of people and right now, you know in the clinical trials were only testing tens of thousands of people. So this is something that's orders of magnitude more complicated more logistically intense than what we've been doing to date. So this requires a huge scale up in production in administration.

4 (22m 52s):
And another thing to remember about this vaccine is that this is a two dose vaccine and the two doses have to be spaced about three weeks apart. However, many doses we manufacture you have to basically cut that in half in order to get viable Doses and then you need a tracking apparatus to keep people in check and also to make sure that they get the right dose of the vaccine at the right time. Now with Pfizer's vaccine in particular. There's one additional caveat. This vaccine can be highly unstable at room temperature. And so they have to keep it extremely cold something close to minus 80 degrees Celsius, which is about minus 112 degrees Fahrenheit and there are very few freezers or facilities that can actually we provide that level of cold. It's certainly not your refrigerators freezer that can do that or even a lot of pharmaceutical freezers.

4 (23m 36s):
These are things that have to be custom design and special ordered on a large scale in order to distribute this vaccine to everyone that needs it. Now Pfizer the company says that they've been investing a lot in building the infrastructure to transport this they've developed this box that they say can passively keep this cool for shipping and handling and allow it to get to all the locations where it's needed. But this stands to be one of the big weak links in the Vaccination campaign the cold chain making sure that vaccine stay cold and stay viable in that process. That's going to be a huge challenge. The World Health Organization has reported that somewhere up to half of all vaccines in the world today get spoiled and Transit. So this is a really big problem that we need to resolve if we're going to make sure that this is an effective vaccination campaign.

4 (24m 23s):
No, okay. So this is just orders of magnitude tougher than anything that's ever been done before. The history of humanity. What as Joe Biden said about how he plans on managing the vaccine portion of the equation here. Well President elect Joe Biden talked about making this more of a centralized approach rather than giving this to the states and local cities to administer. It seems like he wants to have the White House doing more of the management of the production the distribution of a vaccine like this that makes sense in some areas and there are some trade-offs as well. This is already a early centralized approach right now because the government is doing so much funding but now we're going to need a lot more coordination because well one this is a complicated vaccine to distribute an administer but also very likely going to have more than one vaccine which means that you know, we need to make sure the best vaccine goes to the right people and that again will require a high level of coordination and I think the Biden Administration has shown that it is thinking about these things and we'll have to see exactly how they plan to tackle these challenges and of course As I discussed with Dylan early in the show.

4 (25m 31s):
This entire coronavirus has been politicized to the point where the whole country seems to have little agreement on one set of facts here. How will Joe Biden get the whole country on board with one to a number of vaccines? It's hard to say at this point. I mean, this is going to be one of the biggest challenges vaccine hesitancy and vaccine acceptance are going to be big hurdles two. You making sure everybody gets vaccinated and if you don't get enough people vaccinated then we won't be able to control the pandemic certainly messaging campaigns are going to be a big part of it. But also building trust with public institutions groups like The Food and Drug Administration.

4 (26m 13s):
For instance. They lost a lot of credibility over the past year because they authorized drugs which seemed like weren't that effective based on political pressure. You may recall hydroxychloroquine, which was given an emergency use authorization after President Trump promoted it aggressively or similarly thing. Is like convalescent plasma that also got our approval even though the data for that were weak. So these institutions need to be rebuilding trustee to be a lot more transparent about what kind of information they're using as their benchmarks and they also need to be communicating with people with Messengers that they actually will listen to so they need to have like a good PR campaign for this vaccine to make sure that everybody who needs to get the vaccine will get it.

4 (26m 57s):
Lumiere I imagine we'll be in touch. Thanks so much for your reporting. No problem. Thanks for having me the mayor fun along with Dylan Scott. He's been covering this pandemic over at vox.com. I'm Sean Rama's from its today explained.