1 (2s):
When Joe Biden was running for president, he said he wanted to be more humane than his predecessor when it came to immigration and policies at the US border with Mexico.

2 (11s):
My father would say it's all about dignity, granting them the dignity and respect they deserve.

1 (19s):
He's had two years to deliver on that promise with Democrats in control of Congress.

4 (26s):
I want to be clear to folks in this region who are thinking about making that dangerous track to the United States, Mexico border do not come,

1 (37s):
And an especially eventful two months with Republicans in control of the house.

2 (43s):
Do not, do not just show up at the border.

1 (48s):
It seems like as good a time as any to assess how President Biden's doing on his pledge. And that is coming up on today. Explained today, explained Sean Ramis. From here with the Washington Posts, Nick Miro, he covers the Department of Homeland Security and Immigration. So he's the right kind of person to ask how decent a job Biden's been doing on the humane treatment of migrants front. Nick said, we gotta start with the last guy.

3 (1m 25s):
Build that wall. Build that wall, build that wall,

5 (1m 29s):
Build that wall. And so, you know, as many listeners will remember, immigration, the border, the border wall, these were red meat fundamental issues for the Trump administration.

3 (1m 41s):
Nearly 180,000 illegal immigrants with criminal records ordered deported from our country are tonight roaming free to threaten peaceful citizens.

5 (1m 57s):
And so when Biden runs for office, he wants to cut a clear contrast right to the Trump administration. He promises to restore, you know, the idea that immigration is sort of central to America's identity, that people need to be treated, you know, more humanely with a greater dignity.

2 (2m 16s):
My father would say it's all about dignity, granting them the dignity and respect they deserve.

5 (2m 24s):
And he wants to capitalize on a lot of the anger that had built up during those years. People disgusted by the family separation episode.

2 (2m 32s):
They separated him at the border to make it a disincentive to come to begin with. Their kids were ripped from their arms and separated, and now they cannot find over 500 of sets of those parents. And those kids are alone. Nowhere to go. Nowhere to go. It's criminal.

5 (2m 52s):
But many other things that I think they, you know, saw between the, the kind of, some of the ugly rhetoric, the symbolism of a border wall, all of these things that were so key to Trump's presidency, Biden really wanted to repudiate that and, and move things in a completely different direction. And so the, you know, the main thing that you hear Biden administration officials say now is he wanted to create an orderly humane system at the border.

1 (3m 21s):
So how does he put that into action the second he sits down in the Oval Office? Because I remember the shooting off of just dozens of executive orders, it seemed like.

5 (3m 31s):
That's right. And so on, on day one. I mean, there were more executive orders related to immigration on the border than anything else, right. Halting, you know, construction on the border wall. A big one was ordering like a pause on interior enforcement from ice on, you know, on deportations.

6 (3m 47s):
Immigration and customs enforcement officers will reportedly be given new guidance that will lead to fewer arrests and deportations. The policy change would mean ice agents no longer seek deportations for immigrants convicted of drunk driving and assault. It also weakens ICE's ability to arrest, wanted immigrants at correctional facilities.

5 (4m 7s):
And so, you know, you just saw this flurry of, of activity and I think that a case could be made that many of the challenges that the administration has faced since then were set into motion. And that just in that initial period when there was a, a real need to, again, repudiate the Trump administration by taking these moves. But the signal that it sent, I think particularly throughout Latin America, was that there had been a major change in policy and that the administration, the United States was going from a more closed approach to border enforcement to a more open one. And I mean, you saw Biden figures continuing to say, the border's not open, don't come to the border.

4 (4m 49s):
I want to be clear to folks in this region who are thinking about making that dangerous track to the United States, Mexico border do not come.

5 (5m 1s):
But by then, I think there had been a change in perception and what people were hearing from their friends and their family members who were here, is that there were a lot of jobs and that things weren't as restrictive now that Trump was gone and that this was a good time to come. And so that precipitated some very, very challenging and politically damaging scenes at the border for the

7 (5m 26s):
President. The southern US border is being tested in ways never before seen in the last fiscal year. Federal officials say there were more than 2.7 million undocumented border crossers beating the previous record by more than a million.

1 (5m 40s):
Does Biden see this coming, this transition to a more humane policy at the border leading to more people showing up at the border? Does he know that's gonna happen?

5 (5m 50s):
I think he does cuz and that's one of the incredible things about this, is that right before he took office and he was talking about, you know, his agenda and he said, the

2 (5m 58s):
Last thing we need is to say we're going to stop immediately the access to asylum, the way it's being run now, and end up with 2 million people on our border.

5 (6m 9s):
And sure enough, they u US Customs and Border Protection has recorded basically 2 million arrests per year during the first two years of his presidency. So that did happen.

7 (6m 20s):
This has inflamed an already explosive issue. Republican lawmakers started busing and flying migrants to Democrat run cities. While Democrats are openly critical of the Biden administration, urging the president to demonstrate this is a priority for him,

8 (6m 36s):
Just show up. It doesn't take much to just show up at the border.

5 (6m 41s):
What he wanted to avoid ended up happening. And I mean, people who have followed his career, and particularly his, the sort of origins of his identity as a kind of, you know, law and order guy, I mean, they think that this kind of thing is very, you know, painful to him or difficulty. He doesn't like the perception that something that he's responsible for is out of control and is in disorder. Hmm. And that there's like a lot of law breaking going on. So I think there's a possibility, you know, that this bothers him and it probably took him beyond his comfort zone as a politician.

1 (7m 13s):
So what does he do about it in his first two years in office?

5 (7m 15s):
So, you know, the, the one Trump era policy enforcement policy that the administration held onto is the Title 42 pandemic Emergency Restrictions.

9 (7m 30s):
Title 42 is simply a public health rule that allows border patrol to immediately expel migrants back to Mexico once they have crossed illegally. And they're allowed to do that on the basis of public health because we're in a pandemic. And

5 (7m 42s):
By the end of the Trump administration, the pandemic was in, you know, in full swing. And Trump's immigration advisors led by Steven Miller realized that they had this tool, title 42, which is, you know, in the US Public Health Code, and basically allows us authorities at the border to expel to quickly turn back somebody who comes across the border, either to their home country or to Mexico. And Mexico put limits on exactly who it was gonna take back and when. Right. And, and over time put more and more limits on that. But the, but the basic principle was that you can't have all these people in custody along the border.

5 (8m 22s):
You can't be holding them in detention. And so what we have to do is just send them back and send them out as quickly as possible.

1 (8m 29s):
As the country's pandemic restrictions fall off. This one particular restriction for immigrants stays in place at the border.

5 (8m 37s):
Yeah. And the way they handled it, and the way they managed their relationship to immigrant advocacy groups and the humanitarian groups that work with immigrants was to make more and more exceptions to Title 42 expulsions. Right. So, whereas Trump was really in intensely enforcing Title 42 during those last months of the presidency, and he said

10 (8m 55s):
That pretty much every undocumented immigrants in the US without legal status was subject to arrests and deportation.

5 (9m 2s):
Biden, little by little starts to expel fewer and fewer lower, lower percentage of people who are coming across

11 (9m 9s):
Officials are letting in families who have children under the age of six and then releasing them into border towns like Macallan, Texas.

12 (9m 16s):
The Biden administration is also no longer using the Trump Arab policy of expelling migrant children because of health concerns created by the pandemic.

5 (9m 24s):
So little by little Title 42 ceases to be as relevant or as rigorously enforced at the border so that after they get to say, you know, I think it was after about a year, Biden administration starts to prepare to end it.

13 (9m 39s):
Of course we are planning for multiple contingencies and we have every expectation that when the CDC ultimately decides it's appropriate to lift Title 42, there will be an influx of people to the border. And so we are doing a lot of work to plan for that contingency. I think

5 (9m 55s):
You saw by then, they're already seeing record numbers of people coming across and they're getting kicked in the teeth politically for it by the Republicans. Hmm. They try to lift it, but then they're sued and they lose. And that's the last they ever hear from Republicans. Not quite.

14 (10m 10s):
The federal government was sued over the use of Title 42 and a federal judge in Washington DC recently ordered the government to stop using the measure. 15 conservative states, including Texas, are now asking the judge to reverse his ruling.

15 (10m 24s):
Once this authority goes out the window and that appears to be imminent, the situation is going to get much, much worse.

5 (10m 33s):
And it goes all the way to the Supreme Court. And so they had scheduled hearings for the next phase of, of that case for March, but they have canceled them. And that is because the White House has come out and said that they are going to end the public health emergency related to the pandemic on May 11th. Therefore eliminating basically the underlying basis for the Title 42 border restrictions. And the court Supreme Court has removed that hearing from its calendar without saying why. And now the question is, does that mean that they have endorsed the White House's position on this? We know that the state's plan to keep pressing and they want to keep Title 42 in place.

5 (11m 15s):
How

16 (11m 15s):
Do you keep that in place? That is, that is about covid, that is about public health

17 (11m 20s):
Risk, whether it's covid or some other issue. When you got people coming across the globe without knowing at all what their health status is, that almost by definition is a public health risk. There's every reason to keep that in place.

5 (11m 44s):
The cynical interpretation of why they're doing that at this point is that they believe that keeping Title 42 in place will prolong chaos at the border, will prolong a state of affairs. You know, that we have seen with very high numbers of people coming across, attempting to enter the administration, really struggling to manage it and being saddled with the perception that they can't manage and control the border. What a mess. It is a mess. But that's immigration in the United States

1 (12m 23s):
With Nick in a minute on.

18 (12m 37s):
I am Ellie Honing host of Up Against the Mob, the Springfield crew. I was a federal prosecutor in Manhattan where I took down over 100 mobsters and head of all my cases. Nothing was as wild as the murder of Big Al Bruno. Big Al ran the mob in Springfield, Massachusetts. His murder would become our best shot at taking down the Springfield mob once and for all. But it wasn't going to be easy up against the mob, the Springfield crew from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network. Following your listening app to hear the first episode on March 1st.

1 (13m 19s):
Have you guys heard of the pitch? It's a podcast you may have previously heard advertised on this show, and you are actually currently hearing it advertised on this show right now. The Pitch is a podcast where real entrepreneurs pitch real tech investors for real money and it's back for a real new season. Each episode follows a hopeful entrepreneur through their business pitch before a panel of prospective investors. Founders have raised over 10 million on this show from some legendary early stage investors. Several of these startups are worth hundreds of millions of dollars today. Money, money, money, money.

1 (13m 59s):
This season you'll hear pitches on everything from a better catch up to a potential solution to one of the biggest problems of our time. That would be energy listeners could hear the next billion dollar idea way before anyone else and learn about the world of startup investing along the way. You can follow the pitch to hear new episodes every Wednesday.

0 (14m 23s):
They'd

19 (14m 24s):
Heard about Country win. They and

1 (14m 34s):
All today explained, we are back with the Washington Posts, immigration and homeland security reporter Nick Miro, who in the first half of the show walked us through the first two years of Biden immigration policy. We talked a lot about Title 42, but now I wanna talk Nick, about the last two months, the two months since Republicans have taken control of the House of Representatives, it feels like it's been very eventful.

5 (14m 56s):
Yeah, there's been a lot going on. So I think what we've seen since the midterms is the administration attempting to pivot maybe more toward the center, more toward a more enforcement minded approach to the border. In December of last year, they had more than 250,000 encounters, you know, basically arrests along the southern border. That was the highest level we've ever seen. And that, you know, I think was for the administration at least a tipping point. And immediately in the beginning of the year, we saw them try to roll out what's going to be their new border strategy. And that is going to be a combination of tighter enforcement with using executive authority to create what they would call legal pathways, more channels, more opportunities for migrants to enter the United States legally.

1 (15m 44s):
What does that look

5 (15m 45s):
Like? So it's like a two-pronged approach. The legal avenues are mostly created through what's called parole. What they're doing is they are going to allow up to 30,000 migrants from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Venezuela.

20 (16m 1s):
It requires migrants from those countries have a sponsor in the US undergo rigorous background checks, apply from outside the US and not cross illegally.

2 (16m 11s):
Do not do not just

5 (16m 13s):
Show up at the border and they will apply through a mobile app. And if approved, they can enter the United States like you know, by air, they can land at an airport, they'll get a fast track to a work authorization. Hmm. The potential to adjust their status to a more permanent status once they're already here. Why

1 (16m 33s):
Those four countries?

5 (16m 34s):
Well, those four countries were really driving this huge increase in the numbers at the border. You know, when we got to 250,000 monthly in December, that was when people were like sleeping on the streets of El Paso because there was no more space for them in shelters when really the system had just, you know, was on the brink of collapse.

16 (16m 53s):
One year-old Brenda has no shoes. Her tiny feet bear on the cold pavement of an El Paso parking lot. Are you gonna sleep outside again? What are you gonna do? Her parents, Anthony Blanco and Glenda Matos say they wrapped this rosary around her ankle for protection when they left Venezuela four months ago. <unk> She says that she thought that her daughter was gonna die overnight because it was so cold. They had just crossed the river, they were wet.

5 (17m 24s):
And those four nationalities were driving it in large part because the United States basically can't deport or return migrants from Venezuela, Cuba, and Nicaragua because of our strained relations with, with those nations, they're basically not accepting Deportee from the United States. Hmm. And so because we can't deport them, most of the, they have been released into the interior of the United States after they're processed at the border and that that invites more and more illegal crossings. And so that situation was really kind of spiraling. And so they come in and they say, we're gonna create this program admitting up to 30,000 a month from these countries. But we're also, we've also worked out a deal with Mexico.

5 (18m 3s):
Mexico is now gonna start taking back up to 30,000 a month from these countries if people cross illegally if they don't follow the legal process that we are creating through this parole program. Right. Hmm. So it's classic carrot stick approach. What we see almost immediately is a massive change at the border. Right. The number of people being taken into custody after crossing illegally from those four nations drops 97%. Wow.

1 (18m 29s):
Yeah. So

5 (18m 29s):
Effective, super effective. But with some caveats, namely whenever the government takes some kind of drastic enforcement measure at the border, we typically see everyone kind of stand back, pause the smuggler, sort of step back, try to recess how the landscape is changed, then they adjust, then they try to work around it. Yeah. And I should also say, of course they get sued. Right? Ah-huh.

1 (18m 52s):
Classic

5 (18m 53s):
Ken Paxton, the Texas Republican Attorney General leads a group of 20 states led by Republican officials that are suing, trying to block the parole program saying it's a, an abuse of executive authority.

1 (19m 6s):
Why are these Republicans mad if, if it worked and it slowed immigration at the border?

5 (19m 12s):
That is the administration's argument. The states are saying, these people are not authorized to come into the country. You are creating a parallel visa system. This far exceeds the authorities that are given to the executive branch by Congress under the Immigration and Nationality Act. I see. And so that is the legal matter that dispute there. Okay. Now, prong two, this is very important, is the thing that we just saw rolled out last week. And that is the more rigorous enforcement element, which is a new proposal, a proposed rule they call it, that will effectively punish any asylum seeker who enters the United States illegally or doesn't seek protection in another country.

5 (19m 55s):
They transit and route to the US border.

21 (19m 57s):
It really shows how the, this administration has become a little harder on immigration than what a lot of these groups expected from President Biden. And what he campaigned on when he said he wanted to go back to a safe, orderly, and inhumane immigration policy.

5 (20m 12s):
But so in part the US immigration law is very clear on this, it doesn't matter how you come to the United States, whether you cross illegally or come to enter legally, you have the right to seek protection from persecution back in your, in your home country. Hmm. And so what the administration is trying to do is to say that if somebody enters illegally, then we are going to give them a, what they call a rebuttable presumption of asylum and eligibility that is going to weigh heavily on their claim. That means when they go to try to make their case for asylum, they are going to hit this, you know, they would call it a bar, but it was basically they would have to overcome it by saying, you know, there were extraordinary circumstances that prevented me from applying through your legal channels.

5 (20m 56s):
I was fleeing for my life. Or there's like some medical exception or something like that. But basically they would have to overcome that very high hurdle in order to qualify for asylum.

22 (21m 5s):
It does feel disjointed whether you compare what President Biden said as a candidate versus what he's done as president. Or even the fact that at the time when the administration is fighting Title 40 twos use in court, they're also expanding it. We saw the

5 (21m 21s):
Announcement and the reason you're seeing so many immigration advocates and many Democrats up in arms is that this would be a major change to the way asylum claims are processed at the border. Hmm. Now they are also going to be on shaky legal ground and the A C L U has said that they're going to sue the Biden administration to prevent this policy from taking effect.

1 (21m 43s):
Wow. So basically from the right and from the left. That's right. The administration's taking heat.

5 (21m 49s):
Exactly. They're gonna be fighting on, on both fronts. And again, this is very shaky ground because, you know, US immigration law is clear that asylum is supposed to be open to anyone no matter how they arrive.

1 (22m 1s):
Thinking back to where we started in this conversation, Nick, where, you know, Biden wants to set a more humane tone than the previous administration. I'm just, from anything you just said, it sounds like at least the previous administration only got heat from one side of this fight, but Biden's actually taken heat from both. Has he at least been more humane? Did he, did he deliver at least that part of his pledge?

5 (22m 25s):
I think that they have, and I I think that any serious examination of what they have done over the past two years shows that they completely change the way the government talks about migrants and immigrants. Okay. They have removed many of the policies put in place by the Trump administration that were designed to punish or, or deter migrants through harsh treatment. If we think about interior enforcement in the United States by ice, the number of of people who are being arrested and deported by ice is at like a multi-decade low. Huh. And you have an administration that is closing ice detention centers and has very, very, very restrictive directions to ICE officers about who they can arrest and when.

5 (23m 16s):
Another thing that has Republicans up in arms, and we've seen them, you know, halt construction on the border wall and President Trump's signature project and a number of other measures. I mean, for the, the things that readers will be familiar with, there are dozens of other little things that they have done to reverse restrictive measures that Trump had taken. Okay. And just in the way this White House is clearly very anguished about the way they talk about new enforcement measures, shows a sensitivity to this criticism. But again, this is, this is the challenge for any democratic administration at the border and on immigration enforcement specifically, right. Which is that you have to walk this very narrow tightrope Between this core part of your base, for whom almost any restrictive enforcement measure is unacceptable and Republican party that is very much united on this issue and loves to beat you over the head with it and is going to beat you over the head with it.

5 (24m 19s):
Heading into next year's reelection campaign,

1 (24m 31s):
Nick Mi, immigration, DHS at the Washington Post. Our show today was produced by Heidi Ma Wadi. It was edited by Jolie Meyers Fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd. It's today explained.