3 (12s):
Two weeks ago to the day George Floyd died after Minneapolis Police Officer, Derek Chauvin knelt on his neck for almost nine minutes and ever since people have been out in the streets demanding action black lives matter isn't just something that happened several years ago anymore. It's not just something that you know, your woke cousin says at Thanksgiving dinner now Ben and Jerry's wants to dismantle white supremacy Sesame Street held a town hall on racism. Most of them welcome. Oh

1 (46s):
racism is when people

3 (47s):
treat other people

1 (49s):
unfairly because of the way they

3 (51s):
look on the color of their skin and is weakened the movement got bigger peaceful protesters demonstrated in cities big and small throughout the United States the protests continue to spread worldwide, Australia Poland Italy a statue of a slave trader got toppled and thrown in a harbor. Were in England Mitt Romney was out marching in DC

1 (1m 16s):
violence and brutality and to make sure the people understand the black lives matter

3 (1m 24s):
and the president of the United States. He spent the last few days mocking MIT dog whistling Law and Order and rallying against sleepy Joe Biden. Unfortunately President Trump, Joe isn't looking all that sleepy anymore over the weekend Joe Biden officially clinched the delegates needed. To win the Democratic nomination former Secretary of State Colin Powell came out and said he'd be voting for Joe. And today a CNN poll put Biden at 55 percent over Trump's 41. It would appear that sleepy Joe is biding his time all the way to the White House. It's been a long time since we've talked about Biden's candidacy on the show.

3 (2m 4s):
So I asked Matthew Iglesias. If all the tumult of the past few months has been good for Joe 2020. Well, I think the idea of saying decent government, right which is always been what Biden has been promising that that has a lot of appeal and resonance now, I mean, it's been striking looking at the pandemic that you know, basically every governor in America every Head of State in Europe has gotten a bounce in the polls and Donald Trump has not and some of that is because of specific policy decisions from his made wrong, but I think a lot of it is because Trump has not performed the role. Head of state he has not LED at National mourning.

3 (2m 45s):
He has not conveyed factual information to the public in a calm and credible way. Right and Biden is out there reminding us of what it is like to operate as a normal politician and of how valuable it is right not to say everything in America was perfect in December 2016, but that we had certain things that we could count on them that we can't count. Count on now and similarly, I think with the the policing issue, you know, of course one message of the protests is that we can't just go back to normal that we can't just accept business as usual but something that we're seeing in President Trump's response to the protests is a total lack of empathy a total lack of calm a total lack of reasonableness and inability to say, ah, I see a lot of people are out in the streets.

3 (3m 39s):
I hear what you are saying. I am going to do something that will help address your concerns instead. He's responding in a very abnormal way tear-gassing demonstrators lashing out on Twitter in weird ways doing nothing and to try to promote reconciliation to acknowledge the depth of feeling that people have delivering no no concern on both of these fronts no ability to even perform and he's kind of genuine concern for the well-being of other. Oil and it is making some of the banal aspects of Biden's campaign. Like what if we just had a decent man who says reasonable things in response to crisis seemed really meaningful to a lot of people.

3 (4m 26s):
Well, I think we've talked about how Trump's drop the ball time and again since the beginning of the pandemic but we haven't actually spoken about Biden much at all since this all started. So why don't you just catch us up what exactly has Joe Biden been doing? Since he went into quarantine, we had this kind of eerie final debate between Biden and Bernie

1 (4m 49s):
Sanders. We come together tonight at an extraordinary time in our country when people are worried about far more than just presidential politics where the National Emergency because of the devastating Global pandemic of coronavirus when she was just the two of them and it was in a sort

3 (5m 4s):
of socially distant manner. There's a little awkward as I guess it would be it was strange then Biden. We've have seen him since then primarily from the basement of his house in Delaware where he has been recording occasional videos dropping in on some media appearances. Some of which have gone. Well some of which have not gone. So well, we're going to take a question now from Maureen Jenkins Maureen you are unmuted. Maureen we're ready there. We also launched a podcast Matthew just like you and me.

3 (5m 45s):
He's got a potty we don't like to talk about the podcast because that's the competition, you know, and he has struggled to gain attention because there's an asymmetry between the president of the United States and a Challenger in a moment of national crisis, right Trump used to do these daily covid press conferences. That would be carried on television binding is trying to get attention. He's making Videos welcome all of you to a family town hall on covid-19 with Vice President Biden. Dr. Jill Biden and former Surgeon General. Dr. Mirth. She's making statements. He's doing media appearances

1 (6m 20s):
Vice President. Joe Biden. Thank you so much for being a guest on our show at home edition. I can see you're at home work somewhere. Where are you? Right now? I'm in Wilmington Delaware and my Recreation would home they set up a makeshift Studio here. I I'm just getting used to it. You're very used to not a

3 (6m 40s):
ton of people are seeing them but you know Trump's numbers start going down by December start going up and he is putting out plans for how to deal with the

1 (6m 49s):
pandemic first. We're going to make sure that testing is widely available and free because we learned early on there was a fear of people that if I go get a test, is it going to cost me all this money? How can I pay for it? What will I do and free but available and that everyone who needs a test? Get

3 (7m 9s):
it. He's also fortunate in that Ron klain, who was his chief of staff when he was vice president who was a very high-ranking member of Biden's Inner Circle. He also happened to have served as an ebola Czar late in the Obama Administration. So he's got a key staffer a trusted adviser was one of the most knowledgeable people in America about pandemic response type issues. So, you know, my name is there he's able to put out calls he wants to use the defense production act to mobilize great. More personal protective equipment he is supportive of delivering more Aid to State local government budgets and he is also just he's standing with science. He is wearing masks.

3 (7m 49s):
He is talking about things in a serious way staying on point staying focused and he looks a little invisible to some people who are critical of him. But to those who are paying attention, he's starting to give us a taste of what normal presidenting, you know would look like And have reassuring that might be. How does this translate after the death of George Floyd? I know Joe is supposed to travel to Houston today to meet with George Floyd's family. How is he addressed the protests and demands and the black lives matter movement Cheeto African-Americans are Biden's political base.

3 (8m 31s):
That's who carried him to victory in the Democratic Party primary and his ties to the sort of African-American political establishment on a personal level have been very To sort of his success and to enter his sort of life and career, you know and Nuance is that the protest movement black lives matter is very much a movement of a younger cohort of African-American activists who are not necessarily share their Elders view of Biden personally or of politics, but the fact that Biden is a white politician who has such close ties to the black community.

3 (9m 10s):
There's a close political Bishop with the black community lets him do the sort of symbolic healing stuff that people like to see from leaders in times like this. Like what Trump

1 (9m 23s):
can't do the best way to Bear loss and pain to turn it into that anger and anguish in the purpose. And America's know what our purpose is as a nation. It has to be guided. As to be guided

3 (9m 43s):
it has been catching some criticism about how he's approached race and especially policing in the past in his political career will any of that stick to him next to Donald Trump? I mean, I think it's a tough one, you know Trump had a strategy going for sort of a one-two punch of a message to Black America one was to brag about her African American unemployment was at an all-time low, which was true. We've created

1 (10m 10s):
1.3 million new. jobs for African Americans black American unemployment has reached an all-time low in the history of our country. It's the best best we've ever been given was

3 (10m 26s):
to hit Biden for some of his tough-on-crime stuff from the 1990s and the third was to note that he signed the bipartisan First Step act and so, you know Trump was going to be the Prokop candidate because he has that constituency lockdown while also suggesting to younger African-Americans in particular that maybe the I'll talk I'm on some of these racial justice issues the killing of George Floyd the subsequent protests the brutality of the police in addressing. Some of the protesters has all made it more difficult for Trump to run a campaign that's based on pure trolling, you know, you kind of have to pick a side here.

3 (11m 8s):
And the fact is that while Biden's record is not free of anything that a Criminal Justice Reform or could complain about it's great. Clear what side Trump is on and what side Biden is on? So it's quite a more simplified situation politically. More with Matthew in the minute. I'm Sean Rama's for him. It's today explained.

3 (11m 58s):
It's Monday. Maybe you went to the grocery store over the weekend with your mask on your gloves and you got your food and you brought it back and you were super cautious because all the covid and everything, that's still happening. But what if you didn't have to do all that what if your groceries just showed up at your door and you had a bunch of meals ready to go that life of course is possible because the sun Basket Sun basket hooks you up with healthy delicious meals every single week. They deliver a box. Loaded with pre-portioned Organic ingredients right to your door. So you can throw the meals together whenever you're hungry. That's a great time to eat. I'm told and they're easy to prepare you can go from unboxing to eating and as little as 15 minutes right now son basket is offering $35 off your order when you go to some basket.com explained and enter the promo code explained that check out that his son basket.com explain and enter the promo code explain to check out for five dollars off your

1 (12m 56s):
order I'm Sally Greenberg executive director of the national consumers League last year NCL launched consumers for safe CBD in response to the proliferation of untested unregulated CBD products in the marketplace as we all navigate a new normal and it's the covid-19 crisis We are continuing our efforts to help keep you safe and informed there are unfortunately a number of unscrupulous CBD manufacturers and stores that falsely promote medical benefits of CBD products many are taking Advantage of consumers fear and anxiety during this crisis claiming CBD can help boost immunity against and even treat covid-19.

1 (13m 38s):
We need the FDA to stop those making false medical claims and encourage further testing of CBD to a we made during science based treatments to Consumers. Learn more at for safe CBD dot-org again. That's the number for saf ECB D dot o-- r-- g-- paid for by the national consumers League

3 (14m 4s):
Matthew we know Biden's doing well in the polls, but with so much going on in the country. How does he get people to care about his platform? What even is his platform? Yeah, Define platform is one of the weirdest things because the policy conversation around binding in the primary consist, exclusively of people talking about what he doesn't favor

1 (14m 25s):
Senator Biden your plan will keep and allow insurance companies to remain with status quo. Doing business as usual and that's going to be about jacking up co-pays jacking up to some people it will still be the same

3 (14m 35s):
Biden wants to double the federal minimum wage. He wants to essentially quadruple the amount of federal housing assistance to low-income families. He wants to Triple federal spending on poor schools and wants to spend a trillion dollars on climate Solutions. He wants to set new higher standards for emissions things like that. He has, you know a suite of agenda items. Eames going back to before the protests to address Criminal Justice Reform ranging from D scheduling marijuana at the federal level to bringing back Obama era oversight of departments that there were complaints about to creating Grant programs to sort of create Financial incentives for cities to adopt reform agendas things like that.

3 (15m 20s):
Then on Healthcare. He wants to create a public option that should lower costs for people. He wants to change how the ACA subsidies are benchmarked which like I can see people falling asleep when you talk about that. But what it means is lower premiums and deductibles. So, you know, it's out there right? The Hallmark of the Biden policy agenda is that he has tried to avoid stuff that is unpopular at that sometimes means avoiding things that capture the imagination in a big way, but it is a lot of things that would deliver a lot of concrete help particularly to lower-income people. Yeah, I mean Does he have a plan for how to turn this economy around I guess the stock market is doing well, but people are going to be hurting worse and worse.

3 (16m 6s):
No. Yes, I mean the economic recovery, but I don't want to say that he doesn't have a plan but he is trying to not get in the way of congressional Democrats house Democrats have passed their three trillion dollar Heroes act which would give more money directly into the pockets of almost. Everybody would extend bonus unemployment insurance benefits would give a lot of money to State and local. Government says of its three main pillars. Then there's like a million small things, you know Biden is supportive of that law. If he was president today, he would be trying to get that enacted and signed I think find his wisely tried to avoid saying exactly what he thinks the situation will be in January, but he was kind of the point person on stimulus implementation in the early Obama administration years and you know, he's very proud of that work Nancy Pelosi was the Speaker of the House back then.

3 (17m 1s):
So I think there's not a ton of daylight between them or you know, a radical re change in thinking that we should expect basically if he was President, you would put a lot more Federal money into existing programs and into people's pockets. Hmm. How does he draw attention and excitement to his campaign when we're like in a crisis on top of a crisis, it feels like in these moments so much attention is afforded the president and of course President isn't really doing much with that attention constructively one obvious thing seems like he could announce the VP candidate and then make some news. Yeah VP candidate would make some news but I think that they are not going to try anything too drastic as long as they are up in the in the polls.

3 (17m 49s):
I mean campaigns who are winning don't change directions radically, and I think he clearly feels he is getting enough attention to have a nice lead. He is trying to raise money right now. Now, you know Trump has a huge War chest. I think one thing he is worried about is getting buried in dollars and you know doesn't want to let that happen, but I think to some level one of the implicit Promises of Biden ism is that you can have a president who is not in your face on the news all day every day making trouble making waves and he is content to sort of live that ethos.

1 (18m 28s):
And so for all the people who

3 (18m 29s):
like, oh man that presidential race, no one's even talking about it. It's irrelevant. You would say actually it's going fine because that one guy who's not a total nightmare is actually winning. It's traditionally been the case that people don't focus in on elections in a super duper way until they are much closer than they are now Trump kind of upset the apple cart and turned electoral politics into an all-day everyday story for people. Then the pandemic the protests have sort of focus on Trump even more but also on the election a little bit less, so, you know, I don't know exactly how that all kind of nuts out.

1 (19m 8s):
But I mean, I do think that you know, what fighting is trying to tell you is normalcy not in the

3 (19m 13s):
sense that there will be no policy change, but in the sense that most days most people maybe won't need to think about National politics that much sounds dreamy. Hmm. Thanks, Matthew. Thank you.