0 (0s):
Coming up On today explained. President Biden spoke from Israel today after meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. He said, among other things, Israel has the right to defend itself and the US will help Israel

1 (12s):
My message to any state or any other hostile actor thinking about attacking Israel remains the same as it was a week ago. Don't, don't, don't.

0 (23s):
Biden also said, based on information he's seen, an errant rocket fired by a terrorist group from Gaza caused the devastation at a hospital in Gaza City yesterday. Gaza's Health Ministry blames Israel for that incident. Biden also urged Israel to be cautious.

1 (40s):
The vast majority of Palestinians are not Hamas. Hamas does not represent the Palestinian people.

0 (48s):
We have news of Biden's. Visit Coming up next

PhRMA (1m 0s):
And here's your prescription. I know just the pharmacy to get this filled. Who are you? A pharmacy benefit manager. A middleman your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to. Why Can't I go to a pharmacy in my neighborhood? Because I make more money When you go to a pharmacy I own. No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma

0 (1m 32s):
You're listening to today explained. It's been 11 days since Hamas attacked Israel killing civilians and taking hostages. Israel's retaliation has created a humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza. Can diplomacy work at this point? Today we're gonna ask people who are familiar with such negotiations. Aaron David Miller is a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment who served in both Republican and Democratic presidential administrations as the Middle East analyst, advisor and negotiator. I asked him, what is President Biden's objective on this trip?

8 (2m 9s):
I think there are three objectives. Number one is to demonstrate to the people of Israel traumatized and lacking, I think in their own view of their own leadership, to to demonstrate a measure of hope and support for the Israelis.

1 (2m 25s):
I come to Israel with a single message. You're not alone. You are not alone as long as the United States stands and we will stand forever, we'll not let you ever be alone.

8 (2m 37s):
She's already started by meeting with the families of first responders and hostages. The second objective complicated by the fact that the Arab Summit in Aman was postponed, has sort of been short circuited because he need, he can press the Israelis on the need for a stable and predictable humanitarian corridor to surge humanitarian assistance in badly needed communities and displaced Palestinians in Southern Gaza. but he cannot have an opportunity right now to talk to Abdu Fati directly in person in Ahman. And I think that's unfortunate. The other reality is because of the attack on the Al Lale Arab Hospital in Gaza, there are demonstrations throughout the region.

8 (3m 25s):
Anger is surging and the visit because he cannot see America's Arab partners, Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian authority seems to be an Israel only trip. And given the anger generated by the attack and I, and I must say the president must have received information because he made a statement that basically said that it was his understanding that the Israelis were not responsible.

1 (3m 49s):
I was deeply saddened and outraged by the explosion at the hospital in Gaza yesterday. And based on what I've seen, it appears as though it was done by the other team. Not, not you,

8 (4m 1s):
But the perception on the Arab Street and in the Arab world and the Muslim world is that the Israelis were responsible for this. And no denial and no explanation by the United States is going to address that problem. So that creates an optic problem for the administration going forward. And finally, the third and hardest objective was to sit with the Prime Minister in his war cabinet, to press them, to question them on the issue of the ground campaign. What are its objectives? What are the means that Israel's disposal to carry it out? What are the complications? And of course what happens the day after? And the President has already added to his preacher natural support of Israel over the last week.

8 (4m 43s):
Additional points on, on proportionality, the need to adhere to the rules of of war, the need to avoid civilian casualties and the, and the need to avoid Reoccupying Gaza I, my own sense now whether it's been a factor in the delay, Israeli in decision has been a factor in delay. The Biden visit will now almost certainly delay the ground campaign. I'm beginning to think that the massive ground campaign that the Israelis have promised, the mobilization and their response may not be that massive ground campaign. What would take its place? I'm not sure, but there's clearly a degree of indecision and I suspect the president will seek to try to clarify what the Israelis intend to do in the days and weeks ahead.

0 (5m 36s):
Why is it important for me to clarify what the Israelis intend to do in the days and weeks ahead? Is that part of a plan to deescalate this war?

8 (5m 43s):
It's a fascinating question. I think he would like to, but I don't think we reached the point where the president's gonna say to the Prime Minister, it would be much better for the US Israeli relationship, our interests, my personal relationship with you and the region if you didn't do this. I think the line of questioning will lead to an effort to try to get the Israelis to think through the consequences of what it is they intend to do, how complex it is, how difficult it is. Because in many respects, Joe Biden and Israel now sandwiched between the savage, brutal Hamas, terror surge, the Israeli blockade against Gaza, the punishing airstrikes, and on one hand, possibility of a massive ground campaign against Hamas on the other.

8 (6m 37s):
The president is going to be identified with this operation. I think he understands that he's put himself firmly in the Israeli camp. I think he is pressing to get them to understand the consequences and the implications of what the Israelis could do. I do not believe, and I could be wrong, that he's exploring alternatives in any detail to such a ground campaign. I'm getting the sense, my own sense untethered from any context with the government of Israel or the Biden administration, that there is growing sense of delay and uncertainty on the part of the Israelis themselves about what it is they're going to do.

8 (7m 24s):
And then the question becomes, if there is no massive unprecedented ground campaign, what do the Israelis intend to do? And I think this is a question that it's impossible to answer, and I may be wrong, but clearly we're in the week two. I suspect there will be no major ground campaign in the wake of the President's departure. I think that would be a mistake and would further tie the President to what the Israelis are going to do. I don't think there's an answer to your question.

0 (7m 56s):
President Biden was as, as you know, as we said, he was supposed to meet with the Palestinian Authority, president Mahmud Abbas. He was also supposed to meet with the leaders of Jordan and Egypt. Now, after the hospital was hit, as you said, those leaders canceled an in-person meeting. How significant is that and what could it mean here?

8 (8m 16s):
I think it's unfortunate because he needs to have conversations. Those are three key partners, Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority as weak and dysfunctional as the Palestinian Authority is, it is still the address. It is the address for Israel. It's the address for the international community, the Palestinian address, and it's the address for US relations with the Palestinians. So the Palestinian dimension of this and the, and the Palestinian authorities role here right now is marginal. But as the days and weeks proceed with or without a ground campaign, if the United States is going to be more deeply involved in the, the Palestinian issue, and I suspect it, it will be, it has to be.

8 (8m 59s):
Now the Palestinian authority for one of any other address or partner is going to have to play a greater role. And Mr. Biden has a stake in further legitimizing it. There has to be Arab State participation and Mr. Biden's maintaining contacts with these partners is, is is critically important.

0 (9m 22s):
What are the risks for President Biden in taking this trip in being there in Israel?

8 (9m 28s):
Physical risks, obviously, which Secret Services concerned about, he's been to Ukraine, which I think is a far more fraught and vulnerable security risk. But I think that'll be fine. I frankly, if the president can't figure out a way to deliver on the humanitarian issue, which is complicated, there's only one crossing point now through Rafa in which aid can surge in. And that situation is complicated by Egypt's interests, Hamas' interests, and Israel's interests. But at a minimum, I think he has to deliver on the humanitarian to create the stable corridor of assistance to Gaza. That's the key objective, frankly, I suspect in, in terms of the risk category, it's only the optic, the perception that he's visiting the region but only going to Israel.

8 (10m 19s):
And that's not Mr. Biden's fault or responsibility. He intended quite correctly to meet with the Arab partners in Aman. That's not going to happen. That would be the only optic problem.

0 (10m 31s):
Aaron Leslie, this region has been troubled for generations. You were an advisor to secretaries of state in multiple presidential administrations. You worked at the State Department for years. Does this moment feel different to you at all? You

8 (10m 44s):
Know, I was in Jerusalem in 1973 on October 6th. And the same sense of vulnerability of trauma, the intelligence failure, the fact that the Middle East would never be the same again in 73 i I was right. Within six years of that trauma, Egypt and Israel would sign a full treaty of peace. So out of trauma came hope. 20 years later, September 13th, 1993, I'm sitting on the White House law and watching an amazement as Bill Clinton bin Yaser AFA signed the Oslo course thinking wrongly in a galactic misjudgment, that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict had reached a turning point and had become irreversible in its momentum toward a negotiated solution.

8 (11m 43s):
Well, in that case, hope turned to trauma. So I would say two things. The arc of history is long and it bends in very strange and very unpredictable ways. Number one and number two, every breakthrough in this conflict, whether it was the 73 war that produced the Egyptian Israeli Peace Treaty, whether it was the Madrid Peace Conference, which I part of a small team, helped former Secretary of State Baker Fashion in October of 1991, was proceeded by Saddam's invasion of Kuwait and the first Iraq war, the Oslo Accords and the Israeli Jordanian peace treaty grew out of the first ada where the Israelis made a decision.

8 (12m 33s):
Prime Minister Rabin that there was no military solution to the Palestinian problem. Every agreement in these conflict zones came out of terror, insurgency, and war. And you could only hope we're in a long dark tunnel. Now you can only hope if pastors prologue that the pain involved on both sides will create the kind of urgency that will lead to some new opening, some new point of departure. But it's crucial to make sure that the pain, which is why people act in some respects, creates urgency, is accompanied by the prospects of gain.

8 (13m 23s):
It is the pain plus gain that give rise to breakthroughs in the Arab-Israeli conflict. So I never say never. I would only hope somewhere amidst all this, the horror, the violence, and the tragedy of what we're watching will come a new sort of opening to put Israelis and Palestinians on a different course

0 (13m 56s):
That was Aaron. David Miller, he's a Middle East analyst, Coming up the view from where President Biden isn't going.

SimpliSafe (14m 17s):
Support for today. Explain comes from simple safe. It's October, which means it's the beginning of the end, the end of the year. To be specific, sorry to spook you so much spookiness. This time of year before your life goes into overdrive for the holidays, you can give yourself some peace of mind by protecting your home with a brand new sim safe home security system for 40% off. According to SimpliSafe, they have a comprehensive protection system for your whole home. With advanced sensors that detect break-ins and home disasters like fires and floods. There's new 24 7 live guard protection. It comes with a smart alarm wireless indoor camera. It lets monitoring agents see and speak to intruders and deter them in real time while calling for help. It's all about deterrence, folks. For a limited time, you can save 40% on any new system with a Fast Protect plan. you can visit simpl safe.com/today, explained that simpl safe.com/today explained. There's no safe like simpl safe

PhRMA (15m 31s):
And here's your prescription. I know just the pharmacy to get this filled. Who are you? A pharmacy benefit manager, a middleman your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to. Why Can't I go to a pharmacy in my neighborhood Because I make more money When you go to a pharmacy I own, No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

0 (16m 3s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King. The leaders of Egypt Jordan and the Palestinian Authority canceled their meetings with President Biden after the El Ali hospital in Gaza City was struck yesterday. We're gonna look at what these Arab countries want with Middle East analyst, Michael Waheed Hanna.

10 (16m 20s):
I'm the US program director at the International Crisis Group. Most of my professional life has been spent working on the politics and security dynamics of the region and and US foreign policy there. Prior to getting into the policy world, I was a lawyer and focused on international law and spent a lot of time prior to that studying in the region.

0 (16m 44s):
Over the last few years, countries in the Middle East have moved to normalize diplomatic relations with Israel. Where did things stand before Hamas attacked Israel on October 7th?

10 (16m 56s):
Yeah, I mean, during the tail end of the Trump administration, we saw these major normalization agreements,

11 (17m 3s):
Israel, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain will establish embassies, exchange ambassadors and begin the cooperate and work together so strongly to cooperate as partners across. In

10 (17m 17s):
More recent months, the big discussion has been about extending that normalization to Sadi Arabia. And of course at the heart of this question as well was this issue of Palestine. Sadi Arabia had offered something called the Arab Peace Initiative, which was effectively an idea that if Israel and the Palestinians came to a two-state solution, that then recognition and normalization would happen in the region by all the Arab states. And so there's been a lot of discussion of late about what it would take for Sadi Arabia now to normalize relations with Israel to hear Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel speak in recent months.

10 (18m 2s):
He has really assured everybody in public that Sadi Arabia really would only require symbolic steps.

12 (18m 9s):
We are at the cusp of an even more dramatic breakthrough, an historic peace between Israel and Sadi Arabia. Such a peace will go a long way to ending the Arab-Israeli conflict.

10 (18m 25s):
And of course, events of the past days have blown asunder a lot of the assumptions that undergirded this diplomatic effort. The idea that the region had kind of leapfrogged ahead of the issue of Palestine and not be held hostage to the lack of a resolution of this conflict to push forward other interests.

0 (18m 50s):
Where do things stand today after 11 days of war?

10 (18m 54s):
I think it's worth pausing and thinking about the regional reaction, particularly after the outrage in the region seen after the bombing of the Italy hospital in Gaza.

14 (19m 11s):
A whole region is at the brink of falling into the abyss that this new cycle of death and destruction is pushing us towards the threat of this war. Expanding is real. The cost this will bring on all of us is too much to bear.

10 (19m 27s):
Regional mood has shifted. I think it's, it's, you know, regardless of attribution, and this will be a point of very serious contestation, but in a sense that sort of the, the region has made a judgment about the war, about its trajectory, about what it is hoping to see. And, and so the reason I say that is because we saw sort of unanimity in approach. You had very condemnatory statements coming from Egypt Jordan, but also the u a E and Sadi. That is a judgment about the war itself and about their fears about its direction, perhaps more so than attribution because obviously there's deep skepticism in the region about the Israeli account for what happened.

10 (20m 13s):
But the fact that the statements came out, the fact that the statements looked like they did, I think is reflective of this shift in regional mood. And that shift might actually create real constraints on Israel's freedom of operation and perhaps the kind of scope of military offensive that it might be able to launch. Now

0 (20m 39s):
President Biden is in Israel today. He was supposed to, on this trip, meet with the president of Egypt, Abdel Fati. That meeting was canceled yesterday after the hospital in Gaza City was bombed. And we hear instead they may speak on the phone, what does Biden want from Egypt?

10 (20m 58s):
Yeah, he was slated to meet with King Abdullah, king of Jordan, Abdu Fati, the president of Egypt and Muhammad Abbe, the head of the Palestinian Authority they were to meet and man, and of course it's not surprising that after yesterday's incident and what looks to be a pretty horrific civilian toll, m best at first, and the others later pulled the plug on on this meeting, it's reflective of, of the strain on relations with the United States seen as the sort of key backer of Israel and how volatile the moment is. And I'm sure there will be multiple communications in the coming days with these leaders, including President cei, because humanitarian access is dependent at this point because of the Israeli stance on coming to an agreement on the Rafa border crossing.

10 (21m 54s):
So, you know, there has been a lot of talk about opening up the Egyptians contest that it's closed, but they say that it is non-functional because of Israeli airstrikes and the lack of full agreement on how the crossing would operate. But clearly there is a big gap between what the United States has announced on humanitarian access and assistance and what we see on the ground. There is not a functioning border crossing now, and it will be key in the coming days because the situation really is quite dire inside Gaza. And the Israelis are not going to let up on their siege that there is a way to create a somewhat normalized functioning of Rafa to allow humanitarian supplies into Gaza, to let American citizens and other foreign nationals out of Gaza and at some point to bring out injured for medical treatment.

10 (22m 52s):
And potentially this could be a conduit for hostage diplomacy around the Israeli and other hostages held by Hamas in, in Gaza. So I think that's going to be the main focus at the moment. But as I mentioned, I think the other thing that has shifted now after the hospital bombing is the regional attitude toward the war regional patients with where it is going. It seems very clear to me that, you know, this kind of coordinated regional response moving in lockstep, in atory fashion, you know, is meant to send a signal to the Israel and the United States about their fears of where this is going and, and maybe expectations about attempts to, to try to tame this violence and, and eventually bring it to a close.

10 (23m 45s):
There's a lot of anger in the region. There's a lot of Blame placed not just on Israel, but the United States as the kind of prime external backer. And so there is risk here, very serious risk for the United States in being associated with whatever comes next.

0 (24m 4s):
Could diplomacy still work here? Michael is deescalation, which seems far away. Is deescalation still a possibility?

10 (24m 17s):
It's a question for US leaders and European leaders. I don't think the Israeli political classes in any mood for deescalation based on the, the kind of nature of the attacks and their sense of vulnerability and humiliation. But in a sense it falls to the United States and others to counsel wisdom at a time of high emotion

1 (24m 43s):
Justice must be done. But I caution this while you feel that rage don't be consumed by it.

10 (24m 52s):
So that, that's the big question for the United States. Now it's a question for President Biden, particularly with the, the regional visit that so tightly links him personally in the United States, more generally with this Israeli military operation.

1 (25m 10s):
What sets us apart from the terrorists is we believe in the fundamental dignity of every human life. Israeli, Palestinian, Arab, Jew, Muslim, Christian, everyone.

10 (25m 22s):
And clearly we see the horrific kinds of violence that are almost certainly going to multiply if this war continues on its current trajectory. And if the Israelis launch what could be a very prolonged, protracted, and bloody ground invasion.

0 (25m 45s):
That was Michael Waheed Hanna of the International Crisis Group. We're gonna continue to cover this war as it unfolds. And if you have something that you want explained, we'd love to hear from you. you can call us at (202) 643-0314 and just know that if you leave us a message, we may play your message on the air. Today's episode was produced by Haddi Mawajdeh and Amanda Lewellyn. We had help from John Ehrens and our editor is Amina El Saddi. Our engineers were David Herman and Patrick Boyd and our fact checkers. Were Tian Wyn and Isha Artsy. I'm Noel King. It's today explained

15 (26m 48s):
Thanks to Contentful for supporting this episode in today's digital First world content is the customer experience. But to build those experiences, digital teams need an intelligent solution that can keep pace with their business goals. Enter Contentful. A composable content platform empowers digital teams to scale and launch campaigns quickly and efficiently. Their composable content platform makes it easy to create, collaborate, manage, and deliver content across all of your channels. All from one place Contentful, where content drives business momentum. Get started@contentful.com.