2 (1s):
Before we begin this episode of today explain just a reminder that kiwi Co is offering you the chance to try them out for one month for free to redeem the very kind offer. You can go to Kiwi co.com explained Kiko subscriptions delivered Delight throughout the year. Need I say more.

1 (26s):
Here's how the committee will proceed for this hearing. I will make an opening statement and then ranking member Nunez will have the opportunity to make a statement

2 (35s):
Andrew Prokop politics Vox on September 24th, Nancy Pelosi announced a formal impeachment inquiry of President Trump. And today it hit live TV. How did things kick off? So this was the first public Hearing in the Democrats impeachment inquiry and it was held before the Intelligence committee. That means that that committee's chairman Adam Schiff Democrat from California kick things off

1 (1m 2s):
without I now recognize myself to give an opening statement in the impeachment inquiry into Donald J. Trump the 45th president of the United

2 (1m 10s):
States Schiff recapped what we already know about this scandal from the previous closed-door testimony. He laid out a timeline of events shift said if we find that the president of the United States abuse his power and added foreign interference into our elections or

1 (1m 28s):
if you start to condition coerce extort or bribe an ally into conducting investigations to Aid his re-election campaign and did so by withholding official acts White House meeting or hundreds of millions of dollars of needed military aid must we simply get over it

2 (1m 46s):
quoting a white house chief of staff Mick Mulvaney there. He said is this what Americans should now expect from their president if this is not impeachable. On duct. What is

1 (1m 57s):
Benjamin Franklin was asked what kind of a country America was to become? A republic he answered if you can keep it. The fundamental issue raised by the impeachment inquiry into Donald J. Trump is can we keep it?

2 (2m 13s):
How does that contrast with the opening remarks from his Republican counterpart. Devin Nunes newness offered a hodgepodge of conspiracy theories distractions and misleading

1 (2m 27s):
remarks let anyone familiar with the Democrats scorched-earth war against President. Trump would not be surprised to see all the typical signs. That this is a carefully orchestrated media. Smear campaign.

2 (2m 41s):
He criticized his Democratic counterparts for trying to investigate Trump and just did a sort of grand tour of all of the scattered and varied points that the president's Defenders have made here

1 (2m 60s):
what we witness today is a televised theatrical performance stage by The Democrats Ambassador Taylor and mr. Kent. I like to welcome you here. I'd like to congratulate you for passing the Democrats Star Chamber auditions held for the last week's in the basement of the Capitol.

2 (3m 20s):
So there are two people here to testify today. Who were they? So the Democrats called as their first Witnesses William Taylor, who is the top us Diplomat in Ukraine the chargee d'affaires at the u.s. Embassy. I'm

1 (3m 35s):
neither a career member of the Foreign Service nor of the Civil Service. I'm nonpartisan and have been appointed to my positions. Every president from President Reagan to President Trump

2 (3m 45s):
and also George Kent the deputy assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian

1 (3m 51s):
Affairs. I have served proudly as a non-partisan career Foreign Service Officer for more than 27 years under five presidents three Republican and two

2 (4m 2s):
Democrat why these two guys first I think the Democrats picked them first because one they're both very eloquent to ooh, they are friendly Witnesses. That's not to say that their political but they are happy to be there and testifying about what they saw and heard unfolding over the course of the summer involving this Scandal Taylor specifically had a front row seat to a lot of the pressure that was being placed on the ukrainians. He was involved in text messages with key figures in the inquiry like Ambassador Gordon Sunderland and Damn, he also expressed his concerns in real time famously writing to Sandlin in a text message.

1 (4m 49s):
I think it's crazy to withhold security assistance for help with the political

2 (4m 54s):
campaign. Now George Kent. He had some knowledge of some of what was going down this summer, but what he really brought was more of a broader interpretive narrative for what was going on in Ukraine and also a bit of a Fence of Vice President Joe Biden Kent said that contrary to what the Republicans were alleging. As far as he knew there was nothing improper about what Vice President Biden did involving Ukraine policy back during the Obama Administration. I suppose these testimonies today presented an opportunity to take this impeachment inquiry to new places to reveal any new information did either of them take the opportunity to do that.

2 (5m 42s):
I didn't actually expect much new information to be revealed just because these two men have both testified behind closed doors extensively and we've seen their transcripts. However, Bill Taylor gave me a bit of a surprise in his own opening statement. He revealed new information. He had been given just last week. So this took place on the day after Trump's now Infamous phone call with the Ukrainian president, which would make it. Li 26

1 (6m 12s):
while Ambassador Vulcan and I volcker and I visited the front it's member of my staff accompanied Ambassador Sunland investors soundin met with mr. Your Bak following that meeting in the presence of my staff at a restaurant besser Stalin called President Trump and told him of his meetings and Keefe. The member of my staff could hear President Trump on the phone asking Ambassador silent about the investigations Messer Sandlin told President Trump. The ukrainians were ready to move forward. Following the call with President Trump. The member of my staff asked Ambassador Solomon what President Trump thought about Ukraine Master song and responded that President Trump cares more about the investigations of Biden which Giuliani was pressing for

2 (6m 58s):
was that a big deal? This is a really big deal and I think it's significant because it suggests that Trump was very personally involved in what Sandlin was telling the ukrainians now, we had that whole quasi transcript of Trumps call with the President so we knew Trump was demanding these investigations, but you know, there's been a lot of testimony about what Gordon sandland was saying and doing to the ukrainians that Sunland was telling them if you want your white house meeting you have to commit to these investigations. If you want to get your military aid, you have to commit to these investigations and there was some ambiguity about just you know was somnolent freelancing or was he He acting at Trump's behest and this would certainly suggest that he was in close contact with Trump and he was carrying out Trump's wishes and doing all this and all of this happened before anyone even started asking questions from these two witnesses.

2 (8m 1s):
Yes, Taylor dropped that bombshell toward the very end of his lengthy opening statement. Okay. Well after the break the Wilkins fight back I just got back to DC from doing our today explained live show in Toronto Canada. And it reminded me that someone had reached out to me from Ottawa Canada to say that her dad had become a huge queue eco fan and he had gotten into their adult Cuba Coke rates and I was like, whoa, there's adult kiwi Coke rates and she was like, yaha and my dad just did his first one and he hasn't even realized yet that it's his subscription.

2 (8m 55s):
I can't wait for him to find more because he loves it. And so did my mom and then she sent a photo of what looks to be like her dad and who knows maybe her son, but definitely there's like a 70 to 80 year age difference between these two human beings and they're both playing with what looks to be like a kiwi Co pinball machine and I was touched and I was like can't wait to talk to Dad and she was like, let's wait until he realizes this is a subscription because he's gonna flip out when more of these star coming. And I was like sure so if you're listening today explain listener from Ottawa, Canada, whose dad and mom and maybe small child are really into kiwi Co would love to talk for the rest of you out there kiwi co.com explained the first month's free try and get to know the possibilities because evidently they are endless.

2 (9m 55s):
Andrew before any Representatives ask questions. It felt very courtroom Ian there. It seemed like two lawyers were leading the inquiry who were those guys. So these were staff attorneys for each side Daniel Goldman for the Democrats and Steve caster for the Republicans. Goldman was pretty disciplined in making Taylor and Kent to get their concerns on the Curd for everything they saw transpire.

1 (10m 23s):
Have you ever seen another example of foreign aid conditioned on the personal or political interests of the president of the United States? No. Mr. Goldman of

2 (10m 35s):
not Castor was a bit more muddled. He it often wasn't really clear what he was trying to get at

1 (10m 43s):
and the information published by a search a lifestyle shenko former Ukrainian investigative journalist, and then he was a member of the Ain't about the manafort black Ledger's in August of 2016. Even the very day that was published. Mr. Manafort resign from the campaign, correct? I don't know. Mr.

2 (11m 5s):
Kaster, and after these two staffers things sort of fell into a familiar pattern who was leading the questioning from the Republicans. So Republicans clearly believe their most qualified questioner was Jim Jordan representative from Ohio who attempted to really attack and aggressively try to debunk what the Witnesses were saying one point. Jordan kept trying to make is that built Later testified that he came to believe that hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid to Ukraine was being held up because they wouldn't agree to these investigations Trump wanted and Jordan cat saying well weren't you wrong about this?

2 (11m 50s):
Because the Trump Administration did release the aid without Ukraine making any Public Announcement about the investigations.

1 (11m 59s):
The whole point was you had a clear understanding that Aid will not Get released unless there's a commitment not maybe not. I think the aid might happen in it's my hunch is going to get released you use Clear language clear understanding and commitment and those two things didn't happen. So you had to be wrong. Mr. I was not wrong about what I told you which is what I heard. That's all I've said. I've told you what I heard and that's the point what you heard did not happen. It didn't

2 (12m 29s):
happen. Didn't that Aid only get released once the whistle. Filed his complaint. Yeah, it's still a little murky about why the aid was released but there are a number of things going on in the days before it was released the Inspector General for the intelligence committee had written a letter to Capitol Hill saying there had been this whistleblower complaint that was being withheld from them Adam Schiff had announced an investigation into Rudy giuliani's influence on Ukraine policy. And also John Bolton the National Security advisor resigned so so it may have been released because the heat was on because it was threatening to get out and break into the public what Trump had been trying to do to the ukrainians what other arguments whether Republicans making so they kept harping on the idea that Taylor and Kent didn't have any first-hand contact with President Trump over

1 (13m 26s):
this you have not had any contact with the president. I'd states that correct. That's correct sir, Miss Taylor. Mr. Kent. Have you had any contact? President States. I have not so not only no conversations with the president. I'd say it's about Ukraine. You've not had any contact with the president and States, correct? That's correct. Okay, so you both know that this impeachment inquiry is about the president I'd say it's don't you I mean the man that neither one of you have had any contact with your the first up

2 (13m 53s):
witnesses that is also a bit of a distraction because a lot of the witnesses who did have firsthand contact with Trump on this topic. Eric Mick Mulvaney, Mike Pompeo, they have refused to show up and testify and Republicans don't seem particularly eager to have them show up and testify. I would say the exception here has been Ambassador Gordon Sunland who did have a lot of firsthand contact with Trump on this topic. He did testify but he is facing problems. He's already had to go in and update his testimony once now the new information Taylor.

2 (14m 33s):
Presented today from his staff member raises further questions about the honesty of sandilands testimony and Salman's lawyer said that you know, this is something that silent will address when he shows up for his own public testimony next week. So this is a big moment for the Republicans these these testimonies have been happening behind closed doors and that's been a recurring complaint and today for the first time ever. They were happening online. Live TV in front of the whole world and the best arguments. They were making War there's no quid pro quo. Well, they threw in all sorts of points that trumps.

2 (15m 14s):
Defenders have been making another one is that the president of Ukraine zalenski said that he didn't feel

1 (15m 21s):
pressured Democrats claim this call demonstrates extortion bribery and a host of other monstrous crimes being committed against President szalinski. Yet president is olinsky himself insist. There was nothing improper whatsoever about the

2 (15m 37s):
conversation and that's true. Zalenski did say that whether he was being totally forthcoming that is not so clear. The u.s. Is very powerful country and zielinski. It's true is not going out in front of the cameras and saying oh my God, I feel like Donald Trump tried to shake me down this summer, but he has his own diplomatic reasons for doing that you mentioned Earlier that William Taylor and George can't are these sort of effective speakers who are willing to talk or Republicans able to Rattle them at all with their lines of questioning Taylor was definitely a little befuddled when some Republicans would throw various conspiracy theories that have been circulating and right-wing media at him and asked him basically, when did you know about this?

2 (16m 26s):
Why didn't you know about this months ago? So at one point the Republican attorney Steve Steve Caster he was talking about how Taylor had discussed an irregular channel of us diplomacy toward Ukraine that involved Gordon Sandlin and involved Rudy Giuliani and Castor said In fairness this this

1 (16m 48s):
irregular channel of diplomacy. It's not as outlandish as it could be is that correct? It's not as outlandish as it could be. Yeah, I agree.

2 (17m 1s):
He seemed to be suggesting. Saying what? Yes, it's possible things could have been more outlandish. It's not as outlandish as it could be but it really goes to the point of how difficult it was for Republicans to make their arguments here.

1 (17m 16s):
Now, there is one witness one witness that they won't bring in front of us. They won't bring in front of the American people. That's the guy who started it all the Whistleblower.

2 (17m 26s):
So at one point in response to various Republican questions about where Is The Whistleblower? Why isn't the Whistleblower testifying representative Peter Welch of Vermont said thank

1 (17m 39s):
you. I say to my colleague I'd be glad to have the person who started it all come in and testify President Trump is welcome to take a seat right there.

2 (17m 51s):
Any word from the president? Is he willing to come testify? Hey doesn't seem particularly eager to participate in the Sham witch-hunt hoax whatever. He's calling it these days. What was he up to today? Do we have any idea who was watching the proceedings Trump said he was too busy to watch the house impeachment hearing. He was meeting with the president of Turkey prison erdogan at the White House and toward the end of the day. He did hold a press conference where he I was asked about

1 (18m 21s):
this. You took it about the Witch Hunt. Is that what you mean? Is that what you're talking about? I hear it's a

2 (18m 25s):
joke, you know, he repeated his longtime arguments that he did nothing wrong and the whole thing is a sham. So the tone has been set for these televised hearings Republicans will defend the president and say he did nothing wrong Democrats are convinced something very bad happened here

1 (18m 49s):
is attempted murder a crime. Attempted murder is a crime is attempted. Robbery a crime. Neither of us is a lawyer, but I think anybody in this room could answer that question think that's right. I'll be I'll go out on a limb and say yes, it is is attempted extortion and bribery a crime. I don't know

2 (19m 8s):
sir. I think Democrats are pretty clear. They're not specifically tipping their hand that they are ready to impeach Trump necessarily, but I think the support is there at this point on the Democratic side once these hearings are over Schiff and his staff are going to write a report about what they learned. It's going to go to the house Judiciary Committee and they will probably draw up articles of impeachment. It's very hard to read shifts opening remarks in any other way. Zen saying that you know, this is a massively important issue. We think Trump did something very very wrong. And if this is not impeachable conduct what is Thanks to Kiwi Co for supporting the show today kiwi Co has this website?

2 (20m 11s):
It is kiwi co.com. If you add a slash explained you get the chance to try them out for one month for free. They want to expose kids to Concepts in science technology engineering math Art and Design but not just kids. Sometimes the parents of those kids. Sometimes the parents of the parents of those kids.