1 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from rise.com rise.com is an all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage when you do a rise.com training. You're going to remember it for the rest of your life. You're going to be writing about your rise.com training in your Memoir. You're going to be talking about your rise.com training in your wedding vows. You're going to be talking to the doctor about rise.com training as your as your partner. Gives birth to your firstborn see why you will love rise dot-coms trainings by starting a free 30-day trial at rise.com today.

1 (44s):
Black lives matter is working according to data from a survey group called Civic support for the movement has risen more in the past few weeks than it has in the past few years a majority of Americans now say they support the movement and it shows just about everywhere. You look Confederate statues are toppling Nascar has banned Confederate flags at races newspapers are holding editors accountable for Own death and even dangerous opinion columns. Tina Fey is pulling the Black Face episodes of 30 Rock from streaming services. Why didn't those exist in the first place cops got canceled after 30 odd years tech companies are walking back there plans for racially biased facial recognition technology that would help police track suspects officers are actually getting arrested and fired for killing black people choke holds are finally being banned schools are getting rid of armed police officers Mitch McConnell is talking about About police reform even are famously racist president signed an executive order on police reform.

1 (1m 47s):
I could go on but you get it. Today on the show. I'm going to talk to Adam server from the Atlantic about why black lives matter is having a lot more success the second time around and how the movement can sustain itself as our attention invariably shifts away from racial Justice we started with what's different this time.

3 (2m 9s):
What surprised me the most is the shift in white public opinion? I think when you go back to 2014 2015 and the the riots and protests in Baltimore and Ferguson in reaction to black men killed by police. Majority of Americans are not supportive of black lives matter, but I think the George Floyd video is obviously very affecting but it's also a coming at a time when you know, a lot of people are out of work or if they still have jobs they are underemployed. We've all Staying at home in the midst of pandemic. I think there's just like a lot of factors that led to this eruption of the main one being this accumulation of evidence that what black Americans are saying about their experience with police is true to a degree that it's difficult for much of White America to say, yeah, there's there's no evidence for

1 (3m 1s):
this and it's not just violent videos this time right? It's Amy Cooper in Central Park. There is an African American man. myself and my dog And I don't want to single out Amy Cooper but it felt like that video struck a very different though important chord for the country.

3 (3m 22s):
I think the significance of the Amy Cooper video is that she expresses overtly something that is sort of only expressed as subtext, which is that a lot of people think that the police exist to protect white people from black people and historically for most of its existence the United States the police were expected to The borders of the color line. So in a way, I think what was affecting about that Cooper video is that she says explicitly I'm going to tell the police that an African-American man is threatening my life and in saying that she expresses an implicit understanding that she knows that the man she's talking to Chris Cooper could possibly be subject to violence possibly fatal violence.

3 (4m 6s):
If the police come under the belief that she a white woman is in danger. That's why that video was so talking to people because it's not just a matter of you know, I think when people use the phrase by privilege, they think of it as an unconscious thing, but he or she is overtly leveraging her social status against the black man who obviously was not threatening her in any way

1 (4m 30s):
would White America have bought in on black lives matter this time around if it weren't for the fact that so many people are at home. So when people are underemployed so many people are seeing these videos and thinking about them in a way that they

3 (4m 43s):
might not have Have the time or the opportunity to do

1 (4m 46s):
you know six years ago?

3 (4m 48s):
I mean, I don't know the answer to that but I will say that you know, when you're talking about unemployment we were talking about covid. These are also problems like police brutality that disproportionately affect Black and Hispanic people. So the George Floyd video is coming not just in a time of rising unemployment not just in a time of pandemic but at a time when those phenomena are disproportionately affecting the people who are also so disproportionately affected by police brutality and I think that there's a kind of shock and anger producing factor of that that shouldn't be under con it

1 (5m 22s):
what is having the buy-in or far more white Americans on black lives matter this time around

3 (5m 28s):
mean I think it's really significant. It indicates a tremendous shift in the political identity of white Americans and I think I'm sorry. My cat is here. That's okay. What's your cat's name? His name is exit. Exit is very happy to be here. So I think the protest indicate that a substantial number of Americans in particular on the left have internalized the principle of anti racism is part of their political identity. I don't know how long that's going to last. I think historically, you know, the demands of the protesters are so reasonable that it's very they feel like they shouldn't be killed by police.

3 (6m 10s):
That's just eminently reasonable and hard to Take issue with historically, you know what has happened in the past is that when civil rights protests start to reach more material concerns integrated schools housing jobs that there tends to be a backlash. So I think we'll see what's going to happen and where this goes, but I do think that when you look back at the history of civil rights protests there has never really been this much white support for what people are going out and doing I mean, obviously Martin Luther King is kind of a secular. Civics ain't in the United States, but he died, you know having being very unpopular among white Americans and as this sort of retroactive Reckoning of what of American public memory to make him a popular figure who United the country, but in fact, he was very divisive.

3 (7m 3s):
So I think it's too early to know what this shift pretends for American politics, but it is absolutely a shift in his absolutely significant.

1 (7m 13s):
And for those who don't remember, I mean how deaf were the ears that black lives matter of fell on last time

3 (7m 21s):
around at least politically. You have to remember that Donald Trump was in part A backlash against black lives matter. Well, you see them marching and you see them on occasion. At least I've seen it where they're essentially calling death to the police and that's not acceptable whether you like them or don't like them that Is not acceptable but I've seen it and you've seen it the perception that he tried to put forth was that Obama had handcuffed the police. He was indulgent of the protesters and rioters and this needed a this needed a strong hand to be put down. And in fact Donald Trump's election was substantially aided by the backlash to the Obama era oversight of police departments, which you know resulted in the police unions going all out for Donald Trump.

3 (8m 12s):
So just to give a little little background on this the aftermath of the Rodney King beating police reformers tucked into the 1994 crime Bill a provision that allowed the Civil Rights division of the justice department to oversee local police departments and make sure that they were not violating the constitution in their policing practices and now the purpose of that because we have about 80 years of government commissions and reports and evidence showing that police brutality against black Americans as a catalyst for urban unrest the thought was You can prevent police brutality you can prevent the unrest and the Obama administration had a more aggressive program of policing Police Department's than any previous administration the initiative more of these investigations than any of their predecessors and there was a big backlash from that from the police unions.

3 (9m 1s):
I mean if you just want to look at Minnesota the president of Minneapolis Police Union, Bob Kroll, who is a big Trump supporter said

1 (9m 8s):
the Obama Administration and the handcuffing and oppression of police was Despicable. All the

3 (9m 16s):
and once Donald Trump took office. One of the first things his attorney general. Jeff sessions did was say we're not going to do these investigations anymore because they're bad for

1 (9m 25s):
morale morale has gone down

3 (9m 28s):
and what that did was it not only blinded the federal government to whether or not go police departments or misbehaving but it basically gave police a green lights say look you can do whatever you want and we're not going to interfere which is something That Trump said overtly in his rhetoric and which was now expressed as policy. Remember Hillary Clinton also had the mothers of the movement the mothers of men and boys who have been killed by police or had been killed in circumstances involving stand your ground

1 (9m 60s):
laws. My name is Geneva reveal Gwen car Lucy Macbeth. My name is Sabrina Fulton and my son was Trayvon Martin

3 (10m 9s):
and there was a backlash to that to I mean before the last few months it was is considered really politically dangerous to criticize police in the way that we're seeing them criticized today because of that shift in public opinion. Now, you're seeing people like Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell or Senator Tom Cotton people who are very conservative acknowledging the existence of racial discrimination and policing and I think some credit to that to that probably Goes to the effort that Tim Scott the senator from South Carolina who's African-American has put into convincing his colleagues that this is a real problem.

3 (10m 54s):
I mean he's spoken out about it many times. He's talked about how he's been stopped by Capitol Police for no reason, but I would have to say that bigger credit goes to the fact that white American of public opinion has shifted so significantly that even the Republicans who have to acknowledge it to knowledge the feelings of their own

1 (11m 14s):
constituencies. White America is finally on board with black lives matter. Now. The name of the game is making sure the country doesn't just forget that black lives matter. That's after the break. You heard me tell you what the top of the show, but I have to tell you again how much you're going to love the trainings provided by rise.com rise.com.

1 (12m 3s):
Once again is an all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage with rides anyone can easily create guides and courses and other training content. You can start from scratch or customized hundreds of pre-built less. He's helpful course templates and gorgeous sample courses to build content even faster. You're going to be talking about this content everywhere you go. You're going to be talking about this content and your Zoom meetings. You're going to be talking about this content at the grocery store. You're going to be talking to yourself about this content in the shower. You're going to be talking to the plants about this content when you're gardening see why you will love the content at Rise.com by starting a free 30-day trial.

1 (12m 51s):
Today at rise.com - today. Have you guys watched 60 in six yet? It's that show on quippy that delivers award winning journalism in just minutes from the team behind the original 60 Minutes on CBS 2 shows for correspondence for different perspectives on the most relevant stories of today and the latest episode of 60 in six ways the pros and cons of using artificial intelligence as a Institute for human interaction correspondent Laurie Segall covers the story of how Society is relying on AI to feel romantic voids overcome depression and cure loneliness as we adapt to an ever-growing isolated World oof sounds heartbreaking you can watch 60 in six weekly on Quimby.

1 (13m 47s):
It's a new streaming app with original short-form shows built to bring you quality entertainment and news to any minute of your day. It's spelled Q UI. Bi and you can download the quippy app now for a two week free trial. Adam was talking about the impact black lives matter is having on the country right now starting with policy President Trump signed something. Will it do anything

3 (14m 22s):
the president's executive order on policing is meaningless. It's cosmetic. It doesn't do anything and that makes sense because the police unions are strong supporters of the president. He went out of his way to earn their support and he has run his presidency essentially. With the rhetorical position that the police can treat people. However, they want to treat

1 (14m 41s):
them. I said, please don't be too nice. Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you're protecting their head, you know, the way you put their hand of like don't hit their head and they just killed somebody don't hit the head I said you can take the hand away. Okay.

3 (15m 2s):
So the president is not going to be a meaningful check on abuses by police on the federal level. Neither party is really willing to move as aggressively on this as activists. Would why would you know, I'm a journalist? I wouldn't purport to tell activist what their goals should be. But neither of the proposals that have been put forward in Congress are particularly aggressive, but the issue is also that there are thousands and thousands of police departments in the United States and Sheriff's departments. So a lot of Form is going to have to happen at the local level where police unions have a tremendous amount of power and influence even in purportedly liberal jurisdictions. I mean you look at New York City Bill de Blasio ran as a police

1 (15m 44s):
performer and he's the only one who will end a stop-and-frisk era that unfairly targets people of color Bill de Blasio

3 (15m 51s):
will be a mayor for every New Yorker no matter

1 (15m 53s):
where they live or what they look like and I say that even if you weren't my dad

3 (15m 59s):
a few weeks ago, he was defending police officers. As who are ramming their cars into protesters. I saw a lot of restraints restraint under very very difficult circumstances and part because the backlash from the police unions was so powerful that he essentially conceded the fight to them. So there's basically two levels at this is going to have to take place on on the federal level and on the state and local level and both of those are going to be a tremendous challenge for activists regardless of who's in office, but I think Democrats tend to be more receptive because they have a Black constituency that is genuinely concerned about police brutality.

1 (16m 36s):
Was this a missed Opportunity by the president? I mean, he clearly cares more about re-election than anything else these days. He could have perhaps scored a win here with his relationship with police. Right? He could have used his relationship with police to benefit the demands of all these protesters right now and actually maybe brokered a deal. It's obvious that

3 (17m 0s):
the Trump Administration. Is that there is a segment of black men voters who are soft support as the Democrats and who might be able to be one over to the president's side. The problem is that the president has an ideological belief in the virtue of police violence. I mean go back decades to the ad he took out calling for the execution of the Central Park five who were falsely accused of a crime. They didn't commit

1 (17m 23s):
when the city warded the men a settlement in 2014 Trump wrote an editorial in The Daily News calling the settlement a disgrace Trump said he still considers. Men again exonerated by the criminal justice system and by DN a-- scientific evidence guilty

3 (17m 38s):
in addition to that because the police are such prominent and important significant supporters of his he would have to defy a constituency that has both ideological and personal resonance for him and I just don't see it happening.

1 (17m 52s):
So instead what are we left with? We're left with 50 state level fights

3 (17m 56s):
for reform

1 (17m 57s):
and hundreds or thousands of local fights

3 (18m 0s):
to yeah. I mean look these fights are already happening. I mean you you activists have already been electing Progressive District Attorneys who have pulled back on enforcing things like marijuana possession laws. So, you know in terms of how they can wield this public support for more significant changes. It's obvious that there is a Groundswell of support out there for the idea that this is a problem that needs to be

1 (18m 23s):
fixed this week. It's Robert E Lee. I noticed that Stonewall Jackson's coming down. I wonder is it George Washington next week? And is it Thomas?

3 (18m 32s):
Jefferson the week after you know you all know you really do have to ask yourself. Where does it

1 (18m 36s):
stop another local

3 (18m 37s):
fight? I want to ask you about is the fight to

1 (18m 40s):
bring down Confederate monuments to ban the Confederate flag at public Gatherings or to remove it

3 (18m 46s):
from you know, State houses and

1 (18m 49s):
to rename parks and military bases. I guess that's less local but named after Confederate soldiers. It doesn't feel quite as immediate perhaps as As as the fight to reform police departments or defund police, but is this the golden opportunity to finally get that done like once and for all perhaps

3 (19m 13s):
I just want to clarify that I think you should be able to waive the Confederate flag at a public gathering. All you want. You have a First Amendment right to be an asshole and no one should be able to take that away from you

1 (19m 24s):
because this is my Heritage my family fought to save their form under this flag who was working that far. My wife's family was it was working the favor who are do you know how much this place prospecting

3 (19m 37s):
the public is filet of the Confederate flag in a political context basically disappears until the Civil Rights Movement. It rises again. So to speak as a way to express Defiance of integration and civil rights, but when you're talking about memorials and statues, these are things that belong in museums these morals and statues come up not right after the Civil War but late in the 19th century and early in the 20th century as sort of monuments to the victory of the south over reconstruction and the re-imposition of white supremacy.

1 (20m 10s):
It has been suggested that we should rename as many as ten of our legendary military bases such as Fort Bragg in North Carolina, Fort Hood in Texas Fort Benning in Georgia. And the list goes on

3 (20m 23s):
the army base is that are named after Confederate generals. I mean, there's just no whitewashing this these are men who betrayed their country in defense of Bondage and after the war some of them became terrorist leaders, they oppose black suffrage. It is ludicrous that we named u.s. Army bases after men who served in an enemy military in a conflict that killed more Americans than any conflict in American history to

1 (20m 49s):
date and how did that happen?

3 (20m 51s):
They are an expression of the South's political of the white South's political power in the American Military is almost half not white at this point, you know, you are recruiting. Ting for communities that have been historically subject to an oppressed by the doctrine of white supremacy. It's actually quite ridiculous.

1 (21m 10s):
My Administration will not even consider the renaming of these magnificent and fabled military installations our history as the greatest nation in the world will not be tampered with and so all told does it mean that that fight the fight to rename military bases take down statues is going to be just as tough as the fight against police. Beans in the coming weeks and months.

3 (21m 33s):
Look. I mean I think in both cases, you're sort of battling a long Legacy of American History. The veneration of the Confederacy is the result of one of the most successful decades-long propaganda campaigns in American history to convince Americans that the war was not actually about slavery that the South did not actually Rebel in defense of the institution of human bondage and these backlashes that are happening against these monuments in these symbols right now are part of a phenomenon. Dawn of public memory catching up to the reality of American History. So the similarity between both cases is just in that Americans are Reckoning with their genuine history of racial discrimination, and I think it's not clear how far we're going to go and try to rectify that but it is very clear that perceptions have shifted.

1 (22m 25s):
I guess I worry a little bit about our attention spans a majority of Americans feel like this is an important fight right now, but for how long

3 (22m 34s):
well look there's a lot of time left between now and November and we've already had a pandemic and economic collapse and a nationwide Uprising against police brutality. I just would not make any predictions about what's going to happen next, but I think that whether or not The protests continue in the intensity and volume that they have been going on for for the past few weeks. I think that there is a shift in public opinion that may prove to be durable and we'll just have

1 (23m 6s):
to see Adam thank you so much for your time. I appreciate the conversation and thanks to xz4 for his patients as well. Thanks for having me. Adam sir, where is a staff writer at the Atlantic? I'm Sean Rama's firm. That's today explained.