2 (1s):
Good news here. New figures show the economy is growing.

3 (4s):
China's latest quarterly growth figures are out and they're better than expected. Rwanda

4 (9s):
Is the third fastest

5 (10s):
Growing economy

4 (12s):
In the world. The India growth story is alive and kicking.

5 (17s):
It's because of endless growth. We can have all the things we enjoy today, but We don know where this growth goes. And if it doesn't stop, it will

0 (31s):
Cause

5 (32s):
A strain.

6 (34s):
The capitalist capital P philosophy is underpinned by a really simple assumption. Growth is good, but what if it isn't?

7 (43s):
You've got a finite planet. It has certain limits. You should listen to those limits.

6 (47s):
Coming up. On today explained Blame Capitalism. We're gonna talk. Degrowth

Crucible Moments (60s):
Support for this show today comes from Crucible Moments. Crucible Moments is a new podcast from Sequoia Capital and it takes you inside the pivotal decisions that shaped top companies like Airbnb, PayPal 23, and Me and More. You can tune into Sequoia s new podcast series to discover how some of the most transformational companies of the modern era were built. Crucible Moments is out now and available everywhere you get your podcasts. And at Crucible moments.com, you can listen to Crucible moments. Today

Amp (1m 34s):
Get connected to a community of music lovers with Amp, Amazon's live audio app. With access to over 100 million songs, you can curate and share live playlists highlighting what you think is the next big thing in music. Share your favorite tracks with other AMP users on your own live audio show and join the discussion in real time through live chat or call in because on Amp, everyone has a voice. You can even reach new audiences and get paid via the creator fund. Flex your music taste and find your music community on amp. Download Amp on iOS in the app store or for Android in the Google Play Store available in the US only.

5 (2m 14s):
Everyone's talking about Capitalism.

6 (2m 19s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King on Fridays. This month we've been examining how and why so many Americans have turned on Capitalism. 24 year old Adrian Luiz is one of those people. Adrian is a former E M T and a current communist. Why do you hate Capitalism?

1 (2m 38s):
I mean where, where do I start? I think that the big thing that got me because I was an E M T, is just the explicit profits over people part. And I saw that firsthand as a healthcare provider of we're the ones on the truck. Yeah, I was only making 1450 an hour while they made billions in profit. And I think that that really just got me of like, we see me as being unskilled even though I'm the one doing the actual labor, yet we see the people at the top as very, very skilled. Oh, also environmental justice. Just because you know, putting profits over the climate and all of that just really gets to me

6 (3m 11s):
Rarely as a reporter. Do you get it all in one answer, but there it was in the first interview I did for this series, all in one answer, inequality bad Wages, and what we've done to the environment on our way to economic growth. And it is not just the young communist talking this way. You remember Wendy Carlin from our first episode, PhD, C B e, super Smart Professor of Economics. Wendy traced for us the capitalist arc from Adam Smith's invisible hand liberalism to Keynesianism where the government's hands are massaging problems away. I asked Wendy, what is the ISN in 2023? Where do we stand? Well,

9 (3m 50s):
The thing really is we need a new ISN because we have new problems. Each of the isms kind of emerges to deal with the problems of the preceding one. So now we have problems of inequality, of climate crisis, and we need to have a livable planet, and that's got to be put together into a coherent economic system if we are going to meet those challenges.

6 (4m 18s):
A new isn. You heard me gasp, but what would that mean? Well, one possibility is not a word that ends with isn. I wish it were for consistency, but no, it's called degrowth and it means stop trying to grow economies to grow. G D P Degrowth is controversial and for good reason, growth is good. I lived for a long time in African countries that were experiencing G D P growth. I saw highways being built and towers being erected and roads being paved. To this day, scaffolding and rebar make me so happy. It means things are growing. I knew people in Sudan and Rwanda who'd had to leave school at nine or 10 years old, but thanks to economic growth, they were sending their kids to college, not for nothing.

6 (5m 2s):
That growth is a key tenet of Capitalism, but growth can be very unequal and it can absolutely trash the planet. What

10 (5m 10s):
We're doing currently is being Passengers on a train racing towards the cliff.

6 (5m 15s):
Economic historian, Dirk Phillipson is a proponent of degrowth.

10 (5m 18s):
Degrowth is a not particularly well defined term that combines a number of people who have all come to the conclusion based on very, very solid evidence by now that we can no longer grow and yet live in a world in which literally every government on earth currently pursues a strategy of growth. The Degrowth movement says this is a suicide pact.

6 (5m 48s):
Dirk teaches public policy at Duke. He wrote a book called The Little Big Number, how G D P came to Rule the World and what to do about it. G D P is gross domestic product and it's the sum total of all of the goods and services produced in a country in a single year. Everything. So how did it come to rule the world

10 (6m 8s):
Effectively? It came out of the Great Depression when capitalist economies around the world collapsed, and nobody quite understood why that was happening.

11 (6m 18s):
In 1929, we had a crash, and in 1934, Congress asked economists what happened.

10 (6m 25s):
They began to realize that they really didn't have a whole lot of knowledge about what the economy actually is and what it entailed.

11 (6m 32s):
And for the first time we counted and we came up with what is now known as G D P or gross domestic product.

10 (6m 39s):
And so G D P is essentially now a metric that measures quite accurately output of an economy. The problem with that immediately, the minute you begin to think about it, is that it is just simply volume and volume only expressed in money. So anything and everything that particularly women do, for instance, in the care economy that is not sold and the marketplace is not counted by

12 (7m 7s):
10 30, Delphina has breastfed the baby, dressed the children, made three beds, tidied two bedrooms, prepared breakfast for four, done the washing up, cleaned the bathroom, finished one load of washing and mixed the powder paint as her contribution to the activities of community play school,

10 (7m 22s):
Whether almost all of the proceeds go to rich people and nothing is left for poor people is not measured. Whether the things that we sell in the marketplace are good or bad toys or weapons is not differentiated.

13 (7m 38s):
It counts war. It counts environmental degradation, it counts pornography, it counts cigarette advertising. Things that many societies may view as unhealthy and perhaps slightly toxic.

10 (7m 51s):
This is a profoundly misleading and ultimately stupid and dangerous metric. We are in desperate dire need to find much better metrics, much better guidelines for what we do in our respective national economies. We need to figure out how to build economies that allow us to thrive without having to grow.

6 (8m 21s):
Where did the Degrowth movement start?

10 (8m 23s):
Well, that depends on how you wanna slice that particular cake. It has multiple origin points I think that are important. One is certainly the 1960s and early seventies chief among them, a report by a, an organization called The Club of Rome that is probably to this very day a on economics that has been read by more people than any other And that is called the limits to growth.

14 (8m 50s):
As we grow richer, there is rising concern about pollution, our ability to feed a growing population and fears that we may run outta fuel and metals.

15 (9m 0s):
The world is in a completely unstable situation and it is likely to fall to pieces if it doesn't stop growing

16 (9m 6s):
Because of the high population levels and the increasing industrialization. Natural resources are depleted at an increasing rate. And finally they fall down to the point where the industrial system can no longer be sustained.

6 (9m 20s):
So it goes from a bunch of nerds in a room in the early seventies writing a report, and now it's 2023. And I'm seeing this language in so many places. We are

17 (9m 30s):
In the beginning of a mass extinction, and all you can talk about is money and fairytales of eternal economic growth. How dare you?

6 (9m 41s):
Environmental activists are talking about degrowth. Economists are talking about degrowth. There's new books about degrowth I've seen in the big newspapers, the New York Times, the New Yorker essays. Op-eds wondering if it's possible. Can you trace the arc for me?

10 (9m 55s):
Yeah. So this is essentially happening at the same time as the environmental movement is Coming up. You have a river catching on fire because of all the pollutants and the trash that is in the river.

18 (10m 10s):
The Cuyahoga River as it reaches Lake eRate is an exhausted stream, abused and misused by man and his machines.

10 (10m 20s):
You have a full scale picture of planet Earth called the blue marble.

19 (10m 26s):
No one after seeing that could deny that the world is finite.

10 (10m 30s):
This really changed people's understanding as to what we need to do in order to take care of this planet. And vitally important also for the establishment of an environmental movement in which they use computers to show for the first time that if we grow exponentially, we will simply run out of resources and destroy the planet. It also comes out of multiple political movements that were against societies turning into consumer societies where nothing matters anymore than producing and consuming If. you

15 (11m 5s):
Have a kind of society which is going to eat the the very planet we're on, eat it up, consume it. You will find that there's nothing left.

10 (11m 14s):
And so lots and lots of different things come together that create a receptive audience for the limits to growth. They're essentially making the argument that if we stay on this growth path, the only end to that is you know, our own extinction. One more thing I wanna say about the Degrowth community is that they're not just saying it's not possible. They're also saying it's not desirable. It's a kind of life that you and I ultimately do not want. We don't want to drown in just stuff. We want to have a life. We want to have time for each other. We want to have time for creative thinking and art and love and kindness.

6 (11m 57s):
You teach at Duke, you understand American politics. I think an American politician could not win on a platform of degrowth.

10 (12m 6s):
I beg to differ.

6 (12m 7s):
Tell me, tell me more.

10 (12m 9s):
The only famous for politician in the western world, to my knowledge, whoever made it a platform to replace G D P and to try to begin to develop an economy that does not need to grow with Robert f Kennedy

20 (12m 24s):
Too much and for too long we seem to have surrendered personal excellence and community value in the mayor accumulation of material things

10 (12m 34s):
In the speech in 1968, he talked about it very, very eloquently saying that just the way we measure success right now, it

20 (12m 43s):
Measures everything in short,

10 (12m 44s):
Measures everything except that which makes life worthwhile

20 (12m 49s):
And it can tell us everything about America except why we are proud that we are Americans.

10 (12m 56s):
He had very deeply thought about it, he was very smart about it. And from what I know about this history, he was likely to be not just the Democratic candidate, but also likely to be the next president of the United States. This is a message that needs to be told. It's a difficult message because it runs up against very deeply ingrained assumptions that people have. But I think it is increasingly a message that resonates with a growing number of people and particularly young people I work with. I don't even have to explain it anymore. When I started working on this, I would imagine that worldwide there was maybe a community of 500 to a thousand people who were working on this.

10 (13m 43s):
Now there are hundreds of thousands of people. People are beginning to understand this is the critical issue. This is the most important critical issue of all times.

6 (13m 57s):
That was Duke University's Dirk Phillipson. Coming up next. Wait. Could a politician win on a platform of Degrowth? What would the platform be

Mint Mobile (14m 16s):
Support for today? Explain comes from Mint Mobile according to Mint Mobile. Mint Mobile is not a typical cell phone company. They say they're the first wireless company to take their services totally online so you don't have to go to the provider store. You can shop for order and set up a new phone plan from home. Right now, their plans are just $15 a month. They've got several options to choose from, and all of them give you unlimited talk and text. Plus high speed data delivered on the country's largest five G network. You get to keep your same phone and your same phone number when you switch to a Mint Mobile. Plan to get a new wireless plan for $15 a month and get the plan shipped to your door for free, you can go to mint mobile.com/explained. That's mint mobile.com/explained. You can cut your wireless bill to $15 a month at mint mobile.com/explained.

ZBiotics (15m 7s):
Support For the show today comes from Z Biotics. It's a pre-cool probiotic if you're wondering what that is when you drink the alcohol releases a byproduct called acetaldehyde that can sometimes cause unpleasant morning after effects. This thing's here to help and friend of the show, Sarah Frank tried it out. So I took a Z shot before having a few glasses of wine, and I'm happy to report that I was able to wake up feeling like myself. No headache, no gurgly belly, just feeling good This Halloween. You might try pairing your candy and cocktails with Z biotics to avoid a spooky next morning. Listeners can go to Z dot com slash today explain to get 15% off your first order, what you use today at checkout. You can also sign up for a subscription at an extra 20% off using our code so you can stay prepared no matter the time or occasion. Z Biotics has a 100% money back guarantee. So if you're unsatisfied for any reason, they'll refund your money. No questions asked. Listeners can head to Z biotics.com/today, explain and use the code today at checkout for 15% off

0 (16m 22s):
Two.

6 (16m 28s):
Back with today explained Blame Capitalism. Over the course of our series, we've heard critiques of shareholder Capitalism of les at fair Capitalism of entire ages that masquerade as golden comm Capitalism, but exclude a lot of people. But there's an argument that it's not the modifiers. The problem is just Capitalism

7 (16m 47s):
The overriding misconception in Capitalism isn that it has no idea where enough is that sort of point of balance between having too little and having too much. And even if it did recognize that point, it has no way of stopping when it gets there because it's too busy growing.

6 (17m 6s):
Tim Jackson is an ecological economist.

7 (17m 9s):
I lead a research center called the Center for the Understanding of sustainable Prosperity.

6 (17m 15s):
We started this series on Capitalism by noting that everyone seems deeply disappointed in it these days. And we say everyone, I'm exaggerating, right? But more and more you hear people out in the public square saying, Capitalism, isn not working. Why do you think that is? Where do you think this discontent has come from in the past decade or so?

7 (17m 34s):
Well, it's come from the fact that the inequality that Capitalism has given rise to has become more and more obvious. Also, I think we can look back at the financial crisis, see that as a crisis of Capitalism, a point at which the most capitalistic institutions, the banks and the financial institutions basically fell apart because they had behaved too recklessly and then had to be bailed out essentially by the taxpayer.

22 (17m 60s):
And if there's one thing that has unified Democrats and Republicans and everybody in between, is that we all hated the bank bailout.

7 (18m 7s):
And then there are sort of longer term trends that sort of rise in inequality because of the concentration of wealth in the hands of the very few. And that's I think interestingly given rise to dissatisfaction even among capitalists. Mark Benioff, who's the C e o chief executive of Salesforce at the time, went to the World Economic Forum in January of 2020, basically saying, Capitalism, isn, dead

23 (18m 33s):
Capitalism, isn. We have known it is dead. And this obsession that we have with maximizing profits for shareholders alone has led to incredible inequality and a planetary emergency

7 (18m 50s):
And. that was an extraordinary thing really, for somebody who had become a billionaire through Capitalism isn and lived in one of the most capitalist countries and presided over one of the most capitalist companies to start saying, actually, you know, we have to think a little bit differently about what we're doing here because this kind of Capitalism at least doesn't work. But what I really took from that conversation and from this dissatisfaction with Capitalism isn that actually we should be thinking about Capitalism. isn a temporary phase in history. All phases in history are temporary. We know that everything changes. No social system lasts forever. And actually I think that's a very good basis for starting to think about what might happen after Capitalism,

6 (19m 37s):
What might happen after Capitalism. You're

7 (19m 40s):
Asking me to answer that? Yeah,

6 (19m 42s):
Yeah. Well, I mean it is.

7 (19m 44s):
It is a huge question. And in a sense, what I was doing,

6 (19m 46s):
It is a huge question. And here's where the Degrowth movement can run into trouble. What are its policies? A degrowth lawmaker would run on what exactly? Some of the books about Degrowth offer ideas like legislate an end to planned obsolescence. My iPhone and millions of other iPhones could last 10 or 15 years if Apple built them that way. Apple has settled a class action suit after being accused of purposely slowing down older phones during upgrades. Another idea, cut advertising on TV and on billboards so that people don't buy a bunch of stuff they don't need.

24 (20m 21s):
They're everywhere you look. And now they're looking at you too. Digital billboards with the ability to track your every move

6 (20m 29s):
Or shift from ownership to usership. It's

25 (20m 33s):
Called avail. And it's basically like Airbnb for your car. It puts unused vehicles like these on the road and money in owners' pockets.

6 (20m 42s):
And a controversial idea for Americans legislate that the emissions spewing beef industry has to shrink

26 (20m 49s):
In digesting their high fiber diet. Cows emit methane is a byproduct, making them one of the least climate friendly sources of food on the planet.

6 (20m 57s):
I actually stopped eating meat after reading a couple of these compelling degrowth books. But there's the problem. A lot of these solutions come down to individual behavior. Would companies agree to this stuff? The way things are set up now, the purpose of a corporation you remember is to make money for its shareholders. Could that really change? Tim Jackson is surprisingly optimistic about this.

7 (21m 20s):
The transition we're talking about takes the fundamental bits of economics and asks what should they really mean? So is investment, for example, an endless wealth maximization process that makes a few people very rich at the expense of the majority? No, that's not what investment means in economics. Investment means taking some of our income from the present, putting it aside in order to construct a better future. Yeah, it's about seeing the future and investing in that future investment as a commitment to the future. Same thing with enterprise.

7 (22m 0s):
It's there to serve society and If. you begin to think about the services that enterprises provide to society. You organize them in different ways. You pay for them in different ways. They self-organize in different ways and they deliver different things to society. And so essentially, it does make it sound like a rather complicated exercise. And I think we should not expect it to be simple because we are embedded in this complex culture, and it's been with us for a couple of centuries. And it's embedded in our politics. It's embedded in our psyche, it's embedded in our organization of society, and it's embedded in our economics.

6 (22m 47s):
I mean, we've all learned, and I think accurately that G D P growth has helped humanity in the developed world. It has helped us become the developed world. Shouldn't we be pursuing that for the parts of the world that are underdeveloped, that don't have what we have?

7 (23m 2s):
I think that's a really, really important part of the conversation. It's a really important observation. You don't, I think, want a system in which you rule out the possibilities of growth in those poorer parts of the world. That growth is at the moment in hock to the rich economies, in debt to the rich economies, organized under systems that are dominated by the rich economies. And there's nobody in the rich economies really taking that problem seriously. Nobody saying, actually, you know, we can't afford to grow here anymore because there is a desperate need for growth to bring poor people out of poverty.

7 (23m 44s):
And that's a, you know, that's a wicked problem. It's a problem that calls on us to be politically astute, courageous as leaders, inventive as entrepreneurs, and sometimes simply moral as human beings. Human beings are not short term, selfish, hedonistic, Consumers, or at least that's not our entirety. And we are losing the depth of our own humanity by living inside a system that pretends that we are those individuals And, that creates all its institutional arrangements to confine us in.

7 (24m 24s):
What I see actually as a kind of a cage, I see Capitalism, isn, a cage that confines us into an image of ourselves that I don't personally believe in. And if I look to poets or sages or psychologists or sociologists, I don't see that they believe in it either. The only people who do seem to believe in it are economists,

6 (24m 46s):
Economist, Tim Jackson. Everyone's talking about Capitalism, isn. They all seem like they're mad. That's where we started this series. We asked, what is Capitalism? It's an economic system of private property markets and companies, an anodyne definition for a thing. That's anything. But we also asked, can we change it? Should we try? Well, people have changed it. It's a powerful system. But as we've learned, it's not natural. It was never inevitable. And while maybe the most potent thing ever said about Capitalism isn, iron Lady Margaret Thatcher's remark that there is no alternative today.

6 (25m 29s):
A lot of people burned by the system or excluded from its successes are asking. But what if there is? Today's show was produced by Aisha Artsy. We had original music from John Ehrens and our editor is Matthew Collette. We had additional editing from Jolie Meyers and Miranda Kennedy, Halima Sha and Laura Bullard were our fact checkers and our engineer was David Herman. Those specific ideas in the episode on how to Do Degrowth came from Jason Hick's. Provocative book, less is more How Degrowth Will Save the World. The rest of the team here at today explained includes si, Petros Miles, Bryan Haddi mdi, Patrick Boyd, Rob Byers, Amina Elsi, Victoria Chamberlain, and Amanda Lu Ellen.

6 (26m 12s):
My co-host is Sean Ramez firm. And if you're having strong feelings about Degrowth, please do email them to Sean. He's at Sean ramas firm_two@gmail.com. We're produced by the Vox Media Podcast Network and distributed to public radio stations by WNYC in New York City. If, you like the show? Here's an idea. Rate us and give us a review on Apple Podcasts. It'll help other people find the show. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.

Viator (26m 55s):
Traveling is amazing, dealing with logistics, not so much via tour can help make travel simple and enjoyable. Via Tour has over 300,000 bookable experiences, ranging from simple tours to extreme adventures. Plus, via tour's experiences have millions of real traveler reviews. So you'll have the information you need to book the best activities for your trip. Download the Via Tour app now and use code via Tour 10 for 10% off your first booking one app. Over 300,000 experiences. You'll remember. Do more with via tour.

Amazon web services (27m 34s):
Support for this episode comes from Amazon. Web Services Your applications are the cornerstone of your business. So, how are you staying ahead with a w s, You can innovate without limits. A w s provides extensive, reliable, and secure infrastructure designed to deliver the best performance at an optimal cost. With the broadest and deepest application development capabilities at your fingertips. you can reimagine every application, Innovate without limits. Learn more at go do AWS slash a.