0 (1s):
For a long time, regular Americans didn't talk very much about Capitalism. Vox wasn't publishing Think pieces about frog and toad being anti-capitalist icons and the wrap on Jack Welch we talked about in our last episode. Great c e o in on the joke, If,

2 (17s):
You need to pass some eye water. I'll be happy to go out and get you some weakness tissues. No,

3 (22s):
I'm not crying in front of Jack Welch.

0 (24s):
But during the great financial crisis, Capitalism broke for everyone and instead of uniting us, it divided us. The rage then was like one of those summer wildfires that burns so intensely, it makes its own weather. It whipped up a political storm on the right.

4 (40s):
President Obama, are you listening?

0 (42s):
And on the left

5 (43s):
We're very angry at Wall Street. It's the heart of Capitalism American and Capitalism especially. That's why we're here today

0 (49s):
And that's why we are here today. On today explained, we've identified the moment we all started talking about Capitalism Coming up a financial crisis and two wildly different but lasting responses to the problems with American Capitalism.

Fundrise (1m 8s):
Support for our show comes from Fundrise. Fundrise is an investment platform designed to make it easier for investors of all sizes to put their money behind private. pre i P o companies poised for big things. The service just launched a new venture capital product focused on allowing even small investors access to some of the top private pre i p O companies in the world before they go public According to Fundrise. Almost two million people have already used the service to invest If you'd like to join them. you can visit Fundrise dot com slash t x to get started. That's F U N D R I SS e.com/t x. All investments can lead to loss.

Zelle (1m 55s):
Support for this episode comes from Zelle. You'd never fall for an online scam, right? You use two-factor authentication. Ignore calls from everyone named spam risk and never use the password password word. But scammers are getting more sophisticated and more active, which means they're finding millions of new victims every single year. The good news is that there's a lot you can do to protect yourself on the wild, wild web. For starters, Zelle wants to remind you only send money to people you know and trust. Zelle is available to United States bank account holders. Only terms and conditions apply.

8 (2m 44s):
Everyone's talking about Capitalism all seem like their

1 (2m 50s):
Mad.

0 (2m 52s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King On Fridays in September, we've been telling the story of American Capitalism and why so many of us Blame it for so much. Last week we covered the 1980s when General Electric, c e o, Jack Welch, turbocharged shareholder, Capitalism and other CEOs followed him. Greed was good, Capitalism was on steroids, government was limited. Regulation, not so much. There was a neoliberal consensus, however you wanna put it. It all led to a financial crisis that was so complicated. Even economists couldn't figure out what the hell had happened. The invisible hand was once again elsewhere. And then as Washington was trying to figure out how to respond to the financial crisis, Americans elected a guy who promised the exact opposite of invisible hand limited government change

9 (3m 39s):
Has been forced

0 (3m 40s):
On us. No, not John Maynard Keynes. But this guy also had a plan and it involved some very visible hands. The

10 (3m 47s):
Plan I'm announcing focuses on rescuing families who've played by the rules and acted responsibly by refinancing loans for millions of families in traditional mortgages who are underwater or close to it.

0 (3m 60s):
In this speech in Arizona, president Barack Obama was saying he was gonna bail out the little guy, the homeowner. And the day after Obama's announcement in February, 2009, A C N B C personality named Rick Santelli put out a call for a certain type of Angry American. We're

4 (4m 16s):
Thinking of having a Chicago Tea Party in July. All you capitalists that wanna show up the Lake Michigan, I'm gonna start organizing.

11 (4m 24s):
Rick Santelli has this televised rant on the floor of the Chicago Stock Exchange, and he is articulating the sentiments of many Americans, not just conservatives, which were like, you know, these people took out mortgages they can't pay for. Why are we paying for? And this, these are Elle's words, not mine. The losers' mortgages.

4 (4m 45s):
The government is promoting bad behavior. I'll tell you what, I have an idea. Why don't you put up a website to have people vote on the internet to see if we really wanna subsidize the losers' mortgages

11 (4m 56s):
Or so he, in this burst of feeling, urges everyone to join him in creating a new tea party. I'm Dr. Rachel Blum. I am an assistant professor at the University of Oklahoma where I teach in political science. If there was no Rick Santelli, we still would've had a movement that was reacting to the Obama presidency. If nothing else, it just wouldn't have been called a tea party. So I, I think what we can really credit him for is getting on national television and using this phrase that for people who fancy themselves as a certain type of constitutional patriot had a history of principled resistance to government overreach.

9 (5m 35s):
For months we've been hearing stories that, oh, GM made a bunch of bad financial moves and business moves, but we're gonna bail them out, that we're gonna make sure all of the stockholders are made whole. And most of the people who pay taxes in this country were in my situation, are more like me than they were like the people who run Goldman Sachs. My name is Bill Hennessy and my day job is mostly in technology design engineer. My son actually sent me a text message with a link to a story about Rick Sant's rant on C N B C.

4 (6m 15s):
This is America. How many of you people wanna pay for your neighbor's mortgage that has an extra bathroom and can't pay their bills? Raise their hand.

9 (6m 23s):
How about we have just been through some really rough economic times for, for about three, four years as a technologist, I was doing very well, leading up to Y two K and then the.com bubble popped. And so my situation went downhill and we had a fairly large family with five kids. I was working 80 hours a week, barely able to make ends meet. Very tired of having to tell my wife and kids, we can't do that. We just don't have the money. So when Rick Santelli said We're gonna have a tea party here in Chicago, he turned us from victims to advocates for ourselves.

9 (7m 3s):
So people jumped on that and began announcing local tea parties all around the country. And I had a blog that was mostly popular in the St. Louis area at the time, and I offered to hold a St. Louis Tea party and I had no idea what I was doing. I'd never organized anything like this. And you know, we got as much publicity, the local publicity as we could. The anomaly of conservatives protesting caught people's attention. Since the original Tea Party involved dumpling tea into Boston Harbor, we decided to have people bring loose leaf tea and, and, and dump it into the Mississippi and had no connection to what was going on, but the, what the problem was. But it was a great media draw and then it just took off.

12 (7m 46s):
They're spending our money, our, our children's money, our grandchildren's money, and they're gonna just continue to push this country into debt and they're gonna destroy the economy of America.

13 (7m 55s):
You know, if media's not doing its job, if government is just taking over every single thing it can and we now have an unfettered liberal, the radical left has got control of the process

14 (8m 12s):
Among Tea party activists. Capitalism was a heroic word. It was one that they celebrated being called a capitalist. An indicator that you were part of wealth creation in society, that you were a contributor to wealth creation in society. I

15 (8m 26s):
Believe in free enterprise, I believe in Capitalism.

14 (8m 30s):
My name is Braden King and I'm a professor of management at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management. The Tea Party movement was supposed to represent the people who were trying to get out from under the government so they could create more wealth. So in a sense, the Tea Party activists used Capitalism as a way to motivate people to get involved because anybody who saw Capitalism as good, they'd argue it should be a tea party activist.

11 (8m 55s):
Now this is where like the distinction between what the masterminds or the funders wanted the movement to be and what it became, Americans for Prosperity and Freedom Works and other Koch affiliate organizations give a lot of materials to the fledgling tea party groups, right? Everyone gets a copy of anything. Milton Friedman wrote that they ever wanted to read anything from Friedrich Hayek. So people are learning about this and most of the activists I spoke to were like, I, I'm not a communist. But I never knew about all this and they were, you know, excited about learning about the Capitalism angle, but they couldn't go very far into it. So, you know, once they regurgitate to me the talking points that they learned from some training or some speaker, they would veer off course very quickly.

11 (9m 43s):
Those people weren't economic purists so much as they were reactionaries, right? Reacting to the cultural change and economics was part of that, but it wasn't the only thing. So in my years interviewing Tea Party years and going to their events, I heard much more conversation about, you know, cultural decline, racist dog whistles, anti-immigration, anti-Muslim sentiment, and a lot of conspiracy theorizing that I think most people weren't aware of until Q Anon made that, that kind of thing. More, more mainstream.

16 (10m 16s):
There are many Americans, including many in the Tea Party who think Obama was not even born in the United States.

17 (10m 23s):
He was born Muslim, he was raised

18 (10m 25s):
Muslim, he was born Kenya. I've never seen any, any evidence of his Christianity

11 (10m 33s):
In official terms, right? The, the Tea Party name stopped being used very much after 2014. The House Freedom Caucus, which forms in 2015 doesn't use the name even though it's very clearly affiliated with people who were part of the Tea Party in the electorate, the activist base of the Tea Party mobilized and was a big part of helping elect Donald Trump.

19 (10m 57s):
The Tea Party people are incredible people. These are people that work hard and they love the country and then they get just beat up all the time by the media. It's disgusting and you'll be surprised how big you are. You don't know how big you are, you don't know the power that you have. I mean it,

11 (11m 13s):
So like where did it go? I think it, it went from being this outsider insurgent faction to being the party or, or at least a very powerful part of the party.

14 (11m 26s):
I don't think you would have the populism of the Trump era without the Tea Party movement to kind of pave the way for how to do it.

11 (11m 33s):
The idea that Trump picked up on and really used that anyone who wasn't on board with his agenda was the enemy, even if they were Republican. That's very Tea Party. The Tea Party also helped change the parameters of what is acceptable to say out loud in public. They were full of kind of anti-black and brown, anti-immigrant, anti anyone who wasn't part of the heterosexual Christian White mainstream mold. And that rhetoric did creep into the public consciousness. So it's, it's kind of hard for me to imagine that Trump would've been as immediately successful without rhetoric if the Tea Party activists hadn't been priming the pump for a while.

9 (12m 18s):
The people who got behind Donald Trump with a large number of crossovers from the de Democratic party, huge support from organized labor rank and file of organized labor, those were exactly the same people who came out to the tea parties. Many of them rarely voted prior to 2016. They believe that Trump was the only hope to give them a voice against the system that had been built against them. So I think that is the, you know, good or bad, however that falls out. That was the ultimate culmination of the Tea Party.

0 (12m 54s):
So this was the first response to the great financial crisis and the failure of Capitalism rage at the people who got bailed out. The losers who got mortgages that were too big. The Tea Party used the language of Capitalism and free markets as a cudgel to beat those people up and to beat up a government that was helping them. So why did Americans turn on each other like this instead of turning on the banks or the bankers? Well the tea party was never as grassroots as it seemed. It had the backing of the billionaire Koch brothers who kept their influence a tightly guarded secret. The Cokes wanted capitalists in office, but they aren't kings, they're just billionaires. They needed the grassroots, so they mobilized the grassroots.

0 (13m 37s):
The irony here is that the man, the grassroots elected never liked the Kochs. He never needed them because he already had so many of us. Donald Trump surveyed the scene, saw glimpses of how angry and divided we were, then took his gaudy golden crowbar and wrenched that door open wider and maybe forever Coming up. We go back to the second response to the big failure of Capitalism some.

NPR (14m 26s):
How do you get your news? That wasn't really a question you asked back in the 1950s, but they didn't have the slew of options that you do now from Facebook feeds, TikTok breakdowns and whatever they're calling Twitter these days. Sometimes it feels like there's too many options while the Up first podcast from N P R is here to help be your guide for navigating today's news up first frees you from the all day scroll obsession by telling you everything you need to know in an easy 15 minutes. No bss, just the facts up first provides the top three news stories to start your day with digestible 10 to 15 minute episodes you can get back to your life and feel informed without losing your mind in the process. With the elections in 2024 pending indictments, AI and more, we know it's going to be chaos. So let up first to guide you through the news cycle so you can save the energy for the kids errands or anything else you actually want to do. Listen now to Up First from N P R wherever you get your podcasts.

Indeed (15m 27s):
Support For today, explain comes from indeed If. you are hiring. You probably don't have time to wait around for a perfect candidate Indeed wants to help bring them to you. Indeed is a hiring platform on which you can attract, interview and hire all in one place. Usually you might spend hours switching between multiple job sites, looking for candidates with the right skills, indeed can help you streamline all of that. Here's how it works. You post an open job and indeed immediately shows you candidates whose resumes fit your descriptions. This helps you hire faster, plus you only pay for applications that meet your must have requirements. You can start hiring now with a $75 sponsored job credit to upgrade your job. Post at indeed.com/today explained. This offer is good for a limited time. Listeners can claim they're $75 credit now at indeed.com/today explained. That's indeed.com/today. Explained some terms and conditions apply.

0 (16m 37s):
The second response to the failure of Capitalism came two years after the Tea Party was founded. 2011 was a crazy year. There were huge protest movements in Spain, in Israel, and of course all across the Arab world it was bound to come to America and it did. The year before in 2010, the Democratic Party had been walloped in the midterms, thanks in part to a little group called the Tea Party. And all of a sudden President Obama was in the mood to compromise.

20 (17m 5s):
You know what he starts talking about instead of justice or about progress, he talks about the deficit, the deficit, the deficit.

10 (17m 13s):
Most of us already agree that to truly solve our deficit problem, we need to find trillions in savings over the next decade.

20 (17m 21s):
This is David Meyer. I'm a professor of sociology and political science at the University of California Irvine. Where's the spark? Where's the spark? Adbusters are lefty. Activist Magazine calls for an occupation and they say, let's all go to Wall Street. Let's all assemble there, agree on one demand and not leave until that demand is satisfied.

1 (17m 48s):
The first time

21 (17m 49s):
I went to Zucati Park to check out Occupy Wall Street, I went by myself Out of curiosity, my name is Sonny Singh. I am a musician, a popular educator of sorts and an activist of sorts. I brought my trumpet with me and I really liked the vibe and the spirit of what I saw happening. I saw, I mean I did see mostly youngish white folks, But I saw a mix of folks of color in the mix as well and I saw a pretty welcoming vibe and it felt like so many things to, to be a part of Occupy Wall Street and and to be there, But, I, think more than anything. It felt exciting. And in particular, something that I hadn't really seen up until that point as an activist was such a serious critique of Capitalism becoming mainstream, almost becoming cool among a generation of, of young people.

21 (18m 43s):
Occupy started bringing that critique of Capitalism and sort of normalizing anti-capitalism as a, not only a legitimate stance, but one that made a lot of sense given the harms that Capitalism was creating right in front of us.

22 (18m 57s):
We saw a bunch of people hanging around occupying this rather small park in downtown Manhattan that was fairly unremarkable otherwise, and that was Occupy in its very embryo. My name is Ruth Milkman. I am a professor of sociology and labor studies at the City University of New York.

18 (19m 16s):
My name's Yotta Marone. I am a group facilitator for social movement organizations. People were just coming outta the woodwork. They were getting off buses, off trains coming to this place. All kinds of different people from all kinds of different places and people who were walking out on their jobs. I hadn't seen anything like that before.

22 (19m 40s):
We assumed as the participants did at the time that this would not last very long because typically in New York City when something like this breaks out, the police swoop in and make everybody leave. But for some reason they did not do that. In this case,

11 (19m 56s):
I joined the Direct Action Working group and we did a lot of planning for actions to keep up momentum and to keep the narrative going. My name is Sandy Nurse and I am the city council member for the 37th District in Brooklyn. It was just an explosion of people. There was daily marches down to the stock exchange, different unions came down to the park and did rallies or led marches from it. And we had celebrities come down. Lupe Fiasco gave us speakers, Kanye showed up. Al Sharpton, Charlie Wrangle, Russell Simmons showed up. I mean, it became a, a place to be and be seen at If. you were someone wanting to be associated with progressive or left movements and politics.

18 (20m 43s):
You know, October 15th was, I think we ended up with something like 80,000 people in Times Square. You couldn't move. It was huge. And there was this moment that we all started to sing this little light of mine and we had handed out sparklers and people were lighting the sparklers and singing

23 (20m 58s):
99.

18 (21m 2s):
And right around then, I think it was the C N N building has like a ticker that shows you the headlines and the headline was Occupy, wall Street Goes Global. It was an incredible feeling. It was an incredible moment and, and I think it had real political significance. I think it was one of the first times that people in my political generation felt powerful.

22 (21m 27s):
The participants said that they had been victimized by the financial crisis of 2 0 8. And meanwhile, wall Street got bailed out. They got sold out. That was one of the slogans and I think that really resonated with folks in the aftermath of 2008.

11 (21m 42s):
The conversation around Capitalism was an everyday all day thing. We even had a chant from Spain that was just singing anti-capitalist,

24 (21m 54s):
Everybody.

11 (21m 56s):
I mean, it was the thing, it was an anti-capitalist movement.

22 (22m 1s):
You know, the slogan was, we are the 99%,

25 (22m 6s):
99%.

22 (22m 8s):
This did unify people and it provided a kind of laser focus on the system of Capitalism and what its consequences were. And it became, you know, a kind of touchstone for people's discontent very quickly.

18 (22m 23s):
I think one of the major contributions that Occupy Wall Street has made that has outlasted Occupy is the framing of the 99%. I think that's a major contribution to help people think and see in terms of class on a mass level. And I think that's because Occupy had anti-capitalism really baked into it.

20 (22m 45s):
Occupy had difficulties as anything more than a holder of figuring out next steps to be sure in some places people had coherent plans for what to do next, how to focus on student debt, how to focus on housing accessibility, but Occupy no longer unified all of these things. Some of the people who came out of Occupy wanted to do electoral politics. Some of the people wanted no part of electoral politics. And so this is, this is a, a problem. What does Occupy stand for?

21 (23m 18s):
I definitely think Occupy Wall Street has a lot to do with a growing popularity in socialism and a growing popularity of anti-capitalism or a strong critique of Capitalism. You know, when I think about our social movements, when I think about this country's sort of political trajectory over the last few decades, I do see Occupy as a turning point in bringing those ideas to a much, much wider audience. You know, for example, democratic Socialists of America was an organization that long preceded Occupy Wall Street, but was not a very popular organization, right? Was not a very serious player in our political ecosystem.

21 (23m 58s):
And today it very much is right Like it. A D Ss a is a, is a force to be reckoned with in a beautiful and powerful way. And I think that turning point that Occupy created, I think has a lot to do with the, even the popularity of a political candidate like Bernie Sanders. I think there's a sort of through line from Occupy, Bernie Sanders, black Lives Matter, and D Ss A, they're sort of like these movement moments that have built upon one another in ways that I think we'll still see what the impacts are in five, 10 years.

22 (24m 30s):
What I remember being surprised by at the time was hearing interviews on the media with people who said, well, I really like Bernie Sanders, but if that doesn't work out, I'm gonna vote for Trump. And vice versa. People who said, I'm a Trump supporter, But, I really like Bernie Sanders. And in my head this didn't make any sense at first, like how could they like both of these people. But the reason was that both of them did articulate the sense of grievance that ordinary people who felt left out of the neoliberal order or whatever you want to call it, felt. They felt that. And both those candidates in very different ways spoke to that sense of betrayal. They had completely different agendas, obviously, but they both appealed to the same people or at least some of the same people.

0 (25m 19s):
So Capitalism broke and there were two responses. One was anti-big government pro capitalist. The other was deeply grassroots, progressive anti-capitalist. And they both led us to the same outcome. President Donald J. Trump, A politics of grievance and a sense that everything has failed. Democracy and Capitalism both. It's all gone goofy and that's opened a door for people who propose changes to Capitalism that once upon a time, I promise you would have been unthinkable. Next Friday on our last episode of Blame Capitalism, should we throw the entire system out? Trigger warning Neo Libs.

0 (25m 59s):
We're gonna talk Degrowth. Today's show was produced by Abishai Artsy. We had original music from Jon Ehrens. Our editor is Matthew, collect additional editing by Jolie Myers and Miranda Kennedy, Laura Bullard and Serena Solin are our fact-checkers. Our engineers are Patrick Boyd and Rob Byers. Special thanks to Martin Wolfe of the Financial Times. You should check out his book, the Crisis of Democratic Capitalism. It's really very good. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.