1 (1s):
Google's free tools are designed to help millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working. And right. Now these businesses could use our help support. The place is near you by booking an appointment buying a gift card writing a review more ordering takeout all With a Little Help from Google. Xerox ones to help you make now work because right now there are a lot of things getting in the way of that work pivot to future-ready solutions that will help your business Thrive and take on this new normal at Xerox.com Vox Xerox automates and digitizes your system. So being remote doesn't slow down your flow and when you need to offer personalized care to a customer Xerox helps you do so with tech solutions that feel human learn more about how to transform your business for these Changing Times at Xerox Dot.

1 (50s):
flash box we are two weeks to the day away from The 20/20 election in the United States, but something like 30 million Americans have already voted by mail according to a CNN survey that represents about a fifth of the total vote in the 2016 presidential election. It's impressive. It's inspiring and people are out there doing everything they can to impede it just Tonight the Supreme Court had to get involved to weigh in on Pennsylvania's voting deadlines a question about whether mail-in ballots should still be counted after election day.

1 (1m 37s):
The justices were deadlocked 424 which means the lower Court's ruling will stand which means yes, they will continue to count ballots in Pennsylvania for three days after the election, which is somehow a political controversy, but wait, there's more.

2 (1m 54s):
My name is Holly Otterbein. I'm a reporter for Politico covering the 2020 election. And and I'm here based in Philadelphia in The Great Battle Ground state of Pennsylvania.

1 (2m 3s):
Yeah, and how's the battle going right now?

2 (2m 6s):
It's a Battleground. We have, you know, Biden and Trump visiting every other day surrogates flying in here all the time. It's very hotly contested. It's considered the Tipping Point stayed in the entire electoral

1 (2m 18s):
college and people are already voting this time around.

2 (2m 21s):
Yeah. Yeah. That's absolutely right. This is actually the first time the first year that Pennsylvania has no excuse male voting. So people are already requesting their mail ballots. They're turning them in and they're also going to what is informally known as early voting sites or satellite election offices where they can cast their mail ballots there.

1 (2m 43s):
So since people are already voting in this is a regular for the state of Pennsylvania. What are the major issues regarding voting thus far so briefly one issue is

2 (2m 56s):
concern that mail in votes are not going Be counted until Election Day by law in Pennsylvania. You cannot start counting those votes until the morning of election day. In other states. You can start days in advance

1 (3m 10s):
here you can and that's going to cause potentially some issues. Another potential problem is mail ballots being rejected usually with machine

2 (3m 20s):
votes, you know, very few of those are ever rejected but mail ballots are rejected at higher rates, and that could

1 (3m 27s):
affect Democrats more than Republicans. For reasons we can get into later

2 (3m 31s):
and then lastly a pretty high number of mail-in ballot applications are being denied as well. And that's also

1 (3m 38s):
causing some concern here. Yeah, understandably. Okay, so people are concerned that no one's going to start counting all these mail in ballots until election day. People are concerned that votes are being rejected outright. And then thirdly we have mail-in ballot requests being denied. Let's go through each of those one by one. First of all Why not start counting the votes until election day when there's going to be a lot of really important Battleground State votes to

2 (4m 9s):
count. So Democrats would like to do that Governor wolf wanted to get the count started three weeks in

1 (4m 16s):
advance and the governor is a Democrat just to be

2 (4m 19s):
clear. He has. Yep Democratic governor. Tom Wolf Republicans say that they actually want to count early as well. Although by only a few. Days, the problem is that Republicans have introduced this package of voting reforms and Democrats and Republicans in the state legislature say it's very unlikely that they're going to be able to come to an agreement on all of these voting reforms including being able to count the ballots before election day. So it appears as though we're stuck with the law the way it

1 (4m 51s):
is. Hmm. Okay. Well, let's move on to this potentially more troubling second issue that you mentioned. Mentioned that votes could get rejected. I know that sometimes votes are rejected because ballots are filled out incorrectly. Is that what this is or is this something

2 (5m 6s):
else? That's basically what this is, but the problem is that Democrats are planning to vote much more by mail than Republicans. This is largely because President Trump has engaged in this campaign against Mel voting you

1 (5m 22s):
could be talking about large percentages of these pellets are going to be missing. There's going to be fraud. It's a disaster

2 (5m 30s):
and he's raised a lot of concerns, you know, again baselessly including among Republican voters and so Voters are planning overwhelmingly to vote in person and Democrats are planning mostly to vote by mail. And so any rejection of mail ballots is likely to affect Democrats much more than Republicans in a normal year. These kinds of rejection rates probably wouldn't change the actual result much but in this year it could and one major piece of this that is concerning to Democrats is there was a ruling by the state supreme court recently. That was mostly good for Democrats. But one thing that Republicans wanted was for naked ballots to be tossed out naked ballots.

2 (6m 15s):
Yes. I know so silly name in Pennsylvania by law when you mail in a mail-in ballot. It needs to be into

1 (6m 23s):
envelope. So your

2 (6m 24s):
ballot goes in one envelope called the secrecy envelope and then that goes in a more General envelope if your mail ballot doesn't have a secrecy envelope that's considered a naked ballot and per the state supreme. You gotta toss that ballot out. It doesn't count.

1 (6m 40s):
Hmm, you know before this ruling

2 (6m 43s):
many municipalities including Philadelphia counted ballots that were quote-unquote Naked palettes there was guidance to do so now because of this state Supreme Court ruling you can't and so one election official in Philadelphia

1 (6m 59s):
actually the top election official here

2 (7m 1s):
estimated that as many as a hundred thousand ballots could

1 (7m 5s):
be tossed because of this rule. All

2 (7m 7s):
alone. So that is obviously very concerning to Democrats because so many of their voters are planning to vote by

1 (7m 15s):
mail. There's a concern that

2 (7m 17s):
because this is a first year in Pennsylvania that we've had. No, excuse me all voting. There's a lot of Voters who don't know exactly how it works Democrats also tend to have younger voters that often times.

1 (7m 28s):
Maybe don't know what the rules are in the same way that older voters do who have been doing this forever

2 (7m 34s):
and one thing that Democrats so have And

1 (7m 37s):
is really tried to build an education campaign to prevent, you know, a

2 (7m 43s):
hundred thousand ballots from

1 (7m 44s):
getting tossed out. And so we've seen

2 (7m 47s):
a massive campaign from

1 (7m 50s):
the Department of State here in

2 (7m 51s):
Pennsylvania has a campaign online trying to educate voters about what they need to do in terms of their secrecy ballots. You have the biting campaign. You have the DNC putting stuff out there with PSA is from celebrities on social media.

1 (8m 6s):
Oh I see. I saw that video. I'm naked. I'm completely back a snake man naked I'm like

2 (8m 13s):
naked there isn't a man behind me. These are my hands

1 (8m 17s):
why you want me to be naked and then like Sasha Baron Cohen was in there as borad but not

2 (8m 22s):
naked but he was like totally dressed. Yes. I'm here to talk to you about voting. Did you know that ballots could be

1 (8m 29s):
naked and if you don't do exactly what I tell you your ballot could get

2 (8m 32s):
thrown out America needs you. And then actually elected officials did a similar sort of

1 (8m 42s):
skit. Oh, no. Um, yeah. I know. Did they get bacon to they did?

2 (8m 47s):
Yeah, I know

1 (8m 51s):
and just to take the fun and and laughter and games out of this Holly a hundred thousand ballots might be thrown out. How many votes did Donald Trump win, Pennsylvania by in 2016?

2 (9m 5s):
That's a great question. Lee 44,000 that was less than one percentage point and so hundred thousand votes. That's more than twice that amount. It could definitely swing an

1 (9m 17s):
election and there's still one issue left, which is that some mail-in ballot requests have just been straight up tonight.

2 (9m 25s):
Yeah, so I'm going to tell you a scary statistic and then I'm going to dial it back. Okay one out of every five requests for a mail-in ballot or being rejected in

1 (9m 34s):
Pennsylvania 20% right now are being

2 (9m 37s):
Ejected. Yeah, 370,000 mail ballot applications that have been rejected. Okay, that sounds really terrible. Here's the thing that makes less scary more than 90 percent of those are duplicates. So there are people asking for a mail ballots twice or three times or four times. Oh, so the real problem here though is that that's just putting a ton of stress on the system that is trying to implement widespread male voting for the first time ever in a general election. Even these election offices are already super bogged down there getting calls all the time. You know, this is leading to things like busy lines, right when voters already have tons of questions.

2 (10m 18s):
It's just overwhelming the system at a time that it really doesn't need that

1 (10m 23s):
do people feel like Pennsylvania in 2020 might end up looking something like Florida in

2 (10m 28s):
2000. Unfortunately, that's a comparison that I've heard more times than I would have ever like to in my entire life. Are you hear that from elected officials? election officials and from

3 (10m 39s):
voters

1 (10m 46s):
So what should Pennsylvania voters keep in mind with all of these issues as they head to the ballots be at this week next week or on Election Day itself.

2 (10m 57s):
I would say that election officials say that your vote is secure and don't panic as long as you follow the rules whether you're voting by mail or in person your vote will be

1 (11m 9s):
counted. Holly thank you all the best in the next two weeks and maybe we'll be in touch come election day.

2 (11m 20s):
Thanks so much for having me on

1 (11m 25s):
that was Holly Otterbein. She's with Politico. You can find her reporting it politico.com quick break, then we'll talk about the efforts to block the votes everywhere else in the country. I'm Sean Rama's from its today explained. Support for the shutter day comes from Babel not that movie with Brad Pitt. And what was her name? She's in all those movies.

1 (12m 5s):
Not Kate Winslet Cate Blanchett. Not that one. It's it's the one that like teaches you how to speak languages online like really speak them like a new language in weeks like the 10 to 15 minute lessons that are thoughtfully created by language. Who's teaching methods have been scientifically proven to be effective across multiple studies that Babble they even have speech recognition technology that helps improve your pronunciation and accent right now when you purchase a three-month subscription Babble will give you today explain listener three additional months for free with the promo code explain that it's three additional months free. If you go to babble.com and use the promo code explained on your three-month subscription.

1 (12m 48s):
That is be a BBE l.com promo code explained

2 (12m 58s):
I called one of my friends every day. I take breaks to play Solitaire until

1 (13m 1s):
I win three times. I haven't

2 (13m 3s):
worn real pants in

1 (13m 5s):
probably six months. I'm serious. Making now work looks different for everyone Xerox can help but right

2 (13m 13s):
now a lot stands in the way of

1 (13m 15s):
making work easy from juggling remote teams and increased IT

2 (13m 19s):
issues to attempting to achieve IRL personalization in a URL setting

1 (13m 23s):
now is a weird time

2 (13m 26s):
Xerox automates and digitized as your workflows. So you and your team's can access them anywhere. They

1 (13m 30s):
bring together opportunities to help you better engage your customers with personalized experiences, and they make remote work easier with responsive a'ight. Infrastructure to support your team's wherever they are. So even if making now work means having two lunches or setting cam Free Fridays Xerox has a solution for you. Learn more at Xerox.com box. Jen Kirby you're covering elections for Vox. We just spoke to Holly about some of the challenges Pennsylvania's facing. But what does this look like across the rest of the country?

2 (14m 8s):
Well, there are battles around the entire country. There are about 300 lawsuits regarding voting elections that are going on right now 300. Yeah 300, I think more than 300. Actually. It's everything you could. Simply imagine about you know, when balance can be received by to be counted whether you can cure your ballot if there's a mistake whether you can use drop off locations or drop boxes. It is pretty much across the board when it comes to elections that people are battling out in court right now.

1 (14m 40s):
I imagine if we tried to talk about all three hundred odd lawsuits, we'd be here until after the election but is there some through-line does the sort of broad view of these lawsuits? Tell us anything about this election?

2 (14m 53s):
Yeah, and I think the pandemic has really made us as a country. Think about the ways that we vote the mechanics of voting in a way that maybe we haven't in the past before and a lot of states in order to accommodate, you know, safety considerations and health considerations with the pandemic changed or tweaked those rules. And so those are facing a lot of Court challenges as well.

1 (15m 16s):
Okay? Well, let's go through some of the bigger challenges or lawsuits. Are there more happening in Battleground States?

2 (15m 23s):
In Pennsylvania, there's about 46 states that are facing challenges. So that's pretty much everywhere. But of course people are paying attention to the Battleground States like Pennsylvania, you know, Michigan, Wisconsin because those are the states where the election could hinge on and so depending on what happens in the lawsuit that could make a big difference

1 (15m 41s):
what's going on in Wisconsin and Michigan

2 (15m 44s):
in Michigan and Wisconsin there were both court cases over, you know, how long ballots could be counted for if they were postmarked. By election day, but receive later. We are moving full steam ahead to the 2020 presidential election. Right now. Your absentee ballots is still due by 8 p.m. On November 3rd, as a federal appeals court temporarily halted a Six-Day extension for counting absentee ballots in Wisconsin. But at least in the Wisconsin case, there is an appeal to the Supreme Court

1 (16m 14s):
which of course weighed in in Pennsylvania last night what's going on in the rest of the country? There's big news in California about fake ballot.

2 (16m 23s):
Since yeah, so this I guess is less of a court case than just like a really weird thing. Apparently the California Republican party had put out these basically drop off or Dropbox is that said they were sort of a official ballot drop offs, but they weren't they weren't authorized by the state. And so, you know, California officials as Secretary of State and the Attorney General basically like

1 (16m 49s):
tampering with the vote is illegal. And anyone who engages knowingly engages in the tampering or misuse of a vote is subject to the condition

2 (17m 4s):
and they were only in a few counties. But the Republican Party kind of pushed back a little bit and

1 (17m 10s):
said state law allows organizations volunteers for campaign workers to collect completed ballots and drop them off at polling places or election offices

2 (17m 19s):
as of last week. They kind of came to an agreement that the Republican party would make sure that the labeling was clear that these weren't authorized drop boxes and would be manned by a republican officials. They wanted to collect ballots and you know told voters to make sure that they you know, track their balance to make sure that their ballot was counted if they happen to put their ballot in one of these things but really the California government was afraid that these would confuse, you know folks who wanted to turn in their ballots because the labeling wasn't clear and in a lot of ways it's sort of Ironic because you know, the Republican party has been fighting drop off locations and drop boxes across the country saying that there are a tool of fraud which they really aren't because most drop boxes, you know states have different rules, but you know, they have to be monitored or you know surveilled by a camera 24 hours a day.

2 (18m 12s):
So the Republican party in California kind of created the fraud that it claims they exist. So sort of just a weird strange case. That somewhat teams have been result

1 (18m 27s):
in Texas had some of its own Dropbox issues. Is this what you're referring to is saying this was kind of happening across the country on some level.

2 (18m 33s):
So in Texas the Battle Is Over the actual drop off locations that some counties had set up where people in Texas could drop off their absentee ballots if they didn't want to put them in the mail, but the Republican Governor Greg Abbott in that case basically asked the court to intervene and shut down. The drop-off location saying counties could only have one and he cited sort of election security concerns as well in that case. The governor said he did this to enhance security and that this would help prevent any attempts of illegal

1 (19m 7s):
voting and we might be dancing around this but I wonder you know for people listening to this abroad who might be looking at this election and wondering why so many parties would be invested in suppressing the vote in encouraging people to Doubt our election. Why is that happening? Why does it seem to be one part I doing this more than the other

2 (19m 32s):
how much time do you have Shawn got about two weeks. I mean the history of voter suppression of the United States as well get deep and you know at different points in history, you know different parties were responsible for the majority of it. But I think what it comes down to right now is that Republicans kind of broadly think that if they can prevent The electorate from expanding that that will benefit them and Democrats dig some more people. That's what the more people will get involved that might benefit them and that's sort of where the lines are drawn right now. It's really hard to say if that's the actual case because you would think in a democracy. We should all sort of be committed to having as many people vote as possible and you know voter suppression tends to suppress votes of all people in States like Utah where you have Republicans in power.

2 (20m 21s):
They're happy with expanding the vote. They So have Universal vote by mail because you know, they're not really worried about you know, changing of the guards but in Texas where it's purple turning blue Republicans in power want to sort of keep it that way and if you think of it in that sense, I think it's sort of help with understand a little bit about the debates in the fights that we're having right now.

1 (20m 41s):
You've been talking to people who study elections whose expertise is in American elections. Do they think this is going to get worse in the next two weeks or even Beyond then?

2 (20m 54s):
If you want to say got a little bit of a positive note a lot of you know folks that I've talked to who study voting and election law actually say it's a little bit better that we're litigating all of these election rules. Now rather than after the fact even though people are voting and things are unsettled and that can be confusing. It's much better to be doing this before November 3rd, then after November 3rd it may in the long run make it less likely that we have some major Court challenge that people are worried about it doesn't roll it out. It doesn't mean it's impossible. But I think most people I talk to say better to battle it out now than after.

1 (21m 32s):
Fingers crossed.

2 (21m 35s):
Yeah, early voting has starred in a lot of States. You should go if you can and vote early if you want to vote by mail, if you haven't requested your ballot you do it immediately like literally pause the podcast Go request your ballot. And as soon as you get it, make sure you read it very very carefully and then either send it back in or drop it off. But the goal is we won't really have to worry so much about you know, if the ballots received after November 3rd counter not if everybody gets their ballot in early that's not something we need to worry about and so that will make the system run smoother and that will be good for everyone.

1 (22m 27s):
Jen Kirby she's writing all about the election at vox.com and in vox.com vote. You can find all the good information you need about how to vote all over these United States again. That is vox.com / vote. This is Sam's olenick. I'm an assistant managing editor at the New York Times. Our Newsroom has been empty since March, but we've been busier than ever before the pandemic has changed how we work, but it hasn't changed what we do. This is why we became journalists to bring to light real verified information when the stakes couldn't be higher.

1 (23m 7s):
We can't do this work without our subscribers. If you'd like to subscribe, please go to nytimes.com / subscribe and thanks. Xerox wants to help you make now work because right

2 (23m 19s):
now there are a lot of things getting in the way of

1 (23m 22s):
that work pivot to future-ready solutions that will help your business Thrive and take on this new normal at Xerox dot-coms Vox Xerox automates and digitizes your system. So being remote doesn't slow down your flow and when you need to offer personalized care to a customer Xerox helps you do so with tech solutions that feel human

2 (23m 41s):
learn more about how to transform your business for these

1 (23m 43s):
Changing Times at Xerox Dom. calm box