3 (13s):
Remember back when there were like 20 Democratic candidates vying for the nomination. There are a lot of old white guys, but there were a fair number of candidates who weren't when they'd all get up on stage together for a debate the Democratic party almost looked like America and then there was last night six candidates on stage debating all of them white most of them have got 60 or 70 birthdays under their belts with just two weeks until the Iowa caucus. It is clear that things Changed it happened over the course of the past month Kamala Harris dropped out in December who lie on Castro dropped out in early January and then just on Monday Cory Booker gave up Booker stop by boxes Offices here in DC late last week.

3 (60s):
His campaign wasn't in great shape at the time and I asked him what went so wrong. Well, I think the DNC did not realize that they were making rules that were new. We've never seen before that. Timidly has ended up advantaging people who have either a lot of money personally who can hack the system or people who through their sort of Personality well-known can get money quickly working against the candidates who are actually become president for our party in the past where people that were way behind from the most of the campaign Jimmy Carter low single digits Bill Clinton loseing with Barack Obama going to Iowa caucuses National polls 15 20 points behind and they've actually design rules.

3 (1m 41s):
That would have kept some of our nominees off remember One month before the Iowa caucuses John Kerry John Edwards word for percent and 2 percent sixth and seventh in the polling than would go on and finish Iowa one and two and be your vice president and presidential candidates. Yeah, when you make the whole election about National polls, we would not have had presidents like Clinton and Carter and Obama. We National polls did not predict their winning heck National Post in predict the last president they were wrong. And so I say this from Iowans and they laugh I joke with him. I say you all are pretty good at defining. Sighing what the national polls are telling you to vote for polling is not the industry. And so when you see people like Castro and Kamala Harris, I've worked with lots of people in politics.

3 (2m 23s):
These are two of the more talented people that through their lived experiences were bringing things to the table that made so many Americans of Corp part of our Democratic voting base right feel the sense of Pride and gratitude when they left because they didn't have enough money to get to the voters the actual people who vote even, you know, black women who my own Family were supporting me were like angry and felt some kind of way that a woman that could win twice in California Statewide and be extraordinary Stand Out rising star in the Senate can't even get to Iowa to be voted upon and and that is very problematic. That's the party side of it. What about the people side of it? What about Joe Biden still being the front-runner in National polling does the party still want Biden because of his connection to Obama instead of someone like you never before.

3 (3m 13s):
For In Our Lifetime has a front-runner in the Democratic party throughout ever gone on to be president, you know, when mondal gor even Hillary Clinton the last lecture all FrontRunner. The only people have ever gone to the White House for people like me who are come-from-behind people people that the national media wasn't given that much of a chance, but then came into those early states that you have to win by your connection to people by your ability to organize by your ability to convince people in town halls. Those are the people that have gone on to win. In our party, so love Joe Biden a swarming into the United States Senate, but to exclude from the stage people that are different people that don't have the money or the popularity or the name recognition and not even giving them a chance to make their case when we clearly see the last person to make the debate stage as somebody who's been spending tens of millions of dollars on TV.

3 (4m 3s):
Trust me if I had that money we would be on the debate stage. And and so that's problematic that the party that's saying we want to get big money out of Politics the party that saying that we think there's too much much of an influence of concentrated wealth to create a system that can be so easily hacked by it Senator Booker and I talked a bunch more we talked about his campaign and whether his message of love was really the right one for this moment and a lot of the conversation feels kind of moot now that he's dropped out but what he said about polling and the new rules and posed by the DNC struck a chord, so I asked vaux's L and Nelson if there's truth to it, she's been covering this election season most recently from New Hampshire and we started with a simple question.

3 (4m 43s):
Is he right?

1 (4m 44s):
I mean in a sense he is. I mean it's kind of ironic because basically DNC chair Tom Perez kind of had this job of trying to figure out how to try to give everybody a fair shake or you know appear to give everybody a fair Shake on the debate stage. There were 20 candidates running at that point. It was ginormous. I mean this was back when we were having two different debate nights because we literally couldn't get everybody on a single stage in one night. So they came up with these new requirements that Booker is talking about out that folks would have to make a pulling requirement and this could either be a certain percentage in National polls or a certain percentage in a number of qualifying early State polls.

1 (5m 24s):
So polls in Iowa and New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina, and then Additionally you would have to have a fundraising threshold that you met and rather than just it being a you know, lump sum that you had to meet you also had to have a certain number of donations a threshold of donations that Matt Perez told me in an interview back in the spring. This was sort of supposed to be a way to respond to the party's Grassroots to make sure that the Grassroots were included and to try to be more inclusive of candidates and responsive to the Grassroots wing of the party. And what Booker is saying is that this did the opposite that sort of these thresholds that increased each time.

1 (6m 6s):
There is a new debate. There's debates every month each time these thresholds increased it kind of kept. It winnowing down the field which is sort of what the DNC designed it to do. But at the same time it shut out these candidates that were polling low who you know really needed to make the debate stage for people to get exposed to them in addition to their early State campaigning. So it was sort of almost like the debates became these mini primaries themselves and we kept sort of seeing people drop out after they failed to qualify to make the debate

3 (6m 42s):
thresholds and Note that the fields now 12, but only six made the stage last night. Yes exactly Senator Booker and Andrew Yang both met the donor threshold for last night's debate, but their poll numbers are what kept them off stage but these are certainly two candidates voters. Like is there something that these poles are missing or even getting wrong by chance?

1 (7m 6s):
I don't think that the poles are necessarily wrong. I just think that it's part of Of a really tough situation of still being in a pretty massive field having so much Focus beyond the the for Front Runners at this point who are all white, you know, we're talking about Biden Warren Sanders and Pete Buddha judge, but I think that it is a combination of the size of the field and sort of struggling to break through these debate requirements. And then also the fact that people in the early states that Booker is talking about, you know, the ones that he was sort of Trying to rest his campaign whether you know to do well in Iowa like Barack Obama did well in Iowa.

1 (7m 49s):
A lot of people are are sort of worried about this electability question. And so a lot of people are I feel like becoming a little bit more risk averse than they might have been in past elections because there is sort of this Specter of you know, a general election with Donald Trump looming over all of this and everybody is well aware that whoever they pick, you know could be the Democratic nominee that person is going to have to go up against Umph and so when you're sort of caught in this Loop this kind of feedback loop of like low polling and not getting on the debate stage. So you're not getting the exposure voters that I have talked to you in New Hampshire definitely start to take notice and I have heard with folks like Booker sometimes with Amy Klobuchar who was on the debate stage last night, you know, I really like that candidate.

1 (8m 36s):
They really speak to me. I you know, I think they're really smart. I think they're really great, but they're not pulling well. Which makes me think that other people don't like them and that makes me nervous because we need to have somebody that everybody likes to defeat Donald

3 (8m 51s):
Trump. What is it about a Booker or a Kamala Harris or a hooley on Castro? That didn't strike a chord the way say a mayor Pete

1 (9m 1s):
it. Well, you have to remember that so that with the order of the early States. I mean there are four in total but Iowa goes first New Hampshire goes second and these are the to most white States like they are New Hampshire is like 90% totally white people. I was something around like, you know 85 and I think that is tough. I mean Barack Obama kind of had this electricity in 2008 where he was, you know able to do really well in Iowa, but I think this time around not to say that, you know Booker and Harris were pulling super well in South Carolina because I think that the poles there showed that folks like Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders Two white candidates were we're doing better among African-American voters in South Carolina as well.

1 (9m 48s):
But the fact is is that in order to do well in Nevada and South Carolina you first have to do well in Iowa New Hampshire which are to overwhelmingly white States. So you're meeting a lot of older white voters and I think a lot of these folks that I have talked to in New Hampshire when they look back at like what went wrong in 2016. They're really focused on sort of this idea. Idea of a Rust Belt working-class white voter that didn't turn out for Hillary Clinton and voted with Donald Trump. And I think that they are sort of more anxious about what that person has to think in the 2020 general election than say, you know, a black voter in Michigan who didn't turn out or a black voter in the South who didn't turn out there kind of worried about other white people.

3 (10m 40s):
Okay, so the field is looking a lot less diverse, but there's at least still two women who are on the stage during last night's debate. Right? And it's not like anyone sitting around asking whether a woman can beat President Trump. Right? Right. That's in a minute on today

1 (10m 57s):
explained.

3 (11m 9s):
Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus only in America Dia odd tax

1 (11m 30s):
after you see the ticket

3 (11m 32s):
Place only in America can such a part like the game exist Face Forward hamburgers. These Burgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America. But in America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria. These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live.

3 (12m 13s):
Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to tv.com All.com the show is called Little America 8 episodes check them out now. Hey, it is Ezra Klein. And I want to tell you about an exciting Episode VII has reclined show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics has changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us. So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free in your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt from the Today

1 (13m 4s):
today explain

3 (13m 7s):
Ella. I don't love the idea of covering these like internecine scuffles between the candidates but this one sort of blew up last night in a way that maybe felt worth talking about so what is going on between Elizabeth Warren and Bernard Sanders

1 (13m 23s):
well as one activist put it yesterday to the New York Times mom and dad are fighting. Just sort of set the stage on where this is all coming from so over the weekend Politico first reported that Sanders campaign was going negative on Warren in a script that volunteers had when they were calling people to ask them who they were voting for

3 (13m 49s):
volunteers for the Sanders campaign were given scripted talking points criticizing Warren and suggesting her supporters are elitist. I was disappointed to hear that Bernie is sending his Volunteers out to trash me

1 (14m 3s):
and then a couple days later CNN had this bombshell report that back in 2018 when Sanders and Warren had this meeting before they announced their candidacies basically to sort of like acknowledge that both as two very prominent progressives were going to run for the Democratic nomination sort of kind of lay out. What a so-called non-aggression pact to basically be like, I'm not going to go after you you don't go after me. Let's promote Progressive issues and everybody. Is good. And then this week we sort of saw that fall apart Sanders told Warren. He did

3 (14m 37s):
not believe a woman could win according to four sources to people warned spoke with directly and two others familiar with the

1 (14m 44s):
meeting and Warren came out and confirmed that account of the

3 (14m 49s):
meeting Sanders himself forcefully, denying the characterization as ludicrous saying in a statement pnn. It's sad the three weeks before the Iowa caucus and a year after that private conversation staff who weren't in the room. You are lying about what

1 (15m 3s):
happened. And so of course this came up last night at the debate Sanders asked about it again denied that he had said that a woman couldn't win in 2020 and I

3 (15m 15s):
don't want to waste the whole lot of time on this because this is what Donald Trump and maybe some of the media want anybody knows me knows that it's incomprehensible that I would think that a woman cannot be president of the United States go to YouTube today. There are some video of the of me third. Years ago talking about how a woman could become president of the United States

1 (15m 35s):
and it didn't so much go into the continuation of what it had become which was sort of a he said she said situation

3 (15m 43s):
Hillary Clinton won the popular vote by 3 million votes. How could anybody in a million years not believe that a woman could become president of the United States and let me be very clear if any of the women on this stage or any of the men on this stage when the Ation, I hope that's not the case. I hope it's me. But if they do, I will do everything in my power to make sure that they are elected in order to defeat the most dangerous president in the history of our country.

1 (16m 15s):
And then the ball was in warrants court and rather than sort of saying no Bernie, you're lying. You did say this. She kind of went off on this tangent about gender and you know who can win elections this kind of obsession over whether a woman Can't win 2020 because Clinton ultimately lost the Electoral College to Trump this question about whether or not a woman can be president has been raised and it's time for us to attack it head-on and I think the best way to talk about who can win is by looking at people's winning record. So kind of woman beat Donald Trump look at the men on this stage collectively.

1 (16m 55s):
They have lost ten elections. The only people on this stage who have won. Every single election that they've been in are the women Amy.

3 (17m 9s):
Is that still a question that the Democratic party is asking itself that the country is asking

1 (17m 13s):
itself? Yeah, I think 2018 was the year of the woman and now two years later, you know rather than just being like okay 2018 showed us that women. In fact can win there is all of this hand-wringing going on again because ultimately this is a person who is not going to be sort of a symbolic rebuke to Donald Trump. It is the election to see whether or not Donald Trump is going to get elected again. And so But he is like guys we really can't screw this up. But also everybody has their different version of what electability means. So I've talked to voters who are like, you know, what yes a woman can like really hand it to Donald Trump on the debate stage and other people that just say, you know what I really just still don't think that America is ready for it and like hate to say it but I think that the country is still too misogynist for a woman candidate to go up against Trump and win

3 (18m 5s):
it just feels funny to have this conversation. About like whether a woman can be president when like someone who admitted to sexually assaulting women is the president like the bars seems so low at this point. How do Warren and Klobuchar talk about their electability on the campaign Trail is the point moot to them or are they actually making the case?

1 (18m 26s):
Oh, no, I mean Klobuchar is like literally that is the core of her message on the campaign Trail. I mean, she always likes to say like I have never lost an election since fourth grade when my slogan was all. With Amy K.

3 (18m 39s):
That is the most believable thing I've ever.

1 (18m 44s):
You have to be competent to win and you have to know what you're doing. And when you look at what I have done, I have won every race every place. Every time I have one in the reddest of districts. I have one in the Suburban areas in the rural areas. I have brought people with me and I mean climate are actually has like a good claim to electability and electability in the midwest which is like where everybody is worried about somebody being electable in 2020, you know, she's from Minnesota. Which is a state that has has a very Blue urban center in Minneapolis st. Paul in the Twin Cities, but you know a big chunk of the state is also pretty red and she has not only one there, but she has won by Massive margins like every time she has run for Statewide office that is like the core of her pitch to voters is you know, I know what these Trump voters want.

1 (19m 37s):
I know that they are ready to come back to the Democratic party and you know rather than a progressive like Sanders or War. Aaron who's over-promising all of these pie-in-the-sky ideas. Like I can really deliver concrete examples of things getting done and the change that they

3 (19m 52s):
want has the party changed at all. It was refreshing to get back to this original idea that we started with to see so many women gay veteran so many people of color a Latino candidate a few biracial candidates. One of them was half Indian, you know did something change in the party or is this sort of the same? That just has some more diverse candidates on the fringes will will the eventual nominee be sure to include a person of color as they're running mate or a woman as his running

1 (20m 25s):
mate. I think that that's definitely going to be a consideration. I mean, the reason that Stacey Abrams keeps getting talked about as a vice presidential, you know, potential vice presidential pick is you know, Democrats need black women in particular to turn out en masse for them in in 2020. It's not just sort of this, you know. No obsession over the Upper Midwest. It's kind of like a Democratic party that's almost like afraid of its own success and kind of what came after that people are really fearful of like the direction that the country went in 2016 and we haven't gotten out of it yet. We don't know the way to get out of it yet.

1 (21m 5s):
So I think people are really not sure if the way is to just stick with white candidates. But it sort of seems like that's kind of the direction. It's going now.

3 (21m 27s):
Elena nilsen covers politics at vaux. She's in New Hampshire until the primary next month. You can follow her work and vox.com or on Twitter at Ella underscore Nilsson. That's n IL SE n I'm Sean. I'm at Rama's firm. The show is at today underscore explained. I don't know if you remember but in a WIC interview in 2016 right after Kanye West said that he wanted to run for president in 2020.

3 (22m 12s):
I asked you if you would support his candidacy and at the time I'm scared ha ha ha now in this season where Donald Trump is doing so well again if Donald Trump can do it. So can Kanye West and Kanye West might do it with a lot more style and a better haircut. Do you still think on you should run? No. No, definitely not. Definitely. Not you miss the old Kanye. Yes God. I miss the old Kanye. All right center Broken. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. Cheers shape on the go Kanye chop up the so Kanye said on his goals Kanye. I hate the new Kanye the bad mood Kanye the always rude Kanye spending the news Kanye.

3 (22m 56s):
I'm just a sweet Kanye

1 (22m 58s):
West Kanye. I gotta say at that time. I like to meet Kanye.