1 (2s):
British prime minister, Boris Johnson kicked off the week with what looked like a diminishing degree of confidence.

2 (9s):
There's also some breaking news from London tonight where Boris Johnson has narrowly survived a vote of no confidence by

1 (15s):
That means, at least for now he can get back to business as usual, which in his case means deporting migrants to Rwanda.

3 (22s):
Those who have arrived illegally since January the first may now be relocated to Rwanda.

1 (29s):
If you're some poor Syrian fleeing, a president who might want to murder, you, maybe get to France, use a paddle boat to make your way to the United Kingdom and hope to plead for asylum. You can get a letter in the mail and it might just say you're being sent to Rwanda. Why the UK is trying to send asylum seekers to Rwanda and whether the wealthy governments of the world are just kind of done with asylum altogether ahead, until they explained Support for the shelter they comes from future. You know, the guy with the song about the masks on or the masks off. No, I'm sorry. Sorry. I'm getting now. I'm getting a messenger. Future. Is the app shaking up?

1 (1m 10s):
How people think about exercise and self motivation might be by pairing you with your own personal fitness coach. Future holds you accountable and helps you work towards your goals. With the support of an expert. Get started right now with 50% off your first three months at try future.com/explained again, that is try future.com/explained again, not the rapper future the app, the app or future goodbye today explained Sean Rama's from Boris Johnson survived a no competence vote on Monday.

1 (1m 58s):
That means his government can get back to governing Britain. What are its plans there? Shafi Musa Deak Britain correspondent at the Christian science monitor is here to explain

5 (2m 17s):
It's offloading immigrants.

6 (2m 20s):
And we have spotted another small rib, which appears to be a migrant boom.

5 (2m 25s):
You have landed in Britain from France via tiny thingies and boats.

7 (2m 31s):
This small ding gate, probably three, four meters long. We think there's maybe 12, 13 on board, a couple of small children at the front and a couple of women

5 (2m 40s):
And essentially deporting them too, for wonder, which is what many legal campaigners say contravenes human rights. And they says a massive policy that essentially appeases a lot of voters from the conservative party bar Shults, and says that this will save lives from human trafficking and people smuggling, gangs

3 (3m 6s):
The most tragic of all forms of illegal migration, which we must end with this approach is the barbaric trade in human misery conducted by the people's modelers in the channel,

5 (3m 21s):
His home secretary, the interior minister Priti Patel says that it's going to be a game-changing solution to illegal immigration.

8 (3m 29s):
This government is delivering the first comprehensive overhaul of the asylum system and this type of illegal migration in decades,

5 (3m 37s):
Did these messages come from a government that was elected off the back of Brexit. Brexit was not totally, but in some parts and the anti-immigrant campaign to break away from Europe, which succeeded ultimately, and this threads goes back 20 to 30 years of inadequate messaging for multiple governments, stoking fears of losing sovereignty over migration policy,

3 (4m 5s):
Just as Brexit allowed us to take back control of legal immigration. We're also taking back control of illegal immigration.

5 (4m 12s):
That's been routine talk of targeting immigration if the past 25 years and then Brexit happened and Bosch Johnson is following up on this promise to tackle it and clamp down on migration. It's it's 30 years in the making this it's not something that's happened overnight.

1 (4m 35s):
And I think a question, a lot of people in our listening audience will have is why Rwanda?

5 (4m 43s):
The reason why is it goes back to good old colonialism and Britain is revisiting those links after Brexit. There's been a pivot away from Europe, back to Africa and Asia and Rwanda in, in Britain's eyes is a young population. It definitely is demographically. And so for Britain, this is an opportunity to build new trade relationships further down the roads.

9 (5m 10s):
We can't wait for you to visit Rhonda SU

5 (5m 15s):
Think of it as a sort of getting to know each other face.

9 (5m 19s):
You climb that mountain, swim, those waters and Trek to experience the wonders of nature.

5 (5m 28s):
This isn't necessarily about immigration for Britain, for Britain. And this is also about trade and Rwanda represents that post-Brexit

10 (5m 36s):
Small landlocked and with limited natural resources, the country is relying on new technology to drive its economy forward.

5 (5m 44s):
Rwanda needs the money, but whose hands it goes to. We don't know. Britain says that the money will go to Rwandans and the ground for one does on the ground. Don't believe that for one moment, Rwandans are not happy about this deal.

11 (6m 3s):
If Rwanda's kids has not the possibility to go at a school because of the poverty, how Rhonda government, we assume to give education to the kids of this refugees.

5 (6m 16s):
Listen, Rwanda has taken a huge number of refugees and immigrants from other parts of neighboring Africa

11 (6m 26s):
For the last 28 years. We've hosted more than 130,000 refugees from neighboring countries. We also have the experience of being refugees or displaced because of our recent history of conflict. So we know what it means to be desperate,

5 (6m 39s):
Welcoming country in many senses, but they're also very poor and they're still recovering from a very famous genocides and civil strife. They're on the up for sure. But Rwandans on the grounds are very skeptical.

1 (6m 59s):
Do we know how many migrants might get sent to Rwanda?

5 (7m 4s):
So we know that one hundreds people I've so far been issued letters of deportation. They're due to fly out on June the 14th. That's just the tip of the iceberg Afghans in particular making boat crossings between France and the UK. Almost as many Afghans have crossed the channel from January to March this year, about 1094. That's more than the whole of last year. So you can see that more and more people are crossing the English channel.

1 (7m 39s):
And what happens to these Syrians or Afghans or Ethiopians once they get to Rwanda, do they get some of the reported hundred and 20 million pounds? Boris Johnson is giving Rwanda for this program.

5 (7m 54s):
They absolutely will not receive a single penny.

12 (7m 58s):
This used to be a hostile, but it's already being prepared for the arrival of asylum seekers from the UK. There are 50 rooms in this block, including places to eat and sleep.

5 (8m 8s):
So their journey will be that they will end up in large-scale hotel, accommodation on the outskirts of the capital city Kigali. Now a lot of the footage that's been pumped out needs. Now of these accommodation, they look quite swanky. They put a pool, there's double beds, there's a kitchen sink, but we don't know how many people will be fitted into one room. So there's a double bed, but there could be six to seven people in one room. We're told that they will be retraining education and jobs for these people. But again, the details are murky and this is why there's a legal challenge from human rights.

5 (8m 53s):
Campaigners

13 (8m 54s):
Refugee law says you can't penalize some deeper being forced to travel legally when it's not their fault. And we're going to challenge that in court,

5 (9m 2s):
Please breaches the 1951 refugee convention made after the end of the second world war. After the Holocaust, the convention recognizes that most refugees have no choice, but to travel irregularly and it prohibits governments from penalizing them for doing so.

1 (9m 25s):
And for these people who are effectively being sent away to Rwanda for a regular immigration, what kind of status will they have? Their,

5 (9m 33s):
They definitely won't be applying or won't have the capacity to apply for British residency. The only routes that they have is to apply for residency in Rwanda. Now, if that's rejected, they get sent back. Home. Home is Afghanistan, Syria, to all these regimes that could persecute a lot of these people. Some of these people are fleeing regimes because they're being persecuted for their sexuality. It's a lot of LGBT asylum seekers and that's what they face. If they go back home, I've spoken to a few migrants and I spoke to one man, Afghan man.

5 (10m 23s):
And he told me that he would rather kill himself than go to Rwanda for them. There's no hope in Rwanda. They want to come to Britain and listen. Britain has extensive family support for a lot of these people. If you're a lonely person, you're on the run from a repressive regime, you destitute, you will go to your family networks. And this is what some of these people are doing. Why Rwanda is their question and they're not deterred. There's the migrants that I've spoken to say, they're not deterred by this plan. If anything, it would just mean that the smugglers are paid much more money.

1 (11m 13s):
So there are already lawsuits flying around. And it sounds like this is totally antithetical to the asylum policies that were established after the second world war after the Holocaust. But the Johnson government wants to pursue this anyway,

5 (11m 26s):
They do, but they have a track record for low braking in the UK. Right now,

14 (11m 31s):
The core of many people's frustration, the so-called party gate scandal in which he and staff held illegal drinking gatherings during the country's COVID lockdowns Johnson was fine by police,

5 (11m 43s):
But let's not forget. This is political. And there's a general election coming up in about 18 months time. So they're testing the water here.

3 (11m 52s):
We expect this will be challenged in the courts.

5 (11m 55s):
And that's a gamble that could backfire because of everything that's happening in Ukraine sentiment against migrants has suddenly become more positive because of the war in Ukraine, Britain's have opened the arms do Ukrainians.

15 (12m 11s):
And just the week we seen seven and a half thousand people who say that they want to open their homes to welcome refugees.

5 (12m 19s):
So this is in one sense and making golf anti-immigrant policy because of Brexit, but it's come at a time. That's where the trend is going. The other way, the wind is blowing the other way and breaths for the first time in a long time, at least look like the opening, the arms up to foreigners. Now, whether that extends to non-European refugees, whether that warmth extends to them, the question remains,

1 (12m 49s):
Are you saying that Ukrainians aren't going to get sent to Rwanda.

5 (12m 52s):
I'm highly skeptical. Actually in the migrant camps in Calais, which is on the coast of Northern France facing England. There were a few Ukrainians there, not lot. The Ukrainians there were targeted and taken away and put ahead of the pack and told to come to Britain. And the migrants were left in the Calais jungle camp said, why not us? We're being left behind. It's a clear indication of the good immigrant

1 (13m 30s):
If countries like the UK are just going to push immigrants to Rwanda or threatened to push immigrants, to Rwanda for political points. Why have asylum policies in place at all? We're going to ask in a minute on today, explained

16 (13m 51s):
Working these days means doing about 3000 different things at once. There's email, there's slack, there's pile of documents that need reviewing. Sean just texted me. And while switching between all those different apps might feel productive. That kind of multitasking makes you less efficient and more error. Prone is the claim. We're wired to focus on a single task at a time, one task in one place. And while one study found that 2.5% of people can multitask really well. The rest of us need a better solution. That solution could be Coda. Coda connects everything you need in one place, integrate the tools you rely on import from other platforms and build a workstation that actually works.

16 (14m 35s):
Update a document COTA and your changes instantly sync everywhere else. It's simple with Coda. Your team can operate using the same information quickly and efficiently. And right now you can get started. Get your team working together on the same page for free head over to coda.io/explained that's coda.io to get started for free coda.io/explained Online shopping has changed the way a lot of us live our lives. You girls got COVID. And yesterday I went online and I bought a pulse oximeter, which will be here by today.

16 (15m 15s):
I'm told the ability to go online and buy almost anything in the world is very special, but there are bumps that can be smoothed out. If your business is trying to improve payment, performance, checkout.com might be able to help. checkout.com is a leading digital global payment solutions provider for brands like shine, Patrion and Sony electronics with dedicated teams full of expertise in 19 offices, across five continents, it's built with performance, scalability and speed in mind. Online payments have changed a lot in the last several years and checkouts flexible system provides insights that help you get smart about your payments performance.

16 (15m 58s):
You can rely on their expertise as you navigate an ever shifting digital world. Discover how checkout.com can help your business thrive. By going to checkout.com/explained that's checkout.com/explained

1 (16m 24s):
We're back today explained Boris Johnson wants to send migrants to Rwanda seems like a total and utter violation of asylum agreement. So we figured we'd ask someone who knows their asylum to help us understand it.

17 (16m 36s):
I'm Eleanor painter. I'm a postdoctoral associate and migrations with Cornell university is Mario Natty center for international studies. And I host the podcast migrations a world on the move.

1 (16m 46s):
Eleanor, the Johnson administration is exporting migrants who want asylum in the United Kingdom to Rwanda. It sounds pretty exceptional is this kind of thing. Exceptional.

17 (16m 58s):
It's not exceptional. This is not a unique policy. Although we can certainly say that sending asylum seekers by plane, thousands of miles away is an especially extreme version of something that we have been seeing happen throughout the global north for some time now,

18 (17m 13s):
And then we'll ship it. Then it'll shift. This is, this is, did it

17 (17m 17s):
Since 2017. Italy has had a deal with Libya through which it funds and trains the Libyan coast guard to apprehend migrants who are trying to cross the Mediterranean sea to reach Europe and returns them to Libya where we know they're housed in detention centers,

9 (17m 32s):
An Italian boat brings migrants on board. Then it has to take them to Italy. And that's exactly what they're trying to avoid by calling the Libyans to take them away.

17 (17m 42s):
Israel actually had an, an older policy from 2013 where it was sending Sudanese and Eritrean nationals to Uganda. And

19 (17m 50s):
This man who's from Darfur told us that he was sent from Israel to Uganda with seven others and was left to fend for himself.

20 (17m 57s):
I was not given any document. Laura, get a passport, no get assistance from them. Nothing.

17 (18m 4s):
Australia has a really infamous offshore detention policy where it uses islands to detain people.

21 (18m 12s):
Unrest is common here. This is video supply to Dateline. This protest occurred just weeks earlier, but detention center staff aside and with media band, no one would have known about it

17 (18m 26s):
In the U S we have the migrant protection protocols. So this policy that's known colloquially as the remain in Mexico policy. Since 2018 central American migrants have been forced to remain on the Mexican side of the border while they wait for their cases to be processed.

22 (18m 42s):
Eddy, a 41 year old Cuban was deported after an attempt to cross the border last year and is waiting for the resolution to his asylum application.

23 (18m 51s):
Okay. You can make $30 in three days that if he wants to live with dignity, it is possible here in Mexico.

17 (18m 58s):
There's broad recognition that these policies fail in multiple ways. So in general, as border policies become stricter and stricter people essentially get funneled along more dangerous routes. That's why we see people crossing the Mediterranean sea crossing, the Sonoran desert and governments argue essentially that these dangerous journeys are the problem. And that policies like the UK Rwanda agreement will keep people safe by deterring them from attempting to cross and by keeping people out of the sea. But that's really a distraction from the reasons people end up on these routes in the first place. And it's also an oversimplification. The migrants themselves are often relying on smugglers to help them on their perilous journeys.

17 (19m 42s):
And just like the policies have funneled people along more dangerous routes. Further restrictions are also likely to make traffickers and smugglers have to adopt different strategies. So to say that the problem is the paths people are taking really ignores that they're being forced along these paths because of in large part policies in the global north,

1 (20m 2s):
We're talking about the highly controversial inhumane treatment of migrants is the UK looking at Mexico and the United States or Australia or Italy and going, yeah, we'll have some of that. Well, we'd like to replicate that situation.

17 (20m 20s):
The UK is definitely taking cues from other countries

24 (20m 25s):
And a 70 to 24 vote. Politicians agreed to move asylum seekers who arrive on Danish soil to a reception center and a third country outside Europe.

17 (20m 36s):
Denmark had a similar deal with Rwanda in the works prior to the UK deal. It's now likely to implement that. And we know that UK home secretary Petipa Battelle has consulted with Australian leaders. Who've implemented their offshore detention policy. Australia has seen migration from the middle east and south Asia in particular and people of course, crossing by boat. And they've been working for years to try to prevent those crossings

9 (21m 4s):
In hot and humid conditions. 400 single male asylum seekers, more than half from Sri Lanka have been living 16 men to attend.

17 (21m 14s):
But what they've done to do that sort of in the name of rescue and of security also is housed people out of Australia in these detention centers on islands. So they're housing them in Naru and in Manu, in Papa, new Guinea. And these are detention centers that have held people for sometimes years. There's a famous case of booze, blue Shawnee who's written and filmed about his experiences on Manu and the, the really inhumane conditions in which people are held there. So through stories like his, we have real evidence of the psychological consequences that these policies bear out on people who are detained.

17 (21m 55s):
Again, people who are fleeing conflict, fleeing extreme economic procarity increasingly, we're talking about people who are fleeing the consequences of climate change as well, and who are seeking safety and protection. And instead being held in extended periods of detention,

1 (22m 15s):
What do you call this kind of policy? Does it have a name? Is there, I mean, is there a term for offshoring offloading passing on your migrants to another country for some money?

17 (22m 28s):
There's no official single term in part, because these aren't internationally sanctioned policies, but you hear offshoring a lot. And that's what we're seeing in the Australian case in the UK through a Wanda example is certainly offshoring, but we might, might be more accurate to call it outsourcing. So they're really handing over asylum processing to Rwandan authorities and a sort of larger umbrella term that you hear in these cases is border externalization,

1 (22m 56s):
Border externalization.

17 (22m 58s):
Yeah. So meaning that countries implement policies that are effectively pushing their own borders out so that migrants can never even reach the border in order to enter the country.

1 (23m 12s):
I mean, we've talked about the history of asylum on the show before, at least in its modern political contexts, it's coming out of world war two are these types of programs that we're seeing in the United States and Australia and Italy now, the UK, are they suggesting that the so-called global north is done with asylum? Is this the new normal?

17 (23m 35s):
Is this the new normal? Yes. I think we're moving in this direction. I think it's always important to hold in mind that more than 80% of refugees in the film secrets live in global south. So what we think about as this asylum crisis for the global north, you know, when we talk about it in those terms, it really doesn't offer the fullest picture of migration and asylum. But we are talking about countries with a lot of power who are calling into question international agreements, asylum protocols, and the place of, of people's rights as they cross borders.

1 (24m 12s):
So not only is asylum being trampled on by various countries, but it's also just basically something that can be used as some political ploy in an election.

3 (24m 21s):
This problem has bedeviled our country for too long. And this is the government that refuses to duck. The difficult decision

1 (24m 30s):
Is anyone playing by the rules anymore? Or should they just sort of put an end to asylum formerly? I mean, why does this thing even exist? If no one cares about it anymore?

17 (24m 40s):
The ways that countries apply the refugee convention have always reflected political alliances and ideologies. So even though that convention and the has been revisited and protections have been expanded in multiple ways, it still remains really tied for example, to Western views on what merits protection. And I think that claims about closing borders and keeping some people from some places out really resonate with political basis. Right now I hesitate to call it the end of asylum. Although I think we are seeing movement towards some kind of conversation about, you know, what kind of accountability can we expect?

17 (25m 22s):
You know, we're definitely seeing challenges to the refugee convention and to international agreements about asylum and about rescue. And we're seeing those violations go relatively unchallenged. So yes, the asylum system is being tested and people are being held in procarity and losing their lives in the process. This is really a crucial moment for talking about what justice could look like in border spaces and for people who have to move to seek safety and protection. And this should really be a global conversation.

1 (26m 0s):
Eleanor painter is a postdoctoral associate at Cornell university. She also hosts a podcast it's called migrations a world on the move earlier in the show you heard from Shafi Mussa, Deak Britain correspondent at the Christian science monitor. Our show today was made by Halima Shaw. She had help from Matthew Collette, Paul mousey, Laura Bullard, Tori Dominguez, and me I'm Sean Rama's from this is to explain.