0 (0s):
Brazil just had its very own January 6th, Except it happened on January 8th. And instead of interrupting their country's democratic process in support of a right wing ex-president, the rioters and Insurrectionists stormed an empty capitol city and vandalized a bunch of empty capitol buildings. Still worth asking why Worth asking how Brazil handled it. Did they just let everyone walk back to their hotels and cars like we did in our country? Or did they, you know, arrest them? Are they gonna spend the next several years trying to determine who's at fault? Are they gonna wrap this up quickly? Are they gonna agree on what exactly happened during their insurrection or will they be divided?

0 (43s):
Did the Brazilian insurrectionists also poop everywhere? And what role did ex-President Jair Bolsonaro play, isn't he in Florida? Answers to those questions and more coming up on today, explained

4 (60s):
Dating apps, whether you're single in a relationship or summer in between, you can't get away from them. But what happens when your romantic life is part of a company's bottom line? How did dating become a multi-billion dollar business? I'm Lakshmi Renn,

5 (1m 16s):
And I'm Sangita Sing Kurtz. We are hosting Land of the Giants, a podcast about the biggest tech companies of our time.

4 (1m 23s):
This season we're exploring how apps like Tinder, hinge and Bumble impact our search for love

5 (1m 28s):
Land of the Giants dating games from the Verge, the Cut, and the Vox Media podcast network.

4 (1m 34s):
Subscribe for free wherever you listen and get our first episode on Wednesday, January 11th.

6 (1m 41s):
It's hard to make predictions about a new year just as it starts, but you're probably safe saying that 2023 will be bad for Hollywood.

2 (1m 50s):
All of these companies have either announced layoffs or have said that they are planning, hiring freezes or cost cutting in the new year. And that's a recession in my mind,

6 (2m 2s):
How a Hollywood recession might change what we watch for years to come. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast

0 (2m 17s):
Today explained Sean Ramos from when we saw Brazil taken after us in all the worst ways. We reached out to the Brazilian reports, Gustavo Hiro, based in Sao Paolo to find out what the heck was going on down there.

7 (2m 30s):
Well, over the weekend we saw dozens of buses carrying supporters of former president Bel Sundo heading. They gathered and marched for six and a half kilometers, four miles until the three power square, which is where all three branches of government are headquartered in Belia, the federal capital. They met very little resistance from police forces. And quickly what was an anti-democratic protest evolved into full scale riots. They stormed the Congress building, the Supreme Court and the Presidential Palace.

7 (3m 12s):
They destroyed millions of dollars in public property and things were not worse because the Brazilian Congress and Supreme Court are not in session during the month of January. And President Lula was not in Belia. But we have seen arguably the worst assault against democratic institutions in Brazil since the country became a democracy again in the mid eighties.

0 (3m 47s):
For people who haven't been paying attention to Brazilian politics until this moment, until people saw that Brazil did a January 6th, tell us what got us to this moment. You guys just had a big election. What were the stakes of that election?

7 (4m 4s):
Well, Sunday's events while worrisome, disappointing, they're not surprising. We have had a far right president between 2019 and the end of last year. He pitted his supporters against democratic institutions for years. And then after he lost reelection on October the 30th, Bo son Nado supporters started staging act of violence after act of violence. Each one seemed to announce a worst thing that would come. So right after Bo Sundo lost the election, and by the way, he still has not conceded the results.

7 (4m 44s):
We saw his supporters blocking federal roadways that are key to Brazilian supply chains

10 (4m 52s):
Was removed from his throne and we are going to put him back in power with the strength we, the lower drivers have.

7 (4m 58s):
Then they started camping outside of army garrison's across Brazil, asking for the armed forces to stage Acuta

11 (5m 7s):
Supporters of Brazil's President Jay son, marching towards military headquarters in Rio de Janeiro. They don't accept BOL son's defeat and want the armed forces to intervene

7 (5m 18s):
When Lola's victory was to be certified by electoral courts On December the 12th, they staged numerous acts of violence in Beil and even tried to storm the headquarters of the federal police in the Capitol. And on Christmas Eve, the police uncovered a bomb plot near the Belia airport.

12 (5m 38s):
Police said they'd foiled a bomb bloat arresting pro election Diah who said he was inspired to build up an arsenal by the out grain president's call to arms.

7 (5m 48s):
And all of this, the perpetrators said that they wanted to create chaos in order to prevent Lula from taking office by creating the, the conditions for a stage of siege that would lift constitutional rights temporarily and allow bolson to remain in power.

0 (6m 12s):
Bolson arrow's supporters are wreaking havoc in Brazil in the wake of the election. What is Bolsonaro himself doing?

7 (6m 19s):
Well, I would say Bol is giving himself the argument of plausible deniability. Bolson has practically disappeared from social media after he lost the election. He barely spoke publicly, but he has also done nothing to calm spirits of his supporters are condemned acts of violence in a farewell address that he broadcast on social media. On December the 30th, he said that violent acts are regrettable, but he said that always in that sort of underdog image, he wants to give himself that he's persecuted by the so-called dip state

13 (7m 8s):
During

7 (7m 8s):
The campaign, said that the only way he would not win with at least 60% of the vote was if there was foul play,

0 (7m 18s):
Which, which sets the stage for the events of, of this past weekend. Tell us how exactly we got to your January 6th, which transpired on January 8th.

7 (7m 29s):
So this far right movement is deeply rooted on social media. We have many wealthy businessmen supporting it with money. And we saw an effort to bring thousands of people to bud Azelia the federal capital in the middle of Brazil in order to stage a massive rally. And it doesn't take a rocket science to foresee what was about to happen because they were openly saying, we will grab power. This is the Brazilian spring.

14 (7m 59s):
Bolsonaro will win unless it's stolen by, guess what? The machines? The machines.

7 (8m 5s):
And it's a term that was coined by Steve Bannon who is close to the BOLs clan.

14 (8m 10s):
The machines. The machines.

7 (8m 11s):
So these people gathered outside of the Army headquarters in Melia, then they walked four miles until the congressional building where there was very little resistance. And it's important for people to know, people who don't know Bud Azelia, but Azil is a capital that by design is made to avoid this kind of scenes from happening

15 (8m 35s):
Was deliberately placed far in land to open up the nation's. Vast interior and ribbons of asphalt are planned to all parts of the country.

7 (8m 44s):
Also the three power square where we have Congress, the presidential palace in the Supreme Court. It's a vast open space.

15 (8m 52s):
The Planto Palace, palace of the Highlands, and the plaza of the three powers, executive, judicial and legislative form a triangle of architectural genius.

7 (9m 3s):
It's a place where if the police wants it can barricade the access points to government buildings.

0 (9m 10s):
So what you're saying is that like the police and the military could see this riot coming from literally hundreds if not thousands of miles away.

7 (9m 19s):
Yes, that's exactly what I'm saying. And also, members of the government and allies of the current central life government have directly accused the local authorities of condoning by omission. What happened because you have thongs of people marching to the Congress building and there were like just a couple of dozen policemen barricading their access there. Some tried to use pepper spray, but others were just taking selfies and filming the action where while people were trashing the congressional building. So I think it's safe to say at this point that there was malicious negligence as well.

7 (10m 3s):
Another interesting detail is that until Sunday, the top security official in was the man who served as justice minister and son.

0 (10m 13s):
So what happens when they finally get to Brazilia? What happens once they arrive to the capitol?

7 (10m 19s):
Well, they were gathering outside of the Army headquarters where thousands of Bo Nado protestors have camped for two months asking for a military coup. And by two o'clock on Sunday, they started marching towards Congress building. Now this is a one hour, one hour and a half walk, so it's not as if it was impossible to see this coming. It was not as if it was impossible for the police to mobilize its troops and barricade. They met very little resistance once they reached the police barricades.

7 (10m 60s):
A few policemen tried to use pepper spray, but they were just overwhelmed by the crowd. They stormed the ramp that leads to the congressional lobby while other groups went to the Supreme Court building, which is just meters away from there. And a third group stormed at the presidential palace. Now these are palaces that are covered in glass, so they shattered the glass, they invaded the lobby, the legislative chambers, they trashed the place. There were reports of blood, urine and fe in many areas of these official buildings.

7 (11m 40s):
And they stole documents. One thing that was interesting is that government members said that these rioters knew their, what they were doing and what they were looking for because they stormed one room in the presidential palace where the police stores guns and ammunition and including lethal weapons. And they stole these lethal weapons. We saw some trying to set fire to this buildings.

16 (12m 10s):
The incredible scenes unfolding in Brazil's capitol Sunday, thousands of protestors confronting police wielding makeshift weapons. All of it eerily similar to one of the ugliest chapters in American history to January 6th attacks.

7 (12m 29s):
The police only responded after the congressional building was trashed. The Supreme Court was destroyed in many places and Presidential Palace had people defecating all over the place. They used stunt guns. And then in a matter of a few hours, things stopped escalating. And then we saw a lot of reactions from the three branches of government. President Lula placed the security apparatus in the Capitol with azla under federal intervention, meaning that the poli local police forces were no longer under the jurisdiction of the governor, but responding to the federal government directly.

7 (13m 16s):
Also, the Supreme Court suspended the governor of Belia from office for 90 days because of his negligence to these events. And the solicitor general asked for the arrest of Beal's top security officer until Sunday. And that is a matter that the Supreme Court still has to rule on. But we have seen this coordinated effort of federal institutions trying to respond to this assault on democracy.

0 (13m 51s):
I mean it's, it's stunning. If you put the footage you know next to each other, it, it looks at times exactly the same, but in a different country with, with different flags waving. The one key difference here, and I think you alluded to this, is that in the United States on January 6th, 2021, you had these insurrectionists trying to disrupt the democratic process. On January 8th, 2023, you have these insurrectionists, I think breaking into a bunch of empty buildings. Is that right?

7 (14m 28s):
Yes, because Congress in Brazil, as the Supreme Court are not in session during the month of January. They will only be back to work in February. And also President Lola was not in Budil on Sunday. He was visiting a city in the countryside of Sao Paulo. So thousands of miles away. It's interesting because for two months these people said that they would prevent Lula from taking office and then they staged this massive assault against democratic symbols a week after his in-office a week after. What they feared the most was <unk> and it seems like a gratuitous act of vandalism, but it's also a way of them showing that they will try to destabilize this administration at every moment they can.

7 (15m 24s):
They will try to keep this government at bay. If you look at far right groups on Telegram, on WhatsApp, they're already talking about trying to boycott the financial system, trying to find ways to rack the economy and make this government a total disaster.

0 (15m 47s):
More with Gustavo momentarily on today. Explain

18 (15m 53s):
You nervous about these scientific

19 (15m 55s):
Mysteries? Yeah, yeah. I'm gonna do my best. Oh wait, no, we're adversaries. I'm gonna beat you.

18 (16m 0s):
That is the attitude we

19 (16m 2s):
Want. Yeah. I'm not here to make friends.

18 (16m 4s):
Yeah, I'm here to guess mysteries.

19 (16m 6s):
Yeah, that's right.

18 (16m 8s):
This week on Unexplainable, we're bringing back our game show. We got three potential mysteries. Mystery one.

19 (16m 16s):
Oh no, that's terrifying.

18 (16m 19s):
Mystery two

19 (16m 21s):
What?

18 (16m 23s):
And mystery three

19 (16m 25s):
Get out. Come on.

18 (16m 27s):
Our guest this week is Avery Truffleman, host of the Articles of Interest podcast.

19 (16m 31s):
Thanks for having me. I'm terrified.

18 (16m 36s):
She's gonna try to guess which of these mysteries are still mysteries and which one has actually recently been solved.

19 (16m 44s):
Lisa, what's the answer? What's the answer?

18 (16m 47s):
To find out, follow unexplainable for new episodes. Every Wednesday

20 (16m 55s):
After 47 years living here, I decided to move to Orlando to be closer to Disney World

0 (17m 2s):
Today explained. We're back Gustavo. We're talking about these insurrectionists who are really mad that Jair Bolsonaro isn't leading Brazil in this moment. Where is Jair Bolsonaro in this moment? I hear Florida.

7 (17m 18s):
Yes.

21 (17m 18s):
Jaire Bolsonaro, who is currently in the United States, was just admitted to a hospital in Orlando for abdominal pain. Bolsonaro was stabbed in 2018 and frequently suffers pain in that area. As a result.

7 (17m 33s):
Bolsonaro left office on December the 30th, two days before he was supposed to hand the presidential sash toula so he would avoid the inauguration. There is legislation that was passed authorizing a security detail for him until January 31st. So I mean the plan, at least at this moment, is for him to stay at least until the end of the month in the Orlando area where he has been meeting with supporters outside of a supporters home, former U F C fighter who is hosting him there.

0 (18m 8s):
Weird. Why is he in Florida? Is it, is it just like, is the, is the love for Trump that

7 (18m 14s):
Deep? I mean part yes. But also Florida is where a lot of the Brazilian elite likes to, to move or to have homes or to go for tourism or is this sort of <unk> dream of Brazilian rich folks? So there are a lot of supporters of Boson, nado there. When we look at the electoral data from consulates, we see that Florida massively voted for boson nado. If Brazil had a, an electoral college, that swing state would be with the far right firmer president,

0 (18m 50s):
What has he had to say about all of this insurrection business in his, in his home country.

7 (18m 54s):
So it was very weird how Bodo acted following the events because while things were happening, bud Azelia and we were seeing this crazy, unprecedented events, he was mom, I mean, for a guy Yes. Social media savvy as he, it was weird. Hmm. And then early in the evening, he just posted anodyne things about accomplishments his administration had done. Now, I dunno if it were scheduled posts, but it was in total oblivion with what was happening. And then 9:00 PM already or something like that. He did this very short tweet saying that peaceful protests are encouraged, but when they go beyond what the law allows, then they become regrettable.

7 (19m 44s):
Hmm. But also comparing what happened on Sunday with protests that have taken place in Bud Azelia in 2013 and 2017,

0 (19m 54s):
Ultimately in the United States. You know, January 6th was investigated. There was a committee, there was, you know, televised hearings. They arrested a ton of people who, who, who were at the insurrection. And ultimately it feels kind of like a huge failure. Do you think this was this movement in Brazil's last gasp?

7 (20m 19s):
I would be shocked if this is the last we see of the far right, because I think their goal is to destabilize the country as much as they can and to make Lulu's presidency impossible to be successful. Hmm. It will depend on how harshly and how swiftly the courts go after these people. We have seen that between Sunday and Monday, over 1200 people have already been arrested for being there. And that both the justice ministry and the Supreme Court have promised to go not only after the people who were breaking stuff in blaze, but also the people who financed them for years and the people who incited them.

7 (21m 3s):
So that means going after billionaires who have poured money for months and years into financing this far right movement, and also the president and his family who, I mean the buck stops with them because they are the ones who are pushing people to that point of no return.

22 (21m 28s):
Mr. DeSilva has today accused him of encouraging these people who have stormed these buildings. He's also warned that anyone who was involved will be held to account

23 (21m 43s):
Like true vandals destroying what they found in front of them. We think there was a lack of security. And I wanted to tell you that all those people who did this will be found and punished

0 (21m 55s):
In the United States. You know, depending on who you ask. January 6th was one of the darkest days in our history, or it was a wild party down in dc. Do you think Brazilians are gonna suffer from the same circumstances where people will struggle to agree on what exactly happened on January 8th, 2023?

7 (22m 16s):
So there was one opinion poster who published a monitoring of social media posts on Sunday's riots. And over 90% of Brazilians were condemning what happened and disapproving of these violent acts. And then we saw even members of the right condemning what happened and distancing themselves. Now, like I said, Bo son has also distanced himself and that doesn't mean anything because they continue in the backstage inciting people to charge against democracy. Given this backlash is interesting to notice that a lot of far right agitators on social media are saying that there were infiltrated left wing people and those were the ones who were responsible for trashing the Congress and the Supreme Court, not the far right people who are there.

7 (23m 14s):
So they're trying to pin the blame on the left, on their own.

0 (23m 18s):
S Sounds familiar.

7 (23m 19s):
I think that Brazilian institutions have been capable of withstanding constant attacks. Some acted more responsibly than others. But I think that now that members of Congress who have been very lenient and borderline accomplice to osa, now that they have felt that they are in the firing line as well, maybe that could force them into making a stand for democracy. It's not that democracy is not at risk in Brazil, but I don't think that they will be able to achieve what they hope to achieve. So I think that even though we'll limp out of this crisis, I think the Brazilian democratic experiment is far from done in that sense.

7 (24m 10s):
I'm hopeful, even though I believe that we're going to see a very convoluted, a very tense political atmosphere in Brazil. So I think crisis mode will be on, but I don't think that democracy mode will be off.

0 (24m 36s):
Gustavo, he's the founder of the Brazilian report. Find them at Brazilian report. The program today was produced by Miles Bryan. We were edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Paul Robert Mosey. The rest of the team includes S Petros, Amanda Lou Ellen Halima Shaw, aha Artsy Haddi, ma Wadi, Victoria Chamberlain, and my co-host Noel King. Our supervising producer is Amina Aldi. Athe Shapiros, our Director of Sound. And we got extra help this week from Jolie Myers. We use music by Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld today explained is part of the Vox Media podcast network.

0 (25m 18s):
And we're on the radio in partnership with W N Y C.