1 (1s):
When was the last time you really enjoyed an online training rise.com makes the kind of online training. You're really going to enjoy you're really going to remember you're gonna you're gonna write home about rise dot-coms online trainings, you're gonna tell your grandchildren one day about that online training. You took a tries.com, see why you will love Rise by starting a free 30-day trial at rise dot-coms today rise.com online. You'll remember. First it feels good. Like when you first get your hands on the latest sneaker drop. Yes. Well, here's a new first for you Samsung Galaxy 5G.

1 (44s):
Yes 5G now and Galaxy helping you be one of the first on 5G so you can be first to even more like being the first of your friends to post an 8K with the first 8K unboxing video of your new kicks. Thinking man. First really looks good. Like really good Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy as 25g feels good to be first with Samsung 5G speed ferry and require Optical networking connection factors include frequency bandwidth congestion see carrier for availability. When it comes to covid-19, no one does it worse than the United States.

1 (1m 28s):
We've got two million confirmed cases and Counting. We never fully shut down, but we're super into reopening and now we're seeing huge covid Spikes all over the country Europe is considering reopening its borders of banning Americans from traveling there the border with Canada remains closed. Nobody wants to play in the Sandbox with us because we are the worst. We're number one. But Brazil is catching up and the similarities are astonishing never really shut down check a president recommending hydroxychloroquine check concerns over Health Care infrastructure check, but unlike the United States Brazil has the added risk that if things get really really bad the military might step in and take over so long democracy.

1 (2m 16s):
We got in touch with Gustavo. He Arrow to find out how close Brazil is to that desperate scenario

2 (2m 22s):
and the journalists of political scientist and I am in S?o

1 (2m 26s):
Paulo. He runs the Brazilian report is an english-language news site that covers Brazilian politics. We spoke just after Brazil hit a familiar-sounding milestone

2 (2m 36s):
over 1 million people have been infected here over 50,000 people died. And that makes the pandemic the single deadliest event in Brazilian history. Of course barring colonization and slavery but it has already killed more people than our war against Paraguay in the 19th century which lasted for six full years and it has only been four months since the first case was confirmed here. We are now confirming more cases per day on the 7-Day average basis than any other country in the world and that's despite Brazil having more than 100 million fewer people.

2 (3m 17s):
Than the US. Covid-19 to got to Brazil laid in February and it was a disease of the rich because covid-19 did not come from Asia to Brazil. We came from Europe. We came from wealthier Brazilians who are either doing business trips to Northern Italy or having a vacation trip. The thing is a lot of people simply disregarded the coronavirus as a little flu getting a their cue from Our president who has call it the sniffles.

1 (3m 52s):
If you did you might be pacinian. It was just a little cold said Brazil's president when the crisis

2 (3m 57s):
started so nobody was really concerned about the coronavirus at the beginning and we saw a lot of boss to house-made transmission. And then the housemaid who would go back to her neighborhood and then in fact family members and members of her neighborhood. So the first case of a covid-19 death in the state of Rio was very telling of that Dynamic. It was a 63 year olds housemate who worked for a wealthy family in an upscale neighborhoods in Rio and her boss did not mention. She had contracted the coronavirus Chief acted the housemate when the housemaid started showing symptoms.

2 (4m 43s):
She then took a two-hour taxi back to her home in the countryside town. Of Rio and since she was diabetic, she had a history of high blood pressure. She died in the following

1 (4m 56s):
afternoon. Gustavo you live in the biggest city in South America. What's the covid situation there

2 (5m 6s):
Sao Paulo is the Brazilian epicenter of the coronavirus if we count the greater S?o Paulo area 23 25 million people and we are seeing the disease spreading around lower-income neighborhoods. And that's why also it has become so much more deadly than it was at the beginning. If the outbreak

1 (5m 31s):
at this homeless shelter in some Paulo the beds have been full since the start of the pandemic any suspected of covid set aside in his room for several weeks. The team of nine Medics from Doctors Without Borders has come to take their temperatures and identify cases

2 (5m 49s):
some projections have that some Paulo alone could have up to 1.2 million cases, and now the virus is traveling through the country. Entry side of the Fast Pace, but the first cities to see a healthcare collapse were in the Amazon States when we talk about the Amazon States. We're not talking only about the indigenous or the native communities, but a lot of urban communities. We have a few Urban centers their most cities. They're simply do not have an intensive care unit. Sometimes they don't even have hospitals

1 (6m 26s):
the mortality rate among Brazil's indigenous people as twice as high as other Brazilians. The military is being sent in to help communities with testing. But some in the Amazon region say it's too late and accused the president of abandoning them.

2 (6m 40s):
A lot of people died before even realizing that they got the coronavirus and before having the opportunity to get treatment and then the fact that biologically many of these communities because they're so reclusive because they have so little contact with urban populations there even last paired but when you get the map of the coronavirus spread and then you see the roads and the rivers that explains you the path of the virus because for instance River Transportation is the number one transportation in the Amazon and that means that the lot of people are close to each other in small boats traveling for several hours often and if one person is Is infected we can have dozens of people leaving the boat carrying the virus as well.

2 (7m 37s):
So that's how the virus spread so quickly and then there's also the fact that these areas are extremely warm. Sometimes they live five six seven people we in a small shacks and then you ask them to stay at home with a 80% humidity and 35 degrees Celsius here. So social distancing was very hard to implement in these areas and it never really was followed by the population. So that also helps explain why the coronavirus spread so quickly in the Amazon

1 (8m 17s):
bodies lie on Hospital trolleys in the city of manaus in the north while doctors tell us the health system across the country is collapsing

2 (8m 25s):
we saw manaus which is the biggest city in the Amazon. It was the First to experience a full-scale collapse to the point that burial services they were not prepared to dig as many graves and they didn't have enough coffins for everyone.

1 (8m 44s):
They've buried hundreds upon hundreds here and they're ready for thousands more. This is just one Cemetery where they're filling the graves as fast as they can dig them still not fast

2 (8m 56s):
enough. We are stuck in the worst of two worlds here. The economy is tanking as it is everywhere in the world. But the problem is we have a very informal economy which means that tens of millions of people in Brazil. It's not that they live paycheck to paycheck. They have to go out every single day and make their living in order to have something to eat.

1 (9m 24s):
This is running out of food outweigh any fears from the Coronavirus? In downtown Rio de Janeiro the flamengo football squad does the rounds twice a week? They've already distributed more than six hundred meals, but as more months go by the requests only increase it's very hard for

2 (9m 41s):
this people to Simply stay home. So we are stuck in the in a place where people are still going outside and the virus is still spreading. We don't have a fully functioning economy, but we're not controlling the

1 (9m 57s):
outbreak It's really hard to blame covid-19 on anyone but in Brazil, it's pretty easy to point a finger at president gar Bolsa narrow. I'm Sean Rama's firm. That's after a quick break on today explained. You've heard it before these are tough times. There's a lot going on. We got a pandemic. We got protest for racial Justice. Some people are scared to leave the house. I haven't left the house personally in about 48 hours.

1 (10m 38s):
I could go for some of that probably later today. Once we publish the show if you're listening to it now. Hopefully I'm not in the house. But what I want to tell you is when you don't leave the house, you don't really wear shoes. I'm Barefoot right now, but I dream of a day. We're all beware. More shoes and you know what when we're all wearing more shoes, you might want to be wearing the tree - or from all birds. It's the world's first performance running shoe made from premium natural materials. It's a truly sustainable running shoe built for performance with a low environmental impact. So check out the all birds treat a sure right now with all birds.com and feel confident knowing that you can run hard and tread lightly on the the planet Mother Earth deserves a solid Are you still working from home?

1 (11m 34s):
I'm still working from home when you're working from home. You need help with project management you need help with with organization of all those documents that are flying left. And right and notion wants to help notion is like the Swiss army knife of productivity software combines note taking and to-do lists and document sharing and syncing and project management to help you stay on task. And is there anything richer in life than staying on task? All those documents and spreadsheets they're all going to be in one centralized place. So that your team is all on the same page except for that that one guy who never has any idea what's going on. Am I right a theme?

1 (12m 14s):
Anyway, you can customize the heck out of your notion and you can get 10% off a team plan right now at notion.com explained that his notion.com / explain for 10% off of a team plan from Ian Let's talk about Gyro Bowl. Senado, huh? Oh, yeah,

2 (12m 43s):
you cannot talk about the coronavirus in Brazil without talking about durable

1 (12m 48s):
senado.

2 (12m 49s):
It's really hard in this kind of situation to attribute blame to specific individuals, but they think it's safe to say that in Brazil's case present durable Sonata might be the single biggest responsible for things getting so bad so quickly from the Go he undermined the severity of the crisis The lethality of the fibers. He called it the sniffles a little flu. And then

1 (13m 18s):
there's this now Infamous exchange last month when President Boston area was asked about a record number of coronavirus deaths in Brazil. So what I'm mourn the death, what do you want me to do? I can't perform Miracles.

2 (13m 29s):
He said that we should by no means getting to social isolation. That should be reserved only for the elderly and for a tree Risk populations. He has incited Insurrection from his supporters against Governors who have enforced quarantine measures. They are

1 (13m 51s):
boy almost pretty day to die. It's we haven't supported our president schaible scenario. We want to go back to work. We want support for shopkeepers support for entrepreneurs. These people here in S?o Paulo today are in support of Brazil and he has joined

2 (14m 6s):
protests and demonstrations against social isolation.

1 (14m 9s):
He's openly disagreed with advice from his own health Ministry saying measures such as social distancing a costing jobs and a more dangerous than the virus itself.

2 (14m 20s):
He has created social Gatherings himself

1 (14m 24s):
S?o Paulo is Governor used to be an ally it's amazing. When you have to virus to combat the coronavirus and Busan are a

2 (14m 33s):
virus and he has gotten rid of to health ministers amid a pandemic.

1 (14m 40s):
Wait a second Gustavo. You guys don't have a health minister right now. Is that what you're saying?

2 (14m 44s):
That's exactly what I'm saying. Oh my gosh. We have an army General with no magical experience. Who is the interim Health Minister the number one strategy of the government to control. The crisis was not to increase testing was not to give money to people. So people can afford to stay home was simply to hide the numbers. A couple of weeks ago the official dashboards of the health Ministry went off air and four hours. We had absolutely no idea what had happened and when you came back on air, it didn't bring the total tallies just the new daily cases and deaths which means hiding the true extent of the outbreak because people don't have the records to know.

2 (15m 39s):
Okay, if we have 10,000 new cases how many cases we have in total and it took the Supreme Court to intervene. So the both senado Administration put the dashboard vacuum place, but the problem is that has discredited the official data. So a recent poll showed that 70 percent of Brazilians. Do not trust the coronavirus data 35. And because they think it is understated and 35% which pretty much coincides with the president's base of support thinks they are overstated and meanwhile four percent of Brazilians believe the coronavirus is not real at all,

1 (16m 25s):
which is to say that despite utterly failing to contain this in any way and literally mocking the pandemic desirable senado still has significant support in the country. Three significant is a big words. He is

2 (16m 43s):
among democratically elected leaders in Brazil the least popular one. However, having controlling one third of the electorate amid a pandemic with a job apocalypse that is going to strike us very soon with the sheer amount of Scandal. His administration has faced over the past year. It's quite remarkable. Think of it, but with bankruptcy is starting to rise in Brazil with businessmen being disgruntled for social isolation. We have seen him losing support among wealthier classes.

2 (17m 26s):
However, the government has put in place a few months ago a $120 stipend for vulnerable populations. It isn't much but for many people it is more money in a month than they have ever seen. We have to remember that Brazil has 14 million people below the poverty line. So for these people the government AIDS boosted gerbils tornadoes support among less educated and lower income voters. But as soon as the stipend is cancelled, we should see variable scenarios approval ratings plummeted.

2 (18m 9s):
In very quickly parallel to the coronavirus crisis. We are seeing multiple corruption investigations against the president and the guess his sons. So the government is extremely cornered and it is a present under siege. Under Siege

1 (18m 30s):
it makes me think of Brazil's history of authoritarian rule of military rule is the military backing Bolsa narrow or they watching him closely and ready to step in if if this pandemic continues to grow out of control

2 (18m 49s):
Sean, this is the 1 million dollar question not even during the military dictatorship. Did we have so many Military Officers in the executive? Aah a recent count had like 3,000 members of the three armed forces of Navy Air Force and the Army in the government keeping their position ambiguous is what makes them. So powerful in Brazil. Nobody goes against their interest in terms of military pensions salaries. They are a very privileged class in Brazil and because nobody actually knows where there stand in terms of the respect towards democracy that makes them very powerful actors in the political Arena right now.

1 (19m 37s):
What do you see this ending up Gustavo? I mean the pandemic is the second worst anywhere in the world in Brazil, and we assume that all of the numbers have been underreported undercounted. You've got a president who is continuing to just mock it and not even take it. Slowly his support is eroding and a financial crisis is all but certain. How worried are you for

2 (20m 7s):
Brazil? Politically it's hard to predict what's going to happen. I mean, it's politics and it's Brazil. So anything can happen. I do see things getting much worse for a longer time before we have a solution because the president is not strong enough to impose his will on other branches of government, but he's not weak enough to simply be tossed aside by the political establishment. So we going to see this tug-of-war continue for the foreseeable future. However on the pandemic side of things, I think it's safe to say that when we have a sanitary crisis.

2 (20m 48s):
Burning out of control and we have an economic depression knocking on our doors. It's safe to say that we are heading towards a humanitarian crisis in Brazil and that's fuel for social unrest and it would shock me if we don't see a deterioration of the social fabric. I'm very scared of what kind of society we are we have I'm in the post pandemic world. I'm really scared.

1 (21m 23s):
Okay, stop. Oh, I wish you all the best and we're hoping for the best for Brazil. Thank you. Gustavo Ribeiro runs the Brazilian report again. It's an English. So don't worry about your rusty Portuguese find it at Brazilian dot report.

1 (22m 6s):
No one would ever thought an entrenched immunity like Hollywood could let someone come in and completely disrupt the content. I'm Ronnie Mo Le and I'm Peter Kafka and we are the host of a new season of Land of the Giants the Netflix effect for exploring all things Netflix by talking to the people who started the company will get into their bruising battle with Blockbuster. There was 20 times larger than us, which is not a good place to be. Okay. So in many as five feel like so randomly lucky to have survived well look at mistake that could have ended the company in hindsight. It was incredibly tone-deaf and it blew up in our faces as it should have and we'll talk about how Netflix took over our screens and how they plan to win the war for our attention Land of the Giants the Netflix effect from recode and the Box media podcast Network first episode drops, June

2 (22m 53s):
23rd. Listen And subscribe on Apple podcast

1 (22m 56s):
Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts.