0 (0s):
Basketball superstar. Britney Griner just got sentenced to nine years for bringing some Hashi soil into Russia.

1 (9s):
I never meant to hurt anybody. I never meant to put in jeopardy the Russia population. I never meant to break any laws here. I made an honest mistake, and I hope that in your ruling that it doesn't end my life here.

0 (25s):
It's a wildly disproportionate seeming sentence for the crime she was charged with, but Brittany might get out much earlier than that via prisoner swap. And it might be the most lopsided prisoner swap in the history of the practice.

2 (39s):
These are hard deals. Victor boot is a real horrible criminal Britney Griner, Paul wheen they're innocent Americans. So when you do these trades, they're uncomfortable trades.

0 (50s):
One of the greatest athletes alive for one of the most notorious arms dealers in history, Britney Griner for the merchant of death ahead on today explained

3 (1m 2s):
Today.

0 (1m 6s):
So let's just get right out the gate with this question. Victor boot for Britney Griner, fair trade.

4 (1m 13s):
I don't think it's a fair trade, but I think it's a necessary trade. I think that Victor has actual blood on his hands from many conflicts and has done horrendous things or empowered people to do horrendous things. For the years. He was trafficking in weapons to Charles Taylor and Liberia, the RF and Sierra Leone, Loran, Kabila, and democratic Republic of Congo, the Northern Alliance, and then the Taliban and Afghanistan. So there's nothing fair about it in terms of absolute justice. But I do think that he is not in a position to wreak a lot more havoc in his life. And I think Brit Reiner is in significant danger in Russia because of her sexual orientation because of who she is and because of the prize that the Russians have in, in her that is worth the trade at this point to bring her back.

0 (1m 60s):
This is Douglas far, he's the co-author of merchant of death, money, guns, planes, and the man who makes war possible. It's the definitive book about Victor boot. It came out a few years after Lord of war, which is the definitive movie about Victor boot in which a Victor boot type arms dealer is played by Nicholas cage. We assume by this point, your familiar with Britney Griner, one of the greatest basketball players alive, but in case you've never seen the movie or haven't yet read Douglas's book. We asked him to tell us about Victor boot.

4 (2m 32s):
Victor boot came out of the Soviet intelligence structures. She was working in Africa as a young man, late twenties, early thirties. When the wall goes down

5 (2m 43s):
Thousands and thousands of west Germans come to make the point that the wall has suddenly become

4 (2m 48s):
Irrelevant. And he has this incredible bolt of lightning moment road to Damascus moment where he realizes that there are all of these Aircrafts sitting around the former Soviet union that no one's flying because no one has money for fuel. And there are all of these weapons depots, where there are massive amounts of weapons where the guards aren't being paid, where you can buy, you know, boatloads of AK 40 sevens or light anti tank weapons or rocket propel grenades, essentially for a song

6 (3m 16s):
Sell by the kilo, the second hand weapons, but they're still okay.

4 (3m 22s):
So he began flying the aircraft to the United Arab Emirates from the United Arab Emirates, set up a distribution hub where he could fly to get the weapons, bring them back, and then start distributing around to the, all the wars that were breaking out in, in Africa at this point is where he initially got started. Victor began in the late 1990s, 96, 97, 98,

7 (3m 46s):
About into wove his arms trafficking empire with a seemingly innocuous logistics business. His clients included rebel groups and militias from Congo to Angola and Liberia in Afghanistan. He sold guns to Islamist Taliban insurgents and their foes in the pro Western Northern Alliance.

4 (4m 3s):
It could have started earlier. No one knew who he was for a long time.

8 (4m 7s):
By the late 1990s, boot was a legend in the shadowy world of illicit arms dealing so elusive that the only two pictures that surfaced of him back then were taken without boots knowledge by a Belgian photographer.

4 (4m 20s):
I was hearing as a reporter, the name Victor delivering weapons, the Brits, the UN other people had picked up that there was somebody supplying these weapons, but I don't think anybody really knew until the British parliamentarian stood up in British parliament and called him the merchant of death and publicly identified him. That was the first sort of coming out of Victor boot as a public figure. At that point,

0 (4m 52s):
What makes him the merchant of death? It's such a incredible, powerful and, and horrifying title. Was he wildly successful in comparison to other arms dealers around the world?

4 (5m 7s):
Oh, without question, he

9 (5m 8s):
Could move this stuff and drop it with pinpoint accuracy to any desert, to any jungle, to any other remote place in the world, right into the hands of what I refer to as the Pope of global scum,

4 (5m 22s):
Many people could sell you lots of AK 40 sevens across Africa. I was living there in the times of the war and covering the wars. It wasn't hard to acquire crappy old Soviet weapons. It wasn't hard to acquire a few hand grenades, but what Victor boot brought to the table was the ability to deliver attack helicopters, to deliver anti tank weapons that could be fired through entire villages and burn a village down with one shot. The fact that you could bring in high caliber machine guns, rocket propel grenades, no one else could do that.

10 (5m 54s):
After the wall came down, 32 billion worth of arms were stolen and resold from Ukraine alone. One of the greatest HES of the 20th century, the primary market was Africa 11 major conflicts involving 32 countries in less than a decade, a gun runner's wet dream.

4 (6m 13s):
And so as he built his reputation, both sides of the same conflict would hire him on numerous occasions. So in what was then Zaire, you had Muto the dictator had been there a long time being chased out of office by Lauren Cabela's forces, sweeping across the DRC. And Victor was selling weapons to both sides. And while Kala's forces were trying to kill, Mato literally as he was fleeing the country, he flew out of the country on Victor boots aircraft. So he had armed the people who were trying to shoot down his own airplane and the president. And that's what made him so incredibly successful was that he could do all of that. And one of the questions I asked and my co-author asked a lot of people, why did both sides tolerate this?

4 (6m 56s):
Why didn't someone kill him? Right? Yeah. If you're flying to me and there was like, well, you don't kill the mailman bleak, but he's the one person who could deliver. You just don't kill the mailman. How like, are you stupid? And I was like, well, maybe I, maybe I am. But that was consistently the answer. He did what he said he would do at the price. He said he would do it at, and that made him unusually successful.

0 (7m 18s):
Who was his supplier this whole time? Is it just Russia?

4 (7m 22s):
It was the entire former Soviet block where all of these arsenals had been abandoned

10 (7m 28s):
Ukraine. Wasn't the only former state with an unpaid army in stockpiles of guns. There was Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Belarus, all there for the taking.

4 (7m 40s):
So if someone showed up and paid the commander a thousand dollars and said, I'll take this load of weapons out, thank you very much fine. And most of the Soviet era major arsenals had air strips built into their facilities. So he could land there, load up and fly out. And it was, you know, apparently a relatively easy process.

0 (8m 0s):
It sounds like he did a lot of dirty deeds, especially on the continent of Africa. Does, does his involvement in them play a central role in accelerating the conflict or accelerating the end of the conflict? How important a player is he in these conflicts?

4 (8m 20s):
His ability to supply weapons to some of the worst war Lords on the planet was I think transformational for those wars, elevating

8 (8m 27s):
Bloody conflicts from machetes and single shot rifles to

9 (8m 31s):
AK 40 sevens, not by the thousands, but by the tens of thousands.

4 (8m 35s):
When these wars started, most people had hunting rifles and machetes and they were nasty and they were hellacious. But when you add AK 40 sevens and light anti tank weapons and RPGs, obviously the human toll escalates dramatically.

9 (8m 48s):
He transformed these young adolescent warriors into insidious mindless, maniacally driven, killing machines that operated with assembly line efficiencies. Victor boot in, in my eyes is one of the most dangerous men on the face of the earth, on the face of the earth, without a doubt.

0 (9m 17s):
Do we have any idea, the amount of people he armed? Do we have any idea how many people his arms may have killed?

4 (9m 25s):
I don't think anyone's ever done that calculation, but if you look at the wars, you have Liberia, you have Charles Taylor, which are, you know, tens of thousands of victims of that war and neighboring Sierra Leone, where they're fighting over weapons and the group supported by Charles Taylor, another tens of thousands. He was in the Angola conflict, arming, both sides of that conflict. He was in the democratic Republic of Congo, arming, both sides of that conflict. He then is, was supplying weapons to the Northern Alliance in Afghanistan and then to the Taliban. So, I mean, I think, you know, easily, tens of thousands of people were directly impacted by the weapons that were being supplied by Victor boot.

0 (10m 3s):
Okay. And, and we're talking about Africa and the middle east primarily, but I, I think a fact that is sometimes overlooked is that he was also at various points, something of an ally to the United States. Well,

4 (10m 15s):
This is one of the reasons why I think the trade should be considered apart from whether it's just, or not

12 (10m 20s):
The most recent case where American officials and American private security firms were colluding with Victor boot was during the Iraq

4 (10m 29s):
War. In fact, during the Iraq conflict, when hardly anyone would fly supplies to us, troops on the ground, Victor boot flew hundreds of missions for us and British and other forces into a war zone. That was very important to us. And as my co-author Steve, Ron documented in the book, American officers who were making those decisions, understood who Victor boot was. In fact, they publicly acknowledged it at one point, but their trade off and their conversations with us was do we let our people on the ground die from lack of ammunition and food because this guy is a criminal or do we deal with the criminal and get the people on the ground, what they need.

0 (11m 8s):
So how does he end up imprisoned in the United States?

4 (11m 11s):
Initially there is a arrest warrant put out for him by Interpol the international police or red notice for his arrest. He goes back to Moscow

0 (11m 17s):
On, on, on what grounds on what crime

4 (11m 19s):
Weapons, trafficking and violations of numerous laws in Belgium, primarily where he had had a hub of, of operations. Huh? And so he goes back to Moscow, 2001, 2002. And then over time, the us intelligence services in the British and others who were monitoring him, began to pick up clear indications that the far rebels in Columbia, who at this time were a major also drug trafficking organization were trying to make contact with Victor boot. Mm. And so they set up a sting operation where they sent in the people who pretended to be far who had done this successfully in past operations to present themselves, to intermediaries Victor boots as far convinced Victor booth, that they were in fact far and got Victor boot against long odds to actually travel to a country Thailand that had an extradition treaty with the United States, which seems, it seemed preposterous when it happened, because he was always very cognizant of whether they were extradition treaties or not.

4 (12m 15s):
For some reason, he decided to go to Thailand. And then he said in the meetings with the undercover agents that, you know, he wanted to give them weapons, he hated Americans. He knew the weapons would be used to kill Americans.

0 (12m 27s):
Wow. He said all that

13 (12m 29s):
Eduardo and commandant, they talk about how they want sniper sites for the rifles that they have so that they could start blowing the heads off American pilots. Boots response immediately is yes.

4 (12m 41s):
They let him run for a while because he was on such a role. And that's what ultimately he's convicted in the us of trying to sell arms to a designated terrorist organization. The far knowing that the weapons could be used to kill Americans. That's what he is ultimately brought down for.

0 (12m 56s):
Do his lawyers present in his defense, the fact that the United States did business with him

4 (13m 2s):
That was raised in the trial, but not as a significant point because the trial focused very narrowly on the events that led to the rest in Thailand.

12 (13m 10s):
Victor boot wrote to the judge basically saying, look, I've also worked for the us companies. I've flown 140 flights. They've paid me 6 million. And so why would you be convicting me?

4 (13m 26s):
You know, the way the case was structured, they didn't charge him with a lot of other stuff. Officers only defending that particular charge related to that particular incident. And so he was convicted

0 (13m 44s):
And he's sentenced to 25 years in a federal prison in Marion, Illinois. When does he start serving that sentence?

4 (13m 52s):
2011

0 (13m 54s):
Over the course of these 11 years, has Russia ever made any stink about his imprisonment

4 (14m 1s):
Constantly? Yes. From the very beginning they have, they have had their Congress, their Duma has issued numerous declarations asking for his release. Every time a us person has been arrested. They've always raised the possibility of an exchange for Victor. So yes, this is certainly not the first time they've raised the issue of trading for Victor

0 (14m 19s):
Boot, but this is the first time they might actually get him back.

4 (14m 23s):
It's the first time we know that the us has actually considered doing anything like that. Yes. I think it's the first time one could say that, that he, he may actually go back

0 (14m 43s):
More with Douglas on Victor and Brittany in a minute on today explained,

Into It: A Vulture Podcast with Sam Sanders (14m 55s):
Hey, it's Noel here. Our friends over at vulture are having a banner week. They just launched their new flagship podcast. It's called Intuit. And it's hosted by dear friend of today explained the excellent Sam Sanders every week, Sam and his colleagues across the vulture newsroom will dive into the pop culture moments that they can't stop thinking about. And they'll help us understand what's worth our time to watch, listen, to read, drink, and a lot more like why is Sam so obsessed with the minions? And when did comedy specials become so serious? The first episode is out now, it explores Beyonce's evolution as an artist and a business woman, and how she's managed to command so much attention over the years. Have you seen Beyonce? I think that's how anyway, new episodes drop every Thursday morning and you can find into it wherever you listen, check it out, strong, recommend, check it out.

Shopify (15m 58s):
Support for the show. Today comes from Shopify. If you're someone who sells things online, you need a commerce platform that makes it easy to sell the things. And that's why Shopify is the go-to choice for millions of different businesses. According to Shopify, they're all in one commerce platform includes everything you need to start running, grow your business, whether you're selling, you know, organic cotton candy, or you know, clothing for your Chihuahua, or, Hmm, let's say those little, those little soft things you put on the bottoms of your chair. So they don't scratch the floor. Shopify is giving entrepreneurs and startups the same set of resources that that used to be reserved for the, for the big bull is in business. Their words, not mine. That means that that businesses of all sizes can finally sell everywhere, sync up online and in person sales and keep an eye on the data that matters most. Go to shopify.com/explained all lowercase for a free 14 day trial and get full access to Shopify's entire suite of features grow your business with Shopify today, go to shopify.com/explain. Now all lowercase, shopify.com/explained, do not turn off your caps lock.

4 (17m 16s):
There are over 550 million firearms in worldwide circulation. That's one firearm for every 12 people on the planet. The only question is how do we arm the other 11

0 (17m 29s):
Douglas? I know a lot of the dealings between the United States and Russia are, are, are backroom affairs, but do we have any idea who concocted this idea that, oh, we could trade one of the best basketball players who's ever lived for one of the most notorious arms dealers who has ever lived?

4 (17m 50s):
I don't know. And I think I, you know, I would like to know. I, I remember when, because my co-author and I were talking, he was sending me messages. He was monitoring everything. And, and I was traveling and saying, they're talking about Victor boot. Now they're talking about Victor for grinder.

15 (18m 4s):
In the coming days, I expect to speak with Russian farm minister Lara for the first time, since the war began, I planned to raise an issue. That's a top priority for us, the release of Americans, Paul wheelin, and Britney Griner. Who'd been wrongfully detained and must be allowed to

4 (18m 18s):
Come home. And I was like, what? He said, that might actually be serious. And I was like, what

0 (18m 23s):
Do you remember when that was that you got that call

4 (18m 25s):
Just a few weeks ago? When the, when the rumors started circulating, I don't know who was behind it on the us side. I think the fact that secretary blink sort of owned it a few days ago, clearly shows it was made at a, you know, very senior level. It wasn't some cowboy out there thinking creatively and trying to do something. We

15 (18m 43s):
Put a substantial proposal on the table weeks ago to facilitate their release. Our governments had communicated repeatedly and directly on that proposal. And I'll use the conversation to follow up personally. And I hope move us toward a resolution.

0 (18m 57s):
How are we supposed to wrap our heads around how insanely lopsided this is your rough estimation? Is Victor boots, maybe responsible for the deaths of, I don't know, tens of thousands of brown people and Britney Griner maybe smoked some weed once in a while.

4 (19m 15s):
I don't think it's a fair trade. I have gone out of my way in talking about this and in our book. And the other thing is to point out how absolutely horrific what Victor boot did, what he enabled people to do over a period of years. And you talked about, you know, the tens of thousands of deaths, but there are equal number more of, of rapes. There are that many burned villages. There are that many children who were kidnapped often forced to kill their own. Parents, burned their own villages and become child soldiers. So I have no illusions about who Victor boot was. I, my main point is that he could be up for parole in a couple years.

4 (19m 58s):
Anyway, he's no longer, I don't think it gonna be able to function in the world. He helped create at that time. And Brittany, as a gay woman, well-identified being held in society where at least the upper echelons are extremely anti gay anti BTQ community. That that's a significant risk. And if you can get her out without causing the rest of the world's significant damage, it should be considered. I don't think it's it's that Victor boot did anything like Brit dead. She clearly has done nothing remotely comparable.

0 (20m 39s):
Is there any fear amongst people like yourself who, who who've covered Victor boot or, or perhaps from the United States government at this point that Victor boot could sort of re-arm and re-up his supply and reestablish himself as a prolific arms dealer?

4 (20m 57s):
I, I think not because I think he was the product of a specific moment in history when everything aligned for the ability to take out weapons in aircraft, in a chaotic world, Putin in Russia, no longer precise over a chaotic world. He has everything extremely regimented. Everything that Victor boot was doing with the Taliban, with the Northern Alliance with Charles to is predicated on a personal trust between him and those leaders. You can't just walk into places and start selling weapons and doing those things. All of those networks have disappeared. Those people are no longer engaged. He has none of those contacts left.

0 (21m 29s):
Is there a chance that if this trade happens that it's it's grinder for boot that a country like, I don't know, Iran or China, or even Russia who facilitates the trade says, oh, this is great. We should do this the next time. LeBron James visits, or, or the next time, you know, who knows Nick cage is in town?

4 (21m 53s):
I think that's a very real concern. And I do not minimize that.

16 (21m 56s):
I believe we're sending the message that it is good business to deal in the, the capturing kidnapping detaining of American citizens. I just don't think this is the right way to go about it.

4 (22m 8s):
My basic premise with Russia is that they are so far off the rails in regard to international law and human rights and doing, they're gonna grab whoever they're gonna grab, whether there's a trade or not, they're operating now in their own logic, which is why they invaded Ukraine and have done all these things. I do think the question about other countries, particularly China, because they're a big country and can do it, may give this pause. And I think that that is something that has to be considered, and it has to be considered by people who want to travel to these areas as well. I mean, I don't, I don't think anybody in the right mind right now would wanna travel to Russia as a basketball player or a tourist because yeah, the risk is too high, but I don't think that will change if they give Britney back.

4 (22m 51s):
You know, I don't think that that basic equation will change

0 (22m 54s):
Swapping prisoners. Of course, isn't a new practice. We, we even saw one earlier this year between Russia and the United States. And we covered on the show with, with Trevor Reed. Is it ever even, are these trades ever sort of comparable crimes or suspected crimes or accusations or whatever it might be?

4 (23m 14s):
No. I mean, there, they really aren't. If you look, you know, you have the Palestinian Israeli swaps all the time and you get hundreds of people outta prison exchange for three students, numerically, it may not, it may not be equal, but I think again, in situations like that, you look at the preponderance of what brings the most good to the most people

2 (23m 32s):
At the end of the day, you have to calculate are Americans better off and their security better off by doing the trade than not. But ultimately the president of the United States has to make that decision. And I think in this case, it's the right decision,

4 (23m 47s):
But I don't think you can look at it in terms of absolute fairness, because in this case it is horrendously unfair.

0 (23m 54s):
Do you, do you think there's something that, that these sort of international prisoner swaps teaches us about how the world works?

4 (24m 4s):
Well, I think it shows that every country has specific interests that it wants to protect and defend. And I think one of the things I would like to think about with the United States in this particular case is we are willing to show compassion and a level of mercy that Russia would never be able to share in a similar situation. I don't think it makes us necessarily morally superior, but anything like that. But I think that being able to show compassion, especially when a sentence has been served, Victor boosts been in for 11 years, he was actually held since 2008 in really crappy conditions in timeless.

4 (24m 44s):
He has those three years added on it. So I think that the sum of what he has paid, if he stays in prison here and gets out in two years, if we can just do it now and get Brittany back and save her life in a way I think to me, that is an act of mercy for Victor and an act of compassion for

11 (25m 7s):
Brittany Douglas.

0 (25m 11s):
Farra is one of the authors of merchant of death, money, guns, planes, and the man who makes war possible. You can find it wherever you find your books. He's also the founder and president of IBI consultants. He and his fellow consultants think a lot about security challenges in Latin America. Our show today was produced by Heidi Wadi edited by Matthew Colette fact, checked by Laura Bullard and Victoria Dominguez and mixed by Paul mosey. Thanks to 60 minutes. You heard some of their interviews on the show today. I'm Sean Ramis firm. This is today explained.