2 (5s):
Ahead on today explained it's the off season, but that is not stopping the Buffalo bills from setting records

1 (11s):
Bills on making it happen.

2 (13s):
The football team just struck a new $1.4 billion stadium deal with New York state and local government picking up $850 million of that tab. That is the largest taxpayer contribution for an NFL facility ever. And that's $850 million of public funds. Even though the team is owned by fracking. Billionaire, Why New York is handing over nearly a billion dollars to the Buffalo bills and whether these publicly funded stadium deals ever work out in the public's favor.

2 (54s):
That's ahead on today's show.

3 (60s):
Today's episode is sponsored by Thorne. We are all aging and thorn believes aging is a journey to be embraced, but it also recognizes that there are ways to make that journey feel more comfortable. Thorn's mission is to provide a unique, comprehensive approach to healthy aging. Thorn is a health and tech company that teaches you about your body and based on your test results, offer supplements that support specific wellness goals and health needs. If you want to learn more, visit thorn.com support for today's show comes from duck. Duck go. If you're tired of being tracked online, duck, duck go believes it can help. Tracking is a comprehensive problem. There are trackers almost everywhere.

3 (1m 40s):
Online websites, emails, even the apps on your phone, which means you need a comprehensive solution. Duck duck goes privacy app can be used as a browser with private search tracker blocking encryption and email protection built in it's the free, easy button for online privacy. Go to duck, duck, go.com to learn more.

2 (2m 12s):
I explained Sean Rama's from, I grew up in Toronto, Canada, right across the great lake from Buffalo. So the Buffalo bills with the closest thing I had to an NFL team growing up, that being said, I was into hockey, sort of comes with the territory, but Jerry Zremski was into the bills.

4 (2m 28s):
I am a Buffalo bills fan, but I don't believe it affects my reporting.

2 (2m 32s):
Jerry's the Washington bureau chief for the Buffalo news. We asked him what the Bill's mean to Buffalo,

4 (2m 38s):
The Buffalo bills, franchise, really lens, kind of a big city feel to a city that's been kind of on the cusp of being a major city and a middle-sized city over the last few decades. It's a few decades in which the city's economy and the region's economy has been very much on a down bound train until recently. And recently there's real signs that population and the economy are picking up, but all through the troubled times of Buffalo's recent history, over the last 50 to 60 years, the Buffalo bills have been central to bringing the community together and giving the community something to root for.

4 (3m 30s):
It's a very unique relationship between a town and teamed. It's really only like one other in the NFL and that's the green bay Packers. Most the other NFL cities are much bigger than Buffalo. The Metro areas that they serve are much bigger, but the bills for the longest time have been just a central part of our identity in Western New York.

5 (3m 52s):
He's breaking news from newsy.

6 (3m 55s):
Good afternoon, a breaking news on this Monday, a hefty price tag for a new Buffalo bills stadium, governor Kathy Hochul confirming the state and Erie county taxpayers will be asked to contribute $850 million in public funds for the construction of a new bills stadium.

4 (4m 13s):
If the state legislature approves it, the Buffalo bills will likely be set in Buffalo for the next three decades. And there's a sense of security to that. That would be very important to the community. This is a city that did lose an NBA franchise. That's lost industrial power after industrial power over the years, there is of course, another side to this story. There are significant numbers of people in Buffalo and in other parts of New York state that look at this as too much public money going to a business entity that is the Buffalo bills owned by a billionaire. So there's a debate in Buffalo just as there is in other parts of the state.

4 (4m 55s):
However, the current stadium will soon be 50 years old,

5 (4m 59s):
Orchard park, the new stadium, a new home of the Buffalo bills, more than 600 men and machines labor to complete the new facility in time for the 73 Buffalo bills football season.

4 (5m 11s):
Yeah, it is in very rough shape and would need an awful lot of work. And even with a lot of work, it would not meet the modern day NFL standards. So the presumption has been that if the bills could not get a new stadium, there would be the grave danger that the bills could end up leaving town sometime in the next few years, because the lease is up only in a couple of years.

2 (5m 33s):
So is that how this deal came about? It was just sort of proactive. Do we have any idea?

4 (5m 38s):
Well, the, the bills made clear that they need a new stadium.

7 (5m 42s):
I was asked if a stadium deal was not reached, would the bills continue to play at Highmark stadium?

8 (5m 49s):
No, we absolutely will. Not.

4 (5m 51s):
The NFL made clear that the bills need a new stadium.

9 (5m 54s):
I do believe that a stadium long-term is going to be needed in that marketplace. I love Ralph Wilson stadium, but it's got to compete against a lot of these new stadiums that have a lot of very important features that that stadium doesn't have.

4 (6m 8s):
So basically this was bound to happen. Whomever was governor be at Andrew Cuomo or Kathy HoCo would be at this point in time looking to come up with some sort of a deal with Erie county and with Kim and Terry Pakula, the owner of the bills to build a new stadium. Clearly, as soon as governor Hoeckel took office in August, people started asking questions.

10 (6m 38s):
So I come with the Buffalo question. We know you have a study underway. What we're wondering about is what is your timeline for a deal? Are you hoping to see a deal by the end of the year?

4 (6m 49s):
And we have heard over the last few weeks that there was going to be a deal. There's going to be a deal.

11 (6m 56s):
My desires, I'm a Buffalo bills fan. Let's lock this down, let's get it done. So we are very intently focused on keeping the bills here. If orchard parks, their first choice, their only choice it's orchard park and we'll make it all happen.

4 (7m 9s):
It was only announced a week ago, which some people clearly don't like because it was very late in the state budget process. The state budget was doing on April 1st, which is now late. And it did take place. And in secret, the negotiations did take place in secret, but all business negotiations take place in secret. There is concern among some that the deal came so close to the budget deadline, that it couldn't be properly vetted that there couldn't be say, legislature, hearings on it. And that is a much more legitimate concern than the idea that this thing would be negotiated publicly because deals like this are never negotiated publicly.

2 (7m 57s):
So the state of New York pays the lion's share. Yes. And it's a record breaking sum of money.

4 (8m 4s):
It depends on how one looks at it. The public contribution, according to our analysis at the Buffalo news is less than the 73% public contribution to stadium deals and smaller NFL markets. Over the past two decades, things are different in a place like Los Angeles or Las Vegas.

12 (8m 24s):
We are so ready for major league sports in this town,

4 (8m 28s):
But there've been very major subsidies there as well. So for example, there was a public subsidy to the new stadium in Las Vegas for the Las Vegas Raiders there, the state paid 750 million to build a $1.9 billion stadium. It's the biggest dollar amount, but it's not the biggest share ever. And I have a feeling that part of the reason there is some blow back is that the pagodas are billionaires and not only are they billionaires, but they're fracking billionaires. And this is a state which re rejected fracking years ago. And that a lot of, a lot of public figures have spoken out against that form of natural gas drilling.

4 (9m 12s):
And here we have a fracking billionaire getting a lot of state money to build a stadium.

13 (9m 18s):
The fact that the pergolas are getting a single dime of public funds is kind of a shocker. I thought those days were long gone, especially when you're cutting funds for school, you know, regular people

2 (9m 29s):
As HOCAL responded to that particular criticism yet.

4 (9m 32s):
No.

2 (9m 34s):
And she has some personal ties to the team. Yeah,

4 (9m 36s):
There are personal ties in that. Number one, Kathy Hogan is a big Buffalo bills fan because

3 (9m 42s):
I'm a Buffalo bills

4 (9m 42s):
Fan. But more importantly than that, her husband is the general counsel. We're Delaware, north companies. I

14 (9m 49s):
Have the coolest job in the world

15 (9m 50s):
And the coolest job in the world.

16 (9m 52s):
I have the coolest job in the world. I have the coolest job in the world.

17 (9m 54s):
I have the coolest job in the world. I have the coolest job in the world because I worked for Delaware. North county,

4 (9m 60s):
Delaware, north companies is one of the largest concessionaire companies in the entire nation. Ha currently Delaware north handles the concessions at Highmark stadium, the bills stadium today. And so the company that Kathy Hopewell's husband works for benefits whenever a Buffalo bills fan buys a beer at the current stadium. There's a lot of questioning of that. However, that contract for the concessions doesn't carry over to a new stadium.

2 (10m 33s):
Okay? But there's a lot of reasons for people to think this is suspicious or at least sticky, or maybe a little clumsy. I mean the governor herself has a direct tie to the business operations of the stadium. Through her husband, she's financing a stadium for a team that's owned by a fracking billionaire while she's running for reelection. And this is a huge giveaway of public funds to the NFL. So the Buffalo bills, is there a chance that while she's running for reelection, this, this sort of goes south on her.

4 (11m 9s):
It is certainly possible. Looking at the race for governor here in, in June, neither of her two opponents have really caught fire yet. I think both of them are going to try to use this to catch fire

1 (11m 27s):
The bills, make me wanna

2 (11m 28s):
Do these publicly funded stadiums actually benefit the public in a minute on today's explain,

1 (11m 35s):
I'm making it happen. Stand up,

3 (11m 41s):
Building a workout routine and sticking with it is a lovely idea, but it is easier said than done. Future is an app that can help make it easier for a fixed monthly price. Future connects you with a trainer who will offer unlimited personal workout sessions and custom designed routines that fit your needs and your lifestyle. Future coaches are there to keep you motivated every day. And they're focused on making every workout feel fresh. Most of them are trained athletes from top college and pro programs across the country and having one in your corner could make a big difference. Get started right now with 50% off your first three months at try future.com/explained again, that's try future.com/explained

11 (12m 32s):
I'm a Buffalo bills fan.

2 (12m 33s):
All right, we're back today. Explain the Buffalo bills are on track to get a new stadium with nearly a billion dollars in public funds. It's a record setter, but it's far from the first there's a rich history here. And Andrew Zimbalist knows it. I

18 (12m 47s):
Am a professor of economics at Smith college.

2 (12m 49s):
We asked him to share

18 (12m 55s):
Well, there were a couple of anomalies such as the old Memorial stadium in Cleveland that was built during the 1930s, other than those anomalies, the time that the government really got involved in the United States and financing statin construction was in the 1950s. And basically what happened was that major league baseball, which back then was the predominant spectator sport. Basically baseball had not expanded the number of teams since 1903. Of course, the population expanded enormously between 1903 in the early 1950s. And people's incomes expanded enormously. And that meant that there were a lot of cities out there, particularly west of the Mississippi that didn't have baseball teams.

18 (13m 37s):
And then what we had is that the cities out west to try to lure a baseball teams and they start competing against each other and the owners of course playing the capitalist game, well say to their existing cities, build me a new stadium or I'm going somewhere else. And so that's, that was really when the professional sports leads got the idea that we have some market leverage here that we might as well use. And then the leverage they used was you've got to build me a stadium. If you want me to come to your town, put down public money. Back in those days, you know, stadium might've cost 70 or $80 million. And basically a hundred percent of the stadiums were being financed publicly.

18 (14m 17s):
And then what happened was in the 1960s and seventies as the United States goes through this period of automobile ization and suburbanization. So we went through a period in the sixties and seventies of the building of these cookie cutter stadiums that were also publicly financing at that point in time, they cost maybe 150, $200 million, and then it continued again, we'll have another wave in the 1990s, which flipped the model back. Hey, let's, let's put the stadium back in, in the center of the city. That's where the businesses are. That's where the most money is. So that was a new model. And again, it was overwhelmingly publicly refinance. Maybe most of the stadiums in the nineties were more like 70 to 85% publicly financed, but that's very, to great deal from city.

18 (14m 59s):
The cities, the smaller cities of course had much less leverage in any event that that's the basic evolution of this pattern. And one of the things that's happened in the last 10 years or so is the stadium costs have gone up from being 300, 400, $500 million up to a billion dollars and more all the way up to the stadium in Inglewood, California, that Stan cranky built for $5 billion.

19 (15m 22s):
It's the first indoor outdoor stadium of its kind. We created an open stadium, completely open on all its sides, all the concourses. You feel the ocean breeze right now where we're standing on the field

18 (15m 32s):
Stadiums have grown more and more expensive. It's less and less politically feasible for mayors and city counselor counselors to say, okay, well we'll, we'll pay for 80% of that because they don't have the money. So what they do is they, they make these deals with the team owner that says, since you're putting up more money, nominally or putting up more money upfront, what we'll do since you're putting up all of them, we'll give you 50 acres of land around the stadium to develop. As you see fit. And we won't charge you to property taxes for the next 20 years, or they make some, they make some such deal. So the model has changed a little bit more recently in part because of a lot of bad publicity that these deals have gotten. But in part also because it's just too expensive for cities to be taking up at least upfront paying that kind of money.

18 (16m 18s):
But of course, when they give the tax exemption for 10 or 20 or 30 years, that leads to the same thing, just giving up revenue that they would have otherwise gotten. And if they're giving them land for free, same thing again, they're giving them something of value. It's just not cash up front.

2 (16m 38s):
So that was like the entire history right there, which is incredible. I wonder if I can go back and sort of pull on a string connected to one word you use somewhere in the middle of that history lesson, which was leverage. Tell me more about the leverage these teams had against cities, because you think they need the cities more than the cities need them, but is that the case?

18 (17m 4s):
Look, the fact of the matter is, and the U S court system has validated what I'm about to say over and over and over again is each of these major leagues in the United States, whether it's MLB or NFL or NBA or NHL or whatever it is, they're monopolies MLB major league baseball is the only producer of top level baseball in the United States. Same thing with the NFL NBA, et cetera. So they're monopolies and as monopolies they do what all monopolies do. They restrict their output relative to demand, and that enables them to charge higher prices. One way they charge higher prices is by charging more for tickets and concessions. Another way they charge higher prices is by extracting public subsidies to build them their stadiums.

2 (17m 48s):
As these deals have evolved. I wonder who benefits more? Does the city benefit more or does the team benefit more

18 (17m 56s):
Well it's case by case? Always because the devil's in the details, but if you're going to generalize about it, the generalization is that having a professional sports team in your city or having a stadium, a new stadium or a new arena in your city doesn't lend itself to promoting economic development. It doesn't lend itself to generating more jobs or raising per capita income in the population. That's what virtually every single academic scholar, independent scholarly study has found that having a professional sports team is not a driver of economic development. It's promoted that way because politicians and the team owners want to want to find political support for it.

18 (18m 39s):
No politician wants to spend $500 million or $800 million. And they say, oh, by the way of bad news, we have a big deficit and I have to cut school the school budget this year,

2 (18m 49s):
But that's exactly what happens. Well,

18 (18m 51s):
Sometimes it happens

2 (18m 53s):
When all these academics and scholars and economists look at this in the aggregate and say, oh, this never really works out. Is there, is there one example everyone looks at? And it goes, well, that was the worst one we ever did. That was the Hindenburg of, of stadium deals.

18 (19m 7s):
I don't know if there's a worst example. It maybe it's cute to say, oh, this one is worse than all the others. And this one is second worst and so on. I think that pretty much, you know, 90% of the deals that were, were cut over the last 40 or 50 years have not been economically beneficial or financially beneficial to a city. They've, they've created a budgetary hole that has to be filled. How do you fill it either by raising taxes or lowering other services? I think that's the reality. Now, if public treasuries are putting down an initial 850 million as Buffalo is, then they're obligated to do another 280 million of maintenance and improvements to the stadium. And they're hoping that they're going to be able to generate enough revenue off of the stadium in order to cover their debt service.

18 (19m 51s):
But I don't see it. So I think there are cases like Buffalo and their cases, other cases, but what happened in Oakland recently where the team left before the bill was paid and the city is having to pick up all the debt surface, even though the team went to Las Vegas,

20 (20m 5s):
I look at what the mayor of Oakland just tweeted out yesterday, calling the NFL, a billionaire boys club that ditched Oakland out of sheer greed. They go on to call the NFL a cartel and said, some of their practices are bribes in this lawsuit that they've put forward.

2 (20m 20s):
What's the city of Oakland to do. They've got this massive stadium. They don't even have a football team. Even when they had the football team, they only used it, you know, 20 nights out of the year. What do you do then with this massive investment you've made?

18 (20m 34s):
I think what you have to do is first of all, make sure that you've negotiated as hard and as effectively as you can, the, the notion that, that you would have debt service on hundreds of millions of dollars of bonds for years, but the team isn't obligated to stay for 30 years, it makes no sense to me. As I understand the Buffalo deal, by the way, it stipulates that they're supposed to stay for 30 years, but it gives the bills and out after 15 years. So they might get in the same situation that Oakland is. Now, there's a little penalty. If you leave before 30 years, there's a penalty that diminishes between your 15 and your 30, but that, that doesn't make sense to me. You shouldn't sign bills like that.

2 (21m 12s):
What's a situation that went well for a city and the team what's like the gold standard of this kind of deal.

18 (21m 20s):
I think the Atlantic yards deal in Brooklyn that brought what was then the New Jersey nets to Brooklyn. And now the Brooklyn nets,

21 (21m 28s):
Brooklyn arena is the first deliverable of the plan to $4.9 billion project. That's supposed to eventually have 17 structures in all.

18 (21m 36s):
That was, it was financed by the Ratner corporation, which at the time owned the nets,

11 (21m 41s):
The Atlantic yards project received upwards of $300 million in public funds and subsidies from the state and the city and developer forest city Ratner and its CEO, Bruce Ratner made a lot of promises.

18 (21m 54s):
So you have a public investment on, on the one hand that is eight, eight or $900 million. If you have a private investment, that's close to $5 billion.

22 (22m 5s):
We are finally here to celebrate a grand opening of a Barclays center arena. Okay. And you know what, here it is.

18 (22m 17s):
And, and you, you brought an area for life. So, you know, it seems to me that that that's a plus plus

2 (22m 25s):
Remember at the beginning of this interview, when I asked you about the history and you gave it to me starting about in the 1950s, right. That was the moment where cities said, we'll throw you some money if you build a stadium. Yeah. Yeah. What if that moment never happened? What if cities back then said to hell with you, you need us more than we need you. We're not giving you a nickel. They'd have to just front the money. They'd just have to ask their billionaires to build these stadiums. Right?

18 (22m 54s):
The answer is we wouldn't have nearly as many modern stadiums, stadiums would be a lot simpler than they currently are. Biggest cities might have slightly more elaborate stadiums, but they would be a lot less elaborate than they are now. And one of the, one of the consequences of that is that the teams would be less profitable and hence they would have lower franchise values and they have now, and the players, by the way, would be playing in stadiums that had fewer people who were spending less money on the tickets. So there, there are what economists called marginal revenue product or the value of what they produce would be lower than the players salaries would be lower. So we, yes, that could happen, but it's a counterfactual and it's not something that, you know, somebody can get be elected president and snap his or her fingers and get that to change.

18 (23m 40s):
It's very useful to say, gee, if we didn't spend 800 million on the stadium, we could spend $800 million improving our school system.

2 (23m 49s):
Yeah.

18 (23m 50s):
If it were the case that building the stadium actually will produce more tax revenue than it will produce obligations, financial obligations for the city, then that, then that actually enriches the city's ability to provide services. And that that's so that's potentially a good thing.

2 (24m 7s):
But the issue is, you're saying by and large, the stadiums don't bring that kind of revenue to city.

18 (24m 13s):
That's right. That's right. I'm just not willing to say they never do because I think there are exceptions.

2 (24m 17s):
Well, I hope for the people of Buffalo, this is an exception. Professor Andrew Zimbalist. He's with Smith college out in north Hampton, Massachusetts, before him, you heard from Jerry Zremski, he's the Washington bureau chief for the Buffalo news. You can find his work@buffalonews.com, Hottie Milwaukee, deep produced today's show Laura Bullard and Matthew collect fact checked it. The theme Shapiro and Paul mousey engineered. And I edited the Sean Rama's from it's today explained