4 (5s):
Students across the world today are walking out of school to protest for action on the climate. It's in conjunction with the big un climate Summit. Maybe you heard about the sixteen-year-old climate activists Greta who took a boat across the Atlantic for the occasion. Everyone's focusing on the big but I'm sort of caught up on the small and I'm catching up today explained in the small. I asked producer/reporter. No, I'm hassenfeld to help me on this Quest because I heard that there was a chance that my recycling was being burned. Yeah Sean you sent me this article in the guardian from a couple months ago and it was about how Philadelphia was having problems with its recycling system and was sending its recyclables to an incinerator outside the city.

4 (50s):
Yeah, and I think it was kind of like shocking right because it flies in the face of like things that we were taught as children. What happens to your recycling? Yeah. I sort of couldn't believe that it was happening. So I had to go check it out for myself. I wanted to go to a local incinerator operated by the same company. And so I went to an incinerator in Alexandria, Virginia right outside of DC. The combustion chamber, so this is where we're burning weighs about 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit. It's a good view in there. Oh shit. Scared. Yeah, it's just crazy to see this like huge.

4 (1m 33s):
I mean that's a bigger fire than I've ever seen in my life. I think. The u.s. Is in a recycling crisis say goodbye to recycling. If you live in a city of Deltona with lower demand for recyclable products and rising cost of recycling the city decided to suspend its recycling program. The city of Jackson is suspending its curbside recycling program until further notice in Sierra Vista concerns over contamination and cost for city leaders to do away with curbside service a slow-moving recycling crisis. This comes after China stopped accepting the bulk of American Recycling last year.

4 (2m 16s):
So now we're sending this stuff to Southeast Asia. So we were doing that for a while what's happened is because there's so much plastic that we're talking about a lot of the Southeast Asian countries have now been overwhelmed and they have also put in their own plastic bands. So there's all these tons of plastics basically floating around with no clear home. The story of this recycling crisis starts at the beginning of 2018. That was when China essentially stopped accepting the world's crap. The ban was disruptive about half of the plastic that we were recycling was getting exported to China Jenna Jam Beck. She's a National Geographic fellow and a professor at the University of Georgia.

4 (2m 57s):
There were a few reasons why this came to be reason number one basically in the mid-1990s recycling was changing in the US and we went to this single stream system. We could just put all of our recyclables into one bin and then we design facilities to separate those materials out. Those facilities didn't always do the best job. And so they needed sort of this secondary sort, which China was down to do in large part because of Reason number two, the WTO was really encouraging global trade China shipped Goods to the US those ships had to make a return trip and they could go back with this recycled.

4 (3m 37s):
take that then could be imported into China, but the profit margins on recycled plastic are tiny and eventually China said all the extra pollution wasn't worth it to them which basically gets us here a slow-moving recycling crisis, but it's worse than it seems The US was in a recycling crisis. Well before China has banned, even when we were exporting it our average recycling rate for plastic has been around 9% So, you know, that means over 90% of our plastic was not getting recycled. Anyway to be clear that means for the majority of plastic in America about 79% was getting land filled.

4 (4m 25s):
It wasn't that long ago that plastic seemed like a miracle just one word. Yes, sir. I listening just so you Plastics. Well, I just want to say one word to you complicated. We all learned the plastic needs to be separated from trash sure and it helps if your city separates plastic from glass and metals but beyond that plastic needs to be sorted from other plastic, you know those numbers on the bottom next to the recycling logo. Those are actually different types of plastic all made from different materials. All of which have to be separated ones and twos are more recyclable.

4 (5m 8s):
Those are things like your beverage bottles your detergent bottles milk jugs peanut butter jars, then from there number three through seven are things like polypropylene like the container my takeout came in on Thursday and things like PVC, you know, when you think of like water pipes and things like that and they all have different properties in terms of processing so you can't mix them together and when you get to some of these higher numbers more plastic starts ending up in landfills, there's many places that really just even wouldn't accept them in the first place because again, you don't have Enough value in capturing those and then what we are putting into the recycle bin if it's contaminated, then that doesn't get recycled itself.

4 (5m 53s):
And so that percentage that is able to even be recycled just get smaller and smaller but great news even this is way worse than it seems The us only recycles 9% of its plastic seems bad, but that's only plastic. We recycle once and most plastic can only be recycled once or twice. Yeah, really recycling just delays. It doesn't ever really prevent disposal at whatever point and that would be not a landfill or incinerator. And so it really simply only delays that eventual disposal that's needed. So only some plastic can be recycled and during the process more and more gets disqualified and that only delays the inevitable which is plastic going to an incinerator a landfill or even worse the ocean and all of that is happening while plastic production is skyrocketing.

4 (6m 45s):
It's a great future in Plastics that has been rapidly increasing since we started recording this in 1950 and annually now it's over 330 million tonnes. We also calculated the cumulative amount of plastic that we had produced and that was Cool to eight point three billion metric tons. It's very hard to imagine and even when we turned it into something like it's actually equal to 80 million blue whales it's still very hard to imagine. But here's a Twist contrary to everything.

4 (7m 26s):
You've been taught throwing your recycling in the trash might actually be better for the planet a question that was always on our minds was what would be the optimal recycling rate Thomas Kahneman economics Bucknell University. We were hearing that a complete circular economy with 100% recycling was a goal and that sounded great. But we were concerned about the environmental cost of recycling combined with the economic costs. If you care about recycling you probably throw your plastic in a bin and you feel like great I did my part but your plastic goes on a journey. It has to be transformed and all that effort makes your good deed complicated.

4 (8m 14s):
At each stop in the recycling Journey there are both economic and environmental costs. So that recycling bin has put out on the Monday morning with all of the other recycle materials and probably a different truck than the garbage truck will come down and collect those recycled materials the truck dumps it at some processing facility where all the plastic is separated. Ideally. This is all idea because a lot of the plastic ends up in the landfill at this stage because they open up the recycling truck and there's plastic wrap in there and you know, vegetable containers and different types of plastic that buyers don't want in their plastic and so the buyer comes and looks at and says, I won't take that and ends up going to landfill but if it is being truly recycled, then it will be put in a container with other exact materials like it and that container will then be trucked somewhere else probably far from your home.

4 (9m 8s):
So it's a long truck drive. Probably shredded into little bits, which required energy those little plastic bits than could be used in some type of new products. Think about every individual cost in that Journey the cost of the trucks the equipment the labor the gasoline necessary to go around and collect the recycle materials and materials are then processed this requires energy as well as additional labor. All of that energy and all of that labor has a significant environmental cost in the end adding it all up plastic is one of those materials where the benefits are outweighed by the costs my results suggest maybe we shouldn't even be considering recycling for plastic given that the social costs seem to be higher than if we were to do other things with it.

4 (9m 53s):
You're basically saying that recycling can be bad for the environment not just like neutral or forgettable, but actually bad it can be landfills tend to be closer to municipality than a final recycling Outlet is or you take it to the coast and have it shipped to a developing country which still does ocean dumping, you know, which bottle is more likely to end up in the ocean. The one that you sent to your misery landfill or the one that's being shipped to developing country that still dumped in the ocean. So in some cases recycling is actually be bad for the planet. Absolutely and why do you think these sort of second layer questions about you know, whether recycling can actually be good or bad are not necessarily being a Asked by most people.

4 (10m 35s):
I think it became more of a social question than an economic question. The idea was that we produce some too much garbage. It's not sustainable recycling is a way of kind of entering into a more circular economy. And therefore just makes sense to do this. Yeah, and I think recycling maybe it's some point was considered to be sort of like a Gateway activity Gateway into the world of a responsible environmental living that you know, we can get people starting to recycle. This will trigger other questions. How else can I help the environment? Maybe I'll stop driving everywhere and get my bike working and use that more often or I'll walk and I'm not sure that's taken off like that instead of a Gateway. Maybe it's been used as an excuse. Like hey, I recycle and I don't need to do anything else that I can continue to drive my SUV to work and keep my house nice and cold in the summer because I recycle my plastic.

4 (11m 21s):
I'm I'm okay, you know, I'm doing something what's I'm putting you in a situation where you're standing in front of a trash can and a recycling bin and you're holding that one water bottle for you. The cost is exactly the same, you know, you can put it in Either been which would you decide to put it in yourself? Well, you know, I'm a creature of habit like so many of us so I still find myself putting it in the plastic then it's possible that we want to keep the supply chain going just in case there is technological innovation that occurs soon. We're all hoping for that. Right but to be clear for right now. It's better to throw that bottle away with plastic. Yeah. It's better the landfill or incineration.

4 (12m 6s):
All right, this is Sean. I'm back. I started off this whole thing saying incineration is shocking that absolutely cannot be the thing we should do right? But what if it is no, I'm stairs down the fire after the break on today. Explain. You guys listen, I love it or leave it.

4 (12m 48s):
It's a podcast hosted by Jon Lovitz presidential speechwriter comedy writer coast of pod save America each week. He's joined by comedians journalists elected officials activists actors musicians and they break down the latest news a quiz the audience they have fun games and try to understand the frustrations and absurdities of our politics new episodes drop every Saturday morning and the episode that drops this Saturday morning tomorrow will feature me. I was on the show this week. I talked to John and his panel about this development. You may have heard about in Canada this week something about the Prime Minister dressing up in Brown face as a Canadian who has a brown face.

4 (13m 31s):
I had some feelings about it. Check it out. Also fun fact, love it or leave it one of the catch. His theme songs in podcasting. I hope you like what you hear. It's playing wherever your podcasts are playing. Before we get to incineration. Let's just set the stage. Our recycling system is broken. The vast majority of America's plastic is not getting recycled. It's mainly ending up in landfills or Worse the ocean.

4 (14m 11s):
So what do we do well to figure it out. I hopped on a bus and headed down to the covanta incinerator in Alexandria. It's one of about a hundred waste-to-energy plants in the u.s. And like the name says it's designed to do two basic things get rid of waste and generate energy right be a little Gusty out there. You know, we've few thousand tons of trash so there will be an odor too. Kevin mcgonagle Environmental Compliance specialist. He also gives the tours. There's an odor. To be honest though. It's not that bad. Like it's certainly not as bad as where I used to live in New York.

4 (14m 52s):
So yeah, the crane operator is operating the crane or call using a series of joysticks. We're in a giant Warehouse. There's a guy on a perch operating a jumbo version of that arcade claw game picking up mountains of crap instead of teddy bears. There's a huge wall of mixed waste on either side of us plastic cardboard furniture banana peels you name it and right in front of us. There's maybe a 30 40 foot drop down to where the trucks are dumping waste in the waste-to-energy process. This is the beginning Step 1 sorting waste comes in its dumped onto the Tipping for before being pushed into the Refuge storage pit.

4 (15m 32s):
So Kevin, I just saw the claw like lift up and then sort of drop a chunk down with that the mixing process. That's what we call a fluffing the way it's preventing you from just having all of one kind of material all cardboard wallpaper, you know, we know some ways has more heating value like Plastics wet cardboard is going to have less heating values. That's why they're mixing it before feeding. They need to get it just right there's this sea of waste out here, but they're always burning 1/3 plastic 2/3 non-plastic and on the upper ledge with us is a series of Hoppers which are basically these huge buckets with slanted ramps for the waist to slide down on its way to the combustion chamber, once the claw picks up a good mix.

4 (16m 13s):
It's gonna be dropped into that Hopper where to be gravity-fed. This waste will be reduced to Ash in about one hour to two hours. All the trash in the hopper gets burnt up. Yeah, it's going directly into the municipal waste combustor. Can we see some fire? Absolutely Step 2 combustion. This is a view inside the combustion chamber. So this is where we're burning weighs about 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit the way we're generating electricity is we have water wall tubes lining inside of the boiler for heating up water to convert steam steam goes for generator and turns the blades to generate electrical energy.

4 (16m 54s):
It's a good deal. By the time the weights get to this wall. It's reduced to Ash at this point. We've taken a pile of mixed waste burned it and what's left over is Ash and chunks of unburnt metal which brings us to step 3 metal recovery - passes off the end of this vibrating pan. It falls into one truck. The metal is picked up and dropped into a separate box, which is eventually sent to a scrap metal yard. So we should see some recovery here. I'm sure you'll see some spoons and knives and stuff like that. This is just like enormous rotating magnet.

4 (17m 38s):
Yes. There's a bicycle just went by the shopping cart. It's hard to picture just how crazy this all looks there are big chunks of metal like mattress Springs bed frames silver. We're all just going and sticking to this huge rotating magnet. We got about 30 tons a day of that material 11,000 tons per year. That's 11,000 tons of metal that's being recycled every year instead of heading to a landfill. Let's go outside step 4 Pollution Control. See that duct work there. That's where all the flue gases come so you burn trash you've got gases that come off of that.

4 (18m 18s):
That's what that ductwork is. Basically you're injecting a lime slurry a lime slurry is basically a chemical missed that reacts with the flue gas to reduce acid gas emissions. Then it goes to a bag house. Kevin walks over to the bag house which handles the bigger pieces of flying Ash six compartments where the gases are going through it's designed that way. So they go through a cleaning cycle one at a time just blast are knocks Yash down into a hopper here and drops it back into the boiler. So it's kind of a closed loop system. You've got combined - sent to a truck which is eventually at this at this site is simple amount of filler Ash landfill that Ash goes to a landfill but that's only about 10% of the size of the original waste finally we get to step five energy creation.

4 (19m 8s):
Enters the turbine which generates electricity goes to a switch yard run by Dominion, Virginia Power who will sell that to the end user. Okay, that's how they work. So should we be burning all our plastic? It's not ideal. The ideal situation is to reduce waste Marco castaldi chemical engineering City College of New York. The ideal situation after that is to reuse it and then whatever cannot be reduced or reused or recycled have to extract the energy from it and converting it with waste-to-energy has a lower environmental impact than landfilling.

4 (19m 50s):
There's something called the waste hierarchy the waste hierarchy starts with reduce reuse recycle, and that's all most of us got in school. Just the first three words of the waste hierarchy and that's best to worst reduce then reuse then recycle, but guess what's next Plastics now go away. It's incineration. Then all the way at the bottom the worst thing we can do with our waste is drop it in a landfill when you put material into a landfill you're releasing methane, which is 86 times stronger than CO2 over a 20 year time frame, which means for every one ton that you convert in a waste energy facility.

4 (20m 31s):
You have offset nominally one ton of CO2. So greenhouse gas emissions definitely a benefit with waste-to-energy still. There's obviously the whole burning waste thing anytime you're dealing with this garbage. There's going to be a missions in one form of the other whether it's air emissions of solid emissions, but the amount of dioxin that's released from waste-to-energy facilities is miniscule. You will get more exposure to dioxins looking at a firework display for 15 or 20 minutes. Then you will be exposed to dioxins of a waste-to-energy facility processing waste for a hundred years, and there have been studies that Examine the effects of living near these plants.

4 (21m 15s):
In fact one that's just come out where there was a seven-year study on facilities in the UK that looked at infant mortality, you know birth outcomes in terms of you know abnormalities and it showed that there was none even so incineration is really controversial most of the incinerators in the u.s. Today are located in communities of color and low-income communities that are often referred to as environmental justice communities and they contribute pollution to local communities that are already overburdened by other pollution sources on a Baptista runs the Environmental Policy program at the new school in New York.

4 (21m 56s):
It's very difficult. If not impossible to trace Public Health outcomes to any one particular facility. What I am confident about is incinerators are definitely contributing to the overall pollution burden in a community in Until Justice communities if you ask them what their target is, they would say they don't prefer landfills or incinerators Professor Baptista wants the world. We were promised ideas like zero Waste Solutions that divert a lot more of the waste stream to composting and to recycling and in some cases looking at opportunities to reduce the overall burden load on Waste Systems.

4 (22m 44s):
I should point out that this particular debate is very American in Europe. It's a whole different ballgame. First of all, they're just way better at recycling. They're also way more into incinerating. There's about 500 incinerators in Europe. America's got under a hundred greater Paris garbage that can't be recycled is converted into energy some of which the plants Used to run themselves Sweden Burns half its waste and even import some from the UK just to burn it Sweden is considered the world leader in the field of waste-to-energy in Vienna.

4 (23m 24s):
The incinerator is featured on postcards. I think it's pretty remarkable step that city of Vienna did this but the most original plant is probably in Copenhagen downhill downtown. This is the city center Power Station the neighbors don't object to the Danish plant has an actual ski slope on its roof. Seriously our ski slope here. The at Copan Hill is a lot different than when you visit a mountain. I also good there's a lot of reasons why the US and Europe are so different when it comes to waste Europe needs the energy from incineration more than the u.s. Does because it's not as rich in fossil fuels and they have much much less cheap land for landfilling most European countries even have landfill Bans.

4 (24m 13s):
Most noticeably incinerators are right there in the middle of some of the ritziest neighborhoods the most well-known like they wanted me and now the Copenhagen and the one in Amsterdam and Paris. It's not necessarily it is where you have a poverty. I mean most lands in Europe, I would not say that they are kind of hidden somewhere Yannick vac zero-waste Europe Brussels not a fan of incinerators, but not because of the pollution. I don't think the hair pollution is the main issue nowadays. It's mainly the lock-in effect. The fact that these are plants that have to be therefore in order to pay back at least 25 30 40 years and and that locks the race management system into burning even though countries in Europe are some of the best recyclers on Earth Yannick wants even more government investment in recycling like Professor Anna Baptista at the new school.

4 (25m 5s):
He wants the world. We were promised Reduce Reuse maybe even recycle in Europe it Feel nearly as Out Of Reach back in the United States things are a little more dire. China doesn't want our plastic. We're using more and more of it every day only 9% of it is getting recycled and then people are scared of incineration, but maybe that's because people don't understand just how bad waste really is and who can blame them Europe is burning things out in the open where mostly doing it in poor neighborhoods and communities of color Europe talks about landfill bans, the u.s.

4 (25m 46s):
Talks about plastic straw bands and that is not putting much of a dent in those 80 million blue whales worth of plastic incineration can and should be part of the solution, but we can't just go burning all of our plastic plants can't handle it which is why I covanta stopped burning recyclables outside of Philly and has rejected similar offers from other cities to What's Left is a choice with no easy answer either. We stop making so much plastic. Somehow we innovate our way out of the problem in a sense China forcing our hand here might have been a good thing. It might Force us to confront the ugly realities of incineration or the even uglier realities of landfills or the ugliest reality of floating plastic Islands the size of Texas, whatever the less than ideal scenario is we're living it right now and most of us don't even know it.

4 (26m 57s):
No, I'm hasn't felt reporter producer today explained. I'm Sean Rama's firm Irene. Noguchi is our executive producer over here the film Shapiro's the engineer Bridget McCarthy. I'm gonna al-saadi and Halima shop reduces. Well will Has been our summer intern up until today, but I'll good Summers come to an end what he's taught us. Is that where there's a will there's a way shoutouts to Jelani Carter for being our best friend in New York City and to the mysterious brake master cylinder who I can only assume is heading out to Area 51 right now today explained as a 401 episode old co-production of Stitcher and vaux.

4 (27m 37s):
We are part of the VOX media podcast Network.