0 (1s):
Lawmakers convened on Capitol Hill this week to politely, but definitively put the screws to NASA.

2 (8s):
Last week, NASA announced the delay of Artemis two to September, 2025 and Artemis three to September, 2026. I look forward to hearing from NASA about the cause of these delays.

0 (20s):
The Artemis missions will return man and woman this time to the moon, but the US has competition from Chinese astronauts from an unmanned Japanese craft. That moon landed literally today. It looks like

3 (32s):
It has reached on the moon.

0 (34s):
This modern space race is very expensive. So NASA is turning to the commercial space sector that's dominated by powerful CEOs, your Elon Musks and your Jeff Bezos. They strike out too. In fact, an American company's moon crashed just this week, but they can afford it. The race for the Moon Coming up on today explained to the

1 (54s):
Moon,

4 (1m 0s):
The enduring appeal of Donald Trump explained by fan culture.

5 (1m 5s):
It's human nature to to love being in a community of people who are all excited about the same thing you are. Whether that's people getting excited about Jesus on a Sunday morning, or people getting excited about Taylor Swift on a Saturday night.

4 (1m 19s):
What happens when supporters become stands? That's this week on the weeds.

0 (1m 31s):
Hey there. Before we get into today's show, I wanna ask you about something. So this month, primaries for the 2024 election begin and we all deserve to have clear, concise information on what this election could mean for our lives, our family's lives. Misinformation is a big deal this time around. It's not just Pope Francis in a puffer jacket. There's a lot out there that's really challenging to wade through financial contributions from our listeners. Empower us to do all of this and help us keep today explained free for everyone. You can go to Vox dot com slash give to contribute. And I just wanna thank you for your support.

6 (2m 9s):
It's one small step for man

2 (2m 17s):
Today. It's blame.

0 (2m 18s):
I'm Noel King. Chris Davenport covers NASA and the space industry for the Washington Post. He's been covering all the big space news, which if you haven't been following closely, is that the US is planning to go back to the moon. So Chris, how's that going?

7 (2m 33s):
So this was actually a plan called Artemis that was born during the Trump administration where they decided they wanted to focus NASA on returning astronauts to the moon under the Obama administration. It had been this journey to Mars.

8 (2m 50s):
I understand that some believe that we should attempt a return to the surface of the moon first as previously planned, but I I, I just have to say pretty bluntly here, we've been there before

7 (3m 4s):
And the Trump administration came in and said, no, we wanna, we wanna go back to the moon.

9 (3m 8s):
We're dreaming big. This is a giant step toward that inspiring future and toward reclaiming America's proud destiny in space.

7 (3m 20s):
And NASA's initial plan was to get astronauts there. By 2028, the Trump administration came and said, no, we wanna do that by 2024. This incredibly ambitious timeline, that few thought was actually possible and as it turns out it was, it was not possible. But what was significant is that the Biden administration embrace the Artemis program. And that is the first time you have had subsequent presidential administrations embrace a, a moon mission or, or a deep space, human space like mission. Since the Apollo era service

10 (3m 52s):
The mission you're about to go on, the United States can return people of the moon. It's hard to believe for first time in over 50 years. And the worst part is, I can remember exactly where I was when they announced that man has landed on the moon. Doesn't mean I'm old, just means you guys are moving quickly.

7 (4m 8s):
So they did keep the Artemis program, which is a big deal, but the timeline, however, is changing and, and they came in and said initially, 2024 is not feasible. We're gonna hope to do it by 2025. Now, as we know, just recently they announced that's gonna slip somewhat significantly. So

11 (4m 27s):
What I want to tell you is we are adjusting our schedule to target Artemis two for September of 2025 and September of 2026 for Artemis three, which will send humans for the first time to the lunar South Pole.

7 (4m 48s):
There's gonna be the next mission, which will have four astronauts in the Orion capsule in the spacecraft. And it will fly around the moon. It won't land on the moon, it'll fly around it. And that is being pushed back to September of next year. And the lunar landing about a year after that, showing just how you know, difficult these missions can be

0 (5m 13s):
Man has been to the moon, Joe Biden and President Trump were both alive for it. Why if we've been there and we've done it, are these two successive presidents who run the United States government, why are they so keen to get us back to the moon?

7 (5m 28s):
Well the, the moon today in some ways is not the moon that we visited in the late sixties and early seventies during the Apollo era.

12 (5m 38s):
Oh geez.

13 (5m 39s):
Ality base here, the eagle has landed Roger Tranquility, we copy on the ground, you got a bunch of guys about to turn blue. We're breathing again.

12 (5m 47s):
Thanks a lot.

7 (5m 49s):
What we know about it today is that it's not dry. It there's water on the moon. There's water in the form of ice at the poles of the moon, particularly in the South pole of the moon. And so that's where NASA and the White House wants to go. And water is important because it's not just water to drink and if you can break it up oxygen to breathe, but the component parts hydrogen and oxygen can also be used as rocket fuel. And if you can mine the water and then separate the parts, that is a very big deal that could allow broader exploration of the solar system and particularly getting to Mars.

7 (6m 30s):
The other thing that's different now, it's not just the the United States, I mean we had this Cold War space race during Apollo at the Soviet Union.

14 (6m 38s):
The dramatic achievements in space which occurred in recent weeks should have made clear to us all as did the Sputnik in 1957. The impact of this adventure on the minds of men everywhere who are attempting to make a determination of which road they should take.

7 (6m 59s):
Now it's with China and because of the presence of water and because of the presence of other resources there, both countries wanna set up a more permanent presence and really stay there in order to take advantage of the resources there, which again is very different from Apollo where we went, the astronauts stayed for a couple of days and then they left and they came home. Now they wanna go and really go but to stay.

0 (7m 27s):
When NASA does send astronauts to the moon as it's planning to do, what is that mission gonna look like?

7 (7m 34s):
Well, the first mission, you know, will be something similar to the previous ones. Two, one, because that first mission won't be an enduring one. The astronauts will go and they will come home. They need to test out the hardware

15 (7m 48s):
Back to the moon and beyond.

7 (7m 51s):
But what will be significant about it is while the rocket and the spacecraft that get the astronauts to the moon, the lunar lander, the spacecraft that they'll transfer to to get them to the surface of the moon, will won't be owned and operated by NASA. It'll be owned and operated by a private company on the first mission. It'll be SpaceX, which is obviously Elon Musk's company. In

16 (8m 16s):
Order for the Atmos program to succeed, we must succeed with with Starship. And like I said, we actually want to Forex for exceed what NASA's asked us to do.

7 (8m 26s):
NASA is trying to harness the growing capability in the commercial space sector. And so com SpaceX won that contract to build the spacecraft known as Starship to ferry astronauts to and from the lunar surface. And on subsequent missions, it won't just be SpaceX, it'll be Blue Origin, which is Jeff Bezos's company.

17 (8m 46s):
The lunar lander we're developing for NASA, the Mark two lander that's part of the Artemis program. They call it the sustaining Lander

7 (8m 55s):
Program because they've also won a contract to build a lander capable of taking astronauts to the moon. And this is the way actually NASA's been going for some time building out these public-private partnerships. It started with flying cargo and supplies to the International Space Station and science experiments, not people but, but payloads and cargo that evolved into flying cargo to flying people to the International Space Station. And SpaceX does that now, and Boeing also has a contract to do that. They haven't been able yet to fly astronauts there, but Boeing is working on it and its first flight could come as soon as April.

7 (9m 36s):
And now they're extending that paradigm all the way out to the moon and having these public-private partnerships because you know, we've got this growing commercial space sector that we just did not have 30 years ago.

0 (9m 50s):
So when the rocket goes up, I'm thinking of the rocket going up into the air and for whatever reason I can see in my brain the rocket has NASA written on the Sidedo it. You're saying the Rockets will be owned by private companies. Is it gonna have like SpaceX written on the side instead of NASA?

7 (10m 6s):
Well, it depends on which rocket. It depends on which mission. In the Artemis program, the program going to the moon, you have a mix of the old and the new, the rocket that will take off from Earth is NASA's rocket. It's called the Space launch system. It is owned and operated by NASA and is built by taxpayers, the rocket or the spacecraft rather, that will meet up with the astronauts in orbit around the moon and then take them down to the surface and then take them back off the surface. That will be a commercial spacecraft. And that's what's so interesting and you see the evolution of these programs and where, and the Artemis Moon missions, they're sort of combining both types of systems.

0 (10m 55s):
Do you think there's any danger in the private sector playing such a large role in space travel and space flight working so closely with NASA? Yeah,

7 (11m 3s):
I mean you've got a lot of power right now in the hands of a few companies and, and that's a concern. I mean, particularly if those companies were to go away, that capability, which NASA needs would be lost. Part of the problem is that it's dominated in large part by SpaceX. SpaceX is the only way that NASA, it's able to fly its astronauts to the International Space Station. you know, for a long time we were unable to do that. I mean the space shuttle had retired in 2011 and NASA was forced to rely on Russia to fly its astronauts to the Space Station. And now SpaceX does it. As I mentioned earlier, NASA had also awarded a contract to Boeing to do this, to create some incentive to create a competition between the two companies and to have a backup in case something happened to SpaceX.

7 (11m 54s):
But Boeing has not been able to deliver, they have not been able to fly astronauts leading, leaving SpaceX as the sole provider. So I think NASA would really like to have Boeing on board charging ahead, competing with SpaceX because when you have competition, it's not just to drive down the price, it will increase efficiencies and safety and redundancy and all of that.

18 (12m 18s):
We want more competition. We want two landers. And it means that you have reliability, you have backups, it benefits NASA, it benefits the American people.

7 (12m 35s):
So I think a lot of people are looking at it and think it will be better and a little bit more fair and equal once there are more companies that are able to get out there to compete.

Indeed (13m 9s):
Support for today. Explained comes from Indeed. When you're hiring, you know how tedious it can feel to find the right person with a job search. But what if you get rid of the search altogether and just match? Indeed is a matching and hiring platform with over 350 million global monthly visitors according to Indeed data and a matching engine that can help you find quality candidates fast. According to a recent Indeed survey, 93% of employers agree Indeed delivers. Listeners of the show will get a $75 sponsored job credit to help you get your jobs. More visibility at Indeed dot com slash today explained. You can go to Indeed dot com slash today explained right now and let them know you heard about Indeed on this podcast. Indeed dot com slash today explained terms and conditions do apply.

The Vergecast (14m 14s):
A few weeks ago I started hearing this one song on TikTok over and over, over it's being played over tons of videos of the North Sea videos of vessels crashing down into huge waves and deep dark water Capsizing ships, all with this hauntingly low tone piece of music. The song blew up on TikTok and it created a whole genre of videos on the platform. I kind of just put together this dream team of singers That's Bobby Waters known around the internet as Bobby Bass. He's a bass singer. TikTok Was a great way for bass singers to kinda like duet or whether it would be singing a song like an Octave Lower. Bobby produced his version of Hoist the Colors, which is a song from a Pirates of the Caribbean movie. And it took off and it became the unofficial official soundtrack of Terrifying Videos. We have the story of that song and how North Sea TikTok took over the internet on the Vergecast. Anywhere you get podcasts, It's today explained.

0 (15m 26s):
My co-pilot is Chris Davenport, he's the space reporter for the Washington Post. Chris, in the first half of the show we talked about Artemis and the mission to the moon. Let's now talk about the International Space Station, what it is and where it fits into these new NASA priorities.

7 (15m 43s):
The International Space Station is an orbiting laboratory and it has been a foothold in space where people have been living continuously for more than 20 years. And if you just think about that, that's pretty amazing that there has always been a human being in space for the past 23 years or so. We even recycle our urine.

20 (16m 5s):
Yeah,

7 (16m 6s):
Astronauts go up there and they conduct science experiments. The other benefit of the International Space Station, it sort of shows the soft power diplomacy of NASA and how it binds international partners together.

26 (16m 20s):
I want to point out again how important it's to work together. Right now you see five nationalities here and we are looking forward to work together.

7 (16m 29s):
So on the International Space Station you have NASA working with the European Space Agency, working with Japan, and of course working with its main partner Russia. So even when there have been geopolitical tensions on the ground, particularly with Russia's invasion of of Ukraine, that partnership in space has continued to to operate.

0 (16m 50s):
The private sector has gotten involved with the Moon missions. Is the private sector at all getting involved with the International Space Station?

7 (16m 58s):
They are NASA's looking at the the ISS and realizing that it's been up there in the harsh vacuum of space for more than two decades. And as they look ahead, particularly as they focus on the moon, NASA's saying they don't have the budget to go out and build another space station, but they don't wanna lose their hold and low earth orbit. They wanna keep astronauts going to low earth orbit. And so they're looking to the private sector to build commercial habitats in space that NASA would continue to use. But they would use it as a customer, one customer of potentially many other customers on these commercial space stations.

0 (17m 39s):
Okay. So are companies going to be bidding or approaching NASA? Are they gonna be competing to build the new International Space Station? How will, how will this work?

7 (17m 48s):
Yeah, that's right. NASA has already had a competition. They had the first round private

27 (17m 52s):
Companies have until February 12th to submit a design protocol to dock and eventually crash the space station in a safe space on earth.

7 (18m 2s):
You have Blue Origin again. Jeff Bezos's Space Company is leading the effort on one side with some other partner companies and a company called NanoRacks on the other side in Voyager space that are receiving tens of or hundreds of millions of dollars to build their commercial space stations. We

28 (18m 21s):
As a country can't have a gap in terms of capability in low earth orbit. So it's really important that we commercialize low Earth orbit in anticipation of the ISS being offline as early as 2030.

7 (18m 33s):
There's another company called Axiom Space that actually begun building their space station even before this.

29 (18m 40s):
We competed for a contract with NASA. We won that back in January of 2020. And from there we've been working on developing the world's first commercial space station. We'll assemble it, attach to the International Space Station starting in late 2024.

7 (19m 0s):
They're based in, in Houston and hope within a couple of years to send up a module that would actually connect with the International Space Station so they can test it and see how it works. And then eventually it would detach and become a free flyer and they would build on that. So yes, you are seeing again, this extension of the commercialization of space and these public-private partnerships with NASA move into a new arena that traditionally had been the exclusive domain of governments.

0 (19m 31s):
What would an international Space Station built by private companies look like? Is it gonna be, is it gonna be nicer? I don't,

7 (19m 38s):
I think so. I mean, I think, yeah, I mean, Axiom for example, has hired, you know, this French architect and they want the design to be much more modern and to the extent that it can be comfortable and plush. Whereas the ISS is, you know, if you've been to a federal office building here in office, you know, Washington DC it's, you know, functioning but not very stylish. And a commercial station I think would be more stylish. There would be an emphasis on greater views of Earth. Hmm. So Axiom talks about having these big windows and so does Blue Origin. 'cause I think that's part of what you do. Now, the ISS does have a cupola where astronauts do spend a lot of time, but they're there primarily to do science and research, not to stargaze, but I think if you have a commercial company that may have some space tourists go up there, they're gonna maximize comfort and, and the views of space, which, you know, if you talk to any astronaut, they say those views of earth from space are really profound.

0 (20m 37s):
But this newer plusher model of an ISS, it's still, it's its main task would still be serving NASA's interests. There's no, there's no no competition over who's in charge of it?

7 (20m 49s):
Well, the, the commercial company would be in charge of it. It's their space station. Wow.

0 (20m 53s):
Yeah.

7 (20m 54s):
And NASA would use it and, and rent space on it and be, you know, one customer of many customers and wanna send up its astronauts to do research. But you might have astronauts from other countries wanna do this. Other countries say that are not partners on the International Space Station who wanna go up. You might have scientists from universities, you might wanna have space tourists as I mentioned. You might wanna have, you know, film production companies that wanna, you know, film a really cool scene. I mean, there's talk that Tom Cruise actually at some point would go to the International Space Station.

30 (21m 31s):
I feel the need, the need for speed

7 (21m 36s):
And you could see more marketing TV commercials filled in, filmed in space, that sort of thing. I mean, I think once you open it up to the commercial sector, it's whatever people can come up with where they think they can make money.

0 (21m 51s):
I'm not non-private business. I'm, I'm in a lot of ways very pro business. But I do wonder, I do wonder about Elon Musk being the one who has the controller, frankly. Any, any, you know, any CEO of any company having control over all of this, making the decisions about all of this while NASA, you know, rents out a couple rooms. You, you've been, you've been covering space for a long time. You also strike me as very levelheaded reporter. Do you think that we society lose something when space travel, when space exploration, when hanging out in low earth orbit goes totally private?

7 (22m 29s):
You know, NASA's it's, it's there for the taxpayer, it's there for the purpose of the United States and for the country. These missions, you know, during the early days you think of, you know, John Glenn and Neil Armstrong and all these astronauts, they were, you know, almost in a way like soldiers going off to combat and carrying the flag. And it meant something to put an American flag on the moon. And now opening up to commercial interests, you wonder if space travel is in a way losing its dignity. And you know, particularly if all of a sudden you've got marketing and advertising

31 (23m 6s):
Too much garbage in your face. There's plenty of space out in space B and l star liners leaving each day. We'll clean up the mess while you are away.

7 (23m 15s):
We think of space in this expanse, this sort of global commons for all of humankind now being taken over by corporations. I think that is concerning. Other people though would say that that's a sort of natural evolution of things that government, you know, pioneered all sorts of travel like, you know, commercial aviation for example. And now it's just a routine part of our lives and we're able to go where we want. And that's just the price of business. And, and the commercial industry has shown that it can move faster and it can be better in a lot of ways than the government, which is, you know, as perhaps it should be buried under these layers of bureaucracy where a, a company can be much more efficient.

7 (24m 3s):
But you do wonder if there shouldn't be a better balance of the two somehow. But I do think with the commercialization of space, you are losing those early days and the sort of probity and, and the sort of nostalgia that we had for that era. It's almost like, you know, where have you gone John Glenn, because we don't have that anymore with whether it's Elon or Jeff or Richard Branson or any of them. I mean, it's just markedly different.

0 (24m 30s):
It also strikes me that space, space travel space exploration wasn't ultimately profitable enough for NASA. This is expensive stuff and the return on it is, you know, open to interpretation. Do, did you ever manage to ask any of these big CEOs, like how are you gonna make money off of this?

7 (24m 53s):
That's the big question. At what point do we sort of go into the tipping point where there is a self-sustaining space economy where it can stand on its own? And when I say that, I mean without NASA or really the Pentagon as well because you know, the Pentagon has enormous interest in space and also relies on all of these companies and gives them millions, if not Billions of dollars in contracts. But when do we get to the point where it's no longer driven by the government and these companies aren't dependent on the government And it is clear that we are not there yet and it is unclear whether we will ever get there.

16 (25m 35s):
We, we want to go far beyond the NASA requirements and actually be able to put enough payload on the moon with enough frequency that you could actually have a permanently occupied moon base. That's the next really big threshold from Apollo is have a, have an actual moon base.

7 (25m 52s):
But whether that model will continue as we move out, you know, from low earth orbit to the moon and if there's, you know, any kind of economic activity on and around the moon that remains to be seen. And if that's gonna happen, it's not gonna be really anytime soon.

0 (26m 17s):
Journalist Chris Davenport, his book is The Space Barons Victoria Chamberlin produced today's show and Matthew Collette edited Laura Bullard fact checked and Patrick Boyd engineered, and I'm Noel King. It's today explained. Alright, we've reached the end of the show. You're still here. We put jokes in the credits just for people like you. Now all year we're gonna continue to bring clear and fact-check reporting to this election, to the stakes. And we would welcome your support by giving a monthly or annual contribution.

0 (26m 58s):
You're gonna gain access to expressions of our gratitude members only newsletters q and as with Vox reporters, Sean will come to your home or office and more to be announced. Our explanatory journalism takes resources and your support is a critical part of sustaining this resource intensive work. You can support our work at today explained by going to Vox dot com slash give and contributing today. There's also a link to give in the show notes now if this is not the right time for you, if things are economically tricky, we got you. We'll still be here for you. We'll be doing a show about the economy soon, and we thank you for your support in advance.