1 (5s):
You ever notice that the standard school day in America is about 2 hours shorter than the standard workday that creates a lot of work for parents a lot of stress. There's an entire industry out there designed to deal with the work and stress of this two-hour Gap now some argue that changing school schedules to align better with work schedules would be better for parents. And students and today California, Senator, Kamala Harris is introducing a bill that would do just that a lot of the details are forthcoming. But the big idea is to make kids stay at school a little longer and that doesn't necessarily mean teachers have to teach more but maybe the school provides free childcare after classes are over Senator Harris is not the only one thinking big about school schedules back in her home state.

1 (59s):
They've already made a big change. but understand the change you have to understand 0. I had no idea what zero period was when I moved to California from Canada when I was teenager, but it immediately became an essential part of my life zero period is actually where I made my first friend in the United States, Hello Zack on Saker hunsaker can hear me I can't hey I wanted to ask you a couple questions about High School. You got a second cool. I don't know if you remember how we met. I do you want to say junior year High School junior year of high school?

1 (1m 41s):
I remember I just moved to California. I didn't have any friends yet. And you sat I'm going to say in front of me in mr. Rob's 0. Algebra 2. To math class. Is that right? That's correct. Yes. I remember you had a Blink 182 sticker on your folder something and I was like, I like Blink 182. Yeah, my girlfriend. You want to be friends? That's how it started. Do you remember what time that class started 7 a.m. 7 a.m. Yeah. We're breath to be there that early.

1 (2m 21s):
Do you remember why we elected to take a math class at 7:00 in the morning. I just remember I was trying to get out of school at noon. I think that was the only way to do that. Did you hear that Futures acts and Sean's might not get to meet at school at 7:00 in the morning anymore? I did not

4 (2m 38s):
California just passed the first law that mandates a later school start time for middle and high school

1 (2m 45s):
students Katrina Schwartz covers education for KQED in San Francisco. It's the first of a

4 (2m 50s):
Kind law, although some school districts. In other parts of the country have done something similar, but this is the first Statewide law and it would go into effect in three years. So districts basically have three years to figure out how they're going to do.

1 (3m 2s):
This is California. Just coming around to the idea that asking kids to wake up at 5:00 6:00. Because kind of extra.

4 (3m 9s):
Yeah, I mean that what the reason that they passed this law is that there's a lot of research showing that especially teenagers their circadian rhythms are a little bit different as you know, you go through adolescence and so really they need to be sleeping in a little bit later in order to be fully awake. And so this argument is all about achievement and sort of wellbeing for young people that you know being at school at 7:30 in the morning is just really not optimal for this age group. But on the other side are all the Educators and school doctors who are saying, you know, this is going to be a huge shift for us. It takes a lot of logistics to change the school schedule and it's going to affect a lot of

1 (3m 45s):
people. So can we just like talk about the law explicitly? What exactly does it

4 (3m 49s):
dictate? Yeah, so the law says that middle schools have to start at 8 a.m. Or later and high schools have to start at 8:30 or later. You can still have zero periods, by the way, so you could still be going to school at 7:30 in the morning, but that's mostly for like electives and things. Yeah, and then there are a few exemptions for Rural schools. Obviously. Those are the schools that have the biggest issues with Transportation. So they are exempt. Although this does affect Charter Schools who you know in many other areas of In-law have a little bit more leeway. But in this bill they are affected by this as well

1 (4m 26s):
and people push back saying this was I don't know Nanny State cool. Nanny State who lets you sleep late.

4 (4m 33s):
Yeah that there was pushed back a lot of districts push back. And like I said teachers the School Board Association the school administrators pretty much any adult who was in charge of running schools push back against this and of course there were some parents to I mean the I think parents are kind of split on this but I should just tell you that the, California Parent-teacher Association was in favor of this bill. They backed it. So parents are probably all over the place on this depending on their individual circumstances, but it will really depend how districts do this. Like do they get buy-in from the parent Community do they tell them about the science? Do they tell them why they're doing this and why it's important and kind of get people on board before they just like make a sweeping change that affects the mornings of let you know hundreds of thousands of

1 (5m 15s):
families. And not just people with kids for people driving to work at the same time as people with kids and school buses is having more kids start at the exact same time potentially going to create more traffic affect municipalities and other

4 (5m 34s):
ways. I think a huge issue was just the amount of administrative effort. It will take to reschedule all the buses because already buses are staggered, you know, like one bus who might be used for a school that has an earlier start time and then pick up a whole other set of kids for a different School. And those are like carefully monitored. They're trying to maximize like the use of each bus and each bus driver. So definitely some districts were saying this could cost us millions of dollars to one figure out how to redo the schedule, you know, all the administrative time and thinking about it and then potentially having to use more buses hire more bus drivers that could all take time. And then the other big thing was just this idea that one size does not fit all like what works for one District doesn't work for others and people just really feeling Ang like we value local control and education that's like a core part of Education in the United States.

4 (6m 26s):
That's why we have such different laws in each state and it's true of local districts as well that they like Implement laws differently and every Community looks different

1 (6m 35s):
hmm between how diverse California is as a state and all the conflicting needs of parents and all the scheduling. It sounds like there could actually be a lot on the line here for California.

4 (6m 47s):
Well, you know, whenever you're the first in the country to do something people are You and you know, California is a big state and often especially with education policy other people follow suit, although I guess that's true of like many kinds of policy and California. So, you know other states and districts are aware of the research around this is been like in the conversation for a while the effect of lack of sleep on teens. I mean, especially because we're seeing some high rates of anxiety and sleeplessness achievement rates and stuff like that. People are saying okay. We need to really pay attention to the mental health of our adolescents and not just have these schedules dictated by the adults in the system. We should be really prioritizing the young people themselves. So other people are interested in this and our may be studying it are considering bills of their own and they're watching California to find out if it works here.

4 (7m 34s):
So I think how it's implemented then whether we do a good job with it. That'll determine a lot for the rest of the

1 (7m 39s):
country. Well starting school later actually help kids sleep more that is after the break on today explained. What are you doing? What are you doing, Ray? What are you doing baby out of you? And what are you doing rated and reviewing and one more?

1 (8m 23s):
Every now and then pick your favorite episode and send it to a friend you one more thing every now make your favorite episode is send it to a friend. What are you doing fives? What are you doing? This day explains to do explain.

4 (8m 58s):
I am dr. Lisa Meltzer. I am an associate professor of pediatrics at National Jewish Health and Denver and I am a Pediatric Sleep

1 (9m 7s):
psychologist. Let's just start with the million dollar question doc. Why do we need

4 (9m 11s):
sleep? That's a great question and something that researchers continue to look at there's a number of competing theories about why we sleep there isn't one single one that's been identified. But clearly sleep is essential. Otherwise, it would be As one great researcher said, you know Evolutions greatest mistake that we need to sleep every single night,

1 (9m 34s):
but what I noticed lately in life because a lot of my friends have kids is that babies sleep all day and as someone who makes a daily news podcast clearly adults can get by with very little sleep how much sleep do adolescents

4 (9m 48s):
need adolescents have a biological need of about nine and a quarter hours of

1 (9m 53s):
sleep nine. And a quarter

4 (9m 56s):
nine and a quarter. Yeah, they did these really cool studies where they put teens in a special sleep lab for several weeks. They were completely disconnected. No technology no clocks. They had dim light 24 hours a day. So they never knew what time of day it was and they let them sleep as much as they wanted and that's how we know that when you catch up on your sleep these teens on average need nine and a quarter hours of sleep. So again, that's a range. There's some teens who may only need eight hours and there's some teens who I need ten hours but there are very very few teens who actually need less than 8 hours yet in the United States. We know that about 75 percent of teens get less than 8 hours of

1 (10m 38s):
sleep. How much sleep do I need? I'm very selfishly wondering the answer to that question.

4 (10m 45s):
Now, it's a general range adults generally need between seven and nine hours again with an average somewhere around the 8-hour point, but there are some adults who definitely do need more than 9 hours every night and there's some adults who really only need seven hours. There are few people who do need less than seven hours, but the majority of people who get less than seven hours of sleep are getting by on that. So that's not their actual sleep. Need they're just functioning in a constant state of sleep deprivation.

1 (11m 16s):
Nice sounds sounds about right why do adolescents need more are they are they lazy

4 (11m 25s):
know their brain is developing and changing their bodies are growing. So one of the first things that happens after you fall asleep is growth hormones released so our teens our kids are babies at their growing during their sleep and so sleep is really important for physical growth. It's a important for their In regulation, so this is just biological development and this carries into you know, adolescents continues all the way into the early 20s. So this really is a need for sleep that people often just say is laziness, but it's not

1 (11m 57s):
I guess it's time this back to this California law and the reality here. I wonder you know, when I was a teenager, I stayed up until midnight talking to the homies on the phone and stuff. I could have just gone to sleep earlier. I suppose is that an issue here that Giving kids more time in the morning won't necessarily fix their sleep patterns will just stay up even

4 (12m 18s):
later. No, there are no studies that consistently show that teens stay up later. So when it gets dark out in the evening most of us melatonin is released. So melatonin, is this hormone it promotes sleep. Now what happens in teens is that the timing of that melatonin is released later by about one to two hours for most Two teens and what that means is then it's hard for them to fall asleep early, you know on the other end when you have the early school start times. We're asking our teens to wake up 5:00 5:30 and 6 o'clock at the latest in order to get to school on time. So it's not just an issue of telling our teens to get off their phones and go to bed earlier.

4 (13m 2s):
It's about giving our teens the opportunity to get enough sleep each night.

1 (13m 7s):
Is there a chance you're that kid starting school later actually helps them out. Academically to

4 (13m 13s):
so there are a few small studies that do show some improvements in grades most notably in the first and second periods, because those are the times that are the earliest. So when you delay those start times then those class periods get later and students do perform better. So that's something that we're seeing. What we do know is that delaying start times do actually help kids get more sleep. So here in the Denver area one of our large districts change their start times and we've been following up and what we found was that prior to the start time change just like the national average less than 30 percent of our students were getting at least eight hours of sleep and following the start time change our students their 61 percent that are now getting at least 8 hours of sleep.

4 (13m 59s):
So we more than doubled the number of students who are getting at least 8 hours of sleep simply by starting school later.

1 (14m 7s):
I mean, the science isn't all new is it? Why were we having kids wake? So gosh darn early in the first

4 (14m 13s):
place. So there's you know, a lot of competing theories for why school start times have continued to get earlier and earlier. A lot of districts will tell you it's a transportation issue. It's a safety issue. It's a farming issue. None of them are really that important at this point when we know the science, we know the need for sleep. We know the biological importance of teens getting enough sleep. So this is not new information. It's just taken a a long time for it to become important enough for our society to act on it.

1 (14m 48s):
Do you listen to hip-hop Lisa?

4 (14m 49s):
Not much.

1 (14m 50s):
Now there's this rapper Nas who famously wrapped on his 1994 magnum opus Illmatic help. I never sleep because sleep is the cousin to death. What do you say to people who are just like, you know sleeping that important. I'll do it when I die for the rest of time.

4 (15m 7s):
Yeah, when I was in graduate school and I'd complain my brother would always say Lisa you can sleep when you're dead. So now what do I tell people I tell people that is true. The problem is is that if you don't sleep now, you will be dead a lot

1 (15m 18s):
sooner boom. Lisa Meltzer is a Pediatric Sleep psychologist at National Jewish Health in Denver, Colorado, Katrina Schwartz who you heard from earlier in the show is an education reporter at KQED and the co host of NPR's mindshift podcast and Zach hunsaker who you heard from before Lisa. He's just a dude. I've been friends with for 18 years. Can you believe that hunsaker? I'm Sean promise from this is today. Explain.