0 (1s):
Like a good neighbor,

1 (7s):
Unless you wanna own a house in California

0 (12s):
With

1 (12s):
Allstate, not if you wanna buy a house in California State Farm and Allstate recently to the shock of many announced they won't insure new homes in the Golden State,

2 (21s):
California homeowners didn't get much of a heads up and so the announcement kind of freaked out. A lot of people,

1 (26s):
Insurance is a risk business and climate change has made it too risky. The main culprit in California, wildfires is not just a California problem. If you live in the northeast United States, you've noticed a gray paw and the smell of smoke that's drifting down from fires in Canada. You can take comfort in the fact that you have homeowner's insurance for now ahead on today explained are insurance companies finally telling Americans what state and local governments refuse to that some places in this country have become too risky to live in.

3 (1m 1s):
When you drive a Chevy electric vehicle, you're getting more than a way to get from point A to point B. You're saying goodbye to gas stations and hello to open roads. With a growing network of public charging stations, you'll be able to charge your EV while you shop work, or do whatever you wanna be doing with your time. Chevy's making EVs for everyone everywhere. Go to chevrolet.com/electric to learn more.

4 (1m 29s):
It's summer blockbuster season. And if you're tired of movies with mediocre special effects, guess what? So are the artists who make them.

5 (1m 37s):
And by overworking these, these employees, you know, who are already so few in numbers, basically it's a race to the bottom. And you know the, the films decline in quality. The fans revolt the they, they earn less money. And you know, the population of qualified workers is that much closer to complete burnout.

4 (1m 54s):
We go behind the green screen this week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast.

1 (2m 6s):
It's today explained AB Noel King Ben Christopher writes about California housing for the news site, Cal Matters. And he tells us that State Farm made its announcement late last month on a Friday afternoon, which if you work in news, you know means it is news you would like to vanish from the radar. Quickly, I asked Ben what reason State Farm gave. So

2 (2m 26s):
State Farm laid out three main reasons. It was not doing new business in the California home insurance market.

6 (2m 34s):
Number one, historic increases in construction costs outpacing inflation, rapidly growing catastrophe exposure, and a challenging reinsurance market. In other words, kind of a toxic combination of all factors. All

2 (2m 49s):
Three of these things that kind of boil down to the same underlying issue, which is wildfire risk.

1 (2m 54s):
Wildfire risk. Okay, explain construction costs outpacing inflation. Why do construction costs matter here?

2 (2m 60s):
Yeah, so the, the high cost of construction makes rebuilding really expensive in California. Rising construction costs are not specifically a California issue. We've heard a lot about inflation and supply chain bottlenecks. There was a run up in the prices for lumber earlier during the pandemic, but the prices of other raw materials have gone up as well. And in California specifically, there is an overall shortage of workers in residential construction. That's one of the many, many, many reasons that building in California is so expensive. And so construction costs are high in California. But from an insurance company perspective, that's really only an issue if you need to rebuild a bunch of homes all at once as you would after a big fire

1 (3m 42s):
After fire. Okay. Growing catastrophe exposure. The second one you said it's basically wildfires. California does have other problems. Flooding has been an issue over the winter. We saw some of that. Would fires be the sole thing that they're pointing to? Yeah,

2 (3m 57s):
Fires the biggie. I mean, everyone knows California has earthquakes where the earthquakes state, right? But fires the big one.

7 (4m 3s):
The threat of wildfires has grown every year ripping through forest scarring, hillsides, destroying whole communities.

2 (4m 10s):
It's the one that's getting much more expensive, much worse. To put that in perspective of the top 20 most destructive wildfires in California history in terms of the number of buildings destroyed, 13 of them have been since 2017.

1 (4m 29s):
And then these companies are also citing the reinsurance market, which means what exactly? Yeah,

2 (4m 36s):
So reinsurance is just insurance that insurance companies buy for themselves. Let's say an insurance company is doing business in rural California or in another kind of high risk area like the Gulf Coast. And all of a sudden there's a big natural disaster and the company gets hit with tens of thousands of claims all at once. If they have reinsurance on those policies, that means they don't have to pay out the entire bill. They can pass along some of the costs to this other company. And depending on how big the natural disaster is, without reinsurance that could throw the company into bankruptcy. So it's a protective measure. The problem is that the people who run reinsurance companies, they read the news too and they know that California's wildfire problem is not going away anytime soon.

2 (5m 20s):
And so the cost of reinsurance has gone up as well, making it much more costly and much more risky for insurance companies to sell insurance in California.

1 (5m 29s):
If I'm a homeowner in California or I plan on moving to California and buying a house, what does this mean for me?

2 (5m 35s):
Well, so if you are a homeowner and you have a State Farm policy right now, or an all-state policy right now, you are good for now. Ah, so for now, this is a no new customer policy. Insurance companies do renew their policies every year, whether this means that State Farm is going to get more picky about who it covers, when it comes times to renew, we don't know yet. But for now, this is just for new customers.

1 (6m 1s):
State Farm and Allstate are both large companies, you know, kind of household name companies. How big a deal is this for people in California? Do they have other choices?

2 (6m 9s):
They do, but State Farm is the biggie. They are the biggest player in the state's home insurance market as of 2021, which is the last time this data was made public, they had about 20% of the home insurance market in California as market share. Then that's in part why this was seen as such a big deal, even though they're hardly the first to rethink their exposure level in California. So you had aig, they announced that they were getting out of the California home insurance market entirely last year. We mentioned Allstate, they made their announcement last year, although no one really noticed it at the time. And then really going back to 2017, you've had this more under the radar selective drawdown across California with insurance companies telling customers, particularly in fire prone areas that they wouldn't be renewing their policies.

2 (7m 2s):
And that's left many parts of California in particular, rural California as these kinds of insurance deserts or home insurance policies are just either astronomically expensive or not available at all. Insurance

1 (7m 15s):
Companies are in business to make money. Right? We we could all acknowledge that. I think that's true. Why can't the insurance companies just do what companies normally do when a thing costs them more dearly and raise everybody's premiums? Yeah,

2 (7m 27s):
Well they would really like to do that, but California, like a lot of states, has a department of insurance that regulates many insurance markets and has to approve proposed rate increases in California like 10 other states. We elect our insurance commissioner whose job it is to regulate most of the state's insurance markets and to approve any rate increases. So all insurance premium hikes in the home insurance market have to go through the state's department of insurance. Ah-huh. And particularly as wildfire costs have increased, you've had insurance industry groups complaining. The California's commissioner has not allowed them to charge the rates needed to make covering homeowners in California worth it.

2 (8m 7s):
Incidentally, state Farm back in February requested an almost 30% rate hike that's still pending.

8 (8m 13s):
Consumer groups are saying that State Farm is basically trying to publicly pressure you into approving some of the rate hikes that they were proposing right in the ballpark of about $700 million. Do you think they're trying to pressure you into approving those? Absolutely not. Look, we

2 (8m 28s):
Have, people didn't pay attention to that much of the time. Now people are realizing, oh well maybe that was an indication of where things were going. State Farm didn't mention rate hikes in its announcement when it said that they were pulling back a bit from the California market. But that's the other side of the equation. We were talking about the different rising costs, but their ability to pass those costs along to customers is pretty restricted.

1 (8m 52s):
Why would these companies put a stop to new insurance policies in the entire state and not just restricted to the areas where wildfires have been a problem?

2 (9m 2s):
There are a couple of possible reasons. So one is we think of wildfire as this fundamentally rural problem. Increasingly it's not both because of development into these wildland areas where wildfire is a risk, and also just because wildfire as a result of climate change and forest management is becoming more of a suburban problem. So the San Francisco Bay area suburbs, the hills above Oakland, suburban San Diego, the Inland Empire, which is the fastest growing part of the state, these are all places that have seen big destructive fires in recent history. The other issue is that since the 1960s, California has had a state sponsored insurance company of last resort called the Fair Plan.

2 (9m 46s):
And the Fair plan offers really expensive and skimpy coverage, but if you're someone who cannot buy insurance from anywhere else in the state, you can always fall back on the fair plan. And so now the fair plan is saddled with a bunch of the riskiest home insurance policies in the state. And the question is, if there is a massive wildfire season and the fair plan runs out of money, what happens? And legally the answer is the fair plan is funded by putting fees on private insurers that are doing business in California in proportion to their market share. So the bigger you are in California, the more you would have to pay to bail out the fair plan. And if and when that needs to be bailed out, that could be really, really expensive.

2 (10m 29s):
And so that might be another reason that the big players like State Farm would want to pair back its overall exposure in California, not just in the high risk areas.

1 (10m 45s):
California already has a terrible housing shortage by a lot of measures. The worst in the country. And I wonder whether the knock on effect of this over time is that fewer homes get built in California. Yeah,

2 (10m 58s):
This doesn't help. Most people need a mortgage to buy a house. Lenders generally don't offer home loans without insurance. California actually experienced something like the worst case scenario version of this back in the mid nineties. We had a big earthquake in Southern California.

10 (11m 14s):
It struck without any warning, evacuate, the deadly Northridge earthquake ripped through the Southland while most people were asleep, flattening freeways, bursting gas lines and squashing buildings.

2 (11m 24s):
Insurance companies decided to stop doing business in California basically all at once in the entire real estate market just kind of ground to a halt across the state because no one could buy a home because there wasn't insurance available. We're not there yet, but we have been seeing this kind of slow motion version. Unfortunately, the solution to this current problem proposed both by insurance companies but also a lot of independent policy experts, is that insurance companies need to be allowed to charge more commensurate with the increasing risk in California. But that's not a super appealing option either. As you mentioned, California, it's a really expensive place to buy a home. It's already prohibitively expensive for most people.

2 (12m 5s):
So layering on this new higher cost on top of that is not great for would be homeowners and for an elected insurance commissioner in California, it's really bad politics too. There

11 (12m 15s):
Are some challenges, but we're working on them and I'm very confident we're gonna bring these companies back.

1 (12m 19s):
One of the really interesting things here is that the market has now started to move on climate change. We will no longer ensure homes in the state in a way that the state itself is not doing right. California isn't saying, well you can't build a home in this wildfire zone, you've just gotta find your own insurance in America. We do often defer to markets. And I wonder, do you think that this could change or move the needle in a way on how California starts to think about climate change and about what's necessary? Does the market lead the state in this case?

2 (12m 51s):
Yeah, to a certain extent that is a possibility here where rather than having a sort of top down, perhaps more thoughtful policy led reconsideration of where development happens in California, it is being led simply by the increasing cost of insurance. That's probably not the most desirable or least costly way to manage this change that might be foisted upon the state. But at the moment they do seem to be leading this reconsideration of where homes get built.

1 (13m 25s):
You are our man in California for the purposes of this episode. So let me ask you, can you imagine the state of California at some point saying there will be places in this state where people simply cannot have houses?

2 (13m 36s):
There was actually legislative proposal just this year to put new restrictions on where you could develop in what's called the wildland urban interface, which is basically just rural areas that are at most risk of wildfire while prioritizing development in urban areas. The bill died. And so at least for now, it's not a politically feasible proposal to make, but as wildfires continue to get worse in its insurance costs continue to increase. Perhaps that political calculation will change

1 (14m 11s):
Those. Ben Christopher of Cal Matters. This is not just happening in California because climate change is not just happening in California. Coming up, what managed retreat looks like,

12 (14m 26s):
I just wanted a policy.

1 (14m 30s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King Umer, go ahead and give me your full name and tell me what you do.

13 (14m 36s):
My name is OER Han and I'm a science reporter at Vox.

1 (14m 39s):
Okay, so we've just spent a couple minutes talking about California and insurers there, large insurers there saying we simply won't insure new homes. Are there other parts of this country where insurers have said, nuh not worth it? Oh,

13 (14m 52s):
Absolutely. And this has been a trend that's been going on for a few years, particularly in coastal states around the Gulf Coast, namely Florida and Louisiana. They've seen some of the biggest declines in insurance coverage in recent years. Insurance is regulated at the state level and regulators have to balance basically the business case for insurance. You know, how much they pay out versus how much they take in as well as the policy case. Basically how much people can actually afford to pay. And in a lot of cases, you know, the insurers are telling the state regulators that they can't balance their books based on the amount of risk that they're facing in coastal areas. That makes a lot of sense that you know, hurricanes, particularly in areas like the Gulf Coast are causing a lot more damage, and that's because populations are growing in those vulnerable areas.

13 (15m 40s):
About 40% of the US population lives in a coastal county. About 80% of the US population lives within a hundred miles of a border area. So not just direct damage, but indirect costs from lost business and revenue. Those are big things that are really, you know, vulnerable to a lot of climate and disaster linked events. And so these insurance companies are just saying that the business landscape is just impossible for them to operate in with the constraints that they're facing.

1 (16m 15s):
In the first half of the show, we were talking to Ben Christopher about California's fair plan, if you can't get insurance through anyone else, the fair plan will ensure you. Do other states have things like that or is it just California? Several

13 (16m 27s):
States have developed a system where they have an insurer of last resort, and that's basically what it sounds like. If nobody else will provide you a policy, the state will. The trade off though is that these are very expensive policies that they're usually something that a lot of people can't easily afford. And they're meant to also serve as a signal that you know you're gonna have to pay for it because you're facing higher risk and maybe buying insurance may not be the best way forward that you should think about relocating or potentially investing in hardening your infrastructure against things like sea level rise or building a larger defensible perimeter against wildfire. But in most states that do have an insurer of last resort, they only ensure a tiny fraction of properties.

13 (17m 9s):
So it's mostly the people who are most desperate or the people who have the most money, who can actually avail themselves of the service. It

1 (17m 15s):
Is the nudge thing that's so fascinating to me. It's the state saying, listen, if you can't find another insurer and we are gonna charge you up the wazoo, maybe you shouldn't be buying that home. Maybe you shouldn't be building in that area as opposed to the state simply saying no, the insurance company says that place is too risky for you to build your retirement home. Companies won't ensure you. We're not gonna ensure you either. You cannot buy there. Has the state ever just said, we're shutting it down?

13 (17m 44s):
I mean, states have tried, but property developers are a powerful political constituency in most states. Several years ago in North Carolina for instance, they started trying to factor sea level rise into their forecast for coastal damages. And when they started doing that, the insurance rates for coastal properties went up. In

14 (18m 2s):
2012, North Carolina passed a law banning the state from making policy based on predictions of rising notion levels.

13 (18m 11s):
And so that raised a lot of, you know, consternation and mockery at the time.

15 (18m 16s):
I think this is a brilliant solution if your science gives you a result that you don't like pass a law saying that the result is illegal problem solved.

13 (18m 28s):
But it shows some of the tensions that these regulators and you know, state officials and property developers are all facing right now. And similarly for individual homeowners, like, you know, we try to send a signal, but it's not really easy to pick up stakes and move if your insurance rate goes up. We've seen more often than not, people just let their insurance coverage lapse. We saw that happen last year when the federal National Flood Insurance program actually started to raise their premiums.

16 (18m 54s):
The majority of Florida homeowners who may start seeing huge spikes in their flood insurance rate, 1.7 million Floridians have bought policies through FEMA's National Flood Insurance Program. And it's

15 (19m 5s):
Not just impacting waterfront

13 (19m 6s):
Mansions, the number of homeowners basically who said that they couldn't afford the new premiums, they didn't move, they just stopped paying for insurance. And now if there is a flood, knowing that there's a higher risk of flooding, they're just gonna be out of luck. If that happens for

1 (19m 19s):
A time now, it has seemed like the government has ignored the market and said, okay, as in the case with wildfires or floods in some part of the country, we will help. What do you think this is telling us that the government is willing to step in where companies won't,

13 (19m 36s):
It shows that, you know, there is again a tension between the business model and the public interest here. The National Flood Insurance Program is a federal program and that was created because very few private insurers would offer flood insurance at all. Now the problem with the federal, you know, flood insurance program is that they try to subsidize the rates, but it's not enough to cover their books. The flood insurance program has been in debt for a very long time. Congress wrote down about 16 billion of flood insurance debt in 2017. The program still has about 20 billion in debt right now, and they even raised their rates last year and it's still not enough to cover their books. Now the federal government basically has a blank check to continue doing these kinds of things.

13 (20m 16s):
But again, if you're a private insurer and you're looking at billions of dollars in debt, that's not something that you can sustain. And so obviously there's something of a public interest and private business mismatch here and it's likely that something has to give.

1 (20m 31s):
A couple years ago you wrote a piece for Vox about something called Managed retreat. Can you explain what managed retreat is and how it might fit in here?

13 (20m 39s):
Well managed retreat is this idea that we start pulling back from vulnerable areas, areas that are extremely prone to wildfires, areas that are likely to see a lot of flooding, not just in coastal areas, but maybe along river banks for instance. And essentially we try to encourage homeowners to move. We buy out their properties, compensate them and try to relocate them to areas that are safer or for the people that don't move, we help subsidize investments to make them more resilient to things like wildfires and flooding. The problem is, of course, that it's expensive to do this and also people don't want to move. They move to these regions to begin with for a reason that either the places where they can afford or you know, they value the waterfront property or they enjoy being close to the wilderness areas.

13 (21m 27s):
That's sort of the exact selling points that brought them to that area in the first place. And it's been a little bit more difficult to do that. And so they try to use these nudges, but those nudges can only go so far given the powerful economic forces that force people to stay. And so the question then is just like, how do you do this? Like, I mean, I think there's also the equity question that, you know, people who can afford to buy homes, especially in these expensive areas, maybe they should be paying for their own resilience. They should be paying for their own retreat rather than the taxpayer helping them out here. But at the same time, you know, people have to live somewhere and, and it's, there's really hard to find a place that isn't gonna be vulnerable to some kind of risk at some point in the future. We've seen, you know, wildfires in the Midwest this year, we've seen epic dust storms, drought, Arizona recently in Phoenix.

13 (22m 12s):
They said that they're gonna stop development in that area because they're worried about running around of groundwater. So there are some kinds of backstops, there are some limits to what we can do, but the question is, what do you do with the existing property? What do you do with the people who are already living there? And that is really a big conflict that's brewing. It's already starting to happen. I mean, in the United States we do have climate refugees effectively in some of the barrier islands around Louisiana and the Gulf Coast. Charles, there's already an indigenous native community that's being federally relocated.

17 (22m 49s):
It is the first federally funded community relocation in the country, brought on by sinking grounds and rising sea levels along Louisiana's disappearing coast in crisis.

13 (22m 60s):
They're having some of their property bought up and they're being moved towards areas further inland into other areas. We're seeing some of this happening with indigenous communities in the Alaskan Barrier Islands, but these are, you know, very small piecemeal projects and they're happening to, you know, scattered communities. We're not seeing the sort of wholesale relocation you would need for protecting a city like Miami, for instance, that's right there on the waterfront. But we do have some of this processes already underway and obviously, you know, there, there's a lot of tension there as well. I mean, people have a very strong sense of place that, you know, you lose that when you're forced to relocate when your home is being swallowed up by water or destroyed in a disaster.

13 (23m 40s):
And so there's also this sort of mental health problem here that we also have to deal with this sort of social dislocation that we're also starting to see as well. And we're just beginning to grapple with that.

1 (23m 58s):
That was Vox Umer Han Today's show was produced by Avishai Artsy and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Michael Rayfield. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.