3 (10s):
So imagine you're a Californian you are going about your life and day is normal and you start noticing that the weather has changed its gotten windier dryer what we call a Red Flag Warning in California where we know that the conditions are really ripe for Wildfire. And then you start hearing maybe through the news maybe through social media that Pacific Gas and Electric Company, which is known colloquially as PGE the state's largest utility. Is going to start actually turning off the power on purpose in order to prevent their equipment from sparking wildfires. They want to create an emergency situation so that we don't end up in a bigger

1 (51s):
emergency.

3 (55s):
So you were basically being told to prepare to lose your power to prevent an emergency

1 (1m 2s):
hundreds of thousands of customers are without power across California waking up to a

2 (1m 6s):
widespread blackout as

1 (1m 8s):
utility company. Try to lower. Lower the risk of deadly fire.

3 (1m 13s):
So what do you do? You start thinking about what happens if the power goes out for an extended period of time we're talking days on it. So maybe you decide to go to Target or Walmart or wherever you kind of go to your big box store and you're probably going to stay on the line for a while with a lot of other people who are buying things like ice and batteries maybe even generators. You're trying to think through. How do you feed your kids? Keep yourself safe, maybe get to Work because maybe you still have to go to work in this whole situation. So then the power gets cut. And now you're sitting in the dark and you probably took the time to charge your cell phone ahead of time.

3 (1m 57s):
Maybe you have some backup power, but you're really worried about whether or not you can communicate with people. Tell them you're all right, you're all so worried that there could be a fire because the whole point of this is that these are really scary conditions that could lead to a wildfire. And so especially if you live in a more rural community, you're probably trying to keep an eye on your phone and make sure that there's no Sam. Urgency evacuation orders happening, but also you're trying to make sure that you don't open your refrigerator accidentally because the more you open it the more likely all your food is to spoil if you own a small business. You probably have been forced to close. You're probably not going to work or school. Most of the time schools are going to be closed if the power goes out.

3 (2m 38s):
So you're also trying to figure out what to do with your children and then you get word that there is actually a fire

1 (2m 43s):
happening.

2 (2m 49s):
On this block alone several homes incinerated in minutes miracle say firefighters everyone got out

3 (2m 56s):
alive, and it might just be a sheriff's deputy or police officer outside with a loudspeaker telling you to get out of your

2 (3m 3s):
neighborhood. Where you at? All right. Let me get

3 (3m 11s):
then you have to get in your car and try to fight with everybody else trying to flee this

2 (3m 15s):
fire Highway 101 is now closed in both directions because the smoke is heavy and the wind is so

1 (3m 23s):
fierce.

3 (3m 28s):
And odds are if you're in one of these areas, you probably have lived through wildfires in the past. And so you're going to have quite frankly the trauma of that situation and having fled Flames before sort of Weighing on

1 (3m 41s):
you.

3 (3m 44s):
Also, you know, what else goes out when power goes out and then wildfires sweep through our cell phone towers. So your cell phone may not even be working. So you can't call anyone you are in a place where Leave the street lights don't work the traffic lights. Don't work. You are trying to get away from an advancing wildfire. This isn't actually like some apocalyptic Hollywood movie. This is what's been happening in California in recent weeks in Southern California as well as Northern California, but the biggest effects and the scariest one so far have been really in sort of the area surrounding San Francisco and up into the Sierra Foothills.

3 (4m 25s):
We're in several different kind of segments in recent weeks. We've had power cut to upwards of 2 million people at a time and the last week we saw a huge fire. Out in Sonoma County

2 (4m 37s):
the Kincaid flyer the largest in the state doubling in size this weekend The Blaze now bigger than Boston

1 (4m 43s):
this ring video showing residents fleeing as the Flames raced towards their homes Friday morning. You can see the blaze towering over them in the Hills near by

3 (4m 52s):
hundreds of thousands of people who were without power already or adjacent to areas without power then had to flee their homes from these wildfires including one that broke out on Sunday right next to one of the bigger bridges in the area.

2 (5m 6s):
Area, oh my God. Oh my God. I can't believe they're letting us drive through this. It feels

3 (5m 16s):
very end of days here because you feel the winds. You know what that means Governor Gavin Newsom actually said on Monday

2 (5m 23s):
many of you may not be aware that we have put down over 330 fires just in the last 20 hours.

3 (5m 32s):
Those are the ones we don't even hear about but that puts in perspective sort of just like the Magnitude of what's Happening Here It feels like it's everywhere and it's almost inescapable. Murcielagos. You've been covering these fires and PG&E California's biggest utility for years now at KQED, but right now California is in a state of emergency. How much of the state is dealing with fires or blackouts or both. We are talking about hundreds of miles north and south of San Francisco as well as huge swaths up in the Sierra. Foothills so, you know from Lake Tahoe and north and and down towards Yosemite and what about in Southern California Southern California really hasn't been experienced this level of blackouts.

3 (6m 17s):
Now part of that of course is because of how huge PG&E is service area is but it's also because this is a utility with a really terrible track record that is already in bankruptcy court because of the past fires that caused and is it a point where they are really trying not to screw up any more for the future of their open e and by extension our electricity service because it's the only one we got and so they're sort of balancing the fact that we all pay them for the power and it's really inconvenient when it goes out with the fact that a huge wildfire in the conditions were living in right now can spread very quickly threatened tens of thousands of homes, and obviously kill people if we've seen in years past obviously because of the campfire and because of the San Bruno explosion PG&E doesn't exactly have Have the full trust and confidence of the people of Northern California.

3 (7m 12s):
How does it decide at this point Who's electricity to kill and who's to keep on? That is an excellent question and one that we have some clarity on but not a ton. So some of it may be just an abundance of caution. But I think more broadly we're talking about old technology here, you know, you have transmission towers and other equipments that's decades-old. Most of it is not under grounded. It's all hanging out there and that's the problem when the wind kicks up if it takes down the lines they spark fires. And so even with these shut offs, it's possible that You may have caused the big fire now burning the Kincaid fire and Sonoma County.

3 (7m 54s):
They've also admitted that their equipment probably caused a couple of other minor fires in the East Bay this weekend

2 (7m 60s):
PG&E now says two fires that broke out Sunday less than 20 miles Northeast of San Francisco in Lafayette, including one that destroyed this Tennis Club may have been caused by its own electrical malfunctions,

3 (8m 14s):
even as a large portion of the state sitting in the dark

2 (8m 17s):
utility also says it fail Old to notify 23,000 customers including 500 with medical conditions before shutting off their

3 (8m 26s):
power. It feels like a tricky time to learn how to do this on the job is PG&E ready for the rest of this fire season? No, I mean pges answer to their ongoing equipment problems. Isn't we can fix this quickly? It's that we're just going to cut off your power. I mean we're paying for a service and they're telling us they do not have the ability. They had to deliver that service in a manner that safe and going to keep California's lights on and so I think nobody is ready and there's a lot of anger and they've said that it could take them 10 years to basically fix this. Wow. Yeah, it's pretty messed up. I mean Beyond PGE like how's California doing right now?

3 (9m 11s):
It's kind of rough. Honestly, I mean, it feels like like even in San Francisco where I am where the power has stayed on and in some ways life has sort of you know marched on as normal the weather's just been strange like it doesn't feel natural to have 90 degree heat in San Francisco in mid-october with very high winds, you know, you wake up in the morning and you walk outside. You can smell smoke. I have young kids. We're constantly monitoring the air quality and talking about whether we should let them play

1 (9m 40s):
outside. It's just super awful because I live in a two-bedroom apartment and keeping two boys inside all day is like terrible.

3 (9m 49s):
And obviously these are minor problems compared to people who are in evacuation centers are sitting in the dark or whose homes are burning up. But I do think that there's a sense right now that like things are weird here and this has happened the last couple October's and I don't know this used to be my favorite time of year. It's Halloween this week things should be sort of like cooling-off start wearing your fall clothes and it just

1 (10m 9s):
feels not right. My name is a brown lustgarten. I live in Marin County just North of San Francisco. And we're into our second blackout. So my kids are home from preschool which is closed and we've been without power for 4 days. Now refrigerator is not working.

1 (10m 49s):
Our heat does not work. We can't use cell phones or Access Data lines to connect to the internet and we are primed for evacuation at any moment. Should there be a fire in our very vulnerable area? So the Close packed with spare water and emergency kits and face masks and headlamps and you know all sorts of emergency gear. So we're ready to go. It's an intense almost apocalyptic kind of feeling not only is there an enormous fire about 40 miles north of us the Kincaid fire and Sonoma but just this sort of feeling of foreboding waiting for the other shoe to drop like a disaster is imminent, but but no one can quite say, you know, when at the same time the power shut offs have made life incredibly inconvenient.

1 (11m 37s):
It's not on a big deal to go without power for a short period of time but you go days and days on end and you realize all the intricate ways in which Daily routine and Necessities are interconnected with with the power grid.

3 (11m 50s):
A Brougham, you are an environmental reporter for propublica and you wrote about this experience. You've been having in Marin County just North of San Francisco for propublica. And you actually argued that despite this state of emergency that California's and despite this inconvenience and this sort of frenzy that your families experiencing that these power outages can be a good thing how so

1 (12m 14s):
well, this is a little bit of a search for a silver lining but the intensity of this experience has really begun to Awaken people to the reality of the climate changes that are taking place and that are going to be taking place, you know with ever increasing severity in California and across the country and you know, there's a sense in which the blackouts they make that obvious for whom it's not already obvious. You can't deny that something is happening when the power shuts off in your community, you know, Northern California the San Francisco Bay Area. It's a wealthy area. It's comfortable people and this kind of disruption, you know, it puts the issue, right? You know front and center it's difficult to avoid

3 (12m 53s):
it seems like California's getting hit harder by these climate change-related weather events right now than the rest of the country. Is that the reality or is it just that fire makes for much more striking and image than than

1 (13m 8s):
water, you know, the fires are a particularly violent and disruptive image. I think they capture the imagination of people watching it from afar, but if you take a step back you can start to see these sorts of changes in lots of places when we had the Midwest floods last year the extraordinary and unprecedented way that rainfall has you know Houston not only in Hurricane Harvey but in storm since then which you know defies the record of your average hurricane, the way that temperature is simply increasing across the country or wildfires that we've seen in places like Tennessee in the across the southeast there was a study that came out last week about how American infrastructure and bridges will begin to collapse because the heat changes will affect the expansion joists.

1 (13m 51s):
So the signals out there, you know, if you listen and you start tuning into it you start to see these dramatic changes across the country California has been particularly vulnerable because it's been hotter than usual that has made it particularly vulnerable to burning at the same time that these winds that come every year have also intensified it sort of a perfect storm. But it's I think emblematic of the kind of changes that you can see happening in a lot of different places.

3 (14m 18s):
This is like the third year in a row that He's experienced these kinds of

1 (14m 21s):
extraordinary seasonal wildfires, right it is yeah. It's starting to feel like a new routine.

3 (14m 28s):
Yeah, I wonder about that exactly if it's routine. Does it become sort of expected and therefore I don't know less affecting our people getting sort of used to this idea that out. Let's Fire season. This is gonna suck and then it goes away and then it comes

1 (14m 41s):
back. That sounds logical but I can tell you from living in it that no one feels that way yet. The Fire season sets in with the smoke first, you know, so you can't exercise or go Outdoors the way you know, you might normally want to do it you feel it in your you know in your throat and your eyes, you know, then the local warnings kick in about avoiding fire staying indoors. Then you have the planned power shut offs that intensify the whole experience. It's a pretty dramatic disruption in your reporting. Do you see the Rest of the country taking note

3 (15m 15s):
of what's happening in California, or does this still feel sort of

1 (15m 18s):
isolated to the Golden State? Yeah. No, I think the country is definitely taking note. I mean, you know, this is the I think the most coverage that the San Francisco Bay area has gotten in the New York Times and Washington Post and in the last couple of years, the fires are an arresting site for people outside of the area, I think because they're so vivid and they're so violent and appearance. It's such a visual experience. You know, there's a relatively small fire in the Bay Area. The last weekend where the carquinez bridge in Vallejo California was virtually engulfed in flames and smoke on its Shores and a picture of that fire was quite viral and galvanized attention, you know across the country.

1 (16m 1s):
There is this perception that it's somehow unique or disastrous thing. You know, that is only about California and I and you know, I hope that people can also begin to see the bigger picture that this is, you know One symptom of a much larger illness that we're all going to be experiencing in different ways. A Brahm lustgarten is an

3 (16m 27s):
environmental reporter. You can read his work at propublica Marissa Lagos who heard from earlier in the show co-host the political breakdown podcast of KQED in San

1 (16m 38s):
Francisco. I'm Sean Rama's firm and I host today explained.