0 (1s):
It's been two years since George Floyd was murdered by police in Minneapolis

1 (6s):
To shoppers and go in the middle of the pandemic. We saw a protest across the nation, the likes of which you had to see since the 1960s,

0 (16s):
We still haven't fixed the police

3 (19s):
Growing calls for justice as demonstrators in grand rapids, demand the arrest and termination of the still unnamed police officer who shot 26 year old Patrick Leroy.

0 (29s):
But there's an organization out there pushing for a big change to police departments across the country.

4 (35s):
There's a growing body of research that shows that there is a very compelling, unique value to women officers.

0 (42s):
They say hiring more women, police will foster greater trust in law enforcement and even reduce incidents of excessive force on the show today, we're going to ask if something as simple as hiring more women can fix policing. I'm Sean Rama's from it's today. Explained support for the show. Today comes from slack, which is a tool I will admit to using every day to make this show with the today explained team big ideas. Aren't anything by themselves in order to translate that idea from your brain to the world. You're probably going to need to bring some other people on board and that collaboration, that creative process is happening on slack. There features make it easy for teams to work in different time zones.

0 (1m 24s):
Keep collaborators in the loop and organize projects. Watch the full stories of how teams large and small are achieving impossible feats at slack.com/stories.

6 (1m 37s):
Hurry into mattress firm for a limited time, save up to $500 when you get a king bed for the price of a queen or a queen for a twin plus get a free adjustable base with qualifying Sealy purchases up to $499 in value, or get up to 60% off America's top rated brands like Sealy queen mattresses starting at 2 79 99, or Sleepy's for 1 69 99 in stock for fast delivery. Only at mattress firm restrictions apply, see store or mattress firm.com for details.

7 (2m 13s):
When I was growing up, I rarely saw officers in uniform that looked like me.

0 (2m 18s):
Women make up 12, 13% of police officers in the United States today. Something like 3% of leadership positions in law enforcement.

8 (2m 28s):
I didn't really see that many Hispanic females or even females in general on doing police work,

0 (2m 35s):
But there's a program out there right now, trying to change those numbers, not just change them, like overhaul them. They want women to make up 30% of police forces across the country. More or less double the amount of women in law enforcement right now, correct.

4 (2m 50s):
It's the 30 by 30 initiative.

0 (2m 54s):
Maureen McGuff is leading the charge

4 (2m 57s):
To completely revise police policies, strategies so that they adequately support women officers and really transform agency culture. It's a national grassroots effort that I launched with my co-founder Yvonne Roman. Who's a former captain out of the Newark police department. I was working with Yvonne on a different project and she pointed out sort of the growing body of research about the value of women officers and the persistent underrepresentation and challenged the USDA to do something about it. We brought together women leaders in policing from across the country, all the way down to women officers. Who'd been on the job for less than a year. Researchers, policy makers, and really tried to understand what do we know about women in policing?

4 (3m 38s):
What is their unique value? Why are they so underrepresented and what do we need to do in order to fix it? It felt like we were in high school throwing a party, and we weren't sure if anybody was going to show up. And then the one of the first guests was the NYP de

9 (3m 52s):
The N Y P D has just signed a 30 by 30 pledge. They hope to increase representation of women to 30% by the year 2030.

4 (4m 0s):
And we've got many, many other major Metro signed on

10 (4m 3s):
The Baltimore city police department is working to get more women on the force. It has signed the national 30 by 30 pledge.

11 (4m 11s):
We are here to announce MPDs commitment to the 30 by 30 pled,

12 (4m 18s):
Austin police making a pledge to recruit more women, to get APD to 30% women by the year 2030.

4 (4m 25s):
And we've got LAPD Seattle, Dallas, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Miami, and we've got state agencies. Date agencies have even lower representation of women.

13 (4m 36s):
I department of public safety and Illinois state police have both signed the pledge of increasing the amount of women and their departments to 30% by 2030.

4 (4m 45s):
I think we're up to 12 state agencies who are working with us all the way down to rural and smaller departments with maybe 10, 12 sworn officers on the job.

0 (4m 56s):
What exactly do police departments have to do when they sign up with your program? 30 by 30,

4 (5m 2s):
We have the 30 by 30 pledge, which is a series of known low cost actions that a police department can take immediately to improve the way they support women. And none of it is rocket science, right? I mean, it's, we heard at the summit, some really concerning stories about things like women, not having Kevlar that fit them when they were on patrol, because it was designed for a man's body or women spending thousands of dollars over the course of their career to tailor men's uniform pants, to the curves of a woman's body or women returning to the workplace after giving birth and having to pump in their cruiser in a dark alley or in a public restroom on the toilet. You know, there's really basic things that are very simple, not costly, basic minimum requirements for showing that you're supporting somebody in your workforce and we're helping agencies to do that in the immediate term.

4 (5m 52s):
So when they sign up for this pledge, they sign up and they commit to do a series of immediate actions. Like the ones I just described and longer-term actions over two years, things like policy improvements, improve data collection, surveys, focus groups, strategic planning to really prioritize this issue. They also commit to reporting to us in six month increments so we can get a better understanding of where they need support and design technical assistance to support them moving forward.

0 (6m 16s):
Are you saying that police departments have been so exceptionally patriarchal over the past few decades, that they didn't even realize until y'all came in that maybe women wouldn't want to pump in their cruisers in a dark alley? Is that what you're saying?

4 (6m 29s):
What I do know is that I've heard from a lot of chiefs. They knew that their agency didn't adequately support women and nonwhite officers. They didn't necessarily know exactly how to start addressing that. And what we've given people is not only just a really stepwise framework for how to make those types of improvements, but also a reason to, right. Like there are so many different priorities, please leaders are pulled in all of these different directions. It's complicated there's union issues. And what we've done is really create a space and a movement that people can be a part of with a really clear framework for how to achieve the change that's needed.

0 (7m 5s):
Let's talk about the differences between how men and women police and why so many departments around the country, including some of the biggest ones are so eager to, I guess, get a little closer to parody here. So what do we know, what data do we have on the differences between the way men and women police?

4 (7m 27s):
You know, the research is somewhat limited, but most of it tends to be trending in a very particular direction. And that is that there's a unique value to women officers. So there's research out there that shows that women officers use less force and excessive force. They're named proportionately less in citizen complaints and lawsuits. They use their discretion to make fewer arrests for minor non-violent offenses. They're less likely to make a traffic stop, but more likely to find contraband when they do so they're more accurate in their decision-making about stops. They're associated with better outcomes for crime victims, especially victims of sexual assault. You know, the list is growing.

4 (8m 8s):
And I think the reality is if there was a training out there that promised police departments, these types of outcomes, every department in the country would be clamoring to implement that training. Right. And instead it really is just thinking differently about who it is that is fit to do the work and who you seek to hire and promote.

0 (8m 27s):
Why do you think there hasn't been a real shift in gender parody on police forces across the country in decades? You said, is it our attitudes about who should police this country?

4 (8m 40s):
We as a society still have a really long way to go in terms of gender parody, we've certainly come far, but there's a lot of work still to be done. I think policing is no different and it's an especially hyper masculinized profession. It was predominantly held by and designed for men, which makes progress a little bit more complicated. And then it's compounded by the fact that there's over 18,000 different police departments in this country and no sort of centralized federal leadership about standards or priorities, or, you know, what types of assessments are shown to be validated to accurately assess whether or not somebody can do the job or not. So creating any type of broad scale change in policing, no matter the issue is actually extraordinarily difficult compounded by the fact that we're trying to make this change in a society that is yet to realize gender parody and a lot of friends,

0 (9m 29s):
As part of the idea here, sort of traditional patriarchal thinking that this is a job that is unsafe for women.

4 (9m 37s):
I have not heard that concern when I get pushed back and I will say, I don't get a lot of pushback, but when I do the concern that I get is not that we need to protect our women, but it's skepticism that women are fit for the job of policing. I think it shows a fundamental misunderstanding of what the job of policing actually is and requires. And I think it shows a fundamental misunderstanding about the skills and abilities and strengths of women as a gender broadly. I don't want to be too gender reductionist about it, but you know, the research is there and we've got evidence to support it

0 (10m 7s):
In a scenario where there is say a, I dunno, a pursuit of a potentially violent criminal and a suspect is being apprehended, but then resists arrest. Let's say, is there any data out there that suggests how that suspect or, or violent criminal, whatever it is might respond if his or her arresting officer is a woman versus a man.

4 (10m 31s):
So I haven't seen it directly answering that question, but I think you can extrapolate from some of the use of force research that there would be more cooperation because there is less of a need for force. And, you know, just anecdotally, when we're talking particularly to police leaders around the country, who are women about their career and how they've gotten to the point where they've gotten almost universally, they reflect on the strength of their emotional intelligence and their ability to have a conversation with someone. You know, they're not interested in going hands on because there's usually a size disparity in the people that they're interacting with. And they know they have to rely on their emotional intelligence and their brains in order to gain compliance.

0 (11m 13s):
On the flip side of this, is it sort of sexist to assume that women have more emotional intelligence than men and say like, oh, if we put more women on the force, they'll make better decisions because they're women is that happening here. And is that the sort of, you know, opposite problem.

4 (11m 30s):
I struggle with this a lot when we talk about it, right? Cause it's really easy to misinterpret this as just sort of this gender reductionist thing. Women have emotional intelligence, men have Braun and strength. Men don't have emotional intelligence. Women don't have Braun and strength and those things aren't true. But the research suggests that there is an over-representation of those strengths and traits in women officers. And you know, if we didn't have that research, I don't think we would be doing this work right. Just based on general assumptions about gender specific traits. But when the research shows these types of outcomes, we feel very confident that it's worth pursuing.

0 (12m 5s):
When will you get to, I dunno, start seeing the results of your work. When do you get receipts?

4 (12m 10s):
Well, we've got a police chief in Bellevue, Nebraska. Who's really prioritize this,

14 (12m 15s):
Basically, if you're not intentional about recruiting everyone and showing everyone that they can be successful here, then you're intentionally excluding people.

4 (12m 23s):
He has had recruit classes since joining the initiative since prioritizing this since completing some of the initial steps of the pledge of over 50% women. He's one of the only agencies, if not the only agency in Nebraska who is actually seeing application numbers go up and he's actually seeing women joined his ranks from neighboring states.

14 (12m 41s):
That's exactly what we're trying to do is be successful with the population that we have by being as diverse as they are.

4 (12m 47s):
There's absolutely reasons to be positive about this. It's going to take a really long time and it's going to be fraught and it's going to require a lot of dedication and resources and consistency. But I think we're pretty optimistic that it's imminently doable and we're close.

14 (13m 2s):
It's truly empowering people that are talented to go do what they were hired to do.

4 (13m 7s):
It kind of feels like we're on the precipice of, of much larger and more sustainable change.

0 (13m 17s):
Maureen myGov is the chief of staff at the policing project at NYU law. It's a nonprofit focused on improving democratic accountability and policing. In a moment on the show, we're going to ask someone who studies policing. If simply hiring more women can make enough of a difference. It should. I explained Support for the show today comes from zip recruiter. Summer is proximate, and that means a whole new host of summer activities, swimming, hiking, ice cream truck chasing, please stop with the music ice cream trucks.

0 (14m 3s):
I hate it. Get a new song, whatever you're trying to do this summer, it's probably not sifting through resumes. ZipRecruiter can help with that. Try zip recruiter to find great candidates. They do the work for you. And now you can try for free at ziprecruiter.com/t E ZipRecruiter uses it's powerful technology to find a match the right candidates with your job. You can easily review these recommended candidates and invite your top choices to apply. Additionally, ZipRecruiter has a complete suite of tools that makes it easier to filter review and rate your candidates. So soak up all that summer has to offer and let ZipRecruiter do the work ready for the URL folks. I already said it. I think once it's ziprecruiter.com/t E that's where you can try for free that's T as in today, he is an explained again, ziprecruiter.com/t E ZipRecruiter.

0 (14m 52s):
The smartest way to hire

15 (14m 56s):
Support for today's show comes from future. Future is the app shaking up how you think about exercise. And self-motivation some of the reasons people don't like going to the gym locker rooms don't smell good. Sometimes people don't wipe down the equipment. Then there's that person who goes maybe a little too hard. Future is taking a different approach to fitness. Future partners, you with a personal coach, we'll build a workout program based on your goals. They will hold you accountable and they won't have you doing the same thing every day. In fact, future provides flexibility because they incorporate workout plans that include any activity that you already enjoy doing. Plus your coach won't include exercises that require equipment that you don't like, or that you don't have.

15 (15m 37s):
And what you'll pay monthly for future could be around the cost of one personal training session at a gym. Get started right now with 50% off your first three months at try future.com/explained again, that's try future.com/explained

0 (16m 1s):
We're back it's today explained we're here with Dr. Samantha Simon. She's an assistant professor in the department of criminology and criminal justice at the university of Missouri in St. Louis, Dr. Simon, earlier in the show, we heard about this initiative 30 by 30, that has a lot of police departments around the country excited about, and even committed to putting more women on the force. How far does that go to solve? What are clearly some of our systemic policing problems in the United States?

17 (16m 31s):
I just want to preface this answer really by explaining that I would never push to not try to hire more women police officers. Right? Of course it is a worthwhile endeavor or effort to create equal access to opportunities across gender, across race, across sexualities, across all kinds of social identities. What I do take issue with however, is the way that women have been framed as sort of a cure-all for us policings problems of racism and violence.

0 (17m 3s):
And why are you not reassured by this initiative? As far as its potential to solve a lot of the problems in policing? We see

17 (17m 12s):
First it's really impossible to separate like hiring and training with regards to policing, from policing more broadly, and from policing history, more broadly, a lot of Southern police departments, you know, evolved from slave patrols groups of white men who patrolled areas and were responsible for squelching, any kind of uprisings, and also capturing people who had been enslaved. So this origin story is really, really important, right? For understanding why the police are who they are and why they operate the way that they do today. Second talking more about trainings specifically. So I spent one year doing ethnographic field work, meaning I participated.

17 (17m 53s):
And I also observed police training at four different police academies and what I found and what I was really, really struck by throughout the time that I did field work. And I'm still struck by frankly, when I go back and read some of my field notes is just how overwhelming the emphasis is in the academy training on violence and on danger.

0 (18m 14s):
Tell me more about the issues that are inherent in how police officers are trained.

17 (18m 21s):
My primary argument in my work about training academies is that throughout those six to eight months, hundreds of hours, they're spending there nearly every day. They're warned that around any corner at any moment, if they let their guard down, they will be murdered and that they really needed to prioritize officer's safety above everything else. And if you're living in that reality, it's not hard to understand why we see repeatedly police officers, overreacting of them thinking that when someone reached into their pocket to grab their phone, they were grabbing a gun of thinking of someone is running, that they are running to get a weapon, right?

17 (19m 3s):
Because these are things that they are trained to think about and to conceptualize during those six to eight months in the academy. And so though I can't necessarily draw causal arrows from what I'm seeing in the academy to specific instances of racist violence that we've seen repeatedly over the last, you know, century, but we've been talking about for the last several years, right? I can say that the worldview in which you are being hunted by people, and they really do feel that they are in danger of being, you know, ambushed at any moment, they are trained to believe that this violence is getting worse than it is intensifying. That Ferguson has made it worse to get into the academy and then to graduate from the academy, you really had to align yourself with this worldview regardless of your gender or your race.

17 (19m 54s):
And that's like really the important part there.

0 (19m 56s):
I mean, I want to be sensitive here because police officers do get murdered in the line of duty. But I think what you're trying to say here is that by focusing so much on this idea that they could and will potentially get murdered out in the field, we're losing some crucial training in deescalation, is that right?

17 (20m 20s):
I'm not arguing that police officers should not receive like any tactical training in the academy. Right? The question though, that I'm more focused on is whether the way that new officers are socialized during their training. So at the academy, and once they're in the institution increases the likelihood of mistakes of brutality and of injury or death of the public. So just as like a quick example, and this was during a deescalation class, so this was in the presentation on deescalation of one of the academies I went to, they would show a picture of general James Madis. So, you know, with a quote credited to him that red be polite, be professional, but have a plan to kill everybody you meet.

17 (21m 3s):
And again, that was the deescalation

0 (21m 5s):
Come on. So

17 (21m 6s):
That's sort of the undercurrent of the deescalation class right there. The general approach was that you should be polite. You should be communicative about what's going on, where you can try to, you know, verbally resolve the issue, but ultimately always be prepared for violence.

0 (21m 24s):
What is this environment like for women? Is it any different? Do you see different results in the field?

17 (21m 29s):
So when I went into this research, I was really interested in knowing, like, I felt really optimistic about like, about initiatives, like the 30 by 30 initiative, right? I'm like, yes, there should be more women officers, you know, this could potentially change policing. I became less optimistic about it. The longer I spent time at these academies because really in order to get into the institution, so to get hired and then to graduate, you really do have to align yourself with this general worldview that emphasizes violence. I will say, like the academy is a very intense experience for everyone. They're working 10 to 12 hours a day. They're going through really intense workouts. They have exams weekly.

17 (22m 11s):
So it is really intense for everyone, but it is certainly harder and more complicated for cadets who don't embody the traditional ideals of masculinity and of whiteness. So for women like even seemingly small things really revealed how foreign their bodies were to the institution. So for example, one woman could talk to me about how hard it was to be on her period while she was at the academy, because you could not ask to go to the bathroom. If you were doing like a four hour workout as another example, one of the defensive tactics instructors, whenever the cadets were in a plank position or doing a pushup, he would yell at them to get their ball sacks off the ground.

17 (22m 53s):
There are many bodies in the room, but he's, he's yelling about that. So there was sort of an assumption that male bodies were, you know, the norm and the expectation you are socialized into this institution so that you learn how to look, how to act, how to sound like you're a police officer. And all of that revolves around the use of violence.

0 (23m 17s):
Once they get into the field, are women more likely to deescalate?

17 (23m 21s):
There is a lot of mixed evidence empirically as to whether or not women police differently than men when they're on patrol. So for example, women officers are less likely than men officers to use force or excessive force or their firearms, but women are not any less likely to use force broadly defined. And there are not more likely to provide comfort to civilians during an encounter. So these are all different studies that all have sort of like they, they paint a very complicated picture of how different gender compositions and racial compositions play out on patrol. Other scholars have found no direct link between an officer's gender and race and the outcome of an encounter with a civilian and that more gender and race diverse departments do not have significantly lower rates of police cause homicides,

0 (24m 11s):
A sign of hope here is that it seems like there's 30 by 30 initiative. Isn't falling upon deaf ears, major massive police departments are on board. And to me that at least gives me a sign, a hope that police departments across the country, even ones that are notorious in some cases for having these deescalation issues seem to say like, Hey, we could change and be better.

17 (24m 37s):
The idea that women are going to fix policings violence and racism problem is misguided. I think hiring more women to police departments is worthwhile in and of itself as an equity issue. And this institution policing has been historically quite exclusionary towards women, right? They really weren't even hiring women until title seven. That was not very long ago. Again, I'm not saying that this is not worthwhile and I am sort of heartened by the fact that so many departments have signed on to it. And that this creates a system of accountability so that we can at least track, you know, the demographic composition of these departments and have some sort of system of accountability for these departments to have to report what they're doing to recruit more women.

17 (25m 30s):
And maybe just, maybe that will create a different cultural context for the institution if they are indeed valuing women in the department,

0 (25m 45s):
Dr. Samantha Simon, university of Missouri and St. Louis, you can find out more about the 30 by 30 initiative to hire more women police officers@threezeroxthreezeroinitiative.org. That's 30 by 30 initiative.org. I'm Sean Ramez from our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain edited by Matthew Collette fact-checked by Laura Bullard and mixed and mastered by Paul mousey. It's today explained.