3 (22s):
Today George Floyd's little brother Phil Anis Floyd testified before Congress if his death end up changing the world. for the better and I think it will. Then he died as he lived. It is on you to make sure his death is not in vain Congress is trying on Monday Democrats propose. What they consider a transformative police Reform Bill and on today's show we're going to explain what's in it. But first we're going to try and figure out why policing in the United States is so problematic because it is not this bad everywhere else take for example England.

3 (1m 6s):
This is Paul hirschfeld. He teaches Criminal Justice at Rutgers. In Jersey, but again, we're talking about England for a second. Not Jersey knife violence is quite common there. I believe yet. It is extremely rare for police officers in England to use deadly force on knife-wielding suspects. So they have learned to confront those sorts of deadly threats with much less lethal approaches to put more time and distance between them and the suspect to learn better skills for D escalation. To use less lethal weaponry and equipment for the purpose of subduing those sorts of attackers the police in England have a greater sense of legitimacy and have more respect from the public precisely because they are putting themselves out there.

3 (1m 58s):
They are putting their lives on the line by not carrying guns that demonstrates sort of a sense of honor and sacrifice right there. Paul also told me about Norway because Scandinavia always has some Fairy tale to tell unlike Jersey Shore and Norway tends to be sort of the emblem of how to govern humanely and generously, they're so different than the United States and so many areas including policing that it's hard to try to Simply extrapolate or apply their policies here, but just the fact that they send their officers to National Police Academy for three years three.

3 (2m 40s):
Years. Yes, three years Century College for cops stands in stark contrast to the way we train officers here and just think about how much you can accomplish in 3 years 3 years how that could afford time for police officers to study Communications and psychology cultural awareness of well, of course, you have less diversity there, but there's just so much more you can accomplish in three years. Three years. Yes, three years. I kind of knew what the answer would be but I still asked Paul how many people died in police custody in places like England or Norway compared to the United States.

3 (3m 22s):
You're looking at a handful of cases each year and England. You're lucky if you find one and a year in Norway suffice it to say that rates of deadly force and those two countries in particular are extremely low compared to the United States. It's Mark I asked them why that is I think it could be boiled down to three main factors. I mean, of course there are many factors at play. But number one police officers in the United States are more likely to encounter deadly threats from armed suspects. Number two, the threshold in which police are permitted to use deadly force is lower in the United States and number three are police officers receive much less training hence training tends to focus focus more on what they need to survive rather than the various skills and knowledge.

3 (4m 16s):
They might need to reduce their Reliance on deadly force. Number one. So many guns. Yes. Unfortunately the biggest explanation for a high rates of deadly force has also been the most intractable of the problems. There is no easy solution to the prevalence of guns in the United States the rights to Own guns is enshrined in the Constitution. And even if we were to ban guns, the guns was still remain accessible. What can happen is of course summoning other actors, like social workers or health personnel to certain calls taking armed police presence out of schools.

3 (4m 59s):
And those are certainly viable options. But disarming the police doesn't seem viable to me number two all that deadly force. You've been hearing about used on black Americans. It's hard though to distinguish between cases of deadly force that are driven by racial bias versus those that are result of permissive rules and poorly trained. Please white people in this country also face a far greater likelihood of being killed by the police racism is a heart it's hard to point to that as being an explanation for why States like Arizona and Montana have elevated rates of deadly Force when there are few blacks living in those places the problem of excessive police deadly force.

3 (5m 48s):
It's a risk that we all face as Americans and third the training in the United States the last data I saw for 2013 said that on average police received 21 weeks of classroom training 21 weeks compared to three years as a vast vast difference and so naturally much of the training United States focuses on Teaching them what they need to survive and enforce the law and Crisis Intervention D escalation tend to be add-ons either an in-service training or in sort of one day or two of training at the police academy officers in the United States are trained to fear.

3 (6m 33s):
They are trained to think that worst-case scenarios that have claimed the lives of other officers could happen to them most of them at one point or another probably do encounter. Iran armed suspect they probably will never encounter somebody who is attempting to kill them. But because that possibility exists much of police training in the United States is oriented to protecting officers. Should the worst come to reality that is a big problem because do we really want officers to treat every situation like it's the worst case possible situation or do we want officers to respond to much more likely or typical scenarios when you see These cases of unarmed black men being killed sometimes shot numerous times must have it has to do with officers seeing a reality and being prepared for a reality.

3 (7m 26s):
That doesn't match the reality. They actually were confronted with and just how does the content of these trainings differ in the United States and say Europe the approach is much more comprehensive. It's about training well-rounded officers. Who cannot only enforce the law and respond to dangerous situations, but can also communicate with broad groups of people and understand the various sorts of problems that lead to Crime. So it's not that they're not getting training and combat and gun use and how to use defensive tactics. They're getting that training to but overall the training is much more comprehensive and I'll affords More balanced perspective where police are able to be public servants Community servants while also protecting themselves how much of this feels changeable.

3 (8m 27s):
I mean you've had this moment right now where people are calling to abolish to defund the police. There's more attention on this issue. Maybe than there ever has been before do you think there is an opportunity here to extend training periods to Reese requirements to become a police officer to change the way police officers are using deadly force. I think this presents unprecedented opportunities for change at the local level County state level. I wouldn't go as far as the same National level at this point, but the this does present these opportunities. We've already seen it happening in Minneapolis, of course, but also Portland other places reconsidering policies with respect to deadly force.

3 (9m 14s):
Is none of these towns cities want to be the next Minneapolis. So Minneapolis serves as a cautionary tale and will Propel many local reforms, but if we are going to produce if we're going to have the structural changes that are truly needed that these protesters are really agitating for that will require change at the state level and state level changes require more than the Part of urban legislators right who are responding to these protests. They would require support from rural and Suburban legislators as well. And so what I'd like to see is these protests converge and state-level movements multi partisan movements because that's what you really need to to allow a majority of legislators to be willing to defy the will of the prosecutors and the police associations and really focus.

3 (10m 14s):
On meeting the needs of the public on this issue. State action is needed and depending on what state you live in you might be getting some but the federal government wants to do something to after the break. We'll find out what exactly that is.

1 (10m 48s):
Normally the sponsored read would focus on what all birds does as a business and talk about one of their new products, but there's something much more important happening in our country and around the world right now acknowledging and Justice is not just the kind thing to do. It's the right thing to do as a business. All birds has always stood for the planet and standing for the planet also means standing for its people all birds believes that everyone should be able to enjoy all the Earth has to offer without fearing for their lives because of the color of their skin and while they admit they're not entirely We sure what the right thing to do is at a time like this. I'll Birds knows that just stating support isn't enough. They need to take action as a first step. All birds has contributed to organizations like the national movement for black lives and the NAACP legal defense fund to support their efforts.

1 (11m 35s):
They encourage you to demand change and make your voices heard black lives matter.

3 (11m 44s):
Lee's OU cover Congress for Vox Democrats are working on police reform. What are they going to do? Are they going to defund the police like everyone in the streets asking they can't even do that. Can they that's like a state thing a local thing.

1 (11m 54s):
They are responding to the protesters in part, but they are not going so far as to say they support defunding the police and a big piece of their resistance to that is a fear that the term defunding the police will scare people off during an election year, especially because among many Americans people are satisfied with the job that their local police officers are doing what's been interesting is that Democrats have endorsed what is a piece of defunding the police which is the need to invest more resources in Social Services like education like food Aid that would be more beneficial to society and could help prevent the fundamental causes of inequities and crimes in a way that policing currently does not But they have been reluctant to actually support the movement and say that they will defund the police.

3 (12m 50s):
So what are they doing? Instead? What are they proposing

1 (12m 52s):
instead? What they're proposing is a series of reforms which I think activists would say are more just trying to address current cracks and breaks in the system rather than fundamentally overhauling it and these reforms than throw on a couple different areas. One of them is on the legal accountability that With face if they are engaged in misconduct and so the bill would do away with something called qualified immunity. Another piece of it is addressing the type of force that police are able to use when they are on duty and so it would ban the use of Choke holds at the federal level. It would ban the use of what's known as no-knock warrants in the instance of drug cases, and thirdly it would increase transparency around the data on Some of these issues that police departments have seen and require the creation of a National Registry that would track police misconduct across States and make it easier to figure out if officers that are associated with wrongdoing move

3 (13m 58s):
elsewhere. All right, let's break these down one by one. So starting with qualified immunity. We've alluded to it a few times on our show already. But but for those who don't know what exactly is

1 (14m 10s):
that? Yeah qualified immunity is a legal provision that currently protects all government officials including police officers in the case that they're sued in a civil lawsuit what it means is basically that if someone wants to bring a claim of misconduct against a police officer, they would have to show that there's precedent agent for police having been convicted of similar misconduct in the past so that the person that they are suing was aware that this is a crime when they were committing it and I think that's a very high standard to meet and makes it very difficult for people to pursue such charges.

3 (14m 48s):
How about the chokeholds thing? Obviously that's been very controversial in New York ever since the death of Eric Garner. And in 2020 many many years later. The Democrats in Congress are finally

1 (14m 59s):
And we should do something about that. Right and the idea behind it is that if you make this federal law to Bar the use of Choke holds by police. It will make it easier for the doj to be able to hold police officers accountable in a case where they might be using this maneuver. I think this type of Reform has been questioned by a lot of activists because in New York when the Chokehold was used on Eric Garner, it was actually already banned by the NYPD so people People are asking, you know, do these bands ultimately work because at the end of the day, it's still being used by police who might be using excessive force against people

3 (15m 38s):
and what about these no-knock warrants? What are those

1 (15m 42s):
they are effectively what they sound like it enables police officers to enter someone's home without notifying

3 (15m 49s):
them like to just kick down the door,

1 (15m 51s):
right? Exactly. So it ends up taking a lot of people by surprise and this was the exact warrant that was used in the case of Brianna Taylor's dad. That's when police killed her without warning. And so this law would prevent the use of no-knock warrants at the federal level. I think what's important to know about both the Chokehold ban and the ban on no-knock warrants is that it only applies at the federal level. Although the bill would condition funding for state and local law enforcement agencies based on their willingness to adopt similar

3 (16m 25s):
bands. So that means what this is mostly for like the bi and the National Park police or something,

1 (16m 33s):
right? It means that basically the fact that doj would have more authority to help in bringing cases against police who have used these Maneuvers, but it does limit I think their efficacy given how many law enforcement agencies are state and local

3 (16m 48s):
right which is to say almost all of them. Right? What about this last big provision in this legislation this sort of registry to track misconduct? Tell me a bit more about that and why something like that doesn't already exist.

1 (17m 5s):
I think it's just been a matter of lack of Will and coordination to pull together this type of data right now. When you look at how police stations track information at the state and local levels. A lot of that is very much siloed. And so this is an attempt to try to bring all that information together at a national level. So people can share it. And so that there are less gaps in you know. Bad cops getting new jobs even after they've been disciplined at a particular place.

3 (17m 34s):
Okay, so sweeping reforms at the federal level, but also big implications for state and local level. We've got, you know, a National Registry to track misconduct. We've got no more chokeholds and and no-knock warrants and then an end to qualified immunity, which is a big deal How likely is it that any of this passes lie

1 (17m 58s):
the expectation The bill is similar to a lot of other legislation that we seen go through during this divided Congress, which is that since it's been introduced by democrats and is backed by democrats. It will likely pass the house, but it won't make it through the Senate which is currently controlled by Republicans. And also where Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has said he's interested in coming up with the GOP response to everything we've seen in terms of the test of police brutality and addressing the racial bias and how police treat people

3 (18m 35s):
what does that mean? Is there like potential for a sort of house-senate collaboration here?

1 (18m 40s):
There could be I think what we are likely to see from Republicans is going to be a much more paired down version of what Democrats have introduced Mitt Romney has already said he wants to do a police Reform Bill and he said it'll include things like implicit bias training as well as setting up. Supervisory boards for police stations to navigate when they use racial profiling and when they use use of force, I think what you're hearing being talked about among Republicans is just a much smaller set of reforms than what Democrats are interested in doing. So it's entirely possible that we'll have a compromise bill, but it will likely be much narrower than anything.

1 (19m 21s):
We've heard from Democrats so far,

3 (19m 23s):
but of course anything that the Senate and House collaborated on would have To make its way to the desk of President Donald Trump who has been really dog whistling Law and Order and bashing Joe Biden and a lot of other Progressive leaders for even considering changes to police departments. So is anything that they come up with going to be dead on arrival?

1 (19m 49s):
That's one of the biggest questions right. Now. There's an expectation that Trump will give an address about the protests and about George Floyd's death. This week and it remains to be seen if he's going to put forth some type of endorsement for additional movement on

3 (20m 7s):
this. So does anything really feel different here? Does it feel like the Democrats or anyone else in Congress has accomplished anything this week

1 (20m 18s):
fair question? I think what's notable about this even though you know, you might categorize some of this stuff as more of the messaging legislation then something that will become reality is that it does put a stake in the ground for Democrats, especially for what they might want to do if they were to retake power in the Senate this fall and so that's important. I think secondly, it's an important acknowledgement of the work that protesters have been doing certainly what's been proposed is very far from I think what a lot of activists are actually interested in and looking for but it at least indicates that Congress is considering reforms that are Much more expansive than anything else that's really been proposed on this front in recent

3 (21m 4s):
memory. Well, if it goes anywhere, we'll have you back to talk about Italy. Thank you. Sounds good. Thanks. You can find these reporting on the Democrats plan for police at vox.com. I'm Sean Rama's firm. Its today explain and one more thing before we go. Remember the island of explains that magical plays were kids got answers to their coronavirus questions a few weeks ago in our show. We're working on more stuff for kids this summer kind of like today explained summer camp, but we want to hear from people who might be running real summer camps out there or working Summer Schools or libraries remotely or from six feet away this summer.

3 (21m 52s):
If you're working with groups of kids around 2nd to 6th grade this summer and want to help us make some stuff for even more kids that age get in touch. Send us an email at today explained at vox.com. Again, it's today explained all one word at vox.com. Thank you.