1 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from the quip electric toothbrush in particular the smart electric toothbrush. There's an app now and it connects to the quip brush that you use to brush your teeth via Bluetooth and and then everyone knows how well you're brushing and you can earn points for brushing every day and then redeem them for free products and gift cards and discounts, you know, where to find out more get quipped.com / explain. That's G ET Q UI p.com / explained

3 (32s):
20:26 fight when you explain

1 (38s):
way back in January 2020 when the world was worried about those wildfires in Australia or whether we're going to go to war with Iran or how President Trump's impeachment would shake out it was prevailing wisdom. The Democrats had little to no chance of taking the senate in 2020, but one pandemic and a crippled economy later. It's not too sure thing. No, I mean I think you know if you had asked somebody maybe last summer they would have said that Republicans were much more likely to retain control of the Senate but there are a number of things that have changed since then and right now the race for the Senate is looking very competitive Ellen Nelson has been writing about this very subject for Vox and it's wicked important because if Biden wins the presidency and has the house and the senate in tow he could really shake things up in the United.

1 (1m 31s):
So on today's show we're going to talk about how Democrats could flip the Senate and on tomorrow's show. We're going to talk about what Biden would do with majorities in the house and the Senate and we're going to start with the Senate right now. There are 23 Republican Senate seats and 12 Democratic Senate seats. But in those numbers, you can kind of segment those into seats that are safe and then seats that are more competitive. So the key numbers that you really need to know is Is right now there are 10 Republican Senate seats that cook political report rates as either toss-up or lean Republican compared to just two Democratic seats with the same ratings.

1 (2m 11s):
And only one of those Democratic seats. Alabama is seen as you know, truly flippable for Republicans. Okay? Well, we'll talk about Alabama in a bit. But let's first focus on these seats that Republicans could very potentially lose where they there are four four states known as The Core. Are the core for the core for that sounds fun of them heard that before when you talk to political operatives you pick up on weird rimy lingo. It sounds like it should be like a massive rock band from Seattle,

3 (2m 55s):
Colorado, Arizona, Main and, North Carolina. Well, it's go through and dig a Little Deeper starting with main

1 (3m 20s):
that's Susan Collins seat and she catches a lot of heat, right? Yeah. So Susan Collins has been in office for a really long

3 (3m 29s):
time our distinguished colleague the senior Entered from main cast her 7000 roll call vote.

1 (3m 36s):
She's you know high ranking on the Senate Appropriations Committee, which is a pretty powerful committee that decides what money gets appropriated and Collins has always been seen as somebody who can work with Democrats and somebody who traditionally bucked her party when when she didn't necessarily think that she wanted to go along with what Republican leadership was saying unyielding it here and stew and extreme position. It's easy. It is compromised good faith and the hard work of bringing people together that requires determination intellect and courage but I think that that image has kind of changed in the Trump era and that's because she voted for Gavin.

1 (4m 23s):
I see a lot of hate because she voted for Kavanaugh. Yeah, I mean that is certainly like the thing that has kind of inspired, you know, the most Anti Susan Collins sentiment

3 (4m 31s):
In

1 (4m 31s):
Maine and around the country Senator Susan Collins talk about a 180. She won her last re-election with almost 70 percent of the vote. Now. She is

3 (4m 39s):
ranked as the country's most

1 (4m 41s):
disliked senator in a new poll, but there are other things too. I mean she she voted for the GOP tax bill back in 2017. She voted to acquit President Trump during his impeachment trial in the Senate one area where she had actually Buck Republicans early on incomes presidency. Was Voting against the Affordable Care Act. repeal legislation that that would have been no done away with the ACA that was sort of Susan Collins like last big stand against her party since then a lot of folks have been looking to see if she's going to vote against the interest of Republican leadership in the Senate and the interest of President Donald Trump, but in the case of some of these swing States and you know main especially there are also a lot of people who hate Trump in the State and Main is kind of segmented into The more conservative northern part of the state which Susan Collins is from and then the more liberal southern part of the state where Portland Maine is located.

1 (5m 39s):
So she's walking this fine line where she hasn't actually come out and said whether she's going to support Trump or even vote for him in the 2020 election, but she also isn't really, you know, speaking out against him a lot. If you like people may have heard or caught up with the fact that main is kind of up for grabs and Susan Collins. Next term is is in question. But what's up in North Carolina? I feel like people probably haven't heard as much about the race there. Yeah, I mean that's kind of a similar Dynamic although definitely more of a competitive kind of Swing year State North Carolina. It's always sort of traditionally been Republican senator Thom Tillis a republican is up for re-election

3 (6m 24s):
there. I know that you all and North Carolinians want elected officials that are going to go to Washington and get something. And fulfill their promises and you all know that we're going to continue the tradition that we've done here in North Carolina. We're going to go there and expect more out of our leaders and we're going to fulfill our promises. We're going to make this country great again, but North Carolina is pretty purple. There are more

1 (6m 47s):
Democrats moving in there, you know, like a lot of other places in the country. There are suburbs outside, you know cities like Charlotte other big cities in North Carolina that are just getting more diverse and you know trending a little It more blue the Democrat running there is Cal Cunningham. You know, he's been a state politician in North Carolina for a while and he's pretty moderate but he's basically running on a message of Medicaid expansion

3 (7m 14s):
here in North Carolina. We really need to use one of the tools in the Affordable Care Act toolbox and expand Medicaid to some 600,000 of our people that don't have access to care today in part because of a law that Tom tell us himself said he was proud to have the speaker of the State House

1 (7m 33s):
tell us actually used to lead the North Carolina State Legislature before he became a senator and he actually had a pretty pivotal role in rejecting Medicaid expansion when he was a state politician and he also was part of a bill that kind of constrained North Carolina's unemployment benefits system and made it so fewer people could get benefits which obviously is a pretty big issue now amid, the coronavirus crisis and so many people trying to get on employment benefits and moving all the way across the country to Arizona. This race might have some names of people are familiar with right. Yeah. So the two candidates that are running in Arizona. So on the Republican side, we have Senator Martha McSally, look, I don't play games with usual politics.

1 (8m 17s):
I don't campaign one way and then vote another I don't pretend that avoiding. The problem is the same as solving a problem. I don't introduce legislation and Pat myself on the back as if I've actually solve the issue I maintain mission. Focus she ran in 2018 and lost to Democrat. Kyrsten Sinema and then she was appointed by the state's Republican Governor when former longtime Senator John McCain died to fill McCain spot and then the Democrat who's running against McSally is astronaut Mark Kelly, who is the husband of former US congresswoman Gabby Giffords who a lot of people know she was the victim of a gun attack many years ago survived.

1 (9m 1s):
And has now become a very vocal advocate for gun control laws and is I mean is Kelly all but a shoo-in to win? He's got a pretty remarkable story being an astronaut who's also married to Gabby Giffords. Yeah. Yeah. I mean Kelly I think is is a good fit for the state. He has a lot of name recognition. His story is definitely

3 (9m 20s):
inspiring, you know, seeing that Sunrise from space for the very first time. It is incredible. You know, it's comes pretty obvious pretty early when you get into space that we're all kind of in this together.

1 (9m 37s):
And he's proved himself to be very good at fundraising. He has pulled in a ton of money throughout the race. He's up on television everywhere. I think most polls throughout the summer have shown him, you know double digits ahead of McSally, which is a pretty big deal considering that Arizona, you know up until a few years ago was kind of seen as a safe Republican state but is again, you know, one of those States that's diversifying pretty rapidly and how does Arizona compared to It was State. We I think more uniformly think of as purple. Yeah, I mean, I would say that Arizona is considered to be more conservative than Colorado for sure and so in Colorado, there's the incumbent Cory Gardner.

3 (10m 21s):
Mr. President. You've done so much good for Colorado as a result of your work. The Bureau of Land Management is now headquartered in the great state of Colorado who is a

1 (10m 32s):
freshman Republican. It's his first re-election since he won in 2014, and he He's going up against former Democratic governor of Colorado. John

3 (10m 41s):
Hickenlooper. The scent doesn't attract me at this point just doesn't attract me.

1 (10m 44s):
Oh you wanted to be president, right? Yeah, he briefly ran for president like a few other campus Senate candidates this year. So Hickenlooper is, you know seen as a fairly moderate guy pretty affable and well-liked certainly in Colorado given his tenure as governor, and I think that the biggest question here for Gardner is whether there are enough Republicans and moderate Republicans left to win re-election. Essentially. I mean Gardner one in 2014, which was a year where Republicans swept a bunch of races. It was a really good midterm year for Republicans.

1 (11m 26s):
But even then that was a tight race, he's known as as being you know, pretty Savvy politician but since 2014, I think that Colorado has moved even further left. And you know, it's just a really tough electoral year for him given the Dynamics with Trump trump is not well liked in Colorado. And so it's just fundamentally a really tough race for Gardner. Okay. So those are the four states where Republicans really might stand to lose something but you mentioned there was Alabama where Democrats could lose something to write. What's up in Alabama? That's Doug Jones territory. Yes, that is right now Doug Jones

3 (12m 5s):
territory. Just around the state of Alabama. But we have shown the country the way that we can be unified

1 (12m 14s):
like the fact that we're even talking about, you know a democratic incumbent from Alabama in 2020 is like kind of crazy right quite this is a very Southern State. It's a very Trump friendly State and yeah, Doug Jones won a special election in 2017 against Roy Moore who was you know, an incredibly flawed candidate who was Accused of pedophilia in the middle of the race. It's interesting. When you talk to folks on Jones's campaign who were involved in the 2017 race. They are very adamant in saying that they felt like the race was really close even before the revelations about more came out.

1 (12m 55s):
But this time, you know Jones doesn't have Roy Moore to run against he's running against Republican Tommy tuberville, who is a former football coach at Auburn University in

3 (13m 5s):
Alabama Doug Jones. Is Alabama you don't work for your State and Alabama? You don't work for the United States of America. You spend the first three years trying to impeach the best president we've ever had and he voted to impeach him. So football Alabama might be

1 (13m 20s):
tough. So I recently interviewed Doug Jones and you know, he and his campaign know that they are The Underdogs here, even though he's the incumbent and Jones is going to really run on his record of being a bipartisan Senator, even though he has you know, Aiken some democratic party line votes on things like voting against Kavanaugh for the Supreme Court and he hasn't really, you know, tried to make himself a conservative Southern Democrat,

3 (13m 49s):
but he thinks that tuberville is certainly maybe

1 (13m 52s):
not as vulnerable as more is but he

3 (13m 55s):
also, you know feels that tuberville and Alabama Republicans maybe aren't taking his campaign seriously enough

1 (14m 1s):
Republicans and Democrats alike

3 (14m 3s):
think that he is one of the most endangered senators In 2020, but his campaign is pretty Scrappy and I am interested to see you know, if they can pull off something that everybody said they couldn't pull off in 2017 and now is saying they can't pull off in 2020.

1 (14m 38s):
More with Ella in a minute support for the charity comes from quips new smart electric toothbrush for all the people out there who have been like hmm. How could brushing my teeth be more fun? Hmm. How could I share even more of my data with the with the tech world? This thing is for you. They've got this Bluetooth hook up so that your toothbrush is telling your telephone how well your brush? In your teeth and then your telephone can give you tips and coaching to turn you into an elite toothbrush ER because maybe you got that bachelor's degree or that master's degree. But are you an elite toothbrush?

1 (15m 20s):
ER also you can earn points for daily brushing and bonus points for acing occasional challenges. No, I am not joking. You can find out more right now at get quit.com explained and you can get your first eels for free again at GE T Q UI p.com

3 (15m 42s):
explained Google's free tools are designed to help support millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working with Google tools small businesses are staying connected to their customers by updating their business hours switching to curbside pickup activating online booking and more and if you want to support them, there are ways to help whether you're searching for restaurants salons bookstores Jim's boutiques or any other business near you show your support by ordering takeout, right? Review buying a gift card or making a donation all With a Little Help from Google.

3 (16m 26s):
2020 2022

1 (16m 33s):
okay. Hello from talking to you about the four races where Republican seats are most up for grabs. It sounds like there's a lot of different state by state variables at play. But how much does the bigger race President Trump play into those races? It's a really big deal. I mean, I think that the presidential election is is really going to have an effect on Senate races. I mean I've talked to a lot of pollsters and political operatives in both parties and a lot of people have said to me that voters are just less likely these days to split their tickets. So, you know voting for a presidential candidate of one party and then voting for a Senate candidate of a different party more people just kind of vote straight down the ballot and yeah, you're definitely seeing the effects of trump in what is making some of these Senate races more competitive, you know even in States, It's like Montana that Trump won by 20 points in 2016.

1 (17m 30s):
His approval rating has gone down since then and there are things that have happened since like, you know Trump's Postmaster General Lewis to Joy cutting down Postal Service processing and and you know slowing down the delivery of mail which has impacted folks in rural Montana from getting things like their prescriptions and and their mail and obviously their mail in ballots. So it's not even just coronavirus in the economy. There are now Like enough Trump tangential scandals that Democrats can point to in a bunch of different states to make the argument not only against him as the president but also to make the argument against the Republican Senators that have defended him this far.

1 (18m 11s):
So how much does that change the Democrats strategy in States like Montana or Maine or North Carolina or Colorado or Arizona? I mean they put the house in 2018 is the strategy similar or is it you know, very Rona Economy based now, I think that they're definitely keeping a lot of elements of their 2018 strategy and that was to talk about health care all the time

3 (18m 36s):
Barack Obama today driving home. The Democrats closing message Healthcare is on the ballot. You vote you might Save a Life

1 (18m 44s):
horse Joe Biden Sunday.

3 (18m 46s):
They oppose mandated insurance companies cover pre-existing

1 (18m 50s):
conditions. It's Nancy Pelosi's final marching orders in a letter to house Democrats today writing Healthcare is the key. Actor in voters decisions, but of course we are now in a pandemic that has killed over 200,000 Americans and left Millions unemployed. And for many people, you know who have lost their jobs have also lost their insurance that came with that job. So I think that the healthcare argument is as Salient as ever if not more. So, you know, you see a lot of Democrats making arguments in states that haven't expanded medicaid that they should expand the social safety net for people who need the help. and I think that you know coronavirus and Healthcare in the economy kind of all fit pretty well together in this package of issues that Democrats are really choosing to focus on and you know on that note we did this episode recently on ventilation in which we talked about how the fact that maybe one-sixth of Americans may not return to their Office Buildings might mean that we might see this dramatic reshuffling and acceleration of Shifting demographics throughout the People leaving cities and moving to more rural Southern States.

1 (20m 1s):
How much is the shifting demography of this country going to be a big factor here in this 2020 race. I mean, it's huge. I mean, I was talking to a republican pollster today and I asked him about Georgia and the fact that you know, the incumbent Republican senator David Perdue is is in a pretty tight race that really wasn't on anybody's radar half a year ago, and he Basically said, you know, it's kind of crazy that we're sitting here talking about a competitive race in Georgia. And he just said that that tells you about the impact of demographic change on American politics and you know, that means that we're talking about a lot of black voters that are certainly not just in cities like Atlanta Georgia, but also in the suburbs or Latino voters or Asian-American voters when we talk about the suburbs, I feel like usually the image that comes To mind is white people in the suburbs, but I feel like that's certainly the people that Trump is really trying to appeal to but American suburbs don't look like they used to back in 1960s.

1 (21m 8s):
They look a lot more reflective of the country as a whole and yeah, this is the reason that we're talking about, Georgia and Arizona and even maybe Texas although I would argue Texas has more of a reach as competitive Battleground Senate seats in 2020, and I think we're all familiar with what It looks like they have a Democratic president and at least partially controlled Republican Congress that's butting heads with said president. But what could this potentially look like if say Joe Biden wins the presidency and has the house and has the Senate Democrats would have a pretty unique opportunity to pass things that they have been wanting to get done for 4 years Shoring up the Affordable Care Act and potentially.

3 (21m 56s):
Passing a public

1 (21m 57s):
option. I think that the consensus in Washington DC is that there probably needs to be more covid relief getting past and as we've seen the last few months talks between Democrats and Republicans on Capitol Hill haven't really gone anywhere and if Democrats had total control of the White House in the Senate, you know, it wouldn't be a total Breeze. You still have, you know the minorities to deal with and you obviously have different factions in your party and people have different ideological Stripes that you have to please. Please but yeah, I mean, I think that Biden is wanting to put forward a pretty bold agenda for his presidency. It keeps getting described as you know a new deal agenda.

1 (22m 38s):
There are really historic problems that the country is facing that the Democrats want to tackle in big ways including Healthcare and climate change and the covid pandemic and it certainly wouldn't be you know a breeze but compared to the total loggerheads that we've seen. Between Republicans and Democrats over the past decade even it would be a lot different. Hello Nelson covers politics for Vox. I'm Sean Rama's Brougham. This is today explained and on tomorrow's show. I'll speak with our colleague Dylan Matthews about what exactly Joe Biden would do with Democratic majorities in the House and Senate until then.

3 (23m 27s):
Here's the core four.

1 (24m 18s):
Consumers for safe CBD wants to know what's in your CBD in a recent report to Congress the FDA found that a sampling of CBD products they tested. Were mislabeled some of them contains more than 120 percent of the CBD amount listed ends nearly 20 products contained th see the ingredient that can cause psychoactive effects as well consumers for safe. CBD is calling on the FDA to regulate the CBD Market to protect consumers from potential harms posed by untested products though. The FDA has issued warnings. This is not deterred some vendors for making sweeping Health claims about their products ability to treat.

1 (24m 59s):
Wide range of serious medical conditions remember just because CBD products are on grocery store shelves does not mean they're risk-free be smart and stay healthy learn more about consumers for safe CBD at for safe CBD dot-org. That's the number for sa Fe CBD dot o-- r-- g-- hi, I'm Avery troubleman, and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media. Podcast Network every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style self culture and Power in our first episode.

1 (25m 42s):
We're looking at what it means to be optimistic in 2020.

3 (25m 47s):
You can listen And subscribe to the

1 (25m 48s):
cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen.