1 (4s):
It's today explained. I'm Sean Rama's from back from quite possibly the worst time vacation in the history of travel, but it seemed like a good idea to weeks ago. And that's the thing about this novel coronavirus crisis. We're all in so much changes so fast on Sunday. The CDC said no Gatherings over 50 people on Monday President Trump reduced that number to 10 as he warned that this outbreak could extend well into the summer, yesterday, Ohio. Governor said the state would postpone today's primary then an Ohio judge said no dice. Then the governor said he'd ignore the judge never has the news more needed to be explained. So we are going to up our game from today onward.

1 (44s):
We're gonna open every episode of today explained with an update on all the latest coronavirus news. After that. We'll take a quick breather and get on with the Regular Show, which will most likely also be about covet 19 and you can help us tell us. Us what questions you have email us where today explained at vox.com tweet at us. We're at today underscore explained. I'm a traumas firm and thank you for listening. Stay safe and stay smart during this crisis. All right, let's do this. The president held a White House briefing today. He offered some tweaks to Medicare and pledged one trillion dollars of stimulus including some Andrew Yang style Ubi sending Americans checks in the mail in the next few weeks.

1 (1m 34s):
A lot of that still needs to be ironed out. There's now something like a hundred and eighty thousand known cases of Kovac 19 globally and the United States today passed the 5,000 case marker. Officially New York State confirmed over 400 new. Is in the last 24 hours bring its confirmed cases to around 1500. That's the highest in the United States in any state Governor. Andrew Cuomo has said the peak is still likely 45 days away in New York and he continues to call on the federal government to ramp up military aid to dramatically expand New York State's Health Care infrastructure or talking hospital beds ICU beds.

1 (2m 14s):
As of Tuesday afternoon, 91 people have died in the United States as a result of covet 19 the country is ramping up efforts to restrict movement six counties in the San Francisco Bay Area announced a shelter at home order on Monday. Canada has shut its border with very few exceptions including Americans and the European commission is considering a 30-day ban on all non-essential travel and then there's the presidential race back here in the United States Ohio postponed, but Arizona, Florida and Illinois are still voting today. The outbreak might not be a huge Factor. As millions of people have already cast their ballots in Arizona and Florida more on that tomorrow for now on with the show.

2 (3m 6s):
T-Mobile's the first and only Wireless company to offer Nationwide 5G covering over 200 million Americans and Counting. That's right. It's not just five genes select parts of Select cities T-Mobile Nationwide 5G covers over 5,000 cities and towns and that's just the beginning indoor/outdoor. No signal goes farther or is more reliable than T-Mobile's 5G find out more about the first largest and only Nationwide 5G Network at TD. Mobile.com that's T Dash mobile.com capable device required coverage not available in some areas downlink. Only some uses may require certain plan or feature CT - mobile.com.

1 (3m 47s):
For the first year or so of our show we did a lot of episodes about the firings The Replacements the vacancies in the Trump Administration. We use the word unprecedented a lot and whenever we do these episodes people like Ezra Klein or Matthew yglesias would say look the president hasn't really been tested yet. Imagine how this would all work in a crisis. Now the crisis is here millions of people. Are losing their jobs. The economy is in a tailspin people are dying. I asked Matthew Iglesias whether President Trump is capable of leading the country out of this crisis and what that might look like, but we started with the job he's done so far.

3 (4m 31s):
It's not great. Right. I mean we have seen over the years lots of examples of the Trump Administration being disorganized being dishonest being inaccurate having difficulty collecting information from um, well qualified experts but it hasn't really mattered and Incredibly concrete tangible ways outside of this specific situation with hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico, but now we have a honest-to-god national crisis a genuinely very difficult situation that you know, any presidency would struggle with and you see that the Trump Administration is really flailing they are failing to do the sort of basic element of communicating in a clear and consistent way what's going on and it's just

1 (5m 15s):
Only very scary before we get into all the details of how this Administration has handled the novel coronavirus this year. Let's just talk about steps that were taken before. This was even on anyone's radar and I'm talking specifically about something we've mentioned on the show before which is that there was this pandemic group set up within the National Security Council during the Obama Administration and this Administration disbanded that

2 (5m 41s):
when you say me I didn't do it. We have a group of people I could and I could ask perhaps it may have been stray sheep, but I could perhaps ask Tony about that because I don't know anything about it.

3 (5m 52s):
Yeah, they disbanded it. This was during John Bolton's tenure as National Security adviser. He said he wanted to quote unquote streamline the process he sort of dismissed this group and it's part of a larger pattern that we've seen which is the Trump Administration repeatedly proposed very large cuts to the Centers for Disease Control including you know in their most recent budget. Shin which was just last month and ideologically temperamentally they did not believe that pandemic preparedness was an important topic that it didn't deserve that kind of high-level coordination effort that the agencies involved with it didn't deserve a lot of money and then it wasn't an important kind of thing to do and you seen that same mentality sort of play out over the course of February and March and then Trump has not had the flexibility to Change quickly, even when it became clear that you know, this really was an important

1 (6m 49s):
subject. So once the novel coronavirus is on the administration's radar. Let's say January early February. What exactly does the Trump Administration to do they ramp up the CDC do they ramp up the NIH? Do they get everyone moving or

3 (7m 4s):
what? What so Trump does what he thinks is taking it seriously, and that's he moves relatively quickly to restrict travel from

1 (7m 12s):
China. The Trump Administration says it will now bar for Nationals entering the United States if they've been here to China in the 14 days before they arrived

3 (7m 25s):
because he you know, has it in his head that this is a foreign problem. He's really big on being tough on borders at the same time the travel restrictions, you know, they had exemptions Americans. For example, we're not impacted by it and at that point he seems to forget about right he has incredible levels of confidence. In border control, so he keeps saying to people in

2 (7m 47s):
interviews we have it. So well under control. I mean view this the same as the flu because of all we've done the risk to the American people remains very

3 (7m 56s):
low, and then internally, he just doesn't do anything. So we look back and we say maybe

1 (8m 2s):
these restrictions were a good idea. Maybe he bought us some time before the

3 (8m 5s):
virus came to the United States in a big way. But when you buy time the question is, what do you do with that time and Trump did not get tests up and He didn't stockpile necessary medical supplies. He didn't develop a sort of Plan B in case containment failed and then he was slow to acknowledge that containment of the virus had in fact failed because he was so committed to the idea that he was this genius and his travel restrictions on China had solved the

1 (8m 32s):
problem and this is back in we're talking January early February the whole country's focused on Iowa and New Hampshire. Are you saying that these were moments that we could have been taking critical steps to prepare the country. Three for this virus hitting the United States. Yeah. I mean this could have been a good time for Trump to say look. I'm really concerned about this virus and we didn't know

3 (8m 55s):
that much about the underlying science of the virus and it would have been a good time to you know, send up some flares right say have

1 (9m 2s):
there been a pandemic preparedness

3 (9m 4s):
team at the National Security Council you could have asked them, you know. Hey, man, can you update me on what's going on here even without it. You can scramble the Jets. He could have gotten in touch with health officials personally he Told his cabinet. I want everybody to check in on

1 (9m 17s):
this. What can we do

3 (9m 18s):
but he didn't do anything at all, you know, and he also doesn't like to be told bad news, right when people would come to him and say mr. President whether you think this border control measures are a good idea or not. They're not foolproof. We really need to keep thinking about this instead. He kind of declared Victory and he moved on until it was much too late.

1 (9m 38s):
We've covered on the show already this sort of bungling of testing at the CDC that the CDC refused test from the who they wanted to do their own those tests didn't work and all of this has led us to this position. We're in now where we just don't have enough tests for the entire country. How much responsibility does Donald Trump bear in this testing situation or is there is there more responsibility on the shoulders of the CDC and the NIH for not doing a better job in that regard and for not Maybe making the public more aware. How much are these autonomous organizations or how much is this all linked back to the administration?

3 (10m 15s):
There have been a lot of articles on vox.com and elsewhere warning that the Obama Administration left the country in adequately prepared for a pandemic and that the Trump Administration has moved us backwards instead of building on the work that had been done after a balla Trump started rolling that work back and people have been saying for years that we are not ready for this kind of thing and he Glsen and that is a hundred percent his fault.

2 (10m 41s):
And what I've done is I'm going to be announcing exactly right now that I'm going to be putting our vice president Mike Pence in charge

1 (10m 50s):
come late, February. Donald Trump does put Mike Pence in charge of this whole situation. Does that help? Does that hurt? I mean, I think

3 (10m 58s):
it's an example of how behind the curve the Administration has been people have been saying all throughout the month of February. You need to appoint some kind of a Corona viruses are some kind of high level of She'll who's in charge of coordinating all of this and the presumption of that is that you need to do coordination. But also that the president personally can't be all coronavirus all the time. So Pence comes in and it was a good idea to put him in charge. I mean if you look at Mike Pence's press conferences, they are much more sort of organized and calm and professional than the ones Trump does

2 (11m 31s):
my presence here today and working with you each and every day in the days ahead. I hope gives evidence of the prior. Already the president's placed on this work. Yes, please go ahead and istration said that they had tested a million people at this point. You've asked them how they did with the swine flu is a disaster respect you next

3 (11m 49s):
place, but he had resisted this for weeks and we've just been consistently two weeks or so behind the curve ever since late February and Pence being put in charge like that and then seemingly sideline more recently is an example,

1 (12m 5s):
of course last week. We got the first Prime Time presidential address from the Oval Office at the desk all the bells and whistles.

2 (12m 14s):
We will be suspending all travel from Europe to the United States for the next 30

1 (12m 19s):
days and it seemed to just confuse more than it helped. We covered it on the show. But now that some of the things that Trump announced have been implemented like this European travel ban. What's the Fallout?

3 (12m 32s):
Well, you know the European travel ban, it looks like it's been a kind of an implementation disaster. I completely first and why he wanted to restrict travel from Europe, but then they've had Americans returning from Europe trapped in these extremely long screening lines in a situation where people are just in a position to infect each other even night chaos at Chicago's O'Hare Airport as passengers return home from Europe thousands of Travelers left standing in a crowd for hours shoulder to shoulder. This is exactly what Americans are being told

2 (13m 4s):
to avoid particular look at some of this video. We know that very long lines and long Wait times hit at least three of the 13 airports screening passengers returning from Europe Saturday

3 (13m 13s):
night. And then we don't have adequate testing to really monitor everybody who's coming back to do any kind of a case tracing and so it's likely that this effort to stem an influx of outside infected people will have actually made the problem worse. Meanwhile making that the epicenter of his Prime Time address. It was just a second example of trump being so hung up on Border controls and external. A threat that he's not addressing the fact that we have substantial Community spread inside the United States of

1 (13m 44s):
America since that Oval Office address. This has become a much Graver situation in the United States from national sports leagues canceling and postponing to schools being shut down to cities being shut down to people in the service industry across the country losing jobs. It's hurting a lot of people right now in a way that it wasn't even just a week ago. How has the president's messaging changed? That Oval Office address.

3 (14m 10s):
Well, you know, we didn't change immediately for several days through the past weekend. He continued to sort of downplay the coronavirus a assure us that it was going to wash away really soon and mostly seem focused on trying to talk up the stock market that really changed Monday

1 (14m 26s):
afternoon. The president gave a press conference where for the first

3 (14m 31s):
time he really said like he doesn't know how long this is gonna last. It's a serious problem. He got behind CDC guidance telling people to avoid Gatherings of more than 10 people and to me most significantly wall. He acknowledged for the first time that the reason the stock market is down is that the situation is actually quite grave and it will go back up. He said when we resolve the coronavirus problem which you know, hopefully is true, but it's wise And President Trump while not handling the situation perfectly by any means is now finally taking it seriously seeing this as a big problem. He's calling on people to avoid gathering in large groups. He's calling for the cancellation of events.

3 (15m 12s):
He's telling people they need to stay away from bars and restaurants. And that means he's acknowledging that these Public Health measures are going to be a big

1 (15m 20s):
problem for the national economy. That's going to require some kind of

3 (15m 24s):
large-scale solution, but it's not something we can

1 (15m 27s):
avoid. More with Matthew after the break on today explained. If you're sitting at home right now in quarantine looking for something to do maybe you're going to launch a website. If you do launch a website, you're going to need a domain and name.com wants to help you out name.com is built by experts for experts with features like a DNS templates Bulk Management actions extra security features and a brand-new a pi named.

1 (16m 20s):
Tom is the best place to manage your website projects. Unfortunately, I am not sitting at home with nothing to do. I'm sitting at home trying to make it a daily podcast. So I am not going to look up all of those things right now. But if you are interested, you should look up the DNS templates the Bulk Management actions and the brand new API business. It sounds important name.com offers.com domains for just 899 and for 825 you can transfer in your existing.com domains New Year's. Get free privacy protection and security features just for signing up right now listeners can use the promo code explained at checkout to get 50% off G sweet actions y'all for a full year, you know about G sweet Gmail Google Drive, you know that stuff that's name.com and use expl a indd at checkout name.com.

2 (17m 18s):
Hey while you're listening to this podcast T-Mobile was busy building the largest 5G Network in America. All right, well into it all during this one podcast. They spent years improving their Network to be ready for the future Wireless 5G. Well, the future is here and it's Nationwide. T-Mobile's 5G network is in over 5,000 cities covering more than 200 million Americans. It's 5G service. You can actually use even in places where other signals just get locked like your living room. Umm, or a bank vault. Okay. Well, probably not the last one Now's the Time you get ahead of the 5 g game Why not pick the first largest and only Nationwide 5G Network. Go to tea - mobile.com.

2 (17m 58s):
That's tea - mobile.com capable device required coverage not available in some areas downlink. Only some uses may require certain plan or feature CT - mobile.com

1 (18m 12s):
Matthew that the Trump Administration is finally talking about dramatic measures to shore up the millions of Americans who are already hurting and those who will be hurting as a result of this crisis. There's like Andrew Yang style checks to every American there's apparently a 850 billion dollar stimulus on the way and then there's this much smaller stimulus. They've been talking about for days. Let's start with that small guy because it's going to land at any moment now

2 (18m 37s):
the result More than a dozen phone call negotiations between house Speaker Nancy Pelosi and treasury secretary Steven minuchin.

3 (18m 45s):
This is going to do some real good. There are Provisions in here that are going to sort of beef up the unemployment insurance program. They're going to beef up nutritional assistance program. Those are important measures. They are also doing some extension of paid sick leave, which is something that the politicians involved both from the White House and Nancy Pelosi have talked about a lot but That's actually the area where it looks a little bit threadbare. I mean this is going to deliver some real help to some people but it still leaves the sick leave portion of the American Safety Net pretty patchy and I would just say this scale of this package is not equal to the challenge

1 (19m 27s):
and clearly the Trump Administration knows this isn't enough because it's now as of today offering to do much much more tell me about this 850 billion. Dollar package that they're now talking

3 (19m 40s):
about sure should they're talking about a large-scale package that will be aimed at two things one is kind of industry specific support President Trump in particular has been fired up about trying to help Airlines. He is also in the hotel industry and seems very open to the hotel Industries argument that they need financial support casinos and cruise ship companies also seem to be in the mix there. It's not entirely clear what those kinds of bailouts. Or financial support might look like but this is something that you know, I know I've spoken to Democrats on the hill. They have concerns about this idea. But also some recognition that it has Merit. I think we're going to see a lot of discussion of this.

3 (20m 21s):
Hopefully some kind of, you know, reasonable compromise. The other piece is trying to get money into people's hands. The president had been talking about payroll tax cuts for a long time. He hasn't disavowed that but today he and treasury secretary minuchin both indicated that they were Open to the idea of simply giving cash to individual

2 (20m 42s):
Americans the payroll tax holiday would get people money over the next six to eight months. We're looking at sending checks to Americans immediately and what we've heard from hardworking Americans many companies have now shut down whether it's bars or restaurants Americans need cash now and the president wants to get cash now and I mean now in the next two weeks, I will be previewing that with the Republicans there some numbers out there. Are they may be a little bit bigger than what's in the process.

3 (21m 11s):
That's an idea that Jason Furman who was the chief Economist and the Obama Administration has been very vocally championing and this idea has been adopted by Senator Mitt Romney now potentially by the Trump Administration some Democrats in Congress as well and we'll have to see if it gains momentum

1 (21m 29s):
is this like Andrew Yang style Universal basic income or is it just a

3 (21m 34s):
one-timer? It's not the same as universal basic income. One reason that people who are skeptical of you be I like this idea is precisely because it isn't permanent. Right? So everybody will get these checks. So it gives everyone some help but if you have a job even during this crisis the fact that you're getting a time-limited check is not a good reason to like quit your job and go live off you bi or something like that. So it has appeal to people who are skeptical of Ubi a concern that you know, some people will continue to raise is that That it's not targeted in any way right? Lots of people urgently need financial assistance in this crisis plenty of other people don't really but they'll be getting money to the case for doing it.

3 (22m 20s):
This way is that it's simple it's like fair you can easily explain to people like, why did that guy get a thousand dollars? Well, he got it because everybody's getting yeah, I think this is a good idea. It's not a cure-all for what fixes us since obviously no matter how much you get in a check. You're not going to take a plane. Flight, you know internationally tomorrow at largest segments of the economy are just shut down. So we're going to need to either support Industries or else support some kind of transition out of those Industries, but you know giving everyone some money that that would be nice that would

1 (22m 54s):
help. I guess the trillion dollar question is how's the country going to pay for all this?

3 (22m 59s):
I mean in the short term we can and should pay for it by borrowing money interest rates are very very low. That's how you bolster the economy. You know it. It's going to mean a higher debt level it could mean higher taxes down the road, but I think everybody needs to be really careful here from an economic standpoint. Right? We know that a lot of the economy has shut down for public health reasons. It seems like more is going to have to shut down in the future and it's tempting to think of this as being like a light switch where you know, you can turn it off and then you can flip it back on again, but economic life doesn't work that way, right if millions of people lose their jobs lose their tips lose. Incomes and that stays lost for a number of weeks then even when you turn the economy back on again, they're not going to have any money.

3 (23m 46s):
So they're not gonna be able to buy anything and you're going to see cascading job losses and you could have a sort of stalled out for a really really long time unless we do something proactively to sort of not just help people get through this current crisis which you know will be difficult, but we'll pass that we're going to have to restart things once it's safe from hell. 'The standpoint and that's going to take us Road a big shove of stimulus measures from the government could all of this have been

1 (24m 14s):
avoided if if this country at least were more careful or is it just a case that the way we live now the way are porous borders work that this was coming no matter what

3 (24m 25s):
look at Taiwan and Singapore have closer economic geographical and cultural ties to China than the United States has they have not been unaffected by coronavirus. Nobody has been and nobody could be but they with you no sufficient proactive measures have kept their populations largely safe and are now not shutting down their domestic economies. This is why people say you should have a president who knows what he's doing and we

1 (24m 51s):
don't I guess we'll be talking a lot more about that in the coming weeks and months Matthew. Thank you.

3 (25m 0s):
Thank you.