2 (1s):
Do you have a toothbrush? If not, I have a toothbrush to offer you. It is the quip electric toothbrush. They have a website. It is get quipped.com / explained at that website. You'll find the quip electric toothbrush starts at just $25 and you get your first set of refills for free who else is offering you free toothbrush refills get quipped.com / explained. Mike Bloomberg started as a middle-class kid who had to work his way through college and built a business from a single room to a global entity creating

1 (47s):
Tomer New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg makes it official announcing he is running for

2 (52s):
president. He put his money where his heart

1 (55s):
is Michael Bloomberg would be the richest man ever to run for president and while his wealth could reshape the money landscape. It could also be his biggest liability the 77 year old media Mogul joins 17 other

3 (1m 7s):
Democrats. Hoping to take on President

1 (1m 10s):
Trump. Bloomberg's net worth is fifty two billion dollars that makes him the eighth richest American Mike Bloomberg for president jobs Creator leader Problem Solver. It's going to take all

2 (1m 23s):
three to build back a country. And we Stewart Vox. Why is Michael Bloomberg running for president

3 (1m 33s):
either he has an opening or he's not real happy with the candidates in the race right now. It seemed like he wasn't going to run and now he's changed his mind. What it seems like is going on is that Joe Biden is looking a little bit weaker. He apparently does not like Pete Buddha judge the other sort of moderate front-runner in the race. And so he's entering as a moderate. That a lot of

2 (1m 58s):
money and he's running as a Democrat not as an independent or a republican which he has been at various times in the past.

3 (2m 6s):
Right? I mean he seems to have determined correctly that there's not a real path to the White House as an independent. He mauled a run in 2016 decided against it and then he would have run as an independent but we saw Howard Schultz the former CEO of Starbucks thinking about it earlier this year and kind of back away the two party system. You got to play Within the rules of the game.

2 (2m 32s):
How the actual candidates responded to his candidacy

3 (2m 35s):
Warren has taken a dig basically saying that Michael Bloomberg is making a bet about democracy in

1 (2m 44s):
2020. He doesn't need people.

3 (2m 48s):
He only needs bags and bags of money. Even you have like an Amy Klobuchar kind of looking at this and thinking

1 (2m 54s):
like I think you have to earn votes

2 (2m 57s):
and not by them. I don't think you just Waltz in and say instead of well, I'm good enough to be

1 (3m 3s):
present. Your argument is the other people aren't good

3 (3m 6s):
enough you invited was like, okay let him run in see what he can do. But I think in general there's a sense that a lot of people have been in the race for a long time. He

1 (3m 16s):
Had

3 (3m 16s):
all this time to think about it. Why

2 (3m 18s):
now? Like some of his fellow candidates Bloomberg is in his 70s. He's been around for a very long time. We do know a lot about what he stands for. What is his platform? What is his vision for the United

3 (3m 31s):
States? Well, we know a lot about his past. We really don't know a ton of exactly what he's going to focus on I would sort of assume it's going to be the things that he's focused on throughout his political career and after being mayor of New York City, so climate guns education the environment health things. That so let's talk about a few of those specifically

1 (3m 52s):
guns. What I have asked for and most of my friends who have asked for our background checks. We shouldn't be selling guns to minors to people with psychiatric problems for people with criminal records.

2 (4m 6s):
You know, he doesn't like them. Where does he stand on the environment?

3 (4m 9s):
Michael Bloomberg has been out front on climate change and talking about the importance of addressing it

1 (4m 15s):
the oceans are warming and rising and you see these terrible storms that have killed a lot of people Well and done enormous damage and Florida and Texas and Puerto Rico and the Caribbean. So it's a very serious thing and the science says that things are getting warmer and they will continue to get warmer unless we reduce the amount of greenhouse

3 (4m 33s):
gases. Is he going to back the green new deal as it stands today? We don't know he has sort of that. It might be a little bit too aggressive a little bit too much pie in the sky, but you can expect him to pay a lot of attention to climate and education education. It's one of those areas where you know, he's not Going to be for free college. She's going to talk about it more in a typical moderate way of access to college about technical education things like

2 (4m 58s):
that. And and is it similar on health care where he's going to take a moderate stance?

3 (5m 2s):
Yeah, Michael Bloomberg probably will not be backing Medicare for

2 (5m 6s):
all and of course that sets them apart from Bernie and mourn and he also probably will be set apart in how he funds his campaign.

3 (5m 13s):
Right? So Michael Bloomberg is worth more than 50 billion dollars. He is not asking anyone else. As for money he plans to sell fund his entire Campaign which he appears to mean that he won't be on the debate stage because the Democratic National Committee has made a rule that you had to have a certain amount of donors to get onto the debate stage. He's not taking small donations. So he probably won't be in the

2 (5m 38s):
debates. How do you become the candidate without debating the other candidates?

3 (5m 43s):
I think that is sort of the question a lot of it's going to be ads. So we're going to see a lot of commercials. We're going to see a lot of July ads he will do some campaigning on Monday. He was in Virginia, but mainly it seems to be he's going to be on TV spending 30 million dollars in these first couple of weeks to be in markets like Los Angeles New York. He also is taken out of digital ads on Facebook. So we're going to see if his plan

2 (6m 8s):
works if we're never going to see him on the debate stage alongside these other candidates. I'm kind of curious. How does he shape up next to them

3 (6m 16s):
personality-wise? Well, I think It's going to take a while to figure that out. I think for me one of the strange things about the campaign so far is that if you look at the announcement video that his campaign put out on Sunday. Mike Bloomberg doesn't really appear in

1 (6m 33s):
it. But when New York suffered the terrible tragedy of 9/11, he took charge becoming a three-term mayor who brought

2 (6m 40s):
a city Back From the Ashes and

3 (6m 43s):
he's not doing the typical candidate sits and talks to the camera thing. He's not voicing it they hired someone else to It over so it's going to be a little bit strange. Like how much are we actually going to see Michael Bloomberg? I don't really know

2 (6m 58s):
that campaign ad plays into this self-made billionaire theme. I'm sure we're going to hear more about as the monster progressed for those who aren't aware. How did Michael Bloomberg go from middle class to one of the richest men in the

3 (7m 10s):
world, right? So Bloomberg started out working on Wall Street, and then he was laid off as part of an acquisition in 1981 and took the money. Me that he got from his layoffs and started a company called Bloomberg after himself. And the main way that they have made money is through the Bloomberg terminals. They're basically like these kind of Spacey looking computers that share a lot of financial information you go into any, you know, the floor of Goldman Sachs or a financial publication and you're going to see a Bloomberg terminal that's how he's made a lot of his

2 (7m 44s):
money and at some point he like becomes a media Mogul to or is that part of the same parcel back there?

3 (7m 50s):
Yeah, so it's all sort of part of the same thing that obviously the way a lot of people interact with Bloomberg now is to Bloomberg News and they're going to continue operating now that he's running for president, but they have said they will not investigate him and because they will not investigate him. They also will not investigate any of the other 2020 Democratic candidates. So if you're a reporter of Bloomberg news right now, you're probably wondering what you're going to be working on the next couple

2 (8m 14s):
months. When did you decide that? He's going to become the mayor of New York.

3 (8m 18s):
Well, he ran and won. In 2001. He actually ran as a republican, but he had been a Democrat before then and then he served for three terms. He switched parties from Republican to Independent in 2007. But yeah, he had three terms as mayor

2 (8m 34s):
he changed the term limit so he could serve a third term. Yeah

3 (8m 37s):
that he did.

2 (8m 38s):
What did he accomplish as mayor of New

3 (8m 40s):
York, you know, his record is mixed. You know, he got record low crime, but at the same time one of the things we've been talking about a lot lately is that his administration was a proponent of stop and frisk. Policing and Bloomers stood by this policy for a long time for years. He apologized for it at a black church a week before announcing his White House run. I

1 (8m 60s):
didn't understand that. That's them the full impact that stocks were having on the Black and Latino communities. I now see that we could and should have acted sooner and acted faster to cut the stops. I wish we had I'm sorry that we didn't

3 (9m 18s):
he focused a lot on public health. So he put in place a smoking ban in bars and restaurants, but also a lot of people remember him for trying to ban large sodas in New York, which he was unable to do Michael Bloomberg wants to ban the sale of

1 (9m 34s):
all sugary drinks that are larger than 16 ounces know they can still so 32 ounces of the sugar drink to you but they'd have to put it into containers. What are you Owing we already let you make up a third term as mayor put cameras on every intersection and for some reason picnic tables in the middle of 7th Avenue. This is all we have left.

3 (9m 60s):
He did a lot of real estate development which was good for the business Community, but you could also argue hurt some underdeveloped and poor communities. He took mayoral control of the schools.

2 (10m 12s):
What's he been up to since his third term is Mayor

3 (10m 14s):
ended he's really focused a lot on philanthropy on giving to causes that he cares about so gun control the environment. He made one point eight billion dollar donation to his alma mater Johns Hopkins in 2018. He also launched the Bloomberg Global business Forum like a real fancy meeting of business people and politicians in New York. The clintons used to do a similar event, but they stopped doing it when Hillary Clinton began. And for president and so he sort of took over The Mantel for

2 (10m 46s):
them and speaking of the clintons. You mentioned that he thought about running in 2016. What what made him decide against

3 (10m 53s):
it he in 2016 decided not to run because he worried it would result in a Donald Trump presidency. He wrote an op-ed about it. I was a risk that he did not want to take Trump won.

2 (11m 7s):
Anyway are they friends due to billionaires all hang out same places in New York.

3 (11m 12s):
I don't think that friends anymore. More but they definitely knew each other Mike Bloomberg appeared on The Apprentice twice. Ah, they used to golf together and in 2013. They sort of work together in New York for the Trump organization to help open a golf course in the Bronx so may know one another but they are no longer

2 (11m 36s):
friends. So after like building a golf club together and golfing together and going on reality TV together. What broke these two

1 (11m 44s):
There's

3 (11m 44s):
up. Well, if you see some of the things that Michael Bloomberg said about Donald Trump when he was first running for the White House in 2016, it's pretty easy to see what happened. I don't remember. What are the things. Well Bloomberg spoke at the 2016 Democratic National Convention a

1 (11m 60s):
remember that Grill which career Donald Trump has left behind a well documented record of bankruptcies and thousands of lawsuits and angry stockholders and contractors who feel cheated and illusion customers who feel they've been ripped off Trump says he wants to run the nation like he's running his business God help us. I'm a New Yorker and I know a con when I see one. And so obviously if you're

3 (12m 36s):
coming out and telling everybody that your old friend is dangerous and a demagogue and will ruin the country. You're probably not going to golf together anymore.

2 (12m 50s):
And now there's a chance they could run against each other for the presidency in 2020 billionaire against billionaire. I

3 (12m 57s):
mean, maybe we'll see Bloomberg seems to think he can really just dump all his money and get there. So I guess we're really gonna find out in the next couple months.

1 (13m 7s):
He doesn't have to match it to do. Well, he will not do very well. And if he did I'd be happy there is nobody I'd rather run against then little Michael that I could

2 (13m 18s):
Can I just ask you before we go? Who's the bigger?

3 (13m 20s):
Billionaire Michael Bloomberg has the bigger

2 (13m 23s):
billionaire. But how many billions?

3 (13m 26s):
Well, I guess it depends if you believe Trump has any billions or how many billions he has

2 (13m 34s):
significantly more billions is what you're

3 (13m 35s):
saying. It's many more billions. It's tens more billions.

2 (13m 39s):
Awesome must eat it President Trump.

3 (13m 41s):
I mean, he probably doesn't like it.

2 (13m 50s):
More on Mikey B in a minute. This is today explained. I don't hang out with dentists, but the people Equip to and the people equip would argue that if you asked a dentist, hey dentist, what toothbrush should I get the dentist wouldn't say Oh by X toothbrush by why toothbrush, they'd say it's not the toothbrush that matters.

2 (14m 34s):
It's how you brush and quit would argue that that's an argument for the quit. I got it right in front of me. They would say because quip has these Sensitive vibrations and a built-in timer, they will guide gentle brushing for the dentist recommended two minutes. It's almost like the quip electric toothbrush is the toothbrush for dummies and I'm not calling you a dummy or anyone who uses the clip of dummy I'm saying it makes your life a little easy support the show start brushing better get clipped dot-coms. I should explain G ET Q UI p.com explain the clip starts at just $25 in your first set of refills is free.

2 (15m 21s):
Okay, we're going to talk about a billionaire and what it means sure mrs. Rich Michael Bloomberg. Eighth richest man in the world, maybe just in the country. Yeah, that's pretty good though. Yeah, I normally look this stuff up by going to the Bloomberg billionaires index. But because Bloomberg News does not cover Michael Bloomberg. He is omitted from the Bloomberg billionaires index even from their list. Yes. So there's just like a it's like the 13th floor on a tall building. It means that the whole list is inaccurate. Yes, the order for almost everyone is off by one but they've decided that's more ethical. I don't get it that Duke laces you host the weeds podcast can a billionaire by the presidency?

2 (16m 5s):
Probably not. Okay good that says something for our democracy right? Look it so television advertising. It does work. Yeah. Look what game is it does matter but we have lots of examples of the best funded candidate not winning presidential primaries this kind of money that Michael Bloomberg can bring to the race. It's a big deal, but there's no reason to think it's going to be dispositive or A decisive and he has a lot of problems frankly as a candidate. Let's talk about those. You know, it starts with the fact that like Michael Bloomberg's relationship to the Democratic party is kind of fraud. Yeah ran for mayor of New York as a republican in 2001, you know, he doesn't have deep ties to the Democratic party despite his recent generosity.

2 (16m 48s):
And he also as mayor of New York had a very poor relationship with the city's Black and Latino voters, right which is a really important factor in Democratic presidential primaries that was a discussion featured prominently in the last debate. Yeah. I mean it was and he I guess you would shorthand this by saying that he was a proponent of the nypd's stop-and-frisk policies and more broadly, you know, when he ran he won his elections with a coalition of sort of moderate Rich Democrats and actual honest-to-god Republicans. Like if you look if you look at the precincts of New York City that voted for Donald Trump those precincts. Voted really heavily for Michael Bloomberg, right?

2 (17m 29s):
And that's a coalition that's not available in a Democratic primary up Republicans a dome vote in the Democratic primary and be will vote for Trump in the general election. But Bloomberg is seen in part as Rudy Giuliani successor as an ally of the police department and the police unions who would have their backs relative to civil rights and civil liberties Advocates that was integral to his political Coalition there, but it becomes a reputation he carries Word into the Democratic primary. It's going to make it very hard for him to sort of poached. Joe Biden's African-American Latino base. How does a Democrat than who is mostly a Democrat by default by opportunity win over the base?

2 (18m 13s):
I mean he obviously has a plan to dump a whole lot of money on TV ads a lot of money. I mean if you think about Bloomberg sort of progressive cred, right? It's would come from a focus on gun control and a focus on climate change. Those are two issues. He's been very associated with on the Progressive side, but the sorts of people who are most interested in climate changes. Issue tend to be young and very left wing and really in the core Bernie Sanders base, right so I can sit here and like spell it out for you, but it doesn't look to me like Coalition math that works. It's the same reason Inslee had trouble. I heard a lot of nice things said about Jay Inslee from people who are voting for Bernie Sanders, right?

2 (18m 56s):
Like they appreciated the idea. Yeah, the climate Focus campaign, but they're not really shopping for other candidates and you see that right the sudden. Rise movement people the green New Deal people. Yeah, they are not like agitating for Michael Bloomberg to get in there. It'll be interesting to see a friend of mine who works in Democratic Party politics on the hill. I mean, he called it billionaire identity politics and I think that's not that's not so far from the mark and your friend is talking about how there are now multiple billionaires running for president. And I think the fact that there are people like Michael Bloomberg like Tom steyer but others who are a little less political but who are Left of center and their political views and are hurt personally by the anti billionaire rhetoric of Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren.

1 (19m 46s):
We cannot afford a billionaire class whose greed and Corruption has been at war with the Working Families of this country for 45 years

2 (19m 56s):
not even just like they're threatened in a practical sense because you know, these things won't pass Congress, but but it makes them mad that there is this anti billionaire discourse. Happening and they don't see Joe Biden as kind of reflecting the sort of vibrant effective politics that they want to have and they are excited about the idea of Michael Bloomberg coming in to be like it's okay to be a billionaire. Is it possible that the anti billionaire sentiment on the left could fire up the base behind Elizabeth Warren and and Bernie Sanders right now? I mean, that's definitely how they are playing it right that you know, it's Need to vote for me.

2 (20m 36s):
You need to show that our democracy can't be bought. It's a good kind of line for them. And I mean, I think I think the Specter of somebody coming in and trying to you know, say like he's not even going to participate in the debates. He's not going to do retail politics and iron New Hampshire. He's going to count on big spending in the larger states that come next to make himself like the default alternative that people need to Rally to after a chaotic couple early primaries, you know, it rubs a lot of People the wrong way, it's not how we like to think of our political process is working. Do we know how this might go? Is there sort of a historical example of someone jumping in skipping the early primary States buying a lot of TV ads sucking a lot of air out of the room.

2 (21m 22s):
Do we know how this is going to play for Bloomberg? There's nothing quite like this. I mean, we do have examples of candidates saying they can skip Iowa New Hampshire and pick it up later Rudy Giuliani in 2008 was the most prominent example of that it hasn't worked. No, we've never had a self-funded on the scale. But we have had a lot of campaigns though Graham in 1996 Jeb Bush in 2016 who sort of amassed these huge amounts of money through super Pacs or other mechanisms, and then they proved they they couldn't ultimately win with that. People said I'm sick that too far to say like well money doesn't matter Tom steyer spent a lot of money to try to get up to four five percent in the polls to try to get on the debate stage and that work sure a Bloomberg comes in. He can probably find a niche constituency for himself and that will take Take a couple presents away from other people and that will impact the race.

2 (22m 10s):
It's just it's hard to imagine going forward. Like what is really the constituency for Michael Bloomberg? Like what is the lane? He's in how does he connect with people? He's not a super Dynamic person. He's not a natural politician if he wasn't a successful businessman, you wouldn't meet him and be like this guy should run for office. Yeah, that's a problem, you know his election results in New York. His first race was a very very very Era win against an opponent who he badly outspend and it's because his constellation of views is a little bit weird and his Charisma is like zero or less.

1 (22m 44s):
We need a president who understands that truth and who can do it rather than just make promises and I offer myself as a problem solver and a doer not a talker.

2 (22m 55s):
So we shouldn't feel this sort of malaise. The billionaires can just jump in and buy the presidency instead we could maybe feel as a lesser malaise that billionaires can Jump in and buy five or six percent of the base. I mean there is a 8 malaise in that billionaires can can derail the national conversation at least for a couple days with their spending and they can buy certain things. But yeah, I mean, I don't think we should worry that Michael Bloomberg is going to single-handedly come in and take everything over if anything by running he is depriving other candidates of the opportunity to potentially benefit from his money, right if you're thinking okay.

1 (23m 35s):
Who

2 (23m 36s):
is a mayor of a New York City area City who also has a solid Progressive record on environmentalism is a strong gun control supporter is an education reformer, which is controversial with some unions. But who has a lot of Charisma and could be a big moderate Champion Cory Booker. I

1 (23m 55s):
wanted to return back to this issue of black voters. I have a lifetime of experience with black voters. I've been one since I was 18, he's campaign is really been

2 (24m 5s):
struggling. But he Pro Booker Super PAC with a few hundred million dollars in it to generate a little rise for him in the polls could get people to write more stories. Like what's up with Cory Booker and that could get more people to watch him on TV and he's like a really good public speaker. Unlike Michael Bloomberg and he's African-American and could gain some of those votes from buying right. Now. You could tell a story where a little Booker boom takes off and we're a big infusion of funds helps him but boomerangs not going to do that because he's spending the money. Himself, but what does it say that this billionaire with a long history of supporting Progressive causes and even Progressive candidates took a look at this field and said I gotta run.

2 (24m 46s):
Well, there's a fascinating Divergence right? If you look at polls satisfaction with the Democratic field has never been higher most Democrats like Joe Biden that's larger than the share who say they're going to vote for him. But he's very popular, right? Bernie Sanders is also liked by most Democrats and he has a base of people who are fanatical. About him Elizabeth Warren is also popular with most Democrats and she has her own base in the middle there. Then you have a bunch of sort of also-ran candidates who are above 50% in their approval with the Democrats who've heard of them. That's people like Amy Klobuchar people like Cory Booker were nowhere in the polls, but most Democrats when they see these people they say yeah that person's fine. Yeah, then you have Elites, right?

2 (25m 27s):
Both donors elected officials party professionals. They look at this field and they see Warren and Sanders are too far left and Joe. Is too old and not Dynamic enough and not raising enough money and they are freaking out and it's incredible disjuncture between the voters who are very happy with their top three choices also happy with the number of lesser choices and the sort of people who do this professionally who are like wait, this is terrible. Like why do we have 3 70 something's two of whom have extreme views and one of whom can barely put a coherent sentence together. And so another 70 something enters the race.

2 (26m 7s):
It would be fascinating to see someone like when we're getting and like a class Trader campaign to be like you're right. The billionaire class has betrayed the American people and I'm the only one who can stand up against them. Like people might like that but he's not trying and he's not probably going there any types. No definitely not every that's not what he thinks but Michael Bloomberg is to the best II know him I know his team he is one of the most sincere and uncomplicated. You see out there. He thinks he's right about this sort of nonsensical constellation of political views. He thinks he'd be a good president. He doesn't have a lot of political skills or natural constituency, but he's not going to let that stop it.

2 (27m 4s):
Matthew yglesias is the host of the weeds podcast from box episodes drop on Tuesdays and Fridays. Today's episode is all about the policy context of impeachment in terms of us Russia relations and Ukraine us relations going all the way back to the protests and Ukraine in the winter of 2013 and 2014. The decline of us Russia relations that happened after the fall of Viktor Yanukovych and the long-term repercussions. Oceans of that for American politics. I'm Sean rhombus from this is today explained.

2 (27m 47s):
Thanks for listening to this episode of today explained. I really hope you enjoyed it. It was brought to you with support from the quip electric toothbrush company the quip electric toothbrush starts at just $25 and you get your first set of refills. Absolutely free at get quip.com. Explain. Thank you. Thank whip Thanksgiving.