0 (1s):
It feels like every month there's another state trying to ban trans athletes from participating in school sports. This month it's North Carolina. The

2 (11s):
Bill forces athletes to compete with their biological sex and not their gender identity. This would apply to middle school, high school and college.

0 (20s):
But this month someone else walked directly into this hotly contested debate. A

3 (25s):
New plan proposed by the president would prevent states from banning transgender athletes in public schools.

0 (31s):
The Biden administration wants to bring some clarity to the chaos that is the trans athletes debate in America. We're gonna try and figure out if that's even possible on today. Explain.

4 (43s):
They deserve not to live in fear of losing a scholarship because a biological male caused them to lose it.

5 (52s):
They are in a competition to see who has the least tolerance for the existence of trans students

0 (1m 11s):
Today. Explains Sean Ramo firm here with Katie Barnes from s p n to talk about the hot mess that is the debate over trans athletes in America. We started with just what is going on with this issue right now.

6 (1m 24s):
The short answer to that question is a lot is going on right now. The more complicated answer is that we're in the middle of a seriously intense shifting policy landscape, and those shifts are happening at an international level,

7 (1m 47s):
The international governing body over track and field announcing a band that prevents transgender athletes from participating in female events after going through male

6 (1m 56s):
Puberty at a national level. So

8 (1m 58s):
The Republican Land House of Representatives passed a bill today banning transgender women from competing in school sports

6 (2m 5s):
And at a local level,

9 (2m 6s):
Senate Bill 15 filed by Republican Maize. Middleton of Galveston would require college athletes to play on sports teams based on their gender assigned at birth.

6 (2m 15s):
And they're all different conversations about different types of sports. And so at the state level, in the last, you know, three years really, if we go back to 2020, we've seen about 20 states past restrictions of some kind when it comes to transgender athletes participating in school and collegiate sports. Additionally, the House of Representatives recently passed a bill out of its chamber that would restrict transgender girls and women from participating in girls and women's sports at the school level. And we're also seeing the Biden administration come out with a proposed regulatory shift in regards to Title IX and how Title IX applies to the question of transgender athletes participating in schools and collegiate sports.

6 (3m 9s):
This is without a doubt, a partisan issue. Transgender athletes and in particular transgender girls and women participating in girls in women's sports is an animating issue for conservatives in the United States and certainly for the Republican Party House

10 (3m 25s):
Republicans pledged before the last election or commitment to America to protect women and girls in sports Today. We kept that promise.

6 (3m 33s):
So the house passed House Resolution 7 34, again along party lines, and it's a very simple bill that would restrict transgender girls and women from participating in girls of women's sports.

4 (3m 46s):
Radical interpretations of Title IX have allowed men to slowly encroach more and more on women's competitions. American women and girls deserve better than what Democrats are doing to them

6 (4m 1s):
At its simplest distillation. Basically what the bill says is that for sports purposes, sex will be determined by your reproductive biology and your genetics at birth. So even if you change your birth certificate, that doesn't necessarily matter. And it mirrors a lot of what we've seen from a legislative perspective at the state level using similar language, similar ways to restrict participation and then further restrict the category of women's sports by saying that anyone who is not designated or assigned female at birth is not eligible for that category.

0 (4m 38s):
And will resolution 7 34 go anywhere with Democrats in control of the Senate and the White House?

6 (4m 46s):
Likely no. For the reason that you alluded to in your question, Biden would veto such legislation more than likely, and the Senate is unlikely to take it up for as long as the Democrats hold control of the Chamber.

0 (5m 0s):
And while we're on President Biden, tell us what he just proposed. Recently

6 (5m 4s):
What has happened is that President Biden and the Department of Education has proposed a regulatory change in how Title IX is regulated.

11 (5m 16s):
The proposal would mean any blanket policy prohibiting transgender athletes from competing would violate Title ix. That's the law that prohibits sex-based discrimination by schools that receive government funding.

6 (5m 29s):
Title ix, despite being known for being the legislation and the law that caused the creation of women's sports, actually doesn't say anything about sports in the law. Hmm. Yeah. It's only 37 words long.

12 (5m 44s):
No person in the United States shall on the basis of sex be excluded

13 (5m 49s):
From participation in be denied the benefits

12 (5m 52s):
Of or be subjected to discrimination under any education program.

14 (5m 57s):
Our activity receiving federal financial assistance

6 (6m 0s):
And the activities part is where we get to sports. And so after that law was passed in 1972, then there was a series of hearings and regulatory decisions about, okay, what is this actually gonna look like? And that happened in 1975 where the then Department of Education, which was called something different at that time, went through the process of creating these regulations for what Title IX practically is going to look like from an implementation perspective. And so what the Biden administration is proposing is a shift in those regulations in terms of how Title IX will be implemented and how education institutions and schools and those who are held accountable against Title IX will be evaluated in terms of whether or not they are in compliance.

6 (6m 51s):
Practically what it means is that the Biden administration from the regulatory proposal that they have publicly released, is that these categorical bans that exist in a number of these states and these broad restrictions that exist in a number of these states are not something that the administration believes is allowable under Title ix.

15 (7m 14s):
The education department said very clearly yesterday that these blanket bands that we're seeing, like the one in Kansas violate Title IX under this proposal.

6 (7m 24s):
And so the legislation itself in terms of how they restrict transgender athletes isn't just talking about high school. It's not just talking about division one athletics. The overwhelming majority of these laws restrict transgender girls and in some cases transgender boys from participating in sports in accordance to their gender identity all the way down to elementary school and all the way up to intramural level college participation. So functionally what that means, what the Biden administration is saying is that seven year old soccer, second grade, third grade soccer, is not the same as division one competitive swimming.

6 (8m 6s):
And that's also not the same as club hockey at your college. And that's also not the same as women's intermural flag football.

16 (8m 15s):
The idea that was going on, you know, in some states, I won't get into the politics of it, but in some states it's just, it's outrageous and I think it's immoral.

0 (8m 26s):
Let's talk about this practically for a second here, Katie. So this Biden rule, how would it apply to say a, I don't know, a seven year old trans girl who wants to swim in her elementary school swim, meet?

6 (8m 40s):
The Biden regulations would say that if a state is passing legislation that would try to restrict her participation, it would likely not be in compliance with the regulation. Same thing if that was happening at like a school level as well. If a school wasn't enacting a rule that would restrict that participation, they wouldn't comply with the policy,

0 (9m 1s):
Which means that they would be risking their funding

6 (9m 3s):
More than likely, yes.

0 (9m 5s):
Okay. Let's, let's up the ante here. How about a 17 year old trans teenager who is really good at running the a hundred meter?

6 (9m 16s):
From what I was able to glean from these proposed regulations, if that athlete was com trying to compete in a state that had restrictive policies or the school was trying to restrict that athlete from participating in on the girls track team, they would have to make a compelling argument to the Department of Education for why that athlete should not be allowed to compete beyond simply, well, they're assigned male at birth. Huh? And therefore have an advantage. So

0 (9m 49s):
At that level, it gets kind of case by case.

6 (9m 51s):
I would say so, but I, I also think that like the administration is not necessarily proposing a rule that says, well each individual athlete is going to have go through this regulatory process. Rather it is from a regulatory standpoint is saying, here's the kind of restrictions that will not pass muster. If you are going to restrict an athlete, here are the types of things that we will consider. And then you have to make the case. But then they also go on to say, but you can't just say because they're trans. It has to be more compelling than that.

0 (10m 31s):
It sounds like the Biden administration is trying to find some nuance in a debate that doesn't have a lot of nuance.

6 (10m 39s):
That is correct. And that's all over the document. And I think it's worth saying that again, you know, I talked about how Title IX is 37 words. The proposal, like the actual regulation from the Biden administration is only a few sentences. But the document explaining the context for that change and the thought process and also the regulatory process that this proposal underwent is 116 pages long.

0 (11m 12s):
What that feels like cheating,

6 (11m 15s):
It was, honestly, it was quite a surprise to me too. So it's a lot of information. And in there, in that document is a lot of wrestling with here's what the International Olympic Committee is proposing for its elite athletes. Here's what our United States national governing bodies are doing. And they are making a distinction between their elite level athletes and their participatory younger athletes. And so specifically the proposed regulations pointed to USA gymnastics, USA volleyball, as examples of national governing bodies that are making these distinctions as well.

6 (11m 57s):
And so it's a very nuanced, heavy document trying to thread a very small, very specific needle in a politically charged conversation.

0 (12m 7s):
So this Biden Title IX adjustment, is it happening or is it a proposal? When does this become real, if ever? So

6 (12m 16s):
It's a proposal in that it is now open for public comment and will remain open for public comment for the next few weeks. But then once that public comment is closed, they will finalize the regulation and it will go into effect

0 (12m 37s):
More with Katie in a minute on today. Explain

Shopify (12m 59s):
This episode of Today Explained is brought to you by Shopify. You can buy almost anything online. I mean you can get almost anything online. You can like give away almost anything online. There's like that Facebook free stuff group or whatever where people are picking up like a half open container, a half eaten container of peanuts. It's real out there. Anyway, the point is that you can sell just about anything online and Shopify is a commerce platform helping millions of businesses do exactly that. Shopify isn't just for e-commerce. They can also make it simple to combine in-person business with your online sales. So you can put focus back on your company whether you want to access social media marketplaces like TikTok or Facebook just mentioned and Instagram, or just lean into some great new tools that could help fuel your growth. You can sign up for $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/explain. You can go to shopify.com/explain to see if Shopify can take your business to the next level today. That is shopify.com/explained.

17 (14m 5s):
Here's the scene. You walk into a courtroom, but instead of meeting your human lawyer, you slip on a headset and you meet your AI lawyer.

18 (14m 14s):
It would listen to what's being said in the courtroom, process it with the AI and then whisper back to the person what to say.

17 (14m 20s):
This is Joshua Browder. And he tried to get an AI lawyer into a real courtroom. It didn't go well. He got sued

18 (14m 28s):
And all these lawsuits, it's just the dinosaurs suing to stop the i h

17 (14m 34s):
Browder believes AI is the future, that it's real world magic and there are a lot of people like it. There's also a lot of people who think this is all bs. I'm Peter Kafka, I'm the host of Recode Media and I'm doing a special three-part series breaking down the Hype around ai. You can find it in the media feed right now. This is something the biggest companies in the world are spending tons of money on something that's consuming Silicon Valley and it's something that has a lot of people really, really worried. I talk to all of them. So come tour the AI boom with me. The first episode is out now, it's in the Recode Media feed

0 (15m 15s):
Today explained. We are back with Katie Barnes from ESPN talking about trans athletes in American sports and And Katie, the last time we covered this issue in 2021, the vibes were that there actually weren't very many trans athletes in American sports. Has that changed in the past two years?

6 (15m 31s):
Not really. There aren't that many. Still. Still, yeah. The reality is that very few young people identify as transgender, although that number is of course rising because of young people's ability to access language and discover their identities in a different way than certainly I had access to growing up in rural Indiana in the nineties. And so despite I think all of this general panicky feeling about transgender athletes sort of dominating women's sports in general, the reality is, is that there are very few competing and there are even fewer competing with championship level success. And so one of the examples of that is actually out of Utah in 2022, the governor of Utah vetoed a bill that would've restricted a transgender girls from participating in girls and women's sports in that state at the school level.

6 (16m 26s):
If

20 (16m 26s):
You have not spent time with transgender youth, then I would encourage you to pause on this issue.

6 (16m 36s):
And the reason given by the governor was that at that moment, only four athletes in competing in the state at that time were known to be trans. And only one of them was a transgender girl.

20 (16m 47s):
These kids are, they're just trying to stay alive.

6 (16m 51s):
And so there are these examples of singular or a few athletes in these states, but the AP did a story asking the legislators who were proposing these bills to identify athletes in their states who are trans and who are competing and causing a problem in women's sports, so to speak. And the overwhelming majority of those legislators couldn't name a local case. Hmm. And so the reality is, is that when we talk about this issue, there are a handful of names that come up consistently. Leah Thomas, right? The University of Pennsylvania swimmer,

21 (17m 31s):
Trans people don't transition for athletics. We transition to be happy and authentic. And our true selves transitioning to get an advantage is not something that ever factors into our decisions.

6 (17m 46s):
CC Telfer who won a division two national championship in the 400 hundred meter hurdles in 2019, who ran at Franklin Pierce University.

5 (17m 53s):
I'm a female athlete, so I compete in female sports. The trends aspect of it is just used to define something that people cannot understand. However, at the end of the day, we are women, we are female athletes as well, and we should be treated and seen as such.

6 (18m 8s):
And then at the high school level, you have like Andrea Yearwood and Terry Miller who are transgender girls from Connecticut who won a number of state championships in that state. They've

7 (18m 18s):
Both started hormone therapy and say that for the most part they've been welcomed by friends, family coaches, and administrators with open arms. But there is some backlash from parents and students. Two petitions were even started in an attempt to change the current rule of the state's governing body of inter interscholastic sports.

6 (18m 35s):
And Mac Beggs, a transgender boy from Texas who is a wrestler and won a girl state championship because of a specific circumstance of overlapping policies that required him to wrestle in the girls' wrestling category. Even though most states don't actually have a girls' wrestling

22 (18m 51s):
Category, my goal is always is just to make it the state. Like I never thought that I would actually win it and I worked hard for it.

6 (19m 2s):
And so those are kind of the names that come up a lot. And there are a couple of others, but there isn't a huge number of athletes competing. And in fact, through young transgender people speaking out about this legislation, we've heard a number of different stories of transgender girls whose athletic experience reflects, frankly something of my own growing up in Indiana playing basketball. Hmm. You know, it was a perfectly serviceable varsity point guard, but that was the extent of my athletic experience. And so an example of that is Becky Pepper Jackson, who is the plaintiff in the West Virginia case, currently being heard by the Fourth Circuit of Appeals.

6 (19m 43s):
And she's 12 years old and is a cross country runner and her whole family runs and she just wants to run with her friends in middle school. That's it.

23 (19m 51s):
12 year old Becky Pepper Jackson can continue to compete on her school's track and field team while her lawsuit against West Virginia's ban on trans athletes competing on girls teams winds its way through the court. The Supreme Court declined to intervene in the case at this point. So Becky can continue to compete for now.

6 (20m 10s):
So I would say that for every, like Leah Thomas example, there are a number of athletes who have been competing and participating in sports largely without incident because they don't win in a controversial manner in their category, and so therefore are nationally uninteresting. Right.

0 (20m 31s):
But I imagine some Americans take issue with a trans woman winning a competitive college level swim meet. Is that basically how this breaks down in terms of popular opinion?

6 (20m 44s):
In my professional experience, I'm inclined to say you're likely correct. However, the polling that we have doesn't make that distinction. And frankly the legislation doesn't make that distinction either. Hmm. So there's an NPR poll that came out last year that said that two thirds roughly of Americans are opposed to allowing transgender women and girls to compete on teams that align with their gender identities

0 (21m 6s):
No matter what cohort, what, what age group

6 (21m 9s):
That question wasn't asked.

0 (21m 10s):
Aha. Because

6 (21m 11s):
Largely this issue isn't necessarily approached with that level of nuance. The reality is, is that as Americans, we are having many different conversations at the same time and making no distinction in our language. And I think that's one of the reasons why the Biden proposed regulatory change is difficult for a lot of people to grasp because it does do that. Hmm. It tries very hard to grapple with the different questions and how they apply to different levels of sport and what could be allowed at the high school and collegiate competitive level versus what should not be allowed at second grade soccer level.

6 (21m 53s):
But the current legislation as it stands does not make that distinction. In fact, it goes out of its way to not make that distinction

0 (22m 2s):
And, and what happens if you just blanket ban trans kids from participating at these insignificant levels?

6 (22m 11s):
They don't play sports. It's so simple. As Americans, we love elite and professional sports. It's part of the fabric of the American dream that someone can grow up playing basketball on their park court, get discovered and make it big in the N B A. We love those stories. And so there's a part of the youth sports apparatus that drives that desire to get scholarships to go pro, to be an Olympian. But the reality is very few of us will ever make it that far. Right.

6 (22m 51s):
But also sports are skills. You have to be good at the sport to become an Olympian. One does not become an Olympian simply because they were assigned male at birth. And so these restrictions when enacted at a really low level, including elementary school, middle school, what that, what that does just removes the ability for that athlete to have an affirming experience in just normal sports. Which again is the experience for the overwhelming majority of the population. Hmm. And I don't mean like 65, 70 5%, I mean 96% of those who play up to high school sports do not go on to continue to compete in college.

6 (23m 42s):
So by enacting these restrictions in such a broad way, it really is limiting the sporting opportunity for really young kids and to have a typical sports experience that the overwhelming majority of the American public would have access to.

0 (23m 57s):
So do you think this new rule proposal from the Biden administration that attempts to find some nuance in this debate will last?

6 (24m 6s):
I think it depends on how it is discussed and how it's communicated. And also, you know, whether or not the Biden administration gets sued. You know, like the last time an administration tried to articulate a policy for transgender inclusion in schools broadly, which happened under the Obama administration, 23 states sued that administration over it. So how this plays out I think really remains to be seen. But I will say I think the regulations are certainly more nuanced than has been discussed in general.

0 (24m 57s):
Katie Barnes, espn, they're the author of a forthcoming book called Fair Play How Sports Shape the Gender Debates. It's coming out in September. Our program today was produced by Haddi Modi. It was edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Avi Shai Artsy and Laura Bullard. And we were mixed by Paul Robert Moundy and Michael Rayfield. This is today Explained.