0 (1s):
Beto O'Rourke failed Senate candidate.

1 (5s):
Senator Cruz is not going to be honest with you. He's gonna make up positions and votes that I've never held or have ever taken. He's dishonest. It's why the president called him lying Ted. And it's why the nickname stuck because it's true.

0 (17s):
Failed presidential candidate.

1 (19s):
Our daughter Molly turned 11 this week. I'm on this stage for her, for children across this country, including some her same age who've been separated from their parents and are sleeping on concrete floors under aluminum blankets tonight.

0 (34s):
Future failed gubernatorial candidate. That one remains to be seen, of course, but a lot of people think Betos got a chance, more of a chance than anyone's had in a long, long time. His competition, Governor Greg Abbott, is about as divisive as they come, but still can Beto really flip Texas that's today explained today

3 (1m 0s):
The case of a missing indigenous Alaska women sparks new questions about other missing and murdered indigenous women. But when the cops stop looking, a team of local journalists step in to bring the truth to light, that's where ABC's thrilling new drama Alaska Daily begins and where it's headed. We'll have you on the edge of your seat starring two time Oscar winner, Hillary Swank, Grace Dove and scandals. Jeff Perry Alaska Daily premieres Thursday, October 6th on ABC and Stream. Next day on Hulu,

4 (1m 37s):
There's a big new gay movie out and one of its stars says when you're making a gay movie that you want straight people to watch you tread carefully.

5 (1m 46s):
Are you familiar with the concept of Shonda sort? Sam,

4 (1m 51s):
Tell me all about that.

5 (1m 53s):
It's a Yiddish phrase and it's basically means you're embarrassing us. In front of the Gentiles,

4 (1m 58s):
We unpack the new Romcom Bros on into it. Vultures Pop Culture podcast.

2 (2m 8s):
What

0 (2m 9s):
Do you think today explains

2 (2m 10s):
This?

0 (2m 13s):
I dunno. Today explain Sean Ramer, Washington DC here with Brandon rotting house political science professor at the University of Houston and Texas. Let's talk about a very exciting election in the Lone Star state.

6 (2m 27s):
It's extremely exciting. Texas politics is definitely always a series of fireworks like the 4th of July every other week.

0 (2m 36s):
Now, if politics is about as exciting as like filing your taxes to you, I totally get it. I totally get it. But still this Will they or won't they question about the Democrats flipping Texas? It's enticing.

6 (2m 49s):
Democrats are making it interesting and I think partly it's just Texans are so anxious for a real two party state. You're seeing a lot more competition than you have in the past. You've got demographic changes which affect the race and favor in theory, the Democrats. You've got a lot of money around, which obviously helps to kind of lubricate the machinery of politics. You've got more interest at the grassroots and that's creating kind of more interesting candidates to run to talk about. So you've got almost 30 years of Republican rule. Think about this. The last time a Democrat won a US Senate seat die hard was in theaters.

2 (3m 29s):
You'd

0 (3m 30s):
Became mother.

6 (3m 31s):
So the Democrats are still struggling.

5 (3m 34s):
Do you really think you have a chance against us, Mr. Cowboy? But

6 (3m 37s):
They have a lot of things that are moving towards the moment where they're likely to find some success. Because of all of this time, Republicans have been in charge of the state. They've made mistakes, and the number of these things is myriad.

8 (3m 58s):
Millions were plunged into freezing cold and darkness as a major winter storm overwhelm the state's under-prepared power grid

9 (4m 7s):
Now to the terrible predicament facing hundreds of thousands of low income Texas families. They make too much money to get Medicaid, but not enough to buy private insurance Texas Republican leaders to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, which would cover these Texans

10 (4m 23s):
Tonight, a series of flight records show Governor Greg Abbott spent more time fundraising just hours after the shooting in Yalda than he initially let on. Abbott first said he stopped at a campaign event on May 24th, just to say he couldn't stay long. Now records show he spent nearly three hours at the event.

0 (4m 48s):
Well, let's talk about the, the two characters involved here. At what point does Beto versus Abbott look like an actual competition? When does that happen and how?

6 (4m 60s):
I think it, it began in part when the grid failed because that gave the Democrats a really bold example to point to, to say that the Republicans have been in charge for too long and they're not doing a good job.

1 (5m 14s):
The Republican Party, as you know, Mika has had absolute control of the state Senate, the State House, every statewide office for the last 20 years. So the decisions to deregulate Earth cut and to ensure that it's not connected to the national grid, to fail to weatherize our power generators. These are all decisions that they made and now of course they're pointing the finger at everyone and everything except for themselves, which does not inspire confidence that we're going to get our way out of this.

6 (5m 42s):
I think what he was doing was to really, I think, bring people into the equation. I

1 (5m 47s):
Was here in February when the power grid failure knocked the lights out, shut the heat down, froze your pipes, which later burst water flowed, ruined so many, many of your homes and apartments and offices and buildings.

6 (6m 1s):
It's easy to talk about these issues as a kind of statewide problem where you know, there's issues that are connected to the technical aspects of the grid. And of course it was an unusual weather event. So you can sort of pass over the personal, but or work made it

1 (6m 16s):
Personal. It killed hundreds of our fellow Texans. Yeah. Including an 11 year old boy who literally froze to death in his bed because in the energy capital of North America, we could not keep the power running.

6 (6m 29s):
Isn't that's useful because the kind of counterclaim is that the Republicans aren't thinking about people, the thinking about themselves. And so there's an opportunity there for Democrats to show that people matter. And O'Rourke is kind of uniquely able to do that because he's got this kind of grassroots appeal about him.

0 (6m 45s):
What comes next?

6 (6m 46s):
The biggest issue that he's focused on has been abortion. Obviously the DOS decision created a tremendous opportunity for Democrats to say that the state and the country are out of step with where most people are. The polling is a little bit wonky on this.

11 (7m 2s):
Only 15% said that by law, abortion should never be permitted. 39% said that by law, a woman should always be able to obtain an abortion is a matter of personal choice. Tellingly 28% said that the law should only permit abortion in cases of rape ancestor when the woman's life is in danger,

6 (7m 22s):
But the issue favors or work. So that's something that he's really personified and not just about abortion access, but really as a pivot to healthcare issues. His big approach in 2018 was about healthcare politics.

1 (7m 35s):
I'll go to Weatherford or I'll go to Henrietta and folks will say, I don't like Obamacare. And they may blame President Obama or the Democrats for it, but they don't want to go back. They say get something better. And for me, and for many of them that means universal healthcare, making sure everyone can see a doctor and they just

6 (7m 52s):
Get, and I think the one thing he's really good at for Democrats is giving people a sense that they're involved in this. He talks about people and talks to people.

1 (8m 0s):
I say this to all of the women in the room right now, it looks like very dark days in a state that has one of the highest maternal mortality rates in the developed world. Because as you shut down reproductive healthcare clinics, you're also shutting down the opportunity to get a cervical cancer screening, to see a family planning provider, to see a doctor of any kind in the least insured state in America watch that get worse as they follow up this decision by trying to ban contraception in the state of Texas going forward. So as tough as this looks right now, tell you this, I am gonna fight for you.

6 (8m 38s):
They focused on things that people cared about and were worried about. So he's used the abortion issue to pivot to healthcare and those are two issues where Republicans are not seen as being strong. So

0 (8m 49s):
You've got the grid abortion. Are there other challenges that Beto presents to to Greg Abbott?

6 (8m 56s):
The biggest other challenge you didn't mention is on gun control.

12 (8m 59s):
The new Quinnipiac University poll of more than 1200 Texans shows there are solid majorities who want to see stricter gun laws in the US and that includes requiring background checks for all gun purchases and raising the minimum age to 21 for being able to buy any type of gun.

0 (9m 16s):
And on this particular issue, Beto literally gets an abbots face.

1 (9m 20s):
Governor Abbot have to say something,

13 (9m 22s):
Excuse me, time, excuse this, excuse

1 (9m 26s):
Me. Was after Santa Fe

14 (9m 27s):
Sit down,

1 (9m 30s):
Was El,

14 (9m 31s):
Sit down and don't play. This

1 (9m 34s):
Shooting is right now and you are doing nothing. No, you're operating

0 (9m 37s):
Think that

6 (9m 38s):
The boldness of it was something Democrats wanted. They're tired of just the stayed, you know, kind of one on one or ad war that's inevitable in these kinds of races. They wanna see some energy, they wanna see some political blood and or work literally as you said, confronts the governor saying, you know, this is something that has to be solved.

1 (9m 59s):
We owe those parents action, they they want us to do something right now. I want us to do something right now. We can do something right now, but if we continue to accept this, then it is on us. It's not just the governor's fault, it it is on us.

6 (10m 14s):
He doesn't wanna be the Beth O'Rourke from 2020. Hell

1 (10m 19s):
Yes, we're gonna take your AR 15, your AK 47,

15 (10m 22s):
We're not gonna allow it to be used against fellow Americans anymore.

6 (10m 27s):
That's a different kind of O'Rourke. And although the episode into of all day helped to contextualize that and made it more neutral, at least it's still the case that a lot of Republicans view him as the kind of gun snatching liberal bet O'Rourke. He wants to kind of cut it straight down the middle, which is where most Texans are on the issue. So he is in advertising and in his stump speeches talking about common sense gun control, things that everybody thinks are important to stopping this

12 (10m 57s):
O'Rourke said he wants to start with potential gun legislation where there's common ground that includes universal background checks, safe storage laws and red flag laws aimed at keeping people with mental health problems from gaining access to guns. These

1 (11m 11s):
Are places where gun owners, non-gun owners, Republicans, democrats, independents alike are on the same

6 (11m 17s):
Page. And I think that combined with the fact that the kinds of emotional responses to these terrible tragedies is front and center for people is a way to be able to connect. And I think that even in a place that's so conservative like Texas, it loves its guns, there's still the case that people are uncomfortable with that and wanna see more common sense gun control.

0 (11m 38s):
And I think that's the only time these two guys have been like head to head in any kind of confrontation that that people at least saw was, was when Beto confronted Abbott on guns. But but this week they actually meet for a debate

6 (11m 51s):
That's right head to head on Friday night, which is unfortunate actually Texas has a long tradition of having debates on Friday night when historically is the night for high school football. So I think you won't get the kind of attention that normally would get. That's so

0 (12m 7s):
Weird. Why, why Friday night?

6 (12m 9s):
I don't know. Except to say that for at least the last 25 years you've had Republican incumbents and they've insisted on having these debates on Friday nights. This is true Rick Perry. It's been true of Greg Abbott. So when

0 (12m 21s):
No one will be watching them,

6 (12m 22s):
Yeah, it's a way to kind of skirt and get, you know, less attention to it. Hmm. But obviously we live in a digital age where you can see these things after the fact. I'm surprised, frankly, they debated at all. Greg Abbott has a history of kind of avoiding the media and so this is definitely a different style, which to me suggests that they're a little bit worried.

2 (12m 48s):
Ken

0 (12m 49s):
Beto actually do it though and, and what would it mean if he did? That's momentarily on today. Explained

16 (13m 14s):
Kara Swisher here. You may know me as the person who made Mark Zuckerberg's sweat pushed Kim Kardashian to talk dollars or got Secretary Mayor Pete Buttigieg to eat a juicy strawberry live on stage. Okay, that one was awkward, but that's what I like to do. Make powerful people comfortable with being uncomfortable. Now I'll be doing that on my new show from New York Magazine on with Kara Swisher. We'll bring you news and the newsmakers I'm paying attention to and we'll do it twice a week on Mondays and Thursdays. Go check it out on with Kara Swisher wherever you get your podcasts.

17 (13m 53s):
Hey folks, I wanna tell you about another show that I have heard is amazing. It's called, This is Love. It's a podcast that takes a very broad view of love sharing stories, not just about romance, but also about people doing strange things that mean a lot to them. Like someone who digs up old backyard outhouses to find hidden treasure and a group of people desperately trying to keep one type of tree alive. Some of the stories are really funny. There's an episode about a guy who puts on a huge pair of fake feet and makes tracks up and down the beach. He spends decades fooling his neighbors. And some of the stories are heartwarming. They have won about a man who found a baby on a subway platform.

17 (14m 33s):
Listen for stories about love and all of the surprising forms it can take. You can subscribe to, This is Love wherever you get podcasts.

2 (14m 46s):
Mama,

18 (14m 47s):
Tell all your babies Don't mess with Texas

2 (14m 50s):
To

18 (14m 53s):
Don't let em throw cans from them old pickup trucks. Don't let 'em throw bottles and papers and such. Mamas tell all your babies don't mess with Texas. Keep your trash off the roads that she's a fine yellow rose. Can treat Texas like someone you love

0 (15m 16s):
Today. Explain back with Brandon rotting house political science profit, University of Houston. Brandon, we've been talking about this race in terms of the mistakes Governor Abbott has made and the openings they leave for Betta O'Rourke. But let's talk about the polls. We know it's a flawed science, but how does this race look in the polls?

6 (15m 35s):
It's, I would say close. You've got a Republican and a Democrat who were within single digits of each other in a state like Texas. The

19 (15m 47s):
Quinnipiac Poll shows O'Rourke trailing five points behind the incumbent. To give you a little context, in December, O'Rourke was trailing 15 points behind.

6 (15m 56s):
That's definitely something that's new. So whether of course, you know O'Rourke ultimately prevails is unknown, but the fact that it's close does suggest a decades long process where you've got a bunch of new voters, you've got a change in terms of the demographics. In Texas, we've

20 (16m 13s):
Reached a point where Hispanic residents now make up more of the state's population than white residents.

6 (16m 18s):
You've got more money flowing to the state

21 (16m 20s):
So far this election year, open secret shows Governor Greg Abbott has had roughly $116.8 million contributed to his campaign. While Democratic Challenger Besoro has 40 points, 7 million.

6 (16m 33s):
These things are all generating enthusiasm and I think that's what's keeping it close.

0 (16m 41s):
And when we say single digits, I, I think earlier this summer maybe I saw the number 7%. Beto was within 7%. More recently I've seen the number nine. But yeah, as it, it's inching upwards I guess so. So it's getting worse for Beto as we get closer to the election.

6 (16m 56s):
It's getting a little worse. Yeah, for him, I mean what you're seeing is the kind of mobilization phenomenon now instead of the persuasion phenomenon. When O'Rourke was spending a lot of money persuading Texans, you saw that number pretty low. But when push comes to shove and you ask people who were very likely to vote, the dynamics change a bit. And Abbott has an advantage and that's been the way that incumbents have done this in Texas for years. Effectively their ground game is really solid. They literally have an Abbott University where Governor Abbott set up these organizations to train, train people to block walk not just during elections but all through the year. So that gives them this tremendous turnout potential.

6 (17m 38s):
The other is of course, that the governor has got tens of millions of dollars and the ability to be able to put that marker down before the election even starts and have ads reserved, gives him such poll position that it's really hard to undo. And that's why Democrats have struggled for so

22 (17m 57s):
Long. A recent review by the Associated Press found that since 2013 Abbott has accepted more than 120 million in political contributions. They've

6 (18m 7s):
Elected okay candidates, they've had the right issues, especially that connect to Texans more broadly and of course rally Democrats. But it's just the logistics of it that make it so hard for Democrats to be able to overcome the Republican advantage.

0 (18m 20s):
So, So Abbott's got tens of millions of dollars in his war chest. What does Beto have?

6 (18m 23s):
Betos got, I think a little more room to grow. He had a pretty good set of early fundraising numbers.

23 (18m 30s):
Democrat Beto O'Rourke out raised incumbent Greg Abbott. In the most recent campaign fundraising period, O'Rourke reported a fundraising record for a single period raising more than 27 million over four months.

6 (18m 42s):
But it's a third of what Abbott has raised. And so Abbott has had this for a long time. They know they can spend that money and put it in place, especially in terms of ads so that they don't have to scramble at the last minute. Abbott's money comes traditionally from a handful of really big donors, but he's been the party that's been the kind of stalwart figure and the money that is invested in Greg Abbott is known to be helpful to the rest of the Republican party. So that's why he's got so much money. He has a lot of mouths to feed, a lot of responsibility.

0 (19m 16s):
Hmm. So if it comes down to money, Abbots got this, if it comes down to recent historical precedent, Abbots got this. If it comes down to the culture of Texas, Abbott's got this, is there any way Beto can win this? I mean is there a chance that there's gonna be some October surprise, Is McConaughy gonna weigh in and throw this race in a certain direction? What happens?

24 (19m 38s):
You just gotta keep living man. L I V I n

6 (19m 43s):
McConaughy stayed sort of a little neutral except on the Yal Day issue. He definitely was front and center on that, going to the White House to be able to kind of stump for gun control, which was pretty effective. I think that'd be a big boost for O'Rourke. I'm not sure he's gonna get it, but I think there are a couple things that cut in favor of O'Rourke. The first is that the state is becoming less white overall. The

25 (20m 4s):
Populations of minority groups have increased the most, making Texas even more diverse.

6 (20m 8s):
And one thing that that suggest is that they're more likely to vote for Democrats. So in terms of the Latino population, in terms of African American population, in terms of the Asian population, those are all cutting in favor of O'Rourke. But it's a slow process. Demographic change as it applies to the political momentum is really a slow thing. So getting the turnout in the groups that are traditionally democratic allies has been a real challenge in a midterm. So O'Rourke needs to have the young people turnout, which they are in bigger numbers over the last couple cycles. Latinos turn out in bigger numbers, which they are. And in that's certainly apparent in the last couple cycles too.

6 (20m 50s):
So you're definitely seeing more energy and that's been something that Democrats have tried to harness, but the numbers themselves make it complicated. The other is that O'Rourke is winning among moderates of 45% to 28%. Moderate of course is a little squishy in terms of how to ideologically position them, but it certainly means that people who are not committed to the Republican approach and who maybe are a little ambivalent about where the state's been going in terms of conservative politics are in O'Rourke's favor. That in I think is being able to be harnessed bio rourke on issues like the grid on issues like abortion, on issues like uncontrolled wear. The states perceive to be moving way too far to the right.

6 (21m 30s):
So if these groups can rally behind o work, then there's a chance that he can cut that margin and do well in some key places that he needs to do well in in order to win statewide.

0 (21m 42s):
And maybe I should have asked you this a long time ago, but how big a deal would it be if Beto and the Democrats could flip Texas?

6 (21m 52s):
It would be massive.

0 (21m 57s):
It

6 (21m 57s):
Would be a political earthquake. And the reason is obviously for one, symbolic winning Texas would be something that Democrats have been trying for for 30 plus years. And to get back to the point where even in a very ru ruby Red Texas Democrats can appeal to Texans would definitely be a symbolic win for them.

0 (22m 19s):
But Beto unfortunately has a losing track record.

6 (22m 24s):
That's true. I think one of the complications that or work presents is that he's seen to be by Republicans opportunistic. He's seen to be a gun grabber. He seemed to be way too liberal and at it step with Texans. That's what Greg Abbott's saying and that's what a lot of the digital ads he's producing are implying. That's

26 (22m 44s):
Right. Beto stands with groups that support defunding the police. And

27 (22m 48s):
I know that it's an idea that is dangerous to some.

26 (22m 50s):
No, it's dangerous to everyone and it's why Beto O'Rourke should never be governor of Texas.

0 (22m 56s):
So what you're saying is we've been talking about flipping Texas for, it feels like almost a decade now, but probably even longer. But there's still quite a ways to go.

6 (23m 5s):
There's a long way to go. But I think that the demographic changes are certainly in a kind of slow motion process to favor Democrats. So part of the reason Republicans are raising so much money and have spent all this time campaigning in a way that we didn't see them do in 2020, was that they're worried about this and it's for good reason. The state is changing in such a way that they are potentially demographically gonna be on the outs. The other is that you're seeing effectively a brand new Texas. You've got millions of new people moving to the state. You've got millions of new voters who weren't voting in 2020 and certainly weren't voting in 2018.

6 (23m 46s):
So you've got effectively an entirely new political state. And so everybody's scrambling to try to find a way to connect to these voters on balance. Abbott and Republicans have been pretty successful at it, but that won't last forever. And if they continue to move in a very conservative direction, outta step with where many voters are, say on gun control issues, medical marijuana issues legalized full recreational marijuana issues, expanding Medicaid. There are a dozen of these issues where the Republican party is sort of at a step with where Texans are. And the more that gets highlighted, the harder it's gonna be For Republicans to hold power.

0 (24m 25s):
Brandon rotting house, find him at the University of Houston. Our program today was produced by Hadi Ma Wadi. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard, edited by Matthew Colette and mixed and mastered by Paul Robert Mosey and a theme Shapiro. It's today explained. There's

28 (24m 42s):
A place not too far away from here out with the cows and the lone star beer with limited nothing is quite all right with me. What they call in Texas, it's somebody find place to Russ, Texas, Canada, El Paso, Oklahoma, and Dallas and Santon

2 (25m 2s):
People

28 (25m 3s):
In Texas show make you feel at home.