1 (3s):
Vladimir Putin recently accused the Western world of trying to quote, cancel a whole 1000 year culture. It might seem like just another powerful white dude complaining about being canceled, but some fats, Russian acts are banned from Eurovision this year. Christie's and Sotheby's called off auctions of Russian art. The Munich Philharmonic parted ways with its conductor Valery Gergiev who's an old friend of Putin's. The Bolshoi ballet got booted from a residency at London's opera house and many, many miles from the Kremlin. A man in Peoria, Illinois made a decision Ahead today explained I'm Noel king.

1 (60s):
If you want to get serious about your workout routine this year, here's an idea team up with a personal fitness coach and build your own custom workout on future. All levels of fitness are welcome. Future is an app that sets you up with a personal coach who will develop your routine and keep you accountable every single day. Every month, you'll get unlimited training sessions and workouts with your own elite coach for the same cost as a single person training session, you can get started right now with 50% off your first three months at try future.com/explained again, that's try future.com/explained.

2 (1m 37s):
This episode is brought to you by HP. When you're working apart from your team, feeling connected can be a challenge. Presenting HP presence, a more thoughtful human collaboration technology with enhanced audio and video features. You can experience more genuine collaboration and feel more connected. Be in the room from any room with HP presence, learn more@hp.com forward slash presence.

3 (2m 14s):
Ladies and gentlemen, please silence your cell phones. The program is about to begin it's today explained

1 (2m 22s):
Maestro George saludo music director of the Peoria symphony orchestra in Peoria. Illinois had a big April concert plant. It was billed as Russian wonders, as you might guess, it featured the works of Russian composers and then an invasion happened. And now

4 (2m 40s):
Our concert is called now unity with Ukraine, but it's not an anti-Russian program by any stretch of the imagination. And we are doing Tchaikovsky's second symphony, which includes a lot of Ukrainian folk melodies because going back several generations into Tchaikovsky's background, his great, great grandfather and great-grandfather were Ukrainian. In fact, his last name was Cheika and eventually it was rationalized to Czajkowski, which was kind of a tradition of the day. If you were working in Imperial Russia,

1 (3m 16s):
What was the response from the members of your orchestra from your musicians? When you told them we're changing the program,

4 (3m 21s):
They understood and they had, they were pleased. Some of them had expressed concern.

1 (3m 27s):
What sorts of things were you hearing?

4 (3m 29s):
You know, there's a general concern about it because of what's going on around the world and other organizations canceling certain Russian artists or guests, artists. So we were getting just concerns about doing a concert, if you will. That was all Russian programming. And was that sending any kind of message? So we decided to adjust it a bit and also address Tchaikovsky's background, which everybody thinks he's a Russian composer. And he certainly was part of Imperial Russia, but his background was Ukrainian. And that was kind of covered up if you will, during the communist era. And I had to point out to people once we decided to keep a Tchaikovsky on the program, but go to the second symphony, which was nicknamed the little Russian,

1 (4m 17s):
Would you describe the first movement of the second symphony? What does it sound like?

4 (4m 24s):
It starts out kind of solemn. It uses Ukrainian folk melodies. One of them was a folk melody called down by mother vulgar, which refers to the river Volga. And it sounds very serious. And then it becomes quite energetic.

4 (5m 11s):
I would say it's got a kind of intensity about it, but in Tchaikovsky's context, I don't think that this intensity is combative or anything like that. It's just a kind of intense folk energy about it. And sometimes those, even those celebratory pieces were in minor He quotes another folk song in it called spin, oh my spinner You know, this is an obvious homage to Ukrainian culture and he's, he's done that in, in at least 30 of his compositions He was a world renowned conductor.

4 (6m 13s):
He grew up in St. Petersburg, worked in Moscow, was world famous. In fact, he conducted the opening concert at Carnegie hall when it was built. No kidding, but he also didn't quite fit into the culture of his country at the time. Maybe he was a, he was gay. He kind of has a, you know, place in, in our contemporary society because he, he was somebody who lived in society was revered as an artist by society, but didn't quite fit in. And so I think, you know, now is the time for his music to be understood his background, to be understood and his ancestry to be understood in the, from the fact that even that was a bit of a coverup, you know, he was a famous composer worldwide,

1 (7m 3s):
Let him or Putin came out and made a statement. Recently. He said, the west is trying to cancel Russian culture. Now you've made some pointed choices about which works. You're going to play at a symphony orchestra concert in Peoria, Illinois, many leaders in the arts are making similar decisions. What do you think of what Vladimir Putin said? The west is trying to cancel Russian culture?

4 (7m 26s):
I really don't think that's accurate. As we all know, you know, there's, there's the spin, the propaganda that takes place to foment, whatever sentiments are serving the people that save them. You know, there are some organizations out there orchestras that have canceled Russian concerts because they thought it was appropriate. And they're receiving, I would say a little bit of criticism for taking that stance, that intense stance by other organizations in the west. So I don't think there's an attempt to cancel Russian culture or get rid of it. And you know, we've always seen that during the first world war, there was a lot of sentiment in France and other countries, even in the U S of, of not doing any German repertoire.

4 (8m 15s):
And of course, more reasonable minds prevailed in those cases where it's like, you know, it's not the culture, it's not the people that were upset with. It's the people in charge that are perpetrating these injustices on another country. And nobody that I know and respect feels that way. Russia has added so much to the world culture. Anybody that wants to cancel it is that's an ill-advised approach.

1 (8m 41s):
And so at the end of the day, what do you hope that changing your concert program is going to achieve? What does it really do?

4 (8m 49s):
I hope that it gets people to think a little more about going on to think past the initial indignance and anger to realize where these things are coming from. So I, I just hope it gets people to think a little more through the idea and the presentation of music, which can kind of help you to let down your guard and open up your mind a little bit and think about, you know, that we all have indignations and fears and senses of injustice.

4 (9m 30s):
And that we have to maybe take a breath first and realize that we're all one, we're all one humanity. Everybody is in the same boat. If you will. And we have to stop shooting holes on the boat.

1 (9m 50s):
Does music ever feel small in the face of all this?

4 (10m 1s):
It doesn't feel small to me ever. It can feel small and insignificant if you don't understand the value and the power that it has. And a great example of this of course, was during the siege of Stalingrad during the second world war, the orchestra, there was playing concerts while bombs were being dropped on the hall and on the city. And so, you know, their sense of how important this culture is not to because it's just entertainment, but because it's important to your quality of life, to your health of your mind, and to the maintenance of your being. I don't think it can be insignificant or small.

4 (10m 43s):
I don't think it has that capacity.

1 (11m 17s):
Support for today's show comes from duck. Duck go. If you're tired of being tracked online, duck, duck go believes it can help. Tracking is a comprehensive problem. There are trackers almost everywhere. Online websites, emails, even the apps on your phone, which means you need a comprehensive solution. DuckDuckGo is more than a private search engine. Duck duck goes privacy app can be used as a browser with private search tracker blocking encryption and email protection built in it's the free, easy button for online privacy, go to duck, duck, go.com to learn more It's today explained Simon Morrison, professor of music and Slavic languages at Princeton.

1 (12m 10s):
Where do you come down on the notion that responsibility should be placed on Russian artists and musicians and even dead composers for Vladimir Putin's war in Ukraine.

5 (12m 22s):
Right now I can understand the resistance on the part of programmers to present a lot of Russian music, Russian artists. I can understand that, especially what we've been hearing about in the last couple of days, this monstrousness, and in terms of actually suddenly everyone is performing Valentin Sylvester, who is an eminent or Ukrainian composer in his eighties. It's like, he's been around for a while now. And we haven't been performing this music till this moment. The music has always been great as always been awesome has always been about deep spiritual matters. And yeah, I understand you want to perform this music now as a gesture of solidarity, but I don't know if Sylvester would be particularly comfortable having his art reduced to, you know, political protest.

5 (13m 8s):
I will say that most artists who come from Russia and are currently saddled with obviously a very unpopular identity, the view of themselves, as you know, as artists first and foremost, they are not nationalists by pedigree. It's just not wired into most people's psyches to think about the relationship between art, a nation and a close in a close way. Most Russian composers try very hard not to be Russian.

1 (13m 36s):
Why, why was that?

5 (13m 38s):
Well, Russian nationalism was a very small slice of 19th century music and Russian composers actually found that to be really limiting. And if it meant using Russian folklore or Russian fairytales and legends as subject matter, their problem was that most of their training was international. Their sources of inspiration were international. And so, although it was fun for awhile to put together, works that dealt with, you know, Russian languages, intonations, and folks up their subjects and so forth. They actually realized they were putting themselves into a kind of bunker and they, you know, want it to be international.

1 (14m 17s):
Do you have a sense of what it's like for artists trying to navigate this now? I mean, there's a lot of symbolism involved here, but also involved are people who really do need to make a living. People who eat based off of, you know, their music, their dancing, what happens to folks like this? When we decide to cancel a part of the culture for a particular period of time, in a particular reason,

5 (14m 41s):
It's, it's worse than a frosty and bargain for a lot of, lot of artists who were pro Putin. Yeah. They're getting a nod out west. And then if you come out and say, actually, you know what I was pro and I regret that, or I've come to a reckoning or recognizing the true nature of that regime, I cannot countenance anymore. Then they get an old back home. So it's a sort of damned if you do damned if you don't situation,

1 (15m 3s):
Does this make sense to you? Do the cancellations make sense to you?

5 (15m 6s):
I can understand it from an emotional and ethical standpoint in terms of what the music is often about. I don't understand it. The notion of helping Putin out by knolling and canceling Russian culture by actually reinforcing his paranoia, his fortress mentality, his sense that they're all out to get us, which is paraded every night on television for everybody over 50 to look at, you know, it's, it's, it's not helpful. And so I, on one hand, I see, yes, I can understand why right now is not the time for Russian ballet. I can see that we should exercise forbearance or reschedule things, but to do it in a kind of like, because you are Russian or because you are a Russian artist, you know, you're tainted or contaminated.

5 (15m 54s):
Somehow I think that that just is just another form of hatred that contributes to what we're dealing with now, which is an absolute, you know, barbaric, you know, seemingly endless monstrosity. That's been unleashed on Ukraine.

1 (16m 10s):
We talked to George saludo in Peoria earlier. He changed his concerts program. It was Russian wonders. Now it is unity with Ukraine. And I wonder, could we do the reverse, could you design a concert for us that would showcase what Russia has to offer, but also illustrate, as you said, that not all Russian artists like being caught up in their countries, terrible politics, what would be on your program at this time in history?

5 (16m 39s):
I would program the 18, 12 overture, Even though that seems to be a counterintuitive example, You know, it's, it's not, Schakowsky his most serious composition by any stretch of the imagination, but the reason I would program it has to do with the fact that it was a celebration of the triumph over invaders. In this case, the Napoleonic invasion that ended in 1812, It ended when Russia, rather than being dominated by another country and an enemy force.

5 (17m 21s):
Well, the citizens of Moscow burned down their own city to prevent it from being taken over absolutely apocalyptic active resistance. There is a lot of music by Russian composers that protests in humanity, the champions, the dispossessed, the alienated, the exiled that protest tyranny The most raw and explicit form of protest I can think of is Shostakovich's 13th symphony in 1962, he put out a very provocative symphony that included a male chorus, and that chorus sang poems by the poet of gaining it to Shanko, who is a dissident port and the first movement in the thing that inspired the rest of the moments was a poem called Babi Yar.

5 (18m 23s):
And the opening line of that piece, that his song is at Babi Yar. There are no monuments.

7 (18m 34s):
Yeah,

5 (18m 42s):
And it was about the senseless barbaric subhuman, slaughter of Jews and Ukrainians and Russians in a ravine outside of Kiev. And he wrote this poem that was published in a literary newspaper in the Soviet union and was quickly a scandal because it referred to the suffering of Jews over the sufferings of the Soviet people. And also implicated to some degree culpability, not massacre,

6 (19m 13s):
Nothing in me shall ever forget International, let it under when the last anti-Semite on earth is better, whatever.

5 (19m 27s):
And this became the first movement of a very brooding pretentious symphony that included another poem called fears. The line is sung that fears are ending in Russia right now. And it's about the fact that in the thirties and in the early fifties, Soviet society was terrorized by its ruler.

6 (19m 55s):
And as I write these lines and I am in to greater haste of times, I have only one fear when writing them the fear of not writing with all my power.

5 (20m 14s):
It's a deeply profound in work. And at the end, the music is very beautiful. And even though the subject matter is grim, it's actually saying that there's, there's always this one place of beauty in the world, which is this heart form I would close with was there <inaudible> and his second opera, which is called <inaudible> or the <inaudible> affair, It's deeply pessimistic about Russia and Russian history and the paradox of Russian history among many is that oftentimes the people have settled for a brutal dictator who at least suggests order.

5 (21m 28s):
He wonders why Russian rulers have gotten away with their monstrousness and horribleness and crimes With impunity. He wonders how it is that these people actually manage to actually control a sixth of the world's landmass. How did they pull it off by what mechanisms did they decide? They could actually destroy other peoples to destroy their own people. And basically says that the people always lose. And ultimately the people at the top always lose because you know, everybody's schemes and schemes and schemes that ultimately everybody loses.

5 (22m 14s):
All of these pieces protest, the kind of Russia we have today, All of these composers wanted Russia to engage in a dialogue with history in general, and to stand for values that you consider to be not simply timeless, but fundamentally international, the things that connect us all, None of these composers wanted Russia to be a particularly strong nation. It's grim, it's art. That's created under pressure.

5 (22m 56s):
It's art that somehow flourished despite censorship and repression and limitations and living in a time when very little was possible artistically, but everything was taken with deadly seriousness and it challenged those repressive circumstances.

1 (23m 41s):
Today's show was produced by Victoria Kimberlin. It was edited by Matthew collect and engineered by a FEMA Shapiro. It was fact-checked by Laura Bullard. The rest of our team includes Halima Shaw will read Huddy, Milwaukee and miles. Brian and Sean Ramos from our supervising producer is Amina El Sati Box's VP of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and Noah Hassenfeld inspiration for today's show came from a story that reporter Hannah Alani did for WCBU Peoria public radio. We are now airing on WCBU and on other public radio stations. Thanks to our distribution partners at w NYC today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network.