0 (0s):
Support for the shutter day comes from the almond board of California. While you were maybe fighting election anxiety and trying to stay focused on zoom calls, California almond farmers were busy growing 80% of the world's almonds. And while they've reduced the water you use to grow each almond by 33% over the past two decades, they're not stopping they're. All men farmers have committed to an additional 20% reduction by 2025 to help preserve resources for future generations. To learn more about the responsible practices almond farmers use to grow each nutritious almond head to almonds, sustainability.org, that's Allmand sustainability.org.

0 (44s):
The former president second impeachment trial begins this week. That's the thing that's never happened before. There's never been a second impeachment trial of the President and there's never been an impeachment trial of a president. Who's no longer in office. Even after leaving office. The former president is pulling unprecedented moments out of his back. We've talked plenty about the insurrection on the show, but in case you missed it, The former president had been vilified in the media since before he was elected. Then he spent much of 2020 trying to de-legitimized Joe Biden, mail-in voting and American election integrity itself on election 19 immediately cast doubt on the results of the few days later, major media organizations called the election for Joe Biden and the outgoing president ramped up his claims that the whole thing was stolen.

0 (1m 32s):
Rudy Giuliani got involved. The loser and his legal team started bullying States into throwing out votes. There were dozens of legal challenges. He lost basically all of them. He promoted a few rallies in DC, both turned violent. That's foreshadowing. All of the States certify their results of the Supreme court wants no part of any of the challenges. Then in a final attempt to turn the tide, the biggest loser promotes one last rally. One last speech in DC. The day Congress was set to certify the election. This one seemed pointed at his own vice president, Mike Pence, and attempt to try and get him to somehow throw out the election a thing Penn's can do, but that didn't stop thousands of die, hard mag of Brose and proud boys and the neo-Nazis and Q types from showing up and storming the Capitol with weapons and feces and Confederate flags and plastic ties intended for politicians.

0 (2m 25s):
They never found people died. The story of the tradition of the peaceful transfer of power in America came to an end and at the house hearing last week of former Homeland security official warned Congress that right wing extremist groups, not only viewed the whole thing as a victory, but as an instance,

1 (2m 43s):
Sadly, I do believe that we will be fighting domestic tourism that has its roots in inspiration points from January six, four, the next 10 to 20 years.

0 (2m 55s):
So the question now is will the former president be convicted unless

2 (3m 0s):
17 Republican senators decide to defy the opinions of the majority of Republican voters around the country. Trump is going to escape conviction again. And the early signs are that that is exactly what will happen, that, that he will be acquitted again, Andrew Prokop politics. Vox, that's not to say that there won't be any consequences for the people who actually physically stormed the Capitol. Many of them have been arrested and, and investigations and, and court cases are moving forward on that. But as far as the guy who was trying to egg them on the now former president Trump, he looks likely to get off scot-free.

2 (3m 51s):
We'll talk about the consequences for the insurrectionists lean in the show, but let's start with the ringleader. The house impeachment managers filed a brief last week, laying up their case. What did it say? So the house impeach Trump on one count

3 (4m 5s):
Incitement of insurrection in the months proceeding the joint session, President Trump repeatedly issued false statements, asserting that the presidential election results were the product of widespread fraud and should not be accepted by the American people or certified by state or federal officials.

2 (4m 24s):
They focus on Trump's speech.

3 (4m 26s):
He also willfully made statements that in context, encouraged and foreseeably resulted in lawless action at the Capitol such as we fight like hell. And if you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore.

2 (4m 40s):
They also focus on how as the mob was starting to attack the Capitol Trump condemned vice president, Mike Pence for refusing to basically try and interfere with the vote counting process and asserting this power that he could throw out certain electoral votes that he didn't like. And then they're also focusing on the federal response that Trump was slow to order action, to reign in the mob and to himself speak out and condemn their action.

3 (5m 11s):
And Donald John Trump, thus warrants, impeachment and trial removal from office and disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor trust or profit under the United States

2 (5m 26s):
And the president's legal team, including the lawyer who defended Roger Stone and the prosecutor who declined to charge bill Cosby for sex crimes filed a response this morning on behalf of the former president, what does it say so far? They have not gone so far as to say that Trump was write that the election was stolen from him. There is a, a very unique sentence in one document that Trump's legal team filed. It reads insufficient

3 (5m 56s):
Evidence exists upon which a reasonable

4 (5m 58s):
Jury could conclude that the forthwith President statements were accurate or not. And he therefore denies. They were false.

2 (6m 7s):
What they're, they're not saying Trump statements about Democrats stealing the election from him are true. They're just claiming that there's not enough evidence to persuade a reasonable jurist, that the claims are false. And so therefore he denies that they are false. So this is just like a, a somewhat ridiculous way to avoid outright stating whether Trump's lies about the election are in fact lies or not.

0 (6m 36s):
And therefore he was justified in encouraging a attempted coup on the federal government.

2 (6m 43s):
Well, so they have more specific defenses of Trump's conduct though. They often tend to be factually dubious for one, they claim that Trump had no intention of interfering with Congress's count of the electoral votes that basically, you know, he gave the speech, he talked about being tough and fighting like, hell, but that was basically rhetoric. He didn't really want them to go as far as they did. It seems like vintage Trump. Another argument they've made is that he was exercising his first amendment, right? To express his belief that the election results were suspect like he wasn't inciting a mob. He was just stating his opinion.

2 (7m 23s):
And, and it doesn't the constitution give him the right to do that. But when it comes to the jurors, in this case, who are the members of the us Senate, 50 of whom are Republicans, the argument that Trump's team is presented, that's been the most successful so far. It doesn't have to do with these facts at all. It's simply an argument that the trial itself is unconstitutional because Trump is a former president and they claim a former president is not subject to an impeachment trial.

0 (7m 56s):
Okay. And this is tricky, right? Because there is no precedent here for conducting an impeachment trial of a former president.

2 (8m 6s):
Yes, no former president has ever been impeached or tried. And the reading, the plain text of the constitution, it is not specifically clear on whether that can happen. Now, the Democrats point out that though impeachment does seem to be a punishment for federal officials. There are two punishments for impeachment laid out as possibilities. One is that the official will be removed from office, which is obviously irrelevant because that has already happened for Trump. The second though, is that the official could be banned from holding future office.

2 (8m 50s):
And that is really what this trial is all about. And, and they argue that that punishment would apply to former officials. And also if Congress intended to give a former official that punishment, wouldn't they be able to just, you know, if they want it to avoid it, if they saw it coming, couldn't they just resign and then run for office. Again, it seems like a bit of a loophole. The house Democrats also point to some precedent involving a cabinet official, the secretary of war under Ulysses S grants, administration, William Belknap. He was in the process of being impeached by the house.

2 (9m 33s):
When he resigned just before the impeachment passed, then the Senate went ahead and held the trial. Anyway, they ended up acquitting him, but they decided that they did have the right to hold a trial for a former official. And, you know, if this thing really does advance and, and they did try to ban Trump from holding future federal office, this is the kind of thing that the Supreme court might end up deciding to weigh in on, because it is a clear ambiguity in the constitution. Now the court could punt and leave the issue just to Congress to resolve, but they could also decide to resolve it themselves.

0 (10m 13s):
Yeah. The Supreme court could weigh in Democrats believe they have from constitutional footing and Republicans don't see it.

2 (10m 21s):
It seems unlikely to me that Republican senators are, are truly convinced by the merits of this constitutional argument. Instead, what seems likely as they were looking for an excuse to get out of this problem and to wash their hands at the whole matter. And if they didn't have that, they would find another excuse. But there was an early test to vote on this question already. And 45 out of the 50 Republican senators voted against cutting off debate on an assertion that the trial was unconstitutional. So they didn't quite all say that we fully believed this is unconstitutional, but they signaled that they are sympathetic to this argument.

2 (11m 4s):
And, and because conviction at an impeachment trial takes two thirds of the Senate that 67 votes. So you need 17 Republicans to go along, to make it happen. And if all Republicans except five are already leaning toward this, Hey, maybe this trial is unconstitutional thing. It seems pretty unlikely that conviction is going to happen.

0 (11m 28s):
And you know, and it wants, it feels like this sort of, I rolly, of course, there won't be consequences for the former president who has faced very few consequences and four years of tumult and breaking of norms and even laws. But I mean, at the same time, it's, it's still sort of shocking that a month ago there was an attempted coup on the capital and an insurrection that left now several people dead and has

5 (11m 54s):
Scarred the peaceful transfer of power in this country. Forevermore, will there be no consequences for the President because of it Andrew does anything matter? Andrew

2 (12m 6s):
And my opinion is that things do matter when it comes to the eternal question of will elected Republicans impose actual consequences on Donald Trump for bad behavior. I think the answer to that has often been know, and it may well continue to be no, but he has faced reputational consequences. He lost his Twitter account. Corporate donors have been shying away from people involved in this before it happened. You know, he was all set to announce. He was going to run again in 2024. And we haven't heard anything about that.

2 (12m 47s):
It sort of took the bloom off that Rose, but of course, you know, it's a long time between now and the 2024 election. And he remains popular among Republican voters. And if the Senate Republicans decide to allow him to run again, if they quit him at this impeachment trial, it's entirely possible that he could make a comeback and we will be dealing with all of these issues again in 2024 and a quarter

1 (13m 24s):
After the break, this is advertiser content

5 (13m 45s):
Brought to you by AAA insurance. But whenever you are experiencing fear, cortisol is our stress. Hormone is very prevalent and the brain and your amygdala, which lives in your limbic system, it is like fire red. And it's saying we are in danger. We are in danger. Get away. That's psychologist, Dr. Chilean small. And no, she's not talking about cliff diving or riding a roller coaster. We're actually talking about something much more normal. Sometimes the confusing thing about our brain is the threat can be non-existent. It can be a perceived threat of, Oh my God, they didn't text me back. Yeah. This is just your brain on love.

1 (14m 24s):
<inaudible>

5 (14m 33s):
There is so much going on when you are falling in love. You then have hormones such as oxytocin and oxytocin really is your primary trust hormone in the brain falling in love. It looks a lot like falling in trust and that doesn't just feel good. It makes us more resilient. Those who have higher levels of trust are willing to take a greater level of risk. The science also says we can build trust like a muscle. So the more we practice it, the more likely we are to take the risks. We've always wanted to take like falling in love or buying a house or our dream car, making the leap takes trust. That's why people like you have turned to AAA insurance. One of the most trusted brands in America to protect life's greatest leaps for over a hundred years, to learn more at aaa.com/insurance I'm Shereen Ghafari and I'm Alex Kantrowitz.

5 (15m 22s):
We're hosting the new season of the land of the giants. The podcast that explores the biggest tech companies of our time. This season we're tackling the most powerful Google. Google is the gateway to the internet for billions of people. Every decision Google makes about its products can change how we navigate the world and how we understand it. The land of the giants, the Google empire from Bree code and the Vox media podcast network. When's their first episode. Let me Google that for you. Our series begins on Tuesday, February 16th, subscribe for free on Spotify, Apple podcast or wherever you listen.

0 (16m 4s):
Today Explained I'm Sean ramen is from the former president may have incited a riot, but despite promising to show up, he went back to the white house to watch it on TV. And while he might get to play a get out of jail free card, it's not looking so good for the mag of mob who ate up his lies. Thousands showed up at the Capitol hundreds, broke in to the building. And so far something like 200 of them are facing charges. We got in touch with Alan Rosenstein to find out what kinds of charges. He's a law professor at the university of Minnesota who used to be an attorney in the department of justice.

6 (16m 36s):
So it depends almost everyone is being charged, at least with trespassing on the Capitol, because that's a pretty straightforward charge to bring some individuals brought weapons in to the Capitol and they're being charged with weapons, offenses. Some people engaged in violent activity, assault on police officers. They're being charged with that. A and then a small number of the planners are being charged with conspiracy for not just engaging in the, a riot, but actually playing a planning role in that

0 (17m 4s):
Trespassing feels very much like, you know, me and my friends hopped the fence to hang out and our high school bleachers on a Friday night. Whereas conspiracy feels a lot more like me and my friends got together and planned to invade a government building, but then there's something no one's been charged with yet, but could be charged with later, depending on how these investigations go, right. That's called seditious conspiracy, which feels like, you know, me and my friends tried to undo the will of the people. Tell me about that charge.

6 (17m 35s):
So it is a pretty old charge. The statute criminalizing seditious conspiracy was first enacted after the civil war. And it criminalizes working with one or more people to overthrow put down or destroy by force the government or the United States or to levy war against them, or to oppose by force the authority thereof or by force to prevent hinder or delay the execution of any Law of the United States. So in other words, it was intended when the statute was enacted to apply to the members of the Confederacy who were at the time engaged in a civil war against the United States and through its history.

6 (18m 17s):
It's been used to prosecute individuals who attack the foundations of us government. So a famous example was in the 1950s, several Puerto Rican nationalists walked in to the capital and started shooting.

7 (18m 35s):
Estimates are the numbers of shots fired range from 15 to 30. And each bullet hole found is a grim reminder to those who were present of the terrible surprise attack. And they did so in part, because they were motivated by the cause of Puerto Rican acids. So the gun wielders and to their accomplices goes to the evil distinction of having perpetrated a criminal outrage, all of the most unique in America's history.

6 (19m 2s):
So Disha conspiracy charges were brought against those individuals. So that's the sort of conduct that fits most directly under this addition is conspiracy statute. Hmm.

8 (19m 12s):
How hard is it to prosecute someone with additions?

6 (19m 15s):
It's not easy I'm so the last time the department of justice tried, this was in 2012 against a Illinois sort of Christian militia group called the <inaudible>.

8 (19m 26s):
According to the indictment, the hutaree has had an elaborate plan to ambush and kill a member of law enforcement, Loring them to their death with a fake nine one, one call or a traffic stop. Then the group would use deadly explosive devices to kill dozens more at the officer's funeral.

6 (19m 42s):
So as to provoke a response from the government, that in the eyes of these militia members was going to lead to some sort of civil war and the overthrow of the us government. And because that was the long-term plan, the government brought these seditious conspiracy charges. The judge, in that case, throughout this, the dishes conspiracy charges, because he said, look, these people want you to commit crimes. They want me to kill the police officer. That's serious. That's terrible. They should be prosecuted for that, but there's no indication that they were trying to attack the government of the United States itself. So I think that's the key to a seditious conspiracy charge. It's attacking the core functions of the government.

6 (20m 22s):
In this case, on the one hand, you can question the seriousness of these individuals. It it's the, the atmosphere inside the Capitol often seemed more like a carnival than like an insurrection. And these people weren't trying to be secret about it. They were flaunting this on social media. So there's a tendency to dismiss. This is kind of amateur hour. On the other hand, the goal at least of several of the insurrectionists was to stop the certification of electoral college vote, which is the core of the peaceful transfer of power, which is fundamental to American democracy. So I do think that for those who came down to DC and worked with others in order to stop the vote by force, I do think seditious conspiracy charges would fit pretty naturally.

6 (21m 9s):
And the consequences for seditious conspiracy are quite serious. It has a maximum penalty of 20 years in jail.

0 (21m 15s):
It feels like part of what the government is grappling with here, especially in the case of the former president, but perhaps in this case too, is that something like this has just never happened before? So there isn't a lot of legal precedent on how to proceed. Does that mean that the government might err on the side of not prosecuting the insurrectionists as firmly as it could.

6 (21m 41s):
It's possible. I assure you that right now in DOJ, there are a lot of memos flying around and a lot of discussions about Justice topic. I think there are a couple of concerns for, for DOJ and, and that might explain why we're not seeing these charges brought immediately. One is you have a Law huge number of people. And so just coordinating all of these charges across so many individuals, when you have these merge investigations is difficult, it just takes time to do it well. In addition, you have a lot of cases potentially across the country and you want the legal theories that the government is putting forward and all of these cases to be consistent. And so that requires a lot of coordination. So some of the delay is just because these are very complex investigations and it just takes time to do them to do the well.

6 (22m 25s):
And there's not, frankly, I think a huge premium on getting this done tomorrow versus next month versus six months from now, the criminal justice process takes time, but that's how long it takes to do things. Right? I think another issue is that some of these prosecutions are going to be set up to then investigate additional individuals, right? So the most straightforward prosecutions are of those who were actually at the Capitol on January 6th. But of course, those people don't exist in a vacuum. You have the individuals who spoke at the quote unquote, stop the steel rally. And there's a lot of interesting questions about what coordination they may have had with the people actually the Capitol you have just other general people across the country, right? Do you have other members of the proud boys or the oath keepers or other these groups?

6 (23m 8s):
And so again, these investigators will all have to be coordinated. And then I think the final reason, I think this is something really important is that seditious conspiracy is potentially a very, very blunt instrument. And if you look at the language, it's actually very, very broad. So the language doesn't just cover waging war against the United States insurrection against the United States, it actually covers interfering with the execution of any Law, but that's enormously broad. And we actually saw a potential pitfall of this back in September, when then the deputy attorney general Jeff Rosen released this email and this memo to prosecutors around the country saying, Hey, as you're considering charges against those who engaged in riots that were connected to the black lives matter protests over the summer, you should consider bringing seditious conspiracy charges, right?

6 (23m 55s):
Especially for those who let's say attacked police stations or attack federal facilities. Now at the time, this was criticized very harshly because we don't want to necessarily bring seditious conspiracy charges against individuals, even those who committed crimes when they were connected with racial justice protests. But the problem is the statute doesn't give us any obvious way of distinguishing between all the different cases. So I think part of what DOJ is grappling with is how does it bring seditious conspiracy charges in this case, while still limiting the ability of a future administration to use that as precedent to bring seditious conspiracy charges in a much broader set of circumstances, including ones where we're not comfortable doing that.

6 (24m 40s):
And that is a difficult question. It can take a lot of thinking on DOJ is part.

0 (24m 44s):
I imagine part of the motivation is saying you can't just walk into the Capitol destroy this sacred building, interrupt an action of the federal government to certify an election no less and get away with it. And yet it's interesting just looking at the video and, and, and reading about these sort of reflections on what happened on January 6th, police Capitol police, national guardsman. They let these people walk out. Is it too late? Did they already get away with it? I mean,

6 (25m 17s):
On the one hand, no, they obviously didn't because the vote was delayed a few hours, then it started up again and the election was certified and a lot of these people are going to jail. On the other hand, they made an amazing statement. It was a, an act of terror, frankly, I think no less spectacular in some regards than the nine 11. So I'm sure they have inspired a whole generation of right-wing white nationalist militia groups for many years to come. And I think what I found particularly disturbing was that even after the riot, so many Republicans in Congress voted to throw out valid votes in the 2020 election, right?

6 (26m 1s):
Even after members of the Republican party had tangible, I mean the most visceral, tangible evidence of the danger of their position, they still decided to go along with the view of those who had just stormed their building. And I think that fact means that no matter how many of these writers go to jail, January 6th will always be viewed in some quarters as a victory because it showed that a large amount of the American public and shockingly, a huge amount of the American political elite supports views and tactics that just six months ago, I think it would've been thought completely inconceivable in the United Look at the end of the day, if we don't want our politicians to support sedition, we have to not vote for politicians who support sedition.

6 (26m 58s):
And the sad fact of the matter is although president Trump's behavior between the election and inauguration was I think worse than most of us anticipated. It wasn't some ways quite predictable. It was within the bounds of what we should have expected and have what the voters should have expected. And although president Trump lost the election, he wasn't wiped out. There's still millions and tens of millions of Americans who knowing his antidemocratic behavior, who knowing that president Trump refused multiple times to promise to accept the results of the election. They voted for him and they vote for the Republicans who support him. Now that doesn't mean that the criminal process is worthless.

6 (27m 40s):
It doesn't mean you shouldn't bring citizens, conspiracy charges where we should. That doesn't mean it's not useful to deter, to set precedent, to express the condemnation we have of this behavior, but we can't expect the criminal process of the department of justice to save us from ourselves. At the end of the day, society gets the government. It deserves at least in a democracy. And so there's no substitute if you're horrified by this conduct to not vote for it. And to try to convince your friends and your neighbors to also not vote for it.