0 (1s):
Not long ago Reporter, Sonya Paul was working on a story about Caste discrimination in California. Caste is a tradition that comes from India. It's a hereditary identity where some people are at the top of society and some are at the bottom. Anyway, Sonya asked a source, have you ever experienced Caste discrimination here in the US

1 (21s):
Here?

2 (22s):
So it happens all the time.

1 (24s):
What's the one that like maybe is most outrageous or hurts the most?

2 (30s):
The handshake.

1 (31s):
What is the handshake?

2 (33s):
I run into this gentleman. We shake hands. He's holding a tissue in his hand, right where he states his cast. Then he says, you have to hold a tissue. You never know who you're shaking hands with. I said, really? I am that untouchable.

0 (51s):
I'm that untouchable. Now the state of California wants to make this cast discrimination illegal. That's Coming up. On today

Criminal (58s):
explained. I went to the precinct and I said, look, I wanted to talk about a murder that I think happened In 1993. Travell Coleman shot a man but was never a suspect. He kept the secret. For years and years. I've heard of people turning themselves in, but it's usually soon thereafter the crime. I've never experienced anything like someone coming forward 17 years after the fact. So no, this is absolutely extraordinary Here. Traves story on the latest episode of Criminal. Listen, wherever you get your podcasts,

0 (1m 48s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King Reporter Sonya Paul has been covering cast in the United States for the past several years, and she recently reported and hosted A B B C documentary called The Hidden Cast Codes in Silicon Valley. We called Sonia to talk about this bill that California's governor Gavin Newsom is about to sign into law. This law would ban cast discrimination in workplaces, houses, and schools. So I started by asking Sonia to explain what cast is.

7 (2m 16s):
In its most basic sense, cast is a social identity that is determined by your family. There are people at the top and there are people at the bottom. At the top of this system is a group of people known as Brahmins, and at the bottom, technically outside the Caste system, they are outcast. Are the dts.

0 (2m 39s):
What kind of jobs do DTSs have? Historically?

7 (2m 41s):
Yes, historically they took on jobs like manual scavenging, which is basically cleaning human excrement or street sweeping. Basically all the jobs that were deemed to be unclean or impure.

0 (2m 55s):
I associate Caste with India. Is this purely an Indian thing?

7 (3m 1s):
No, and this is a common misunderstanding. Cass was first mentioned in ancient Hindu scripture, but over time it permeated other religions and it exists throughout South Asia. So you would also find it say in Nepal, Bangladesh, SSRI Lanka, and in parts of the world where you would have South Asian diasporas.

0 (3m 25s):
You've spoken to a lot of people who have talked about experiencing Caste discrimination in your reporting. What do they tell you? What does Caste discrimination look like?

7 (3m 36s):
So people can tell Cass often based on last name or a person's ancestral village or what their families historically did for a living, right? So in the B B C documentary, I reported actually there was a tech worker who, you know, received very excellent performance evaluations throughout his time at a tech company, which is a well-known tech company here in the United States. And afterward he had a manager switch and the new manager also Indian Origin, had asked about the pronunciation of his last name.

8 (4m 14s):
Hey, your last name spelled P I L L I. Pii. And is it PII or pii? PII in South India is a affluent Caste last name and PII in our native language in only the majority of Dali communities have that last name.

7 (4m 38s):
And afterward he received like the lowest performance appraisals he's ever received.

8 (4m 45s):
I have been given a zero putting me in not met category to my job's responsibility

7 (4m 54s):
And he actually went to his company. but they determined that no Caste discrimination had occurred. Of course at the time there was no policy in place about that. But if you were to think about that situation, it sounded like there was maybe unconscious bias or a perception that this person wasn't working up to par once. You know their Caste background. So another dimension of this is that many people who are from these Deit communities are marginalized Caste backgrounds actually hide their identities. So I spoke with a man, Dr. Singh, he's actually one of the most vocal supporters of the cast bill now.

7 (5m 37s):
And he told me about when he was applying for residency, he actually had somebody who was in a position of power to help that process. Literally ask him his cast background.

9 (5m 50s):
He did ask me, oh, do you belong to this cast upper Caste?

7 (5m 55s):
And he knew that person was from a dominant cast background

9 (5m 58s):
That was kinda dumb folded at that time. What should I answer? 'cause if I say yes, then it might make feel him good. If I say it different, then his response might change.

7 (6m 11s):
And so Dr. Singh basically lied and said he was of the same background as well because he didn't wanna risk revealing his actual Caste identity, And that person not wanting to help him out in the same manner anymore.

0 (6m 28s):
Where did the idea of legally outlying Caste discrimination come from? How did this get started?

7 (6m 35s):
This understanding of outlying Cass in legal terms has been going around for a long time, right? But the most prominent example I think came in 2020 in the summer of 2020. In the middle of the protest, after the murder of George Floyd News broke of a lawsuit against Cisco, which is a multinational company based in Silicon Valley. It's headquartered in San Jose.

10 (7m 0s):
The state of California sued Cisco systems on behalf of a dollar engineer just like Cornelius on an all Indian work team. The lawsuit claims that when the engineer's dominant Caste bosses found out his cast, they discriminated against him and then retaliated when he complained to HR

7 (7m 16s):
Alleging that two managers had discriminated against a person because he's duit. And so that lawsuit was against the managers, but also against Cisco, the company itself. And after the Cisco lawsuit, we saw kind of a wave of other colleges and universities adding Caste as a protected category. The California Democratic Party added Caste as a protected category. And then in February of this year, Seattle became the first American city to ban Caste discrimination. This will

11 (7m 47s):
Be a systemic legal way to stop this from growing in Seattle.

7 (7m 52s):
And just recently, Fresno became the second city and first city in California to do just the same. Fresno

12 (7m 58s):
Authorities officially marked cast and indigeneity as two protected categories in Fresno municipal code on Friday after city council members unanimously voted to do so.

0 (8m 8s):
The California bill has opponents who are the opponents who opposes this?

7 (8m 13s):
So the most vocal opposition to the California bill comes from some Hindu groups and individuals who say that naming cast in the law, even if it's a subset of ancestry, just the fact that you're saying the word Caste, it's basically going to malign Hindus because of the popular understanding between Caste and Hinduism. And they are calling for Gavin Newsom to veto the bill.

13 (8m 36s):
I would just ask, why is anybody supporting a racist law like SB 4 0 3, which presumes that a community is guilty until they can prove themselves innocent.

14 (8m 48s):
So bottom line is we are stereotyped over this term too much already, and then you add this law on top of it, it just, you know, amplifies that. And that's not fair.

0 (8m 60s):
I would assume the people who are opposing this law to ban discrimination are upper cast. Is that fair?

7 (9m 7s):
Yes, I think that's fair, especially because the vast majority of Indian Americans have historically come from these dominant Caste communities. And, that has to do with the fact that, you know, post 1965, the US wanted a lot of skilled workers. The people who had the resources to make it over here and be selected by US immigration policy were people from dominant Caste backgrounds. So earlier this year, California had a bunch of hearings about the bill, and I spoke with a lot of the opposition, many of whom just said like Caste is not relevant. There are also people that I spoke with who blatantly feel that this is an attack on Hinduism And, that there's no way that you can separate the definition of Caste from Hinduism and in the

15 (9m 55s):
US also no one ask each other, which cast you are. None of us know, which is the other Indian, which cast they belong to. And we don't care if you are or we we all Indians and we all go to Temple.

0 (10m 7s):
Why do you think we're seeing these attempts at legislation concentrated on the West Coast and not in other places with big Indian American or South Asian populations like New York or Illinois?

7 (10m 18s):
I think a lot of that has to do with how many of the initial complaints that came out about Caste discrimination in the wake of the Cisco lawsuit came from tech companies. So Seattle is a major tech hub. California with Silicon Valley is a major tech hub and it also has to do with where do you have the will of lawmakers to introduce such legislation? So in Seattle it was Shama Swan who is a socialist and Indian American who introduced this bill in California, it was Senator Aisha Wahab, who is also progressive. So it's like, where are these people who are kind of making waves and talking about Caste discrimination, a where are their lawmakers paying attention and wanting to do something about it?

0 (11m 4s):
You've talked to people who really want these anti cast discrimination laws passed. What do they imagine will happen once this becomes law? What gets better for them?

7 (11m 16s):
I mean, two things are happening simultaneously. One is that people are talking about Caste discrimination. Two is you actually see people from these marginalized Caste backgrounds coming out and asserting themselves, you know, they're not hiding their identities anymore. And so a built to ban Caste discrimination only does so much in the workplace and housing and education and so on and so forth. But the hope is that once you put it into the law, a, you assert this exists. B, you assert that you're not going to tolerate it anymore. And so it trickles down from the law And that healing can begin when they feel comfortable asserting their identities in the public.

7 (11m 59s):
Right? So there's a lot going on here, especially given the fact that cast atrocities continue to this day in South Asia. What can happen here in California that can sort of set the motion for the rest of the world to understand this pain?

0 (12m 15s):
Sonya Paul is a journalist in California who covers Caste Coming up How Caste has shaped Indian politics, including Entrenching the authoritarian Prime minister Nora Modi.

The Pitch from Vox Media (12m 46s):
I am Josh Muccio, host of the Pitch from Vox Media. People describe the pitch as the Antis shark tank. And I actually agree, take everything you think you know about venture capital startups and fundraising and throw it out because on my show you'll hear the true story of how these deals get done on our upcoming season. You'll hear legendary investors like Charles Hudson and Elizabeth Yin invest over a million dollars in the startups featured on our show. And let me be clear, none of this is staged. Each episode of the pitch features real entrepreneurs pitching real investors for real money. Then we go the extra mile to tell the true story of what happens after everyone shakes hands and walks out of the room. Listen to season 10 of the Pitch podcast to learn from the smartest investors and founders in the world. New episodes drop on Wednesdays. Follow the pitch for free wherever you listen.

10 (13m 45s):
So we've got three potential mysteries. Mystery one,

16 (13m 52s):
I think there's a fourth mystery.

10 (13m 53s):
Where is that sound coming from? You all hear it Two, right? So mystery one, no one answered my que. You hear it two, right? I dunno what you're talking about. Oh God, not again.

Unexplainable podcast (14m 8s):
This week on unexplainable comedian Wyatt AK plays our game show, unexplainable or not, he's gotta guess which of these mysteries has actually been solved and he gets to do it with the help of a packed live audience. Wow, that's really helpful, huh? Yeah, yeah, That's, that's, I don't know how people do it on the price is right To hear why it do it on unexplainable or not follow unexplainable for new episodes every Wednesday.

17 (14m 45s):
AB you're listening to today

18 (14m 51s):
Explained,

0 (14m 53s):
I'm Noel King. So we called up Ananya Chakravarti, a professor of history at Georgetown because she has this really interesting argument. She says, Caste is not a relic, it is affecting Indian politics. Bigly Caste discrimination is illegal in India now, but when it was made illegal, there was a violent backlash. And that backlash Ananya says helped propel the authoritarian ra Modi into power. So the story starts when India outlaws cast discrimination, which was so

18 (15m 25s):
It right after independence actually. So it, it was banned in 1948 and then that impulse was then enshrined in our constitution. I don't wanna paint this kind of rosy picture of like we became independent, we banned cast, and then everything was great cast, if anything receded into the private sphere. To some extent, we

19 (15m 45s):
Are actually RAs lower cast to be specific. Sir, we people you can't mention that we are not supposed to mention. No, no. That applies to you, sir. Yes, but I can mention it,

18 (15m 52s):
Sir. Even though you know I come from a family that was politically progressive in many ways, Caste was absolutely a background noise of our private life discussions of who in the family had married out of Caste, you know, and sort of being so young that it was the adults who were talking amongst themselves. But it's not that the attitudes of the social mores around Caste disappeared precisely because it's perpetuated through practices like marriage, you know, which is very much part of how family and and social life is organized.

20 (16m 28s):
He said that he wanted Braman and I was shocked. He doesn't know anything about Braman and he's not practicing. And why? Why do he want the Braman girl

18 (16m 38s):
Cast? In many ways, especially for families like mine, which were upper cast and urban, it receded into the realm of the private, but never died In the late 1970s. There was a really pivotal moment, which was the promulgation of a commission called the Mundle Commission that was tasked with studying what other communities beyond those already recognized in the constitution should have access to some kind of legal redress for historical Caste discrimination. And the Mundell Commission comes back and you know, shows that actually many communities, which in legal parlance in India are referred to as other backward cast, have actually experienced the ill effects and the historical ill effects of being lower Caste, even if they weren't technically say untouchable.

18 (17m 31s):
Right? And this of course constitutes the majority of the country.

0 (17m 35s):
So if you are in a lower Caste, the Caste system has been bad for you. That seems pretty self-evident. What does it say about the upper casts?

18 (17m 46s):
The bundle commission's findings were shocking. I, I mean, for example, Brahmins were massively overrepresented in India's parliament. In the higher education sector, in the higher reaches of business,

21 (18m 1s):
All the 1 21 leadership positions in India's top newsrooms are held by dominant cast. 93% of board members of Indian corporates are upper Caste. 41% of the country's total wealth is owned by upper Caste Hindus.

0 (18m 18s):
What happens after that, after the realization that Brahmans dominate everything,

18 (18m 22s):
The government then puts aside a certain number of seats to government jobs and, and education for lower cast. Now this is not just the untouchable, we're talking about lower cast, and this is the implementation that leads to this kind of violent backlash.

0 (18m 40s):
So the lower casts are now getting better treatment and there's a backlash from the upper cast. How does that affect Indian politics?

18 (18m 49s):
There was a old party that represented the sort of Hindu nationalists that was part of the coalition of the ruling party that had been in charge of the government at the time that the Mandel commission report was put together. And as part of the backlash around this report, this party kind of splits off and becomes what is today known as the party, the agenda party, which is the ruling party of India, the B J P and its Prime Minister Modi's party. We

22 (19m 17s):
ISTs, be honest, and we,

18 (19m 25s):
The B J P is the political wing of the R S Ss, which stands for tria sw or the National Volunteer Organization is an Indian Hindu nationalist paramilitary organization, which were fashioned along the lines of the Italian fascists and had strong ties to them

23 (19m 45s):
In 1992 in the city of Ria, when the RSS joined other right-wing Hindu groups to demolish the historic barri maja, the mosque's destruction sparked Hindu Muslim communal writing that killed some 2000 people.

18 (20m 0s):
You see this kind of massive rise in the electoral popularity of the B J P. And a lot of that has to do with the consolidation of the upper cast in many ways as its real base. The R Ss ss its base has traditionally been the Brahmans. So what really ends up becoming the sort of real turning point after the Mandel commission report is when it was finally implemented in 1990 and when it was implemented, there were mass protests.

24 (20m 32s):
Soon after the Mandel recommendations were implemented, Raji co ami, a student of Delhi University, set himself on fire sustaining 50% burns,

18 (20m 43s):
Including very famously a case of one Brahman student activist who tried to emulate himself. He

24 (20m 51s):
Survived the emulation bit, but the spark had been ignited in cities and towns near Delhi. A number of youths set themselves on fire.

18 (20m 59s):
This sort of backlash is kind of, you know, shown by dramatic act of political activism throughout the 1990s. You see these various upper Caste groups, I mean, and including really violent militias that organize as a way to kind of reinforce the Caste system against what they would consider these uppity, lower Caste that are sort of agitating for greater access to education and better jobs, et cetera.

25 (21m 27s):
Hundreds of villages have been butchered by a private upper cast army. They're being killed not for what they've done, but for who they are.

0 (21m 36s):
The report comes out, it says the lower cast have suffered as a result of Caste discrimination. We are gonna have to change some things. And then as a result of that report, the B J P, this political party starts to get a lot of support. The B J P now leads India, this is Prime Minister Narendra Modi's party. Where does his government stand on Caste?

18 (22m 1s):
So the ruling party in India has to kind of walk a fine line because of course the upper cast who form its base are demographically a minority. So this is really the sort of dilemma that Caste poses to the ruling party because on the one hand, their ideologies and their practices are absolutely beholden to Brahmans and Brahmanism, I would say. And on the other, the consolidation of their base and their vision of Indian nationalism requires the consolidation of the category of the Hindu, which of course means that they cannot allow the idea of Caste to tear apart that category.

0 (22m 45s):
Are people in India paying attention to these anti Caste discrimination bills in the US, which, which are aimed at protecting the historically marginalized lower cast?

18 (22m 55s):
Oh, absolutely.

17 (22m 57s):
We shift our focus to Seattle, a city in the American state of Washington, a city which is being hailed for banning Caste based discrimination. The decision in Seattle is being called controversial. Even Hindu phobic and Indian origin Senator is complaining and the Indian community is not happy.

18 (23m 14s):
This is in many, many ways an absolutely globalized fight. And we're not just talking about sort of echoes of arguments that are made in India that show up here, right. But we're talking about like actual, you know, ties between different groups here as well as in India.

0 (23m 32s):
Why do you think these bills are being introduced in the United States today? Why do you think they're becoming law?

18 (23m 39s):
The flows of Indian immigration since the 1990s, particularly in areas like tech where you have had a big flow of highly educated Indians and where frankly from my own observations, having lived in some of these communities, I can absolutely say that, you know, they have rich trenched and practice cast. So for example, you know, I have heard school children talk without, you know, any self-reflection about the fact that they're pure vegetarians because they're brahmins. I see cast pride, personalized license plates on cars everywhere, which, you know, to, to me at least looks like a public assertion of Caste power, which is frightening.

18 (24m 32s):
We're not going to be able to abolish Caste in India, I think, without also thinking about what it means to abolish Caste in the diaspora and vice versa. These are absolutely connected movements. But I think, so for the US case, certainly, I think it's an absolutely welcome move, not just from the point of view of just the South Asian community or other minority communities where Caste is practice, but from the point of view of larger US society, which is to recognize that there are vulnerable communities even within racialized minorities that require protection.

0 (25m 16s):
That was Professor Ananya Chakravarti of Georgetown. Today's episode was produced by Halima Shaw and Isabel Angell with an assist from Fiona Petros. It was edited by Miranda Kennedy, in fact, checked by Laura Bullard. Our engineer is David Herman. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.