0 (1s):
As we enter month two of this war between Israel and Hamas, war Protesters all around the world are chanting ceasefire. Now it's coming from Jewish Protesters too. We are

1 (12s):
Proud Jewish people standing in solidarity with Palestinians demanding a ceasefire immediately. But

0 (17s):
It's not just Protesters, it's the Pope. It's the Un Secretary General. And

3 (25s):
The unfolding catastrophe makes the need for a Humanitarian ceasefire more urgent with every passing hour.

0 (34s):
It's the Queen of Jordan.

4 (35s):
I think Israel deserves more from its allies than just unequivocal support. I think it deserves some uncomfortable truths, because if you are a real friend, you support your friend when they're right, but you also tell them when they've crossed the line.

0 (48s):
But Israel and the United States aren't having it. The possibility, an impossibility of a ceasefire. Coming up. On today explained.

Decoder with Nilay Patel (1m 0s):
Hi, I am Neela Patel, Editor-in-Chief of the Verge and host of Decoder. We have a very special guest on this week's episode, former President Barack Obama. And our conversation touches on some of the most pressing issues of today. How do we prevent AI from being misused? What should we learn from our failure to regulate social media platforms at all? And can we balance the first amendment with combating disinformation? This is one of my favorite episodes of decoder, and I have to say, I think it's our show at its best. I sit down with high profile decision makers and business, politics and tech. I ask tough questions about difficult choices. And, we talk about what it all means for the future. My decoder interview with President Obama is available right now, wherever you get your podcast.

Imperfect Paradise (1m 41s):
In December, 2020, a Latino couple was falsely accused by a white mom influencer of attempting to kidnap her children, the Karen phenomenon, where white women falsely accused people of color of crimes, usually fixates on the accuser, the so-called Karen. But for this series, we focus on the innocent couple. At the heart of this story, I just want the public to know what she did was wrong, Imperfect Paradise people versus Karen, available Now, wherever you get your podcasts

9 (2m 12s):
In to, you're listening to today explained

0 (2m 21s):
Sean Ramas firm here with Jonathan Guyer, who writes about US foreign policy for Vox. We asked him if all these people calling for a Ceasefire from Protesters to politicians to the Pope are really asking for the same thing.

6 (2m 33s):
Well, I, I think they're all seeing the same thing, which is 10,000 fatalities, 25,000 injuries. 60 or 70% of Palestinians and Gaza have been internally displaced. So everyone's seeing this tremendous tragedy and violence and Gaza, and people want to see Humanitarian aid get in and some sort of pause. I mean, there's the whole semantics here is a Humanitarian pause, the same as a Humanitarian ceasefire. But the real thing is there's just not enough water, electricity, food, basic goods for Palestinians and Gaza who have been for 31 days under bombardment. And that's why we've started to see the Biden administration kind of incrementally minutely shifted its language from categorically rejecting any call for a ceasefire with now the president himself, Biden saying there needs to be a pause.

6 (3m 27s):
Secretary of State, Tony Blinken sort of saying there needs to be some kind of Humanitarian update to what's happening. and it seems like that is in large part, in response to these massive protests.

0 (3m 38s):
Obviously a huge factor here for Israel. One of many is the hostages who remain in Gaza. How do they factor in to calls for a ceasefire or Humanitarian, pause, what have you.

6 (3m 50s):
So there's a paradox here, Sean in that Israel is not gonna agree to a ceasefire with Hamas war unless these 240 or so hostages are released.

10 (3m 58s):
Well, there'll be no ceasefire, general ceasefire in Gaza without the release of our hostages.

6 (4m 4s):
At the same time, Hamas war is not gonna release the hostages, as they've said, unless there is a ceasefire. Why don't

11 (4m 10s):
You just release the people who are abducted?

12 (4m 12s):
Okay, well, what we want, first of all, we want to stop this daily ding Gaza daily killing in Gaza. It is our priority now,

6 (4m 19s):
But there's real risks to these Israeli and international, dual national hostages. We know that something like 40,000 housing units in Gaza have been destroyed with this scale of fatalities of over 10,000. It's just not clear yet whether some of these Israeli and international hostages have been caught in this rubble. In this tragic conflagration,

13 (4m 43s):
Hamas war. Military's wing says nine hostages, including four foreign nationals, were killed in IDF strikes in the Gaza Strip. Over the last day,

0 (4m 51s):
We've established there's all sorts of entities, political groups, political leaders, the Pope, the Queen of Jordan, whomever calling for a ceasefire. Who's in the opposite camp? Is it just the United States and Israel?

6 (5m 3s):
So there was a United Nations General Assembly vote. The resolution was calling for Humanitarian truce. It passed by a long shot.

14 (5m 12s):
The result of the vote is as follows, in favor, 120,

6 (5m 18s):
Only 14 countries were against it, among them, United States and Israel, but also Croatia, Czech Republic, Guatemala, and then several Pacific Island countries. Fiji, Micronesia, Marshall Islands. What was interesting is also 45 abstentions among them, Ukraine.

14 (5m 37s):
Draft resolution AES 10 L 25 is adopted.

6 (5m 45s):
But truly the United States is Israel's most prominent, most powerful backer. And I think the case could be made that without the United States' support this military campaign in Gaza wouldn't go on very long.

15 (5m 58s):
But the United States stands with Israel. We will not ever fail to have their back. We'll make sure that they have the help their citizens need and they can continue to defend themselves.

0 (6m 11s):
Okay, so the United States is the most important ally. What exactly is the stated position of the United States? Something called a Humanitarian pause.

6 (6m 21s):
The Biden team, they haven't really defined what they mean by a Humanitarian pause here, but we can see them kind of continually adjusting and and reshaping their rhetoric, recognizing just how severe the situation has become and just the cost of it continuing.

16 (6m 36s):
It is certainly accurate to say that President Biden brought up the idea of Humanitarian pauses with the Prime Minister. That is something that we've been talking to him and to his work cabinet about for quite some time. You know, secretary,

6 (6m 48s):
My sense is what the US administration is most concerned about is that Prime Minister Netanyahu doesn't have a measurably achievable plan. His two stated goals for this military campaign are to eliminate Hamas war and get the hostages back. And in, in many senses, those are in contradiction with one another and without an exit strategy or a day after plan for Gaza. Some experts are saying there may not even be a day after in Gaza, given the scale of the attacks so far,

17 (7m 18s):
What would've once been a bustling street in Gaza is now a gray burnt landscape.

0 (7m 25s):
So has Prime Minister Netanyahu been swayed at all by the Biden administration asking for a Humanitarian pause?

6 (7m 33s):
Well, all indications show that Netanyahu is, you know, doubling down and putting out trial balloons of a military occupation of Gaza. After Hamas war is eliminated, I

10 (7m 44s):
Think Israel will, for an indefinite period, will have the overall security responsibility, because we've seen what happens when we don't have it.

6 (7m 54s):
And the sort of bear hug method that Biden has pursued, which is holding Israel close and supporting it in international forums, while being kind of critical and maybe setting guardrails in private situations, doesn't really appear to be working, especially as the conflict enters its second month, and the Israeli attacks on Gaza continue unabated

10 (8m 17s):
Calls for a ceasefire are calls for Israel to surrender, to Hamas, to surrender to terrorism, to surrender to barbarism. That will not happen.

0 (8m 29s):
You know, on paper, Jonathan calling for a ceasefire doesn't feel like super divisive. What you're saying is, let's stop killing people. How is it landing in this super divisive conflict?

6 (8m 43s):
Divisive is the watch word I've seen Protesters, including Jewish American Protesters who are calling for a ceasefire being called pro Hamas, war being called antisemitic. I've seen a number of former Trump officials really railing on this point. And, and maybe it goes without saying, but I do think it's important to note that this kind of dissent, this kind of political activity is totally within the bounds. I mean, Condoleezza Rice, George w Bush's Secretary of State negotiated the ceasefire. This is very much within the bounds of US policy.

0 (9m 15s):
What makes this time different?

6 (9m 17s):
So I spent a bunch of time looking through Ceasefires, 2009, 20 12, 20 14, and as recently as May, 2021, when Biden and his team were in office. Obviously Israel's calculation has really changed here after the atrocities of October 7th, it's no longer the old policy of you can keep Hamas in power and kind of incrementally deal with them. The stated policy now is to get rid of Hamas war. And the hostage crisis obviously exacerbates tensions, raises emotions, and changes the strategic calculus here. But what I found most interesting is, you know, these ceasefires, they hold up until they don't.

6 (9m 59s):
And I was trying to figure out, you know, what can make it work? Why haven't they worked? And what experts told me, current and former officials who were involved in these negotiations is that they never worked because there wasn't a bigger political process, a political horizon that could lead to a Palestinian state. So at the end of the day, these ceasefires weren't tied to a bigger goal that could bring stability for Israelis and Palestinians.

0 (10m 23s):
Okay, so it, it sounds like the ceasefires that might work are the ones that actually lead to a long-term solution, as impossible as that might seem in this particular moment. Tell me what seems much more possible is that this goes on. What happens if we don't get a ceasefire? And we're in month three, month four, month five of this.

6 (10m 45s):
I fear it's gonna look a lot like today, but worse with civilians, Palestinians, and Gaza dealing with the worst parts of it already. Supplies are so meager for people in hospitals, for everyone in Gaza is truly suffering. The potential for a broader Middle East war is real. Hezbollah the, the militant group in Lebanon that resorts to terrorism quite frequently has stayed out so far. They're a relatively pragmatic actor, but they may get involved. I'm equally concerned about countries like Egypt and Jordan, which are not democracies by any stretch of the word. But if there are mass protests in the streets, it could really expose how brittle these regimes are.

6 (11m 31s):
And that's why we've seen the foreign minister of Jordan, the queen of Jordan, and others speak quite forwardly about the need for a ceasefire.

0 (11m 43s):
Jonathan, Guyer, Vox. We're gonna ask if anyone in the region really wants this conflict to escalate when we're back. On today, explained

Noom (12m 5s):
Support for today, explain comes from Noom. There is a whole big weight loss industry. It can be hard to figure out what works for you. Noom wants to tell you a bit about Noom. Noom uses science and personalization to try to help you manage your weight over the long term. Noom says that their psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors, and you can decide how Noom fits into your life and not the other way around. Noom offered a sample of 4,272 numer, and 98% of them said Noom helped them change their habits and behaviors for good. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Vox who works on the business side of things. She had a chance to try out Noom and tell us how it went. There were days where I was overeating based on my goal and days where I was undereating and Noom had a very clever way of also matching my mood to those days. So I could actually see after about a week that I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed. And days that I'm more relaxed, I'm eating more, and I know some people's habits are the opposite of that. You Can sign up for a trial today at Noom dot com. That's NOO m.com to sign up for a trial today.

Etsy (13m 17s):
Support for today explain comes from Etsy. The holiday season is approaching, and you might be on the lookout for presents. Etsy says, Etsy is a great place to find affordable handcrafted gifts made by independent sellers. Maybe one of your friends is a home chef. Etsy can help you find a custom cutting board, unique serveware. Maybe you have a family member who's a techie. You can get them a new gadget. You can get that gadget personalized. Maybe you have a co-host who's in need of a new mesh shirt. You can browse mesh shirts from the many talented artisans on the marketplace to find that ideal piece for them to wear to the club. Embroidered linens, throw pillows, artisanal jewelry, mesh shirts and more. Etsy has something to satisfy everyone on your gift list this holiday season and help you find that personal artistic touch for something truly memorable. You can shop now@etsy.com. If you're new to Etsy, use the code holiday 10 for 10% off your first purchase. That's code holiday 10, maximum discount value of $50. Guys expires December 31st, 2023. See terms at etsy.com/terms You're listening to today. Explained.

21 (14m 35s):
My name is John Alterman. I'm a Middle East expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. D

0 (14m 42s):
John's had all the big DC jobs, think tank professor, state Department, legislative aid to a senator. But lately he's been doing lots of interviews on this war.

21 (14m 51s):
So Mr. Gloo and Doom,

0 (14m 52s):
Our guest earlier in the show also named John, said that if there's no ceasefire, things could certainly get worse. And there's always the possibility of a regional escalation as a Middle East expert. What do you think of the possibility for a regional escalation?

21 (15m 7s):
Well, there's a possibility. There's two ways things could escalate. They could escalate because of calculation or miscalculation. It seems to me that all the body language I'm seeing from the bad guys in the Middle East, their calculation is, doesn't really make sense to escalate. Certainly right now. Partly 'cause things are going their way, partly because the risk of escalation would be greater than the reward. So I think I saw Hasan Ralo speak last Friday. I got the sense that he wanted to make some noise, but didn't want to get into a real fight with the United States.

22 (15m 43s):
Alright, now we're gonna have to go to Hassan Nasrallah, the leader of Hezbollah. He's speaking. Let's listen in

23 (15m 51s):
Some claim that we are about to engage in the war. I'm telling you, we have been engaged in this battle since October the eighth.

21 (16m 5s):
I have looked at what the Iranians have said. The Iranian feeling is the ball is kind of moving in their direction. Israel is growing more isolated. The US is growing more isolated because of its ties to Israel. Everybody's talking about Iranian presence in the region and all these proxy forces they've been supporting. So from an Iranian perspective, things are actually pretty good. Why would you wanna risk that and risk a fragile economy when things are actually moving in a, in a good way? Hmm. So I think the risks of escalation by calculation are relatively modest right now. The risks of escalation by miscalculation are serious and rising.

21 (16m 45s):
You have a lot of guys with guns who are committed to deterring other people to show that they're not pushovers. One of the problems with that is partly have a command and control problem that can the Iranians or their proxies control all the guys with guns who might have an idea to do something stupid or heroic. Hmm. That's one set of problems. You have a problem of weapons that go off in the wrong direction or or kill more people than you thought would be the case. You have the problem that when the US responds, if the US responds to something, it can be taken not as a defensive move by the United States, but as an offensive move that requires them to act, to show that they're not being intimidated, which requires the US to act.

21 (17m 30s):
And you can get into a spiral very quickly, and it's something we're, we're gonna have to be very, very cautious about. Again, calculation. I think nobody wants it to go in that direction right now. Miscalculation it is an enduring problem.

0 (17m 49s):
I mean, you mentioned Iran, it sounds like they're sort of content with the status quo. We heard about the Queen of Jordan earlier in the show. What about the other Arab nations in the region? Where would they like to see this go in the coming weeks and months?

21 (18m 6s):
So there's a, a partly a difference between governments and people on the governmental side. They all hate Hamas. Hamas is all the things they most fear. It's an armed group embracing political Islam supported by the government of Iran. That's a trifecta. If you're an Arab government, that's exactly what you don't wanna see. I think the Arab governments quietly would love to see Hamas destroyed. There's a different issue with Palestinians. And a week ago we interviewed, or two weeks ago now, I interviewed the, the foreign minister of Jordan. And, and he almost didn't use the word Hamas. He kept talking about Palestinians. There's a lot of sympathy for Palestinians, for the Palestinian cause as a moral issue.

24 (18m 51s):
There's been almost complete dehumanization of the Palestinians. And, and people are asking legitimate questions, is this war going to end this or is it gonna lead to more of this? What about 6,000 Palestinians who've who've who've died in, in, in, in, in, in the days since this terrible nightmare engulfed all of us. They have families too. They have names. They, you know, they have faces, they have memories.

0 (19m 16s):
You've spent time inside the United States government. You've surely been watching the Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken jet setting around the Middle East, constantly looking very stressed out. What do you make of the job he's doing? Has he accomplished anything?

21 (19m 33s):
I think he has. I mean, first of all, he works for the president and then the president set the course of embracing Israel and showing I, I shared your pain. I, I feel your pain. And using that as the foundation on which you're gonna try to shape Israeli policies

25 (19m 48s):
Today. In my fourth visit to Israel since October 7th, I reiterated that in all my discussions with Prime Minister Netanyahu, president Herzog, the security cabinet, I reread it and made clear our support for Israel's right to defend itself. Indeed its obligation to defend itself.

21 (20m 8s):
The challenge he has is that the gap between Israel and, and Israeli actions and Israeli sentiments and the neighborhood is growing wider and not narrower. The Israelis are still bent on revenge, bent on deterrents, bent on teaching Palestinians a lesson. And the Arab governments are saying, the violence needs to stop right now. The the problem is not that blinken isn't effective enough, the problem is the problem he's trying to solve is getting bigger and not smaller.

25 (20m 44s):
We need to do more to protect Palestinian civilians. We've been clear that as Israel conducts this campaign to defeat Hamas war, how it does so matters. It matters because it's the right and lawful thing to do. It matters because failure to do so plays into the hands of Hamas war and other terror groups. There will be no partners for peace if they're consumed by Humanitarian catastrophe and alienated by any perceived indifference to their plight.

0 (21m 14s):
When that time does come, when everyone can agree that this violence needs to stop, that there does in fact need to be a ceasefire, whether that means that the hostages are returned in a way that Israel finds amenable, or whether it means some kind of apology is happening in here. What happens next if, if Hamas war is somehow eradicated, what comes next in Gaza? How do we get to a point where we can prevent further violence there?

21 (21m 45s):
So I, I just read a, a sort of chilling piece from a friend and colleague of mine, Nathan Brown, who's at George Washington University in the Carnegie Endowment, who argues that there, there may never be a day after in Gaza that Gaza may be suffering for months and years with this unstable situation, a destroyed infrastructure with no viable governance structure. That, that it's not clear we're going to get to that point. I hope we do get to the point. I think there needs to be a replacement for Hamas war, which is importantly palatable to Palestinians as well as palatable to Israelis.

21 (22m 26s):
I think it's gonna take a long time to get there. It's gonna be incremental. Part of the problem is the Palestinian authority is both weak and illegitimate. It needs to be both stronger and more legitimate.

24 (22m 37s):
The p and a is crumbing. That's a reality. Not totally it's fault alone. It does need to regain its standing with its people. And I think the only way that can happen is if that in addition to reforms, which are essential within, within the p and a, but also an ecosystem that enables it to go to its people and say, look, there is hope for you and I will deliver this, this end game for you, which means your security and your stateholder freedom.

21 (23m 9s):
I think there's an Arab role in doing that. There's a European role in doing that. There are roles for other countries, but it seems to me that, that if you extinguish the flames of Hamas war, you still have the embers of Hamas. And unless you're able to create an alternative for Palestinians, that gives them a political horizon, that gives them a sense of they actually have a future that doesn't involve suffering and dying, unless you can supply that the flames of Hamas or some successor are gonna come back. And at this point, you know, when I talk to, to folks on both the Palestinian side and the Israeli side, they say We're nobody's ready to talk about coexistence.

21 (23m 56s):
But it seems to me that in the longer term, that's the only solution. It's not a, it's not an easy solution. It's not a happy solution. It means people have to get a lot less than they want. But, but a lot of diplomacy isn't about asserting what you want. It's about ensuring that you get what you need. And we're not at that point, people are still talking about what they want. I think we will come to a point when people are tired and frustrated and worn out enough that we can shift the conversation to what do I want to, what do I really need? And that's when you're gonna have some possibilities.

21 (24m 38s):
You know, in terms of an actual ceasefire, in my experience with all Hamas has been in a lot of confrontations. They never like to talk about a ceasefire that's a little formal. That's old school. They'd use other words for pause for Quiet. They use, they use Hudna for sort of a truce. They have all sorts of euphemisms for ceasefire, which doesn't require actually having a negotiation for the Israelis. But I think we will get to points where the violence will dip. The US will try to negotiate it. The US will try to bring other partners and others who are in touch with Hamas. I think we will get there. But there's a broader question about what's the US relationship with Israel going forward.

21 (25m 23s):
That partly depends on where Israel is going forward, where Israel is in the world going forward. And a core goal of Hamas is to ensure that Israel is isolated in the world and they see this as an isolation that can last decades into the future. And a core tactic is to use Israeli strength to get to that outcome. Hmm. And I'm not sure that the Israelis have figured out a way to, to combat that.

0 (25m 56s):
John Alderman is the director of Middle East Policy at CSIS, the Center for Strategic and International Studies. It's a big DC think tank and even big DC think tank people have podcasts. Johns is called Babel Translating the Middle East. This one's today explained. We were produced by Avi Shai Artsy and Isabel Angell edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by David Herman more tomorrow.

Land Of The Giants (26m 48s):
From the moment Twitter was founded, no one knew what it was supposed to be exactly, which was kind of great. Some people would look at it and say, this is the future of communications. Others would look at it and say, this is the public square. Eventually it became not so great. What we didn't foresee was that everybody having a voice might produce a global voracious mob. And there was only one place that that was happening. and it was Twitter a year ago in what was essentially the world's most expensive impulse purchase. Elon Musk bought Twitter that made him Twitter's most important user, but he's certainly not the only one to fall for. Its spell a spell that promises attention, connection, and power. I'm Peter Kafka and I'm hosting Land of the Giants, the Twitter fantasy. It's from Vox and the Vox Media Podcast Network. This season is sponsored by Mint Mobile to learn how Twitter got started, how it got where it is today, and where it's going next. Follow land of the Giants wherever you listen and get New episodes. every Wednesday.