3 (1s):
It's a challenging time for small businesses and communities across the country. Facebook's business resource Hub offers free tools to help you manage your business support your customers and employees and connect with other business owners who are facing similar challenges from information on how to bring your business online to setting up a customer service plan. Facebook's business. Resource Hub. Has you covered learn more at facebook.com resource. That's facebook.com slash resource.

3 (43s):
It's Friday, June 19th.

2 (47s):
Happy Freedom Day. Juneteenth is the

3 (51s):
day African Americans celebrate the end of slavery. But Brenda Stevenson professor of history and African-American studies at UCLA says everyone should get behind the Juneteenth celebrations. I asked her to explain the history of Juneteenth to me back in 2018, but it feels more important now than ever that everyone understands. Holiday in June 2020. So today you're going to get an encore presentation it all goes back to Texas Juneteenth Stars really in

2 (1m 24s):
1865 when General Gordon Granger arrived in Galveston, Texas.

3 (1m 29s):
I was 2,000 troops to basically take over this area that

2 (1m 35s):
was held by the Confederacy. And as part of that he is going to let those persons who are still enslaved in. In Texas during this time period know that slavery has ended. Obviously this all comes down to June 19 1865. What happens that day in Galveston, Texas what is read out and and who celebrates General Granger is the person who reads this Proclamation that says the people of Texas are informed that in accordance with a proclamation from the executive of the United States all slaves.

2 (2m 17s):
Our free this involves an absolute equality of personal rights and the rights of property between former Masters and slaves and the connection heretofore existing between them becomes that between employer and hired labor and that is the end of

3 (2m 42s):
it and people are both amazed and thrilled and excited and there is death. Dancing in the Street there is singing there is praise to God there are you know spirituals that are being sung and people just impromptu partying running away, you know leaving their plantations.

2 (3m 6s):
Well, can you remember what happened when they set you free? You remember how the old Master acted when there's no

3 (3m 12s):
sir. I can't remember that. You know can't remember that. But I remember you know, what time the You will be getting on a 1919 had a long table in this head the little everything you won't eat, you know and drinking them and they said that was only 19 a lots of people hit the road to try to find their family members that they have been separated from and so it is a miraculous and celebratory and exciting and frightening and jubilant moment. And for those hundreds of thousands of persons who are enslaved in Texas at the time.

3 (3m 53s):
There was a lot of peer services that took place lots of marriages that took place at Juneteenth because of course African Americans were not allowed to legally marry during this time period so oftentimes after these celebrations have group marriages that took place. So there's this celebration this sort of joyous moment. How is it followed what does life become like for a freed slave in a place like Galveston Texas or anywhere else in the South? It doesn't stay a jubilant moment. Yeah. This is the end of a war. This is a war that has devastated the region approximately 800,000 people have died.

3 (4m 35s):
And so we construction begins. There is an attempt to kind of redo the American Salve to make it more like at least legally. Like the Northeast but these are lost is not Customs. These are not behaviors and we're still grappling, you know, so many years later with trying to have the nation actually become a place of equality for all people. We know that Jim Crow, you know, you know comes in and becomes part of the experiences of African descent of people who were slaves fairly soon after the end of the Civil War. I mean once the U.s.

3 (5m 15s):
Military leaves any region it basically goes back to the way that it was. There's disfranchisement African-American males lose the right to vote. There is domestic terrorism in the form of lynching in the term in the form of burning down property in the form of not allowing people to have property in the form of rape in the form of seizure of children, etc. Etc. So it does turn fairly soon to something of a horror show for those persons. And does the jubilant Spirit of Juneteenth died.

3 (5m 56s):
Amidst this this horror show the jubilant Spirit of Juneteenth does not die because it remains in the African American imagination and and history and reality as a moment when at least legally slavery ended people did have more control over their labor people did have more control. All over the families and particularly their children. So people were able to gain some property people were able to gain education. And so people continue to celebrate that but also continue to celebrate June teens as a moment of inspiration from moving forward, its people saw the nation evolving towards the side has ideals of equality.

3 (6m 47s):
So despite this being a major And emancipation isn't a storybook ending its it's lynching. As you said, it's Jim Crow segregation. How is Juneteenth celebrated after emancipation? Well, Juneteenth is celebrated in different kinds of ways. Some people have parade some people have barbecues. Some people have reenactments. Some people continue to have church services surrounded fundraisers are rounded to help, you know needing people within the community. Etc many persons who white persons who live in the south would not allow them these celebrations to occur on public spaces.

3 (7m 30s):
So there were efforts by people in Galveston the other parts of Texas and throughout the South to raise money to purchase land so that they could have these celebrations. They happened in the segregated schools that were imposed upon, you know, African-Americans they happens as part of church life as Part of family life. They were also continued through the club movements the Masons the black Mason's that occurred the ladies organizations, etc. Etc. Some of those celebrations went underground and the privacy of a church in the privacy of your home with of course domestic terrorism of the Night Rider's of the KKK.

3 (8m 15s):
It was hard for some people to continue these celebrations and So we see particularly at the at the height of the lynching era which is the 1890s the first two decade two decades of the 20th century many of these celebrations disappear and I imagine the next big shift for Juneteenth comes around the Civil Rights era what happens then it really is doing the Civil Rights era that you see more and more people as we have a renewal of these reform efforts to bring equality to the country Racial equality, Juneteenth 3. emerges as one of the celebrations I think that comes out of the cultural nationalism people began to along with the creation of Kwanzaa people along with eventually the mom to King's birthday being celebrated with people celebrating more and more during Black History Month than even during black history week Juneteenth becomes one of those markers of Liberation that becomes a pearl Parallel holiday calendar for African Americans and also for people who are interested in equality within the country.

3 (9m 31s):
So it's a growing Global movement. Just not a national movement because I think people realize as we fight continued to fight modern-day slavery that in order to, you know, be inspired to find it. We have to look upon those moments of emancipation that I've Kirby.

2 (9m 49s):
Is little F to learn from it that first of all is something

3 (9m 53s):
that's

2 (9m 54s):
necessary that's needed that is

3 (9m 56s):
appreciated for something that often times.

2 (9m 59s):
He's a lot more work

3 (9m 60s):
associated with it. Once it happens. So there are lots of lessons to learn from Juneteenth that globally inspired the movement to end slavery worldwide. Up next time to explain there's a movement to get Juneteenth recognized as a national holiday to give everyone the day off, but first the movements going to have to get a whole lot of white people on board how to do that in a minute.

3 (10m 44s):
And response to covid-19 people around the world are coming together to help one another in an unprecedented show of solidarity and resilience. Facebook's community help feature is making that easier from delivering groceries to neighbors to donating to a local fundraiser or food pantry

2 (11m 1s):
Community Health provides a place where you can offer or

3 (11m 4s):
request support in your area. So if you need help or can offer it go to facebook.com slash covid support facebook.com covid support.

2 (11m 23s):
Urgent it is so important to me just because it's like it's the day that I became like a person rather than a flavor like a number celebrating it. It's like celebrating your culture and your legacy and the things that your ancestors did to get you where you are today and know that you're going to do those things to get your you know, your future kids and their kids and their kids to a better place than we are now just because slavery is technically a Doesn't mean that everything's my happy and dandy and equal and so it's like giunti the still so significant because of like the I don't want to call them civil rights battles, but just because of the battles that we still face in the African-American Community. I don't believe that oppression is something that we should live under or be subjected to and so, you know on a personal level.

2 (12m 10s):
It's my it's my human right to be able to live equally. We and thrives as equally amongst our brothers and sisters for me. Juneteenth celebrates my freedom in America Fourth of July Independence Day does not celebrate my freedom in America. But Juneteenth does I am a native Texan a native houstonian as I've also already said I was born in Third Ward raised in third water emancipation Park. So this date commemorates my freedom as an American.

3 (12m 48s):
Okay, so that was some audio from a Juneteenth celebration at emancipation Park in Houston this weekend. So Texas is kind of the epicenter and birthplace of Juneteenth. But where else is it really celebrated? I think it's being celebrated by African-Americans and people of African descent in all 50 states. And I think you know, it's often times done in classrooms and schools it is done. In the Parks is done in churches is commemorated in state legislatures and people sometimes give gives there's lots of barbecues that occur. There's some parades there's some festivals art, you know artists shown there's dance music and where does Juneteenth rank in this sort of black calendar?

3 (13m 36s):
You talk about the features MLK day and and Kwanzaa and black history month is Juneteenth the most important date. Or is it among many other important dates? I think it's among many other important day. So many MLK is a national holiday, right? Juneteenth is recognized by 45 out of 50 States now, okay, and so it's a growing movement. Is there a chance that a lot of people feel like? Oh Juneteenth that isn't me? I don't want to appropriate that holiday that holidays for black people to celebrate like their history and their struggle and does that hurt the cause of Juneteenth them because people feel like they don't want Interfere with the celebration that maybe they don't belong to to celebrate a history that they didn't suffer through.

3 (14m 18s):
Well, I think that actually there's something for everyone in Juneteenth. I think that you know people celebrating the ideal of Jim teens, which is Liberation, which is a quality which is human respect and Humanity in general is not an appropriation, you know, it's part of the ideals of the nation as part of humanity of cumin Kind so if one of our listeners who doesn't happen to be black is walking home tonight and passes by a Juneteenth celebration he or she should engage should go out there. Give someone a hug enjoy some barbecue, whatever it might be. Well, I think first of all if it's a private event, it's a private event.

3 (15m 4s):
I

2 (15m 4s):
thought this is a big thing that we should all know.

3 (15m 6s):
We should definitely know it but the first is certainly could, you know go forth and to the person and say what's going on here and Juneteenth I've heard something about that is the end of slavery and I celebrate that. You know, that's wonderful. Can I have a rib? I think that many people would say, well you can have some potato chips. I wonder if you were president and could wave a magic wand and decide how Americans white black brown any color creed race. How they marked

2 (15m 45s):
Juneteenth, what would what would you put forth? What would

3 (15m 48s):
you establish? I would want some, you know moments dedicated as you come home from the mall,

2 (15m 58s):
you know, what does it ever

3 (15m 59s):
double or you know get the sand out of your bathing

2 (16m 2s):
suit yourself for people to just to spend even just a tiny amount of time talking about what

3 (16m 10s):
it is to be a free person

2 (16m 13s):
in this world. Old and why freedom

3 (16m 14s):
is important to each and every person and how we should

2 (16m 18s):
not take it for granted and we should not think that everyone has the same privileges that

3 (16m 26s):
many of the people in this country have and that we need to

2 (16m 30s):
make certain that

3 (16m 32s):
we promote that in whichever small a

2 (16m 35s):
large weight we can do so, this is something I would ask the nation to do. I would ask the world to do whether they choose. To do so or not. It's part of their rights as a free person. Brenda Stephenson teaches history and African-American studies at UCLA. I'm

3 (17m 2s):
Sean Rama's Forum. Happy Juneteenth.

2 (17m 9s):
If you really want to play he kept set aside a day to grab your doesn't come and meet the dude these Danbury met and they really fit your phone go to wigs job and everything is licking free the juicy Amber me, there's no shaking. No one's breaking. Everybody stops comes the chop and courtship open doing the Texas, huh? You really want to Spring chicks the law guarantee. Well, it doesn't come with me. You seized a Marine.

3 (18m 1s):
It's a challenging time for small businesses and communities across the country. Facebook's business resource Hub offers free tools to help you manage your business support your customers and employees and connect with other business owners who are facing similar challenges from information on how to bring your business online to setting up a customer service plan. Facebook's business. Resource Hub. Has you covered learn more at facebook.com resource. That's facebook.com slash resource.