1 (3s):
Hello.

2 (4s):
Hey, I'm calling with an important question. Are you excited for the coronation this week?

1 (11s):
My sister in Sri Lanka asked me the same question. I said, not really, but I will watch it.

2 (16s):
How come?

1 (17s):
Well, Charles, I never thought he'll be a king.

2 (21s):
What do you mean? He was the heir to the throne for like 70 years.

1 (25s):
It's a different era now. We don't need a king. I guess it's a little bit too pompous. I don't know. It's kind of boring now.

2 (32s):
What do you mean these people got all sorts of drama. There's hairy and Charles drama, there's all sorts of drama. Yeah,

1 (38s):
That's the reason I'm watching it. I want to see what, what drama is going on there.

2 (43s):
Okay, so, so you're watching it for the drama for the soap opera, but you're not excited about the coronation of King Charles.

1 (50s):
That's right. You got it right.

2 (51s):
I have a feeling that there's a lot of people like you out there, mom. Yeah. We're gonna dig into this on today. Explained

1 (58s):
Oh wow.

3 (1m 0s):
Nita Manor's new movie is part Teen Comedy, part Bollywood Drama and part Martial Arts action film, which makes for some really interesting scenes

4 (1m 10s):
Every time you go for any sort of ridiculous body hair removal, it's like this is like a kin to torture. I need a waxing torch, Justine and I need a villain just chewing the scenery ring. This is why I wanna be a filmmaker to make this specific scene

3 (1m 24s):
Nita Manzo on her new movie Polite Society this week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast,

0 (1m 35s):
Lonely

2 (1m 43s):
Today explained.

5 (1m 47s):
My name is Brooke Newman. I'm an associate professor of history at Virginia Commonwealth University. An author of the upcoming book, the Queen's Silence, the Hidden History of the British Monarchy and Slavery.

2 (1m 59s):
For People who Have Never Seen a Poor Nation before, which I imagine is much of our audience, what can we expect this weekend? Is God gonna come down and and part the heavens? And bless King Charles,

6 (2m 16s):
The Stone of Destiny has completed its journey from Edinburgh castle to Westminster Abbey.

7 (2m 21s):
Well, the bunting is of the union of Flag is almost everywhere you look and people are trying to perfect the coronation. Kesh,

5 (2m 28s):
The point you made is interesting because the last coronation was 70 years ago.

8 (2m 33s):
So today the Queen will ascend the steps of her throne there symbolically to be lifted into it by the Archbishop and the Earl Marshall in the sight today of a great multitude of people. It is at the moment that she is seated upon her throat that she takes possession of her kingdom.

5 (2m 60s):
It's a ceremony involving a lot of pomp, a lot of grandeur. A military procession, king Charles will be anointed with sacred oils. He will swear an oath to uphold the British Constitution. You know, for most people what what's really happening is a very elaborate, extremely expensive ceremony to crown someone who was already king. He was king the moment his mother died.

2 (3m 27s):
How does it shake out in the uk? Are more people excited about this and and mystified by the pomp and ceremony? Or are more people questioning why this extremely rich man is having this extremely expensive ceremony this weekend?

5 (3m 41s):
There are of course your diehard royalists in the uk. These are the people who are camping out in advance of the coronation and

9 (3m 48s):
We can't wait to see him coming down the mile and the gold coach and we'll be all cheering, enjoy the Mexican wave in red, white, and blue, and we're chilling. God save the king and his queen.

5 (3m 58s):
They're the ones buying the souvenir biscuit tins and the little bobbleheads of Charles iii. Then there is the bulk of the country who is sort of politely ambivalent, a little bit apathetic. This is just, you know, yet another expensive ceremonial event. According

10 (4m 17s):
To the express, the majority of Britain's don't care about King Charles's coronation. A shocking you gov poll finds, and it is kind of shocking. It said that 64% of Britain's don't care very much or don't care at all, while only 23% care a lot or care a fair amount.

5 (4m 37s):
And then you have the Republican movement people in the uk, which is about one in five. And they are annoyed and actively hostile too. Not only the king, but also the coronation. Seeing it as essentially a useless process

12 (4m 57s):
Down with the monarchy. A federal republic is what we need. I find it a little bit upsetting for a reporting network, 1.5 billion. And yet we gotta put the bill for the coronation.

5 (5m 8s):
And especially given the current cost of living crisis, the rising cost of energy inflation is hovering at around 10% in the uk. And this is something that is on people's minds, you know, why is it that we don't have the money to pay for the nhs, the health system or teachers, but we've got, you know, millions of pounds to throw at this potentially unnecessary and over the top coronation. Hmm. So I do think you'll that it is really a a, a wide spectrum of response. But compared to Queen Elizabeth's coronation, which had people like throngs of people lining up in the streets, millions of people watching on tv, cuz it was the first televised coronation and people going out and actually buying TVs because they didn't have them just to watch it.

5 (5m 55s):
It is a completely different mood, much more apathetic, much more disinterested and even ambivalent in the sense of what is the point of all of this?

2 (6m 4s):
How is this being viewed around the world, starting with the commonwealth? Because I feel like I've been seeing articles for months now saying, eh, Canada doesn't care about the the coronation. Australia doesn't care about the coronation. Jamaica doesn't care about the coronation. I

5 (6m 18s):
Think across the commonwealth the mood is also divided. But there is definitely a sense of disregard for the, the coronation. People don't really care. And certainly not in the former slave colonies. And actually in Jamaica, the prime minister there has said, you know, he is not attending the coronation. They're also planning to hold a referendum in 2024. They just announced this to completely sever ties with the monarchy.

13 (6m 45s):
What Jamaica is, as you would see, a country that is very proud of our history, very proud of what we have achieved and we are moving on. We,

5 (6m 57s):
You know, these have kind of come to a head because of the coronation and the fact that there hasn't been an apology for colonialism and slavery, the legacies of slavery. And this is pretty widespread throughout the Caribbean. Why

14 (7m 10s):
Not a full apology? Is it because you may have to give back the wealth of the monarchy taken from the people, taken from the places that were colonized, taken from the places where the people were enslaved. But

5 (7m 27s):
Then when you look at places that are considered, you know, white settler societies initially like Canada, New Zealand, Australia, even there, the mood is ambivalent. I

15 (7m 38s):
Don't even know when the coronation is, doesn't interest me at all. I think he's too old to be king. And I think they really, if they want to do something and get people interested, they should just have him step down and give it to, is it Williams? Yeah.

5 (7m 52s):
People I think are continuing to wonder why they have the British monarch as head of state in the 21st century, given the fact that retaining the monarchy is not the same source of political legitimacy, instability that it once was, his reign will necessarily be much shorter, his influence will be limited when compared to his mother. He rarely measures up according to most people. Whether you're being p whether the polls are being conducted at home or around the world, he's just not as popular. And partly that is because he's had so many decades to show the public, you know, what he believes who he is.

5 (8m 40s):
It comes

16 (8m 40s):
To the conclusion that really it would've been far easier to have had two wives.

5 (8m 49s):
And so much of the job of being Monarch is about being a figurehead and being politically neutral and essentially projecting that you are above scandal, you are above corruption. That you are essentially someone who is worth all of this deference. And Charles though has in the past been involved in multiple scandals, not just involving, you know, apprentice Diana and the breakdown of his marriage and all of the embarrassment that came out after that in the media and the interviews that they gave. Do you think

17 (9m 24s):
Mrs. Parker bowls was a factor in the breakdown of your marriage?

18 (9m 28s):
Well there were three of us in this marriage, so it was a bit crowded.

5 (9m 33s):
But the treatment of Meghan Markle, which accelerated again the response of people in places like Jamaica where they thought, well look how she was treated. Were

19 (9m 43s):
You silent or were you silenced?

5 (9m 46s):
Viciously attacked by the tabloids and not protected by the palace. Not only that, she contemplates suicide and ends up leaving the country and all of her royal duties. So this I think really tarnished Charles's reputation, particularly abroad and in the realms.

2 (10m 6s):
But that hasn't stopped him from literally asking the entire world to essentially bend the knee

5 (10m 11s):
Right and yell out their support of him and their loyalty. Yell out, oh yeah, did you not hear about this? So this is something that Buckingham Palace has announced and they thought this would be a great way to modernize the coronation ceremony. I

20 (10m 26s):
Giles experiment, do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to his majesty. King Charles, his heirs and successors according to the law,

2 (10m 40s):
Modernize the ceremony.

5 (10m 43s):
Yes, yes. So normally when the king is anointed, the peers of the realm essentially say swear their allegiance. And so what they were thinking was, well, we're gonna democratize this and we're going to invite the people, people around the world, so millions of people at home to yell out and swear their allegiance to the king. But this statement that they wanted the the world to do this just immediately backfired.

21 (11m 11s):
Will you be standing up, putting your hand to your heart in your lounge room and reciting the oath along with them pledging allegiance to the king?

5 (11m 18s):
I can't imagine doing that. No,

22 (11m 20s):
No, not at all.

23 (11m 24s):
If someone paid me then I might, but other than that, definitely not.

2 (11m 28s):
It sounds like what we call it today explained mandatory fun.

5 (11m 32s):
Right? I'm, I'm actually really curious to see what kind of commentary and length satirical approaches come out as a result of the coronation. My favorite post queen Elizabeth's death commentary was Trevor Noah. Trevor Noah had this amazing skit about Charles and Pens.

24 (11m 53s):
It's gonna take a lot of work to shape the monarchy into something that everyone can get behind. But based on his first weekend power, he looks like King Charles isn't the guy to do it.

25 (12m 4s):
We begin with King Charles and his problems with

24 (12m 7s):
Pens, his reign,

5 (12m 8s):
Which made me laugh so hard cuz he basically had to use this pen and it was leaking and he was freaking out.

26 (12m 14s):
Oh god.

24 (12m 25s):
And by the way, I love how Charles says the pens leak on him all the time. These are the way you literally the King of England. Dude, if you don't like the pens, get different pens. I'm not an expert in the monarchy, but I'm pretty sure the hierarchy doesn't go. Prince William, king Charles and then the guy who buys the pens. I don't think that's how it goes. Just get a new pen.

27 (13m 3s):
Hey folks, I'm Heather Cox Richardson.

28 (13m 5s):
And I'm Joanne Freeman.

27 (13m 7s):
We're the hosts of now and then a podcast from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network that looks to the American past to make sense of our current political and cultural climate.

28 (13m 18s):
Recently we've traced the tangled history of the New York County District Attorney's office, the American cultural fascination with UFOs and our national love hate relationship with the banking industry.

27 (13m 29s):
Tune in each Wednesday as we make sense of the headlines and the long road to this crucial moment for democracy.

28 (13m 36s):
Listen for free wherever you get your podcasts

29 (13m 42s):
This week on The Verge. Why is it so hard to find director's commentary on streaming services?

30 (13m 47s):
I've been shouting about this on social media for a number of years. Streamers very, very easily could add one audio track that includes a commentary.

29 (13m 55s):
Why would you make a whole movie about Blackberry?

31 (13m 59s):
It's a product that is universally known in a way and almost known as a joke. And I thought this would be a great way for me to Trojan Horse, the way my friends and I make movies into a story that a general audience may be interested in seeing.

29 (14m 11s):
And how do you direct an entire feature length mystery film? All on computer screens.

32 (14m 17s):
Not one shot in the movie is screen recording, like everything is built custom pixel by pixel. Basically

29 (14m 23s):
This episode is all about making movies about tech and using tech to make movies. It's the director's episode of The Verge and you can hear it anywhere you find podcasts.

20 (14m 38s):
I Giles experiment, do swear that I will be faithful and bear truly allegiance to his majesty. King Charles, his heirs and successors according to the law

2 (14m 56s):
Today, explained his back with Professor Brooke Newman from Virginia Commonwealth University. And since she's just written a book about the British monarchy and she teaches at Virginia Commonwealth University, I asked her how on earth the monarchy and the Commonwealth have survived into the electric car, artificial intelligence era we find ourselves in right now.

5 (15m 20s):
So I think there's a real paradox when you're thinking about an ancient hereditary institution surviving as a key part of modern democracies. But we also have to think historically and realize that monarchy has a very long history in Europe. It was a predominant form of government from, you know, the Middle Ages all the way up to World War I. But by the start of the 21st century, many of these monarchies had ceased to exist. And actually three quarters of the member states in the European Union now are republics. And if you talk to experts about monarchies, why have they survived? Generally what they'll say is that monarchies that have survived and that have continued into the 21st century have been accompanied by a steady decline of their actual political power, which has shrunk, you know, almost a zero.

5 (16m 11s):
So these monarchies are in many ways symbolic at the same time. They exist still because they're seen as nonpartisan heads of state, but

33 (16m 22s):
Surely doing nothing is no job at all

34 (16m 25s):
To do nothing is the hardest job of

5 (16m 27s):
All. And there's something about this idea of being nonpartisan, of being neutral, that people seem to gravitate to, especially those who continue to defend the existence of monarchies. That I think if anything's gonna undermine the monarchy, it's going to be this, the people within the institution kind of crumbling under the pressure of having to uphold this thousand year old institution and public expectations and demands in the 21st century. In our all access 24-hour news tabloid world,

2 (16m 57s):
Is there any version of the modernization that that King Charles is planning on doing or already doing that seems to be working other than shrinking the size of the their footprint?

5 (17m 9s):
I only know what he's announced. So he's announced that he's going to shrink the family. He's also announced that he's going to step back from more, he's more activist roles on, you know, climate change and the environment for instance, and allow his heir William to take over some of those functions so that he can be seen as neutral. But I do think, and this is, this is something I I I've been thinking about a lot lately cuz I work on slavery. The question of political neutrality is something that can be also complex because is for example the history of slavery and the issue of reparations. Is that something where it has to be on one side or the other politically?

5 (17m 54s):
Can it be something that the government and the crown just decides to do and still view it as a politically neutral choice? Is talking about climate change, something that could be seen as good for the nation and a global issue that could potentially be politically neutral, but instead that's not what's happened. All of these issues, whether we're talking about slavery, racism, colonialism, the environment, climate change, they've all now become part of the culture wars. So it's become increasingly difficult for him to say anything without alienating somebody.

2 (18m 29s):
I get that the royal family can mean something to people in the uk I in times of national duress. What about the Commonwealth nations? What are they getting out of it? The Canadas and Jamaicas and, and New Zealands in

5 (18m 42s):
The Commonwealth realms, the monarchs powers are largely ceremonial. Political decisions are made by an elected parliament, by a prime minister who implements those decisions. So monarchs are head of state, but they're not the head of the government. But they have constitutional duties like approving new governments, formally approving legislation, appointing certain officials, granting state honors. And so I think the real question is really, they're not getting a lot necessarily from this relationship with the monarchy. It's just historic. It's part of the process of these various former colonies in particular becoming independent.

5 (19m 22s):
And there isn't much, much to say, I think in terms of wanting to maintain this relationship if you do not value both the institution of the monarchy itself and the person who is embodying that institution, which is Charles.

2 (19m 38s):
Yeah, I mean you make it sound like a marriage of convenience, right. Is there any drawback to that marriage of convenience for these 14 commonwealth realms?

5 (19m 50s):
Well, there's a drawback in the sense that Britain is still the power around which they pivot there. It's still, everything is about Britain as the centerpiece of this relationship. If you go to Jamaica, if you go to Canada, New Zealand, various realms, there are, you know, state, state names, there are place names, there are streets, there are festivals connected to the monarchy. And so it's hard for these realms to have a sense of their own history independent from Britain and independent from the institution of the monarchy because so much of their culture and belief system and education system is intertwined with Britain and British history and the trappings of empire.

5 (20m 35s):
And I think that that is part of what the Republican movement is mostly about. It's the sense of we've been in this relationship for so long, you know, why are we still in this relationship? Is it dysfunctional or is it just a relationship of convenience as you said? And if it is, what's the point? You know, why not essentially get rid of this relationship and then start to rename places and buildings and streets. And that's what they're doing in, in former realms like Barbados where they said we're out, you know, we're gonna take this square and rename it after a local hero. And there's something very inspiring about that. And I think you're more likely to get people to rally around, you know, national heroes and elected head of states than you are a figurehead from some other country that was your former colonizer.

2 (21m 25s):
And, and really King Charles is getting in the way of putting Rihanna and all the money in Barba. Right?

5 (21m 29s):
Exactly.

2 (21m 32s):
Charles, if King Charles's rule as King of England will be characterized by a bunch of countries bouncing from the commonwealth, do you think that will make the British monarch stronger in a way because there'll be fewer people? No, no, no,

5 (21m 54s):
No. It will diminish the British monarchy's global role and, and it will diminish Britain's soft power and influence because having the king as head of state over these realms where there's 150 million people total is a way of securing and maintaining Britain's power influence overseas. And yet we shouldn't discount the importance of soft power. The British and Queen Elizabeth in particular have been very strategic about using their soft power when they want to and when they think it's beneficial. And so once that, once that is eroded, you decrease the number of subjects that the Monarch has, you decrease the level of influence of the monarchy and Britain around the world and you decrease the stature and significance of the sitting monarch.

5 (22m 44s):
But at the same time, I, you'll see, I think announcements from Charles that he's fine with all of these realms leaving because there's nothing he can do. And so he would, for a pr move, he, it's better for him to say, you know, we support you in your Republican movements rather than to try to fight to keep them. But if I were him, I'd be thinking about my, my legacy. Cuz as a historian, I tend to think, take the long view and I think, you know, he doesn't have that much time left, but he could make a real impact if he came out and actually acknowledged some of these issues and engaged in conversation with, you know, descendant communities that have been impacted by colonialism and slavery.

5 (23m 25s):
That could make a real difference in public perceptions of the monarchy.

2 (23m 29s):
And maybe you could make life a little easier for, for his descendants, William and, and that little George kid.

5 (23m 35s):
Exactly. Because otherwise he's just punting this reckoning down the road. He's essentially saying, William, you can deal with this because eventually I think they're going to have to deal with this. This is not going away and the paper trail is there. We know that the monarchy was involved and many, you know, brutal and heinous things in the past. And so you can't have an institution that exists because of hereditary wealth and privilege and then have it say, well, you know, the sins of our ancestors don't touch us or unconnected to us when clearly the only reason they're, you know, Charles is even on the throne is because of this hereditary system is because of his ancestors

2 (24m 15s):
An incest,

5 (24m 17s):
Let's not go there.

0 (24m 23s):
Okay.

2 (24m 38s):
Brooke Newman, she's a history professor at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, Virginia. She's got a book coming out titled The Queen Silence, the Hidden History of the British Monarchy and Slavery. Our program today was produced by Queen Victoria Chamberlain. It was edited by Amina aad, fact checked by Serena Solan and Laura Bullard and mixed by Michael Rayfield and Paul Robert Moundy. The rest of us at today explained our Aviche artsy Haddi Ma Wadi Miles. Brians Petros. Amanda Louellen Halima Shaw are managing editor Matthew Collette and my co-host Noel King. We're blessed with extra help from Jolie Myers, music from Breakmaster Cylinder and the expertise of Mama Chitz.

2 (25m 23s):
I'm Sean Ramas for today. Explained is on the radio in partnership with W n yc and we are part of the Vox Media podcast network.