0 (0s):
Support for the shelter day comes from better help online therapy with better help. You can get access to great online therapy for way less money than you think you can connect with a licensed therapist in less than 48 hours and work over the phone on a video call or through text. That part of it is entirely up to you right now today. Explain listeners get 10% off their first month at better help.com/explained that is better. H E L p.com/explained support for the show. And it comes from Salesforce. Who believes that the experience you get from business matters as much as the product they sell. Salesforce is a cloud-based software company that brings customers and companies together.

0 (44s):
And with Salesforce, digital 360 users can bring sales, service, marketing, commerce it and analytics together in one place, go to S F D C dot C O slash inspiring digital to see how some of your favorite brands use Salesforce digital 360 that's SFDC dot C O slash inspiring digital to get started today. It's to explained I'm Sean Rama's from, for the past 50 years, Chile has sort of been stuck between two systems socialism and capitalism.

0 (1m 29s):
50 years ago, Chile had a socialist president named Salvador Allende. He did, you know, socialist things, free school, free milk for the kids for that. He was loved and he was hated. And a few years after he was elected democratically Chili's military took over. They stormed his office. I end, they took his own life rather than step down the murderous military man who took over a Gusto Pinochet, stamped out all of the socialism and replaced it with hyper capitalism, capitalism on steroids. You can go to McDonald's and Chile and buy a big Mac and installments as if you were, you know, picking up a car or paying your mortgage.

0 (2m 11s):
The hyper capitalism in present day, Chile is loved by some and hated by others. And last year the haters had their day. They went out into the streets. They protested, they won the right to rewrite their constitution to do away with these hyper capitalist markets that created lots of inequality. Then a month ago, Sheila elected a 35 year old president who is going to be overseeing this new government

4 (2m 60s):
President and a complete constitutional overhaul to things we can't really even fathom here in the United States. So we wanted to find out how it might go over. There is massive. John Bartlett has been writing about Gabriele borage for the guardian borage himself is an interesting character. He's he's got an incredibly sort of magnetic personality and obviously the 35 year old, he was only just old enough to run for president in the first place. So this incredibly powerful student generation who have managed to break down the door of the presidential pallets and, and here they are, they've arrived with something of a bang Or it's constantly says that he comes from social movements.

4 (3m 53s):
That was his kind of, you know, where they were this generation cut. Their teeth was in social movements and student politics, which is also incredibly strong here in Chile. He's exploded onto the scene as part of these huge student protests in 2011, which demanded free high quality education for all

7 (4m 11s):
Many European countries have reached a national consensus to guarantee quality public education for all in order to become more developed nations, we have to end the inequality, segregation, and injustice of our education.

4 (4m 24s):
The 2011 process or students pour out once the streets and actually kind of take these demands the top table for the first time in the democratic era in Chile, he then rose to become head of the university of Chitty students union. He actually beat Camilla by echo, who is now in the communist party.

8 (4m 44s):
Donald said, I have no doubt that Gabriele perfectly understands the challenges we have today, but some say the feminists had to be swept under the rug in the second round of the election.

4 (4m 57s):
At the time, she was a young communist and she was incredibly popular kind of figure around the university. And he managed to beat her against all odds to the presidency of the union.

9 (5m 7s):
No more discrimination, no more education for the rich and for the poor, we are all equal even though the government doesn't like it.

4 (5m 15s):
So after that, he went into Congress, he's now served two terms in Congress,

9 (5m 20s):
Humble how in this context is a 0.3% real wage increase going to be the cause of celebration for public sector employees.

4 (5m 30s):
First time he was elected, he was one of a handful who for the first time, since the return to democracy in 1990 and managed to get into Congress, despite not belonging to one of the two main coalitions in the country,

10 (5m 42s):
We are protesting against problems in the whole system. In general, above all the neoliberal system and Chile, we reached a crisis where we noticed that the system cannot handle it anymore

4 (5m 52s):
When they get the two terms later that the 2019 social movement, which was far broader across society at galvanize support amongst so many different kinds of people with so many different demands, he managed to ride that out and not, not really appropriate the spirits of that movement that he did manage to kind of represent many of those demands, which is what his generation had been had been talking about for such a long time. He was only old enough to run for president. By a couple of months, you have to be 35 to be president in Chile. And he was just the right side of that cutoff. Lots of people were kind of almost mocking him for this sort of brush breeze and run at the presidency.

4 (6m 32s):
And he didn't even notice to kind of to get the signatures he needed almost. And in the first round of the election in November, he, he lost by two percentage points to the far rights candidate, Jose Antonio cast. He ran this incredibly aggressive hardline pro Pinochet dictatorship and its economic legacy.

9 (6m 52s):
Let me say that

12 (6m 53s):
Chili we'll never be a Marxist or communist country because we believe in

4 (6m 57s):
Freedom, but he was out of very simple message.

11 (6m 59s):
I just make chili great again, he would expel undocumented migrants. He would maintain Chili's unbridled free market model and lower taxes for big business.

4 (7m 9s):
You know, he wants it to dig ditches along the, along the Northern borders of Bolivia and Peru to try and stop migrants coming into the country in the same way, as you know, the sort of Trump idea of building a wall,

11 (7m 18s):
Which would be three meters deep and six meters wide. And it's the closest thing yet, the former us president Donald Trump's wall along the us Mexican border, except the cast is not proposing that Bolivia paid

4 (7m 32s):
The two of them then past the second round, just before Christmas and on the 19th of December or at showbiz term, this two percentage point deficit to become Chili's president elect.

13 (7m 45s):
Well, I know that in the coming years Chili's feature is at stake. So I guarantee you that I'll be a president that looks after democracy and not risk it. That takes care of what he says. That always looks for unity that will attend to people's needs every day. That firmly stands up against the privilege of the few and work every day for the Chilean families to have a good quality of life.

4 (8m 6s):
Let's see, Antonio cast in the end, turned out to be this quite convenient foil for Birch's sort of progressive agenda because it was so starkly contrasting with what Berks wanted to do with the country and what a lot of young Chileans wanted to see happen in the country that I think that, you know, more than anything people United against cost and they did in favor of Gabrielle porridge,

0 (8m 27s):
It tells more about his agenda. Tell us more about the promises he made to Chilean

4 (8m 32s):
When he won the primary earlier this year against the communist party candidate, he stood on stage outside his kind of makeshift campaign headquarters and raise his fist into the sky promising to Barre near liberalism, this sort of a socioeconomic model that that general Pinochet left behind.

9 (8m 52s):
I will be a president who cares for our democracy, not one who extinguishes it, who listens more than he talks, who seeks unity and who attends daily to the needs of the people who fights against the privileges of the few and works every day for the quality of life of children and families.

4 (9m 10s):
And that's something that I think really does resonate with with young Chileans. Everyone can see the, the legacy of the Pinochet dictatorship in Chile, whether it's in the pension system, in the healthcare system and the way that services are provided for Chileans, you know, that kind of form the basis of what he wants to do, how he wants to kind of unpick this model and turn chili into something more, resembling more of a kind of social democracy with a welfare state, with social provisions and a social safety net kind of guaranteed for people. So, you know, he's talks about things that were really part of his, his initial program when he first kind of searched into politics. So in particular pardoning student that he wants to work towards kind of free high quality education for all the pension system, again, is an incredibly important part of this, that the pension funds that were actually devised by the current president's brother as part of the dictatorships model, which are these kind of privatized pension funds where you're contributing to them.

4 (10m 2s):
And then the allowances where people were given when they retired, ended up being, being pitiful. So he wants to unpick that completely. He wants to encourage a green recovery from the, from the pandemic, which I think is, you know, on the agenda, a lot of governments are taking office over the next couple of years around the world. Another is looking at how royalties work with, with mining as well. The kind of the backbone of the Chilean economy is extractivism, you know, the copper industry is incredibly strong here. You've got agriculture, forestry fisheries as well. Those are, those are really big sectors for the country. And he wants to address kind of all of these social ills that Chile has suffered over such a long period of time by essentially raising taxes and kind of, you know, increasing social spending.

0 (10m 48s):
Of course, Chili's wealth as a Latin American nation comes from chiefly it's it's mineral wealth. How is that being received?

4 (10m 58s):
I think that this is the big question for governments. They're taking the reins and not just in Latin America, which is traditionally a commodity exports, but also around the world over the next four or five years, because there's no doubt that climate action needs to be taken quickly and, you know, need to make very difficult decisions. One of the things that that's centered on here and Chitty in particular is lithium Chile, I think has, you know, just over 40% of the world's lithium, I think is going to be a mineral, which is going to, you know, define the, the, the fight against climate change. Of course it certainly is for batteries, but how bore it's really kind of manages the incredibly negative perception of mining. Obviously this team needs to be extracted and the shittiest case needs to be shipped to China, to be made into batteries and shipped back to the city to be used.

4 (11m 39s):
That's a very difficult conundrum for him. I think, you know, whether you're going to be able to tackle climate change without mining is, is another question I think he's going to have to be very careful about he's proposed a national lithium company in the image of Codelco, which is a state called the company here. And nobody really has any problems with what Codelco doing because they, they contribute a huge share of GDP in chili. And, you know, extractivism is always the way that Chile has, has gone about things, but how they diversify the economy while maintaining a green, a green stance and hitting that 2050 carbon neutrality targets, I think it's going to be very difficult. Hmm.

0 (12m 14s):
What were all the people who voted against Borg voting against why did they, why were they scared of his presidency?

4 (12m 21s):
There was a lot of sensationalist rhetoric around borage, particularly his, his proximity to the communist party and the communist party is, is an incredibly powerful entity. They have a huge membership. They're very active in much of the country, particularly in the, in the traditional sort of industrial bouts in the country. You know, anti-communism is historian here once said to me, is, is one of the few things that the Punisher managed to get to unite Chileans. And it still is the case. You know, when you talk about the popularity of certain politicians from the communist party, you talk with their popularity in spite of the membership of the communist party and, and birches a Boris's campaign was very close to the communist party. It was the largest party that was, that was part of his campaign. And there are going to be several communist party ministers, I think, in this government.

4 (13m 4s):
So I think that that was something that inspired people to vote can spark people are very scared. And, you know, there's obviously a sort of certain trauma around communism and Chile after Salvador, again, this presidency, which was brought to an abrupt end by, by general, Pinochet's who the time on the 11th of September, 1973

0 (13m 44s):
So it sounds like he sort of wants nothing short of overhauling, how Chile

4 (13m 51s):
Definitely. I think that it's such a profound set of reforms that he's suggesting and certainly rhetorically since he, since he searched onto the scene and this whole generation who have, who have kind of taken politics by storm entity, these are things that they've been, they've been talking about for such a long time, obviously what happens now, when they have to turn those promises into practice and how they prioritize these reforms is going to be the most interesting part of this. The other thing that certainly isn't miss favor is that he has a divided Congress, the right made gains in the general election, which is part of the first round of the presidential votes as well. So Congress is now divided. It's quite evenly split. It's going to be very hard for him to push through the reforms that he actually wants, you know, over the next four years, I don't think he's going to be able to change chilly and kind of turn it on its head.

4 (14m 35s):
But if it resembles something more of a, more of a social democracy in four years time than I think you could say that his administration has been a success and a large part of that, it's going to be done to the constitutional process, which is rumbling on in the background.

0 (15m 15s):
So far for the show comes from better help. It's a new year, which is always an opportunity to try a new thing. And if you're one of those people who has not tried therapy, cause you're like, I'm fine. Sure. I've got some crippling depression, but who doesn't these days? Sure. I'm anxious, but who isn't these days? Sure. I'm lonely, but who isn't these days? Sure. I have like this rage that I feel all day. I just want to punch offense, even though it'll hurt my hand, who doesn't feel that way these days that's, that's maybe not the best approach. They would say that you don't have to hit rock bottom to ask for help to seek it out. They would recommend that you seek it out sooner than later, you can join the 2 million people according to better help who are already using better help.

0 (16m 4s):
You can do that with video chat, phone calls, texts, whatever you want right now to explain this, who's get 10% off their first month@betterhealthdotcomslashexplainedbetterhvlp.com slash explain Support for the shelter day. Once again comes from sales force. Salesforce wants to help your business that use cloud software data to help companies create a digital footprint and what their Salesforce digital 360 program. You can have the Salesforce platform tailored just the way you like it. Digital 360 combines. Salesforce is industry leading cloud database to give customers as scalable data-driven and single source of truth for personalizing customer experiences.

0 (16m 50s):
And it does it all with your trust and data security at the heart of every experience, truth, trust, heart, more relationships, more revenue, more return, more success that Salesforce digital 360 Salesforce customers are sharing their digital 360 stories in fun films, interviews and impressive case studies go to sfdc.com/inspiring digital to see how some of your favorite brands use Salesforce digital 360, that is SFDC dot C O slash inspiring digital to get started today.

0 (17m 33s):
Okay. So John, we've got a new president in Chile. He's the youngest president in the history of the country. He has a lot of ideas of how to completely overhaul the government. And while he will try to impose those ideas, the government itself is being completely overhauled by this constitutional reform. Is that

4 (17m 57s):
Yeah, that's absolutely correct. The, the political system I think, is going to change markedly. One of the things that we're really going to see is this sort of disconnection between the political and economic elite, the people that, that effectively run the country and the rest of the population, I think that's a bridge that needs to be rebuilt. And that's certainly as possible through the constitutional process. I think that what we might see as a transition to a single chamber Congress, for example, we might end up seeing that kind of certain parts of the presidential powers at the moment like the presidential veto over legislation that Congress passes. I think that that may, that may go as well, that, you know, the president's ability to direct the legislative agenda that might go as well. So there were lots of things that I think are going to change.

4 (18m 38s):
And I think that politics, as well as society is going to become more, more equitable that said, you know, with a, with a whole new political system being implemented, I think that that makes a, this is a headache for any, any sitting president and sits in government. So Bruce has a lot on his plate. I think he has to be very careful what he does now and what he does in future as part of the political transition.

0 (19m 1s):
And he wants to make these big changes while there will be big changes to Chile's constitution. Will that work in his favor or could it work against him? Can he sort of marry his changes into the new constitution or, or could the fact that the constitution is being changed, you know, make his governmental reforms feel less legitimate?

4 (19m 27s):
I think that this is a true transition government. I think that whoever had won this, this presidential election was always going to have to be the one that oversaw this transition from one political system or sort of social socio-economic system as well to another. So there's no doubt there really, that I think, you know, that's going to be the top priority. And I think that's how this government's going to be remembered wherever it manages to achieve in terms of legislation and borrowers. Casey's obviously very much in favor of the constitutional process. He's backed as well by a lot of the, a lot of the convention itself, the convention, it was elected as broadly left-wing there were lots of independence. There were lots of voices from outside the Capitol Santiago, which has this incredible sort of gravitational pull in terms of economic resources in terms of kind of the political power in the country.

4 (20m 8s):
Everything is very much concentrated in Santiago. So that's something else that Barack has really talked about a lot. He really wants to kind of include the regions in the, in the political process he wants to decentralize. He wants to, it moves towards something more resembling a sort of federal model. I suppose, they've kind of governance because the regions really don't have a say in their own, in their own decision-making. Hmm,

0 (20m 30s):
No Chilean politician casts a longer shadow than Augusto Pinochet. And despite being a murderer, he's still beloved by, by many in the country. Is there a chance that Gabrielle Borge is, you know, a fresh start for Chile and that the country might finally be shaking off the legacy of Pinochet

4 (20m 56s):
Without a doubt. I mean, this is something that rhetorically he's repeated over and over again, this idea that he wants to kind of bury a general punishment's legacy. I think that the constitution is going a long way towards doing that, which is, you know, I think it's is a positive thing for chili because a lot of these things were kind of taboo subjects before, particularly before the social movement in 2019 people really didn't talk about these things. You had these divided dinner tables, which I think, you know, is the kind of the sort of classic image that you have of these kinds of post dictatorships societies, where they're just kind of irreparably scarred by what's gone before where the borage can, can kind of heal those divisions. I'm not sure. I think that that's something that's going to have to come from society itself. And I think it already is actually changing, you know, people that are actually talking here for the first time in generations, but you know, interestingly, now this generation has come to power.

4 (21m 43s):
These were the ones that didn't live on the dictatorship. They never really experienced what it was like, but they have seen the legacy and they have lived under the privatized education model. They have seen the inadequate public services, which are inherited from the Pinochet years. You see these incredibly evocative slogans come up from time to time? You know, when the Chileans were asked yes or no, would they like a new constitution or are they 80% of people voted yes. To draft a new one. And then at that time, there was this banner on Vail in the main square here in Santiago, which said that we are the sons and daughters of the ones that you weren't able to kill. And that idea I think is incredibly powerful. These are the people that weren't around at the time, but they have suffered the effects.

0 (22m 43s):
John Bartlett is a freelance journalist based in Santiago, Chile. You can find a lot of his writing about <em></em> at the guardian.com. Our show today was produced by Hadi <em></em> and Halima Shaw engineered by a FIM Shapiro fact-checked by Laura Bullard and edited by Matthew Collette and Noel king. And we use music by Victor harra. He's a Chilean musician and activist who was tortured and killed under a Gusto Pinochet's military dictatorship. I wanted to say a quick little something before we call it for the week over the holidays, the world lost a legend.

0 (23m 25s):
A few, actually, you heard about Betty White, but you might not have heard about the ecologist. Dr. Thomas Love joy. A lot of people know Dr. Love joy as the godfather of biodiversity. He practically coined the term. He spent much of his life studying the most biologically diverse place on the planet, the Amazon, and he eventually became one of its foremost preservationists. We all sort of take for granted that we've got to protect the Amazon. We got to save the Amazon. The cure for cancer might be in the Amazon, the trees and the Amazon are going to save the planet from climate change, whatever it might be. It was not always a given. Dr. Love joy was one of the first people to really make the case that we got to save the Amazon back in the seventies in 2019, when we were covering a story about a push to increase mining in the Amazon, we reached out to Dr.

0 (24m 15s):
Love joy to ask him to explain what was worth saving. I still remember when he came into Vox his office in Washington, DC in a full suit, wearing a bow tie. And I interviewed him in jeans and a t-shirt and thought this guy probably thinks I'm just some punk, but he didn't. He invited me to come to his camp in the Amazon over the holidays that year I went, it was one of the most incredible experiences of my life. And we became friends. He always asked me to call him Tom. And I always said, sure thing, Dr. Love joy. Tom died on Christmas day at his home in McLean, Virginia, you can read all about his incredible life and his work in the Washington post or the New York times or at the Amazon biodiversity center's website.

0 (25m 1s):
That's the organization he founded. I thought it'd be nice to play some of the episode we made with him before we go today, he'd want you to go see and save the Amazon to.

16 (25m 13s):
So when I first walked into the forest, 54 years ago, my first reaction was, Hey, what's the big deal. I mean, you go there thinking that things are going to be leaping out at you from all different places in corners. And in fact, all you see is a lot of green. And then after a while you realize you've never seen so many shades of green in your life, that you're literally looking at hundreds and hundreds of different kinds of trees. And then he began to hear things.

16 (25m 54s):
Then you realize they're always all kinds of things, making noises in the background, you just can't see them. It's sort of like an enormous symphony of organisms calling all day long and all day night, some might be birds, so might be insects, or this might be frogs, oh, there's Mikey monkeys. You'll have a bird which gives an enormous loud Wolf whistle of a call. And it's called the screaming P hot, all the males hang out and basically have a competition as to who sings more effectively. And it's ear splitting.

16 (26m 36s):
You'll have two cans, all kinds of birds, call Aperts, macaws carrots. And then my favorite one is called a Mont mot. It's a gorgeous bird. And it only will call at Dawn. And at dusk, you can almost set your watch by it. So if you hear the <em></em> in the morning, go Udo, you know, it's five 30. And then after a while, your eye gets accustomed, you see that this is an environment where life is built on life over long periods of time. So it's not surprising that, you know, it is the single greatest repository of biological diversity on the entire planet.

0 (27m 47s):
Support for the shelter day. Once again comes from sales force. Salesforce wants to help your business that use cloud software data to help companies create a digital footprint and what their Salesforce digital 360 program. You can have the Salesforce platform tailored just the way you like it. Digital 360 combines. Salesforce is industry leading cloud database to give customers as scalable data-driven and single source of truth for personalizing customer experiences. And it does it all with your trust and data security at the heart of every experience, truth, trust, heart, more relationships, more revenue, more return, more success that Salesforce digital 360 Salesforce customers are sharing their digital 360 stories in fun films, interviews and impressive case studies go to sfdc.com/inspiring digital to see how some of your favorite brands use Salesforce.

0 (28m 45s):
Digital 360, that is SFDC dot C O slash inspiring digital to get started today.

18 (28m 58s):
I think you're fully protected when you browse the internet. How about when you use a search engine and the things you search for, you get used to target you with ads that follow you around the web and that even with incognito mode, your searches, aren't truly private try a search engine where you're truly in control of your data and one that lets you customize what you want included in your news and search results. Neeva is the world's first advertising free private search engine. Try a better search engine at <em></em> dot com slash Vox that's N E V a.com/fox.