0 (1s):
Hey, I'm Sam Sanders. I usually host the pop culture podcast Intuit. But today, I'm guest hosting today, explained this episode, the youth in China, they're kind in a weird spot right now. For decades, it seemed China was on this path of endless growth. And so just a few years ago, the youth of China thought they'd have it pretty good. But that's not really happening right now. In China, the youth unemployment rate is currently around 20%. And lots of young people there are rejecting China's extreme hustle culture.

2 (39s):
If you feel just done with life and have zero motivation to work hard

0 (43s):
Anymore. There's even a term for this that

2 (46s):
Is called tongue peel. Literally to lie down flat. It refers to someone who can no longer be bothered to study, get a job date, get

0 (57s):
Married this episode. Are the youth in China, okay?

2 (1m 1s):
Or really do anything.

Intuit (1m 4s):
10 years ago, chance the rapper released a mix tape called acid rap. It was full of a certain joy and exuberance that feels lacking in hip hop today. I asked him why that is. I think s just worse. Like I think just worse in terms of public safety. you know, even the weather, like the Earth is not, not as lit as it was in 2013. Chance the Rapper on how hip hop has changed. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast,

4 (1m 40s):
Donald Trump is facing 91 felony charges across four indictments But. one charge in Georgia stands out.

5 (1m 48s):
The Rico case against Donald. Trump in Georgia involves 19 defendants And. when you have a case involving 19 defendants And the wide range of crimes that they've been charged with Committing. it creates all kinds of complications,

4 (2m 6s):
The ins and outs of Rico cases. And, what this could mean for 2024 This week on the weeds

1 (2m 14s):
Today. Today, explain.

0 (2m 19s):
Nancy Chin has written about China's youth unemployment rate.

6 (2m 22s):
I am an economics professor at Northwestern's Kellogg School of Management, and

0 (2m 27s):
She has a personal connection to China as well. I

6 (2m 30s):
Was born in China in Shanghai, and I moved to the US when I was young in primary school with my parents,

0 (2m 38s):
But she went back and visited most summers. She's got tons of family and friends in China, which means she hears a lot about what young people they're going through right now, and it's a lot. The unemployment rate for the youths in cities is sky high.

6 (2m 54s):
One out of five Chinese workers between 16 and 24 years old are not finding jobs that they want.

0 (3m 2s):
These numbers are so bad that the Chinese government recently announced it would stop publishing them, but the young people actually experiencing this and they know what's up.

6 (3m 13s):
Recently, we're seeing Chinese youth make decisions that are somewhat surprising to the previous generations. Hmm. Some of 'em are choosing just to not work and stay home. Some of them are choosing to take jobs in lower paying sectors or government jobs that previously a few years ago, you know, they would've sued for higher paying private sector jobs. We're hearing a lot of complaints about the 9, 9 6 work schedule. That's 9:00 AM to 9:00 PM six days a week.

0 (3m 52s):
I just wanna stop right there and say that again. This is what is expected in China. You work 9:00 AM to 9:00 PM six days a week, and the kids are saying, no, no, no more of that.

6 (4m 4s):
That's right. 9, 9 6 is a standard work schedule for the urban Chinese. Wow. At least in the private sector, that is a standard. You're lucky to get a job like that.

7 (4m 15s):
Jack Ma, one of China's richest men, a giant in tech.

8 (4m 19s):
9, 9 6 is the spirit that I encourage in Ali, Papa people, if you wanna have a bright future, if you don't want beef give up by the society, it wont be successful. You have to work hard.

6 (4m 35s):
These kids, I'm gonna call them kids. These youth, they just graduated. you know, they've worked so hard their whole lives. They've sacrificed so much to get through this incredibly competitive, you know, education system. China has one of the most competitive systems in the world. 32

9 (4m 53s):
Days left for college. Entrance examination competition is fierce as it is across much of Asia, and is considered make or break for every student's future.

6 (5m 3s):
You know, they stop playing, they give a playing. They just study, study, study, take these intensive exams.

9 (5m 9s):
It's easy to see why these images have gone viral. Chinese high school students connected to intravenous drips hanging from the classroom ceiling to help them study

11 (5m 22s):
Because of great study pressure, getting up early and going to bed late. It is helpful to take amino acids,

6 (5m 28s):
And not only have they made sacrifices since they were children, but so have their parents and their grandparents all to get them through university so that they can get a high paying job and a prestigious or happening sector. And these jobs just aren't there.

12 (5m 44s):
There are a lot of manufacturing jobs, China figures that half of them are gonna go unfilled over the next couple of years because young graduates don't want factory jobs. So there's this misalignment between the supply of highly educated, skilled workers and demand for them. The economy essentially hasn't caught up,

6 (6m 2s):
And the jobs that are there, they pay a lot less, not even enough to cover rent.

0 (6m 12s):
So then you have a lot of Chinese youth, many of whom have college degrees. They're saying, the jobs that I would want to take, they're not really there. There are other jobs that I could take, but I feel like I'm overqualified for it also. You want me to work too hard, also, you're not paying me enough. And like, it's not just that they feel this way. It's so strong and so deep. China has named this phenomenon, right? It's called lying flat.

6 (6m 41s):
Lying flat in Mandarin is tongue pink. Recently it's been used to describe this individual and personal rejection of societal pressures. And in particular, the 9, 9, 6 working hour system.

13 (6m 56s):
Lying flat is a labor protest movement in China, which is basically the Chinese youth revolting against the deeply ingrained culture of hard work and choosing instead to live simply cheaply and stress free.

14 (7m 11s):
I really want to lie, lie, lie down and life flight, and I don't want to do my job and don't want to achieve something.

13 (7m 19s):
It's an anti materialistic lifestyle and thriving for nothing more than what is absolutely essential for one survival.

0 (7m 27s):
Wow. And so then you end up with, and this blows my mind, there's another phrase, A lot of these wealthier young people who have finished school but can't find the jobs they want, they've become, quote, full-time children and their families and parents kind of pay for them to stay at home and just help out with the household, or do caregiving work for elderly members of the family. Wow. Wow. Full-time children has a nice ring to it. What's going on there?

6 (7m 58s):
A lot of the young that aren't able to find jobs are just moving home and living with their parents.

15 (8m 5s):
Tia typical Workday begins at 9:00 AM She goes with her parents for a morning walk and accompanies them to the market for a grocery run. She then prepares lunch for the family before taking an afternoon nap. TEI is 31 years old and lives in the city of Hto in China.

6 (8m 26s):
And the way they see it, you know, no one's happy with this, but the way they see it is that they're looking at jobs that are offering 7,000 r and b per month, for example. That's how much, you know, a nanny who comes from a a rural area to the city. That's how much they make. Wow. So after all the sacrifices they put in, and also with their expectations, they just don't wanna take these lower paying jobs. And in the meantime, they do have parents and families who are able to support them.

15 (8m 58s):
Her retired parents pay her a monthly salary of 8,000 renminbi, or around 1,100 US dollars. That is around 20% less than what she says is an acceptable salary for graduates in her city.

6 (9m 13s):
I mean, one thing we wanna keep in mind is that the current generation, no matter how bad unemployment is or how bad the problems are, when we talk about the Chinese economy, the current generation is orders of magnitudes richer than any previous generation in China at the same age, or at an older age even. Wow. Just because of the phenomenal amount of growth that China's experienced, so their families can afford to keep them at home.

0 (9m 44s):
Do the, do the young adults who become quote unquote full-time children enjoy it?

6 (9m 50s):
I'm sure you can find someone who's happy about it, but I don't know anyone like that really. No. China's a big country. I don't wanna speak for everyone, but every young person that I know or that I hear about, no one's happy about it. I would say the best way to describe it is that they're in a funk.

0 (10m 9s):
When you talk to these quote unquote full-time children, when you talk to people who are quote unquote lying flat, what are they telling you about what their life is like and how it feels?

6 (10m 21s):
So here, experiences vary a lot. I just spoke recently to a young woman who decided to move to her hometown in the west away from Beijing. And the reason she did this was because she was getting laid off from her private sector job. She's an accounting degree, she's 24, and she's getting laid off, or, you know, she was offered a much lower paying job, but that wouldn't have been enough to cover even one fourth of rent in the city center of Beijing. So in the end, she decided to go home to the west where her parents have a smaller business just to help her parents out and to help them take care of her elderly grandparents.

6 (11m 1s):
And she felt like this was the best way for her to repay her parents and to help them out. And her family, after everything they've given her. She's really finding a silver lining and making the best of it. Another young woman I know in Shanghai, who happens to be my cousin, she's actually looking for a job now. She's just having the hardest time. you know, she graduated from a pretty good university two years ago, then she got a master's degree overseas. Mm. And in past years, 10 years ago, this would've been made her very desirable in the job market. But right now she's just can't get a job for every job she interviews for, there's 40 other applicants.

6 (11m 46s):
Mm. And behind closed doors, the people who are doing, making the decisions to hire, they're very open about how they just don't wanna hire young women. Mm. And the reason is because, you know, China doesn't have enough babies. So the government has a lot of policies recently to encourage fertility rates. So now you're allowed to have three kids.

0 (12m 6s):
This is wild, because for the longest time, you could only have one. And that was the policy

16 (12m 12s):
From great-Great Grandmother down through five generations. This family is a perfect example of China's population crisis. There's only one great-great grandchild.

6 (12m 25s):
So these children who are all only children who've had so much pressure on them growing up, are now the ones who can't get jobs. Wow. But now that they're on the labor market, a lot of employers are thinking, well, maybe you guys will have three kids. And with all this maternity and paternity leave, that comes up to many, many years of missed work that we have to pay for as a company. Wow. And the way that Chinese culture works, they think, well, if you're a guy, you're just gonna work and your wife and your parents will take care of the kid. But if you're a young woman, you're not gonna work. Mm. And since it's a buyer's market when it comes to hiring, they just don't wanna hire a young woman

0 (13m 5s):
Because they think they're gonna lose them for years anyway when they have children. Yeah.

6 (13m 9s):
Wow. And this is an open secret.

0 (13m 16s):
What do the older folks in China think of all of this? And what do government officials think of all of this? It's kind of not in line with what I think China's leadership's mission for the country was, is

6 (13m 28s):
Older people and families are torn, you know? you know, on the one hand, they're the ones that put in so much resources and time and money so that their children, grandchildren can be successful in this really competitive school system. All of this was so that their kids can get really great jobs in cities. So they're really disappointed. I mean, they're just as disappointed, maybe even more so than the youth themselves. So on the one hand, they just feel really bad for the kids, and they have the resources to support them. On the other hand, they also feel very at lost about, you know, what to tell the younger generation, because this idea of not working goes against their own values.

6 (14m 16s):
Yeah. you know, China was very, very poor only 30 years ago. And some places, you know, 10 years ago or even now, and for the grandparents generation, when they think about 50, 60 years ago, where they came from, really, you know, all of their values are about doing whatever it takes just to survive. Mm. So if there are jobs, and there are jobs in China, they just don't pay as well. So for the older generation, their own work ethics are such that, you know, if there's a job that gives you bread, you just take it. You just take the best job. Mm. 9, 9, 6, like whatever. We didn't even have hours before. you

1 (14m 51s):
Know, you just do whatever it takes to survive.

0 (14m 55s):
Yeah. In my day, they were walking uphill both ways to get to work and they didn't complain. That's right. Yeah. I hear that

1 (15m 7s):
Chinese

0 (15m 7s):
Youth are frustrated. Chinese parents are concerned. Coming up, we find out what their government thinks about all of this.

Noom (15m 18s):
Support for today's show comes from Noom. That's noon backwards, Noom. There's a lot of advice out there about what you should and shouldn't eat, but Noom is focused on why you eat. Noom uses science and personalization to help you manage your weight for the long-term. Noom psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors, and you decide how Noom fits into your life, not the other way around. Sarah Frank, she works on the business side of things at Vox Media, and she had the chance to try out Noom. I'm someone who likes to do the New York Times News quiz every week. And Noom has a similar quiz each day where you can take a quiz about healthy eating. And I noticed that I definitely was getting some of those answers wrong at the beginning, and I started to really get a sense of how my behaviors impact what I eat. You Can sign up for your trial today at Noom dot com. That's N O O m.com. Moon backwards to sign up for your trial today. Day.

The Pitch from Vox Media (16m 29s):
I'm Josh Muccio, host of the Pitch from Vox Media. People describe the pitch as the Antis Shark Tank. And I actually agree, take everything you think you know about venture capital startups and fundraising, and throw it out. Because on my show, you'll hear the true story of how these deals get done. On our upcoming season. You'll hear legendary investors like Charles Hudson and Elizabeth Yin invest over a million dollars in the startups featured on our show. And let me be clear, none of this is staged. Each episode of the pitch features real entrepreneurs pitching real investors for real money. Then we go the extra mile to tell the true story of what happens after everyone shakes hands and walks out of the room. Listen to season 10 of the Pitch podcast to learn from the smartest investors and founders in the world. New episodes drop on Wednesdays. Follow the pitch for free. Wherever you listen,

0 (17m 31s):
The Chinese government has talked a bit about the Youngs and how they're feeling. And the message has been, buck up, get to work this lying flat thing unpatriotic. So that's one way to motivate people. Nancy Chin says, the government is taking this seriously, though

6 (17m 51s):
The Chinese government is very concerned about youth and employment, and they should be. Every country that has high youth and employment rates is very concerned for economic and social reasons. China is facing an an inevitable economic slowdown.

20 (18m 7s):
China's Juan is at a 16 year low, and the country appears to be experiencing deflation. Economists say these are signs. China could be facing an extended economic downturn.

6 (18m 19s):
You know, it was growing at 10% per year for decades. Everyone knew that it had to slow down. Now it's slowing down to three to 5%. And that's a really healthy number. The United States and European economies grow at three to 5% on average when things are going well. So there's nothing wrong with three to 5%. That said, a slowdown from 10 to three to five will mean less jobs. And that's what we're seeing now, that a lot of those job reductions are happening for the youth. The population in the meantime is aging. So there are fewer younger workers and older workers. So more than ever before, it needs a generation of very productive young workers.

6 (19m 3s):
So the fact that these young workers can't find jobs and that they're unhappy or disillusioned or depressed, it's just not a good thing for the government.

0 (19m 16s):
It's probably safe to say that Chinese leadership didn't expect for China to end up in this position because for decades, the story of China's economy was boom, boom, boom. you know, beginning in 1978,

21 (19m 33s):
That's when Dun Xiaoping was in charge. Today he's known as the architect of modern China for the major reforms. He pushed through,

0 (19m 42s):
You know, this era of reform and opening the Chinese economy to the world. It was incredibly successful.

21 (19m 48s):
China kickstarted a 45 year transformation that took it from a largely agricultural society to the economic powerhouse. We know today,

0 (19m 58s):
From 1978 to now, according to the World Bank, 800 million Chinese people were taken out of poverty.

22 (20m 5s):
Millions of people in rural China have been relocated to apartment buildings in upgraded townships. Here. Almost everything is new, including the roads in the schools.

0 (20m 16s):
And we see now a China that is strong on the world stage and can compete with America.

23 (20m 23s):
Beijing leads the world in 37, outta 44 critical technologies, and is in a position to become the world's top technology superpower. The United States leads in just seven critical technologies, including space launch systems and quantum computing.

0 (20m 41s):
How unexpected is where China's youth are right now, and what it says about the economy? Did anyone see this coming?

6 (20m 50s):
For decades, economists and policy makers inside and outside of China have foreseen the slowdown of macroeconomic growth. Huh? Everyone knew that 10% wasn't sustainable forever. 10 years ago, the World Bank together with a Chinese standing council, co-wrote a report called the China 2030 report. Mm. And in that report, they explicitly state that they expect China's growth rate to slow down to 8%, and then at some 0.5% by 2030 at the latest. Wow. So that the writing was on the wall. That said what wasn't clear was when the slowdown would happen, how fast the slowdown would happen, and where it would happen.

6 (21m 33s):
So a lot of people expected that the high skilled sectors like tech, finance, pharmaceuticals, biochemical engineering, that those are the sectors that would've kept growing or you know, grew more than others. And what's really surprising in the current scenario is that those are the sectors that are getting hit the hardest. Hmm. Which is contributing to youth and employment, because those are the sectors that college graduates we're hoping to work for.

0 (22m 9s):
What will it take to fix this?

6 (22m 11s):
The youth unemployment problem is complicated to fix because you know, it's an outcome of many different factors that are interacting, economic, societal, cultural. And to make it better, a couple of different things need to happen and they will happen. So one is some of the youth will just end up taking lower paying jobs. Some youth will stop looking for jobs and drop out of the labor force. And then, you know, from the part of policy, from the part of the government, the government really needs to focus on how to encourage investment in the private sector or even in the state sector.

6 (22m 53s):
It just really need to focus on how to give people a sense of confidence in the economy. Not implement policies that freak out investors or businesses.

0 (23m 4s):
You know, when I hear you talking about Chinese 20 and 30 somethings, having a bit of malaise and checking out, A lot of it feels very particular to China's economic reality right now. But also, there are generations of folks across the world who feel like they're never gonna get what their parents had, no matter how hard they work. Are Chinese youth saying something about hustle culture and stagnation that is really just specific to China? Or are they really saying things that a lot of youth across the globe are feeling, even if not to those extremes?

6 (23m 43s):
I think what the Chinese youth are feeling, this disaffection and this disappointment, that they can't be as successful as they hoped they would be, no matter how hard they work. This is a pretty common feeling for youth around the world. Hmm. The main thing that pops out to me when I think of the Chinese youth that's different from other youth, it's a sense of loneliness. Mm. Because they don't have siblings.

1 (24m 6s):
Oh,

6 (24m 7s):
The only child situation is unique to China and this generation of Chinese. you know, even when I think of myself, I'm a product of the one child policy. I don't have any siblings, neither do my cousins. But because China was poor when I was young, we lived in these large, traditional, extended family structures. So I was very close to my cousins, and I didn't really understand that they weren't my siblings. And when I think of my family, I think of a big, big family with lots of cousins. Oh yeah. But for this current generation, because people were richer, they were able to afford larger living spaces, your own homes, and live as nuclear families. you know, the side effect, the unintended consequence of this was loneliness for the children.

6 (24m 52s):
Oh, they didn't have cousins to grow up around anymore. It's really just one child. You, your parents, maybe your grandparents. And also that intense setting. It means that the neighbor's kids aren't even around to play. Everyone's just sitting alone in their own apartment. And I think that loneliness is unique to the current Chinese generation. And it's hard.

0 (25m 14s):
I did not think that this interview about the Chinese economy was gonna prompt me to give my brother a call and say, I love you. But I think I'm gonna do that once we're done. Well,

6 (25m 25s):
I wish I had, I wish I had siblings. And I made sure to have two kids when I started having kids of my own.

0 (25m 35s):
Nancy Chen is an economics professor at Northwestern University. Our show today was produced by Halima Shaw, edited by Jolie Myers, engineered by Christian Ayala and Patrick Boyd, and fact checked by Serena Solin.

Intuit (25m 49s):
And again, I'm Sam Sanders. I host another podcast you might wanna check out. It's called Intuit. It's from Vulture. On this show, we talk about pop culture and entertainment and all that fun stuff. For instance, we just aired an episode where I interviewed Chance the Rapper. Yes. Chance the Rapper. All about the state of hip hop right now. It was so, so fun. Go check it out.

0 (26m 14s):
Any who? This podcast right here, it's called Today Explained.