1 (2s):
I have lived in DC for a while and I feel like I just took them for granted. I didn't come visit them enough. And now that they're leaving, I am I. wanna say goodbye to them?

2 (11s):
China's president, Xi Jinping recently recalled three Chinese diplomats from Washington DC. It's

3 (16s):
A shame for us that they're going back.

2 (20s):
They were not human These ambassadors. if they were the pained reaction of DC residents would be bizarre. Note they were giant Panda bears And. days ago they took a FedEx plane called the Panda Express back to China. China first started gifting pandas to zoos around the world. Decades ago It was a demonstration of soft power And. then in recent years, it's begun loaning them for large fees. But, those loan agreements are coming to an end. On Wednesday. president Biden will meet with President Xi in San Francisco during an economic summit. And we're told that Pandas will not be on the agenda, but that's okay. They're on ours. It's today. Explained

Atlassian (1m 1s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian software like Jira, confluence, and Trello help power global collaboration for all teams so they can accomplish everything that's impossible alone, because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. No matter if you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million Atlassian software keeps everyone connected and moving together as one towards shared company goals. Learn how to unleash the potential of your team@atlassian.com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A n.com. Atlassian,

Mint Mobile (1m 40s):
Ryan Reynolds here from Midt Mobile. Not only have I been the owner of Midt Mobile for the last few years, I've also been a customer. I don't know If, you knew this, but anyone can get the same premium wireless for $15 a month plan that I've been enjoying. It's not just for celebrities. So do like I did and have one of your assistant's, assistants switch you to Mint Mobile today. I'm told it's super easy to do at mint mobile.com/switch. New activation and upfront payment for three month plan required taxes and fees, extra additional restrictions. Apply mint mobile.com for full terms

7 (2m 16s):
You're listening to today, explained

2 (2m 21s):
Ian. Go ahead, give me your full name and tell me what you do.

8 (2m 24s):
My name is Ian Johnson. I am the Senior Fellow for China Studies at the Council on Foreign. Relations.

2 (2m 29s):
Ian. Do we know what is on the agenda for this meeting between Biden and Xi?

8 (2m 35s):
We have a pretty good idea based on issues that matter to both countries, but there's not a specific agenda that either country has released. So we know that certain things are gonna be brought up and because they, they matter to both countries and that there's gonna be probably a far ranging discussion on almost everything that matters between the two.

2 (2m 55s):
What are the top line items? What's important to both countries?

8 (2m 58s):
Well, I think for China it's going to be Taiwan. Taiwan is the island that it claims as a part of its territory. It's self-governing and it's democratic. It lies off the coast of China and they're having elections in January. Beijing

9 (3m 15s):
May try to discipline Taiwan's new government by demonstrating how formidable Chinese power military and otherwise is.

8 (3m 23s):
They want the United States to commit to not supporting independence for Taiwan. This is a red line issue for them. They would probably go to war if Taiwan were to declare independence. So I think they wanna really make sure that that doesn't happen. I think for the United States also, they want China not to interfere in Taiwan's election and let the people there decide how they want to be governed in the future.

10 (3m 46s):
America must stay true to our values and remain consistent in our support For the people of Taiwan who share America's people's desire to live in peace, freedom and democracy

8 (4m 0s):
Also on the agenda is probably gonna be something important to us voters, especially to Biden. And that would be the Fentanyl crisis. China makes some of the drugs that are used to manufacture fentanyl and the administration is gonna want them to not do that, not export that, and to crack down on that kind of thing. We

11 (4m 19s):
Called on President Xi to work with the United States to stem the flow of precursor chemicals that are fueling America's fentanyl prices.

8 (4m 28s):
I think both countries are probably gonna also talk about the economy and why, how they can improve economic ties and things like that. And in general, I think also for Xi Jinping, it really matters. The optics really matter that there's the photo op afterwards. He is essentially over the past decade, turned his back on the recipe for success that China had in the eighties, nineties, two thousands, which was opening up to the outside world, reforming more pro-market reforms. He's turned his back on that and there are a lot of people grumbling about that inside China. So for him to be able to show, look, I'm meeting the president of the United States. We have a good relationship. Things are moving forward. That's really important.

2 (5m 5s):
China's economy has struggled this year and some very real ways. The US economy is struggling less, even though because interest rates are high and inflation is high, Americans seem to think it's struggling. Are we looking at this meeting? Are we looking at any particular formal economic agreements?

8 (5m 24s):
Well, I think it's an interesting role reversal because for years it's been China, which has had the economy roaring ahead and the United States, which has been much slower. Now we have China's economy slowing high youth unemployment. Last year there were protests for the first time Oh, my

12 (5m 42s):
God.

13 (5m 45s):
Imagine if your bank accounts were frozen without warning, where you've been paying for an apartment that hasn't been built. That's happening in China.

8 (5m 57s):
By the contrast, the United States, even though as you mentioned, interest rates are high and a lot of people are feeling pain because of that, the economic growth is still pretty good. It's near 5%. So that's something that China has roughly also 5% growth, but it's a much poorer country. So it should be growing a lot faster than the United States. So that'll be kind of interesting, I think for the United States at the summit in general, not just the with Biden and, and she, but at the whole Apex Summit to say, Hey, you know, our system isn't so bad. We actually also have fast economic growth, et cetera. So I think that's one thing that the United States can use in its favor. This is only the second time that she and Biden have met each other since Biden became president.

8 (6m 38s):
They met each other before when Biden was vice president. It's important because, you know, we don't know what kind of information Xi Jinping is getting. He broke term limits. He's now ruling basically for life. It appears he's surrounded by, by all accounts and by how we can observe things. Yes man, there's a fair amount of political turmoil at the top. So we don't know what kind of information Xi Jinping is getting. It's important that we Sit down face to face with him, bypass all of the handlers and so on. And just for Biden to be able to tell him what US policy is and what kind of things we need to have a more stable, long-term relationship.

2 (7m 22s):
How would you characterize what's happened in the past year? Is the relationship between the United States and China since that last meeting? Is it getting better? Is it getting worse? It is about the same.

8 (7m 32s):
I think it's gotten a little bit better. At the beginning of this year, there was the spy balloon incident where, oh yeah, a Chinese spy balloon was by all accounts, pushed off course, went over the United States, and then eventually US fighters shot it down.

14 (7m 46s):
Look at this statement coming from the Chinese defense ministry, the US used force to attack our civilian unmanned airship, which is an obvious overreaction. We expressed solemn protest against this move by the US side and reserve the right to use necessary means to deal with similar situations.

8 (8m 5s):
And that was probably a low point of Relations. But since then, there's been this effort to say, Hey, let's not let things get outta control here. We have two extremely powerful militaries. There are a lot of points of tension in the Pacific, such as Taiwan. We don't want to really lurch into a war. We have to be very careful about this. So I've seen more and more ties between senior leaders. Kerry went to to Beijing, Blinken went to Beijing, the senior Chinese diplomat came to Washington, et cetera.

15 (8m 36s):
The meetings are an important step in thawing Relations between China and the us. Even though Beijing and Washington likely have different agendas this week.

8 (8m 46s):
I think there's an effort just probably also 'cause both leaders need this relationship to be quiet. Hmm? To be calm. Hmm. Next year is an election year in the United States. Obviously Biden already is facing two crises on the Foreign policy front. One is the Hamas war and the other is Ukraine, which is still percolating along outta the headlines right now, but it's still going on in the United States is making huge commitments. We can't afford to have another crisis now in the Asia Pacific area. I think for China, the economy is so bad, so slow, they want to focus on that and getting that right and not bump into the United States and have some kind of a crisis there.

2 (9m 23s):
How could China play into the 2024 election?

8 (9m 25s):
I think it can only really play a role if there were some kind of a crisis. Famously, Foreign policy doesn't really affect the overall outcome of elections. Most of it are on checkbook issues, pocketbook issues. And so it's gonna be basically probably decided on how people feel about the future of the US economy and the future of the country in general, more broadly. If there were, however, a war over Taiwan, then people would maybe think, oh, is Biden really the expert on Foreign policy? He's supposed to be the season pro as opposed to Trump who sort of had this reputation perhaps for, for being outspoken and brusque and and ruffling feathers.

8 (10m 5s):
But Biden has got us into several crises. This could be the argument, right? And so I think it's really important for the Democrats and for the administration to tamp this down and to try to put it on the back burner and just make sure it stays there for another year.

2 (10m 22s):
Right. And if there is a crisis, I would imagine that some of the criticism Biden would get is that he's been distracted by Ukraine, he's been distracted by what's going on between Israel and Hamas. He's not paid enough attention. I mean, that's always, that's always a vulnerability, right?

8 (10m 40s):
It is vulnerability. Don't forget, like about 10 years ago, the Obama administration said we were gonna pivot to Asia. Oh yeah. We're gonna put behind us the forever wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. And, we were gonna put our effort on the future of the world, which is this global rivalry, If you will between United States and China, or co cooperation, et cetera.

16 (10m 60s):
As we end today's wars. I have directed my national security team to make our presence and mission in the Asia Pacific a top priority.

8 (11m 9s):
And that worked for a while. That was also a focus of attention of the Trump administration. But now it seems like we're pivoting back to the Middle East and pivoting back to Europe. And so I think in this context, we need to make sure that Asia doesn't become another flashpoint.

2 (11m 25s):
Are you based in Washington

8 (11m 26s):
DC? No, I'm in New York City. You're

2 (11m 28s):
In New York City. But you heard about the Pandas, right?

8 (11m 30s):
I did hear about the Pandas, yeah.

2 (11m 31s):
What does it mean? 'cause I'm seeing a lot of very dark talk about those Pandas going home to China means bad things for us. China diplomacy. Yeah. You think they'll come up at the meeting? Yeah,

8 (11m 40s):
Could be. But to me, this is sort of an own goal by China. I don't know why they insist on treating this like some kind of a trade deal. I mean, at the end of the day, the animals are not really endangered anymore. They could give them to countries around the world, but they treat them as some sort of proprietary technology. If a baby Panda is born, you know you, it belongs to China. You can never have your own pandas. And it seems like a really cheap scape version of soft power. You know, soft power should be, kids go to the zoo, they see pandas, they go, yay, China has got pandas. I wanna go to China instead. It's like, no, we're taking them home. And so I kind of feel like it's somewhat self-defeating.

17 (12m 23s):
I feel really sad about the pandas are leaving. They get, they should get more time to spend here than in China.

2 (12m 35s):
That was Ian Johnson of the council on Foreign. Relations Coming up China's loan of the pandas. Its Panda diplomacy has that time come to an end.

Atlassian (12m 53s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian software like Jira, confluence, and Trello help power the collaboration for teams to accomplish what would otherwise be impossible alone. Because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. That's why millions of teams around the world, including 75% of the Fortune 500 trust Atlassian software for everything from space exploration and green energy to delivering pizzas and podcasts, whether you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million, or whether your team is around the corner or around another continent altogether, Atlassian software is built to help keep you all on the same page from start to finish. That way every one of your teams, from engineering and IT to marketing, HR, and legal can stay connected and moving together as one towards shared company-wide goals, learn how to unleash the potential of your team@atlassian.com. That's at L-A-S-S-I-A n.com. Atlassian

Noom (13m 55s):
Support for today explain comes from Noom. There is a whole big weight loss industry. It can be hard to figure out what works for you. Noom wants to tell you a bit about Noom. Noom uses science and personalization to try to help you manage your weight over the long term. Noom says that their psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors, and you can decide how Noom fits into your life and not the other way around. Noom offered a sample of 4,272 Noom and 98% of them said Noom helped them change their habits and behaviors for good. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Vox. She works on the business side of things. She had a chance to try out Noom and tell us how it went. There were days where I was overeating based on my goal and days where I was undereating and Noom had a very clever way of also matching my mood to those days. So I could actually see after about a week that I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed, and days that I'm more relaxed, I'm eating more. And I know some people's habits are the opposite of that. You can sign up for a trial today at Noom dot com. That's NOO m.com to sign up for a trial.

2 (15m 2s):
Today,

19 (15m 11s):
People from every background, young and old, find themselves drawn to pandas because they're cute, they're round, they engage in antics that seems somewhat human-like. You know, they Sit down with their legs sprawled and crunch on bamboo like you might imagine a toddler doing, even though these are adult mature pandas. And so this is something that viewers really love. And the idea that having these animals as representatives of China overseas puts a friendly face of China in the presence of citizens around the globe.

2 (15m 52s):
E Elena Songster is a professor of history at St. Mary's College of California, and she's also author of the book, Panda Nation, the Construction and Conservation of China's Modern Icon. Now, before 1972, China and the United States were more or less enemies. And then Richard Nixon traveled to China in what was possibly one of the most important geopolitical meetings of all time, no shade to she and Biden and China gifted to Pandas to the us.

19 (16m 20s):
So when China sent Pandas to the United States, there were hundreds of people who lined up to welcome them

20 (16m 29s):
And best of all for the gift of the pandas, which all children, whatever age will enjoy. And I can include myself in that category.

19 (16m 38s):
Mrs. Nixon was there and other important dignitaries and officials were all there welcoming the pandas. It was written in newspaper accounts.

20 (16m 48s):
I think pandemonium is gonna break out right here at the zoo. Thank you very much.

19 (16m 54s):
People were as amazed by the reception as they were by the Pandas themselves and likened the arrival of the pandas to something that would be expected as if Ong himself was coming to the United States. Wow. And then subsequent to this, Japan normalized Relations with China. And so there wasn't an immediate expectation that that warming of Relations was also going to be accompanied by a gift of a pair of pandas. And they were received with even more pomp and circumstance and crowds in Japan when that display was first opened.

19 (17m 35s):
What

2 (17m 35s):
Is the Pandas symbolic value? What does the bear itself symbolize beyond sending? It means we're friends.

19 (17m 42s):
The giant Panda has never been formally chosen as like the national emblem of the People's Republic of China. However, it has been chosen as a mascot for the Olympic Games and these types of things. And its symbolic value is something that has grown over time, and I attribute it in a lot of ways to the politics and culture of the People's Republic of China. Prior to the 20th century, people in China didn't pay much attention to the giant Panda. You will not find brush painting or silk painting or silk embroidery or bamboo carving or paper cutouts with pandas prior to the 20th century because it wasn't an important animal in traditional Chinese culture.

19 (18m 36s):
I argue that's one of the reasons it becomes important in the 20th century, particularly under the government of the People's Republic of China, because you can divorce it from all of the kind of burden and implications of the Imperial period. And the communist government wanted people to express modern ideals in artwork. And so the Panda was a way to do that. Hmm.

2 (19m 5s):
Wow. How and why does the Panda go from a gift in 1972 to a loan today?

19 (19m 13s):
Yes, it was very clear to the Chinese government. This is a really powerful diplomatic tool, and it subsequently gave pandas to several other countries, including the UK and France and Spain and Mexico. But in 1983 there was a bamboo flowering. And that sounds like a lovely thing, but it actually means that a whole hillside of bamboo dies off it flowers and then dies off. It's part of the natural lifecycle. The problem for pandas is that they eat bamboo, and if a whole hillside of bamboo dies, it's hard for them to find food. There was concern that this might lead to Panda starvation in the wild, and as a result, the government thought we shouldn't be giving away our pandas.

19 (20m 2s):
But because Panda diplomacy was so popular and beneficial, they decided that they would loan pandas to other countries. This is also during the 1980s when China is opening up, you have Deng Xiaoping's market reforms. And so this concept of bringing in money was very much welcomed by China as well. So they started this thing called short-term loans. It was however not good for the individual pandas because it put the individuals under a lot of stress and came under tremendous criticism by animal experts. And so that was brought to an end first in the United States in the nine early nineties, and replaced with the model that occurs presently, which is the long-term scientific exchange loan.

2 (20m 55s):
And a loan, unlike a gift, comes with terms, is there money involved?

19 (21m 1s):
Yes. The terms include quite an expensive loan fee, and that ranges from 500,000 to a million dollars. Wow.

2 (21m 11s):
A year.

19 (21m 12s):
A year. Wow. And then the agreement is that it's a long-term loan, so it's a 10 year agreement. So when a zoo signs up for this type of agreement, they're committing easily $10 million over the course of 10 years to extend to China for the sake of this loan.

2 (21m 31s):
When does Panda diplomacy begin to stop working

19 (21m 35s):
Panda diplomacy? Yes. Even with these terms, you have to send back the cubs. You have to pay a lot of money. The model generally works quite well, but it stops working when things go awry. Most recently in the United States, there is concern at the Memphis Zoo on the part of both animal activists in the United States and Chinese medicines about the treatment of the pandas in the Memphis Zoo.

21 (22m 2s):
Right now, the Memphis Zoo is responding to anger on social media centered around its two pandas, Lola and Yaya. Earlier today, pop Superstar, Billy Eilish showed her support for a petition, which is demanding the two animals be sent back to China alleging they're not being properly cared for.

19 (22m 19s):
I can pretty much guarantee you that the Panda is a very precious exhibit and wouldn't be mistreated. But it happened that unfortunately for the Memphis Zoo, one of the Pandas did die there due to a heart condition. And the other Panda had a skin condition that was well known, but it made the Panda look less than ideal in terms of having patchy fur and this type of thing. And so because of that, what was very interesting about that is kind of brought together citizens of the United States and citizens of China, but they were brought together in opposition of the Panda alone out of concern for the Pandas.

19 (22m 60s):
And as a result, there is a lot of objection to even Panda diplomacy at all. If these precious animals might be in a situation where they wouldn't get ultimate care. What

2 (23m 12s):
Happens to the pandas when they get back to China? Do they have nice lives?

19 (23m 17s):
Oh yeah, they have good lives. They go to, well-established breeding centers that are generally speaking in or near the natural habitat of the giant Panda, and they're cared for by a slew of caretakers.

22 (23m 36s):
The keepers tasks during the day are a plenty. They also have to clean the enclosures, do space of bamboo and prepare meals for the 30 pandas.

2 (23m 47s):
Do you think the era of Panda diplomacy is over? We've all become a bit too cynical and savvy, and the world is too complex.

19 (23m 56s):
I don't think that Panda diplomacy is over. I think that Panda diplomacy is alive and well. But I think that it's shifting a bit. I'm confident that it's not over because it's still actively present in other countries. And so very recently, China sent a pair of pandas to Qatar to accompany the their hosting of the World Cup Pandas in Germany and Pandas in Russia. So I think that Panda diplomacy is alive and well. It's a very successful form of soft diplomacy because people adore the Panda so much. But there is a shift taking place, and you can see all of the pandas will be leaving the United States.

19 (24m 40s):
They're leaving Scotland. The pandas in Australia are under question. They're scheduled to return back. I know that Australia's recently has expressed a desire and hope that they'll be able to negotiate an extension or an exchange. The Panda agreements that are coming to an end are all agreements that were established prior to Xi Jinping's taking office. And you know, if you're thinking about this from his perspective, and maybe it's not him personally, but the perspective of the leadership, why would you want to have these important diplomatic touchpoints across the globe that are inherited from previous leadership?

19 (25m 28s):
When you have an opportunity to bring the agreement to an end in a kind of natural seeming way, you're not cutting things short or jerking the pandas back before their loan agreement is, comes to a natural end. But then it puts you in a very good position for negotiating new agreements on your own terms that are part of your own legacy. And certainly China will be in a very good negotiating position with United States if there are zero pandas in the United States.

2 (26m 8s):
That's e Elena Songster. Her book is called Panda Nation, the Construction and Conservation of China's Modern Icon. Today's episode was produced by Isha Artsy. Isha got to say goodbye to the pandas at the National Zoo before flying home to Los Angeles. The show was edited by Matthew Collette, who quite literally pumped his fist in the air when the Pandas left because he is not a fan of Pandas Serena. Solin is our fact checker, and Rob Byers is our engineer. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.