0 (0s):
Maybe you've heard the Chinese people have been protesting, but maybe you didn't hear. These are the biggest protests in China since Tianmen Square over 30 years ago, and they're about covid restrictions.

2 (18s):
They spread all around the country, including to college campuses, and they really are by far the most widespread unified show of defiance that a communist party has seen in at least three or four decades.

0 (33s):
Most surprising of all the protests might prove to be effective, they might force the Chinese government to back down. That's ahead on today. Explained.

1 (45s):
Wow.

4 (59s):
Sometimes when you're reading, you want to highlight a phrase you want to remember with the all new Kindle scribe. You can. It's the first Kindle made for reading and writing, because sometimes you want to make a sticky note on page 22 and one on page 34, or make a to-do list or sketch out your next big idea or highlight a juicy phrase with its included pen. You can do all that and more. It's the Kindle scribe

0 (1m 34s):
Today explained Sean Ramer. I'm here with Josh Chin, deputy China Bureau chief at the Wall Street Journal, who's here to tell us about the, there I say, historic protests in China.

2 (1m 47s):
So these protests began actually in a really remote area of the country. You known as Xang. It's in the far northwest, right on the border of kind of the doorstep of Central Asia. And they started because of a fire in a residential building there that ended up killing 10 people

5 (2m 6s):
Thursday night, just before 8:00 PM local time. And a blaze basically broke out on the 15th floor of this apartment building, apparently due to an electrical socket. And there's been questions since about whether or not residents were able to leave.

2 (2m 19s):
One of the reasons people died, at least one of the reasons residents suspect people died is that the fire trucks were obstructed by various zero covid measures. The rescuers weren't able to get to the, the building to put out the fire in time. It took them roughly three hours.

6 (2m 37s):
Videos show fire trucks unable to get close to the scene because the compound entrance was partially blocked. The video shows it's blocked with fences, tents, and metal barriers that are normally used as part of covid measures.

2 (2m 50s):
The backstory to this is that Xinjiang is a region has been under Covid lockdown for more than a hundred days.

7 (2m 56s):
Restrictions have been in place there since August. They are some of the most draconian lockdowns in the

2 (3m 2s):
Country. You know, people there like people else elsewhere in China, but more so are, are, are just run ragged by this experience by living under lockdown. And this fire really catalyzed sort of explosion of, of public anger in that city. And protests broke out there,

8 (3m 21s):
Demonstrators apparently arguing with officials and chanting lift the covid lockdown and trying to break through barriers

2 (3m 28s):
Too. Then they started spreading around the country.

9 (3m 31s):
Protests have erupted in Beijing, in Shanghai, in Wuhan, in Guang.

2 (3m 35s):
Jo, what's really interesting about this is that Jiang normally is a place that doesn't actually attract a lot of attention in China. It's a very locked down place. Even before Covid, the government there has been, has been carrying out this massive sort of ethnic re-engineering campaign there against Uyghurs, the the main sort of Turk Muslim group that lives there. But I think in this, in this case, because you have so many people in China living under lockdown or who have experienced lockdown in the past where, you know, maybe their doors were locked on them for the outside or their buildings were obstructed, a lot of people in China could look at this fire and easily imagine themselves being trapped in a building without rescue.

2 (4m 15s):
Because

10 (4m 16s):
During the covid zero policies, many Chinese people are, are living hell.

0 (4m 27s):
How does this tragedy lead to protest? How quickly does that happen?

2 (4m 33s):
You know, this, in this case, the, the fire happened on Thursday night, last Thursday, and the protests broke out the next day in a room chi in the city where they happened.

11 (4m 40s):
Extraordinary videos coming out of Xang province showing hundreds of people taking to the streets protesting against this zero covid chaos.

2 (4m 50s):
You know, this, I mean this does happen from time to time in China. You do have localized protests. In fact, it happens all the time. People get angry with local governments and how, how they're handling things. And usually there's a little bit of tolerance for that. But in this instance, the protest didn't stay local. They spread, you know, around the country, which is actually a real nightmare scenario for the Chinese governments. Actually. The, the, the one thing that they work the hardest to prevent is this sort of any kind of expression of nationwide, unified, nationwide descent.

0 (5m 19s):
How exactly does that happen and and how does this get to be the biggest protest movement in China since Tiananmen?

2 (5m 27s):
Yeah, you know, I mean it's, it's really interesting in China, right? Because you just, you assume it, this place is under such heavy control by the Communist Party. There's a massive censorship. And so it is, if you know, looking at it from the outside, it is quite surprising that people were able to, information was able to spread. You know, the one way that this did spread was, I mean, it was on Chinese social media. It was able to take advantage of a, of a sort of loophole or flaw in the Chinese censorship system, which is that there's always a bit of a lag between when some major event happens and when the c sensors are able, able to sort of figure out what people are saying and, and train the censorship algorithms to take it down. So I think that's what happened in this case. You had a lot of people posting images of the fire just on WeChat, which is the, the super app in China that everybody uses, and on other social media platforms, the video

6 (6m 14s):
Show Smoke and Flames coming from a high floor of the building, but the water failing to actually reach the fire. What adds to the tragedy is that those who died in the fire likely spent their last three months largely confined to that building, if not entirely.

2 (6m 29s):
It hit people with such emotional force that it spread like wildfire before sensors could, could really step in and stop it. Then over time it kind of morphed into a much more overtly political and angry sort of event where eventually you even had a scene of people doing co response where someone would say, C and the rest of the crowd just say step down comments party stepped down. Which is, I have to say, someone who covered China, lived and worked there, you know, 15 years. I've never seen anything like that. And actually, you know, in the, you know, on the ground, a colleague who, who was there in, in Beijing at one of the protests and, and you know, he did describe, you know, disagreements.

2 (7m 12s):
Not everyone was willing or felt comfortable with, with calling for CJ Ping to step down, but enough people did that, that you could hear them,

0 (7m 20s):
You saw lots of images of Chinese protestors holding up pieces of paper.

2 (7m 27s):
So yeah, that's really become, I think the, the defining visual symbol for these protests. And it's really a, it's a statement of, of defiance against censorship, but it really has become this clever way of pushing back against censorship, right? Because you have, as a result of this, you have these images of, of police sort of snatching blank pieces of paper outta people's hands, which is just kind of absurd on its face. And that, that image I think has really captured the, the imaginations of a lot of people in China. I think everyone who lives in China, who has lived in China for, for any period of time, really feels sort of deep in their bones, the frustration of censorship.

2 (8m 7s):
And so people really responded to, to that image,

0 (8m 10s):
The most powerful symbol of these protests has been a symbol that says literally nothing and, and everything at the same time.

2 (8m 18s):
Exactly.

0 (8m 19s):
And how does Xi Jing Ping and his government respond

2 (8m 23s):
The first night? I think the, the police were just sort of stunned. They didn't know what to do, so they were just kind of standing there not doing anything. But then on the second night, they were out in force. They've been out in force ever since, kind of flooding the streets.

12 (8m 35s):
Large numbers of police in personal protective equipment, patrolling the streets with RT Shields.

13 (8m 41s):
Barriers have gone up to stop crowds gathering again passes by taking photos. They're being forced to delete them,

2 (8m 48s):
Taking people to the side, demanding the hand over their cell phones, looking for apps that they might be using. They're also starting to track people down using their mobile phone data and data from apps that show that they were at a protest site. So we're starting to see the, the sort of retribution phase of the government's response roll out. At the same time though, what's what is interesting is they have changed their tone on the Covid policy in China. You had a, a health official in Beijing, slightly subtly acknowledged the protest. He talked about, he talked about problems that the masses had had reflected recently. So that was the first acknowledgement of the protest by the government. And then they, they have also started talking about the symptoms of the Elcon variant as being less severe than previous variants, which is the first time they've actually said that.

2 (9m 32s):
So it's clear, it looks pretty clear that they're trying to prepare people for el loosening of restrictions, but that's gonna take some time cause they've spent the last three years making people scared of, of, of the virus.

0 (9m 44s):
Yeah. Sorry, I laughed a little bit cuz it feels like that's been the narrative of this country for like 11 months at this point. But what you're saying here is that these protests will end up being successful and will end up moving the needle in one of the most repressive governments in the world.

2 (10m 3s):
I mean, it, it certainly looks that way and I, you know, I don't think you'll ever have the, the Communist party admit that it was doing this because of protests. It's just not in their DNA to be seen as responding to, to this sort of political expression. But you do definitely see them making some changes. So the the protests may end up having an effect. You know, it's not the effect that some people think. I think, you know, a lot of people see these images in Beijing and they think, oh, you know, this is the end of Xi j Bing, the communist party might fall. I don't think we're anywhere near that, but in terms of nudging the Chinese Communist Party to rethink the way it does, it handles covid.

2 (10m 43s):
It does look like they could end up having some effect there.

0 (10m 49s):
Josh returns when we do on today, explained Support for the show today comes from click up. And though I will admit I've never used it. I do have something in common with click up, which is, I think we're both obsessed with productivity. Good thing I work for a daily news show, plenty to do. Click up is a productivity platform designed to save you a full day every week. That means more time for clients, for meetings, for eating snacks. Who doesn't love snacks? Here's how it works. Click up houses all your projects and documents and goals and spreadsheets and anything else you need for work in one place. So you're gonna spend less time clicking between all your tabs and your different programs you're running.

0 (11m 33s):
You can help your team of 10 plus be more efficient and productive with Click up listeners can use the code, explain to get 15% off click ups, massive unlimited plan for a year, meaning you can start reclaiming your time for under $5 a month. You can sign up today@clickup.com with the code explained today, explained. We're back with Josh Chin from the Wall Street Journal, the Deputy China Bureau chief over there, also the author of the new book about China's surveillance state. Josh, what I'm getting from you here is that despite living in a surveillance state, these protests found a path through.

2 (12m 22s):
Yeah. And I that is absolutely one of the most noteworthy elements of this is, is that this is happening at a time when, when the Chinese government has unprecedented levels of control as a, as a result of their use of technology. And I think it says, it says a couple things, you know, one is the really just amazingly powerful statement about the, the levels of frustration and also the bravery of protestors that they know that they're subject to the surveillance. They know the government can know basically anything about them and is motivated to track them down. And yet they still came out and protested. And I think that's just, you know, I I keep thinking about the state of mind you have to be in to be living inside a surveillance state and still go to the streets.

2 (13m 6s):
And then the second thing is just, it does show that there are some flaws in the, in the surveillance state, it's not a perfect surveillance state yet still under construction. And so when people move quickly enough or with enough emotion or anger, outrage, it can actually overwhelm that system at least for a period of time.

0 (13m 23s):
I mean, you said that the, the government hasn't perfected its surveillance state yet. D does that mean that they may use these protests as a, as a test of their surveillance state and then make improvements?

2 (13m 36s):
Yeah, I think so. You know, I mean, it's sort of, surveillance state in China borrows a lot from Silicon Valley. Hmm. A lot of it's techniques, a lot of it's technology. No one does surveillance on a more sophisticated way than Google.

0 (13m 48s):
You mean the email client I have opened twice right now on this laptop that's running in the background of everything I do you mean that thing?

2 (13m 55s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. The one that reads all of your emails and, and, and tries to sell you things based on what it knows about your behavior. You know, and like Google, like any other Silicon Valley company, the the Communist Party likes to iterate. It's it's systems, right? It's constantly updating them and training them to be better.

0 (14m 12s):
What's the origin story of the Chinese surveillance state?

2 (14m 16s):
The origin of the surveillance state is actually, goes, goes way back all the way to the fifties. Mazo don, like a lot of other totalitarian leaders had his own sort of domestic spying apparatus. But then on top of that you had a, a, a Chinese scientist who actually was in the 1950s. He'd been, he'd been working in the US most of his career. It was a brilliant missile scientist by, by the name of Chen. And he was chased back to China during the, the McCarthy era.

14 (14m 45s):
One communist on the faculty of one university is one communist too many.

2 (14m 51s):
The FBI suspected him of being a communist. So he left and, and he had all these ideas that he'd actually picked up in the US about sort of new theories about the way that information could be used to exert control. He initially used them as, as like an engineering projects. He helped build the Chinese missile system, but later he started to apply them to society. And you have this theory that you could, if you could collect enough information and use the right tools, you could essentially engineer society the way you would like a guided missile. And these ideas kind of really captured the minds of some people in the Communist party and kind of over time became more and more popular. And so now you actually have x Jinping someone who, who's really embraced that idea.

2 (15m 33s):
And just coincidentally, you know, the way that AI technology developed in the last decade, he now has the tools, the data and the, and the sort of analytical tools to, to put those ideas into practice early days in China, sort of before the arrival of the internet. Obviously, you know, surveillance in China was, was kind of done by hand the old fashioned ways, or the same way that East Germans had pioneered

16 (15m 58s):
At its height in the 1980s, the stars, he had over 90,000 official employees backed up by several hundred thousand informants out of a population of just over 16 million. The level of surveillance in East Germany was remarkably high. Most citizens there were at some point to or never on the receiving end of Stai inquiries,

2 (16m 13s):
You know, but China was really interesting in that the communist party grasped very early on the power of the internet and of, of information technologies. And so they started actually building the foundations of this current system in the, in the early two thousands. And, and actually with help from, from western tech companies, you know, these companies like Cisco Systems, Cisco

17 (16m 30s):
Systems empowering the internet

2 (16m 32s):
Generation. You had Nortel Networks, which is now, now defunct, but it was a, a major Canadian telecom company and they all came to China and basically helped China build systems for sort of tracking and controlling the internet. And that was the, that was the sort of the beginning of all this. Hmm. And you know, over time obviously China sort of built what is now by far the world's most sophisticated internet censorship, but it was also always sort of looking for ways to apply that level of, of digital tracking in the real world. Starting in the 2000 tens, you, you had these major leaps in the evolution of AI that made AI sort of actually useful in the real world, right? So you now have, whereas before computers, you know, there were things like facial recognition, but it was really clunky, right?

2 (17m 16s):
It was, and it didn't work very well. And now you have computers and machines can identify someone in a crowd of 50,000 people in a matter of seconds. If they have enough cameras around your neighborhood, they can trace your movements where you've been walking over the past week or what, or or whatnot. So, so they have this just amazing ability to track people at a really granular level.

18 (17m 36s):
Already the authorities are using facial recognition to name and shame citizens, even for minor offenses like jaywalking,

2 (17m 44s):
The first version of, of the surveillance state that really sort of most complete version of it was built, built in Xinjiang where all these protests started. And that was part of this, this campaign to track and analyze Uyghurs in, in the region who might pose a threat to the communist party whose behavior sort of suggested future rebellion. And so, you know, they built this huge system for that. The

18 (18m 7s):
Authorities are using facial recognition cameras to scan people's faces before they enter markets. The system alerts authorities if targeted individuals stray 300 meters beyond their home.

2 (18m 19s):
And it really, at the time was the only place in the country where everyone was subject to surveillance in other parts of the country. It was, it was like certain groups of people, ex-cons, drug dealers, the mentally ill who were subject to that kind of surveillance. And with the Covid pandemic that changed suddenly the government built these systems that were able to track the entire Chinese population in ways that were very similar to the way they tracked Uighurs before. But so they, you know, they, they were able to adapt their systems and expand them and they're, they're almost certainly doing that now with the protests.

0 (18m 53s):
And are North American companies still building the Chinese surveillance state infrastructure or has that become less fashionable?

2 (19m 2s):
Well, it's, you had a really interesting development recently where for a long time they were, American companies were deeply involved in building the, the Chinese surveillance state. They were, you know, at everything from the investment level all the way down to selling them, you know, the, the basic, the sort of chips and hard drives that Chinese companies needed. But recently, you know, I think starting under the Trump administration actually, you know, the US policy towards China started to get more confrontational where

19 (19m 28s):
Having a little squabble with China, because we've been treated very unfairly for many, many decades for actually a long time.

2 (19m 35s):
And at the same time you had news about what was happening in Xinjiang to Uyghurs with, with the surveillance there. And so you now have a really unique situation, I think in, in, in the history of, of US China relations at least since, since t and Square where human rights concerns are a really major force in the relationship. So a lot of tech companies are pulling back or they're being forced to pull back from their partnerships with Chinese surveillance companies. And so they're no longer sort of directly building it the way that, that they had been in the past.

0 (20m 5s):
What is the thinking behind the surveillance state, Josh? Is it surveillance for the sake of surveillance or is it surveillance out of fear surveillance for the sake of control?

2 (20m 18s):
I think it's, its control. What's unique about the Chinese Communist Party is that it was, you know, it began as an underground movement heavily persecuted and hunted in 20th century China. And as a result of that, as being underground of being a sort of gorilla organization, it's always been very paranoid. And so it was constantly looking for systems that will allow it to identify threats present or or future.

0 (20m 40s):
Has Xi j Ping in all his power and wisdom been able to sell this to the Chinese people as a positive thing? Or is is the surveillance state something that's, you know, swept under the rug and never spoken about?

2 (20m 52s):
You know, actually he had, he had done a really remarkable sales job up until very, very recently before Ohn arrived in the sort of earlier phase of the pandemic, you know, after the come party had rolled out this expanded surveillance state. I mean, we definitely talked to people who thought it was creepy and weird that, you know, suddenly government officials knew their, where they had traveled or who they'd been exposed to. But people were sitting in China reading the news, seeing death counts in New York City and you know, London go through the roof. You know, they were looking around, they realized that China at the time you could, you could go outside, it was fine, you know, the hospitals weren't being flooded with, with covid patients. And so they actually were happy with it.

2 (21m 33s):
They sort of, they felt like whatever the inconvenience is, it was this life saving system, right? That was better than anyone else's. You know, the zero covid approach was the right approach and the use of surveillance to maintain it was justified. You're starting to see that really change now. And part of the issue is thatn just spreads too fast. Even China's surveillance systems can't really keep up with, and so what they start, what the communist party started doing instead was using the technology to lock people inside their homes. And so you had these really, these scenes in, in places like Shanghai, you know, this wealthy cities that had never really experienced the dark side of surveillance. They're suddenly locked in their homes and they're being, you know, they're being watched by like robot dogs and drones, right?

2 (22m 16s):
I mean, just, just really kind of dark sci-fi kind of scenario. And they are starting to feel what I think a lot of uighurs felt. I mean a similar to something what that uighur felt in, in Xinjiang, which is this the really sort of hard edge of communist party control. And that's gone on for, for some months now. And I think that's basically what these protests are about. People are fed up with, with, with the control.

0 (22m 40s):
But as you said earlier, the outcome here might be an easing of this zero C O V D policy in China, an easing of restrictions like we've seen in countless other countries around the world. Do you think ultimately this will be a win for the Chinese surveillance state in that they, who knows, they, they, they tighten the infrastructure and make it stronger or, or a win for the people in China who realized their power?

2 (23m 10s):
That is the big question, and it's one I think it's really hard to answer, partly because we're just in uncharted territory. What I would say is I, the surveillance state has the higher ground partly that's because unlike in United States with Occupy right, or with with protests, other places, even even in Russia, Chinese people have almost zero civil society to speak of because the, the Communist Party has just been systematically dismantling it. There are very few NGOs, for example, like non-profit groups. There are very few robust religious communities, church communities, anything like that, that, you know, you know, organizations outside the government that can help organize resistance. None of that exists in China on purpose.

2 (23m 51s):
It doesn't exist. And so, so these protests are happening and they're kind of really raw. They're disorganized, they're a little chaotic. I think that's to the advantage of the Communist Party. It's amazing that people did gather for these protests, but it's, it's also extremely hard for them to keep them going to, to, to sort of organize, organize this into a more of a movement. But what has happened, I think in, in China, which which is a, a problem for the Communist Party, is that there's been a just immense loss of political trust. And so the Communist Party can certainly crack down with the tools it's got, it can maintain control, but it has to figure out now how to regain that trust. Otherwise, it's gonna be in a scenario where it's constantly cracking down and that may or not be sustainable long term.

0 (24m 38s):
Josh Chen, wall Street Journal, he wrote a book with one of his colleagues all about China's surveillance state. It's called surveillance State inside China's quest to launch a new era of social control. This episode today explained was produced by Amanda Luellen. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Paul Robert Mosey.