0 (3s):
Well you're doing is madness

1 (5s):
Opening in theaters in the U S this weekend. Fantastic beasts. The secrets of Dumbledore

0 (11s):
Was you who said we could reshaped world

1 (15s):
One of Dumbledore secrets. He was in love with a man moviegoers in China. Won't hear that part. Warner brothers cut it. Since the nineties, Hollywood has grown to rely on the big bucks that Chinese audiences bring in, but it has to answer to Chinese censors.

3 (43s):
I'm sorry to disturb you heartless, but I've just received troubling news

1 (49s):
Coming up on today, explained a cinematic rivalry and anxious Hollywood, a lot of money and a Wolf warrior.

0 (58s):
Things are not quite what they appear

4 (1m 2s):
Support for the show. Today comes from oh, it's mattress firm. They got a new podcast produced by Vox creative. That's our sort of sales department over here at Vox. It's called, are you sleeping? It's all about your sleep and how to make it better. Are you sleeping is getting into some real fascinating, real life sleep stories, and maybe listening to someone else's struggle could help your own check out the newest episode of are you sleeping and subscribe wherever you listen

5 (1m 31s):
To

1 (1m 36s):
Eric Schwartzel reporter for the wall street journal, you've got a new book out red carpet, Hollywood, China, and the global battle for cultural supremacy. Can we go back into history a little bit?

6 (1m 46s):
Of course, what

1 (1m 47s):
Was the first Hollywood movie to earn real money in China?

6 (1m 50s):
The first movie led into China after the cultural revolution through an official channel was the fugitive

7 (1m 57s):
Checkpoints are going to do is get a lot of good people frantic around here and flood my office with call.

8 (2m 1s):
Well, shit, sheriff. I'd hate to see that happen. So I guess I'll take over your investigating

6 (2m 5s):
Starring Harrison Ford, Tommy Lee Jones, the guy jumping off the water dam. Big, massive movie here in the U S great airplane movie. I will say

1 (2m 21s):
Possibly great movie. Just in general.

6 (2m 24s):
I would agree. I would agree, but just like that. Perfect. That perfect kind of airplane film, right? Just like always happy to see it.

9 (2m 33s):
What happened? Why did it go right here off of this day?

6 (2m 37s):
This is the first movie led into China and this is in 1994. And a couple of things are happening. China's economy is modernizing and incorporating itself into the Western economy. More and more. This is still before China would join the WTO, but we're starting to see more of that economic outreach. The other thing that's happening is that Chinese movie are really struggling because after the cultural revolution, the movie theaters reopened, but really the only thing to see in China where these medicinal propaganda movies produced by the government and whenever pirated movies started coming into the country, TV started proliferating and even like karaoke, lounges grew more popular.

6 (3m 21s):
People stopped going to the movies because there wasn't anything good to go see. And so Hollywood executives who were in the region convinced Chinese theater owners, and then Chinese authorities to let in Hollywood movies to help goose those ticket sales. And the fugitive was the first one in, and then several others would follow to about 10 a year.

1 (3m 47s):
Okay. The fugitive was the first one in did Chinese viewers like it.

6 (3m 52s):
They loved it. Audiences would burst into applause. This was the kind of Western Hollywood spectacle that had swept the globe.

9 (4m 1s):
I didn't kill my wife. I don't care.

6 (4m 6s):
There was a reason why the American movie was the culturally dominant medium of the 20th century, but it was a medium that had been largely shut off to China in the 20th century because Mousay dong and his successors had kept most Western influence out of the country. So this was just a bit of a mind blowing experience for a lot of Chinese audiences. They went back again and again and again, but of course the irony is that the country was still severely under screened. There weren't a lot of theaters there. And tickets were so cheap that the movie was an absolute blockbuster, despite only making $3 million.

1 (4m 44s):
Okay. It only makes $3 million, but Hollywood clearly has an idea that there's something here,

6 (4m 51s):
Right? I mean, the math is very easy, right? All you need to remember one number, 1.4 billion people. When you do that math, you start to see how China becomes this, really, this, this place of like hopes and dreams. And then what's interesting is it goes from a place of optimistic projections to a financial savior because around 2008 Hollywood's business plans have to undergo a complete revolution. The first thing that happens is that movies like iron man start getting produced. You've

11 (5m 23s):
Been called the DaVinci of our time. What do you say to that?

12 (5m 26s):
Absolutely ridiculous. I don't paint.

11 (5m 28s):
And what do you say to your other nickname and, and debts?

12 (5m 31s):
That's not bad.

6 (5m 31s):
And these are movies that are massively expensive and require global audiences to turn a profit. The other thing that happens, I have to say as a child of the nineties, this was a very fun thing to explore is the DVD boom collapses. And this was fascinating because I think it's easy to forget now just how popular DVDs were at the time. But I was reading these articles in the archives about lines forming outside Walmart, because finding Nima was out on DVD and then almost overnight those sales plummet.

13 (6m 8s):
No, no, please. No.

6 (6m 11s):
And a lot of the revenue that the studios were counting on goes with it. And so China suddenly becomes this place, not just a optimistic projections, but a place that they need desperately to work.

1 (6m 22s):
I am assuming that when Hollywood movies entered the Chinese market, they did not just appear on screen as we would have seen them here in the United States, right? There was some censorship at play.

6 (6m 33s):
This is the other major element of the equation here, which is that every movie playing in China has to be approved by communist party sensors. So that means that Hollywood started to realize that in order to maintain access to this lucrative and essential new market, they would have to make movies that wouldn't get them in trouble. And so that meant submitting movies that would occasionally have scenes cut here and there like a line of dialogue or maybe a shot that was considered too graphic, but also just avoiding themes altogether. And it ranged from the, from the large to small, I mean, there's an example of a mission, impossible movie, featuring a scene in Shanghai in which Tom cruise is running through the streets.

14 (7m 18s):
One thing, what the hell are you doing in Shanghai?

15 (7m 21s):
I'll tell you what I see you.

6 (7m 22s):
And he runs by a laundry drying on clotheslines outside. And the Chinese authorities requested that it be edited from the shot because they thought it made China look more backwards than they actually were. And then there are bigger, bigger examples, like in the film adaptation of world war Z, the original cut of that film featured a scene that implies that the zombie outbreak has originated in China. And that is a choice that the author of the book had had very deliberately made. But when paramount was looking at the movie and thinking maybe this might get into China, they took it out preemptively before the sensors could even weigh in. They took it out to say, you know, this will, this will help our chances.

6 (8m 4s):
Nonetheless, it still didn't get in, but it was an example of some of the preemptive self-censorship that studios started doing to get into the Chinese market.

1 (8m 12s):
Wild curiosity did paramount take the China origin story out of the American version too. I remember seeing that movie in the theater and I can't remember they

6 (8m 21s):
Did.

1 (8m 22s):
They did.

16 (8m 23s):
And the origin could have come from anywhere.

17 (8m 26s):
Jamie I'd fly all the way out here to figure that out.

6 (8m 29s):
And this is another critical difference between China and other foreign markets. I think a lot of Hollywood executives would tell you, you know, we censor movies all the time. We send her movies for airplanes. But the key difference is that China has an economic leverage that allows it to change, not just movies that play in its borders, but movies that play outside it as well, because the country has shown in the past that if Hollywood studios make a movie that it doesn't like for any number of reasons, they will perhaps not let their next five movies in, or they might stall those plans to build a theme park in the mainland.

1 (9m 6s):
Is there a set of rules that China has handed to Hollywood and said, this is what you have to do. These are the steps that you have to take. If you want this movie to air in China.

6 (9m 16s):
Yes, there are literal rules. You know, there's some easy rules, like no masturbation, that one, you can kind of read a script and figure out, but then there are other more thematic rules, like no negative outlooks on life, no portrayals of suicide. Obviously things like government corruption is off the table as well. I should say government corruption in China. It's fine if there's government corruption and in other countries on screen, I think another crucial part of the playbook is just learning from example. So there have been a number of examples where Hollywood studios have not seen their movies get into China. And it allows all the other studios to learn what to avoid. Right?

6 (9m 55s):
So if Disney gets in trouble for making a movie about the Dalai Lama, everybody knows to avoid the Dalai Lama. If a world war Z doesn't get in or has to change a scene involving a zombie outbreak, everybody knows, Hey, let's avoid any implication that China is a source of ill will toward the world.

1 (10m 12s):
What's the example of the peak China fight Hollywood movie.

6 (10m 17s):
There was a moment where things got very silly, very fast. The movie that I would encourage everyone to watch as the premier case study. And this was released in 2014, it was called transformers. Age of extinction.

0 (10m 30s):
Yes. Optimus prime. My auto bots. They're in danger.

6 (10m 37s):
It's the fourth film and the transformers franchise starting mark Walberg and Stanley Tucci. And it is an example of a Hollywood blockbuster. Just doing everything it can to appeal to the Chinese market.

13 (10m 51s):
Yeah. Taking me out anywhere. I'm an American. Okay. Alright. Okay. Alright.

6 (10m 59s):
There are Chinese actors and actresses galore about a third of it takes place in China and Hong Kong and there's product placement everywhere you look and not all of it makes sense. There's a scene in which mark Walberg has to rate a convenience store in Chicago. Conveniently this convenience store sells Chinese protein powder.

18 (11m 19s):
Did you guys get

20 (11m 23s):
Protein?

21 (11m 25s):
I said the essentials. Okay.

6 (11m 26s):
Oh, Stanley Tucci has this like big moment with a Chinese juice box. It's everywhere when you start looking for it. But there's a moment in the film that I think in retrospect takes a bit of a darker turn. There's a scene toward the end when Hong Kong is being destroyed by the giant robots. And there's a rather random cut to a defense minister in Beijing. And it's not really clear why we're going to see him at the moment. And he's informed of the robot destruction in Hong Kong.

6 (12m 6s):
And he says, Beijing will protect Hong Kong at all costs. And I thought to myself, what a random moment in this climactic battle scene to include. So when I was asking executives involved with the film, they said, oh yeah. When we went to Beijing to get permission, to do all this China filming, we gave the script to the authorities and they had one request. And the request was at the, at the end when Hong Kong is being attacked, they wanted Beijing to come to the rescue before the American heroes did Years later. Now that we know Beijing's approach toward Hong Kong and how it has exerted heavier and heavier control over the past several years, this movie that came out eight years ago and starts mark Walberg.

6 (12m 57s):
It really starts to look like instead, actually, something of a prequel to what was going to happen to Hong Kong overall hidden in this Hollywood movie. That frankly, not a lot of people took very seriously.

4 (13m 41s):
Support for the show. Again, as you heard earlier, comes from the folks over at mattress firm, they've got that new podcast and partnership with box creative called, are you sleeping? They want to know what kind of sleeper you are. They want to know if there's been a time in your life where you've struggled to get enough good sleep and why that was. And they want to know what your questions are about sleep. And they want to answer those questions in this show called, are you sleeping in the latest episode, a guy named Dan, who's got some kids who insist on sharing his bed every night since the pandemic, which if you're keeping count is a whole lot of nights, will Dan wants some help easing his kids back into sleeping on their own.

4 (14m 22s):
You can hear about his journey plus learn about the history of co-sleeping checkout. Are you sleeping? You can subscribe wherever you listen. Are you sleeping well? Are you punk

1 (14m 45s):
Eric? In the first half of the show, you told us how Hollywood tied its fortune to the Chinese box office. But we left off around 2014. That was when transformers, age of extinction hit the theaters. And then when president Trump was elected, there was a big geopolitical shift because he launched a trade war with China.

24 (15m 4s):
I look at what they're doing with the way they steal our intellectual property, our intellectual rights. I mean, it's, it's, it's crazy what they're doing.

1 (15m 12s):
How did the politics affect the movie business? Well,

6 (15m 15s):
It came at a terrible time Around 2016 or 2017. Hollywood was all in on China. I mean, it was not uncommon for a big movie, like an Avengers release to make 400, $500 million in the market. Not all of that was flowing back to the studios, but it would sometimes mean the difference between profit and loss on these major releases. And so Hollywood frankly, took a bit of a duck and cover approach and tried their damnedest not to get sucked up in the broader trade war. And I will say like Hollywood, where the executives tend to be more liberal or progressive, there would often be executives who would kind of sheepishly say to me, like, I can't agree with Trump on anything, but I do think he has a point about China because for the past decade or so, they had been dealing with some of those same issues, whether it came to intellectual property protections or the, the requirement to do business with a local partner in China that would often result in losing majority control.

6 (16m 21s):
I mean, even companies as big and powerful as Disney had to deal with this. When, when Disney was building Shanghai Disneyland, the massive theme park right outside of the city, they had to take a minority stake in the venture. That park is majority owned by Chinese entities who collect a majority of the revenue on all the ticket sales, all the toy sales. So this was a reality that Hollywood had to deal with as a lot of other industries did as well.

1 (16m 51s):
In response to China, start to limit the number of Hollywood movies that could come into the country

6 (16m 56s):
First. So the, the number of movies led into China continue to flow. But what we saw was something very interesting happening in China, which was China's film industry grew more commercial, and frankly, the movies got a lot better. And Chinese audiences started to prefer to see Chinese movies to the American movies. And this should not have come as a surprise to Hollywood and yet it did. And so a lot of Chinese movies started coming out movies that most listeners will have never heard of, but still nonetheless would make 600 or $700 million at the box office,

1 (17m 33s):
600 or $700 million

6 (17m 36s):
Routinely routinely. These numbers, they make Hollywood executives like break into a cold sweat because it's that when a movie is a hit in a country that big the box office can just explode.

1 (17m 48s):
Tell me about one of those movies.

6 (17m 50s):
The best example is a film that came out called Wolf for year two. This came out about five or six years ago, and I think it could best be described as China's version of Rambo. It's about a Chinese soldier who goes to Africa and has to save a group of villagers.

23 (18m 10s):
Oh, Hey,

25 (18m 14s):
What about us?

23 (18m 18s):
Have to say, that's what I'm gonna come to everybody.

6 (18m 21s):
And of course he gets the girl and out drinks, the other men and flexes his muscles for the screen. I mean, it's a story that we know very well, but I think that we've always just assumed would have an American and a white guy in that role. And also America is very deliberately cast as the villain. The main bad guy is an American mercenary named big daddy.

0 (18m 45s):
And that was a person

6 (18m 46s):
Who routinely tells the Chinese hero that America will always be the dominant superpower.

0 (18m 52s):
Ah, people like me get used to get fucking used to

6 (18m 59s):
There's a scene in which the UN shows up to help and their helicopter crashes right away. It's not subtle. And the movie ends with the hero victoriously riding through the streets of this village, waving the Chinese flag. A couple of things were happening that made this movie at the time, the highest grossing film in Chinese history. One was that there was this surging sense of nationalism in China. And I just have to add here. One of the reasons it was so appealing and appeared so sophisticated to Chinese audiences is because Joe and Anthony Russo, the directors of the Avengers films were secular of producers on it. And they helped make it better.

1 (19m 38s):
How have Hollywood movies been doing in China in the years since Wolf warrior two came out

6 (19m 44s):
While things were going okay. And it was a place where you could ship a big movie. And if it was a big movie in the U S chances are, it would be a big movie in China. So something like Avengers end game did spectacularly well there, then there was a real shift and it started last year and the wall started coming up and a number of big movies like black widow and Shang G a movie featuring Marvel's first lead Asian superhero, and even something like Spiderman. These massive hits here in the U S were rejected for release from China. And it really is caused quite a bit of anxiety and concern in Hollywood because the business models of every major studio have grown to rely on those Chinese grosses.

6 (20m 32s):
And now it appears as though those grosses are more uncertain than ever. And there are a lot of theories, but no real explanations as to why

1 (20m 41s):
Even if Wolf warrior two, wasn't a smash globally. China is still trying to export movies like that into places where it has soft power. It still wants its movies seen overseas.

6 (20m 53s):
This is something that I gave a lot of thought to, because I think looking only at the prospects of a Chinese movie playing in the U S is quite myopic because it's a big world out there. And there are a lot of places where Chinese investment has really made the country and ubiquitous presence as, as America has retreated in many of those same places. So I'll give you an example. I spent some time reporting this book in Kenya, where there's been a surge of Chinese investment in Chinese aid as part of their belt and road initiative, which is this giant effort to reorient global trade routes. There is a soft power element to it.

6 (21m 35s):
And it's mostly in the form of this initiative called the 10,000 villages project.

26 (21m 39s):
In 2015, the Chinese government launched a project aimed to help 10,000 African villages gain access to satellite TV. It covers over 20 countries in Sub-Sahara Africa and over 10,000 villages.

6 (21m 53s):
And the satellite dishes are Chinese made and carry Chinese movies and Chinese TV shows. So I spent some time far outside Nairobi and in villages that received these dishes. And I would walk in, in the middle of the afternoon and see families watching Chinese soap operas, or Chinese Kung Fu one evening. I got together for dinner, with a family and we watched crouching tiger, hidden dragon. And it's serving as something of an introduction to this country that has appeared in their own country. Seemingly overnight,

26 (22m 24s):
The project has deepened and solidified the bilateral ties achieving a win-win outcome that brings China and Africa close.

1 (22m 33s):
I want to ask you lastly, where you think this is all headed for a hundred years, Hollywood sold an idealized version of the United States to the rest of the world. And now it seems like China is trying to do the exact same thing. And I wonder, do you think in the next 20, 30 years, the hero of Wolf warrior two, for example, will become as well known across the world as captain America,

6 (22m 57s):
It's entirely possible. And it's entirely possible for two reasons. One is the sheer force of China's ambitions and its willingness to eat costs and do what it can to have something of a blunt force impact in these parts of the world, where, as I said, almost overnight, they've shown up and built railways and given aid to government executives and presented their mode of governance as an alternative to Western democracy at a time when Western democracy has looked messy over the past several years. So I think there's that element.

6 (23m 38s):
But then I think the other reason why I think that's entirely possible is because Hollywood which would counter any such effort remains completely beholden to the Chinese market, despite all of the walls going up, that we just referenced, despite movies as big as Spiderman, not getting into the country, it is still too big to ignore. And that means that as the China us rivalry, frankly, becomes the story of the 21st century. The medium that we've often turned to, to interpret those stories cannot do so in a fulsome manner,

1 (24m 23s):
Today's show was produced by miles. Brian edited by Matthew Collette engineered by a theme Shapiro and fact checked by toy Domingus I'm Noel king it's today explained,

4 (25m 8s):
Thanks again, maybe thanks for the first time to the people over at, are you sleeping and Vox, creative and mattress firm for helping us understand our sleep? We all sleep differently. Some of us sleep on our backs on our fronts on our side, some of us need big body pillows, two pillows, three pillows, one pillow, zero pillows. The newest episode of are you sleeping features at dad with a lot of pillows, but also a lot of kids who are trying to sleep in his bed because the pandemic and he's like this needs to stop. You can find out all about it wherever you listen. Just look for. Are you sleeping? All right. All right.