0 (1s):
In season one of the max original series, love life. We met Darby Carter played by Anna Kendrick and followed her misadventures, finding love. Now in season two, we follow Marcus. Walk-ins a 30 something suddenly divorced literary agent in New York city whose dating journey is filled with unexpected humor and heartbreaking truths played by William Jackson. Harper. Marcus learns that define love again. He must first find himself love life. Season two. Now streaming only on HBO max

2 (44s):
It's to explained I'm Sean Rama's firm. And we have not talked about COVID-19 on the show in a minute. I mean, we've talked about how the pandemics affected the supply of consumer goods. We've talked about how parents are really mad about pandemic policies in schools, but it's been several weeks since we made an honest to goodness episode about COVID and I think that's a pretty good reflection of where we're at in America right now. We've reached the point where we're just living with this thing for better or worse cases. Go up cases, go down. Some people are vaccinated, others aren't that guy has got a mask on this guy. Doesn't seem to care very much about the mandate here at this Safeway supermarket life goes on. Contrast that approach with China's China's pursuing a policy known as zero COVID.

3 (1m 29s):
It means keeping COVID as close to zero cases as possible from day to day,

2 (1m 35s):
The Fang is NPR has China correspondent based in Beijing. She says China usually has less than 100 new cases of COVID

3 (1m 44s):
Per day. And that's mind-boggling because China has 1.3 billion people. It's still allowing in some international travelers. And that's usually where most of the new COVID cases come from. But domestically speaking, in terms of like actual new infections coming from people, living in China who have not left China for the last two years, those infection numbers are usually close to zero and China will take extreme measures to keep it that way.

2 (2m 8s):
Let's take travel. For instance, I wrote Amtrak yesterday, a little work trip. I bought my ticket. I showed up, wore a mask except when I was eating or drinking. That was not in terms of COVID precautions. Emily travels for work too. Her experience is a little different

3 (2m 25s):
To leave Beijing, my home base and go to another city. I first have to get a COVID test and that test usually has to be valid for the last 48 hours. Then I have to have a digital health certificate, and that uses a variety of inputs. My latest GPS coordinates anyone I've been in close contact with where my home addresses my passport number, which is linked to recent travel, which is also linked to my recent vaccination record. All of that information then is computed by the state health code app. And it gives me a green, red or yellow green means that I'm clean. You know, I can travel wherever I, I haven't been in close contact with anyone, and that will usually give you access to most public places.

3 (3m 9s):
So you now need this health code or health certificate. I mentioned to not just travel, but to basically get into any large shopping mall or a restaurant or grocery store. If they're being really strict On top of that, we have another thing called a Traveler's code. So the idea is it gives you a recent travel history and it will show any places you've traveled. That could be a high-risk area in China. And high risk is defined as anywhere with at least one COVID case. So the barrier is quite low, a failure to have any one of these three things and traveling could land you in quarantine someplace for 14 days, either in a hotel or in a government quarantine facility, which they're now expanding and building new ones across China and anticipation that they're going to be living with zero COVID for a while.

3 (4m 2s):
On top of that, there's also this vast apparatus of, of humans, not just technology, but people who work on super, super grassroots levels. I have what's called a community center or a show street near where I live. Every apartment complex is governed by one of these. And they're tasked with making sure travelers coming in or leaving the city are, are honest about their travel history. And they're the ones that also do mass testing. Now this is just like the status quo. If something really does happen, there is a diagnosed case in someone's neighborhood. The entire neighborhood gets sealed off. It goes into lockdown, it becomes what's called a mid or high risk area.

3 (4m 42s):
And then people do mass testing. Every resident has to be tested. At least once people are not allowed to leave that area. And anyone who has traveled from that area to another location should also quarantine in place. And there's a vast apparatus of people who will call you constantly to make sure that you're quarantining basically, you know, like contact tracing on steroids and China's international borders have also remained closed since last March. So there are very, very few people who are allowed to come into mainland China. And those that do get permission have to quarantine for two to three weeks

2 (5m 17s):
Credible. So that's your experience as a journalist who travels more than the average local? What does this look like for people in China who maybe don't get around so much?

3 (5m 27s):
Yeah. So for the most part, the things I've described are not too onerous, but for people who really get unlucky and just get hit by successive COVID cases, they really suffer the brunt of the cost of zero COVID and Railey this Chinese border town that's in some places, literally meters away from Burma, from me and Mar I think has just gotten really unlucky. So over the last 10 months of this year, so far, they've been under lockdown for about five months of that. And when I say locked down, it's pretty strict lockdown. People are, are asked to stay inside. They have to get permission to leave their houses and go grocery shopping just recently stores were allowed to reopen in the city, but people are still afraid to go out and, and, and run errands.

3 (6m 15s):
Because as I mentioned, they have to show their health codes wherever they go. So you actually have to scan the health codes as you enter into public spaces. And they're worried that if they scan a place and someone who is later diagnosed with COVID occupied the same space, the same day that anyone who went into that store could also get quarantined. And there's so little transparency and a small place like Railey that no one is willing to risk it. So everyone's going out at night secretly to buy food. No one's been able to work and people are sometimes quarantined in place very, very suddenly without any notice that, you know, the district that they're in is going under lockdown. Hmm. Did you

1 (6m 52s):
Talk to anyone there?

3 (6m 54s):
I reached out to a number of people and because they're are so desperate, there were many people who were willing to share their story. What's unusual about Railey is that because it's a border town, many people who live there are not local residents. Most people who live in Railey traveled there or move there because they're in the Jade business or they're involved in some kind of cross border trade with me and more so I managed to reach one J trader who wanted to use only as last name, Mr. Wong. And he had this crazy story of how his wife had been quarantined in place for 45 days because she'd gone to a market to run some errands. All of a sudden authority said, we found a handful of COVID cases in this particular city district.

3 (7m 36s):
We're locking it down. They did not care that she didn't live in that district. And to know where to go. She simply had to find a place to shelter and was stuck there for 45 days being tested every day with no news about when she could leave or what it would take to leave. And finally, her husband, Mr. Warren, was able to get her out because he basically pulled some strings and got her transferred to a hospital after which she did another two week hotel quarantee in it. But at least that was at a hotel and she had ready access to food. And there were a lot of stories like this. It's not just the arbitrary quarantine policies that were really upsetting people, because for the most part, people support these zero COVID policies. What they were complaining against was the inability to work.

3 (8m 19s):
We support the government and its policies, but that does not mean we should also have to go hungry, says ravey resident leads. Yeah, because no one is allowed to work. She cannot afford to stay in rightly but to leave would cost her weeks of self-financed quarantines. As I mentioned, many people travel to Railey because they are buying and selling precious stones and other commodities with me and Mar and they have not been allowed to do any of that. They even have been banned from selling their goods online because authorities are afraid that by doing live streams and, and filming commercials say online, that that could also create some kind of COVID transmission. So there were many people I talked to said they literally could not afford their next meal because they hadn't been allowed to work for the better part of the last year and a half.

2 (9m 4s):
I'm going to hear you say people on the whole support, these policies, policies that in the United States at least would be considered draconian, unthinkable infringements on, you know, personal Liberty. Why do you think people are still putting up with this after so much time?

3 (9m 21s):
People support these policies because for the most part, zero COVID has allowed China's economy to open up much sooner than any other economy. It is having a huge financial cost imagine paying for all this testing and monitoring, of course, but people can live relatively worry-free. They are not worried about getting COVID, even if they travel or don't wear masks in the country. And because they extreme costs are born by a such a small group of people, particularly in a town like Riley, which is very far away from the big cities of China. Their suffering is usually out of sight out of mind. Occasionally of course there are flare ups, but even at its highest, the number of new cases a day was around a hundred and that's considered extremely high for China.

3 (10m 7s):
The country goes into crisis mode.

2 (10m 9s):
China's COVID numbers were obviously second guessed early on in the pandemic.

5 (10m 14s):
We seem to be a little bit on the light side and I'm being nice. When I say that,

2 (10m 20s):
Can we trust these astonishingly low numbers from the most populous country in the world?

3 (10m 26s):
I have pretty high confidence in China's COVID statistics. The reason why I have confidence in China statistics is because of just how closely people are monitored here. Everywhere you go. You've got to check in with your health certificate. Mass testing can happen over an entire city and the blink of an eye over just one single COVID case.

2 (10m 46s):
You have any idea. If China's going to eventually loosen up these restrictions, considering that they seem to be working pretty well.

3 (10m 55s):
There is no immediate indication that China wants to lift these restrictions. This year, There are multiple reasons. The first being the winter Olympics are coming up. They start next February and China's going to be welcoming for an athletes, coaches, and journalists to come and participate and cover the events. And they're really, really anxious that, of course these people are going to be bringing the virus with them. And so China's already starting to take extra measures to make sure that it has everything under control before all of these visitors come to China. And so it is unwilling to relax at zero COVID policies before then, After the Olympics, there is going to be a major communist party, political meeting, and October, 2022 called the party Congress.

3 (11m 50s):
This happens every five years and the one happening next October is going to be particularly important because many political analysts expect this is going to be the meeting where Chinese leader, Xi Jinping, who has enjoyed huge amounts of popularity in part, because of his zero COVID policies, he is expected to stay on for at least another term as leader of the country. And he will announce that at the party Congress. So everything has to be perfect during that meeting as well. For those two reasons, most people expect any kind of relaxation to COVID policy has to happen at the end of 2022 and of next year or perhaps in 2023.

1 (12m 42s):
More

2 (12m 42s):
With Emily Support for the show today comes from imperfect foods. You know, when it's like snowing in the winter and you look up at the sky and you Marvel at how just every last snowflake is a little different imperfect foods is trying to do that. But with food, they want to bring you groceries that embrace fruits and veggies of every shape, size, and thigh, even, you know, because once you chop it all up and throw it in your, your salad or your pasta or your Curry or whatever the heck it is, you're, you're making your goulash.

2 (13m 30s):
It doesn't really matter what that vegetable or fruit looked like. And that's their whole point. They're going to bring you all the food in an effort to keep groceries and food, buying more sustainable and to reduce wastes right now in perfect foods. For a limited time is going to give you 20% off plus free shipping on your first order. When you go to imperfect boons.com and use explained 20 to sign up, that is 20% off plus free shipping@imperfectfoods.com with the offer code explained 20

6 (14m 2s):
Are there it's Peter Kafka. And I wanted to tell you that we've wrapped our latest season of land of the giants. It's the podcast that explores the biggest, most important tech companies of our time. This time we looked at apple company that changed what a computer is and then change what a phone is. Yeah, iPhone has given apple tremendous power, but it's forced the company to make compromises. It didn't expect,

7 (14m 24s):
Well, it says privacy as a fundamental and human, right? But it also conflicts with its need to follow the laws of every country. It operates in, especially in China

6 (14m 32s):
And it's app store generates billions in profit, but that doesn't work for everyone. Apple

8 (14m 37s):
Basically is preventing me a small business owner. I'm servicing my customers the way I've serviced them for many, many years for decades. And they're saying, no, you can't do it that way.

6 (14m 45s):
I mean, well, what exactly is going on with apple TV? Plus my

7 (14m 49s):
Sense is apple doesn't want to win this wars. They

9 (14m 52s):
Want to be extremely highly regarded for their taste

6 (14m 55s):
Land of the giants, the apple revolution for Recode and the box media podcast network. This season is sponsored by web flow and you can catch up on the entire series. Now, wherever you get your podcasts,

2 (15m 13s):
Emily. I think the story of Ray Lee is sort of astonishing, but how comparable is that to what's going on in the rest of mainland China?

3 (15m 21s):
It is not representative, but it does represent the worst case scenario that everyone faces in China, which is if you become sick or you're considered a close contact, your life basically ends for the next few months. I mean, you were put under excruciating surveillance, you're tested over and over again, you and your family and any of your close contacts removed by two degrees as put under quarantine. And this is a risk that people are willing to take. Huh?

2 (15m 47s):
How has this pressure sort of affected cultural or economic life in the

3 (15m 52s):
Country? Let's start with the economy. The zero COVID policies have allowed China's economy to rebound quickly from the costs of, of complete lockdowns from last year. But they are starting to take a toll. Now, particularly as Delta, which is much more contagious is starting to make itself felt in China

11 (16m 16s):
More than 1000 infections have been reported since late October, the resurgence has spread to 21 provinces so far and has been accompanied by unseasonably cold weather and the countries north conditions, which have helped the virus to thrive.

3 (16m 31s):
Travel is still down. Consumption is still down. China's economy is slowing, not just because of the Corona virus, but certainly exacerbated by it

12 (16m 40s):
In this most recent quarter. The third quarter China's GDP growth was only 4.9%. Now to put that into perspective, the second quarter was 7.9% growth. And if you're not following economics, let me just say that this is massive.

3 (16m 56s):
And all of these public health measures like mass testing cost a lot of money, but again, China is willing to stomach this cost in part because it believes that if it lifted zero COVID policies, but there was a sudden flare up and there was public outcry and they had to reimpose these lockdowns that that would cost much more in terms of public morale and financially than if they just keep the zero COVID policy is on until 2023, In terms of cultural production. It certainly isolated China because people are not traveling abroad anymore. Students are finding it much harder to take the test.

3 (17m 38s):
They need to study abroad and buy plane tickets and even get new passports from the Chinese government, which has stopped issuing passports. Unless you can prove you have a pressing need to abroad. Government leaders are not going abroad for state visits. Shujing ping China's leader. Hasn't traveled for more than two years. And so he's missed a number of big international functions where he normally would get FaceTime with say, president Biden at cop 26 this week.

2 (18m 6s):
<inaudible> the reason she drinking wasn't in Glasgow. President Biden didn't seem to buy that.

13 (18m 11s):
And China trying to assert understandably and new role in the world as a world leader, not showing up,

3 (18m 21s):
Come on Beijing is extremely careful about exposing Shujing ping to the Corona virus. And that was coronavirus. Was there publicly given reason? He also may have decided, for example, cop 26 was not particularly important. And he was most likely is going to have a video conference with, with Biden and the next week or two anyways, but COVID has been the reason that teaching bank has not traveled abroad.

2 (18m 44s):
How is that affecting China's relationships with the rest of the world that it's sort of self isolating right now?

3 (18m 51s):
I know it's hard to measure the impact of its isolation. I would say that it's not helping China's increasingly abrasive and more hostile foreign policy style. What had once blunted? I think anxiety about China's rise was that so many people still traveled to China. And there are businessmen who came here to work to start up new companies, students who wanted to study here or Chinese students going abroad scholars and government officials who had come here on informal and formal delegations and none of that's happening anymore. And so we are only getting either the public propaganda that China's putting forth limited numbers of reports from journalists like myself who have been able to remain in China and basically nothing in between.

3 (19m 42s):
And so I think that leads to easy mischaracterizations or misunderstandings between China and other countries because of that lack of in-person access.

2 (19m 53s):
You know, we talked about she on the show back in September, specifically about his rectification campaign

14 (20m 0s):
Is targeting ride hailing services, tech companies, insurance companies, education, and even the amount of time that kids can play video games. And what we're seeing in this great rectification is really the redrawing of the boundaries of business and society in China today

2 (20m 19s):
Does China's zero COVID policy fit into she's sort of broader reshaping of the country

3 (20m 26s):
And sides with the timing of these other policies. And it certainly reinforces their effects though. They're not related. I mean, even president teaching pink, I'm guessing would not have known two years ago that COVID was going to happen, but the isolation that it's afforded China and the amount of support that is coming as party now has because the widespread perception here that the party has successfully controlled COVID when other countries have not has given Xi Jinping and other party leaders, more confidence to pursue these policies that you're talking about.

2 (21m 1s):
Obviously it's not lost on anyone. Who's listening to this, that COVID-19 originated in China. And, you know, in some segments of the United States population, it's, you know, wildly popular to point that out. Do you think she is motivated in part by sort of wanting to, to rewrite the story of, of China and COVID

3 (21m 21s):
Definitely, and you see that happening already for the last year. One is in terms of China's quite aggressive, COVID diplomacy. It's been donating medical equipment and its own vaccines to other countries as a way to boost relations with those countries and also to recast its own role in this pandemic. Not so much as the country where the virus originated, but as the country that really stepped up globally to combat the Corona virus. And again, it's been able to use its zero COVID policies and its domestic success story as a way to bolster that, that narrative. And the second way it's refashioning its its own reputation is there has been rampant, disinformation and conspiracy theories in, in Chinese language sources that has started to steer the conversation away from one the Chinese city where the first human cases of the virus originated to suggesting that perhaps the virus started outside of China and it was brought in either on imported food or international luggage and then started infecting animals and people within China.

3 (22m 27s):
So within China, you'll find a lot of people who genuinely think that the Corona virus began in the U S and they're now calling for investigations and to how the Corona virus began perhaps in the U S or Italy, and was brought into China,

2 (22m 43s):
Which leads me to wonder how much China is cooperating with the, who is investigators, who are still trying to figure out how this all got started.

3 (22m 54s):
Great. So the, who did send a delegation of scientists to come and visit wet markets and talk to scientists and hospitals in China last year. And they were basically given no free access. The, who is now asking for a second in-person investigation, but China has blocked those efforts. The WJ there has gotten no response or they haven't really settled on the date or conditions under which they can send a second team. And in response, China, as asking for a parallel investigation to happen in the U S where they have this conspiracy theory that the Corona virus began at an American military lab and the who should look into that conspiracy theory.

3 (23m 35s):
There's no evidence. I should say that this theory is actually true, but it is being peddled at very senior government levels in China, the Chinese foreign ministry has suggested that this is perhaps how the virus began. And so it's been picked up by mainstream outlets and China,

2 (23m 52s):
It seems like from what you're saying, Emily, that, that like two things kind of are true at the same time here, China is taking this pandemic extremely seriously and to great success, but also not really helping the world better understand the origins of this pandemic is that fair?

3 (24m 9s):
Yeah. It's most concerned about its own citizens and that makes sense. And so they're not interested in helping understand how the virus began or at least we don't have access to that research anymore. And they have pursued a very successful policy in terms of numbers of infections. The question is how long will that success last and how long would that be considered a success? If other countries can begin opening up pursuing next generation vaccines and high levels of immunization, and basically going back to life as normal with very, very low infection rates and death rates from COVID because people are living with COVID so to speak, what will China's continuing lockdowns in isolation look like?

3 (24m 55s):
Will people start to finally get locked down fatigue when they see how the rest of the world is opening up, How China transitions from its extreme zero COVID stands now to what inevitably has to be an acceptance of, of the novel coronavirus is going to be very interesting. I wonder how quickly they're going to take on that process, or if it's going to be a long drawn out transition that takes place over years.

2 (25m 41s):
Emily, thanks. She's a reporter with national public radio based in Beijing. Our episode today was produced by miles. Bryan edited by Matthew Collette engineered by a theme Shapiro. In fact, checked by Laura Bullard. The rest of the team includes Victoria Chamberlain, Halima Shaw, Heidi, Milwaukee, D. And we'll read our supervising producer is Amina Al Saudi. Our VP of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson and Jillian. Weinberger's the deputy. We use music from Breakmaster cylinder and sometimes no I'm Hassenfeld today explained is part of the Vox media podcast network. You can find us on Twitter at today. Underscore explained I'm over at Ramas for

16 (27m 7s):
You probably know that smartphones really got started with the iPhone, but did you know there was an innovative app driven smartphone six years before it, I am Dieter Bohn and in a new documentary from the verge called springboard, the secret history of the first real smartphone. We look at a tiny startup that tried to create the modern phone before anybody was ready for it. Every little,

17 (27m 27s):
The future is going to have a fast inexpensive internet connection, and you're going to use it for voice and data and transactions and so on,

16 (27m 34s):
But nobody believed them, not the company that they worked at, not the carriers that sold millions of phones a year and not even Steve jobs in our documentary. We revealed the struggles of making a phone before any of the technology supply chain or even the mobile industry itself was remotely ready. All from a tiny company called hand spring, we took off

18 (27m 53s):
Like a rocket. Everybody wanted this

16 (27m 56s):
Product. You can watch springboard now on the free verge TV app and learn more at the verge.com/springboard. That's the verge.com/springboard.