0 (1s):
Today explain to spending a few weeks thinking about cities. As you've surely heard, they're having a tough go right now on account of the global Covid 19 pandemic.

2 (12s):
Property values will fall further, taxes will have to rise further, government spending will have to fall further. More people will leave and so forth and so forth. And we get into this urban doom

0 (19s):
Loop. And that goes through public transit

3 (21s):
Too, that is leaving just gigantic holes in the operating budgets of these big systems, like hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars per year. And the question is what do they do?

0 (33s):
But some cities have a really out of the box idea to deal with all the budgetary woes transit agencies are facing. Make public transit free. Is public transit a public

4 (50s):
Good?

0 (50s):
We're gonna ask the people in the know on the show.

4 (1m 0s):
There's a new TV show out called Swarm. The lead character is this fan obsessed with the pop star who has an uncanny likeness to Beyonce. This fan becomes a serial killer and she's black.

5 (1m 14s):
I'm so tired of seeing black women on TV play therapists and lawyers and doctors and people who just like have their shit together. We can be serial killers too

4 (1m 25s):
Swarm and what black women get to be on screen this week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast.

6 (1m 42s):
Complain today. Plane will be next. Stand here

0 (1m 45s):
Today. Explained Sean Ramas. Firm riding transit in Washington DC has been confusing ever since. The pandemic used to be you got on the bus, you paid, you went in, you took your seat. But then in the pandemic to keep drivers safe, the Washington Metro Area Transit Authority, AKA WADA said, don't worry about it. You don't have to pay for buses, but you still gotta pay for the subway. Then eventually they said, okay, everyone has to start paying for everything again. But something kind of predictable happened. A lot of people kept just walking past drivers, not paying. Drivers seem okay with it. And personally, sometimes when I get on the bus, drivers get irate when I try to pay, like stop showing off.

0 (2m 25s):
Cool guy, just get on the bus. So the status quo in DC is some people are paying to ride our buses and some people are definitely not. But while all this is happening, there's this big historic movement to make all the buses in DC free permanently.

7 (2m 42s):
The idea is fairly simple. We make bus travel and rail basically free by either making it fair free or creating a monthly subsidy for residents. This

0 (2m 52s):
Is Charles Allen, DC City council member. Arguably the city's biggest cheerleader for free transit.

7 (2m 58s):
We also then create a 10 million a year equity and service improvement fund to make sure your service, the bus is more reliable. Cause one of the things we learned in looking at other cities is you can't just make the bus free and pat yourself on the back and call it a day. You've gotta also improve service. Cuz if I just give you something that doesn't actually get you to where you gotta go for free, I didn't really do anything. I know

0 (3m 17s):
What you're thinking. This guy's talking about making the bus and the train free while improving service at the same time. These things cost money. How do you do that? Believe me, listener, it didn't make sense to me either, but let's back up a second to talk about how we got here. We have to talk about the global Covid 19 pandemic.

8 (3m 43s):
Public transit is nearly empty with ridership on many agencies down 90% as restrictions are lifted. How will people choose to get to

0 (3m 52s):
Work? A ton of people stopped using public transportation to commute to work and school. Public

9 (3m 58s):
Transit ridership is way, way down. Revenue has been slash tourism. The

0 (4m 2s):
Federal government had to bail out transit systems across the country. Well,

10 (4m 6s):
What we've been able to do, thanks to the American Rescue Plan, is get back from the cliff that a lot of these transit agencies were up against, as you said, over 30 billion being made available.

0 (4m 17s):
And of course, even as fears over covid receded, people didn't necessarily start riding again. And it wasn't only because they were working remotely, it was also fear.

11 (4m 27s):
A woman is dead after being stabbed to death on a c t A platform in the

12 (4m 32s):
Loop, a man set off a smoke bomb inside a moving train car pulled out a gun and started shooting as the subway pulled into a station in Brooklyn. Police say 10 people.

13 (4m 44s):
A lot of people did not want to return to the office even though their employers wanted them to return because they were scared to use transit in order to get there.

0 (4m 56s):
Tracy Hadden Lowe is what? The Brookings Institution in DC She told us more about the fear of transit that's affecting ridership.

13 (5m 4s):
I wanna be clear that like some of the stuff that's going on in society as a whole is also affecting the transit system, but it is not like a symptom of the transit system and it's not disproportionately concentrated within the transit system. I think we need to acknowledge the fact that when there is criminal or even just antisocial behavior in transit, it feels scarier than it would somewhere else because you are in a situation where you're in a confined space. So the standard of behavior is higher in our society as a whole.

13 (5m 46s):
In the past few years, there has been a huge increase in general antisocial behavior in alienation and loneliness. We have gone through a huge disruption that is incredibly scary and it is normal and understandable that people need reassurance,

0 (6m 6s):
But people have not been reassured. Brookings data shows Bay Area Transit ridership is still at only about half of what they had in 2019. Similar deals in Chicago, New York, Seattle and dc. Which brings us back to council member Charles Allen and his plan for free transit in the nation's capitol because you know who's been riding public transit this whole time?

7 (6m 29s):
The essential workers, the folks who are working in those hospitals day in and day out, the folks that were putting food on the shelves in the grocery store day in and day out. Those essential workers that everybody stepped out on their front porches and their balconies and banged pots and pans and celebrated, they never got off the bus. Why? Cause that's how they get to work. It's how they move around. Our bus connects our neighborhoods across our city in a way that rail doesn't. Rail moves people in, moves people out, our buses connect our neighborhoods. And so I think there's a very strong equity argument that's been made that people's light bulbs have gone off. So why this is so important as well,

0 (7m 0s):
Alan's plan is called Metro for dc.

7 (7m 3s):
So where we are now is we are about to later this year make metro buses in the District of Columbia. You get on the bus in DC there is gonna be no fair that takes place. We're also going to expand to a dozen lines that are gonna run 24 hours a day. Then the third part is this 10 million a year that we're gonna put into improving service. So you get a bus that runs more reliably, it's faster, it's better, you've got better bus shelters. And so that's phase one of venture for dc. Then the second phase is creating a hundred dollars a month subsidy for every DC resident, which is, it should take a little bit longer and that'll really apply mostly to the rail system at that point. It

0 (7m 36s):
Sounds sort of paradoxical because you're talking about getting rid of fees and improving the system. How do you do all these things at once? How does that work?

7 (7m 50s):
Well, keep in mind that our any transit system is heavily subsidized. We pay for it in the same way that I pay for your sidewalks. I pay for your roads, I pay for your bike lanes no matter how you get around. Government helps largely pay for that through your tax revenue. So we already pay the lions share of what it costs to run a transit system. Only 7% of Ahmad's operating costs are coming from that bus far revenue. So it's not a huge gap you actually have to fill by putting those investments forward. So we can do that. The second part is,

0 (8m 20s):
But 7% isn't insignificant, right? If that 7% disappears,

7 (8m 25s):
It doesn't disappear. The government takes on that cost in a 17 billion budget. That is the District of Columbia. We can do that. Hmm. On top of that, our recovery is strong in the District of Columbia. So this December 31st, our C F O, our chief financial officer gives us a report and says, you know, we need to be careful, be smart, but the recovery's happening and the revenue that's coming in has already paid for this.

0 (8m 48s):
This sounded really nice when I spoke to Charles Allen in late February, there was so much revenue in DC the city could afford to make buses free and to improve service, everybody wins. But the vibe seemed off. The plan would put DC on the map as a public transit revolutionary in the United States. And somehow the mayor of DC didn't seem that stoked about it. She wouldn't talk to us about it. She wouldn't really talk to anyone about it. What we do know is that metro for DC passed last December without her signature. So I had to ask Charles Allen about that. It's, it seems curious to me if this is such a great deal for dc if it's gonna put DC on the map as the biggest city in the country to, to take this leap that she wouldn't want to own it.

0 (9m 34s):
And I know you are not she, but why do you think that might be?

7 (9m 40s):
I don't know. I don't know. But here's what I can tell you. Sometime this summer, we are gonna have the very first fair free ride take place. And I can guarantee you that the mayor's gonna be there. The general manager of Wilma's gonna be there. I'm gonna be there and we're all gonna step on that bus together at the same time. And celebrate this moment.

0 (10m 2s):
About one week later, this whole plan fell apart.

14 (10m 5s):
That program is in doubt tonight following a new report from the district's chief financial officer.

0 (10m 11s):
Remember the CFO F o Chief financial officer of DC

7 (10m 17s):
This December 31st, our cfo, our chief financial officer gives us a report and says, you know, we need to be careful, be smart. But the recovery's happening and the revenue that's coming in has already paid for this.

0 (10m 29s):
That guy does an about face on free transit. Chief

16 (10m 32s):
Financial Officer Glenn Lee warns some DC tax revenue could fall by as much as 464 million over the next three years. He's proposed cutting the free ride program to save money.

0 (10m 50s):
Interest rates are up, real estate is down and all of a sudden there's no money for radical transit ideas. And the mayor Muriel Bowser here to four hush hush on the free bus bus. She breaks her silence, sort of. We got a copy of a letter she sent to her CFO asking all sorts of questions about where the money was coming from for free buses and service improvements On Wednesday, her budget proposal dropped. Metro for DC was not in it. Setting up a fight in the coming weeks. We called Charles Allen back to ask about his guarantee for free buses this summer. Well,

7 (11m 23s):
The, the chair of the council, Phil Mendelson and myself are pretty upset. The chief financial officer does not have the ability, does not have the right, does not have the authority to decertify a program. What they did is did not follow the law. And now the Attorney general has come in and backed us up. So to the riders, to the businesses, to the folks that are looking forward to a a fair free system, our guarantee stands, we are going to get this done. We are going to have this happen. The the challenge is gonna be that it, it won't happen in July. It's gonna likely happen sometime in the fall.

0 (11m 52s):
How hard are you going to push this in the coming weeks and months?

7 (11m 56s):
Both the chairman and I have said we are going to get this done in the budget that we're about to go through. So I think you've got the leader of our council, the chair, and then you've got myself the chair of the transportation committee saying we are going to get this done. And at the end of the day, I promise you, the very first ride, that is gonna be the first fair free ride with all the cameras and all the video being taken. The mayor's gonna be right there with us as we get on that first

0 (12m 20s):
Bus. I'm gonna hold you to that promise.

7 (12m 22s):
I'm gonna send the invite to the mayor. I'm gonna make sure

0 (12m 26s):
Free transit and DC is very t b d, but it's not just DC trying to make this happen. A lot of cities wanna figure out a way to introduce or expand free transit right now, Los Angeles, Denver, Kansas City, Boston. But there are a lot of passionate public transit people who think it's a terrible idea. It's

3 (12m 46s):
At least a distraction and it might even be counterproductive.

0 (12m 50s):
That's in a minute on today explained.

17 (12m 58s):
Here's a question. Can science tell us what makes something funny?

18 (13m 3s):
Girl science? Where have you been?

17 (13m 7s):
Comedians like Zuko, Karska wanna know

18 (13m 9s):
We've been just flailing around streaming in the

17 (13m 15s):
Streets and scientists best answer might actually come from Skittles

7 (13m 19s):
Is the jellybean or the the

19 (13m 21s):
Skittles one, the Skittle

7 (13m 22s):
Study. I'm supposed to offer you these Skittles. Would you like these Skittles? There's pretty good evidence that laughter is a form of communication. So then the question becomes, well what does it communicate

17 (13m 37s):
This week on unexplainable the science of humor? Follow unexplainable wherever you listen for new episodes every Wednesday.

19 (13m 46s):
So if this makes the podcast, people are gonna be listening and be like, this is not funny at all.

20 (13m 51s):
Well folks, here we are, former president Donald Trump appears on the brink of being indicted by a Manhattan grand jury. I'm Preet Barara, the former US attorney in Manhattan. My podcast stay tuned is about law, justice, power and democracy. This week I discuss the latest news with a group of former federal prosecutors who understand how the justice system really works. Joyce Vance, Barb McQuaid and Eli hok. We discussed the questions on everyone's mind like

21 (14m 21s):
Can you directly tie Donald Trump to the way these payments were booked and logged?

22 (14m 27s):
Are prosecutors considering additional defendants or additional charges?

20 (14m 31s):
Is this the kind of conduct that merits a charge of a former president of the United States?

23 (14m 35s):
I think this is a serious crime pre and I think it's one that I would charge.

20 (14m 39s):
And where do we go from here?

22 (14m 41s):
The presidency from prison, right? I mean add to the crazy

20 (14m 45s):
Add to the crazy to listen. Just search. Stay tuned wherever you get your podcasts. New episodes drop every

1 (14m 52s):
Thursday.

20 (14m 54s):
Stay tuned.

0 (15m 8s):
We are back at it with today explained, joined by David Zipper who just wrote about a potential transit death spiral for Vox. What, what we've been calling a doom loop on the show.

3 (15m 18s):
We are at a inflection point with transit, especially in the biggest cities.

0 (15m 24s):
Zipper says, forget going fair free with so many daily commuters now working from home. The biggest transit systems in America need to figure out how to

3 (15m 33s):
Survive. So the question now is like, are we gonna face a moment where trans agencies aren't able to find new revenue sources, in which case they have to dramatically scale back their service like the number of runs of the buses and trains. And if you scale back service that leads more people to not ride, now they've even less fair revenue and now you can just re repeat the cycle and over and over. And that's how you get the sort of nightmare scenario of a downward spiral where you end up with sort of just a skeletal transit service compared to what we've been used to for the last several decades in these big cities.

0 (16m 5s):
Obviously the pandemic plays a huge role, but have we seen this kind of downward spiral when it comes to transit before?

3 (16m 14s):
Kind of, if I can take you in a little bit of like a history lesson.

0 (16m 18s):
We love that

3 (16m 23s):
Transit's heyday, some would say including me, was sort of like around the time of World War I when street cars were really the dominant mode of transport for people in cities. The

24 (16m 34s):
Street car improves upon the whole strong buggy selecting. It smells

3 (16m 38s):
Better. You had New York and Boston like celebrating the opening of their new subway systems. It was really an exciting moment for transit. You might know that that is just at the time when cars were arriving in the us

24 (16m 50s):
Forget put models, forget hand models, forget supermodels. The model T is better than all the rest. Step aside, bicycles, tricycle, vans, street, cars, this is the new way to

3 (17m 0s):
Travel. So as cars really caught on in the twenties and thirties, that really did eviscerate these streetcar systems for privately owned by the time by the way, because people would, with a car, they would move to the suburbs and then they wouldn't be needing to use transit so much anymore. And these transit companies, the streetcar companies, their street cars were caught in car traffic. Now

24 (17m 25s):
The avenues

3 (17m 26s):
Packed and they had fewer customers and they were private companies. They had to not invest in maintenance and raise fares where they could. And that of course just led more people to leave. So in the post-war period, that's when you really saw this sort of takeover of these sort of flailing borderline bankrupt transit systems by public agencies. And also by the way, I should note the federal government was not being helpful at all. Hmm. In fact, they're making the situation worse by, for example, with the interstates that were funded in 1956 that you know, further sped up this move to the suburbs.

25 (18m 7s):
Much of the interstate system is designed to ease transportation problems in urban and suburban areas. And well it should for, according to the US Census Bureau, 90% of the population growth in the United States will take place in suburban areas this decade.

3 (18m 23s):
Where you end up with is like these sort of publicly managed transit systems that really caught on in the fifties, sixties and were, you know, around in the seventies that would get some money from the federal government to support their capital budgets. But pretty much nothing to support operations. Hm. Meaning like the actual, like the driver and the the the fuel and stuff like that. And that came from the actual Fairfax revenues and it came from state and local governments. So you have this weird situation where agencies these days still to, you know, up through Covid have had relatively speaking a lot more money for investing in new rail lines or buying new buses than they have to actually like run the service.

3 (19m 4s):
Hmm. Which if you think about it is just not a great incentive. But just to bring us up to sort of 2019, like the last year before the pandemic, you have these large systems that provide a relatively higher level of service than the smaller systems that just don't move as many people. They are really reliant with 25, 35, 40% of their operating revenues coming from those fares that suddenly as of March, 2020 basically disappeared when Covid struck, which starts that doom loop as you put it. So

0 (19m 39s):
What's on the table to break the doom loop?

3 (19m 41s):
That is the big question. I mean more than anything else, agencies need money. And I recently wrote a, an article for Vox and nobody I talked to in the course of researching that article really expects Congress to come in again as a day of sex machin and providing the money that's just not likely to happen with the Republican house. So that leaves states and it leaves regions, state budgets, regional referenda to provide support and there are some identified opportunities like for example, congestion pricing in New York City

27 (20m 17s):
Drivers will be charged to drive into Manhattan's central business district, which is the area below 60th street.

3 (20m 24s):
And that money can't fund operations but it can't fund maintenance, which is super useful for providing high quality service. Beyond that though, this becomes a really interesting and nuanced question, which is how do you convince people at the state legislature or in the suburbs who are gonna vote in a referendum to put more money into transit because the majority of them are not gonna be riding transit themselves. And how do you get them to do that? You know, historically, the reasons why people who have not used transit themselves would support it sometimes actually often would be because they saw transit as a substitute for cars for driving. That provides a whole lot of good stuff.

3 (21m 7s):
If other people are riding transit instead of driving, it means you can have less congestion. It means economic development, it means there's fewer emissions. It's all this stuff that people see value in personally if other people are using transit. It's something that the onion of all places sort of like nailed with a kind of intrans circle's famous headline from 20 years ago.

28 (21m 30s):
98% of US commuters favor public transportation for others.

3 (21m 37s):
And what's funny, I mean you laugh, it is funny, but actually some academics did a study and concluded that's true. That's a fact. That is act not 98% necessarily, but there are a lot of people that when you survey them, why do you support more transit? Well I hope it induces other people to not drive. Right? So that begs the next question. It's just how does transit induce people not to drive? And there's actually a clear answer to this and that's to provide frequent high quality service. The, because that's what people value, they value their time. And interestingly, this is what everyone says. It doesn't matter if someone's low income or more affluent. They say I am more likely not to drive and to take the bus or train instead if the service is reliable and fast and frequent.

3 (22m 24s):
That is what transit agencies need to be unshackled to provide right now in my view, to have a credible argument in state capitals and in the suburbs to say, look, you should be supporting transit in our moment of need because we can provide all this good stuff for you by reducing driving.

0 (22m 40s):
Hmm. It sounds like you're saying you think this idea that they're banding about in DC is really bad.

3 (22m 46s):
I don't think it's a good idea. It's not something that gets me fired up. I'm a DC resident. I used to work for a couple mayors in DC I love this city. I just think the fair free thing is it's at least a distraction and it might even be counterproductive.

1 (23m 3s):
Hmm.

3 (23m 6s):
I've spoken with some leaders like Monica Snut who's the under-secretary of transportation for Massachusetts and a former MBTA board member that's the transit system for Boston. And she said the fair free discussions actually make it harder to get statewide support for transit because people outside of Boston, which is obviously the big city, the city that is most interested, interesting, fair free transit, just don't really get it. They're not really into it and they feel like it is not a priority for them. And if we have a real problem, if fair free transit leads to an association in people's minds, if transit with being a service solely for the poorest in society because in the United States we just don't have a great record of funding things that are for low income Americans, that is not the frame that is most likely to get transit, the resources that it deserves.

0 (23m 59s):
Sad,

3 (24m 0s):
Sad. But I want to be realistic cuz we're facing this critical moment right now and we need to have the best arguments that we can.

0 (24m 8s):
We took David Zipper's argument back to DC council member Charles Allen, who's actually a big fan of

7 (24m 14s):
David. Well I'm a, I'm a big fan of David, but

0 (24m 16s):
There's a but.

7 (24m 17s):
But that also doesn't follow the experience that we've seen in other places that have moved fair free. You see an increase in ridership. That's a really important part of what will take place here in the district as well. But here's where DC will be different than other places. We're not just making it fair free. Remember we're also putting in place a 10 million a year fund to improve service and delivery so that you have a more reliable, a more frequent, a better experience when you're on transit. We are adding now a dozen lines that'll run 24 hours a day that we don't have right now. Those are big service improvements I've argued all along. It's not just about making it fair, free, you've got to also improve service.

7 (24m 58s):
If you don't address both sides of the same coin, you are really missing the boat

0 (25m 12s):
To free or not to free. That is the question. The answer is down the road, down the tracks, down the bike lane, the dedicated bus lane, the waterway. David Zippers is a visiting fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School. He's on Twitter at David Zipper. Amanda Lou Ellen drove this bus. Matthew Collette, Jolie Myers, Laura Bullard, miles, Bryan Paul, Robert Mosey, were along for the ride. Next up on our city limit series crime. Everyone says it's up. But is it really, or is that just our perception and how is that perception morphing our cities? It's today explained.