0 (0s):
Chicago Alexa, new mayor. Today the city decided they were done with Lori Lightfoot and they're now looking at two polar opposite replacements. And these two candidates have got two polar opposite strategies for dealing with crime, which is the biggest issue at play in this race. Protecting

2 (21s):
You has to be the mayor's top priority. And on my watch, it

3 (25s):
Will be my plan invests in our neighborhoods by making wealthy corporations pay their fair

0 (31s):
Share. Whatever happens, Chicago's choice to reject its current. Mayor says a lot about how big city politics around crime is changing. I

4 (40s):
Think the big city mayors or candidates to be big city mayors in Democrat cities, which is almost all big cities, are not gonna be able to sort of tow the line or, or go middle of the road on police reform and crime. The way that Mayor Lightfoot has done and, and the way that she did to get herself elected in the first

0 (56s):
Place that's coming up on today, explained

5 (1m 0s):
This episode is brought to you by Betterment. Are you waiting for the perfect moment to invest your money? Turns out that perfect moment might not exist. Even experts agree that it's tough to time the market. Betterment gives you the tools you need to make an informed investing plan so that whether markets are up or down, you have a plan no matter what. Sign up and start investing in just a few minutes@betterman.com. That's B E T T E R M E N t.com. You'll thank you. Later. Investing involves risk of loss performance, not guaranteed. The H B O drama succession is in its fourth and final season.

5 (1m 44s):
And for diehard fans, some of the characters have achieved pop star status.

6 (1m 48s):
That just feels like, so like, you know, you're that bitch when you calls all that conversation like

1 (1m 55s):
That. Like he's,

6 (1m 56s):
It. I just kind of like,

5 (1m 58s):
Did you just compare Logan Roy to Beyonce?

6 (2m 1s):
Well, I mean, why not?

5 (2m 5s):
Oh, let's keep this going. We talk succession this week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast

0 (2m 23s):
Today. Explained Sean Ramis room here with Patrick Smith from W B E Z in Chicago. And Patrick is here to help us understand why Lori Lightfoot is not on the ballot in Chicago today

4 (2m 35s):
Because she lost and she lost really badly

7 (2m 38s):
Stunning defeat for Mayor Lightfoot who got just over 16% of the vote. While the polls indicated this could be a possibility. Still a lot of very, very disappointed and shocked supporters.

4 (2m 52s):
She placed third in a runoff a few weeks ago. Chicago has this method of electing mayors where if nobody gets more than 50% of the vote, the top two candidates go to a runoff. I at least thought, I'm not saying that everybody did, but I certainly thought that Lightfoot was at least gonna get to the runoff. I mean, she's the incumbent. We had this huge number of candidates, usually name recognition alone is gonna get you into a top two slot. Instead, it was kind of an embarrassing loss for her first Chicago mayor in decades to lose reelection. A sign that she's just deeply unpopular in the city.

8 (3m 24s):
I will be rooting and praying for our next mayor to deliver for the people of the city for years to come.

0 (3m 34s):
And why is she so deeply unpopular?

4 (3m 37s):
Well, I think there are a couple reasons. I, I do think, you know, I'm not a political reporter, I'm not a political analyst, but I, I don't think it takes a genius to say that she was just not a great politician. Once she got into office, she alienated people, she alienated allies, she was resistant to any sort of criticism or questioning of her. But I think the biggest reason is that crime numbers are horrible here in Chicago and people blame her for that.

0 (4m 1s):
I wanna better understand that Patrick, I wanna understand why they didn't think she was doing a good job on crime. But let's start with how she came into office and what she promised she would do on crime, because crime has been a perennial issue in Chicago in, in recent years. Right.

4 (4m 16s):
Lightfoot, she's a former federal prosecutor, but the way she got into the public eye, she came from Chicago's police accountability infrastructure.

9 (4m 24s):
The head of Chicago police board is assigned another task. Lori Lightfoot is on the newly formed task force on police accountability.

4 (4m 33s):
She used to help punish, or honestly mostly not punish officers who were accused of wrongdoing. We had one of the many sort of famous police shootings here, a killing of, of a young man named Laquana McDonald. Lightfoot helped write the report after that killing where she said the

8 (4m 52s):
Perception among a significant number of African American and, and people of color in the city is that they are not treated with respect by the police because of their race. Now that perception becomes reality and in order for the police department to move forward to really get back to the essence of community policing, they've gotta deal with that reality.

4 (5m 12s):
And that was what really got her into the public eye, was being kind of the face of police reform in Chicago. And I think when she ran, she represented where we were as a city and where we were as a country on police reform, which was an acknowledgement that there were serious problems with policing. There was a history of racism and abuse, but also I think a, a general feeling that we knew what we needed to do to fix it, that we had the tools to fix it, and that we were going down the path of reform.

0 (5m 43s):
Hmm. Okay. So she comes into office with sort of an edict from the people to fix policing, to bring down crime, though crime isn't maybe the number one issue. How does she handle it?

4 (5m 56s):
The pandemic hits and at first things are going swimmingly. Lightfoot is like a covid folk hero, basically.

8 (6m 8s):
Hmm, here's what's up if I make this shot, you gotta stay home.

4 (6m 12s):
She's telling people to mask up, telling people to stay home.

8 (6m 17s):
She shoot, she score.

4 (6m 19s):
There's some kind of weird publicity stunts where she like goes with a camera crew to yell at kids who are hanging out outside at the beach and stuff like that.

8 (6m 27s):
You wanna take, you wanna take this virus back to your house and get your mama, let's move on.

4 (6m 32s):
Okay. Which was weird. But for the most part, people like her sort of no nonsense approach. They're telling people

8 (6m 39s):
Stay home, save lives.

4 (6m 42s):
And for crime, I mean crime like largely goes away at the beginning of the pandemic. I think people maybe forget that because now the story is that pandemic hit and violent crime spikes, right? But actually we had this long period where most people were at home and not doing anything. And so naturally crime went down. Police made a lot fewer arrests here in Chicago. I remember doing a story, a guy who had his machete wielding neighbor threatened him and he called the cops and the cops like gave the guy a warning and sent him on his way because they were told not to make arrests unless they absolutely had to, because otherwise they'd be spreading covid. I mean, if you remember at the time everybody was terrified of getting covid and the police were among them and people liked that.

4 (7m 28s):
Cops weren't really doing anything.

0 (7m 32s):
Of course, summer 2020, we get George Floyd's murder at the hands of police protests around the country. How does that go down in Chicago?

4 (7m 40s):
So here in Chicago, like elsewhere, we had these mass protests,

10 (7m 43s):
Demonstrators marching through the loop, speaking out on the death of George Floyd.

8 (7m 50s):
It is

4 (7m 50s):
Agonizing. Everybody was out. Governor JB Pritzker, the Illinois governor, he was out marching. Being

11 (7m 55s):
Black in America cannot be a death sentence, but it is

4 (8m 1s):
The progressives, the lefties who felt that police reform was going in the right direction. Think, oh my god, things are so much worse than we realized. We have to make more dramatic changes than we thought we did to fix this. Then here in Chicago, like in a lot of cities, especially at night, there was mass looting, mass destruction,

12 (8m 19s):
Chaos in downtown Chicago This morning looting and rioting leads to arrests stretching from Michigan Avenue to the south loop.

4 (8m 25s):
And these cars were sat on fire store, windows were smashed up, things were stolen. It happened largely downtown here in Chicago and then in poor black neighborhoods in Chicago on the south and west sides. So

0 (8m 38s):
Crime spikes,

4 (8m 39s):
Crime spikes shooting spike here in Chicago. You know, I talked to people who work on the west side who said gangs were using sort of this mayhem as an opportunity to go out and settle scores cuz like the police couldn't respond to shootings. Hmm. That I think was the inflection point for people who thought everything was okay with crime and violence too. Like they thought everything was okay and then boom, everything spikes again.

0 (9m 0s):
How does Chicago Mayor Lori Lightfoot respond?

4 (9m 3s):
Well, I think her response is pretty emblematic of kind of her whole deal. She tries to have it both ways. Early on in the protest she does these very public condemnations of police officers. Like I remember one officer who gave the middle finger to protestors, things like that. She's, she's say saying This is inappropriate.

8 (9m 23s):
And in my view, that person needs to be immediately stripped of their police powers and they should start the process for firing

4 (9m 29s):
Him. But then she really rejects claims by protestors that police officers were violent during protests. She, she says, no, no, that didn't happen. She also raised bridges downtown over the Chicago river to try to prevent people from getting in and out of downtown when there was all the mayhem and destruction.

8 (9m 45s):
I make no apologies that I'm always going to make the tough but necessary choice if it means protecting our people.

4 (9m 55s):
And her response to the the spike in violent crime is really kind of like old school policing. And honestly, when I say old school, I mean mostly outdated stuff that people have largely rejected. Like every couple weeks a new group of like jump out boys from the police department who are gonna go raid the hot corners, they're gonna go arrest drug dealers, they're gonna lock everybody up on the street. It's a very traditional and honestly it feels kind of PR driven response to the violence, which is we're gonna throw a bunch of cops at it and we're gonna be, we're gonna be hard on these criminals.

0 (10m 29s):
And how does it go over?

4 (10m 31s):
It does not go over well. All the people who are protesting about police reform, as you might imagine, do not respond well to the idea of more police and more aggressive policing. And light foot's initial response to the police protest where she, you know, said the protestors had some good points where she said that officers who were disrespectful to protestors should be punished. It turns the cops and their supporters against her too. You know, she increased the police budget, but we actually lost officers because so many were leaving the department. There were definitely claims of sort of a blue flu of, of police officers pulling back or slow walking their job. We saw that nationally.

4 (11m 11s):
But I, I do think it's important to say that police officers and I think that extends then to their family members and people who know them and there are parts of the city that really identify as sort of police officer neighborhoods and they really turned on Lightfoot.

0 (11m 26s):
Okay, so it sounds like Lightfoot doesn't make anyone happy. She increases policing, doesn't solve the problem, makes a lot of people mad, but does she make people feel more safe because as we discussed in our last episode, sometimes perception of crime is the name of the game.

4 (11m 43s):
It does not make people feel more safe. Hmm. In 2021 we have an increase not just of, of shootings and murders, we also have an increase in carjackings, which are the sort of of crimes that make people who might otherwise feel kind of safe and secure, feel very unsafe. Cuz it's like, who the hell knows? You know, I could be going out, I could be driving around in my neighborhood and somebody could come stick a gun in my face.

13 (12m 4s):
Hmm. Not just happens anywhere, anytime of day, morning, night. The carjackings, that's street crime. Like it's just way worse.

4 (12m 11s):
There's also, I mean on TV all the time are videos of the looting and the destruction from downtown that sticks in people's heads. And it's hard to convince people we've got order and we've got this under control when what they're seeing all the time are these images of chaos and disorder. And you know, I do think there's something Lightfoot has pointed to a lot. I think light foot's identity as a black lesbian woman makes it so that the sort of people who might otherwise respond really well to a traditional tough on crime approach for some reason are not, you know, taking it the same way when it comes from Mayor Lightfoot.

0 (12m 49s):
Well, what can other Democrats running other American cities learn from this sort of parable of Lori Lightfoot? Her story will soon be past tense, but a lot of Democrats are still in charge. What can they take away from this?

4 (13m 5s):
I would be hesitant to take too many big takeaways because I do think she was kind of a uniquely flawed politician when she got into office. But I think that absolutely you can see a lesson from her that democratic mayors in big cities are not gonna be able to sort of have it both ways when it comes to policing and crime. At least rhetorically, it's not gonna be possible to be this sort of middle of the road. Yes, we need police, but we need reform to kind of person. Lightfoot came in at a time when everybody really wanted somebody who could say, the problems are bad, but we know the solutions. And now people are either wanting you to deny the problems altogether or they want somebody who's gonna come in and say, we need to completely change the way we address violent crime, the way we address crime.

4 (13m 52s):
Lightfoot tried to have it both ways and it got her elected, so I understand why she would sort of look at it like, well wait, why couldn't that get me reelected? But something fundamentally changed over those four years, I think, and we became more polarized as an electorate in Chicago and I think that represents how people are nationally.

0 (14m 19s):
Patrick Smith reports on criminal justice at W B E Z Public Radio in Chicago, the Replacements. Paul Valis and Brandon Johnson in a minute on today explained.

16 (14m 46s):
Hey, this is Sean Illing. I'm the host of the Vox Podcast, the gray area where we take a philosophical look at culture, politics, and the world. Basically I get to talk with really smart people about big ideas for a living and it's pretty awesome. And a great thing about working at Vox is that everything we do is free and accessible to everyone. Vox has been free since it was founded nine years ago, and we want to keep it that way for years to come. You can help us do that by making a contribution today. Making a contribution supports what we do here at the gray area. It helps keep Vox free and it makes us less dependent on advertising and that's a really good thing for everyone.

16 (15m 28s):
Go to vox.com/give. There's a link in the show notes. Thanks for your support.

18 (15m 43s):
I'm Preed Barra, the former US attorney in Manhattan. My podcast stay tuned is about law, justice, and politics. The Manhattan District Attorney's case against Donald Trump is one of the most consequential, legal and political stories of our time. So this week I was joined by two top legal experts, former US Attorney Joyce Vance and Law Fair editor Ben Whits, to analyze the charges.

17 (16m 6s):
While I don't think this is a no-brainer case to bring, I do think there is a fairly solid basis for it.

18 (16m 15s):
The potential evidence,

19 (16m 17s):
I think the jury hearing the evidence that at least if Brad can prove what he's laid out in the statement of fact, the evidence will be compelling on these charges.

18 (16m 27s):
And where we go from here, it's not clear that a conviction on one or more of these felony counts would result in prison sentence or a substantial prison sentence to listen. Just search. Stay tuned wherever you get your podcasts. New episodes drop every Thursday. Stay tuned

0 (16m 55s):
Today. Explained his back. Patrick Smith is gone. But we have one of his colleagues here, Mariah Wolfel, who reports on city government at W B E Z in Chicago. Mariah, we just heard from Patrick about how voters in Chicago were fairly united in rejecting Mayor Lori Lightfoot. Are they united around a replacement candidate?

20 (17m 14s):
No, they are. They are not united. Things are tense here in Chicago.

21 (17m 18s):
Brandon Johnson and Paul Valis are neck and neck in

22 (17m 21s):
The polls. This is a close competitive contest.

23 (17m 23s):
A new poll shows the race in a dead heat, but with a significant number of voters undecided, both candidates in this final week hoping to finish

20 (17m 30s):
Draw. People are painting this as a high stake selection, laying out the future of violence reduction in the city, the future of public schools, the future of the economy.

22 (17m 41s):
Candidates for Mayor clashed over the familiar topics of police education and taxes.

20 (17m 47s):
Everything is on the line here. And you have two candidates who are basically at the opposite end of the spectrum on all of those issues. The top one being crime.

0 (17m 57s):
Who are the two candidates?

20 (17m 58s):
You have? Paul Valis, who is a former public administrator. He's the tough on crime candidate backed by the Chicago Police Union. And

2 (18m 7s):
We will have a safe Chicago, we will make Chicago the safest city in America.

20 (18m 15s):
And then you have Brandon Johnson, who is the more progressive choice. He is a Chicago teacher's union organizer and a local county commissioner. You

3 (18m 24s):
Deserve a better, stronger, safer Chicago, a city where you can thrive regardless of who you love or how much money you have in your bank account.

0 (18m 38s):
Let's talk a bit more about these candidates. Let's start with Paul Valis. What's his deal?

20 (18m 42s):
So Paul Valis is a lifelong policy administrator. He's white, he's 69 years old. His first big job was leading the Chicago public schools in the nineties, and then he kind of launched this career as kind of the Mr Fix it of school reforms.

24 (18m 58s):
Paul Valis comes to New Orleans after running two large city school systems. Good morning Chicago, with 414,000 students in Philadelphia with 172,000

20 (19m 12s):
Bringing in charter schools really as a solution. Well,

2 (19m 15s):
I'm a believer in schools having the freedom and autonomy to make decisions that are in the best interest of the children and, and so I support charter schools because charter schools are a vehicle for achieving that type of freedom.

20 (19m 27s):
He's also run for election several times and has lost three different elections. One for Illinois governor, the first election he ever ran for was for the State's top job. And then most recently his unsuccessful run for mayor in 2019.

0 (19m 43s):
So he sounds kinda like a bit washed up. How did he reemerge in this current race?

20 (19m 48s):
Well, I think Paul Valis kind of saw this opportunity in that crime worsened as it did in across other cities during the pandemic in Chicago. It's crept into wealthier areas of the city as well. And so there's a lot of people who wanna see a mayor take that on as the forefront issue. Take a very regimented approach to fixing crime. He comes from a family of first responders. His wife was a suburban cop. Hmm. And then in 2021, you know he's kind of in between jobs.

0 (20m 22s):
Unemployed, sorry.

20 (20m 24s):
Yeah. Tried to use a euphemism there, but it's before he's announced that he's gonna run for mayor. The city is negotiating a contract with the Fraternal Order of police. Chicago's largest police union. It's a controversial union with a controversial leader and they can't broker a deal with Mayor Lightfoot for a new contract because they had a very tense relationship with Lightfoot. And so Valis comes in

25 (20m 48s):
Candidate for Mayor Paul Valis says he's proud to have won the endorsement of the local Fraternal Order of Police Union. The president of the union is political firebrand, John Kaza Jr. In the wake of the endorsement of Valis Mayor Lightfoot cited Katan Zara's support for former President Trump and other controversial conservative interests. She taunted in a tweet so much for being a lifelong Democrat, Paul Valis.

0 (21m 14s):
So Valis is the tough on crime Democrat. What's his opponent like? You said this. Brandon Johnson's a little more progressive.

20 (21m 22s):
Johnson grew up in the burbs. He comes from a large family. He's black, he's 47, and his dad's a pastor. He was a social studies middle school teacher for a few years, but really his main career is as a lobbyist and an organizer for the Chicago Teachers Union.

9 (21m 39s):
Hmm. The next mayor's first term will include negotiating a new contract with the Chicago Teachers Union. For the past decade, Johnson has been a paid organizer for the CT U supporting strikes and Covid school closures.

20 (21m 52s):
Johnson comes from the this union that has very progressive ideas about where they wanna see the city go. They have a theory and a message that children and their families need to be supported by, you know, poverty reduction services, by having fully funded schools economic opportunity, and really pushing resources out to neighborhoods that have gotten ignored for a long time. And once you start to solve those issues, the city's crime problem will start to wane.

3 (22m 19s):
Safety is directly tied to our ability to provide economic security, and if we're not committed to that, then we're not serious about having safe, thriving, healthy communities

20 (22m 30s):
When it comes to policing. Johnson has gotten a lot of pushback for previous support of the defund, the police movement. He's said previously in 2020, before he was a mayoral candidate that defunding the police is a quote, actual

3 (22m 44s):
Real political goal.

20 (22m 45s):
But he is really had to distance himself from those past statements. Do

26 (22m 49s):
You acknowledge making those recorded and documented statements? Yes or no?

3 (22m 53s):
I'm not gonna defund the police.

20 (22m 55s):
He's gotten attacked by Valis and as Chicagoans have a real fear of crime right now and wanna see a candidate seriously address it with the police as well as as other strategies. But his main campaign idea on policing is that we need to hire a ton more detectives to solve crime, but he also wants to raise taxes and other revenue to pay for, you know, programs to address root causes.

0 (23m 18s):
Okay. So two very distinct choices here for voters in Chicago. A tough on crime, a progressive on crime candidate. Are voters lining up behind one candidate or another right now?

20 (23m 31s):
Well, I think you kind of have to look at the areas of support from the general election in March to kind of get an idea of who's backing both of these candidates in those election results. You see really wealthier areas of the city backing Valis as well as areas of the city with lots of first responders behind Valis. And so those are areas of the city that are less affected by crime. And then when you look at Brandon Johnson's area of support, he really has younger, white and younger Latino voters on his side. And those tend to be in areas that are more progressive, you know, liberal areas of the city. When you look at the areas of the city that are most affected by crime, where the majority of black and brown Chicagoans live, those areas went in large swaths for Mayor Lori Lightfoot.

20 (24m 19s):
Hmm. There's about 90,000 people who voted for Lightfoot. She won a majority in most of the majority black wards in Chicago. And so, you know, immediately after that first day, after the general election, Paul Valis and Brandon Johnson are working really hard to swoop up those voters. And it's really hard to say where they're gonna go because Lightfoot wasn't, you know, an extreme on one side or the other as kind of Valis and Johnson are. And so I think her voting base is a little bit more nuanced. They're people that care about crime, they're people that care about addressing the root causes of crime. And so we kind of have to see where they're gonna split between Johnson and Valis in the runoff.

20 (25m 4s):
I think Chicago really is at a fork in the road where you're gonna go with either who would be the city's most progressive mayor in history, I think, or you're gonna go with a more status quo. Someone who, who's backed by you know, people who have worked to elect democratic machine politicians in the past and who's backed by, you know, a wealthy Republican donor establishment. I mean, it's the story of a lot of the congressional races I've covered that it's a referendum on the future of the Democratic party between a more radical progressive left and a a larger tent, moderate democratic party.

0 (25m 49s):
Mariah Wolfel, like her colleague Patrick Smith, a reporter at W B E Z in Chicago, find their work and follow the election results@wbz.org. Our show today was produced by Miles Brian. It was edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd with help from Paul Robert Mosey. That is a wrap in our series on American cities. If you missed any coverage on Doom Loops or public transit or crime, visit the today explained feed and look for shows that start with city limits in the title.