1 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from the Jordan Harbinger show, which I might add was named one of the best shows of the Year by Apple in 2018 Jordan sort of demystifies the motivations and influences of legendary creators and writers and other essential type so you can apply all of their strategies and perspectives to your own life people like Bill Nye the Bowtie guy. Listen for yourself search for the Jordan Harbinger show. Wherever you search for

2 (31s):
podcasts, hi, I'm Avery troubleman, and I'm the new host of the cut podcast from New York Magazine and the VOX media podcast Network. Every Wednesday the cut editorial team and I will explore surprising provocative ideas about style self culture and Power in our first episode. We're looking at what it means to be optimistic in 2020. You can listen And subscribe to the cut now on Apple podcast or wherever you listen.

1 (1m 15s):
If you are watching the Democratic National Convention last night, you saw Jill Biden give a speech from Brandywine High School in Wilmington Delaware a school where she used to teach and as she almost immediately pointed out Brandywine High felt Eerie last

2 (1m 31s):
night. You can hear the anxiety that Echoes down empty hallways. There's no scent of new. Notebooks or freshly waxed floors the rooms are dark as the bright young faces that should fill them are now confined to boxes on a computer screen High Schools, elementary schools and

1 (1m 54s):
colleges across the country are facing some really difficult decisions right now. Keep kids at home where they don't get to really socialize or they might fall behind because of a digital divide or a lack of supervision or or lack of meals. As for go millions of dollars in tuition and housing needed to sustain massive institutions or bring them back too soon. One of the biggest universities in the country to open during the pandemic just offered a case study in the latter UNC Chapel Hill opened on August 10th within a week over a hundred students tested positive for covid with another few hundred quarantined and the school had to walk back its reopening and move all classes online.

1 (2m 38s):
Mississippi reopened its public schools and within weeks 71 of 82 of its school districts were reporting covid-19 cases with over 200 teachers testing positive and with over 2,000 now quarantining and then there's Georgia which you might have heard about Georgia was one of the first states to reopen it schools for the fall, but very much in the middle of summer

2 (3m 2s):
Cherokee County and Paulding County both opened for in-person classes. Has on August 3rd, this is Ellen

1 (3m 10s):
Eldridge. She's a healthcare reporter for Georgia public broadcasting. But she also has two kids who go to school in Cherokee County Georgia. So she had Direct experience with Georgia schools reopening a few weeks ago in the middle of summer.

2 (3m 24s):
So I'm just as confused as the rest of the world as to why Georgia goes back so early but traditionally my children who are now in second and fourth grade. They've gone back early

1 (3m 36s):
August and what's the process you Through as a parent when Cherokee County says schools are reopening in early August

2 (3m 43s):
the parents for Cherokee County Schools were given a survey to fill out asking us what our experience was in in March and April when school shut down for the rest of the spring and we ultimately had a quote-unquote choice to send our kids back to school virtual only which it's slightly different. Actually. It's very different between Elementary middle and high schools or we could choose to send our children back face-to-face and so that in and of itself created a lot of question and hand-wringing and you know decision making because of course some parents work full-time.

2 (4m 25s):
Some parents are not working from home some children have individualized educational plans or IEPs special needs what have you so we had to make those decisions by July.

1 (4m 38s):
20s. Hmm. I know you didn't send your kids back but many parents in your county did what safety guarantees were their social distancing masks

2 (4m 48s):
the superintendent and the school board's do have the ability to enforce mask mandates for their students for the school board level for Cherokee County Paulding County Cobb County would have you it comes down to the school board and the superintendent and so Paulding and Cherokee do not have a mask mandate. Huh?

1 (5m 6s):
So no Mass requirement even though Though the CDC guidelines pretty clearly advised masks

2 (5m 12s):
The Mask issue in terms of why they did not enforce a mandate came down to a question of personal choice. A lot of parents said that there were students who would not be able to wear a mask or who would just choose not to follow the rules. It really is kind of hard to understand why they're holding fast to not mandating masks when the health Birds and the CDC are saying so clearly that they do help but ultimately it comes down to personal freedom and the people who feel very strongly

3 (5m 47s):
about that

1 (5m 50s):
tell me how the world comes to be aware of what's going on in these two school districts and particular in particular two schools there, right?

2 (5m 60s):
Yeah. I think that because Georgia was one of the first states to open is not the first date to In for business and we had school districts planning to return not only to school but to impersonate School The Eyes Of The Nation were already upon us. But also when we return to school we had these pictures go viral right away a group of singers all smiles. Guess what I posing for the picture the only problem no mask no social distancing. They were criticizing the school district for taking such a photo being so close together and without masks. And Paulding County very similar thing.

2 (6m 40s):
One of the students decided to take a photo in the hallway just showing the conditions. So the student was in the hallway with a look like any other day in high school except the fact remains that we are in a pandemic students were not wearing masks. There was no social distancing there appeared to be no staggering of the the bell and it was just a crowded hallway that when people saw it they were shocked and it quickly was shared on all the different social media channels 15 year old Hannah Waters and see if she says she posted the images of the overcrowded hallways here inside of North Paulding High School because she felt uneasy she says her peers most of them not social distancing or wearing masks and she didn't expect this photo to go viral.

2 (7m 25s):
This virus is very serious, obviously, so I took that picture I don't like concern for the county and all the kids there and all the teachers and staff.

1 (7m 35s):
So what happens after these these Those blowup and are seen around the

2 (7m 40s):
world the leadership at North Paulding High School. They weren't particularly thrilled that the school was getting so much attention for such a Negative kind of thing and the powers that be at the school. I guess it falls on the superintendent and the school principal they decided to suspend to students who had shared photos that went viral showing crowded hallways saying that taking and posting those photos was a Elation of the existing social media policy saying that you can't share photos of students without their permission or something to that effect, but obviously the public backlash came because it was being enforced in this moment because of the public and Nationwide embarrassment and the attention on the school.

1 (8m 28s):
So just to be clear here instead of saying, oh we made a mistake we should have adhered to CDC guidelines a little bit better. We should have protected these students our teachers. They punish the students who share the photos

2 (8m 41s):
that is what happened and there's been a lot of criticism as well saying and I certainly remember from my high school days. If you wear a t-shirt with an expletive word on it a curse word on it or you wear a spaghetti strap halter top or something. They're going to enforce dress code. But yet they're saying that they would be unable to enforce a mask mandate in schools.

1 (9m 3s):
How did the school counties the state the country? We react to

2 (9m 8s):
that. Yeah, it didn't go over. Well when they tried to suspend students for sharing just the the truth of what was going on with the situation was the first first day really back in school. I firmly believe that it was the national attention and the public backlash that made the superintendent and the principal decided to cancel the suspensions and allow the students back in school the whistleblowing teenager who was suspended for posting images of jam packed house. Ways at her High School told me the principal is now lifting the suspension following an outcry of supports. He apologized and he deleted the suspension.

2 (9m 48s):
So there's no like I can go back to school on Monday

1 (9m 52s):
do the school's change their policies on mask-wearing social distancing staggering

2 (9m 57s):
hallway traffic. They've most certainly not change their policy on the mask mandate really and in Cherokee County. It's still it's the top story on the local TV news station here. Because Cherokee County even though it's technically outside of the Metro Atlanta area were farther north Cherokee County is still making headlines because now I believe it's more than 2,500 teachers and students currently quarantined Paulding County is currently reporting just over 50 cases of coronavirus positive coronavirus test within their school district. So that means that we've got classrooms where half of The students are out there trying, you know, they wanted to go back to school face-to-face.

2 (10m 43s):
They wanted their in-person instruction. But because of the transmission of the coronavirus they are now in a situation where they're trying to keep up from home and the teachers have to have double the work if not more because they've got to keep up with their in-person students as well as those who are now quarantined at

1 (11m 2s):
home. How is that being justified covid is spreading schools are open? Still no mask

2 (11m 8s):
mandate a lot of the language even from the superintendent in his emails to parents. It seems contradictory because it sounds like out of one side of their mouths. They're saying Get Ready for schools to close and the other side. I mean, I believe that they do want to stay open that it is important for students to see their teachers and to be in person but it seems like everybody is just waiting for that Tipping Point when the schools will close down. Although the people in charge of making that decision have not said that that's going to be what happens or when

1 (11m 45s):
Just the Optics of the situation where you had packed hallways, no masks no social distancing group photos suspensions of the students who spread the word then recalling those suspensions and then having increased Community spread in these respective counties that to me just feels like a disaster. It just feels like a lot of Drama, that could have been avoided.

2 (12m 10s):
I cannot say I disagree that the drama could have been avoided but I can also tell you that in Cherokee County here. We do have a group of parents and supporters school board members who are part of a group dedicated to staying positive as it were and I reported myself. They held a positivity rally to support the teachers and the board. Lord for staying in person there this group of parents. They're going around creating chalk drawings outside. The school's father chalk drawings of dead bodies. No Sean, they are not it's shock drawings are saying, you know, we support our schools and and of course, there's people who criticize that calling it toxic positivity comparing it to the meme of the dajjal thinking fire.

2 (13m 3s):
Yeah magical thinking there's certainly something to be said for see On the bright side. But yeah, we're living through a pandemic and while evidence is showing pretty strongly that younger people for the most part are not as seriously affected by covid-19. It spreads children young people are very capable of spreading coronavirus. And that means that those people in our society who are more susceptible are going to be more likely to get it and suffer the consequences and in some of those those consequences include filling up the emergency rooms and the icy use no one Eldridge.

1 (13m 48s):
She's a healthcare reporter at Georgia public broadcasting. You can find and support her work at gpb.org after the break the science so far of kids transmitting covid-19. I'm Sean Rama's firm visited a explained Support for the show today comes from Ernest Ernest would like to get you help with your student loan debt may be lower that rate lower that monthly payment. You can see your new rate in just a few minutes. All you need to do is answer a couple of questions online and you'll get a personalized rate estimate without putting a ding in the old credit score.

1 (14m 33s):
And right now you can get $100 cash bonus when you refinance a student loan. If you go to earn a stock cam explained once again Ernest.com explain for $100 cash bonus when you refinance your Loan not available in all states. You can find out where at Ernest.com explain and here's some fun information for you terms and conditions apply earn a student loan refinance loans are made by furnace operations, LLC and MLS number 120. 4917, California financing law license number 605 for 788 332nd Street, Suite 401 North San Francisco, California nine 4107 visit Earnest.com licenses for a full list of licensed States fun.

1 (15m 15s):
And support for the show today comes from Noom and oom like room but with an N at the beginning of the word. Have you been to New Moon.com explained yet and oom.com explained that's where you can find out about moom the Habit changing program that uses psychology to teach you the mechanics of your brain so you can make the changes you want to make in your life be it, you know. A different diet or working out more Newman doesn't shame you they just give you the tools that you need to understand how to make the changes you want in your life and to do them better.

1 (15m 56s):
They get it you're human mistakes happen, but they're just going to give you the tips and it takes something like 10 minutes a day sometimes to see results. So check out a trial at Noom.com explained if you're interested n-o-o-o m.com / explained Noom.com Flash explained apparently over 80% of numerous finished the program and over 60% stick with their goals for at least a year plus a hundred percent can call themselves numers. Lowest partially you've been covering the science of covid for Vox.

1 (16m 39s):
We just heard about the schools in Georgia. And we know there are similar situations across the country adding to the confusion our CDC guidelines, which changed after the Trump Administration didn't like them and adding to that confusion surely is President Trump himself claiming kids are practically immune to covid what do we really know about kids getting and Covid

2 (17m 0s):
originally people were thinking that kids might get covid-19 less often than adults after they were exposed. Most children. We should say here have mild symptoms the most common symptoms in kids are fever and a cough, but there's growing evidence that kids with pre-existing conditions, like heart disease have increased risk of having a severe case. And overall even though kids are less likely to end up in a hospital if they do get hospitalized they end up in the ICU at comparative rates to adults. Some kids also have a multi-system inflammatory syndrome, which looks like a rash and it can end up being deadly it mimics something called Kawasaki disease.

2 (17m 51s):
This is pretty rare, but we should also say that we don't know about the long-term effects on

1 (17m 57s):
Yet. Okay bottom line kids get this kids spread this

2 (18m 1s):
children of all ages can get covid-19 and experts in housing. They might play an important role in community transmission.

1 (18m 10s):
Do we know how much of a difference there is in risks between young children versus say adolescence and can we glean any relevant conclusions about whether we should be opening up an elementary school at one point versus say a high school and another Other

2 (18m 27s):
yeah, that's a great question. And there does seem to be a difference in between younger kids and teenagers both in terms of How likely they are to get infected and How likely they are to have a severe case if they are infected. It's still on the early side of being able to say much conclusively, but it appears that between the time of middle school kids start to respond to covid-19 at about the same rate. As adults do that means that middle and high schools might have different risks than elementary

3 (19m 2s):
schools.

1 (19m 3s):
What does it mean for teachers across the board? I suppose. I mean that's a big part of the equation here. There's there's 30 kids in a classroom potentially, but there's only one teacher and if we lose said teacher, then there might not be anyone who wants to come in and teach the 30 kids,

2 (19m 20s):
right? The US Department of Education is not publicly tracking covid-19 s impacts on schools. Like the number of students who are being quarantined or school closures anywhere. Why not? That's a great question one Kansas teacher who was really disturbed by the lack of this data created a crowdsourced Google spreadsheet using media reports to track positive cases of covid-19 associated with schools, and there's some legitimate questions because it's crowd-sourced about this spreadsheets accuracy, but it shows Is that more than 2,000 students and staff have already tested positive for covid-19 since early July and that teachers in multiple states have already

1 (20m 5s):
died. I just that is so seriously unacceptable. We're letting our teachers die right now how should schools and superintendents and politicians be thinking about Community transmission as they consider reopening and reclosing Andre reopening and potential loss of students and teachers lives here

2 (20m 34s):
Louis. So, this is another Place that the lack of federal leadership has really crippled our ability to respond to the pandemic everyone. I've interviewed has said that ultimately Community transmission is a huge and probably the most important factor in school safety. But what's safe enough for Community transmission is a decision that's being left up to the states. They all tend to look at pretty similar things. Organ, for example says that counties must have fewer than 10 cases in a hundred thousand people.

2 (21m 15s):
Arizona says less than a hundred cases per 100,000 people as well as other centers like Hospital capacity. But basically this is yet another place where school districts and families themselves are being left to make individual decisions about something that has a collective

1 (21m 34s):
risk. Other places doing this well be they in the United States or elsewhere. Are there like a set of best practices that have been established at this point?

2 (21m 46s):
You can look at other countries where sometimes data is easier to find than in the US but it's pretty hard to directly compare apples to apples between countries because there are other measures that have happened at the same time, which makes it hard to Tease apart the data but there's still a definite Trends countries like Vietnam and New Zealand that I've generally done a good job have successfully reopen schools. There are factors that can make reopening School safer like mask-wearing and social distancing and regular testing and adequate contact tracing many of which are not things that the u.s.

2 (22m 33s):
Is prepared to do right now. The at the Grim picture altogether

1 (22m 40s):
and that just brings us back to this really tough call that school districts are having to make right bring kids back to school where they can socialize where they can learn new material where they can get meals easily or keep them at home where they experience who knows a whole raft of issues that people don't want kids experiencing be it the digital divide be it. Antisocial Behavior be it staying up till 4 a.m. Working on a homework packet because all of a sudden you just need to turn it in and whatever time of day right?

2 (23m 15s):
Yeah schools provide a lot of services that aren't just the teaching that happens in classroom. We've heard a lot about schools provide free lunch for millions of children across the country and they provide childcare for Working Families. They provide important socialization for for kids that's necessary for a psychological development. Nobody wants children to not be able to go back to school. The only question is whether the alternative is

3 (23m 46s):
worse. All right,

1 (23m 53s):
we've heard from a reporter and a reporter who's a parent but what about the kids we found one who was happy to chat with us between digital classes this afternoon.

2 (24m 3s):
My name is Vivian. I'm in fifth grade and I go to 6 as

1 (24m 6s):
Elementary and Canton

2 (24m 8s):
Georgia, which is not great because it was on national news the first day of school because there was a coronavirus case in second grade and the whole class is quarantined and stuff. I think they're like 70 something people quarantined in my school.

1 (24m 23s):
It's crazy. So what's quarantine school? Like what's an average day for you? Like

2 (24m 28s):
I wake up and maybe I take a shower. Maybe I don't and then I get on the computer but it's hard because like on the couple first days of school. I wanted to make new friends because that's what you'd normally do at school. But I really couldn't because every time I would try to interact with people I would get in trouble for it and say it was disrupting the class when normally on brakes you would just be able to like lunch and stuff on read or recited. You just be able to like talks and make new friends. But on this you just get off the computer. You can't make any new

1 (25m 0s):
friends. Yeah, and like as far as learning goes, how do you find doing division from home from your room versus doing it in the classroom?

2 (25m 10s):
I actually find it harder, but it's weird because I get better grades when I'm here, but I find it harder. I guess I just try harder or something. I don't know.

1 (25m 21s):
How did your friends feel about it? Have you talked to them about it?

2 (25m 24s):
Well, most of my friends aren't digital with the one friend that I do have. That's digital. Her name is Izzy.

1 (25m 30s):
She's probably going to watch this tomorrow because she thinks I'm famous. Seriously honey. He's gonna listen

2 (25m 39s):
he's doing digital in the same class as

1 (25m 40s):
me. I don't really get

2 (25m 42s):
to talk to her much on digital because like we have to you know be focused all the time, but I do have her number. So I like play Roblox with her and stuff, but she wishes her parents had let her go too. But she knows it's for good reason kind of like me my friends who are doing school, like my friend Peyton Lacy, they've told me lots of stuff about the fact that mass are mandatory and some of them wish they were some of them. Wish they weren't it's it's

1 (26m 8s):
different. What would you like to see your school do to keep you safe so you can go back. I think that they should make

2 (26m 16s):
Mass mandatory for students.

1 (26m 19s):
Definitely make sure you get

2 (26m 20s):
tested frequently not a lot like Every now and again just to make sure you don't have covid because it'll all it takes is one person. I think that the teachers should wear masks mandatory and get tested as well. I think that they should probably have temperature checks every week or so. I need to protect my family if I don't I don't know what'll happen, and I don't want to

1 (26m 43s):
know. Well, I think that's the right decision to make Vivian. I hope you stay safe. I hope your family stay safe. Thank you for making time for us today. Thanks for chatting after school, bye-bye.