2 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from the Michelle Obama podcast, which is now out only on Spotify. Are you on Spotify? If you are you can hear Michelle talked to Barack talk to Valerie talk to me. She'll talk to dr. Sharon talk to Craig talked to Conan a lot of first-name basis people out there. How many Conan's do you know? I only know the one

1 (25s):
and the fictional one. Anyway,

2 (27s):
you can listen to all the episodes for free and Spotify.com. Michelle Obama We're number one. We're number one in covid cases. The United States has more cases and more deaths than anywhere else in the world still, but that didn't stop a whole lot of colleges and universities from bringing students back to campus for the fall semester. Which means If you cover colleges and universities for a living like Andy Thomas in does for The Chronicle of Higher Education, it's been a gnarly few weeks.

2 (1m 11s):
Yeah. Well, it's a lot you the University of North Georgia. This is how students celebrated the first weekend back a different Pack party in Stillwater Oklahoma as officials at Oklahoma State University revealed 23 covid cases at an off-campus sorority house the universities that decided to

1 (1m 32s):
operate In person this fall it's the pandemic are seeing cases rise on their campus and trying to manage that

2 (1m 41s):
this is where students here at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Get taken May test positive for covid-19 to isolation housing. Nobody goes in nobody comes out.

1 (1m 51s):
You've seen several thousand positive cases at the University of Alabama. You've seen hundreds of cases at the University of Wisconsin thousands at Illinois State University University of Iowa. Iowa Iowa State University some campuses are even causing their surrounding county to become a coronavirus hotspot. And that's really concerning especially after a summer in which college has spent the time planning and strategizing for how to avoid this exact fate.

2 (2m 23s):
It's all part of a reality some students say they assumed would come with back to school.

1 (2m 32s):
Same kind of

2 (2m 33s):
inevitable. Let's start back in March when the whole thing begins what do college universities do when it's becoming clear that we'll need to start socially

3 (2m 49s):
distancing quarantining and state start locking stuff down.

1 (2m 54s):
So in early March college has turned their operations online in a near unanimous Wave by the end of March pretty much. Much every college that had an in-person element had sent everybody home turned all their learning online and very quickly after everybody started looking forward and trying to figure out. Okay. What what are we going to do? How are we going to do learning a missed a pandemic and there was this moment in the late spring and early summer where the signal kind of came down from prominent universities that not only will they be able to open for? The fall but they must open for the fall and I mean, I mean literally that was the headline of an op-ed by Brown University's president the New York Times.

1 (3m 41s):
She basically argued that in-person instruction was a financial necessity for both campuses and local economies and also critical for students, especially low-income students and we saw similar messages from people like the President of Notre Dame who invoked Aristotle and Purdue's Who's Mitch Daniels who said you know, the lives of students and faculty would be permanently damaged If the fall happened online, so we got this kind of bat signal from some of the big names in American higher education leadership sort of arguing, you know, just a month into the pandemic really that we've got to do this.

1 (4m 23s):
We've got to bring things back to some form of normalcy.

2 (4m 27s):
So it sounds like there's lots of philosophical Arguments for bring students back, but is it Clear that this is about money. A

1 (4m 34s):
lot of it is about money. There's no doubt about it. So let's look at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.

2 (4m 41s):
And that's that's a public that's a public

1 (4m 44s):
which at some point announced that they were going to be primarily online for the fall. What they projected was a one hundred and sixty eight point six million dollar loss from the operating budget private universities who are operating all online or obviously also hurting so George Washington University's didn't just last week said that the assumption that the university would be operating all online for this whole Academic Year basically means that they've got a 100 million dollar chunk of Revenue in housing. That's just totally

2 (5m 17s):
lost. I think and for some students out there, it's hard to sympathize with

3 (5m 21s):
these massive organizations that

2 (5m 23s):
charge in some cases 50 60 70 thousand dollars a year for tuition. Don't they have endowments and you know Hefty. Savings accounts for rainy days like these or are those insufficient for the monsoons that universities are facing

1 (5m 40s):
perhaps. Yeah, they do have endowments. Now what a university administrator would tell you is that an endowment is not a big pool of money that we can just dive into and come up holding big chunks of cash that we can throw into balance the housing budget, right? These are funds of money that some donor gave and your marks for some specific purpose, but obviously, The Optics are not great. When a university with a multi billion dollar endowment is saying we need to furlough people we need to lay off people so I can understand the way it looks to students or people who are skeptical on the

2 (6m 18s):
outside. And this is why so many universities make the decision over the summer to come back.

1 (6m 26s):
This is one reason. Yeah, there were a couple of other factors to Beyond just the financial one was political.

3 (6m 32s):
We have especially public

1 (6m 34s):
universities operating in red States some were more or less forced to devise in person reopening plans in North Carolina and Georgia the state Public University Systems. Basically mandated that public universities. They're reopen in person

2 (6m 51s):
when school say

1 (6m 52s):
they're coming back and students are you know sitting at home

3 (6m 56s):
talking this out with their parents with their classmates what

2 (6m 59s):
exactly is the promise that universities colleges are making to hence about safety precautions that when they come back

1 (7m 6s):
when college has released their fall plans, one of the things that they signal to students who has we know this is what you want. We know that this is what we can deliver to you. Is this in-person experience. We want to bring you back and so in their plans, they may have spelled out testing protocols quarantine space isolation space all the kinds of things that you would expect but it all came with one big caveat. Which is yes, we want to bring you back. We're going to bring you back. But we recognize that any attempted planning a fall semester and a pandemic is a little tenuous and we might have to

2 (7m 46s):
readjust. So what happens when these schools finally decide to come back. So let's look at an

1 (7m 52s):
example. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill was one of the first big colleges to begin returning students to campus and this was in early August. Yes.

2 (8m 4s):
It's been a busy day here at UNC at Chapel Hill where students have been moving in the dorms all day long. Now while some students still have some concerns about moving back in for the most part students here tell me they feel safe coming back. So they move students in

1 (8m 21s):
they have their first day of classes. Everything seemed to be going Fine, but a couple days after the first day of classes the university all of a sudden starts to report clusters of coronavirus cases in University Housing in off-campus housing and in Greek houses so quickly these clusters start to add up and UNC didn't do any re-entry testing of students. It didn't have any surveillance testing to speak of so they were basically just doing symptomatic testing. So you start feeling sick come to campus health get tested for your out. If you have coronavirus and what you see is, you know, a portrait of uncontrollable spread on a college campus such that a week after they had their first day of classes.

1 (9m 6s):
They had to shut down because they just couldn't keep a handle on the spread anymore or couldn't at all.

2 (9m 13s):
It's very heartbreaking that I have to move out after less than like a week of back so college experience and less than a week of classes. It's very heartbreaking what we

1 (9m 28s):
saw there and at NC State University just down the road is that campuses with strategies like that? That didn't do surveillance testing that didn't require negative test for students to come

2 (9m 40s):
back. We're really

1 (9m 42s):
seemingly underprepared for the risk that coronavirus posed.

2 (9m 46s):
How were they under prepared though? I mean, how could they not come back with the safest plans possible? I mean, I think a lot of people might be Confused that they thought they could just have students come back and that there wouldn't

3 (9m 58s):
be outbreaks.

1 (9m 59s):
I'm confused too to be honest because one of the things that scientists and public health experts were saying over the summer is that you need stuff like surveillance testing you need is vigorous as rigorous testing operation as you can get now in the University's defense, I guess they have not gotten clear guidance from the government the federal government by any stretch of the imagination. Nation, in fact the CDC explicitly did not recommend asymptomatic testing for all students on campuses because they said it could give campuses a quote-unquote false sense of security Now Public Health experts looked at that or some did and really felt that that was really really risky in it.

1 (10m 46s):
Pretty much guaranteed. You're going to have a fair number of positive cases on your

2 (10m 50s):
campus. Is there any college campus University campus that you know gives you hope it all this is there one that sort of stands out that did this better than everyone else and made the right decisions the first time around

1 (11m 9s):
so there is one University that has pulled out all the stops gotten some press for it. That's the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

2 (11m 22s):
after. Recon today explained I'll talk to the chancellor of the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign support for the show as you heard at the top of the show. And again as you'll hear at the end of the show, but not for me from someone else. It comes from the Michelle Obama podcast, which is now out on On Spotify don't look for it where ever you listen cuz it's only in the one

1 (11m 57s):
place this one. It's special that way

2 (11m 60s):
Michelle says she wants this series to be a place for you listener to explore meaningful topics together with her with her friends with her family and sort through many of the questions that people are trying to answer in their own lives right now. Perhaps most of all she's hoping this podcast will help listeners open up new conversations and hard conversations with the people. Outermost them like Dad. Are you really going to vote for Donald Trump to get I'm sorry. That's your dad's personal business. Anyway, that's how Michelle Obama thinks people will build more understanding and empathy for one another check out the show episodes focus on the relationships that shape us from siblings and close friends to partner's parents mentors to our relationships with ourselves and our health.

2 (12m 44s):
All the episodes are free at Spotify.com, Michelle Obama. Robert Jay Jones, you are the chancellor of the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. And our friend Andy Thomason just told us that your institution did a better job than most at handling the return to campus during this pandemic. Tell me. Why did he say that?

3 (13m 15s):
Well, I believe you may have said that because once we navigate our way through moving to remote we immediately began to think about what was going Be necessary in order to bring our students back to campus in the fall and it became very very clear that the testing protocols that were available at the time what not allow us to do rigorous testing at a way that was affordable and scalable. So our Provost contacted. Dr. Marty Burke, who is the associate dean of our medical school as well as a renowned chemist. They pulled their Labs with boarded a hundred people to start to aggressively working to create what we believe. Lee is one of the most Innovative test in the world and that is a saliva based test that's fast is scalable less affordable and it allows us to test all of our faculty staff and students twice a week.

3 (14m 8s):
He's always been amazing diagnostic to surveillance tool and waited one of our team members put it most other folks test allows them to see the tip of the iceberg. Our testing allows us to see the entire Iceberg and that's a game changer with

2 (14m 24s):
Ali That's really impressive. I want to hear more about the game changing before we go there tell me just for people who aren't familiar with your school who may be live abroad. What's the size of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

3 (14m 40s):
University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign and blueprint not not withstanding covid. We have hard numbers students than we had last year. We have over 52,000 students about 18,000 and so faculty and staff. We're the largest. Diversity in the state of Illinois and one of the major research universities in the country and in the world and I always joke and say you can't throw a stone down any major Street and Silicon Valley and not hit several alums of the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. What's the

2 (15m 15s):
sticker price tuition for an incoming student within within the

3 (15m 19s):
United States where the resident and non-resident students for the United States. So roughly is about 38. Mm gear and for non-resident students, it could be a bit more than that depending upon whether you engineering or one of the liberal arts and sciences. Okay. So consistent with

2 (15m 38s):
what we talked about with Andy, there's a lot of money on the line here for this institution for students as well was not bringing students back on the table at any point, of

3 (15m 47s):
course, it was on the table, but we fundamentally believe that that's the best model of education and we heard from our students. Currently they wanted to be back on campus. They didn't want to spend the whole Academic Year studying from their parents basement or from the old rooms back home. They wanted to be able to reclaim as much as a traditional college experience as possible.

2 (16m 12s):
Were you hearing from students who also said, you know, we're really concerned about coming back and we'd rather stay virtual stay online.

3 (16m 20s):
They had that option we provided to option for students to choose. We made it very very clear to It's we put all of our classic with more than 50 students are all online. We have about 9,500 people who are taking this semester online. That's about the most a quarter of our over enrollment. But yet it's important to note that about 60% of that 9500 still decided to come back and be an apartment of being a dorm room to be able to capture some of the experience so We didn't force anyone to come

2 (16m 57s):
back. Okay, so with that on the table with with with students and professors having an option to come back or stay remote. What's the plan

1 (17m 7s):
for those who want to come back as you head into the new Academic Year

3 (17m 11s):
the plan if you came back, we had a requirement that when students checked in for the fall semester. The first thing I had to do was go to one of our 17 to 20 test sites and get tested. That was an absolute requirement. We've made It's clear that wearing a face covering was a requirement that social distancing was going to be a requirement. We encourage them to wash their hands and to avoid large Gathering all of that was laid out. And so we've been very very clear very transparent about what our expectations and we made it clear that you have to test twice per week. We work closely with the mayors of Urbana and champagne mayor Farnum are Marla they work with the restaurants and bar owners.

3 (17m 55s):
Hours to put restrictions on the drinking age

2 (18m 0s):
we move

3 (18m 1s):
to outside dining before the students got here as well as put significant fines in place for Gatherings that went above the limits that the city had set for those that live outside of the university and so all of that restrictions that was in partnership with the city. I mean, we work seamlessly with a better champagne and Savoy and surrounding It

2 (18m 25s):
is it sounds like you're heading into this new Academic Year in late August with as much precaution as you can possibly take. How many cases do you have in the first week with students with students back on campus? I

3 (18m 40s):
think it was a couple of hundred. I can't remember the exact detail, but it went up from from the double digits to Triple

2 (18m 47s):
digits compound. I have 800 is that correct?

3 (18m 51s):
Actually at that at that first week? Yeah, it probably did. Go ahead. The end of the first week because of all the parties and yes, it went up to over 800

2 (18m 59s):
and that was by far beyond any of the models that you would have predicted 800 cases.

3 (19m 5s):
Yes, the models originally predicted if people who would have adhered to what we asked him to do the model that predicted we would have no more in about 700 cases the entire semester we knew that was going to be as fact when students return we knew that students were going to want to engage in party we had model. The expected number of parties and people engaged in those parties with model it all how many parties did you expect?

2 (19m 33s):
Oh, we expected

3 (19m 35s):
hundreds of people to go to parties, but there were a few bad actors that threatened to put all of this hard work at Jeopardy by doing things that we didn't include in the model which was that if you tested positive you were told Urbana Champaign Public Health Department would be notifying you to let you know. That you have a positive test and immediately let you know what you needed to do to go into isolation and our quarantine. We did not anticipate that folks with not answer the phone. They wouldn't return the calls after they tested positive and we certainly didn't anticipate that individual diesel careless about the concern and help of

2 (20m 17s):
others. I guess I guess I guess the question I have for you then is I mean, so the reason there was this big discrepancy between your sign. I think modeling and all of the precautions you guys took and your expectations and the reality is because at the end of the day you're dealing with college kids and when you put them all together, they're going to get together, which I guess isn't very scientific. That's just maybe common sense. A lot of people might have said the responsible thing to do might have been to not let these kids get together in the first place. How would you respond

3 (20m 53s):
to that our respond to that but By saying all the dead as a counter argument that with the level of testing that we're doing. We still have the lowest positivity rate than any of our peers across this country, you know, and we believe because of our testing protocol and because of the behavior of the majority of students, our campus is probably still one of the safest places to be rather than being back home and in your community what Don't have the rigorous testing. You don't have the Restriction placed on social distancing and you don't have all the protocols we have in place and I remind people are

2 (21m 36s):
staying at home aren't they? Like I'm in a closet right now. Are they keeping to themselves aren't they may be having much smaller bubble with their families

3 (21m 46s):
with their clothes it Evans evidence goes counter to that I missed how many times do you watch TV? And you find on holidays hundreds and tons of people out partying and bars and on beaches and so they your counter argument to what you just stated is that young people left to themselves without a lot of structure and plays will do exactly what you're talking about. And we've at least provided a kind of micro environment where those kinds of things are frowned upon not only about Administration, but the vast majority of the student body and so I reject the notion that the Would be safer if we left them at home because at this juncture we have seen no spread in the classroom from students to faculty our faculty to students.

3 (22m 37s):
Our laboratory environment has been back open and operating since June 0 spread within the laboratory settings, which is a critical part of our mission.

2 (22m 46s):
So Chancellor if you're going to do this over again, if you were going to bring kids back in late August just a few weeks ago over again, would you do it exactly? Actly the same or would you have done something

3 (22m 57s):
differently, you know I have to say this is one of the most Innovative approaches and I think people have different perspectives about what success looks like, but I can tell you we other than possibility of being of adding something that we really didn't think was going to happen that people intentionally violating quarantine and isolation order. That's the only thing we could have done better and at the same time if it were not for our testing capability The fact that we can test that scale to factor we can see the entire Iceberg we've been able to respond in a timely fashion unlike some of our peers and now those positivity rates the number of positive cases per day is back down to 20, you know, 30 still we wanted more than that.

3 (23m 46s):
We want it very very low because we got a long way to go between now and June for graduation and we think we can do it. Cuz I students they have demonstrated in the last 13 days. They will respond when you treat them with respect and I could not be more pleased not only with my Innovative faculty, but I have some of the most amazing students in the world.

2 (24m 14s):
Transfer Jones. Thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate it.

3 (24m 17s):
My great pleasure best of luck to you. And as I spray the mine said to me I asked him. How is he doing? You said I'm staying positive and testing negative. I wish you to say my

2 (24m 27s):
friend. I like that. All right. Appreciate it. All right. Take care Chancellor Robert Jay Jones from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Anna champagne a school that seems to be doing a half-decent job of implementing smart guidelines and and groundbreaking testing but still ended up with hundreds of cases of covid keep in mind that unfortunately a lot of American universities and colleges are reopening without the really smart guidelines without the groundbreaking testing. But at least as my report cards used to say when I was still in school, there's room for improvement.

2 (25m 10s):
I'm Sean Rama's This is today explained the team includes will read Halima Shaman al-saadi muj, Sadie Jillian Weinberger and no MM hassenfeld who contributes original music a theme Shapiro is our engineer gold. The Arthur is our supervising producer Liz Kelly Nelson is foxes editorial director of podcast extra help this week from bird Pinkerton and Cecilia lay lots of music this week from the mysterious brake master cylinder today explained his part of the VOX media podcast Network. work This is Advertiser content.

2 (26m 9s):
One thing that I appreciate is that you guys were always good sports about following me on my various Health Journey. Look, I can't imagine rolling your eyes and Michelle Obama. I'm Tori young and I'm a writer here at Fox creative. I've been listening to the Michelle Obama podcast where she recently invited her girlfriends to talk. You were one of my White House. Mom, I was the Newbie. He knows it to be I had

3 (26m 38s):
no prior history, you know, we

2 (26m 40s):
came together really over the girls being in the same school and then we were assigned randomly to be snapped parents together.

3 (26m 51s):
And I said now

2 (26m 51s):
how do you serve

3 (26m 53s):
snacks with the

2 (26m 55s):
president and the first lady of the United State House the first lady we got Costco run which gave me a peek into the fact that no matter how famous or Successful or powerful you are your friends are going to keep you humble and laughing a lot to just like how it is with my girlfriends. So I called a few up. I really kind of love that you show up in a robe like three out of five times that we that is Friday energy right there. Okay. Should we pretend that we all just like hopped on to zoom? Hi, I can't do it. Okay Shantae.

2 (27m 36s):
I knew and I have been getting together weekly at least to be each other sounding boards silliness and Sanity that's pretty easy to notice us and a group home. And I mean first of all, we are all women of color

3 (27m 54s):
and I think in

2 (27m 55s):
a majority non diverse industry, I think we immediately Stand out and the best way in my humble opinion. I think I've told y'all

3 (28m 7s):
that I'm a big fan of pruning the tree. So I think For Better or For Worse, I have a lot of friends of

2 (28m 14s):
not color

3 (28m 16s):
who I've kind of had to let go over the years because I can only do so much hand

2 (28m 22s):
holding and educating without putting my own

3 (28m 26s):
self care and happiness at

2 (28m 28s):
risk, I think in a way I'm learning how to be a Black woman and be a woman of color by watching y'all and and talking to you and listening to you. I would say a love language of mine is just meeting somebody and being like I want to make something with you and I feel like one of the first times we met I immediately was like can we build something and one of the best ways to begin to Grapple with or to process change and in the case of Michelle Obama a very new environment is by sorting through those experiences with our people. The first time we had really had a chance to have a real conversation was when you were here.

2 (29m 13s):
You were the first lady you have you you had moved here and I get this call and someone says I'm from mrs. Obama staff and I was like what and we had a lunch when Sharon and I said down it was just like this is another me because Sharon husband Eric Holder. Was in my husband's Administration what really drew me to you is just your your attitude. It was that you were straddling that fence that I so often straddled as the wife of a politician in a world where women are just sort of accessories you were not an accessory because it really is a thing to keep close an opportunity to lift and support each other as we climb.

2 (30m 1s):
I just think every time we're logging on to assume about Shanti. Your mom saying keep this close. Thelma Thelma, he tells me we should have gotten film on here. I think never a group of good girlfriends provides a Lifeline that is is unlike any other when we can lean on each other and we can learn from each other and show up for one another no matter what we're going through that. That is how we grow.

2 (30m 41s):
Listen to the Michelle Obama podcast to hear more on girlfriend's family and the relationships that matter all episodes are available for you to binge now only on Spotify.