1 (5s):
Yesterday was an unprecedented day for a United States presidential politics and the environment we had many lines going directly many models each line being a model and they were going directly through and in all cases Alabama was hit if not lightly in some cases pretty hard, Georgia. Alabama was a different route. They actually gave that a 95% chance on one side. You had President Trump hold up a map of Hurricane dorian's path that looks to have been altered with a sharpie to include Alabama, even though the national weather service has made it clear over and over again that the hurricane will not hit Alabama right now, but I think George is going to be in great shape.

1 (50s):
Everyone's going to be in great shape because we're going to take care of it regardless regardless that's never really happened before good evening and welcome to the CNN Democratic presidential town hall on the climate crisis on the other side. You had 10 of the Leading Democratic candidates for president stopped by one by one CNN to talk about climate change tonight Democratic and independent voters will be asking the questions live here in our audience and also by video and it was in depth. It was unprecedented. It was seven hours long the mayor van watched it from beginning to end for Vox.

2 (1m 29s):
Because I have sinned and God hates me

1 (1m 32s):
was there a reason this thing needs to be seven hours?

2 (1m 35s):
Well, it was a constraint from the format the backdrop of this is that the Democratic National Committee which manages the presidential debate for map during the primary has in its rules that you cannot have an outside debate that candidates cannot participate in something that isn't sponsored by the DNC less still be barred from the main stage and they also voted down holding an official climate change debate that said in their rules. They do allow forums and Town Hall format type events. And this is the loophole that CNN decided to exploit but what that means is that you couldn't get the candidates all on stage at the same time.

2 (2m 16s):
So the result was back to back to back to back interviews. Do you remember the order it went in? I believe it started with the former Housing and Urban Development secretary who they are. Castro and then a whole bunch of blank space.

1 (2m 34s):
I'm going to say Castro not Klobuchar someone I was

2 (2m 39s):
Castro Yang Klobuchar know she was like she was like she was after the break. I'm sure Yang. Oh wait

1 (2m 52s):
Kamala Castro

2 (2m 54s):
Yank A Castro. Yankov lat Kamala Harris

1 (2m 57s):
Klobuchar. Yes. Yes Klobuchar

2 (3m 2s):
Biden Biden Bernie Warren Warren Buddha judge, but judge Beto and Booker. We did it Boomer did we doesn't feel like we did it.

1 (3m 18s):
So each of these candidates comes out does 40 minutes cut to commercial Cut 2 hurricane Dorian go to the next candidate. How did the candidates do in this long form? It was the polar opposite of the debates where it's like better one minute button 1 minute 20 seconds to respond. This was take as much time as you need go to town sit down on this chair. The candidates did pretty

2 (3m 41s):
well with this format and some embraced it far more than others. Senator Elizabeth Warren really look like she was in her element. She had some coffee. She had some coffee. She was Animated. She was engaging with all the audience members lots of jokes. Lots of

1 (3m 54s):
jokes. Let's bring in Guyana France from Philadelphia. She's retired. She's working on her second. Novel Diana. What's your question? How Diana what was the first one? I'm trying to help her Diana.

2 (4m 11s):
Okay, a lot of them. We got to flex their muscle and humor and also their policy chops and also direct the conversation. Station towards what they think are their strongest suits in this issue in terms of flood fighting climate

1 (4m 23s):
change part of the problem with the format seem like a lot of these candidates agree on a lot of stuff. There's a lot of repetition. Yeah,

2 (4m 33s):
that's right. And it was also a programming decision by CNN to sort of ask some similar questions which makes sense because if you want to compare and contrast the candidates all where they stand you do have to kind of have some standard issues that you asked them to weigh in on and they did on things like fracking on nuclear power on whether or not they would have a carbon tax. And so those particulars were pretty standard across the board, but they also press them on some of the particular issues that the candidates consider their strong suits like former Housing and Urban Development secretary. Hold on Castro was asked about housing policy.

1 (5m 5s):
I want to make sure that people are protected and that's why we would make an investment in the National flood insurance program not only to make sure that it's around but to strengthen it and improve it for everyday Americans who need

2 (5m 15s):
it and you know, Andrew Young was asked about Some of his technology oriented approaches to combating global warming

1 (5m 22s):
because you want to invest in these new technologies. I do like space mirrors and as you point out cloud seeding, which is actually spraying sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere why diverts Federal money which is obviously scarce to these unproven and potentially risky ideas when there are known Solutions out there that we all know solar power wind stuff like that that we know already works. We are here wolf together because we

2 (5m 50s):
know this is a crisis and in a crisis all solutions have to be on the table. And so if you are attacking on one side, you also should be researching various alternatives on the other and that to me is just responsible management and responsible

1 (6m 4s):
leadership. There's also a lot of talk about meet you could

2 (6m 8s):
say it was a very meaty discussion. Nice. Yes. It came up a lot in the context of what kind of sacrifices are. What kind of Demands are We have for the American people

1 (6m 19s):
like should Americans stopped eating burgers.

2 (6m 22s):
That's that's one of the talking points in one of the crew that critics of the green New Deal and other environmental proposals have come up with that fighting climate change is going to require all of us to go vegetarian or give up a lot of the things that we enjoy at the restaurant or at home

1 (6m 36s):
and I reject any notion that we have to radically or fundamentally change how we eat or what we eat. I think we just have to be more responsible in the way that we do it and the best way to do that is to allow the market to respond by setting a price on carbon in every single part of our economy every facet of American

2 (6m 53s):
Life many of the candidates had pretty similar answers that mainly focusing on the fact that climate change requires Collective and institutional action, not necessarily things that you do as individuals and many of them were distancing themselves from asking people to change their diets or driving but many of them also noted that we will have to rethink some of the aspects of our life style that contribute to this

1 (7m 14s):
except Cory Booker who's already a vegan so

2 (7m 16s):
Cory Booker, yes. Also asked about this and he himself is a vegan and but was also adamant that he wasn't going to change anybody's diet. Let's go right at this because I hear about it all the time booked her wants to take away your hamburger. Well, that is the kind of lies and fear mongering that they spread out there that somehow the Democrats want to get rid of hamburgers. Like he did Lean Into the sacrifice aspect saying that you know, as a president, I'm going to ask more of the American people than any other president in their lifetime and his point was that I want people to think about what they're doing in terms of the environment that they cannot recklessly consume or drive or live in a way that they that will contribute to the demise of the planet's climate that you know, we have to give a lot of a lot more forethought into the things that we do a lot of the candidates did have the right idea that fighting climate change requires big picture actions.

2 (8m 7s):
We need, you know, big bites of the Apple not these piecemeal things that we do like, you know, bringing reusable bags to the grocery store. They're not bad. Let's not discourage people from doing these kinds of things but There aren't going to move the needle on the big picture and that's what a president would have to

1 (8m 21s):
do. Where did they really

2 (8m 22s):
disagree? I think we saw a lot of disagreements on some of those fundamental questions of like whether or not they would have nuclear power in their vision for the future or hydraulic fracturing.

1 (8m 31s):
There's no question. I'm in favor of banning fracking and starting with what we can do on day one around public lands, right? I see natural gas as a transitional fuel. It is better than oil but it's not nearly as good as wind and

2 (8m 47s):
solar some disagreement on how much money they wanted to spend on some disagreement on some of the political tactics. They would use specifically getting rid of the filibuster. What

1 (8m 55s):
was the most surprising thing? You heard all night.

2 (8m 58s):
I mean across seven hours. There's not much left that can surprise you but it was kind of surprising that every candidate had some in-depth answers to this. This is something that all of them had given some thought to before the debate started almost all of them had put out comprehensive climate plans things that laid out how they wanted to invest Government money what their priorities would be how they would bring the rest of the world on board. That in itself is surprising given how little thought it was given in previous election Cycles. It almost did not come up at all than the 2016 campaign for president wealth in the primary and the general election. Yeah, obviously

1 (9m 35s):
the candidates weren't able to push back on each other. Did you get the sense that CNN was trying to sort of do it for them?

2 (9m 41s):
Yeah. There was some element of a vicarious debate. I mean Bernie Sanders came up a lot of times when he wasn't on stage and that's by virtue of the fact that his proposal to combat climate change. It has the biggest outlay sixteen point three trillion

1 (9m 53s):
dollars. That sounds like that's way about we'll have to ask him about this. I only know how I'm going to get the funding and I think you got to be honest with people about how you're going to get the money and what you're going to spend it

2 (10m 5s):
on. So it ended up being the Benchmark against which everybody else is climate strategy was being compared. Another point of pressure came from the audience themselves members of the audience were also asking questions. And what was interesting is Heard a lot of personal stories about how they were directly affected by some of the consequences of climate change or how they would be we heard from a mother who lost her daughter to Hurricane Sandy. We heard from homeowners who are worried that flood risk is going to price them out of their homes. We heard from workers that are worried that in the transition toward cleaner energy. They're going to lose their jobs and it was just kind of interesting that they were framing the questions this way in a deep and personal way and when looking straight at the candidates, you know, making eye contact with them.

2 (10m 47s):
They made the questions really impossible to dodge and for viewers at home. I think it kind of made the case that climate change is something that has tangible Stakes for many parts of the country as if not every part of the country one of the ones

1 (11m 0s):
I mean if we decide to pull the clip that I was just stunned by was this guy so I have a spinal cord

2 (11m 5s):
injury and part of having a spinal cord injury means that I experienced something called Thermo dysregulation or in other words. I can't regulate my body temperature. Yeah. I Can't Sweat July of 2019 was our Earth's hottest month on record and I had my health put at risk seriously more than once. Yeah. And so this is this was just somebody like who's vividly facing the risks of climate change and wants to know that you know people with disabilities are going to be disproportionately vulnerable to climate change like it's not going to be an equal opportunity threat some are going to be worse off than others. How will you deal with this you had, you know an example that you could really T off of in order to discuss

1 (11m 45s):
policy where this thing was long did the candidates in your eyes managed to miss anything where there any glaring oversights

2 (11m 55s):
none to my knowledge. I think this was a pretty comprehensive discussion and given the format and the amount of time devoted to it just about the full spectrum of climate policy was addressed from housing to dealing with the environment to just the social changes that will come with a transition towards cleaner energy and retreating from the coastlines the

1 (12m 14s):
top Democratic presidential candidates. All with us tonight on the heels of the deadly hurricane Dorian, which is leaving neighborhoods underwater in the Bahamas utter

2 (12m 22s):
Devastation it now heads North along the United States

1 (12m 25s):
Coast for the latest on Dorian. Let's go now to the CNN Weather Center one thing that certainly made this debate longer was that it felt like it was sort of sponsored by Hurricane Dorian. It was the backdrop of the debate CNN kept taking these long breaks to update viewers on its path and severity. Obviously one severe hurricane is not climate change, but you couldn't help but constantly make that connection of this is our impending reality. If something isn't done here,

2 (12m 53s):
right? That's right. It was not just a background. It was brought into the foreground. There were some extensive discussion and the candidates brought it up

1 (12m 60s):
themselves. These hurricanes are happening more frequently and they're happening with greater intensity. It seems like these floods that they call Five Hundred Year floods are happening every other year. Now

2 (13m 11s):
the concern is that you know, while hurricane Dorian is now the largest tropical storm. Year, it was teetering on the brink of her Category 3 strength off the coast of the Carolinas during the debate. So there was a lot of imminent concern for people on the coast. This was something that was clear and present in terms of climate change though. I mean it's there's not a real Trend in terms of the frequency of hurricanes, but we do know that the ingredients that make hurricanes more dangerous are being worsened by climate change specifically things like sea level rise. We know that since the Industrial Revolution warming has caused the oceans to rise by certain amount when the Oceans Rise by that much amount that causes that much more storm surge and Inland flooding similarly.

2 (13m 53s):
We know that warming air temperatures have led to more torrential rainfall. And so it's leading these tropical storms to dispatch more and more rain over a smaller area and that contributes to flooding another Trend that we're starting to get a sense of is that these hurricanes are starting to move slower or that they tend to park in a certain area for a long time. We saw hurricane Dory and park over the Bahamas and you know, just Wallop the Lens there for several hours much longer than it would have if the storm kept moving. So these are some of the trends that were exacerbated and we expect to see more of in the future

1 (14m 26s):
the constant referencing of hurricane. Dorian was a reminder that this is an international issue obviously, but so much of the Town Hall was focused on what the US can do to slow or stop climate change. How much is the u.s. Responsible for global climate change and and and what role should it be playing in slowing it down

2 (14m 49s):
several of the candidates pointed out that the United States is only 15 percent of global

1 (14m 53s):
emissions. The rest of the world makes up 80% 85% the problem if we did everything perfectly everything and we must and should in order to get other countries to move. We still have to get the rest of the world to come along and the fact of the matter is we have to up the ante

2 (15m 8s):
considerably that's true. But if you look at historical emissions, if you look at the cumulative emissions put out the United States beats out the rest of the By a long margin, it means that basically most of the CO2 that is in the air or that a large part of the warming that we've seen so far is due mainly to the United States. And so we have sort of a historical obligation to combat climate change. If you look at it from that perspective. The other thing is that the United States has a high amount of per capita emissions meaning that while China and India may start emitting more than the United States they have billion and a half people. They're dividing those emissions among into much smaller pieces per person. We have much fewer people and our people in the United States have a much larger carbon footprint.

2 (15m 50s):
We have a disproportionate share of the global contribution to climate change. Also, the United States is one of the largest and most powerful economies in the world as an important leadership role on these environmental issues where we go. A lot of other countries will follow we set the international agenda on trade on the environment on defense and so we can through our actions, you know Drive other countries to do the same.

1 (16m 14s):
But of course a fact that was not lost on these candidates last night is that we have current leadership doing absolutely nothing. If not actually contributing to this issue. How are they dealing with the political reality of climate change in the United States?

2 (16m 31s):
I mean, yes, it was fun to dunk on Donald Trump and some of the things that he said about climate

1 (16m 34s):
change just today the Trump Administration announced plans to overturn requirements on energy saving light bulbs. It's obviously a move that could increase greenhouse gas emissions. Would you and reinstate those requirements as well? Do you think that the government should be in the business of telling you what kind of light bulb you can have? Oh, come on. Give me a break.

2 (16m 59s):
But the bigger question that was what will they do with the political power they have once they're in the White House and that's where the question about the Senate filibuster, you know became really important that you know, if they don't have a strong majority in the Senate what levers They pull in order to drive their climate agenda. So some of the candidates talked about how they would work with states and cities and try to bypass the federal government. We are underway on a climate action plan. We were one of the cities that committed joining with cities around the world to live up to the Paris commitments. Even if our national governments are failing to do it and some of them are talking about using their executive power, you know, writing executive orders, but then that also left the question of you know, how do you ensure that the following president doesn't undo everything you did just the way Trump is doing with President Obama.

2 (17m 45s):
So that was a difficult question for some of the candidates and yeah, it's a really tough one to answer. How do you ensure you have a lasting Legacy without the overwhelming political support that our political system demands that we got a good sense of I think some candidates have better answers for that than

1 (17m 60s):
others. I was part of a Committee hearing during which the underlying premise of the hearing was to debate whether science should be the basis of public policy this on a matter that is about an existential threat to Who We Are Human beings

2 (18m 15s):
Senator Kamala Harris for example was pretty adamant that she wanted to get rid of the

1 (18m 18s):
filibuster. If they fail to act as president of the United States. I am prepared to get rid of the filibuster to pass a green New Deal.

2 (18m 26s):
Whereas female Senator Bernie Sanders said he wouldn't

1 (18m 29s):
but what I have said repeatedly is we need major filibuster reform and second of all just as Bush got through major tax breaks for the rich to the budget reconciliation act we can do that as well. You mentioned how this is basically never happened before how how certainly we haven't seen ten major candidates from either Party come sit down for seven hours and talk about one issue. But also that in the 2016 presidential election, not nearly as much attention was given at any point to the environment specifically watching it. I couldn't help but feel that this in some way came out of all of the momentum and enthusiasm Behind the Green, New Deal.

2 (19m 14s):
Absolutely. This was a product of a nearly years-long organizing effort by environmental activist groups in particular the sunrise movement. This is the group that has made the green New Deal their calling card and they have Force every candidate to weigh in on it. The sunrise activists were the ones that were actually campaigning outside the headquarters of the DNC demanding of climate debate. He asked to go up and have a meeting with that with members of the DNC and they refused they lock the doors on us and you can you can bet when the the oil and gas lobbyists come here. They don't give the doors locked on them and they got sub memos to the candidates to actually agree that they wanted one as well. So they were able to build a core of support for hosting an event like this in the first place and by you know, holding up the green new deal as their essential platform.

2 (20m 2s):
They were able to get the candidates to weigh in on it and talk about where they stood in online where they disagreed and then offer up their own more robust versions of it. So they really set the agenda

1 (20m 11s):
here and what did they get now that we've And it's kind of sort of the first climate debate in the history of the country what feels different today. Nothing

2 (20m 26s):
asking me in the morning after I was up till 2:00 a.m. Last night. I'm

1 (20m 30s):
sorry. You didn't sleep it remains to be

2 (20m 32s):
seen is the frustrating answer to this. We don't know how the rating shirk out. We don't know how it's going to be reflected in polling. But we do know that presidential campaigns are taking it. Seriously that this is now something that is front and center on the agenda for who's going to be the Democratic nominee to be president and it will likely carry over into the main general election campaign against whoever will Face Donald Trump. This is an issue that is now impossible to ignore.

1 (21m 11s):
No mayor van needs a nap. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained.