0 (1s):
Columbia has a hippo problem, which is weird, right? Because Columbia historically doesn't have hippos, except now it does.

2 (12s):
That's right. Dozens and dozens of hippos have found themselves very far from home, and now government officials and biologists have to figure out what to do about

0 (21s):
It. How they got there involves Pablo Escobar and mountains of cocaine. But the question is how to get them out because they're causing all kinds of problems. And what Pablo Escobar's cocaine hippos can teach us regular non-drug lords about pet ownership that is coming up on today. Explained

3 (60s):
Support for this podcast comes from Robo Rock. You might not realize this, but automatic vacuum cleaners are driving the future of cleaning and the S eight Pro Ultra from Robo Rock is among the best in its class. It's built to detect and avoid objects, vacuum, mop, and more. Plus, with its upgrading ultra dock, the S eight Pro Ultra can empty wash, refill, and even dry itself fast. The high-tech dock allows the cleaner to get back to work 30% faster than before. Make cleaning effortless, simple, and elegant With the S eight Pro Ultra. Right now, you can get the combo of the S eight Pro Ultra and Dyad Pro for 15% off.

3 (1m 41s):
Only on Amazon shop before April 25th. To save support for this podcast comes from sax.com. sax.com. Editors are always tracking the top styles that are trending right now. Tailored blazers and mid dresses are selling fast@sax.com, especially from brands like Veronica Beard and the row and sax.com. Editors are seeing ves oversized tote on the streets of New York, Milan and Paris. If you want your own free personalized trend recommendations sex.com, stylists can do that and more. Plus, there's free shipping and returns all the time@sac.com.

4 (2m 23s):
Today, explained

0 (2m 29s):
Today, explained Sean Ramer. I'm here with Deanna Durran.

5 (2m 33s):
People in the states usually say Diana, but it's Deanna.

0 (2m 36s):
Deanna covers South America for the Washington Post.

5 (2m 40s):
I'm in Bogota, Columbus Capital

0 (2m 43s):
Where they're having a hippo problem.

5 (2m 46s):
Yeah, they're a problem that has been growing for the past 30 years or so. Last week we heard of an accident. A hippo was walking down the motorway and then a car came by, a family was in it, and they hit the hippo and the hippo was killed. The thing is, they're everywhere.

7 (3m 13s):
In the past year, fisherman, Pablo Hue Mejia has come across five hippos that ventured outside the theme park.

5 (3m 20s):
There is like taking more and more space because there are more of them now. And because they have no natural predators in this country,

8 (3m 30s):
They started out as just four. And now they do estimate that there are about around 130, 140. Of course, it's difficult to know.

5 (3m 39s):
When I think of this, I think of, have you ever watched this episode, this sea episode? I think it was like Aliana or something like that.

9 (3m 48s):
Tree lizard.

10 (3m 50s):
It's a vicious oval raptor. It feasts on bird eggs and lays its own eggs in the nest. The unsuspecting mother bird cares for them until the baby's hatched devour her too.

5 (3m 60s):
No one knows what to do with the, with the animals that Bart brought in.

9 (4m 5s):
What happens when we're overrun by lizards?

10 (4m 7s):
No problem. We simply unleash wave after wave of Chinese needle snakes. They'll wipe out the lizards.

9 (4m 13s):
But aren't the snakes even worse?

10 (4m 15s):
Yes, but we're prepared for that. We've lined up a fabulous type of gorilla that thrives on snake meat, but

9 (4m 20s):
Never start with

5 (4m 21s):
Gorillas. Every solution is actually a new problem.

0 (4m 25s):
Oh my gosh. Okay. Rewind for me and, and help me understand how hippos came to Columbia.

11 (4m 35s):
Hey, you know Pablo Escobar, the drug Lord. Yeah. I'm at his old house right now here in rural Columbia.

5 (4m 44s):
Let's go back to the eighties where there was this man that has become worldly renowned that, And because he had all these crazy ideas about how to be the biggest man of the country, he decided that he wanted a zoo in his estate in Tokyo. He paid off a lot of state agents to smuggle the animals because the, I mean, even for Escobar, there is no way a person can smuggle heaps in Colombia without authorities knowing.

5 (5m 24s):
And that's what he did. He smuggled in a lot of animals. It was like a, like an African safari inside his estate and among the animals that he smuggled in, there were four hippos, one female, three males, and those prohibits in the eighties became almost 200 hippos in 2023.

0 (5m 50s):
Do we have any idea why Pablo Escobar wanted to have hippo and all these other animals in Columbia?

5 (5m 57s):
Yeah, I think his personality explains it all. He had the idea that he could be so huge with regards to history and he wanted to provide the country with a legacy, with his legacy. And part of that included this ideas like, oh, well let's have a zoo. Why not? I'm so powerful that Luke, how I can do this. Because he did it because he wanted to prove the world that he, whatever he wanted to do it, he could do it.

13 (6m 26s):
Pablo Escobar was killed today, 16 months after his escape from prison, he died in a rooftop shootout with police at a home in Medellin, the

0 (6m 35s):
Basement, of course, eventually Pablo Escobar goes down, but what happens to all of his animals?

5 (6m 43s):
The animals were placed to different locations, like they were transferred to another locations and they were kept safe. And I don't know what happened exactly at that moment with a hippos, but I do know that they were set free. The nation took the estate and some of them then were relocated inside as Indianapolis, which was Pablo Escobar's estate. It was, I dunno how to say this in English, but it's like a private operator now has it, and they have a tourism business inside the estate. So they have a place for hippos actually here. And one of them run away last week. And that was the one who created the accident and the motorway

0 (7m 25s):
Were, were the hippos. The only problem, cuz you said he had a ton of exotic animals. Why is the problem we're talking about right now, the hippos and not, you know, the giraffes or, or you know, the zebras. I

5 (7m 38s):
Think they have no clue about what you do with the animals.

14 (7m 41s):
These hippos roamed free since they were too large and aggressive to capture.

5 (7m 48s):
And they probably said just for hippos, what could go wrong with that? Let's set them free. And well, we know what went wrong with that.

7 (7m 57s):
In Africa, hippos cause more human deaths than any other large animal. So far there are no known attacks in Colombia.

5 (8m 7s):
Yeah, so they have put in danger other species because they have became, they have become their predators. Manillas manatees, nus otters like local river animals who are tiny. And because hippos are so, so territorial, they don't want any other animals where they are placed. Their feces are very toxic to the water. So they're polluting the rivers too.

14 (8m 34s):
This fuels algae blooms and reduces oxygen available for native fish.

5 (8m 38s):
In the, it was 2009 that authorities actually like acknowledged there were a problem.

15 (8m 48s):
In 2009, a male hippo known as Pepe, broke out of Escobar's compound and went on the rampage. He terrorized local fishermen and farmers claimed he attacked and killed six cows. The Colombian government sent in the military to track down and execute Pepe

5 (9m 9s):
Annie was a huge scandal.

15 (9m 11s):
Protestors took to the streets in support of the hippos.

5 (9m 15s):
Why? What was it killed? Was there any other solution possible? Why are we killing hippos?

15 (9m 21s):
As a result, a judge ruled it illegal to hunt hippos in Columbia.

0 (9m 28s):
Has anyone thought about maybe just trying to like return them to wherever they came from? Yeah,

5 (9m 34s):
But the problem is no African country will take the animals because they're no longer native to Africa because they grew here. So if they go from here to Africa, if they're transferred, they can bring troubles in Africa. It's like having a non-native animal into the country. The latest idea on it is from a Mexican sanctuary. It's called otoc and it's run by businessmen who are also into the preservation of animals. And they won 10 of the hippos in Mexico and they were like a bridge between Colombia and India with another sanctuary there.

5 (10m 16s):
So they're gonna transfer 60 hippos to India. That's the plan so far. It's expensive, it's not easy, but it's not impossible. And it would solve half the problem here if they managed to do it. They're waiting for the permissions from the national government so they can take the animals out and place them in Mexico and India.

0 (10m 41s):
Where does the saga of Pablo Escobar's hippos end? Are you just gonna put a hippo on the Columbian flag one day?

5 (10m 48s):
I think they're having a great life here, of course, because they have no problems. A few days ago we heard of a new study that these advisors told the minister of environment that the hips should be hunted, you know, like they should be hunted down because there is no other way to deal with the problem. But the thing is, in Colombia, hips do not have a place. And that's something that we have to accept as a society, not only as like specialist saying over and over again, but as a society we have to accept.

0 (11m 27s):
That was Diana Loran from the Washington Post. She's based in Bogota, Columbia. So Pablo Escobar created this hippo crisis. Not exactly relatable, but a lot of us have pets and some of those pets are in peril. More on that in a minute on today. Explain.

1 (11m 51s):
Hey,

17 (11m 52s):
This is Noam. I'm the the host of Vox X's Science podcast, unexplainable for a show all about scientific questions that are still unanswered and everything we can learn by diving into the unknown. One of my favorite things about my job is hearing directly from our audience about why they listen. Here's one email I really love this listener said, I find myself inspired to go study science, learn work hard, and conduct my own research one day. This instills in me dreams for my future of being one of the scientists podcasts like yours call or being someone to discover a long held mystery. I can't explain how much this means to me, Honestly, reading an email like that, I just feel so lucky to be part of a show that makes this kind of impact and has these kind of wonderful listeners that take their time to tell us what this show means to them.

17 (12m 43s):
And I'm really glad Vox makes unexplainable free and accessible to everyone. Part of what makes this possible is the Vox contributions program. In April, we're aiming to add 1500 contributors to celebrate Vox X's ninth anniversary. You can go to vox.com/give today to help us reach our goal. There's also a link to give in the show notes. Thanks so much for all your support.

18 (13m 13s):
Here's the scene. You walk into a courtroom, but instead of meeting your human lawyer, you slip on a headset and you meet your AI lawyer.

19 (13m 22s):
It would listen to what's being said in the courtroom, process it with the AI and then whisper back to the person what to say.

18 (13m 29s):
This is Joshua Browder, and he tried to get an AI lawyer into a real courtroom. It didn't go well. He got sued

19 (13m 37s):
And all these lawsuits, it's just the dinosaurs suing to stop the i h

18 (13m 42s):
Browder believes AI is the future, that it's real world magic and there are a lot of people like him. There's also a lot of people who think this is all bs. I'm Peter Kafka, I'm the host of Recode Media and I'm doing a special three-part series breaking down the Hype around ai. You can find it in the Recode Media feed right now. This is something the biggest companies in the world are spending tons of money on something that's consuming Silicon Valley and it's something that has a lot of people really, really worried. I talk to all of them. So come tour the ai boom with me. The first episode is out now, it's in the Recode media feed.

0 (14m 19s):
Here's the hiphop atomist, the

20 (14m 21s):
Hiphop, hiphop. They come, the hiphop atomist. My lyrics, atomist

0 (14m 29s):
Today explained. We are back and we are here with Kenny Terrell, who's a staff writer at Vox who just recently published an article titled The Case Against Pet Ownership. Kenny, why do you hate pets?

19 (14m 45s):
You know, I've gotten a few emails this month asking me that very same question, but the thing is, is I actually really love animals. And counterintuitively, I think that's made me question pet ownership. You know, I've really come to wonder, you know, despite how much effort I put into trying to give my dog Evie a good life, I've just wondered, is she just really bored and frustrated a lot?

0 (15m 8s):
And this isn't just like a you problem,

19 (15m 10s):
I don't think it's just a me problem. You know, I think we have this narrative that pet keeping is this pure and innocent and totally positive endeavor. You know that pets are family members. Nine outta 10 people say that about their dogs and cats. And I think, you know, that is true for a lot of people and animals that they enrich our lives, we enrich theirs. But if you start to dig under the surface of that narrative, you can find a lot of ugliness. So there's all the obvious stuff that any decent person would condemn, you know, like dog fighting or puppy mills or animal hoarding to go on the more extreme end bestiality, physical abuse.

0 (15m 52s):
That is very extreme.

19 (15m 53s):
It is. But you know, underneath it, there's this other layer of ethical issues in pet keeping that I think a lot of, you know, just regular people deal with. You know, there's the extreme confinement in the case of small animals like fish and mice. There's abusive training of dogs and cats, you know, keeping animals outdoors in extreme temperatures, verbal abuse, lack of exercise, lack of vet care, boredom, et cetera. And you know, this is all happening on a huge scale. There's around 250 million animals kept as pets just in the US. And you know, to my surprise, actually fish are tied for dogs. There's about 75 million dogs in the US but also around 75 million fish.

0 (16m 37s):
And a lot of those fish are definitely living satellites.

19 (16m 39s):
Most of them, you know, in a, on a normal day in the wild, you know, they'd swim a great distance. But in American homes, you know, they're cooped up in small tanks. It's hard to imagine that being, you know, a good life for a fish.

0 (16m 52s):
Is the point of this though, that like they're here for us or is that the thing that you're taking issue

19 (16m 58s):
With? One survey that I read found that the top reasons for why we get dogs or cats are for us. You know, we want companionship, we want love and affection, we want protection. You know, we're, we're thinking about what we can get out of the relationship. And so I think for a lot of people, pets are kind of an accessory or a toy or a hobby. You know, it's why there are so-called designer dogs who are bred to be really cute or really small, but with our animals, you know, if they bark too much or they clop the furniture or they cost too much money, they go to the bathroom indoors, you know, they're seen as defective and returned or given away almost like any other defective consumer.

19 (17m 41s):
Good.

0 (17m 41s):
And then there's a chance that they might be put

19 (17m 44s):
Down each year in the US almost a million cats and dogs are euthanized in shelters each year. And an estimated few million puppies are bred and sold and they're, you know, kept at what are called puppy mills that resemble, you know, industrialized factory farms. And there's actually been a growing trend among cities and counties and states to ban pet stores from selling cats and dogs and even rabbits and some other animals in an effort to try to get more people to adopt.

10 (18m 19s):
Carter Evans tells us about California's first in the nation law aimed at protecting puppies and kittens while bringing the pet stores to heal.

22 (18m 28s):
Pure purebred puppy sold in pet stores will soon be a thing of the past after Governor Hoel signed legislation on Thursday to ban the sale of dogs, cats, and rabbits at retail pet stores.

19 (18m 39s):
So since 2010, more than 440 cities, counties, and states have banned the retail sale of cats and dogs. Some of the big states that have done this are California, Illinois, just recently New York State did did that as well as major cities like Philadelphia and Houston.

23 (18m 57s):
I don't even have the words to say how I would feel if we really had to shut our, shut our doors.

0 (19m 2s):
So are all these states in accordance with you basically saying that y'all shouldn't have these pets? What are they trying to do here?

19 (19m 8s):
So they don't ban the sale of pets outright, they really just ban the sale of pets from retail stores. But a lot of people actually end up getting their cats and dogs through more informal means. You know, if it's not the shelter, then it could be a home breeder who, you know, might be treating their animals a lot better than a puppy mill. But again, you know, each catter dog that is purchased means one that's probably gonna be euthanized from a shelter. But puppies and kittens aren't just being sold at pet stores. They're also bred and sold at flea markets and other in-person events. There's also a lot of websites where you can, you know, buy a puppy and have them shipped to, you know, near your home for pickup.

0 (19m 53s):
Okay? But these laws are aiming to like limit pet ownership or cer certainly limit like pets that are coming out of really toxic environments, but no one's trying to outlaw pet ownership and and ain't gonna happen in America. So why write the case against pet ownership?

19 (20m 10s):
Well, the subheadline was why we should aim for a world with fewer but happier pets. You know, one conversation that stuck out while I was writing this article was a conversation I had with a bioethicist, an author named Jessica Pierce who said, you know, we have this idea of our pets that they're so pampered that they just get to lie around all day and be fed treats and play with the Frisbee if they feel like it. But actually a life of just lying around and being fed treats is probably a really boring and frustrating life for a dog. And not only could it be boring, it could also be kind of dangerous. You know, we expect dogs to be docile and agreeable and to be on their best behavior at all times.

19 (20m 54s):
You know, essentially to adapt to our human norms and rules and schedules to be a dog. But, you know, live cop prophetically in a human world, which is really hard for them. And so when dogs don't act the way that we want them to, or cats, you know, we chalk it up to misbehavior and we often punish them for that. Whether that means, you know, they're physically abused or verbally abused or sometimes even abandoned, you know, around seven to 20% according to one study of adopted animals are returned to the shelter often for their behavior. And so in writing this, I really wanted to kind of dispel this really fuzzy and warm narrative that everything around the human animal bond is perfect and shouldn't be questioned.

19 (21m 45s):
And that, you know, dogs and cats are just family members, but we often don't really treat them like that.

0 (21m 51s):
And families have all sorts of problems

19 (21m 53s):
Too, Kenny. That's right. Families do have a lot of problems and sometimes family problems can get even worse when you bring an animal into them.

0 (22m 1s):
Dog divorces, I've seen 'em

19 (22m 3s):
Happen. Dog divorces. Yeah. So there, there have been cases that can drag out, but there's also a lot of stories that I've heard from parents over the years of saying, my kid, you know, really wanted a dog or a cat or a fish or a jule. And that was definitely me as a kid and my parents gave in and I think a lot of parents today given, but kids can quickly move on to the next thing and get excited about a new hobby a month later. And then the pet is left alone or maybe given to another family. And understandably for a lot of families, you know, they may get a pet or two, but then childcare comes first. And so the pet is kind of, you know, a a second class family member almost.

0 (22m 43s):
What about you, Kenny? I mean, you have a dog. I, is Evie gonna be the victim of a dog divorce one day? I'm sorry.

19 (22m 52s):
I hope not. But you know, I, I did write this article in part because I had a lot of guilt about Evie's life. You know, I think in many ways she's one of the lucky ones. You know, my partner and I, we both work from home, so we have a little more time than most people to take her on a short walk during the day or play with her a little bit. But over time I've, you know, really come to realize that, you know, what I thought was giving her a good life, you know, the occasional walk, making sure she has water and food, you know, occasional time with other dogs. I thought that that was sufficient. But after talking with more and more dog experts and animal behaviorists have come to learn that that's really the bare minimum.

19 (23m 37s):
And so I wrote this article in part just to learn more and also challenge myself and hold myself accountable to try to be a better dog dad. And I think a lot of people just don't even have the lifestyle to be able to do that. A lot of people don't work from home. Their dog or cat is just left alone for probably minimum 10 hours a day and on, you know, add on top of that when you have to run errands or, you know, childcare or social time, they're alone even more. And so, you know, I don't begrudge people for, you know, falling into a really tough point in their life where they don't have the bandwidth to take care of a cat or dog as much as they need to.

19 (24m 21s):
But I think, you know, to echo the words of Mark Beckoff, an mythologist I talked to, you know, he really drove the point home that most people shouldn't have a dog or maybe even a cat because it's a lot of responsibility. And so you're both, you know, doing a disservice to an animal if you adopt them, but then don't really have the time or energy or money to give them a great life. But you're also doing yourself a disservice because you're gonna drive yourself crazy if you know you are trying to pay the bills and take care of your kids and take care of your parents while you have a dog barking at you all day. Or a cat meowing because you know they're a board or want to go outside.

19 (25m 2s):
Ultimately we should just have a much higher bar for, for how we decide to, to get a pet, but then also have a higher bar for what a good life can look like for them.

0 (25m 12s):
Be it a dog, a cat, a fish, a gerbil or Pablo Escobars cocaine hippos.

19 (25m 21s):
That's right. Yeah. Even the cocaine hippos need a good life, which it sounds like they do if they're just romping around in the water in Columbia, it's

0 (25m 27s):
Causing other problems.

19 (25m 28s):
Kenny, it is. I think you know, Pablo Escobar probably should have thought twice before he bought hippos, but I think all of us should think twice before we get a cat or dog and really think, do we have the responsibility? Do we have the patience? Do we have the energy, the time and the money to give them a good life?

0 (25m 55s):
Kenny Terrell, Vox dog owner, her name's Evie. She's a good girl as far as I can tell. Our show today was produced by Sienna Petros, also a dog owner. Sammy hates being on camera. We were edited by Matthew Collette's dog, father of Orzo Fact checked by Laura Bullard, whose dog's Muzz and Murf hate eating salad. And engineered by Michael Rayfield who doesn't have any pets. His neighbor's dog's name is Bob, though the rest of the day explained team includes some cat people. Halima Shaz got Zoe Miles. Brian has Oui. Avi Shai artsy has waffle and Victoria Chamberlain has glitchy Cat Team Dog triumphs though Hotty.

0 (26m 37s):
Modi's got Larry Amanda's family's got Jimmy, I've got snowy at mom's house and Noelle's got an an angel named Goli. Paul Robert Moundy got Freya Patrick Boyd's got Samuel Francis Boy Leaf. And Joey Myers has the honor of living with Boris von Meatloaf. Beth Jobson Myers Amina aad trick her sister into naming her family cat. Shakespeare by promising to clean up the litter box she almost never did today. Explain is on the radio in partnership with W N Y C. We are part of the Vox Media podcast network.