1 (2s):
Everyone is worried about Ecuador. Right now Europe is worried because Cocaine from Ecuador is reaching European ports in record amounts.

2 (10s):
Cocaine that's getting through the port of Antwerp is now flooding the streets of the rest of Europe.

1 (16s):
The US is worried about Ecuador because violence from that cocaine trade is sending Ecuadorians fleeing our way.

3 (23s):
Just in fiscal year 2022, I believe 107,000 Ecuadorians arrived at the US Mexico border. That's a huge number relative to the scale of the country. And

1 (33s):
Ecuador is profoundly worried about Ecuador as drug gangs fight for control of ports, streets, and prisons. And officials there openly speculate that the country's become a narco state.

3 (44s):
At the time, I wondered if they were speaking in hyperbole, but I think the events of the last few months and and last couple weeks have shown that they weren't

1 (52s):
On today explained the world's most urgent cocaine problem.

Switch On Pop (1m 2s):
So many songs where their influences on their sleeves. It's something we hear all the time on Switch On Pop the podcast about the making and meaning of popular music. Case in 0.2, new singles from two of pop's biggest stars are in a Grande's. Yes and unabashedly interpolate Madonna's Vogue and Lil Nas X's J Christ sounds like a Kendrick Lamar humble type beat. So the question is, are these songs just a cheap copy or are they actually singing something new with the reference material? Find out on Switch. Pop with me Co-host Charlie Harding. Listen to Switch pop wherever you get podcasts.

1 (1m 33s):
Hey there. Before we get into today's show, I wanna ask you about something. So this month, primaries for the 2024 election begin and we all deserve to have clear, concise information on what this election could mean for our lives, our family's lives. Misinformation is a big deal this time around. It's not just Pope Francis in a puffer jacket. There's a lot out there that's really challenging to wade through financial contributions from our listeners. Empower us to do all of this and help us keep today explained free for everyone. You can go to Vox dot com slash give to contribute. And I just wanna thank you for your support.

5 (2m 13s):
This is today explained.

1 (2m 18s):
Lankes is The Economist woman in Brazil. Anna's been writing about Ecuador, a country that is very on edge After the events of last week.

6 (2m 26s):
Last week, Ecuador was totally engulfed in chaos caused by drug trafficking gangs. On January 7th, prison guards discovered that the leader of a very powerful gang was not in his cell.

7 (2m 38s):
This is Jose Adolfo, Macias, better known as Vito, the leader of the powerful Los Ros gang in Ecuador. He was serving a long sentence for murder drug trafficking, an organized crime in this maximum security prison in the poor city of Akil. But on Sunday, when soldiers raided the center as part of a government crackdown, authorities said he was nowhere to be found.

6 (3m 2s):
And when news of his escape spread and a nationwide manhunt was called gang members in prisons across the country, basically began rioting and taking prison guards hostage. So the next day, Ecuador's new president Daniel Noboa, declared a state of emergency for 60 days to retake control of the prisons.

8 (3m 20s):
Now this signing of the decree has basically allowed authorities to carry out search and rescue operations in this manhunt to try and find Ecuador's most dangerous and the most wanted criminal.

6 (3m 30s):
And that's when gangsters started fighting back on the streets. So they did things like detonate bombs, they burned cars, they kidnapped policemen. And some really shocking images were that a group of gangsters seized control of a television station in the middle of a live broadcast. And another armed group raided a university. And that's when the president declared an internal armed conflict. And he's ordered the army to neutralize 22 organized crime groups, including Fido's Gang.

8 (3m 57s):
3000 police officers and soldiers are currently scouring Ecuador trying to find this cartel leader. This is a serious security crisis and the escape of Feto is somewhat of an embarrassment for this president who only took office in November vowing to tackle gang related crime and a surge of violence.

1 (4m 20s):
This attack on television was spectacular. It was the kind of thing that you don't often see live on television. Can you just give us a sense of what a viewer would've been seeing if they had the TV on at that moment?

6 (4m 35s):
Yeah, it was really terrifying. So the gunmen showed up and they showed off grenades, dynamite sticks and machine guns on television, and they pistol whipped staff to the floor. And then they forced an anchor to say on television that the police shouldn't do anything.

10 (4m 56s):
A moment of utter horror broadcast live on television. Armed men with balaclavas over their face broke into the set of this public television channel in Ecuador, while it was live on air, brandishing guns and what appears to be explosives.

6 (5m 11s):
So all 13 armed gunmen were arrested. And I think the point of this attack was basically for the gangs to show off just how powerful they have become and to show off their weapons. So when you watch the clips, that's what they're literally doing. This was on air for 15 minutes. They're basically displaying grenades and machine guns on camera. Even

11 (5m 30s):
The clip we showed there doesn't show the full extent of the terrifying moments when one of the gunmen pointed at what looked like a shotgun at the anchor's neck and told him to read whatever it was that he wanted him to say. So

6 (5m 43s):
Obviously there's shock and horror. There's also been international public support. So the US government has promised to send military state department and law enforcement officials to Ecuador in the coming weeks. And there's also been regional repercussions. So Peru, which shares a border with Ecuador, also called a state of emergency on its northern border.

1 (6m 5s):
The President Daniel Noboa you said declares an internal armed conflict. What does that mean? What does that force his government to do or require his government to do?

6 (6m 17s):
It basically means that the army is going to go onto the streets and into prisons and that they have a much stronger kind of legal protection to go after these organized crime groups. But he has said that they have to follow kind of the rules of international humanitarian law.

12 (6m 32s):
Noboa in his declaration also said that he wants to, and his words neutralize more than 20 of the criminal gangs in the country. He only took office in November. So this is his first really severe security crisis and

1 (6m 46s):
Is what's been the result of that declaration.

6 (6m 48s):
So in the past week, over a thousand people have been arrested and all the hostages that were seized during the prison riots, there were over 150 of them have been freed. But there are fears that this could lead to a spiral of escalating violence and strongman approaches in the rest of Latin America have not usually worked. They have worked in some cases, but they haven't usually worked. So that is a legitimate fear.

1 (7m 14s):
Alright, let's pull back a little bit from the violence that happened. So Ecuador is located between Columbia and Peru. This is a part of the world that has dealt with drug wars, that has dealt with the drug trade. Is this time different for Ecuador though?

6 (7m 32s):
So I'll start with a really striking statistic. In 2019, Ecuador was one of the safest countries in Latin America. It had a homicide rate that was basically the same as the us but last year Ecuador's homicide rate had grown to 45 per hundred thousand. It grew more than sixfold from 2019, and that means that Ecuador is now Latin, America's deadliest country, mainland Latin America, because some Caribbean countries have higher homicide rates and the violence that's been adopted is, is really gory. It includes public hangings and decapitations and emulation of rival gang members in prisons and prisons have really been the focus of this violence. So since 2020, over 450 inmates have been murdered in prison massacres.

6 (8m 15s):
And basically this is mainly happening because of cocaine. So three things have happened in the past decade or decade and a half that have turned Ecuador into a major hub for international drug trafficking. The first is that Ecuador has become a much more important hub for Peruvian and Colombian cocaine to move to Europe and the us. The second reason Ecuador has descended into violence is because both the supply of and the demand for cocaine arising, particularly in Europe. So much of the cocaine in the US is shipped from Columbia. But according to the UN office on drugs and crime, gangs have established new roots from places like Ecuador and South America, Southern cone to Europe.

6 (8m 60s):
And then I think the third reason that Ecuador has become kind of this crime hub in South America is because bad politics has made it easier for gangs to flourish. Basically, there was a populist left wing president called Rafael Corre who was in power between 2007 and 2017. And in the name of anti imperialism, he reduced cooperation with the DEA and he had a really bad relationship with the police. And since he left, power Ecuadorian politics has been consumed by the fight between his followers and his opponents. And that means instead of focusing on, you know, the spiraling security crisis, politicians have been very focused on Elections and on getting power in Congress.

6 (9m 45s):
Meanwhile, the gangs have basically just been buying off corrupt politicians and bureaucrats.

1 (9m 53s):
Okay, so we've seen Anna how drug gangs have terrorized Mexico. We've seen what gangs have done in El Salvador. We know that it is terrifying to live in a country in this kind of disarray. And often when it gets really desperate, it leads people to flee. Yeah. Does the Ecuadorian government have a fix for these massive, massive problems?

6 (10m 17s):
There is no quick fix. One of the reasons some analysts think that the prison riots happened is because Nobel came to power only just like a few weeks ago, and he promised to establish two new maximum security prisons and possibly also like a floating prison off the coast of Ecuador where he'd put the the worst criminals. And he'd also called for referendum that would basically expand the role for the military in combating criminal organizations. And it would help the state to seize assets owned by criminals. And it would lead to the extradition, it would legalize the extradition. If the referendum is approved, it would legalize the extradition of some of these kingpins.

6 (10m 60s):
So all of that has caused obviously anger among the gangs. But some of these policies, especially the construction of kind of maximum security jails and sending the army onto the streets, they kind of ape the policy of in El Salvador. And what he has done in recent years since 2022, he's thrown around 2% of the adult population in jail for suspected links to gangs. But it's come at a huge cost because most people aren't getting a free trial. The free press has been muzzled and Boule has used his popularity to undermine, you know, the independence of Congress in the courts. So part of Nobos strategy looks a little similar to this, and that's what I mean with, there are some legitimate fears that this could really lead to escalation of violence in the short term and then of human rights problems in the long term.

6 (11m 56s):
But it's not entirely clear what else he can do right now. So he has also, you know, called for the reestablishment of an anti-narcotics unit in the police. And I think generally the extradition of criminals and also the seizure of their assets are, are a good thing. So I think basically right now it's really hard to know what the right thing to do is. And this is, it's, it's not, there's no easy solutions to this because at the heart of the problem is rising demand for cocaine and also rising supply.

1 (12m 31s):
That was Lankes of leading magazine. The Economist, coming up a little bit about cocaine.

On with Kara Swisher (12m 51s):
Hi everyone and welcome to 2024. I'm Kara Swisher, host of the podcast on with Kara Swisher from Vox Media and New York Magazine. On the show this week, I'm joined by a panel of experts to talk about one of the biggest stories of 2024, the presidential election and the possibility of a second Trump term in 2025. The journalists in this week's episode have done some of the best reporting on Trump from his current legal predicament to his campaign efforts and everything in between. Here's one of our guests, New York Times senior political correspondent Maggie Haberman on Trump's influence, One of Trump's, you know, hallmark maneuvers is creating his own weather and essentially refusing to accept that anything else is fact and that he has proven remarkably durable in doing that with the GOP, Creating his own weather. Yeah, it looks like a storm's coming in for that and more. This episode is available now wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (13m 53s):
It's today explained. We back Will Freeman is with me. Will is a fellow for Latin America studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. He spent some time in Ecuador talking to key players about their fears that the country is becoming a narco state or a place Where The drug trade is knit into everything. Ecuador sits between Peru and Columbia. Both big producers of cocaine will says, for many years it was a Colombian group far that controlled the drug trade in Ecuador. While it's government,

3 (14m 24s):
The government for the most part stay out of the Farks way. So there was sort of a, a defacto agreement, if you will, to hear no evil, see no evil look the other way. And it kept things relatively stable. Now all that started to change in 2016 when demobilized as part of a peace accord with the Colombian state.

15 (14m 47s):
After more than five decades of bloodshed, there may be a chance for peace in Columbia. Again, the Colombian government and the Marist gorillas known as Fark are due to sign a revised peace deal Thursday to end the conflict that has killed more than 200,000 people and forced millions more Colombians from their homes.

3 (15m 4s):
You saw a power vacuum emerge in Ecuador and the situation got much, much more complicated with different groups from around Latin America and around the world swooping in to try to control this valuable piece of turf,

16 (15m 18s):
A gum battle inside the walls of a prison. Not a rare occurrence in Ecuador. Criminal groups from Mexico, Columbia, and Brazil have long battled for control inside Latin American prisons, which they use to orchestrate drug trafficking and other activities on the outside.

3 (15m 36s):
By all means, from what we know, it does seem that increasing volumes of cocaine are flowing over the borders, especially of Columbia into Ecuador last year. Now, ex-president Guillermo Lasso, who held office from 2021 to 2023, said his government seized the largest volume of cocaine ever in Ecuador's history. Now, on the one hand, I, the government tried to tout that as a success, but what it really shows us is that the volume of drugs is, has never probably been greater flowing through Ecuador.

1 (16m 7s):
So the drugs come from Columbia and Peru and they end up in Europe. Can you walk us through the journey of how they get from the initial point through Ecuador and then to their final destination? What does this look like?

3 (16m 20s):
Let's take one common route, for instance, from the south of Columbia, from a department like put Mayo or Narino,

17 (16m 27s):
If you know where to look, it's not hard to find illegal plantations of coca leaves the main ingredient of Cocaine.

3 (16m 34s):
So what you'd see is, you know, farmers basically controlled by Colombian organized crime producing coca, which in recent years has reached levels we've never seen before. I mean an absolutely unprecedented volume of coca being grown produced. You're then seeing it trafficked over the border by different Colombian groups, in some cases by Venezuelan groups. And what you're then seeing is the drug move along transit routes in Ecuador.

18 (16m 60s):
Small fishing boats like these and homemade submarines also take Colombian cocaine north.

3 (17m 8s):
Once the drug is actually out of these isolated rural areas in southern Columbia and on the road in Ecuador, it's relatively easy to move there. In Ecuador, you're seeing local gangs violently fight each other for supremacy in Ecuador's port cities. Increasingly what these gangs and cartels are doing is smuggling drugs into container ships, which are then of course also carrying legal goods, then fan out across the entire world to ports like Rotterdam and Amsterdam in the Netherlands to Australia to other countries. And just by a twist of fate, making this all the more complicated, bananas are one of Ecuador's largest exports. That's a lot of what's being shipped through some of these ports.

3 (17m 50s):
And of course you need to move those containers quickly. Bananas will rot,

18 (17m 53s):
Luscious. Tropical fruits, especially bananas, are exported from quill's Pacific ports to Europe, Asia, and Russia. So far this year, more than 300 tons of cocaine have been confiscated in cargo.

3 (18m 7s):
So you're dealing with a situation where containers are constantly being loaded on and off ships. There is very little in the way of infrastructure to screen what's happening despite persistent government efforts to get something installed. Now from there, these container ships, let's just pick one destination. Many of them will end up at Rotterdam, one of the busiest ports in northwestern Europe and be offloading goods every week, every month in which there is some amount of hidden cocaine.

19 (18m 35s):
Customs officials in the Netherlands have netted the country's largest ever haul of drugs. They seized the shipment of over 8,000 kilograms of cocaine in the Port of Rotterdam on the 13th of July.

3 (18m 47s):
Just last year we saw officials from EU member states, Norway and Turkey seized 307 tons of cocaine across the EU and also Europe's ports that's quadruple the volume of cocaine seized in 2016. So that should give you a sense of the way this problem is really escalating and where many of these drugs move through Ecuador ultimately end up.

1 (19m 11s):
It also gives us a sense if that much supply is going in, presumably there's that much demand in Europe for cocaine.

3 (19m 18s):
Yeah, that's right. I mean, we can just read by the signals we get from these drug seizures by discoveries made by European officials across the continent. But it does seem that we're seeing ever larger amounts of drugs bought and sold in Europe

20 (19m 33s):
On a night out. We met hairdressers, bar staff, a teacher and medical workers who said they used Cocaine.

21 (19m 40s):
I have done cocaine before and I would say yeah, it is like a fun experience and stuff, but I do find like it is very regular. You do get like a lot of people offering it on the streets and stuff.

1 (19m 52s):
Many Americans associate cocaine with these smuggling networks between the US and South and Latin America that started in I guess the 1980s. you know, we've all seen the the, the movies and the TV shows. How did it end up that Europe is the final destination and not the United States? Or is the United States also getting cocaine that comes through Ecuador?

3 (20m 13s):
The United States is still absolutely a major consumer, if not the largest consumer in the world of cocaine. Mr.

22 (20m 21s):
Hannah, we were able to do drugs during the day and and still function, still do your job.

23 (20m 27s):
How the fuck else would you do this job? Cocaine and hookers my friend,

22 (20m 31s):
Right?

3 (20m 32s):
But compared to the 1980s, it's market share has decreased. We've seen Europe, Australia parts of Asia start to consume more and more. While at the same time we've seen Americans turning evermore often to fentanyl, to opioids, to methamphetamines. So I think that we're seeing the shift partly as Latin, American and European criminal organizations, which we're used to being able to ship so much to the US are looking in a very entrepreneurial way, if you will. They're looking to see where else they can sell their product and they found a very receptive market in Europe. Alright,

1 (21m 6s):
So you've seen really unfortunate and at times devastating violence on the front end in Ecuador. Is there violence on the receiving end in Europe?

3 (21m 16s):
More than you might expect, because often that's not the impression we have of Northwestern Europe. Think about a country like the Netherlands who associates the Netherlands with Gangland style hits on reporters and judges or the kidnapping of port officials. That's, those are actually incidents we've seen over the last couple years there. Enough to prompt the mayor of Amsterdam a couple weeks ago in the Guardian to publish an op-ed saying that she's worried about the Netherlands becoming a narco state in all seriousness. So I think that this is a problem that if the EU doesn't step up and get a handle on, you know, we could see it as the source of more and more violence in that part of the world as well.

1 (21m 54s):
We have had in the United States, as you know, a long and protracted war on drugs. Mm. That today is widely viewed as unsuccessful. Right? We've also seen strong men leaders in South and Latin America try to take on narco traffickers. How does Ecuador start to combat this problem without making the mistakes that we've made for the past generation or two? First

3 (22m 19s):
I'd say let's reconceptualize this. Let's look at the problem as it is. I'd argue that that's not only as a problem of drug trafficking, but as a problem of organized crime. So Ecuador, the rest of Latin America for that matter, needs to win a war against organized crime, not just drug trafficking. Why do I bring it up? Because these groups in Ecuador are already expanding into new illicit markets. So they started off with drugs, but increasingly they're extorting legal businesses. They're involved in illegal mining, which is hugely profitable. Some Ecuadorian officials even told me more profitable than drugs and they're involved in human smuggling and the facilitation of irregular migration through Ecuador. So what can Ecuador other countries do to start to bend the curve here and change the situation on the ground?

3 (23m 5s):
Well, I think nothing is more important than cutting the links that have formed between criminal actors, between mafias and state officials. Nowhere in the world does organized crime grow without some measure of state protection. Ecuador is no exception to that story. Going back 15, 20 years now, there have been very pervasive issues of organized crime groups, co-opting parts of the state buying off or threatening state officials into working with 'em into providing them protection. you know, I think we also really need to see serious efforts to investigate money laundering. Organized crime always depends on interfacing with the legal economy and often that can make it an even more difficult problem to tackle.

3 (23m 46s):
As listed legal above ground businesses depend on cash infusions and cash inflows from criminal actors. So before that problem really gets to be all consuming, I think Ecuador needs to take down the money launderers as well. These are some of the steps that hopefully the Danielle Novo government is considering.

1 (24m 12s):
Today's episode was produced by Halima Shaw. Matthew Collect is our editor. David Herman is our engineer. Laura Bullard. Fact-check today's episode alongside Isabelle Angell. I'm Noel King. It's today explained. Alright, we've reached the end of the show. You're still here. We put jokes in the credits just for people like you. Now all year we're gonna continue to bring clear and fact-check reporting to this election, to the stakes.

1 (24m 56s):
And we would welcome your support by giving a monthly or annual contribution. You're gonna gain access to expressions of our gratitude members only newsletters q and as with Vox reporters, Sean will come to your home or office and more to be announced. Our explanatory journalism takes resources and your support is a critical part of sustaining this resource intensive work. You can support our work at today explained by going to Vox dot com slash give and contributing today. There's also a link to give in the show notes now, if this is not the right time for you, if things are economically tricky, we got you. We'll still be here for you. We'll be doing a show about the economy soon, and we thank you for your support in advance.