0 (1s):
Lately a lot of the talk about schools in the United States has been about school shootings because of what happened. And you've already Texas a few weeks ago, but it is June, which means something a lot more hopeful is happening at schools across the country.

2 (19s):
Let's read our eighth grade graduates. Hint

0 (25s):
Today. Explain has spent the last school year checking in with an elementary school in Camden, New Jersey. Today, we go to graduation at Cramer hill elementary.

3 (36s):
As you get older, it doesn't get easier in terms of things being less uncertain, rather uncertainty gets more and more frequent than your life. And what I want you guys to do is make sure that as you go to high school and the rest of your life, you look at uncertainty and take it as an opportunity to try your best

0 (60s):
Support for the show. Today comes from, are you sleeping? It's a show you've heard a bit about if you listened to this show regularly, it's a podcast from the people over at Vox creative or our sales folks here at box media and the people over at mattress firm who consider themselves some sleep experts, no big deal. In the latest episode, people are going to find out how all that data that we've been collecting on ourselves and how we're sleeping is actually making our sleep better. Or if it is at all, listen to, are you sleeping wherever you get your podcasts and don't forget to subscribe. Are you sleeping? Is the name of the show

4 (1m 35s):
Previously on today, explained

0 (1m 38s):
Teachers and administrators have been dealing with helping kids get back on track after a year plus of quote unquote, remote learning. But now they're all back. They've been back for weeks. So it felt like a good time to ask how that experiments going. So we sent today explains miles, Brian, back to school.

5 (1m 57s):
Yeah, I went to a creamer hill elementary school. It's in Camden, New Jersey, just across the river from where I live in Philly and a couple of fast facts. It's a K through eight school. So it has kids ages, you know, five to 13 to 14. The school has about 800 kids and more than 90% of them are black and Latino, most of their families are living under the poverty line. So when you talk about kids that are at the biggest risk of learning loss during COVID, these kids are in that group. So ever since last August, I've been checking in on the school and specifically on the eighth grade class

0 (2m 29s):
And the eighth grade class, perhaps the most important, because those are the kids who are going to be graduating.

5 (2m 34s):
Yeah. I was interested in them because they had to make this huge transition, right from middle school to high school, which is always really important and often really hard for kids. But this group of kids, you know, hadn't been in the classroom consistently together since like the sixth grade. So they had this even bigger challenge than normal.

0 (2m 52s):
And it wasn't just you who was concerned about those kids.

5 (2m 54s):
Know their teachers were concerned. Their principals concerned. Basically anyone paying attention to education in America is concerned. Their concerns were grouped into two big buckets. The first was learning loss, which is a term you've probably heard a bunch at this point. You know, the worry that kids weren't going to be able to learn new stuff or retain what they had already learned on zoom school. And after so many months of coming back into the classroom and going back online and all that disruption,

3 (3m 23s):
It is my goal and mission. And the thing that keeps me up at night as a principle is by may of 2022, my eighth grade state test scores are equal to what they would have been or what they were on track to be two years ago.

5 (3m 41s):
And the second bucket was behavioral issues that kids basically weren't maturing in the way they were supposed to because they weren't together in the classroom anymore. Or at least together consistently,

0 (3m 51s):
They don't know how to interact in person while the school year is over. Now, how did it go with learning loss and behavioral stuff?

5 (3m 59s):
It was a mixed bag. I asked Cramer hill principal, Jesse. <inaudible> about how they did on these issues. A couple of weeks ago. She said, when it came to learning loss, the school has done surprisingly well, they've been surprisingly effective.

3 (4m 11s):
And so we're about at paces. We were pre pandemic, which I wouldn't even say maybe a 5% increase to where we were, which is awesome.

5 (4m 20s):
Cramer hill actually just won a national blue ribbon of excellence award for its academic performance. Nice

0 (4m 27s):
From the paps corporation.

5 (4m 29s):
I don't think so a different group, but you know, same commitment to excellence. Creamer hill has had strong academic performance, strong test scores at the end of the year. But that is definitely not the story at every school. You know, we're going to get into this in the second half of today's show, but you know, the data has generally shown that learning loss during the pandemic has been pretty severe. And that generally speaking, the longer school stayed virtual, the more kids fell behind.

0 (4m 54s):
Yeah.

5 (4m 57s):
I want to tell you about that. The second bucket, that behavioral issues, because creamer hill has struggled more with that or kids at the school have struggled more with that. Okay. Some of those issues come out in interpersonal relationships. These kids spent years interacting with each other primarily online, and they've really struggled to adjust back to IRL

0 (5m 17s):
In real life. Yeah.

3 (5m 18s):
So let's say at night or something, somebody posts something on Instagram and then they come in the next day and guess what? They're in school together. They're not in their houses behind the camera with their camera off. And then one kid will come up to another kid and say, did you say that about me online last night? Another kid would just not know what to yeah. Like I did. Right. And I think that kids really missed out on two years of a journey through interpersonal communication and how to sort of have a conversation with another kid in a way that isn't just like totally straight.

0 (5m 54s):
It's funny to hear principle is Mondi. Call-out Instagram beefs, because there are shootings in my neighborhood in DC. And sometimes when I ask a cop who I see on my way home or something, Hey, what's going on? What happened here? Was this like a drug thing? Was this like a gang thing? There'll be like, mostly this is Instagram beef. So this is like a real problem.

5 (6m 15s):
Yeah. I, I think that's real. And that's something I've heard in reporting on crime for this show before as well. And there's a huge difference between what is Mondi just described. And N you know, you're heard from these police officers about a fight that led to a shooting, but I think they both get at this fundamental issue, which is young people have not been able to develop socially and, and figure out how to deescalate confrontation in person, you know, after spending so much time online. Right. And there's another behavior issue in school that I wanted to tell you about, which is endurance

3 (6m 51s):
When you're at home, whether you're working in corporate America, or you're a student, there is an opportunity on zoom to be in your bed or wear pajama pants, or just like

5 (7m 3s):
Doesn't know anything about that.

3 (7m 5s):
No judgment here, there is a different level of energy that makes you put on a whole outfit journey to the school building. And that stamina of like by seventh period, which was a long time, kids are really spent. And we're finding that they weren't like using resources or they'd get to an end of a problem. They would just be like, well, I don't know.

0 (7m 27s):
I can relate. I mean, we see these things in the workplace and we're all adults getting paid to be here. These are kids who are hormonal going through puberty, going through all sorts of changes, plus the pandemic plus returning to school, plus all the social anxiety. Did you talk to any of these kids about how they were feeling?

5 (7m 46s):
Yeah, I did. I ran what gives mind. He was saying by a couple of kids, including jail. Barreto Brito is a star. She's got great grades. She makes her teachers happy

6 (7m 55s):
When I'm around, like my friends and stuff. I'm like the chill one. I'm the one that keeps everyone chill.

5 (8m 1s):
But she told me the thing that you have to understand is that after all those months of learning from home and then being in and out of the classroom, due to COVID outbreaks, the old normal is gone and it's not coming back

6 (8m 12s):
A sense of COVID. Everything feels different. So like having to sit in class, I'm like, this is weird because I'm used to sitting at home in my bed, watching my teacher with computer tonight. It's very weird to see them in person walking around, putting stuff on the board. It's

5 (8m 29s):
Like home it's normal now.

6 (8m 32s):
Yeah.

5 (8m 33s):
And I was thinking about what jail said in relation to masks, Kramer hill made masks optional back in March. But when I was there a couple of weeks ago, I noticed a lot of kids were still wearing them. Now, obviously that has a lot to do with trying to avoid catching COVID. But I also think masks are sort of the default look now for at least some of these eighth graders.

7 (8m 53s):
I want people to looking at my face that much. Some, some people like, so my teeth are very white and fairly light and people are always like, oh my God, your teeth are so nice. I like compliments. But for you to like 24 7 to be like, oh my God, I love your teeth. Or, oh my God, your cheeks are so cute.

5 (9m 15s):
That's Shantelle Tavarez. And I also have that problem for what it's worth. When you see me with a mask on, in the zoom meeting, I'm just trying to spare you.

0 (9m 24s):
When you started this interview, you said we were going to talk about graduation. Did you attend graduation? Did you go to the ceremony?

5 (9m 32s):
Oh, you know, I did. It was on a Wednesday morning earlier this month, actually June 1st I showed up a little bit early and went straight to the classroom of Mr. Justin Newell.

0 (9m 42s):
I remember him. He's like the Nintendo weed guy, right?

5 (9m 45s):
Yes. He's the eighth grade teacher that I spent the most time with. He famously compared himself to his Nintendo. We, me character.

8 (9m 54s):
My, we meet look exactly like

5 (9m 58s):
That morning and his classroom, his kids were talking and laughing and there were boys and button ups and fake Ray bans. Lots of the girls were in fancy dresses and heels. How are you feeling about everything

6 (10m 10s):
Also kind of nervous?

5 (10m 11s):
What are you nervous about?

6 (10m 14s):
Hi falling because I'm just clumsy.

5 (10m 16s):
Yeah. The energy was high. Everyone was vibing. It was super nice. Just for the, for the radio audience who can't see, just tell me about what we're seeing.

9 (10m 24s):
I've never quite gotten used to it. We just gathered here giving them their shirts. We're kind of just hanging out until it's time to go put the show on. I don't know if I'd ever feel prepared to like set them off to be free, like butterflies, but I just, I definitely don't feel that way now. I feel like there's still some left on the field if you know what I mean. You know,

5 (10m 44s):
I think what Newell was saying there was that even more than a normal year, it felt like there was more to do for these kids. You know, there was more to teach them. There was more experiences to go through with them. And so letting them go at the end of this year was particularly bittersweet. Principal gives Mindie was there that day too. She was cheering the kids on making sure they stayed in line a little bit longer.

10 (11m 7s):
You guys, honestly, no one needs we can cancel graduation right now.

5 (11m 11s):
Pro tip do not swear in front of your principal, even on graduation day.

10 (11m 15s):
I don't care what day of the school year it is. There's actually a reason to be

9 (11m 20s):
Here by weighing the bricks. Like

5 (11m 23s):
It's super normal in the best possible way. Like for a morning, everybody was able to forget about the chaos and challenges at the last couple of years and just enjoy themselves,

0 (11m 32s):
Not to mention the chaos and the tragedy of the last few weeks.

5 (11m 36s):
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I don't know how much that was on the kids' minds, but for the adults you've already, the mass shooting at that elementary school was, was clearly present in their minds that had happened just eight days before graduation. And I actually pulled gizmo Andy aside and asked her how she was feeling in light of that

3 (11m 53s):
Is an unexplainable feeling as a principal to know that like a tragedy, somewhere else has taken the possibility of these moments from those students. And all we can do is cherish them even more here. And it sounds corny and it sounds, you know, very surface level, but it's just so true. It's like, we cannot not have a graduation. We can not, not have a prom. We can't not, not have these moments because truly in the landscape of school shootings and the violence that plagues schools, you just never know when it'll be the last one. So we're going to just continue to like celebrate and go as big as we can for our kids because they deserve it.

0 (12m 34s):
It's like asking a lot of school administrators and teachers and students to go through the pandemic, try and recover, and then also have to deal with this constant nagging feeling that their school could be next. But it sounds like it didn't get in the way of ceremonies.

5 (12m 51s):
No, it didn't actually. So around 10:00 AM, the kids filed out of that classroom. We were just in and out onto the lawn.

2 (13m 0s):
Our eighth grade graduates give them a hint.

5 (13m 6s):
It was this perfect spring day. And there must've been like 300 family members out there cheering their kids on the kids, came out on the lawn and they, they all sat down and these rows of white chairs and looked up at the podium and, and once they sat down, their teachers took turns, giving out awards. They gave out a ton of super specific awards, different kids. No,

9 (13m 33s):
I could have put class mom. I could have put a runs. This show

5 (13m 37s):
Shanto with the good teeth, got one from Mr. Newell.

9 (13m 40s):
I made her an award called the future leader award. And this one I can't, I don't think anybody's really going to disagree with this. We go to Ms <inaudible>

5 (13m 52s):
And then gives Monte, got up and gave a sort of end of the year speech.

3 (13m 55s):
As you get older, it doesn't get easier in terms of things being less uncertain, rather uncertainty gets more and more frequent in your life. And what I want you guys to do is make sure that as you go to high school and the rest of your lives, you look at uncertainty and you take it as an opportunity to try your best, because that's exactly what you guys did this year. And ended up in a very successful year.

5 (14m 23s):
I'm not headed into high school at the end of the summer, but I thought there was some pretty good advice there for anyone.

11 (14m 29s):
Yeah.

5 (14m 32s):
Finally, the DJ fired up. Stand by me and Mr. Newell came back on stage to start handing out diplomas.

9 (14m 39s):
I'm going to keep you awake. Don't worry about it, buddy. I don't want you to going to sleep. Don't tell me what time Jose for that class, the eighth grade class of 2022, you'll be Ms. Haley. Alice.

0 (14m 57s):
It sounds so wholesome. And I guess despite everything, the theme here is that life kind of goes on at Cramer hill elementary.

5 (15m 5s):
Yeah, yeah. Was, you know, it was really nice to feel like at the end of this year, this year that we've been following these kids and their teachers and administrators, things worked out, you know, the year was relatively successful. It was a really beautiful moment out there on that lawn, under the cloudless blue sky, watching those kids pick up their diplomas,

9 (15m 29s):
The Anthony still repping the Sixers. Boom. I appreciate that. It,

0 (15m 36s):
In a minute, we're going to take a look at how the rest of the country schools are doing it's today explained

9 (15m 45s):
Jose Burgos, barely

0 (15m 57s):
Support for the show comes from, are you sleeping? The podcast from mattress firm and box creative. A new episode is going to delve into all of that data. We've been accumulating on our sleep. Do you have something that tells you how you slept like a phone or something you're wearing on your wrist? Maybe I don't. I just try to like wake up and take stock of how I slept and if it was poorly, you know, I try to do better the next day. But, but a lot of you are being smarter about that. You've got a smartwatch or an app or some device. And in a new episode of, are you sleeping, they're going to find out what data people should be paying attention to and what the future of wearable sleep trackers might look like and what we're getting out of all that sleep tracking, where doing checkout are you sleeping, subscribe wherever you listen.

0 (16m 47s):
It's the podcast from Vox, creative and mattress firm. That's aiming to help you sleep a little better. Sweet dreams.

13 (16m 59s):
Horace Mann used to argue that schools are the balance wheel of the social machinery. And I think we got a chance to see that that when schools closed gaps, widen

0 (17m 11s):
Ramez from today explained, we have spent a lot of time looking at how the pandemic played out at Cramer hill, but to close this series out, we wanted to get a better sense of the bigger picture. So we hit up Tom Kane, he's a casual Celtics fan and faculty director of the center for education policy research at Harvard. He and his colleagues recently published the most comprehensive look at learning loss during the pandemic to date,

13 (17m 38s):
Our research covered 10,000 schools, 2.1 million students in 49 out of 50 states plus DC.

0 (17m 48s):
Let's talk about what you found, what were your takeaways?

13 (17m 53s):
So we found that in parts of the country where schools did not shut down, students lost ground. So remember everybody went remote in spring of 2020, and we see that that achievement slowed down even in places that went back to in-person pretty quickly in 2021. However, in places where schools remained remote for more than half of 2021, there were much larger losses, especially for students attending high poverty schools in schools that remained in person throughout 2021, students lost about seven to 10 weeks of instruction, but there was no widening of gaps between black and white students, between high poverty and low poverty schools.

13 (18m 48s):
Everybody lost about the same amount in schools that were remote for more than half of 2021 achievement gaps widened pretty dramatically between high poverty and low poverty schools between blacks and whites, between whites and Hispanics students in high poverty schools in those districts lost the equivalent of 22 weeks of instruction. So more than half a year,

0 (19m 20s):
How exactly do you measure that? Is it, is it test scores? What is it grades?

13 (19m 25s):
So we're measuring this with students, achievement growth on math and reading tests. So when we say students lost ground, I'm not literally saying people forgot how to do algebra or forgot how to read it was that they didn't grow as much in algebra or math and they didn't grow as much in reading as we would expect them to grow.

0 (19m 49s):
And when we talk about where schools stayed open and were schools closed, are we essentially talking about, I don't want to be reductive here, but, but red states versus blue states,

13 (19m 59s):
There was a partisan component to the schools, shut down decisions. So states like Florida and Texas were much less likely to close schools during the pandemic than states like Maryland, Illinois, New Jersey.

0 (20m 16s):
So what do schools do now to make up for what's been lost?

13 (20m 22s):
Well, I know everybody is eager to get back to normal, but I hope people recognize that normal is not going to be enough. That many districts are thinking about things like high dosage tutoring, double dose math. So

0 (20m 40s):
Double dose math. It sounds like a kid's worst nightmare.

13 (20m 43s):
So giving students an extra period of math instruction or reading instruction, if it's in the early grades, these

0 (20m 51s):
Poor kids,

13 (20m 51s):
Right? Well, people aren't doing the math on just how much of this additional help students are going to need. So based on our calculations, students in a high poverty school that was remote for half the year of 2021, virtually every student in those schools would need a tutor in order to, to catch up, to make up for the lost ground. You know, so tutoring works, but I don't think people realize the scale of effort that would be required. The logistically, which is politically the least popular option would be extending the school year over the next couple of years.

13 (21m 36s):
And then paying teachers, you know, time and a half and school bus drivers and other school staff make it worth people's while to teach the, the additional time school districts have the dollars through this federal aid that they've received over the last couple of years. And we just need to be thinking about what's the scale of effort that's going to be required to help students catch up.

0 (22m 2s):
I imagine there's a finite amount of time to address the learning loss that these kids experienced in the pandemic. When exactly does this need to happen, or how long do schools have to fix this?

13 (22m 18s):
Over the course of the pandemic schools have received about $190 billion in federal aid. And much of that money is currently unspent, but the school districts have until the end of 2024 to spend those dollars, we should be talking now about things like extending the school year. My fear though, is people are underestimating the scale of the effort that's going to be required.

0 (22m 50s):
I mean, you're talking about some improbable solutions, right? Extending school years, paying teachers more, getting everyone a tutor. It all sounds smart, but we don't always choose the smartest path. What happens if we don't address these gaps? If we just keep passing kids along because we don't want to hold them back.

13 (23m 13s):
We see what's the relationship between students achievement scores and earnings later in life. And based on those relationships, like a 22 week loss in instruction for students in a high poverty school would translate into about a 5% lower earnings over the rest of their career. Now that may not sound like a ton, but actually if you add that up, the, the entire economy, if these losses became permanent, it would result in about a $2 trillion loss in present value of future earnings for our students.

13 (24m 5s):
Whether we agreed with the school closure decisions or not. The fact is those were public health measures that were taken on our behalf and adults have an obligation now to pay the bill for that and not expect our students now to pay that bill because they will pay the bill in terms of lower earnings and higher high school dropout rates and lower college going rates. If we don't do anything about it.

0 (24m 38s):
Tom Cain is a gentleman of Harvard Harvard center for education policy research to be specific. Our show day was reported and produced by miles Bryan. His teeth are fine. Miles had helped from Matthew Collette, a FIM Shapiro and Laura Bullard it's today explained happy summertime kids

8 (24m 60s):
<inaudible> look exactly like

0 (25m 14s):
Support for the show has come from, are you sleeping? Apparently one in three Americans is using a wearable device or app to track their sleep activity or their activity, including sleep. But now that we have more data than ever, how can we make sense of the numbers to improve our sleep and health overall? And the latest episode of our you sleeping listener. Elizabeth asks for help with her sleep data and host Kate Berlanti talks with sleep experts about what data matters most for everyone looking to maximize their rest, listen to, are you sleeping wherever you get your podcasts.