0 (0s):
Today explained Sean Ramas firm. If I told you the United States Senate was working overtime last night, what would you think? They were hashing out something about Ukraine. Maybe something about the debt ceiling. Maybe they were talking about train derailments. Turns out, no, the United States Senate skipped dinner to undo Washington DC's new crime Bill.

2 (23s):
The DC Revised Criminal Code Act is another example of how far left. The far left is so out of touch.

3 (29s):
The resolution represents my chance to say Enough is enough.

4 (35s):
It sends the wrong message that DC is not serious about fighting crime.

0 (40s):
Why Congress and even the president of the United States took it upon themselves to govern the nation's capital for the first time in over 30 years coming up on the show.

1 (52s):
Hello,

5 (59s):
I'm a Krosky and the host of a new podcast from The Economist called Next Year in Moscow. For many Russians, Vladimir Putin's full scale innovation of Ukraine also felt like an attack on their own country's future. Hundreds of thousands flat. I've been talking to this new exiles because their stories helped bring to life the mystery of why this senseless war began and how it might end. Next, Ian Moscow from The Economist is out now on your podcast app. Join me today and start listening.

BetterHelp (1m 30s):
Support for the program today comes from better help. Getting to know yourself can be a lifelong process, especially since you're always growing and changing. Darling Therapy can help you deepen that self-awareness because sometimes you don't know what you really want until you talk things through. Better Help connects you with a licensed therapist online, one who can take you on that journey of self-discovery from wherever you are, better help may help you discover your potential. You can visit Better help.com/explain today to get 10% off your first month. That's better. H e l p.com/explained

1 (2m 3s):
Today.

0 (2m 4s):
Explained

6 (2m 6s):
Now you say now, Francis

1 (2m 10s):
Today. Good job.

0 (2m 13s):
Full name is Martin Ostro Mul and I am a reporter with W A M U 88 5, the NPR station in DC where you can hear today explained Monday through Thursday at 9:00 PM I digress. Martin, just tell us right off the bat what just happened in Washington DC It's a bit of a big old mess, which is kind of Washington DC in a nutshell. No,

7 (2m 32s):
This is me in a nutshell. Help. I'm in

0 (2m 34s):
A nutshell. No, this is specific to Law and order criminal justice, public safety in Washington dc but being that it's Washington DC it quickly became a national issue. The fundamental of it is that the District of Columbia, which is a self-governing city, wanted to rewrite its criminal code, which is all the criminal laws on the books, which are very old. That's why they wanted to rewrite them. They ended up doing that. They, it went through the legislative process, but everything in DC has to go, go to Congress for review, gives members a Congress, a chance to weigh in and things went south when it got to Congress. Obviously there's a Republican house, an election coming up next year that's gonna be very consequential. So Republicans took the opportunity to make this an issue about Democrats being quote unquote soft on law and order on public safety on crime.

0 (3m 18s):
The

8 (3m 18s):
DC City Council wants to go even easier on criminals,

0 (3m 23s):
And this kind of turned into a much bigger debate than I think a lot of local DC lawmakers expected.

9 (3m 28s):
Even liberal Democrats in the nation's capitol have gone too far for President Biden. The president broke with the left wing of his party. He's standing by a G O P bill to block the DC City Council from changes in the city's crime code.

0 (3m 49s):
And before we get to this actual criminal code, which is, you know, the heart of this matter, just remind people in case they don't know why a DC crime bill would need to go to Congress for approval. Well, the District of Columbia is just that. It's a district, it's not a state. And until about 1975, it wasn't even a, a place that had its own mayor or its own locally elected lawmakers. So when it got those by virtue of Congress granting home rule, they included a little provision in there which says that anything the DC council or local legislature does still has to go to Congress for review. So basically they were saying, we're giving you the right to govern yourself, kinda, we're gonna let you govern yourself, but we're gonna get to govern if we feel like we need to step up and be the the responsible adults in the room.

0 (4m 36s):
Let's talk about this crime bill. You said the previous crime bill or the, I guess the current crime bill was old. How old is it? Yeah, so the, the criminal code, like I said, that's all of the criminal laws on the books date back to 1901. That's, and it was congress that wrote these, these criminal laws,

10 (4m 52s):
It shall not be lawful for any person or persons to play the game of football or any other game with a ball in any of the streets, avenues or alleys in the city of Washington.

0 (5m 3s):
And they've been updated in a piecemeal fashion since then. So they've kind of tweeted certain things, you know, they've enhanced or increased penalties for certain offenses as as they needed to. But a lot of the definitions and terms and offenses that were written back in 1901 are still on the books in the district.

10 (5m 19s):
Nor shall it be lawful for any person or persons to play the game of Bandy Shindi or any other game by which a ball stone or other substance is struck or propelled by any stick cane or other substance in any street, avenue or alley in the city of Washington under a penalty of not more than $5 for each and every such offense.

0 (5m 42s):
And what was the proposed overhaul? What exactly was the DC City council proposing here? So the city council proposed, and it was actually, it wasn't even the city council about 15 years ago. They started this process. They created a specific commission to, to start to do that process. And they worked over the last six years actually going through every line of the code of the criminal code and rewriting terms, coming up with new sentences, all that sort of jazz. That is the sort of thing that only a very committed, nerdy lawyer would ever want to do. Hmm. So they did that for six years. They produced what was, what ended up being about a 400 page bill with all these changes included. That's what they submitted in late 2021 to the DC council. The DC Council considered it, made a couple changes and voted on that late last year

11 (6m 24s):
By a unanimous vote, the DC Council passed the district's first overhaul of the criminal code in more than 100 years. The committee chair calling it monumental and is

9 (6m 34s):
The product of countless meetings, hard collaboration and compromise and thoughtful engagement by a wide range of stakeholders, all of which might disagree with a particular element to the total package, but unanimously recommended moving it forward nonetheless.

0 (6m 46s):
Okay. And and was any of it controversial late last year? And if so, which parts of it were controversial? A again, it's a massive project, 450 pages worth of legislation, just thousands of words being changed. So there's a lot of things going on, but pretty much everybody involved, which include prosecutors, public defenders, criminal justice reform, advocates, lawmakers, they said they agreed on 95% of what was in there. Again, this was stuff like you're removing references to steamboats and livestock and offenses that just make no sense anymore because like no one is lighting a bonfire kind of in an open field in the district. It just doesn't happen anymore. So why do you, why do you need to outlaw it? So there was lots of agreement on those sorts of things.

0 (7m 26s):
The 5%, that was where there was disagreement, there was significant disagreement and this was stuff like this big bill would've reduced certain maximum penalties for some violent offenses. So say carjacking, which is in the news nowadays, has a 40 year max sentence under current law. But they were gonna lower that to 24 years. And this kind of went on for a variety of different offenses. And the logic was, well, even though it says 40 years on paper, judges never hand out 40 year sentences. They usually hand out much less than that. Let's match what's on paper with what's happening in practice. There's another provision that would've reinstated the right to a jury trial for folks arrested for misdemeanors since the mid 1990s. If you got arrested for a misdemeanor, that would've gotten you less than six months in jail.

0 (8m 8s):
You didn't have the right to a jury trial, you just got a judge. This new bill would've reinstated that

11 (8m 12s):
The chief jojo, the superior court, sent in a letter to the mayor in order to provide enough jurors for a projected 210 additional jury trials. The courts will have to summon 70,750 more jurors each year.

0 (8m 26s):
And then there was a third provision that was controversial, which would've eliminated all mandatory minimum sentences for everything but first degree murder. So every other mandatory minimum would be tossed

11 (8m 35s):
Today on News four. Midday police Chief Robert Conti said while he supports some aspects of the legislation, he's against decreased penalties for gun crimes.

12 (8m 44s):
Anytime you talk about reducing penalties, the consequence that is associated with crimes that are particularly impactful to community members, I think that that is just a, a

0 (8m 57s):
Non-starter. And then the last thing that was controversial was a provision that would've allowed anybody who was in prison for 20 years could, would, would gain the right to ask a judge to basically reduce their sentence. At that point it was kind of like, you know, asking a judge to review every se every person's sentence after 20 years in prison. So you say 95% of this new criminal code overhaul isn't controversial. Do the city council and the mayor and whomever else come to agreement on the 5% you're calling Controversial? No. And that's one of the issues that kind of led to Congress getting involved. So the council approved this bill on two separate votes unanimously, but when it went to the mayor, she had raised concerns about this reduction of penalties for, for certain offenses and also concerns about reinstating the right to a jury trial cuz she said it would overwhelm the courts.

13 (9m 45s):
What this law would suggest is that the number of trials would, would skyrocket. And so we have, we have concerns about all of that.

0 (9m 53s):
So she specifically said, I really hate these provisions. I don't think they're workable. I think they're gonna be worse for public safety in the city.

13 (9m 60s):
You're experiencing more robberies and carjackings and people using guns. And I think the message about accountability for those crimes has to be abundantly clear.

0 (10m 10s):
So she vetoed the bill Now the council came back a couple weeks later and overrode her, which is normal legislative process. You know, the executives can veto and legislative bodies can override the vetoes. And that was it. And the measure was then sent to Congress for the Congressional Review period we talked about earlier. And that started off the kind of what we've seen recently in the news with both the House of Representatives and the Senate getting a chance to weigh in on this bill. Right, exactly. So tell us what happens once this bill gets to Congress, so gets to Congress and they immediately start taking wax at it because they start calling it soft on crime. They say that the DC Council is being quote unquote radical in minimizing these, these maximum sentences Republicans are saying just sends the wrong message.

0 (10m 50s):
There's no way they should be doing this. The radical

14 (10m 53s):
DC Council has chosen to prioritize legislation that will turn this crime crisis into a catastrophe.

0 (10m 59s):
So when Republicans are sort of coming down on DC for being soft on crime, do house Democrats support the Republicans or do they support DC or does it split the caucus or what? Well, it split the caucus in the house. I mean, 31 Democrats voted with Republicans. So the House bill that would've, that was gonna block the, the district's revised criminal code passed with a significant majority. I mean, and again, bipartisanship is not a word you hear thrown around often on Capitol Hill these days. And this was one thing that was bipartisan. Hmm. So I think that's sent up some alarm bells amongst both local city officials and then Democrats in the Senate. Now the whole time, this is being volleyed sort of back and forth in Congress, there's this looming threat that Biden might step in and for the first time in his presidency, exercise his veto.

0 (11m 46s):
But then to everyone's surprise last week, that's not how this plays out.

15 (11m 49s):
The president supports DC statehood. He's been clear about that, but he's not going to veto this bill from Congress, which does amount to Congress sort of meddling DC's own governance. Right. So how do you square that circle? Both things can't be true. No,

16 (12m 7s):
We believe both things can be true. Look, right now, DC is not a state. This is coming to the President, right? This is something that's coming to his desk and he has to take action.

0 (12m 17s):
How does Biden's announcement that he's not gonna veto Congress here, go over in dc, go over amongst Democrats? Well amongst Democrats on the hill, lots of them were not happy that some Democrats in the house said, listen, we voted the way we voted supporting the district because we assumed that Joe Biden was the backstop. He was the guy who was gonna come and he was gonna veto any bill and he was gonna put an end to this nonsense. You know, Biden says he's not gonna do that. Leaves these Democrats exposed and also Biden's decision opened more Democrats up in the Senate. It gave them the opportunity to come out against the district and make their own statements about being, you know, strong on crime and they want to be, you know, they don't want to be seen as soft on crime. Now locally in the district, this was huge because again, one thing that district officials, they could disagree on lots of things.

0 (13m 1s):
The one thing they generally agree on is that they should be allowed to decide their own affairs. They should be able to govern for themselves. So members of the DC Council, the mayor, they disagree on lots of policy issues. But when it comes on the basic issue of who should make those decisions, they agree it should be us as DC elected officials.

13 (13m 17s):
Unfortunately we live with the indignity of limited home rule in the District of Columbia where tax paying Americans were in the shadow of the Capitol. But we don't have two senators, we don't have a vote.

0 (13m 29s):
When President Biden made his announcement, there's a lot of angry Democrats, local, local folks in DC

17 (13m 35s):
I am totally against our Congress blocking anything that our elected officials

0 (13m 38s):
Are doing. And then there was other folks on the other side who said, listen, this was fundamentally a strategic error by the DC Council to pass a bill and then send it up to Capitol Hill. As Republicans are taking over the house, this isn't technically an election year, but election cycles never end in in, in our new age of politics. And so 2024 is coming up. And so members of the Senate who are up for reelection have to think about these things. President Biden himself has to think about these things. So there was a lot of dissension internally and the fact that Mayor Bowser and the DC Council had disagreed on provisions also created friction. So disagreements all over the place here. Hmm. A pretty tumultuous few weeks for the District of Columbia. Yeah, I mean this is a sort of drama we haven't seen in a long time.

0 (14m 20s):
Like I said, there hasn't been a disapproval resolution that's cleared Congress in three decades. You know, there's usually a lot of noise from Republicans on the hill when they dislike things that are that DC is doing, which is often cuz DC is a democratic city. But for it to get this far and for Democrats and Republicans to be united on this issue against the district is is virtually unheard of. Congress is daddy DC is baby more with Martin in a minute on today. Explain.

19 (14m 52s):
I'm your daddy. I'm your daddy, I'm your daddy, I'm

1 (14m 54s):
Your daddy, I'm your daddy.

Coda.io (14m 57s):
Support for today's show comes from Koda. Koda wants to know if you've ever been in the zone before. So this is the thing that athletes talk about, musicians talk about, journalists talk about it to some degree. It's when you are able to block out all distractions and just focus on the task at hand. It happens once every couple of weeks and it generally only happens if everything is in the right place. Koda is a doc that can help your team get to the right place because teams can work on entire projects in Koda from start to finish. It puts data in one location regardless of format. Eliminating roadblocks that can stop your team from getting things done. If you think about the way your team works right now, it is very difficult to accomplish things if all of the work is spread out across different documents, spreadsheets, a stack of workflow tools. That's why Coda may be able to help you get the work done better. If you're ready to join what they're calling the Efficiency Revolution with Coda, you can get started today for free at coda.io/explained that coda.io and get started for F R E E Coda io slash explained

1 (16m 5s):
Support

20 (16m 5s):
For the show comes from into the mix. A Ben and Jerry's podcast about joy and justice produced with Vox Creative. Last August, Florida's office of Election Crimes and Security charged some people with voter fraud. It turned out many of them were people with felony convictions who thought they could vote legally after voters passed Amendment four in Florida in 2018. Look that up. Still. Warrants went out for their arrests this episode of In two, the Mix. Season two is about Desmond Mead. He's a man who went to prison and then earned a law degree and started advocating for voting rights and criminal justice reform in Florida where he's from. He's now the executive director of the Florida Rights Restoration Coalition, which does exactly what you might think Ashley C.

20 (16m 49s):
Ford has that story on into the mix. Season two is out now

0 (17m 5s):
Today explained we are back, Martin, for all of those who listen to our show and don't live in DC like, like you and I do, can you just remind people how DC's government works in concert with the federal government? Yeah, it's one of those very confusing things in the sense that nowhere else in the countries like dc first of all, DC like most people know is not a state. And DC only got its own mayor and elected city council Back in, in the mid 1970s

21 (17m 32s):
As a senator, president Richard Nixon boasted that he supported DC home rule when he was elected president some decades later, he took action and signed the DC Home Rule Act into law.

0 (17m 45s):
It's pretty limited home rule. It's not like here govern yourselves and we'll just step out of of the way sort of thing. It's everything that DC does can be checked by Congress, essentially. Congress is the ultimate check and balance on the district local affairs. So any bill that clears the DC Council goes to congress. Congress gets a chance to weigh in. Congress has the power to basically tell the district it can't do certain things by putting provisions in the federal budget that say DC cannot spend money on needle exchange programs. It can't spend money to legalize the sale of recreational marijuana. It can't spend money subsidizing abortion for low income women. And those are all things that that Congress has done to DC and is currently doing to dc. So again, it's a very kind of fraught relationship because it's, you know, DC did get the chance to govern itself with adult supervision.

0 (18m 28s):
I think the marijuana example you quickly alluded to there is, is one of maybe the most illustrative of all of them because I think a lot of people across this country now have now had the experience of having marijuana legalized for either recreational or medicinal use at the state level, while it's illegal at the federal level. But in DC it's a much murkier situation. Could you explain it to people who aren't familiar? So back in 2014, DC voters approved a ballot initiative that legalized the possession, home cultivation, personal use and gifting of small amounts of marijuana. So everything but sales, which is to say that if you go into a marijuana dispensary in DC you don't buy marijuana, you give them like $20 for a painting or a bracelet and they give you some marijuana along with said painting or bracelet as a gift.

0 (19m 23s):
Yeah, it's a very confusing, convoluted and completely congressionally made reality because after DC voters approved this ballot initiative, Congress came back, congressional Republicans came back and said, well listen, that's great and good, but you're not doing anything when it comes to recreational sales. So they put a, what's called the budget rider. So essentially a prohibition on the city saying you can't legalize recreational sales. And that's, that was in 2015 and it still exists today. And so we have this market where literally dozens of stores across the city you can go in, like you said, you can pay 50, 60 bucks for a sticker or a cookie and you get your gift of marijuana. But like, let's be honest, we all kind of understand what's happening. You're buying marijuana.

0 (20m 3s):
But all the while city officials have said, we want to legalize recreational sales cuz then we can tax it, we can regulate it, we can, you know, take in potentially large sums of revenue from it. But Congress has, has still said no. And of course there's a very active movement in the District of Columbia to change this status quo. It ebbs and flows. There's times where people say, listen, the ultimate fight is statehood and that's what we have to go for. And then there's moments where they say, statehood is never gonna happen. Let's go for something else. Let's try for, let's say like a full voting representative in the House of Representatives. Cuz right now it's just a non-voting delegate. Nothing has moved particularly far. And it was only about eight years ago that the fight for statehood became the kind of the main goal, the the driving goal for, for city officials.

0 (20m 51s):
And it, it actually got relatively far, I mean the House of Representatives when it was controlled by Democrats voted twice on a bill that would've made DC the 51st state

22 (21m 0s):
Today by passing HR 51 to omit the state of Washington, Douglas Commonwealth to the union, the house will finally address this unjust, unequal, and undemocratic situation.

0 (21m 13s):
Now the Senate has never done the same because of the filibuster basically. And so the city has been stuck without statehood still, but it has made progress in kind of like making the issue more of a national issue and tying it to voting rights and saying, listen, if you believe in expanding voting access, expanding voting rights, you should also believe in statehood. And when Biden came out last week and said he wasn't gonna support this crime bill, he wasn't gonna use his veto. His statement was, and I'm reading here, I support DC's statehood and home rule, but I don't support some of the changes DC City Council put forward over the mayor's objections such as lowering penalties for carjacking, which a bookstore DC retweeted saying, look folks, I fully support the Rebel Alliance, but construction of the Death star must proceed on schedule.

0 (22m 5s):
How complicated is Biden's support of DC's statehood made by his actions in the past week? It's gotten a lot of people confused because obviously they appreciate that President Biden's support statehood has said he supports statehood. And last year he made, you know, he tied the issue of statehood to his broader fight for voting rights, for access to the ballot and that sort of stuff. But now he was effectively trying to please no one apparently by saying, I support statehood and I support the district's right to govern itself except in this one case where I really don't support the district's right to govern itself. And this is why I am gonna, I I'm not gonna step into this fight that Congress is having with dc. So yeah, at best it's confusing, you know, at worst it's gotten a lot of people pretty pissed.

0 (22m 46s):
What are the biggest barriers to DC achieving its sort of perpetual goal of, of being a state? I mean, depends who you ask. I mean, there's folks that just say, well listen, it's a city full of Democrats, which means it's, it's gonna gain two senators that are gonna be Democrats, which means it's gonna benefit Democrats in the Senate. So there's a very partisan angle to it. There's also folks who could raise lesser concerns. Stuff like DC's just geographically not big enough. And yes, it would be the smallest state by geography though it would have more people than Vermont or Wyoming. Some Republican senators have raised concerns including that there's not enough minors and loggers in dc

23 (23m 21s):
Yes, Wyoming is smaller than Washington by population, but it has three times as many workers in mining, logging and construction and 10 times as many workers in manufacturing. But what vital industries would the new state of Washington represent? Lobbying bureaucracy?

0 (23m 37s):
You know, there are some the constitutional concerns where they say the founders wanted a place for the federal government that was insulated from the states where Marylanders and, and Virginians couldn't like storm the capitol. Ironically, you know, when January 6th happened, it was DC's police officers that helped clear the capitol. But that's, you know, that notwithstanding this idea that DC has to exist in this kind of neutral territory. And so thus DC could never be a state cuz then it's no longer neutral. And then the federal government is at the risk of being at the whims of just the district. But meanwhile you've got Biden saying he supports statehood. I think he had Trump at CPAC this weekend saying the federal government should

24 (24m 12s):
Take over control and management of Washington DC

0 (24m 16s):
And you got 700,000 people caught in the middle without much of a right to self-govern. I don't know that anybody could have foreseen this exact series of events happening the way it did. There was always an assumption that, okay, fine, this criminal, the code bill will go to the hill, Republicans will vote to, to disapprove it, but we've got the Senate that's run by Democrats. And then that fell. Well fine, we've got Biden, he's the ultimate backs up. There's no way that President Biden is supporter of statehood, wouldn't veto this. And then pri President Biden says, no, I'm not gonna veto this. You know, there is some collective anger about the si the, the situation the district has always found itself in and continues to find itself in. But there's also some finger pointing internally of was this a strategic mistake by us? Was this just the wrong time to debate criminal justice reform in reforming criminal laws?

0 (24m 59s):
Shouldn't we just wait till Democrats at least have maybe retaken the house so we can at least have that as a backstop? So there's, there's a lot of layers to this. It's complicated. And in the meantime we have a joke on our license plate end taxation without representation. I mean at least yeah, at least you've got that. You got the license plate could, to be fair, I liked it more when it just said taxation without representation. It felt sort of self-deprecating. Now it feels just like this hopeless slogan that's never gonna do anything. But that being said, the district is rolling out a new license plate this year. It's gonna come out soon. It's gonna say we demand statehood. So Wow. I know there's that, the joke is over. I mean, it's not okay, you don't get a g a new criminal code, but you, you, you get a license plate that says we demand statehood.

0 (25m 42s):
So there you go. Martin Oster Mule reporter and editor at W A M U 85 in Washington DC Our program today was produced by Today Explains Philadelphia Bureau, chief Miles Brian. It was edited by Washington's own Amina aad fact checked by North Carolina's, Laura Bullard and mixed by the king of New York, Paul Robert Mosey.

BalanceUS (26m 40s):
The Coca-Cola company, Keurig, Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold contain zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more.

26 (26m 57s):
Most of the time we talk about tech in terms of a handful of gigantic companies like Google, meta and Apple. But some of the most interesting stuff we find online is the product of a single Person. When you're working on your own, I think there's this beauty of being able to come up with an idea and then implement it. Then in that moment, you don't have to have permission from someone else. There's no red tape And the Vergecast series, solo acts will get to know these people, the tech they use to get stuff done and the obstacles they face trying to compete with the giants. Some people that I talk to and my friends are like, no, your competitors are Zuckerberg and Musk like, aren't you kind of like afraid of that? Every Monday our friend Ashley Escada will be curating and hosting these interviews and sharing with us what she's learned.

26 (27m 38s):
I Can't believe the Mick McRib locator was originally a tornado locator. Right? Pretty wild. Listen to our solo acts miniseries now in the Verge Feed. Anywhere you find podcasts.