1 (4s):
It's Thursday, April 23rd 20/20. We've got a full showers in the District of Columbia. It's Ramadan. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained mosques are shut down across the world and Muslims are being urged to worship from home. But in Pakistan a bunch of prominent moms have urged the faithful to ignore stay-at-home orders in Germany Chancellor. Angela Merkel is urging the These Regional leaders to hold the line on stay-at-home orders. She told Parliament let us not squander what we have achieved except probably in German across Europe. And even in Canada governments are stepping in to at least partially pay the salaries of workers who have been laid off and for something different in the United States Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is encouraging states to take the Donald Trump approach and just declare bankruptcy.

1 (57s):
He told the conservative radio host. There's not going to be Any desire on the Republican side to bail out State pensions by borrowing money from future Generations Democrats, of course have been pushing pretty hard for more Aid to state governments in the pending stimulus package McConnell is now calling such Aid Blue State bailouts, New York Governor. Andrew Cuomo said McConnell's bankruptcy idea was quote one of the saddest really dumb comments of all time and pointed out the McConnell's home state of Kentucky gets more Federal money for Isis than it contributes while New York gives more than it gets Mitch McConnell is up for re-election in November researchers at Northeastern University have found that putting a nylon stocking over your homemade masks might help keep out the coronavirus evidently it'll boost your ability to filter out small particles in the air and if under that nylon and homemade mask your sporting Juggalo face, I have terrible news the Insane Clown Posse has canceled its annual.

1 (2m 0s):
Of the Juggalos for those of you who don't pay attention to clown hip-hop Juggalos are The Devout fans of the Faygo drinking Detroit Duo the Insane Clown Posse AKA ICP in the spirit of German Chancellor. Angela Merkel. ICP said the bottom line is simply that we refuse to risk even one Juggalo Life by hosting a gathering during these troubling times. We will endure this together as a family and the Gathering of the Juggalos. We'll return in 2021 stronger bigger and better than ever.

1 (3m 3s):
Whoops, I can't. Globally offices are closed and we're all practicing social distancing but one major way we're staying in touch with family friends and co-workers is through Zoom want to know more about the company and the leader behind the brand keeping us all connected. Then you have to subscribe to zero to IPO a podcast from OCTA long before we all started taking video calls from 9 to 5 0 to IPO interviewed Zoom founder Eric you on where he shared his journey and advice for new entrepreneurs in the space subscribe to Your IPO podcast to hear this episode and catch up on season 1 of 0 to IPO.

1 (3m 54s):
There are a lot of conspiracy theories circulating online about this novel coronavirus and we haven't yet spoken about any of them on the show because there's so much factual information that we want to help you guys understand but since so many people have been asking about these things and we see friends and and family members actually taking them seriously now, it felt like a good time to explain The coronavirus conspiracy theories and to help we have vaux's science editor Eliza Berkeley Eliza, you've written about these conspiracy theories a couple times now, right? Yeah, I wrote One Piece in early March where I talked about a couple of conspiracy theories floating around that we're pretty easy to rule out entirely, but after I wrote that piece, I got a lot of very intense emails and tweets some of them very angry some of them very A Trolli challenging my interpretation of them since I wrote the first piece in March is the president emailing and I know but I think some of his supporters and then others who just find some of these theories very tantalizing and how many you got.

1 (5m 7s):
Well, there are several at this stage some are minor and some are more powerful in terms of who we see Repeating them or using them as political tools. But I'd say there is about 6 1 I would actually classify not quite as a conspiracy theory, but more as a theory the other five we can probably classify as conspiracy theories. Okay, and these are all about the origins of the coronavirus, right? Yes. Okay. Well, let's go down the Spectrum starting with the least plausible. What do you got? So there are some people who actually don't want to believe that this is even A pandemic or a crisis as portrayed by the media this hearing the living hell out of people and I see it again is like oh what's bludgeoned Trump with this new Cokes.

1 (5m 60s):
So conspiracy theory number one, the entire pandemic is a hoax. Yes, or even the pandemic as highly deadly as a hoax. Okay, great. Let's move on then. Sorry pandemic is a hoax. Let's go to conspiracy theory number two. What's that one in the Couple weeks. It seems there's now tens of thousands of Facebook posts alleging that Bill Gates was involved with the origin of this virus the windows guy. Yes, that guy who is also happens to be the world's top donor to Global Health causes. Apparently the source of this is a 2015 speech where Bill Gates warned that if anything kills over 10 million people in the next few decades.

1 (6m 45s):
It's most likely to be a highly. Highly infectious virus rather than a war. We're not ready for the next epidemic. So they're mad at Bill Gates for like understanding the risks of a pandemic. Yeah, he's being called the creator of covid-19 and a profiteer from a potential virus vaccine. Does Bill Gates have the vaccine? Can we get it? Absolutely not. I'm sure he's funding vaccine efforts, but I think if he had the vaccine, he would be very happy to give it to the world. Okay. So let's give Bill some credit. He didn't create. This pandemic to profit off of vaccine. He's already quite Rich.

1 (7m 24s):
What's conspiracy theory? Number? Three Eliza conspiracy theory number three as that, there is a direct link between 5G wireless networks and the covid-19 illness some people in the UK bought into it so much. They started lighting cell phone towers on fire 5z burning burning burning burning burning. Hey, Elgin doctor earlier this year claimed that there was a possible link between 5 G and coronavirus and that then people kind of ran with that. The theory is that 5j damages the human immune system fudgy get switched on people drop like flies.

1 (8m 7s):
Of course, that's not true. There is no evidence showing that what did this is really a conspiracy to keep everyone satisfied with their 4G Networks. You know people push these these conspiracy theories for all kinds of reasons so I could be one. Okay, so we're gonna leave 5G there. It sounds like there's like maybe one or two doctors who believe it but a lot who don't and there's also the fact that the coronavirus is spreading in countries that do not have 5G. Let's continue onward. What's what's the fourth conspiracy theory? So this one I think had a little bit more life earlier on.

1 (8m 48s):
Mine and it is that the virus was created in a lab and interestingly scientists around the world have been sequencing the viruses genome as they do with pathogens like this and what they can see when they sequence a genome is that this virus is very clearly evolved in nature scientists who have published peer-reviewed papers on this is a conclusive. Lovely, that's ours. Covey to virus is not a laboratory construct an or purposefully manipulated virus. It's so different actually from all the other viruses out there that it only could have been invented by Nature as one virologist said, you know humans could not have dreamed this up this Pirates up and so I think we can be very confident that this virus was not bioengineered for those reasons.

1 (9m 46s):
What's conspiracy number 5 so connected to this previous theory is the conspiracy theory that the virus was a bio weapon intentionally released by China on the World to kill people cause harm disrupt the global order. You know, I had one person who believes this Theory contact me to say, you know, maybe China wasn't trying to kill a lot of people but they are just trying to cause a lot of disruption so that they can merge as the world's top superpower put the United States and other countries on their knees. First of all, there's no evidence this advice Iris existed before it started infecting people.

1 (10m 28s):
So there's no evidence that China had isolated in the lab. So it seems pretty much on pot and possible that it was intentionally released by China. Okay, so conspiracy theory number five doesn't work for basically the same reasons as conspiracy number for correct. So does that bring us? Conspiracy number six the one you think that has the most credibility. Well, here's how I would put I would say it actually doesn't have a lot of credibility but it's the one that we cannot a hundred percent rule out. There have been reports us diplomats are concerned about a lab in Wuhan China the city where the outbreak began.

1 (11m 10s):
So this is the theory that also I would say is politically the most important one at the moment. Moment in that it's being discussed by President Trump by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. No strangers to conspiracy theories to be fair right to be fair. Yes more and more. We're hearing the story. We are doing a very thorough examination of this horrible situation and then we know they have this lab we know about the wet markets. We know that the virus itself did originate in Wuhan so all those things come together and this is the theory that okay the virus Maybe wasn't engineered nor intentionally releases a bio weapon, but that it was accidentally released from the Wuhan Institute of virology.

1 (11m 58s):
One of the interesting facts of the outbreak. Is that the same city where the virus first appeared also happens to be the city where China has its only bsl-4 lab where scientists? Let's do work on these very dangerous viruses. And so a lot of people right off the bat started wondering. Wow, what if this virus was being studied in that lab and and what if it was either intentionally or accidentally released we see intelligence officials and we see other government officials saying that they have not entirely ruled this out in their investigation of the virus origin and indeed all the scientists.

1 (12m 44s):
I've spoken to say they also Cannot a hundred percent rule this out. But they point to a lot of other evidence that really makes the case for why this is a very unlikely event more with Eliza after a

3 (13m 4s):
break.

1 (13m 22s):
Support for the show today comes from better help if your friends are checking their phones while you're having zooms with them and telling them about your problems and you start to get a little frustrated by it might want to try better help they offer online licensed professional counselors who want to help you out whether you're struggling with stress anxiety isolation depression, whatever it is. They want to make you feel a little less alone. You connect with your counselor and safe and private online environment and ending. Share is confidential to get started simply fill out a questionnaire to help assess your needs and get matched with a counselor in less than 24 hours. After that. You can easily schedule secure video or phone sessions with your therapist plus exchange unlimited messages.

1 (14m 4s):
I mean, depending on your your service and your provider what not better help is an affordable option in right now listeners get 10% off your first month with the discount code explained better help.com explain that's better heelp.com explained You might be curious about how Zoom the video conferencing app that keeps us connected to friends family and co-workers came to be after all while we're all home. It's been helping our work flow smoothly in our loved ones feel nearby even while we're sheltered in place. If you want to know more than listen to the zero to IPO podcast their upcoming season 2 premiere features an interview with zoom founder Eric you on where he shares his journey and advice for new entrepreneurs subscribe to 0-2 IPO podcast to hear this episode and catch up.

1 (14m 53s):
season 1 of 0 to IPO Okay, Iliza. We've been through the six conspiracy theories. You said only one of them even is remotely possible. And that is the final one we talked about which is that this novel coronavirus may have accidentally escaped from a virology lab in Wuhan China through a person who worked in the lab. How does that theory contradict the other one that we've spoken about on the show before that this probably originated with a live animal a bat or something of that sort. Yeah, so scientists who? Study coronavirus has and also other emerging infectious diseases like H1N1 and Ebola.

1 (15m 39s):
They have said from the beginning as soon as the sequence of the Genome of this new virus was available is very clear that this virus shares a genome with other known bat viruses. And so for that reason, it's is just very clearly a virus that that originated in bats. Now what we don't know still is when exactly this virus might have made the leap from bats to humans. We also don't know if there was potentially an intermediary species. So in other coronavirus has like MERS which emerged in the Middle East or SARS one, which emerged in China in 2003 several sizes believe that there were in fact in terms.

1 (16m 31s):
Gary host says are called with MERS. The virus may have originated in bats, but then infected camels which then infected humans in SARS won the 2003 SARS. It's believed that the virus originated bats and then may have infected civet cats which then infected humans. Although there's not even total certainty on that. So with this virus It's very clear that it did begin in bats and the bat that had this virus or the group of that bats that had this virus may have directly infected humans or there may have also been an intermediary species that that hasn't yet been identified.

1 (17m 12s):
There's been a little bit of talk of pangolins as an intermediary species, but we're not really sure and I'm looking up pangolins here and it looks like it's scaly anteater. Yes learn something every day. So it looks very much like bats are the origin here. Either way. Where does that leave us with this finding its way to a human in a lab in Wuhan the Wuhan Institute of Neurology researchers did have some samples of viruses that were circulating and bats what we know from a really excellent story in Scientific American is that the leader of the bat coronavirus research group a researcher named she jokingly Who by the way is well-known by in an international scientific circles, as soon as she heard about the new coronavirus circulating in Wuhan, she was in Shanghai and she got on a train back to Wuhan immediately to sequence the virus and figure out did it match any of the viruses that they already had in the lab because yes, she also considered the possibility.

1 (18m 21s):
What if this new virus is one of the ones we were studying and she says and she Also been backed up by others at the Wuhan Institute of Neurology that know the new coronavirus does not match any of the viruses that they were studying one of the things that the scientists I've interviewed point to immediately when other people are hypothesizing about the lab league is that let's look at what we do know about how frequently bats and humans in Southeast. Asia are interacting. There are hundreds of millions of bats in Southeast Asia and scientists have found that 10% of bats and some colonies have have viruses.

1 (19m 9s):
So that's hundreds of thousands of bats with viruses and meanwhile, you've got tens of thousands of humans in the wildlife trade who are hunting and killing wildlife in China and other countries in Southeast Asia and people are interacting with bats and all kinds of different ways there hunting them. They're eating them. Sometimes they use their poop for fertilizer. They're going into their caves like for fun. They're just a ton of different ways in which that's in humans are around each other and it's actually I think this is the thing that's a little bit hard for us in the US perhaps to wrap our heads around, you know, we have bats too, but we don't have nearly as many bats and we're not really up in bats kind of habitat.

1 (19m 57s):
As much but when that's come into contact with humans and if the virus is able to replicate and say alive and humans and it's great for the for the virus. And by the way, you know, of course other mammals other insects can also host viruses but bats are unusual and that their reservoir for so many viruses and many of which we haven't even discovered yet, but we know they're out there. We know the vaccine is still a year. If not more away not you know notwithstanding some sort of Miracle.

1 (20m 37s):
When will we know what the full truth is here as to the origins of this coronavirus. It's a great question finding patient. Zeros can be very time consuming. It can be very difficult to trace. A virus back to the very first person who got infected and even then the potential spillover event. So how that first person who was infected by a bat or by an intermediary species was infected. It may not be clear. Like it may not be so clear cut as this person ate a bat.

1 (21m 18s):
I mean, of course, there's a lot of talk about way maybe it emerged in this Wildlife Market, but maybe it didn't and maybe somebody was infected completely unknown. Like so there's so many possibilities in terms of that spillover event. I think that we can assume that that investigation is happening in China, but we have no idea how long it'll take nor whether we will ever get total Clarity on where did this all begin? That being said? I mean as you mentioned there are scientists who are thinking about who are talking about who are trying to figure out where this came from. Why is it important to And where this novel coronavirus originated.

1 (22m 2s):
Well, I think to understand what types of interactions between bats and humans are most risky or humans and intermediaries because I mean think we already know that these wet markets these Wildlife markets that are all over China and in a lot of other countries in Southeast Asia are risky because people are eating Wildlife like bats. And that's not very common but it still goes on and these bats carry viruses. So if we were to learn for instance that indeed if the market was involved or that some other practice some other habit of you know, using bat feces on a farm that that was how this emerge we would be able to Clearly say, okay, that's a high-risk activity.

1 (22m 49s):
We should stop doing that or was you need to adjust so it is about minimizing risk in the future if you can figure out where this came from you can potentially prevent the next spillover event Eliza Berkeley is vaux's science editor, but she right sometimes to her article on why scientists doubt the novel coronavirus escaped from a Chinese lab dropped today at vox.com. Some of the conspiracies we talked about on the show today are pretty one-dimensional but not so for the theory that all of this is caused by 5G as Eliza mentioned. It's a pretty weak Theory but people are acting on this one.

1 (23m 32s):
They're burning down cell towers and that has serious implications are friends. Over at the reset podcast covered the 5G conspiracy theory in much more detail on Tuesday. So why don't you do a double feature and go listen to that right now. Thanks. Stay Smart. Check your sources. Take care.