3 (2s):
Support for the show today comes from who we are a Chronicle of racism in America that podcast. I've been telling you guys about from the people over at Ben & Jerry's it's hosted by Peabody award-winning journalist Carvel Wallace and ACLU legal director Jeffrey Robinson. It's based on a presentation that Jeffrey Robinson once gave of the same name and that name again is who we are new episodes Tuesdays wherever you listen. Never has a story been more surprising and predictable at the same time than this one because when a guy who mocks masks and doesn't social distance keeps traveling across the country with the highest case count in the world.

3 (46s):
It's only a matter of time before he tests positive for the coronavirus very early this morning President Donald Trump revealed his time to test positive had finally come. Aaron rupe are Cover the president for Vox. Do we have any idea which of the many unsafe things? He's been doing led to Trump's testing positive. Well at this stage is a little bit speculative just in that we can't be totally sure with the chain of transmission was but what it's looking like is that the spread may be linked to this trip that hope Hicks who is a top White House aide took with The president and a number of other White House officials including Stephen Miller and Jared Kushner on Wednesday.

3 (1m 38s):
The chain of events here is kind of a lost rative of how you know some of the shortcomings with coronavirus testing because apparently what happened here is Hope Hicks on Wednesday morning took a test for covid which is something that regularly happens for White House officials and on Wednesday morning. She tested negative for the virus so that day A photograph of her boarding Marine one one of the White House helicopters for a trip to Minnesota where Trump delivered a campaign speech in Duluth apparently towards the end of the evening during Trump speech. Hope Hicks began to feel ill and when hope Hicks took a test that evening for the coronavirus she tested positive and we also just don't know if the president was infected through.

3 (2m 28s):
Hope Hicks or Someone else because he has seen so many people right? That's exactly right. And you know, that's the other thing that is worth keeping in mind is that you know, we're still in a state of affairs here in the United States where you know, there are 30,000 to 40,000 new cases a day when you have that much virus circulating contact tracing becomes more difficult because there can be different chains of spread. So we just can't know for sure at this point. The chain of transmission was but again given what we know surrounding whole picks and given that we know that she traveled, you know on a helicopter and on an airplane with the number of White House officials including Trump on Wednesday.

3 (3m 15s):
It seems pretty reasonable to assume you know, that she was the vector that ended up spreading it to the president

1 (3m 23s):
ladies and gentlemen, the 45th president of the United States. Well, let's just talk about what the president's been up to. Let's say for the past week so we can try and figure

3 (3m 36s):
out when this may have happened and then perhaps to whom he may have spread this Where Do We Begin? So I think a good place to begin is last weekend. We're both on Friday and Saturday Trump held campaign rallies on Friday night in Newport News, Virginia on Saturday in Middletown, Pennsylvania. And of course as we've drawn nearer to election day Trump has basically resumed a normal campaign schedule with almost every night having campaign rallies with thousands of people there

1 (4m 10s):
the Commonwealth of Virginia with the thousands of loyal. Hard-working American Patriots and at these rallies Trump has

3 (4m 19s):
regularly spread misinformation about the coronavirus.

1 (4m 23s):
You know, they were Shadow Europe is doing better. Actually we did better. He's downplayed things telling people that well crush the virus and the end of this pandemic is right around the corner

3 (4m 32s):
that you know vaccines will be available within weeks that will kind of make this whole thing go away,

1 (4m 37s):
but we've done a great job with the FDA and clearing a path and you'll be seeing it very shortly and these are great. Come now, it already feels like it was a month ago,

3 (4m 46s):
but wasn't Saturday also the day that Trump announced that he was nominating a me koni Barrett for the Supreme Court and she was there at the White House with him with her entire family ladies and gentlemen, the president of the United States and mrs. Trump accompanied by judge a me koni, Barrett and family. I'm looking at a photo right now from that event where yeah, they're standing right next to each other. They're definitely you know, not not social distancing her entire family is walking behind them. They had a Rose Garden events, you know where dozens if not over a hundred people were in the crowd some of whom were wearing masks, but some weren't I want to thank the members of the Senate we have so many of them here today.

3 (5m 33s):
Thank you very much. I see you in the audience and you said video has circulated on Friday after the ceremony of Mike Lee senator from Utah hugging other people and Mike Lee. Is one of the attendees at that event who has now tested positive for Coronavirus along with Notre Dame President, John Jenkins, who is there without a mask shaking hands thankfully Judge Amy Comey. Barrett does not have it but it does seem like this event was a vector for the virus.

1 (6m 2s):
So thank you very much for being here. Thank you all thank you very much. Thank you. Congratulations and And then we kind of go from there through the rest of the week. We're on

3 (6m 15s):
Monday Trump had an event at the White House about coronavirus testing in a moment. That looks kind of ominous and hindsight at one point Trump turned to Admiral Brett gerar who is the White House coronavirus testings are and said to him.

1 (6m 30s):
Good luck. Hope you don't just post it. Then Tuesday, of course brought us to the presidential debate wasn't shot down. You'll have begun to

3 (6m 40s):
increasingly questioned the effectiveness of masks as a disease preventer. And in fact, we know the events surrounding the debate are raising a lot of questions as well because Trump was on stage with Joe Biden tonight as an example. Everybody's had a test and you've had social distancing and all of the things that you have to

1 (7m 0s):
but I wear masks when

3 (7m 2s):
needed why they were A good distance away from each other. But of course, it was a very animated discussion. I don't wear masks like him every time you see him. He's got a mess. He could be speaking 200 feet away from it. He shows up with a biggest mask I've ever seen

1 (7m 16s):
it's not beyond the realm of possibility that

3 (7m 18s):
there could have been some sort of virus transmission there again, we don't know if at that point that was pre exposure for Trump, you know, the Biden campaign has said they are testing everybody who traveled with Joe Biden to the debate we decide that's the end of this. This is the end. As this

1 (7m 33s):
debate is valid count. We're going to leave it

3 (7m 36s):
there. Okay, and that brings us to Wednesday, which is the day where we think President Trump may have encountered the virus from Hope Hicks potentially on his plane on his helicopter. What was he doing Wednesday? So Wednesday was a little bit of a quieter day during the day given the debate the night before which was in Cleveland Trump traveled back to DC. We don't know who all was on that flight. Of course, those people now will be part of the contact tracing that occurs, but Trump, you know that afternoon as he was preparing to go to Minnesota did a press availability one of the news conferences that he that he sometimes does then he got on the plane with hope Hicks with Jared Kushner with Stephen Miller and they all traveled to Minnesota for a flight that now seems like it may have been the vector for the spread that occurred to Trump and to First Lady Melania Trump, and we know the It shares the information that he's tested positive late Thursday night early Friday morning, depending where you are in this country.

3 (8m 40s):
But what did he do on Thursday Did He travel that he stay put what happened here. Is that Bloomberg's Jennifer Jacobs reported on Thursday evening that hope Hicks had coronavirus. This was not announced by the White House until a reporter reported. You know that she hadn't so that has raised a lot of questions about you did. Did Trump test positive before Thursday night Trump went up to bed Minster his private club up there for a fundraiser You know despite the fact that he knew that he had been exposed to the coronavirus the day before the New York Times reported that at this fundraiser in Bedminster.

3 (9m 21s):
He was feeling lethargic or he you know, he appeared to be lethargic according to someone who is there. So instead of kind of canceling all of his events and hunkering down and quarantining. He basically kept up. Says and had a normal day of campaigning and is Raising, you know, it has raised a lot of questions about you know, when exactly did Trump know that he had tested positive because another thing to mention is that on Thursday evening just hours before Trump announced on Twitter that he had tested positive. He called in to Sean Hannity.

1 (9m 53s):
She's a hard worker a lot of masks and she's wears masks a lot but she tested positive he

3 (9m 59s):
confirm that hope Hicks had tested positive and he basically Lee, you know he sounded kind of resigned to his fate but

1 (10m 6s):
it's very very hard when you are with people from the military or law enforcement and they come over to you and they want to hug you and they want to kiss you because we really have done a good job for him and you get close and things happen. I was surprised to

3 (10m 21s):
hear what I know. There's a lot of unknowns right now, but do we have any idea what happens next? The president is quarantine and he says yes, he announced along with his positive test that he is. Lee, you know he sounded kind of resigned to his fate but it's very very hard when you are with people from the military or law enforcement and they come over to you and they want to hug you and they want to kiss you because we really have done a good job for him and you get close and things happen. I was surprised to hear what I know. There's a lot of unknowns right now, but do we have any idea what happens next? The president is quarantine and he says yes, he announced along with his positive test that he is.