1 (0s):
There's a new virus in town. They're calling it coronavirus. People are dying. People are freaking out and vaux's Julia Blues has been covering it day and night but she still made time to explain to me. What exactly is going on this morning.

2 (16s):
So on December 31st China announced that they were dealing with an outbreak of what seemed like a mysterious new virus in a city called Wuhan and at the time Chinese authorities were suggesting that almost everyone affected by By the virus had come into contact with animals at a food market in Wuhan and as of last week, it looked like there were only about 50 cases of the disease. And now today there are more than 600 in the virus has spread across China and to at least five other countries. This virus isn't just spreading directly from people exposed to animals in a market. It's spreading from person to person and outbreak looks a lot more severe than it did just a week ago.

1 (60s):
What exactly Chloe is this thing.

2 (1m 1s):
So right now it has only a placeholder name 2019 and COV 2019 the year that it was discovered and for new and coronavirus for the family of viruses that it comes

1 (1m 14s):
from Corona like the beer just

2 (1m 16s):
like the beer. Yeah, exactly. No, their respiratory viruses, they mostly affect animals. And if you of them have evolved to infect humans including tsar's which as a Canadian you might

1 (1m 28s):
remember I was at sea. Our stock Julia so was I whoa? Because they love you and they love and they are two Canadians realize they were at the same

2 (1m 52s):
party. Yeah, I played hooky from work to go to that. But yeah, so these viruses mainly affect animals a few have evolved if infect humans. We know that they attacked the rest. Satori system, but the way that they sick and people can look like anything from the common cold to causing severe pneumonia and death like SARS did and we don't know yet where this new virus falls on that Spectrum. We don't know how deadly it is.

1 (2m 20s):
How many people has he killed so far

2 (2m 21s):
as of this morning, there are more than 600 cases in 17 people have

1 (2m 26s):
died. And how should we think about those numbers? How deadly is a virus if for every 600 infected 17?

2 (2m 34s):
I so it's way too early to figure out the case fatality which is the number of deaths of virus causes among the number of people affected because it's possible that there are thousands more people with this virus who don't have symptoms who have never gone to the doctor and therefore they're not counted as cases. So right now we have this 600 as the denominator, but it's likely to change drastically in the coming days and it's also possible that it could mutate to spread even more. More effectively than it's already spreading. So there's a lot of unknowns but we know for example that SARS killed about one in 10 of the people that it affected and then again, there are these other coronaviruses that act more like the common cold.

2 (3m 18s):
So it'll take a little bit of time to understand where this new one falls on that Spectrum.

1 (3m 23s):
Do we have any idea how the virus is spreading? We

2 (3m 26s):
don't know exactly how the virus is spreading yet, or how easy it is to catch but we know that human coronaviruses again the rest. For viruses so they're passed through the air through coughing and sneezing and you can also pick up these viruses through touching surfaces that have been

1 (3m 42s):
contaminated. You mentioned that this was discovered in China, but there were reports earlier this week that it made it to the United States where else is it right now?

2 (3m 51s):
So yeah, right right. Now we know that most of the cases are in Wuhan that that city were talking about at the beginning of 11 million on Mainland China, but since then cases have turned up in at least 30 other Fences in China and we also know that travelers to the u.s. Thailand Japan Taiwan and South Korea have also turned up with the virus and there are additional cases being investigated in other countries. So if you think about the fact that this outbreak was only declared on December 31st, and only a few weeks later. We have at least six countries affected and more than 600 cases. It's a pretty fast escalation.

1 (4m 30s):
So it's so much unknown. I mean, how is she China responding to this

2 (4m 35s):
have first the government was telling people to stop traveling in and out of Wuhan and then this morning they took this extraordinary measure of quarantining the entire city this morning the Chinese city of Wuhan on lockdown flights canceled trains halting. It's not just travel in and out of the city that's affected its everything with in Wuhan as

1 (4m 57s):
well as in Virtual lockdown, you're not allowed to enter any public space without a

2 (5m 3s):
mask. The city of 11 million people at the epicenter of a viral outbreak. So that's more people than live in New York City, for example, or an entire country like Greece. They just shut down travel within the city and travel out of the city. Wow, and by this evening in China, they extended the travel restrictions to to other cities. Just east of Wu Han Hong Kong and urge o with a combined population of eight and a half million are 70 kilometers away from Wuhan where 11 million residents have been

1 (5m 33s):
Told to stay put

2 (5m 35s):
so the response is escalating really fast as well. And part of that is driven by the fact that China is now undergoing the biggest annual human migration for Chinese New Year on Saturday. This Crackdown might also suggest that they know more than they're telling us that that maybe the virus is even more transmissible than it seems right now. Maybe it's in more places than we know. Maybe there are more cases but the public health people I talked to said that quarantining a city of 11 million and imposing trade restrictions on 20 million people in these three cities that that's totally unprecedented.

1 (6m 17s):
I wonder does China have an incentive to sort of slow play the severity of this disease or to conceal information from the

2 (6m 26s):
public. So we know that these types of outbreak declarations can come with devastating economic losses to the cities and countries involved. So that's always an incentive not to report and we also know that China has a history of not being very transparent about outbreaks which we learn during czars like they're they're delayed. Reporting of the outbreak to the International Community definitely let led to two more spread in more cases because countries didn't have a warning and they couldn't put in measures to contain the virus and stop it from spreading. So, you know, the more honest Chinese authorities are the more quickly the International Community can respond in the more effectively will be able to stop the outbreak.

2 (7m 11s):
So they also have an incentive to report honestly, and I'm not sure anybody knows. Exactly how honestly China is reporting right. Now.

1 (7m 21s):
You mentioned the International Community the global Health Community. I mean have outfits like the World Health Organization stepped in or stepped up to sort of help China with this

2 (7m 32s):
outbreak who yesterday convened a group of experts to deliberate about whether they should declare this virus a global Public Health Emergency. So that's this official designation that who can To outbreaks to sort of sound the global alarm to Galvanize attention and resources and to help the International Community coordinate in response to a disease that's spreading in a way that poses a real threat and they did this unprecedented thing yesterday, which was instead of declaring or not declaring which they usually do after a day of deliberations. They delayed their decision until today.

2 (8m 14s):
So today the who declared this was not a public health emergency yet, but this could change in the coming weeks or days. They might meet again very soon and and decide that it is.

1 (8m 27s):
Why would they delay that kind of decision? What's what's the decision making process for them?

2 (8m 33s):
They said they needed more information. But I suspect part of the reason might have been politics China is a very powerful country and maybe they're there, you know trying to wave Political repercussions of declaring this a public health emergency, but I on the other hand. It's also yeah again, we're dealing with this new virus. There are lots of unknowns. The situation is rapidly evolving. So maybe they genuinely wanted a few more hours to figure out whether they should declare this type of

1 (9m 7s):
emergency. So we know this still isn't a official Global Health Emergency yet. Is there a chance that this outbreak could still Spread even more

2 (9m 18s):
though. I think there's a good chance. Yeah, we're seeing the number of cases increasing. So rapidly last week there are there were only about 50 cases. The China was reporting today. We have more than 600 that's a pretty rapid spread of this virus. So it's very possible. It continues on that trajectory, but that'll depend on what we learn about the virus and yeah most importantly how easily it spreading from person to person and How deadly it is?

1 (9m 53s):
More with Julia in a minute. I'm Shawn promise from this is today explained. You know, the thing about deodorant is like a mattress and a toothbrush. It's kind of essential. And today I'm going to tell you about a specific deodorant brand that you may have never heard of its called native deodorant native deodorant is made without aluminum and maybe you're thinking yeah, it's deodorant.

1 (10m 35s):
Why would there be aluminum in my deodorant? Well go home today and check out. The ingredients in your deodorant and maybe you won't ask that question anymore. Another thing that's not in it parabens who wants Banning their deodorant. Anyway, native deodorant has ingredients that you have heard of like coconut oil and Shea Butter ingredients that you might not be freaked out about being in your deodorant. It comes in a bunch of great smelling sense or unscented which is my favorite scent and it's got baking soda free options for sensitive skin if you're Sensitive like that check out native for yourself. You get 20% off your first purchase of native deodorant at Native deodorant.com.

1 (11m 20s):
Use the promo code explained as per usual native deodorant.com promo code explained if you don't know now, you know, that's a Notorious BIG reference. Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus only in America Dia odd tax after you see the ticket Place only in America can such a perfect game exist Face Forward hamburgers These Burgers bacon chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America.

1 (12m 19s):
Little America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria. These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live. Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to T V Dot a Dot-com the show is called Little America 8 episodes check them out now.

1 (13m 5s):
Three month old Anna Beatrice coolers like any normal baby, but Anna was born with microcephaly an extremely small head due to abnormal brain development a devastating neurological condition that doctors suspect is linked to a zika virus infection during pregnancy. There's breaking news now on the Ebola outbreak at the Centers for Disease Control and prevention in Atlanta has just released a new

2 (13m 36s):
alert a chance to get the hard-to-find H1N1 vaccine produced a polite Stampede of parents and not so happy children in Fairfax, Virginia this morning a slump in West Delhi for many residents. What is already a hard life has gotten tougher since a major Outbreak of dengue and Chikungunya in the

1 (13m 56s):
city are there more of these Public Health emergencies in the you know 21st century than there used to

2 (14m 5s):
be. Absolutely when researchers have looked at the rise of infectious diseases in recent decades. They found that they have become more

1 (14m 13s):
common. Do we know why

2 (14m 15s):
I think there are four major reasons we can point to so the increase in travel and Trade Organization population growth and climate. Emmett

1 (14m 24s):
change. Okay. Well, let's go through those because some of them seem pretty obvious to me and some of them seem a little more worthy of explanation. So I mean travel more people are flying from China to the United States and Canada. So we have higher risk of of the spread of disease

2 (14m 43s):
before the Advent of mass air travel people were getting on boats or trains and they couldn't go very far very fast and now you can bring a new disease to an entirely new Tune in within

1 (14m 54s):
hours. Okay, so that one seems kind of obvious. But to me urbanization feels almost like it could help because people are interacting with animals Less on a daily basis is that not the

2 (15m 7s):
case with urbanization we have these like densely-packed cities. So if you think about China right that the city is our massive like we're talking tens of millions of people living in very very close quarters. And when you have a respiratory virus that just spreads through Ooh coughing or sneezing your packed on subways Iran in cafes in apartment buildings. It becomes pretty easy to spread that

1 (15m 31s):
virus. And does that go hand-in-hand with population growth?

2 (15m 36s):
Absolutely. It means we have more people living in closer proximity than ever before and that's just Paradise for our virus, right? It has more hosts to infect and and to propagate itself. So that's what we're up

1 (15m 51s):
against does this then effect like Poor people living in cities more than people with

2 (15m 57s):
resources right now the way we think this outbreak started was people interacting with animals carrying the virus in food markets in this very densely populated city, but we know that when viruses Ted impoverished or we can Health Systems, they tend to spread much more easily and people just have fewer defenses against them. So they might be less likely to be vaccinated against the disease or to be able to To access doctors who can help them in the case of the West Africa ebola epidemic a few years ago. Basically every American infected with the virus in that period of the outbreak survived and the same wasn't true for West Africans, you know of more than 11,000 people died

1 (16m 42s):
there and lastly climate change are these viruses just always happier and healthier and warm places

2 (16m 47s):
actually sort of so we know that as temperatures rise across the planet. We know that the In insects that can spread diseases that affect humans that they were the places that they live is changing along with the temperature. So for example with the zika virus and Dengue, they're carried by a certain type of mosquito and one of the reasons researchers think that mosquito might be reaching new places and reaching more people lately is because of climate change because you know mosquitos thrive in warm and moist

1 (17m 21s):
environments. Okay, so we've got climate change and urbanization population growth Global Travel all factors leading to this greater risk of the spread of these infectious diseases but isn't like Global health and science as advanced as it's ever been is that helping counter these factors

2 (17m 45s):
yes science is definitely advancing at a dramatic Pace like if you just watch this outbreak and folding you can Papers being published and shared Open Access every day researchers gaining new knowledge of this virus and obviously a country like China already has this recent experience with SARS. So the general agreement is that even though right now things aren't looking so great that they're much more prepared than they were during SARS, but on the other hand these outbreaks are happening at a more rapid pace and sometimes were caught off guard in an Ideal World. We'd already have a handle on the pathogens that are circulating in animals that could pose a risk to humans and we'd be able to predict those outbreaks and have you know, things like vaccines ready for when they happen and obviously we're not quite there

1 (18m 38s):
yet. Are humans doing something wrong other than you know living closer to each other and causing climate change?

2 (18m 45s):
Yeah and getting on planes all the time, which Greta isn't happy about for environmental reasons and something that's also not great for health reasons. A lot of people in public health talk about public health being a victim of its own success. So we've had these near misses with outbreaks in recent years and you know people become complacent and think that the next pandemic Really isn't going to come because we have done such a good job generally of stopping outbreaks before they go pandemic and they spread around the world in the u.s. Context spending on public health has been falling in recent years. But obviously we have to be vigilant in these diseases can catch us completely off guard and that's what we're seeing right now in China with this new

1 (19m 31s):
virus is part of the problem here the way that world leaders respond to these viruses. They don't necessarily respond with Intentions of protecting the world but maybe protecting their own country's interests

2 (19m 45s):
that is also part of the problem. So one bit of political theater, we see trotted out again and again with every outbreak and it's happening now in China and with other countries around China is putting people under quarantine and doing screening at airports 100 experts from the CDC are descending on JFK Los Angeles and San Francisco Airport's this weekend. They Are taking the temperatures of passengers arriving from Wuhan China, even though those efforts might sound like they'd be effective at stopping a virus from spreading researchers have found again. And again that they don't work. They failed to find sick people and sometimes they even increase the odds of an outbreak getting worse by driving people underground.

2 (20m 29s):
So that means like, you know people might be less likely to show up in hospital and Report their disease. They heard economies. They make it harder. Foreign aid and experts to reach the places that are affected in an outbreak and help but yeah history repeats itself. There were lots of travel restrictions in quarantines during SARS. You might remember in Toronto. There were like 25 thousand people quarantined. Yeah. It was an epidemic that caught Health officials off guard in 2003 SARS previously unknown respiratory illness spread to Canada. No, where were the effects felt more acutely than in the city of Toronto and We also had travel restrictions in airport screenings in Toronto.

2 (21m 12s):
And when the public health agency of Canada did analyses of how effective these measures were they basically found they were totally ineffective and that they didn't catch a single case of the disease. Hmm. So I yeah, we'd be much better off if instead of imposing those sorts of measures we tried to educate the public about in this case an entirely new virus and encourage people to report their Is to authorities the CDC determined that the risk of this virus spreading in the u.s. Is really low, but we can see it spreading rapidly in China and and China has really deep connections to other major cities in Asia.

2 (21m 53s):
So that's where the problem lies in we need to put our resources in our money and our efforts into controlling the outbreak there. With every outbreak we definitely learn and with this one. I'm absolutely mind boggled by the pace at which new discoveries are being made. So again while you were partying on New Year's China was only discovering or announcing this outbreak and within like two weeks. They had both found the virus that was causing it and they had released its genetic sequence to the public and countries around the world quickly prepared diagnostic tools to be able to In cases that just like a mind-bogglingly fast-paced when you compare it to other I'll break some new viruses.

2 (22m 42s):
So yeah, we're definitely learning more with every outbreak, but you just hope that this one will come under control and that will have the opportunity to apply this knowledge again to prevent the next one from harming

1 (22m 55s):
people. Julia Blues is covering coronavirus for Vox. You can follow along and vox.com and she's also on Twitter at Julia of Toronto as of publishing time the who still hasn't declared this virus a global public health emergency, but they have shared some information on things you can do to reduce your risk of catching. The list includes keeping your hands clean covering your ish when you're coughing and sneezing thoroughly cooking your meat and eggs and avoiding unprotected contact with live wild or farm animals.

1 (23m 48s):
I'm going to go ahead and say that these are good guidelines for your life. Generally unless you're like a farmer in which case thank you for your service. We are back with more useful information tomorrow on Today explained.