4 (0s):
This episode is brought to you by quip. Remember quip they want you to know that having healthy teeth means brushing twice a day for two minutes and flossing regularly quips electric toothbrush makes it simple. It's got sensitive Sonic vibrations with a built-in timer and 30 second pulses for a full even clean plus crippled send you floss fresh brush heads and toothpaste refills. Every three months with free shipping want to try out quip go to get quip.com explained right now to get your first refill free that spell G ET Q UI p.com explained quip the good habits company. This episode is brought to you by US Cellular.

4 (41s):
There's never been a better time to switch to US Cellular because now when you do you'll get 50% off select new smart phones like the Samsung Galaxy S 10 E4 the Google pixel for a great choice on a great phone now, that's fair US Cellular choose Fair terms. Matthew Iglesias host of the weeds podcast covet 19 the novel coronavirus finally seems to be hitting the economy the markets been all over the place.

4 (1m 23s):
Where are we now we had really big declines over the weekend and continuing through Monday stocks way down interest rates way. Way down all kinds of commodity prices way down some particularly crazy stuff with oil but really across the board down down down Tuesday. We had a partial rebound, but if you look on a week-long or month-long basis, it's still down across the board and you know, nothing has sort of fundamentally changed in terms of our scientific understanding since Friday, but we're getting a really clear sort of Warning Sign from financial markets. And how is all that connected to the Corona virus? Well, I think if you think about it, when you look at places that have had more severe outbreaks and the measures Public Health officials say you need to take it's things like having office workers.

4 (2m 10s):
Stay home rather than come in.

3 (2m 11s):
We know that Facebook Google LinkedIn. Those are three major tech companies there now strongly recommending their employees work from home. A Facebook is also strapping Albury events and telling workers to cancel all business

4 (2m 24s):
travel. It's canceling large events telling people not to go to movie theaters not to hold big parties. He's things like that in a major move City officials today in Austin declared a local disaster and canceled this month popular South by Southwest Festival. So think about what that means in concrete terms, right? It means fewer people getting lunch across the street from their office. It means fewer people going to hotels it means less hours for people who work in the Leisure and hospitality industries. It means less tips for those kinds of people. So that's millions and millions and millions of working-class people. Looking at reduced incomes reduced ability to spend and that has a big secondary impact on demand all throughout the economy of people don't have any money they can spend if they can't spend nobody else can make money investment starts to go down.

4 (3m 14s):
You've got a recession like most Americans work is providing in-person services to other people if we're getting the message from the government, which we seem to be that you know, you got to do less stuff. You have to stay home more you have to cancel your events. That's really bad for the economy. And that's even before talking about some of these problems in Supply chains, right? If Apple can make iPhones. They also can't sell iPhones. A lot of companies have very complicated International supplier networks and shutdowns in just a handful of cities can create big disruptions to the supply side of the economy. So, where are we seeing the most disruptions so far in the US in the Seattle area, we can see sort of what is to come elsewhere, right?

4 (3m 59s):
Which is that Is on in Microsoft or the two biggest employers there. They've told people to stay home do their jobs in their office. Those companies have also done the right thing and said that they are going to keep paying their hourly workers, you know people doing a blue-collar tasks that they're going to keep paying them their full salaries, even though they don't need them for all the hours. Unfortunately Microsoft and Amazon can't guarantee that for everybody in Seattle. There were quotes about, you know, people who work at coffee shop saying well, we don't have any customers anymore and you're seeing the slow. Down of an economy where even though we think of those two companies Microsoft and Amazon as a sort of pillars of the Seattle economy. It's still the case that most people there.

4 (4m 40s):
They work in stores. They work in restaurants. They you know, they clean houses they do tasks for other people and you can't operate a sort of modern service economy without people leaving the house and doing things and I imagined for blue collar workers. This hits particularly hard blue collar workers in particular don't have lots of Discussions right if they don't have money coming in, there isn't going to be money going out and that's going to hurt everybody's business ultimately, right? If you can't sell consumer packaged Goods, there's not going to be advertising on like podcasts that you and I host and that's not going to be good for our livelihoods, you know, and it goes on and on like that. I mean people like to sort of draw distinctions and divide cutting lines, but we really are all in the same boat together economically and even though the pain is probably going to start with sort of blue collar people working.

4 (5m 30s):
In hospitality industry is the pain will be felt everywhere unless we do something quickly and it's heading hospitality industries all over right? I mean South by Southwest is pretty far from Seattle did that just get cancelled because so many people were coming from different places. Well exactly. So the City of Austin decided to cancel the conference because they didn't want to have tens of thousands of people coming in from all over the world. They decided that wouldn't be prudent for public health, but I also know people who live in Austin who work

3 (5m 60s):
Are

4 (6m 0s):
and it's devastating to them. They weren't counting on this crowd of people and it generates us incredible amounts of business for bars and restaurants for crafts people who build the stages who work the show and for some people they might miss the money, but it'll be fine. Like the Hilton Corporation will continue to exist but for people who were counting on those tips who are counting on those extra hours that sound money they don't have and that they're not going to be able to spend in other local businesses ride. So we'd go sort of Down and Down and Down. Down and down and the risk is that you know, it's not just one city, right? It's every city is going to be canceling these kinds of large events and it's not just in the United States. It's a fully Global problem and an almost unprecedented way and that's just a huge hit to spending and economic activity.

4 (6m 47s):
I have to ask does any of this bad news for certain industries get balanced out by all of the business that like Costco is doing I mean, I was at Trader Joe's they were sold out of all the canned food and bottled water. Yeah. I mean you've had some businesses like cost. Of reported to investors that they've had a surge in sales, but that's impart their warning that they don't think that's sustainable right? It's just people people stockpiling you this funny stuff. There's like Tic tocs of people hoarding things, you know, pasta and canned goods stuff like that. But ultimately even even a grocery store right there business is built around a certain model. They have a lot of fresh produce. They have meat they want people coming in on a regular Pace week after week. So even if you get a little extra sales bump from stockpiling, it's not really good news for any kind of business.

4 (7m 30s):
So if people are going to have less money to spend.

3 (7m 37s):
My name is Matt Cisneros. And I am an owner of Cisco's restaurant Bakery and Bar in Austin, Texas. We were established in 1950 and our partnership group purchased a restaurant in 2017. I'd say South by Southwest is kind of comparable to what Black Friday and Cyber Monday is to e-commerce. That's kind of what South by Southwest is to local businesses in Austin during the ten days. Southwest our revenue for the month alone increases by 40 to 50% with South by Southwest being canceled I'd say our bottom line was affected definitely but in addition to that I'd say our staff is really affected which is super important to us because we want to make sure that they're happy and they're compensated and they use these 10 days every single year as a means to being able to not only pay their bills that help support their Please they've got increased hours.

3 (8m 36s):
But that income to them is something that could potentially pay their kids child care or pay their car payment that month. So when we found out that South I was canceled we basically decided the only thing that we could do is to operate as normal and just hope that you know local economy would sustain by having austinites that we're really looking forward to South by Southwest. Just hoping that they're going to continue to come in the door and And spend money. I mean I'm born and raised in Austin. I've been here 35 years. And so I've essentially never not seen it happen. It's a big hit and a lot of people will lose their year over this loss.

3 (9m 17s):
So it's super sad and unfortunate to see

4 (9m 25s):
the economy is starting to show some serious cracks up next what the US and the rest of the world might be able to do about it. I'm no I'm hassenfeld filling in for Sean Rama's for him while he's on vacation. This is today explained. This episode and the following emphatic reminder is brought to you by quit brush your teeth. Seriously, you can even brush right now. If you don't have a quip you can hit pause and go grab your brush. But if you do have one, it's probably quiet enough that you won't even need to stop listening no matter what brand of toothbrush you use though. The most important thing is building good habits by brushing twice a day for two minutes and flossing regularly and quips electric toothbrush makes building those habits much.

4 (10m 12s):
Easier that's because their electric toothbrush has sensitive Sonic vibrations with a built-in timer and 30 second pulses guiding you to a full and even clean plus quipped delivers floss fresh brush heads and toothpaste refills every three months with free shipping. So you never have to worry about running out of what you need. Want to try out quip go to get quip.com explained right now to get your first refill free that spelled g ET Q UI p.com. I explained quip the good habits company. Hey while you're listening to this podcast T-Mobile was busy building the largest 5G Network in America.

4 (10m 55s):
All right, well into it all during this one podcast. They spent years improving their Network to be ready for the future Wireless 5G. Well, the future is here and it's Nationwide. T-Mobile's 5G network is in over 5,000 cities covering more than 200 million Americans. It's 5G service. You can actually use even in places where other signals just get locked like your living room. Or bank vault. Okay. Well, probably not the last one Now's the Time you get ahead of the 5 g game Why not pick the first largest and only Nationwide 5G Network. Go to tea - mobile.com. That's t - mobile.com capable device required coverage not available in some areas downlink.

4 (11m 34s):
Only some uses may require certain plan or feature CT -

3 (11m 38s):
mobile.com

4 (11m 44s):
So Matthew, I'm sure it's going to be really hard to get the entire world to work on a economic response to coronavirus. But for the time being what can the u.s. Do for its part there's a lot we could do. I mean we need to generate more demand that fundamentally me in some combination of higher spending and lower taxes from the government and then we can talk about you know, what's sort of Ideal what's actually workable but fundamentally the government can buy Staff it can give money to people that they can spend or it can collect Less in taxes. So that again people can go out and spend so we need more people to have more money that they can spend into the economy. Yeah, and ideally get the money into the hands of the people who have sort of financial needs ride because there may be wealthy people who are cutting back just because it doesn't seem like a good time to spend and if you give them extra money, they'll just kind of sit on it, but then you have a lot of people who live paycheck to paycheck, but those paychecks may be getting smaller.

4 (12m 41s):
If you give them extra money, you're helping people in need but also they will go out and spend that money and bolster the incomes of everybody else. And that's where the sort of highest value comes in. Okay, so that seems like not exactly the easiest thing to do immediately. What kind of things can the u.s. Do to make that happen so you can cut payroll taxes. This is what employers and employees pay something out of every paycheck, you know, bi-weekly or monthly a good thing about this is it can be done really really fast, right? If Congress says stop collecting these payroll taxes, it's just boom next payday. It comes into place. So President Trump has been talking about doing this. It sounds like Democrats and Republicans on the hill do not love the idea.

4 (13m 23s):
And when I've spoken to policy experts a lot of them are also a little lukewarm on it to me. The sheer speed is very appealing another thing you could do, you know, that's sort of smart for the long term is invest money in worthwhile projects, right? I mean if we can make zero carbon electricity I got Crew putting solar panels on my roof today. I mean that's just a coincidence. But like it's a great thing for the government to do because borrowing money is really cheap right now economic activities really needed but we'll be glad for years to come right if we have stuff like that and then another thing that's easy to identify right now. Is that state and local governments? They're going to lose sales tax revenue. They're going to lose, you know meal and beverage tax revenue and they're going to have a lot of expenses right there doing all these extra treatments.

4 (14m 9s):
They're trying to you know help It's who may not be able to go to school things like that. So just give money to State and local governments and let them do kind of whatever with it right Congress normally doesn't like to do that but it would be simpler and easier to just sort of put money into those State treasuries and and let the governor's figure it out because probably all they'll do is maintain their existing service levels, which is easy and simple, but if they come up with something else to do, you know, why not Okay, that all sounds like a lot of stuff that Congress might not want to do so quickly. Are there any ways to get around Congress to make sure it actually happens people have been talking sort of policy nerds for years about what we should create automatic triggers.

4 (14m 51s):
Right? We should have a policy in place that says anytime there's a downturn this that and the other thing will automatically happen and I would strongly advise Congressional Democrats to write something like that, right so address the initial problem, but also putting Place a system for any future recessions because I know I'm hearing some grumbling from Democrats. Like look, we know Republicans wouldn't bail us out with stimulus if we had a democrat in the white house and I think that's probably right or at least it's an understandable reaction, but the world needs help now, I mean, it's not a good idea to spike the economy just to sort of Stick it to Trump, but you can solve the bigger problem and create an automatic program so that when there's a downturn extra money goes out we stabilize the economy will I save things in the short term but also solve future problems except the way Congress seems to be reacting right now.

4 (15m 41s):
At least what I saw yesterday was being scared of coronavirus and asking for a two-week recess. Well, some people are asking for a recessed Chuck Grassley was talking about targeted tax cuts for impacted industry is I think that's thinking too small right trying to find the industries that are most directly hurt and give them a tax relief. It's a very Republican way of thinking about it, but for starters right if you owned hotels And your business has like gone to hell because people aren't staying in hotels a tax break doesn't help you write corporate tax cuts. Help profitable companies be more profitable, but that's not the problem now, right the problem is that lower income people may not have any money and certain classes of businesses may not have any customers and nobody needs like high-end tax breaks.

4 (16m 30s):
We need we need cash in people's hands and if we don't take action, I assumed you would say That increases the likelihood of a major recession. Yeah, exactly. I mean there's going to be an economic dislocation caused by this virus no matter what we do, but it could be brief right? I mean, I don't know the full epidemiology of it. But in theory, there's no reason the virus couldn't come and go then we all go back to work and it's fine hopefully with minimal loss of life, but it's also possible to tip into a recession point that goes on for months and months and months quarter after quarter after quarter, and that's purely. Up to whether we manage the policy on the demand side because once people start losing their jobs, the recession becomes self-propelling and it doesn't matter if the epidemic goes away.

4 (17m 16s):
I just want to like take a step back for a second because you know this entire time we've been talking about the us but the u.s. Is just one piece in this huge puzzle kind of like climate change, you know, if we do it over here who's to say they're going to do it over there. So I mean like what would a coordinated International response even look like You know you need some coordination fortunately is a little easier than climate change because we don't all need to be doing the exact same things. A lot of countries have relied in the past on what's called external demand. So it's like, you know, we'll make cars and we'll sell it to foreigners China sort of got its way through the Great Recession initially largely by continuing to export but every country is impacted by coronavirus.

4 (18m 1s):
So there's no place else to go if you had a normal situation And going into it where interest rates were higher. I would just tell you look central banks around the world. They're going to cut interest rates. It's going to be okay at least as long as we can get the public health piece, right because interest rates are already low to stimulate demand where we're going to need is Congress in the United States the parliament in Germany the parliament in Japan whoever makes these decisions in China governments all around the world are going to need to do fiscal stimulus measures are going to need to do Tax cuts they're going to spend on new projects. And ideally they would do it in a coordinated way.

4 (18m 42s):
That's just it's hard like it's easy for me to write down in an article what you should do, but it's challenging political tasks Barack Obama and Gordon Brown really tried to Rally the world to do this in 2009. They had some success but it was limited. It wasn't good enough. And now we've got Donald Trump and there's reason to worry that we will not pull it off even though we could I mean Principle there's no reason why this virus should cause a prolonged recession, but we would have to do something about it. This all seems to be like a real test of the Trump rhetoric of isolationism America first.

4 (19m 23s):
I mean do you see the Trump Administration is really being able to cooperate with these countries across the world on a coordinated effort. I mean, this is high on the irony meter. I think anybody would have told Trump that you know, it doesn't matter what you think or what normal people think that pointy-headed Elites are correct, and there is a lot of Dependence in the world and it matters a lot to America what happens in Wuhan China and sometimes national leaders need to work together, even when they don't agree and like we are seeing that all play out. Now, we are getting a live fire demonstration of global interdependence and the value of cooperation and we have a leadership in the United States that is deeply antithetical to that idea and it's hard right even if leaders really wanted to International cooperation is hard, but we have a Intent to really goes against all of his instincts to think of positive some collaboration and it's a real

3 (20m 21s):
problem.