2 (21s):
Hello, this is Carl. Hey Carl, this is Sean calling from today explained. Hi Carl. Where are you? Right now? I am in a quarantine facility at Nebraska medicine in Omaha. I do have the coronavirus I've tested positive for it. I've now been in this facility for 16 days and last test came out positive so I still have the virus. It's it's 98.7. Sorry, is that your temperature? That was my temperature? No fever. That doesn't sound terrible. I'm sorry. Why? Nope, none just for cough.

2 (1m 4s):
Excuse me, on the what? Oh, oh cough, like costs probably a to on a 1 to 5. It gets worse than the afternoon. There you go. You hurt that real time. Carl. Tell me how this story starts. Where did this journey begin for you for Christmas? And my wife's birthday which falls right around Christmas. I gave her a present of a trip to Southeast Asia cruise on Princess Cruises, the it now Infamous Diamond Princess. We went with two of our close friends and headed for Tokyo on January 17th.

2 (1m 45s):
Three days. Later. We boarded the Diamond Princess. We had a wonderful 15 day of our 16 day cruise through southeast Asia on the last day the captain announced that a passenger had left the ship in Hong Kong about four days earlier and he had come down with the Corona virus. So we were going to race back to Yokohama Harbor in Japan and allow the Japanese authorities to come on board and see what would be decided but we were going to be delayed and not able to leave the ship for 24 hours. What was it like on the ship? Once people found out that there was this new virus that the world had never heard of did it?

2 (2m 30s):
I mean you're talking about being on a joyous holiday vacation. How much did it change the mood on the ship? I think all of us kind of resigned ourselves and said, okay, it's one day Japanese Health officials that come on board. They took everybody's temperature. That was about an 18-hour process. They then told us when we woke up the next day the captain announced that we were not going to be able to leave the ship the next day and we were now quarantine in our cabins for 14 days. Wow, but it still was a remote thing a little later. We learned that 10 people had come out positive with the Corona virus on our ship.

2 (3m 13s):
And that was the start of became angry call. Get the daily count the Grim Reaper the captain coming on the speaker every day and announcing more and more had the virus as of today. They're well over 700 of crew and passengers who have come down with the virus and we've now had a total of six deaths from the virus on the ship, which also is very very sad, but of course you're not on the ship anymore where you part Of the like u.s. Medevac that we read about in the newspapers and online where Americans who had the virus or who were just on the ship got to leave.

2 (3m 59s):
Yeah. So I was in the epicenter of that 300 of us chose to leave when they state department and the US Embassy suggested we leave we were taking my bus over to an airport and Tokyo that had to 740. Seven military cargo planes standing by while we were on the bus authorities learned that some people had the virus. I had been tested two days earlier for the virus, but did not get the results. So I was not one of the group that tested positive while we're on the bus. So I did not know I had the virus boarded the plane six hours later.

2 (4m 43s):
It had already been an all-nighter for all of us. I woke up. Hours later with a very very high fever hundred and three so they placed me inside a quarantined area on the plane. I fell asleep and woke up eight hours later. When we landed at Travis Air Force Base. What happened to you next six of us continued on the flight to Omaha when we got to Omaha. I was taking off the plane. It in an ambulance took me to a bio containment area at the hospital and then put me in a room that was sealed off.

2 (5m 26s):
So I was contained in there for 12 days. Anyone who entered my room came in and full Hazmat Gear 3 layers of gloves on the twelfth day. I was healthy enough to be downgraded and released into an area where there are 15 of us 13. Have the virus and to have been released one is my wife. So that's wonderful. She never had the virus came out negative with that. I guess something I'm curious about Carla's. How does it feel to have coronavirus? How are you?

2 (6m 6s):
What's weird about this virus is a lot of the symptoms of like a mild cold for me without any of the dripping knows no sneezing. No. Body aches it was simply a very very high fever that spiked for about 10 hours disappear came back as a low-grade fever about two days later. And other than that and then being dehydrated a bit from the fever. I do not have any symptoms of the virus even though I'm still testing positive. So those germs are still in there and I'm still contagious. I'm not going to be allowed out of here until authorities are sure that I'm not going To be contagious and what's life, like now in this facility?

2 (6m 51s):
How much time do you have to be there? How does this story end for you? Well, it will end when I eventually go home after testing negative for three days. So you can just flush coronavirus out of your system. Yeah, the Corona virus like the flu or like any other virus eventually leaves the system and my body's immune system fights off the virus. Eventually, you'll get killed off. I just wondered do you think the world is prepared for this from your experience or do you think you know, we're on the verge of a full-blown catastrophe? Well, it already is a catastrophe because their deaths that have happened from this and there's so much that's Unknown about the virus when I was put into the biocontainment unit in Omaha.

2 (7m 43s):
They give was no antibiotics. I gave me I was given a little bit of ibuprofen to make sure that fever stayed down and I was given a lot of Gatorade I joke about that. I've been through every single flavor of Gatorade the full rainbow Spectrum multiple amounts of time to make sure I got hydrated and stay hydrated. But right now there is no cure for it. I think we just have to be smart about it and stop, you know eliminate the cat when I come home. I'm not going You doing the California hugs and kisses even though I will not have the virus that urging everyone not to do that.

2 (8m 24s):
We should probably move for a while to the Japanese simple bowing to each other. That might be a good thing. Once the doctors clear you Carl and you get to go home to California. I wonder are you at all fearful that this thing could come back or do you have faith that once it's out of your system. It's gone forever. We're being assured by the sea. CDC that will be quite some time before the virus can come back to our bodies. They don't know if we've created an immunity forever, but they are assured us that we will go many many many months still being totally immune to getting the virus.

2 (9m 6s):
Well, let's hope it's gone. Once it's gone, huh? Absolutely. I've been staying positive making lemonade out of lemons and realizing a lot of this is out of my control. I've been posting a daily blog on our radio stations News website, which is Hometown station.com and try to you know, show the humor side to this as well as the serious side because I believe if you keep a positive attitude that in itself is a giant lean process Carl thank you so much for speaking with me. I really appreciate it.

2 (9m 46s):
Terrific. Do you have an awesome day and thank you. Carl Goldman is the owner of KH T s-- radio and Santa Clarita California better known as the hometown station. You can find his blog at Hometown station.com. You can find K HT s at am 1220 or FM 98 1 if you're in the six six one shoutouts to the SCV after the Take covert 19 is here and we have to deal with it but there are things you can and should do to prepare that's in a minute on today explained.

2 (10m 38s):
Here's an ad for another podcast from the creators of next big idea and business Wars comes the school of greatness podcast with Lewis house. The school of greatness is the best place to listen and to learn how to dream bigger live better and make an impact the show features conversations with world class game changers and dives into topics from entrepreneurship and inspiration to health and relationships past guests on the school of greatness have included. Tony Robbins, Arianna Huffington, Jerry West D Anka Patrick and many more you listen to their conversations. You learn the keys to their accomplishments and maybe you'll be able to apply them to your own life.

2 (11m 25s):
Subscribe to the school of greatness with Lewis Howes on the Apple podcasts or Spotify or wherever you're listening to this podcast right now. Check it out. Learn the wisdom skills and tools to write your own story, and then make sure you write it. Take care. Goodbye. This ad is for deodorant, but not just any deodorant native deodorant native deodorant is made without aluminum and parabens. No one likes parabens instead. It's got ingredients like coconut oil and Shea Butter. It comes in a bunch of grapes smelling sense or unscented if that's your thing. They even got baking soda free options if you don't like baking or if you have sensitive skin native deodorant sent me.

2 (12m 11s):
Some deodorant the scent I got in the mail is cucumber and mint and it smells so nice you want to eat it, which is weird. Don't eat your deodorant use it for your armpits. Try native for yourself get 20% off your first purchase at Native deodorant.com and use the promo code today. That's native deodorant.com and the promo code today. Thanks native. Kelsey Piper, you've been writing about covet 19 for Vox from California where you live how many cases are there in the United States at this point?

1 (12m 51s):
There are about a hundred cases confirmed in the United States lots of States reported over the weekend or on Monday their first case of coronavirus and it's looking the worst so far on the west coast Washington announced lots of detected cases including spread. A nursing home where many of the residents are in the most vulnerable population and among the staff that works at that nursing home and among paramedics and EMTs and among some students who go to school. Those are not all confirmed cases. Those are all people who had contact with the existing confirmed cases and are now showing symptoms but states have announced in the last week signs of community transmission

2 (13m 32s):
yet. Can we explain to the people out there what exactly Community transmission or T spread means because I'm not sure everyone totally gets it

1 (13m 46s):
Community transmission is when somebody who we didn't catch goes about their life and exposes other people and then some of those people turn up with the Corona virus may be the initial person had a very mild case and never seeks medical attention, but some of the people who they infected do seek medical attention. And so then we get these cases that seem to pop up out of nowhere. Somebody who didn't have contact with any affected areas is somebody who didn't have contact with any people who we know about and nonetheless. They have the Corona virus and that's scary because it implies that in those communities. There are people spreading coronavirus who we don't know about who we are tracking who aren't warranty.

2 (14m 26s):
So just to be clear here. The origin point of this disease jumping from animal to human is still in some Market in China, but now this is spread to the point where you Could get it from someone who's never been to China in their life.

1 (14m 42s):
Yes. We don't know for sure. There is a market that's been implicated in the initial spread of coronavirus, but it's there's so much uncertainty in these things that we can't be confident. It's the market but certainly it was in Wuhan China where people first got the cases in the initial cases were all linked to Han and at this point that's not true at all. You know, some people from Wuhan travel to Singapore travel to South Korea traveled to And traveled to Indonesia traveled to the United States. They got people sick. Those people got people sick. Those people got people sick. Now you could easily get the Corona virus from your neighbor who has never been to China or been out of the country at

2 (15m 23s):
all. We've been covering coronavirus on the show since like January and since then we've been talking about all the things that people can do to avoid coming down with it from you know, wash your hands really thoroughly with hot water for 20 seconds. Don't touch your face avoid going out in public places. If you feel sick stay at home, like clean and disinfect your stuff cough and sneeze into your elbow or into a tissue throw that thing away, but have we learned anything more in the interim like other things? That you should be doing.

1 (15m 57s):
So those are still big features of the advice. There's a couple things that have been added one is a lot of people are asking should I use a face mask? And the CDC is encouraging the use of a face mask. If you are caring for someone who has the coronavirus or if you are sick yourself and need to avoid spreading it and discouraging using a face mask. If you don't that's the recommendations for public health experts in the United States because masks are hard to use properly they can make the situation worse. If you don't use them properly and we have a shortage of mask, so there's worries about getting enough of them to our health care workers. But on the other hand in South Korea, they are trying to make sure there is a mask in every single citizens hand to avoid the exposure because they think they can teach people how to use them properly and then that becomes a great tool to reduce transmission.

1 (16m 48s):
So I think you should follow the recommendations of us Public Health experts, but I'm very interested in weather in a year. It'll look like The u.s. Approach here, which is no face masks unless you're sick or the South Korean approach which is you know, a face mask for everybody is going to end up having done more to reduce transmission of the virus.

2 (17m 8s):
I'm going to be putting our vice president Mike Pence in charge President Trump has appointed Mike Pence to be in charge of dealing with coronavirus in the United States. He is not exactly a medical professional as a former Governor from the state where the first MERS case. Emerged in 2014. I know full well the importance of

1 (17m 33s):
presidential

2 (17m 34s):
leadership the importance of administration leadership and the vital role of

1 (17m 40s):
Partnerships of state and local governments and health authorities in responding to I think that their Administration is facing something of a crisis of confidence

2 (17m 54s):
one of the

1 (17m 54s):
most important things. That the government can do during a palace outbreak is provide regular clear detailed trusted updates to the public. I think the administration is falling down on many of those counts. There was a lot of effort last week to say the risk to Americans remains low and maybe there won't be further cases in the US which experts considered on realistic that it was clear that there was Community spread in the u.s. It was clear that there would be more cases and it's hard to say if the risk is low. I think at this point in Kirkland Washington, we can safely say that the risk is not low because there appeared to be you know, dozens of people who've been exposed through Community transmission and potentially hundreds of cases.

1 (18m 39s):
So instead of saying the risk is low before we were testing anywhere we should have been saying we have not conducted enough tests to give you an accurate sense of the risk as we conduct more tests. We will learn in which areas there is a risk and in which areas there is not and we need the public space. And if they'd said that then I think people would be a lot less scared. Now that said appointing the vice president to direct pandemic response is an idea that's been raised before by public health experts because part of the problem the US has is that there's lots of different government agencies with different roles. The FDA has a role. The CDC has a role of the NIH has a role Homeland Security can play a role FEMA can play a role and it would be good if there were one leadership role that clearly had authority over.

1 (19m 26s):
All these distinct departments. So for that reason, I'd read papers long before the virus broke out arguing. Hey, this would be a role of the vice president who has the sort of authority to coordinate among all of these agencies. And so it's possible that Trump was actually following standing advice when he gave that even if that was his reasoning because Pence has a history of badly mishandling any tivey outbreak in Indiana. So picking the vice president isn't actually Side the box as a solution, but from selection of pence in particular has left a lot of people with questions and that's very

2 (20m 2s):
Justified. The president has been asking pharmaceutical companies to work as quickly as they can to come up with a vaccine even if they do we're talking about something that's going to happen. Well down the road,

1 (20m 17s):
right usually the process of making a vaccine takes a long time. It takes a long time to get the vaccine to test it and make sure that it works and then to get it over clinical barriers and into use in the United States. Obviously everybody who works in this field is working as hard as they can to That happened faster and it is possible that will get kind of Lucky in that they'll hit on something quickly and be able to get it into testing quickly and it will test really well. However, I think that's less likely then that the process take more than a year, which is what it usually takes even when we're

2 (20m 55s):
rushing and before we get off politics you're in California. And today of course is super Tuesday your state along with a bunch of other states is holding an election today. Do you? Think fears over covet 19 will affect

1 (21m 9s):
turnout. I think there's some cancers that I've talked to some people who are taking the precaution of avoiding large Gatherings and are thinking about what that means for whether they want to go to the polls today, California does allow mail-in ballots, but you have to have requested them ahead of time. So if you didn't request one ahead of time and are now a little worried about the coronavirus you have a tough decision to make personally I'm going to be going to the polls. But yeah, I know some people who won't be going to the polls and I would not be surprised if

2 (21m 36s):
Turnout is depressed. It certainly seems like people are scared. I've been hearing stories of you know, Cliff Bars being sold out at the grocery store people buying like a thousand dollars worth of groceries. I mean, how should people go about preparing for this are people overreacting or like is it more of like a who are we to tell people how to prepare for what could be a huge outbreak across the country.

1 (22m 1s):
I do want to hesitate to tell people they're overreacting precisely because the effects of the current no virus very so much by who's affected. For example, the death rate among elderly people is upwards of fifteen percent. So that's an incredibly deadly disease and I would certainly not begrudge any people in that age bracket whose plan is to stock up on food and not leave their house for the next three months if that's nothing that they're able to do and have the resources to do for the typical healthy person. The advice from public health officials is to Leave by buying a couple more things every time you go out and instead of by sweeping the shelves clear on one trip to the grocery store purchase the supplies in order to stay home for two to three weeks with the idea being that if you get sick and you are not sick enough to go to the hospital, but are sick enough.

1 (22m 53s):
You should stay home and certainly shouldn't be at the grocery store. You'll want to have on hand everything you need to weather that sickness. And if you stay healthy then having some food at home could also allow you to write out. Out a period of particularly intense spread of the disease in your area.

2 (23m 15s):
And if you're healthy, you can just continue to drink Coronas and not freak out like my friend Jordan little brother who got in a different line at the grocery store because the person in front of him was buying

1 (23m 25s):
Coronas. Yep, it is if you would previously have purchased current a beers go ahead and continue purchasing Corona beers all those studies that say 38% of Americans won't by Corona beers because of the Corona virus makes me wonder. Okay, but how many of those Americans would have bought current affairs? For

2 (23m 42s):
that needs made me wonder about a lot of things Kelsey. Thank you. Thank you for making time for

1 (23m 47s):
us. Thanks so much.

2 (23m 55s):
Kelsey Piper rights for vaux's future perfect. It's a section of our Newsroom dedicated to covering how people are trying to make the world a better place. If you'll believe that I'm Sean ramens room. This is today explained wash your hands people. It's good practice.

1 (24m 17s):
This is a film Shapiro engineer of today explained. I'm here with Harvey Shapiro who is going to teach us how to wash our hands properly Harvey. Thanks Ephram. So I read this article on vox.com called wash. Your damn hands is by her. Mom Lopez and Julia Blues. Here's what it says. Number one the CDC states that washing your hands for at least 20 seconds is very Essential for my opinion if you wash your hands for 21 seconds, you actually more likely to get eaten by a shark number to wash your fingertips and under your nails number 3 wash your hands after every trip to the bathroom blowing your nose coughing or sneezing and before eating wash your hands, especially after Twitter because you don't know what's on Twitter, you know what I mean?

2 (25m 19s):
Welcome to the school of greatness. My name is Lewis Howes. I'm a New York Times bestselling author former professional football player and entrepreneur and I love helping people. I love coaching people and I've been hosting the School Readiness podcast for over 7 years. It's one of my favorite things to do and my mission of this podcast is to help improve people's lives. I get to share inspiring stories and interviews three times a week with the most brilliant business mind. World class athletes authors and influential celebrities on the planet to find out what makes great people great and how you can improve your life as well through

1 (25m 58s):
their lessons and stories. Be sure to subscribe to the

2 (26m 2s):
show on Apple podcast and leave us a review and now it's time to go out there and do something great.