0 (1s):
Today is the day today, the 11th of May, 2023 is the day that the Covid 19 public health emergency ends in the United States. But what exactly does that mean? I asked Dr. Karen Landman, she's v's. In-house epidemiologist. Did we do it? Is Covid finally over

2 (21s):
Sean? No. Come on. Nobody is saying that.

0 (28s):
Oh,

2 (29s):
This just means that the money's run out. Democrats in Congress tied to get funding extended for the public health emergency and Republicans said no. And actually a bunch of Democrats also said no. And huh. And so the funding for a bunch of Covid related stuff and for a bunch of non covid related stuff that does actually have a huge impact on health is, is gone.

0 (50s):
What that means to the United States of America coming up on today. Explained

WashingtonWise (1m 0s):
Support for today Explained comes from Washington Wise. It's an original podcast from Charles Schwab. Decisions made in Washington DC can affect the markets every day. But what policy changes should investors be watching Washington Wise is an original podcast for investors from Charles Schwab. The show covers the stories making news in Washington, and also how they might affect your finances and investments. You can listen today@schwab.com slash Washington wise. That's schwab.com/washington wise

4 (1m 33s):
This week. On the weeds, hundreds of anti LGBTQ bills have been introduced in state legislatures across the country. The vast majority targeting trans rights.

5 (1m 45s):
This care is actually already without these laws. Incredibly difficult to obtain even if you have a good job, even if you have good insurance. And I think that people skip over that and lawmakers certainly do. They make it sound like you just get it at your corner store.

4 (1m 59s):
I'm John Glenn Hill, host of the Weeds, a podcast all about the policies that shape our lives. New episodes drop every Wednesday. Find it wherever you get your podcasts

1 (2m 15s):
Today.

0 (2m 16s):
Explained.

6 (2m 18s):
Now you say not Francis

4 (2m 21s):
Today.

2 (2m 23s):
Good job.

0 (2m 26s):
So the covid funding from the federal government is ending as of today.

2 (2m 30s):
So now we're going back to pre covid funding for a lot of stuff. Not to say that we haven't, you know, reached a point in the pandemic where hospitalizations and deaths are in a way better place than they were. They are. We are probably at the lowest point for hospitalizations and deaths that we've been for almost the entire pandemic.

0 (2m 50s):
So tell me what changes immediately and how are we gonna notice those changes?

2 (2m 55s):
One of the biggest changes is gonna be that covid related testing and vaccination and treatment. Instead of being paid for out of the big US government bucket that was paying for it, those are going to get shifted to insurance payments. So that means that Medicare and Medicaid are gonna pay for those things. Hmm. Sort of for the people who are on those types of insurance. And when I say sort of, I mean like Medicare's gonna pay for a lot of this stuff for its beneficiaries, but people who get Medicaid, there's gonna be some state-by-state differences in what gets paid for and how much people who are on private insurance, everybody's gonna have different rules depending on what their insurance company decides they wanna cover and how much of it they wanna cover.

2 (3m 39s):
Okay. And then people who are paying out of pocket who are uninsured, which is still something like 8% of Americans, they're gonna have to pay for everything out of pocket when it comes to covid testing, covid vaccinations and covid treatment. Another big change is that something that was implemented to keep people from being uninsured during covid, that measure is gonna expire. And that measure was this sort of Medicaid auto renewal. So people who qualified for Medicaid, instead of having to requalify every year like they had before the pandemic, they were allowed to just kind of stay on Medicaid. Now that's, that's gonna change, it's gonna go back to the way it was where states have to kind of reapprove everybody who applies for Medicaid every year.

2 (4m 24s):
That means a number of things. It means number one, that they're gonna be gaps in people's coverage, which we know translate to people not getting the care they need. And sometimes incurring debt, even if that sometimes gets paid for afterward, it, it often really discourages people from getting care when they're not covered.

0 (4m 39s):
So basically anything that the federal government was paying for, if you could assume the federal government was paying for it, if money was falling out of the sky to help this pandemic, it's drying up. That's it.

2 (4m 49s):
That's it for what it means for the covid public health emergency to run out. Yeah.

0 (4m 54s):
Well, Karen, let's use this opportunity here, this sort of end of the emergency to talk about how the federal government did in its response to covid 19. Not just the funding, but but the, the politics and the, you know, the response from the cdc, all of it. Let's, let's talk about the full package three some years into this, into this pandemic. And let's start with what we got right Before we talk about what we got wrong, what did we really get right in the United States? Yeah.

2 (5m 25s):
It's definitely easier to start with what we got, right? Cuz it's a much shorter list. Ouch. Sorry. Facts. So I think the resounding victory here was warp speed,

7 (5m 37s):
Warp one <unk>

2 (5m 38s):
Warp, which was the enormous infusion of billions of dollars into developing testing and deploying a vaccine for covid.

0 (5m 48s):
This was the, the former president, right? Yes.

2 (5m 51s):
That, that man helped get that into progress and, and he really made that happen along with a lot of other people who knew it needed to happen. Mm. It's built actually, interestingly on the foundations of the response to sars.

0 (6m 6s):
So George W. Bush deserves the credit.

8 (6m 8s):
Thank you. Thank you. Now watch this drive.

2 (6m 11s):
Let's not get hysterical, but the org, the national agency that was started after Barta under the Bush administration, you know, helped kind of organize the funding for warp speed

9 (6m 24s):
Barta was created to be able to respond to a coronavirus pandemic like this. We focus on chemical threats, biological threats such as anthrax, nuclear threats, radiological threats, pandemic influenza, and emerging infectious diseases.

2 (6m 40s):
We can't get anything done in this government if we don't have a framework to get the money to the people who need it. Right? And so that actually for this existed. So that was good, right? We'll see later that it didn't exist for a lot of other important things and that that was a problem and remains a problem. But for this, we had a mechanism to get money to people to do research. There also had been some developments in science a few years prior that really set up researchers to kind of know that mRNA vaccination was gonna be a fast route to making a, a vaccine quickly and making it one that was nimble. So, you know, meaning that could be changed. So that was that, that was some like nice setup to actually knock this one outta the park.

2 (7m 22s):
So we got vaccination at least creating the vaccine, right?

0 (7m 28s):
Okay. So we did the vaccines, right? We, we we mobilized quickly, efficiently and, and arguably miraculously

2 (7m 36s):
Kind of, we hate using the word miracles in science cuz it was science that did, it was humans making choices, not just a, you know, an accident of fate or the, you know, the universe. It was people making good choices that made this happen. And science, you know, scientists working hard and being curious and doing the work. So that, that was great. We also did some other stuff in, in science and in public health and in kind of more thinking a little more broadly about what health means in, in supporting people. You know, we stepped up investment in people's ability to feed their kids in people's access to Medicaid. That was, that was all good, right? Cares and the American rescue plan, big pots of funding that did a lot for a lot of people early on and, you know, loosening telehealth restrictions helped people get care.

2 (8m 25s):
As we just said, a lot of this is gonna get rolled back. So it was kind of this experiment that worked. But that doesn't mean that we're gonna keep doing the thing that we tried because politics. But in any case, so we, you know, and, and like scientists jumped on this, there's a lot of excitement and we got a lot of expansion of knowledge in different areas of science. Understanding indoor air quality for example, that's a big one. Like we learned so much about what we need to do to protect people from infectious particles indoors.

10 (8m 58s):
The woo to improve the air students will share started last year in this one junior school alone, $600,000 has gone towards ventilation upgrades that will increase the amount of fresh air coming in. And to pay for uni ventilators with high grade filters in portable classrooms

2 (9m 15s):
As a humanity. I think there's a lot of stuff that we are kind of aware of now that we weren't before. And some of that is, is kind of neat. It's, it's kind of cool that people know what epidemiology sort of is.

0 (9m 29s):
There's so many of them on Twitter.

2 (9m 31s):
I know they're everywhere now. I think there was a lot of, a lot of advance in science and that that was great. And the trick will really be, you know, applying this going forward and not letting some of the other problems that came up prevent us from learning from this experience.

0 (9m 47s):
Okay. So we funded a lot of science, we learned a lot as a species about disease. We vaccinated this country for the most part with a couple exceptions. Is that the whole list, Karen? Or, or do we need to make more time on the show

2 (10m 7s):
For successes?

0 (10m 9s):
Yeah,

2 (10m 12s):
I don't, I don't think so. I don't think that's nearly as interesting as the problems. So I think, I think we can, I think we can move on. Okay. Sorry.

0 (10m 27s):
Can we use that? We're gonna use that Support for today's show comes from Koda. As you well know, Q2 is in full swing, but it's never too late to take stock of what's working and what needs a refreshed Koda may be able to help your team run smoother with more efficiency. Coda is the dock where teams can work on entire projects from start to finish with everything they need all in one place. That includes different documents, spreadsheets, and a stack of workflow tools all in one centralized location regardless of format. With Coda, you'll never have to ask what are the latest project updates cuz you'll have 'em right in front of you.

0 (11m 11s):
Anyone know where the performance stats are? Cuz you'll have 'em right in front of you. Or is there a report about licenses I can see, cuz you'll have them right in front of you. You can try Koda today for free by going to koda.io/explained coda.io to get started for free coda.io/explained.

11 (11m 40s):
Hey folks, I'm Heather Cox Richardson. And

10 (11m 42s):
I'm Joanne Freeman.

11 (11m 44s):
We're the hosts of now and then a podcast from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network that looks to the American past to make sense of our current political and cultural climate.

12 (11m 55s):
Recently we've traced the tangled history of the New York County District Attorney's office, the American cultural fascination with UFOs and our national love hate relationship with the banking industry.

11 (12m 6s):
Tune in each Wednesday as we make sense of the headlines and the long road to this crucial moment for democracy.

12 (12m 13s):
Listen for free wherever you get your podcasts.

13 (12m 19s):
Don't come to the front during a pandemic because you figured out how to start a podcast

0 (12m 27s):
Today. Explained is back with Dr. Karen Landman here at Vox. Karen, it sounds like you're stoked to talk about what we didn't get right in this covid emergency in the United States. Here is your chance. Where do we begin?

2 (12m 43s):
Well, first I just wanna normalize us completely failing to learn from public health problems in the past. Hmm. We've done this before, like we had SARS back in the early two thousands.

14 (12m 56s):
Are we prepared for any kind of epidemic? Do those masks really work? I mean, what, what happens?

15 (13m 2s):
The great fear here, Martha, is that if we get large numbers of cases are our hospitals are not ready to handle those. You need

2 (13m 10s):
To ice. There is H one N one,

16 (13m 11s):
President Obama decided to declare the epidemic a national emergency of swine flu. And around the country, people were lining up waiting for hours to get vaccinations.

2 (13m 21s):
And each time there were signals that when the big one hit, we were gonna have some problems. And we just didn't really listen to those signals. Hmm. You know, this isn't the first time that we've been in this situation where the, the need for some big solutions is really staring us in the face and we're kind of letting politics and other priorities dictate what we do instead of those signals. So I think one of the big things that we did wrong is that we just really undervalued and underestimated how important and how powerful human nature is and just kind of undervalued social science more broadly.

2 (14m 5s):
I talked to 10 different experts about what the US government did right. And what they did wrong around Covid. And one of these experts talked about the Dunkirk effect, which is sort of where, do you know what Dunkirk, what happened at Dunk Kirk?

0 (14m 18s):
Christopher Nolan.

2 (14m 19s):
Exactly. If you see the movie or read a book or just read the Wikipedia, what happened was that in the face of an onslaught of an attack, normal people, civilians banded together to come up with a solution.

0 (14m 33s):
The leisure boats. Yes.

13 (14m 35s):
Aren't you waiting on the Navy devas

17 (14m 37s):
For the moon stone ever under captain

13 (14m 42s):
And this sun?

0 (14m 45s):
I remember, I, I remember from the, the film

2 (14m 48s):
And and history,

18 (14m 50s):
What you doing, you do know where we're going. France,

0 (14m 58s):
Oppenheimer, July 21st.

2 (14m 60s):
So like the Dunkirk effect is basically about how people band together to help their community when they're faced with a disaster. But this person was like, Dunkirk only lasts a few weeks, then you need policy to come in and, and do things. You need institutions to do things. Human nature isn't gonna be enough to get us through this. And they're absolutely right. Like behavioral scientists just weren't part of the policy making early on. And really when, when I talk about warp speed being a, a success like that means that we made a great vaccine, right? But it doesn't mean that we spent a lot of energy trying to figure out how to get vaccines into arms, how to overcome vaccine hesitancy, which was not new with Covid.

2 (15m 42s):
That had been a, a burgeoning issue for more than a decade. But it wasn't really part of the study early on, we took a punitive approach to a lot of public health policy rather than a harm reduction approach. You know, meaning we, we made mask mandates in a lot of places in the United States, which suggests that if you don't wear a mask in certain situations, you're gonna get punished. You're gonna get fined without really thinking about what we already know about how people do when they're faced with punitive policies instead of policies that encourage you to reduce your own harm and think about your community. Mm.

0 (16m 19s):
We got a little finger wavy you saying we got

2 (16m 22s):
Very finger waggy, not just individuals but our policy makers. And we're still doing that. That's, that's still the dynamic.

0 (16m 30s):
I love going into, I love going into a store that still has a sign on that says you must wear a mask and no one's wearing a then people just literally forgot to take the signs down and now it's just embarrassing. It's just like a reminder of how we failed. We

2 (16m 42s):
That's behavioral science, bro.

19 (16m 45s):
And that's your bra.

2 (16m 48s):
We could have thought about that. We could have studied it. And even just like taken action based on what we know about behavioral science and about the effects of having punitive policies in place versus harm reduction. But we didn't, we didn't study the costs of interventions. We only really studied the benefits and you know, that might be in part because a lot of the costs are in the Department of social Scientists and that maybe led us to assume that too much is better than not enough. I mean, I think school closures are a great example of this. Mm. We always would rather do something than not do anything that's human nature, behavioral science. But there are costs to doing that.

2 (17m 28s):
And we saw a lot of those costs in a lot of ways. We didn't really value implementation science, which is a whole field of how you turn interventions that are supposed to help people on and how you get people to, to use them and then also how you turn them off. So, you know, we're just, we're looking at, we were looking at all of these interventions through the lens of clinical trials, which is a very nerdy, very sciencey, very narrow, really way to understand public health. And that doesn't really account for all the human nature and all the nuance that goes into determining whether people are gonna do what you tell them.

0 (18m 8s):
So we've got problems of like behavioral science, implementation science. Do you think had we done a better job here, we'd be a little less divided as a country than we are now? Because of course the pandemic created a lot of anti-vaxxers and broke up a lot of families and friendships over, over these social aspects.

2 (18m 27s):
You know, I think it's very, very hard to say whether we would've been in a different place because we had an administration when this started. I don't know if you remember that was hell bent on using this to political gain. And I have to say, I don't think that that trend has receded. There's

0 (18m 43s):
The same guy we talked about in the, in the beginning with the operation warp speed.

2 (18m 47s):
Yep. Same dude. There are a number of people I've talked to who looking at the way Covid played out globally, how even in countries where things seem to go well early on, things didn't go well later. And a lot of people have told me that they're not sure that there was anything that would have really changed the way this played out early on.

0 (19m 9s):
Really? Yeah. Like a different president, a more behavioral informed approach.

2 (19m 19s):
Yeah. I was sort of surprised by this. I think a lot of folks felt that the wheels were already turning on a lot of the problems and they weren't just turning in this country. You know, they're a, a lot of the, the issues that we faced with vaccine distrust, they're not uniquely American. A lot of the issues we faced with mandates backfiring, not uniquely American. So I think there were a lot of folks who felt like, you know, human nature would've eventually become a really big problem no matter what, given the set of options available to us back when this started. There's just a little bit of hopelessness about whether we actually had what we needed back then to get it right.

0 (20m 4s):
You said earlier that we didn't listen to signals from prior emergencies. Had we listened, what else could we have done?

2 (20m 10s):
This is another big area of failure, which is that we were not prepared. Our public health systems and our healthcare systems just suffered from our total failure to invest in them ahead of the pandemic. And that is a decades long problem. You know, capitalism is a, is one of our core core tenants. And so we, a lot of what we do at the choices that we make are guided by those priorities. So some examples, let's, let's just start by talking a little bit about public health and why underfunding public health set us up here. So we continue to fund public health the way we had for years, which is through line items in the congressional budget.

2 (20m 52s):
So that means that instead of getting one giant pot of money that's pretty similar year to year and being able to figure out how to allocate it within the agency, c d C gets a whole bunch of line items, amounts of money. And those line items kind of align with different sections of the cdc. So like H I V and AIDS will get a certain amount of money and chronic disease will get a certain amount of money and like respiratory diseases will get a certain amount of money. And so that money can only really be used by those eight little sections or centers within the C D C that gives the c c a lot less flexibility and also subjects them to big changes depending on the mood and the way the wind's blowing in Congress.

2 (21m 34s):
So we did not change that method of getting C D C funding. So that system had to kind of be made on the fly.

0 (21m 44s):
Are we going to do better next time? Karen?

2 (21m 49s):
Oh boy. I have to tell you, I did not hear a lot of hope Hmm. From the folks I talked to on this end. Yeah, there was.

0 (21m 56s):
So some future host of some future show will be asking some future epidemiologist the exact same questions I'm asking you now at the end of the next pandemic.

2 (22m 6s):
I mean, it may not be that far away. It might still be you, Sean. Oh no, sorry. Lots of really smart people have put their heads into figuring out what we should do differently. The amount of despair that I heard from people on whether our politicians could be trusted to do what they need to do to implement some of the most basic recommendations was just, it was very saddening. I think we are not in a place in the United States where, where our leadership is really motivated that much by what's best for people, though a lot of 'em are really motivated by staying in power. It's really hard to countenance,

0 (22m 47s):
You know, in the absence of good politics, Karen, do we as a people, if we end up living through another global pandemic, are we better equipped to do it? You think we gotta be right? Having lived through it, having had the experience.

2 (23m 3s):
I mean,

0 (23m 4s):
Some of us at least,

2 (23m 6s):
We'll

0 (23m 7s):
We'll know maybe to wear a mask if it's airborne.

2 (23m 9s):
Okay. Yeah. There's some of us who will wear a mask immediately and still have masks.

0 (23m 13s):
Some, some of us, some of us never took 'em off. I still see 'em sometimes out in the wild.

2 (23m 16s):
I've seen some interesting stuff lately about political polarization as a risk factor for poor public health outcomes. And that resonates more with me than almost anything else I've heard. It just makes so much sense when you think about it. Right. And has political polarization gotten better in the last few years? I would very much argue no. And I, I, there are data to back that up. I think the tribalism and the political polarization that we are seeing now is worse than it was back when the pandemic started and it was bad then. But it's not better.

2 (23m 57s):
We're still, you know, shaking our fingers at each other about this pandemic when everything over the last three years plus a whole bunch of behavioral science tells us that is not the way to get people to change their behavior. But we've kind of become the basis versions of ourselves now and it seems like it's gonna take a long time for us to bounce back.

0 (24m 16s):
Okay. One major takeaway from this pandemic, weirdly, I did not think this would be it. Stop wagging your finger at people

2 (24m 23s):
Never good idea. Not, not neighbor to neighbor, not health department to citizens. That was not the way to convince people to do anything. Still

0 (24m 35s):
Not

2 (24m 35s):
Whether you're a progressive or not. And whether the figure wagon is directed at progressives or not, you should be able to appreciate that. Finger wagging doesn't work.

0 (24m 54s):
Dr. Karen Landman. Read her@vox.com. Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain. We were edited by Matthew Collette, mixed by Paul Robert Moundy and fact checked by Laura Bullard.

2 (25m 6s):
Sorry. Facts.

0 (25m 8s):
I'm Sean Ramis. For the rest of the team here includes Halima Shaw, Avi Shai Artsy, Haddi Ma Wadi, Amanda Luellen Miles, Bryans Petros, and my co-host Noel King. Our supervising producer is Amina Aldi. We had some extra help this week from Jolie Myers and Michael Rayfield. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and congratulations are an order for Patrick Boyd today. Explained is distributed by W N Y C on public radio stations across America or part of the Vox Media Podcast network. If you like email, you can email us anytime today, explained vox.com. We read those emails and I don't even like emails,

2 (26m 22s):
Bro.