0 (1s):
Previously on America, after the unprecedented attempt by former President Donald Trump to stay in power culminated in the storming of the US Capitol by Trump supporters. There was a demand from Democrats and even some Republicans for a reckoning with what happened. And what resulted was a mostly democratic filled committee, but with two key Republican appointees, Liz Cheney and Adam Kininger, both members of Congress, Republicans who were truly appalled by what Trump did.

0 (42s):
They gathered new evidence, they gathered depositions. And we are getting to the Swan song of the January 6th committee this week, and that's what's ahead on today explained.

2 (1m 1s):
What do you think today This, I dunno.

1 (1m 7s):
Andrew Procop Vox, the House select committee, looking into the January 6th attack on the US Capitol is wrapping up its inquiry this week. They're gonna release a thousand page report that will surely be a top of most Americans holiday reading list, but just in case it isn't. They released a hundred page executive summary of the report that's coming out later this week. What the heck is in it?

0 (1m 31s):
They put together all of the evidence and testimony and weave it into a sort of central narrative, trying to make the point that this was very much a deliberate and planned effort on Trump's part and making the case that he broke the law in several specific ways.

3 (1m 51s):
No man who would behave that way at that moment in time can ever serve in any position of authority in our nation. Again,

0 (2m 0s):
They say, here are the crimes essentially. And the committee voted on Monday to officially recommend Trump's referral for prosecution for these crimes by the US Justice Department. Number one, obstruction of an official proceeding. That is the January 6th counting of the electoral votes in Congress and the transfer of power

4 (2m 23s):
Title 18, section 1512 C, which makes it unlawful for anyone to corruptly, obstruct, influence, or impede any official proceeding of the United States government.

0 (2m 39s):
They argued that by trying to prevent the transfer of power, trying to get Mike Pence to overturn the outcome and getting his supporters to make trouble, Trump was trying to obstruct that official proceeding, which is illegal.

4 (2m 56s):
We believe that the evidence described by my colleagues today and assembled throughout our hearings warrants a criminal referral of former President Donald J. Trump, John Eastman, and others for violations of this statute.

0 (3m 13s):
Number two, conspiracy to defraud the United States. In

4 (3m 17s):
Other words, to make an agreement to impair, obstruct, or defeat the lawful functions of the United States government by deceitful or dishonest means.

0 (3m 30s):
This is a pretty broad statute that we've seen often in the Mueller investigation. Other corruption investigations that the Justice Department can use when they think that a public official or anyone really is trying to abuse their power to prevent the government from fulfilling its official functions. And in this case, that function would be recognizing the lawful and accurate result of the election and turning power over to the rightful winner. Joe Biden. Number three is conspiracy To make a false statement.

4 (4m 8s):
The evidence clearly suggests that President Trump conspired with others to submit slates of fake electors to Congress and the National Archives.

0 (4m 17s):
He said that Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and Michigan and Georgia, Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico, that they were gonna put together a slate of Trump electors from each of these states and they were gonna submit them to Congress and say, these are the electors from the state. So the goal here was to get those into the hands of Vice President Mike Pence, who was supposed to open the envelopes of the electoral votes and, and read them out. And Trump wanted Pence to say, oh, I've got two sets of electors from this state. I don't know what to do about it. Maybe we shouldn't count them or that Congress would have to vote on what to do about it.

0 (5m 1s):
But the committee's position is that this was essentially fraud. They were creating a list of electors that were not the true electors from the state, that that was a, a lying list of electors and that that deserves to be officially prosecuted. And then number four is assisting and insurrection against the United States.

4 (5m 23s):
It is a grave federal offense anchored in the Constitution itself, which repeatedly opposes insurrections in domestic violence and indeed uses participation in insurrection by office holders as automatic grounds for disqualification from ever holding public office again at the federal or state level

0 (5m 45s):
Four crimes there in their opinion. And then they will refer it to the Justice Department for the consideration of recently appointed special counsel Jack Smith. The

4 (5m 57s):
Committee has developed significant evidence that President Trump intended to disrupt the peaceful transfer transition of power under our Constitution.

1 (6m 7s):
And, and what does that mean? Refer it to the Department of Justice because this is coming from Congress. Does that carry any more weight than some guy mailing the Department of Justice a letter saying, Hey, I think my, my neighbor is committing, you know, bank

0 (6m 23s):
Fraud. So I think the context for this has changed over the course of the year. There was a debate earlier in 2022 about whether the committee should recommend charges against Donald Trump should make this criminal referral. The referral does not procedurally do anything. It does not force the Justice Department's hands. It's a recommendation from Congress. It says this is what we think. Now they have made already this committee and the house have made two recommendations for prosecution that the Justice Department did act on. They indicted Steve Bannon and Peter Navarro, both former Trump advisors for refusing to comply with the subpoenas that the committee offered.

0 (7m 9s):
So the Justice Department actually swung into action pretty quickly on those. But those were kind of special cases because that's the committee saying, we think that these people defied our subpoenas and and we think you should prosecute them for that. They also recommended to other people, Mark Meadows and Dan Scavino, other Trump White House officials be charged for the same thing, but the department decline to prosecute them. So it's really up to the Justice Department to decide what to do. Now at the beginning of this year, it wasn't totally clear how intensely the Justice Department was investigating Trump himself for his involvement in January 6th and what they were thinking about it criminally.

0 (7m 54s):
So in that context, it was possible that perhaps the committee's recommendation could be a wake up call to the Justice Department, a call to action say, Hey, we think this is really important and you should go after it. But over the course of the year do J'S investigation has seen to grow a lot more serious and a lot more intense. The subpoenas have been flying, the Special counsel has been appointed. They're clearly looking at this very seriously. So as compared to yesterday, will the decision to make these criminal referrals today change anything about do J's Mind? I don't think so. Was the whole process of unearthing new evidence undertaken by the committee helpful in shifting do j's thinking on this topic?

0 (8m 41s):
That is possible.

1 (8m 42s):
So was it just the former president or were there criminal referrals for anyone else?

0 (8m 47s):
So the committee also referred several other people, mostly lawyers for Trump who were deeply involved in this effort to overturn the election results. Huh? They were John Eastman, Kenneth Chesbro, Rudy Giuliani and Jeffrey Clark. Clark being the Justice Department official, who Trump considered appointing to put in charge of the Justice Department and who wanted to enlist DOJ in declaring the election results were false and untrustworthy and that state legislators should disregard them.

5 (9m 22s):
By that point in time, election related litigation was over in all or nearly all of these states and Trump campaign election lawyers realized that the fake slates were unjustifiable on any grounds and may be unlawful in spite of these concerns and the concerns of individuals in the White House Council's office. President Trump and others proceeded with this plan.

0 (9m 47s):
There was also Mark Meadows Trump's former chief of staff for just being involved in this whole effort. Meadows

1 (9m 53s):
Is interesting because yeah, Meadows transcends the legal team. He was in the administration, but, but I feel like this stuff could apply to some members of Congress too.

0 (10m 0s):
Yeah. So there were also some members of Congress who the committee referred to the House Ethics committee for them to look into what they did. Hmm. This includes likely next speaker Kevin McCarthy as well as likely next House Judiciary committee chair Jim Jordan. Wow. Representative Scott Perry, who was involved in this Jeffrey Clark Justice Department scheme and also Representative Andy Biggs doozy. But those referrals were generally in connection to them not testifying before the committee in response to its subpoenas. They didn't really try to issue a, a final assessment of the legality of the behavior of various members of Congress who were involved in Trump's scheme.

1 (10m 44s):
And I know all of this feels sort of familiar and, and even maybe slow moving to people who believe something very detrimental to our democracy transpired on January 6th, 2021. But as a reminder, has anything like this ever happened before Criminal referrals from Congress to the Department of Justice against a former president?

0 (11m 8s):
No. Did anything like January 6th ever happen before? Also? No. This is a totally unprecedented situation and I think what happened initially is that there was some confusion and some lack of clarity, lack of precedent within the department, within Congress about how to even think about what transpired and what the committee has been doing is providing what they hope to be more clarity about how to think about what Trump did, what it amounted to, and why in their view it was criminal.

1 (11m 49s):
More with Andrew in a minute on today, explained, today explained, we're back with Andrew Procott from Vox Andrew. We've talked about these hearings a bunch of times on today, explained, including just now with you, but some things are different now. As you mentioned, the committee is done, the former president has announced he's running again. Meanwhile, Republicans are gonna take over control of the house in less than two weeks. What are they gonna make of this January 6th Committee's referrals and report in which some of them are named and referred to the House Ethics Committee.

0 (12m 36s):
The new Republican majority is expected to either shut the committee down totally or to try to do an investigation of the investigators looking for malfeasance in the way that Republicans try to prove misconduct for the Trump Russia investigation as well. So they're not going to take this particularly seriously or reflect on it in any way

1 (13m 2s):
As the former president announced he's running, how do these referrals and the G o p taking control of the house play into that?

0 (13m 11s):
So Trump is running again, allegedly. He announced his campaign, but he hasn't really held any rallies or done very much. And he seems to be declining in the polls a fair amount, but I wouldn't really say it adds to the legal jeopardy he was facing because he was facing a lot of legal jeopardy already. The big thing that has happened over the course of the year is that the d o j investing investigations of Trump have gotten much more serious and that just recently a special counsel was appointed to take charge of them specifically because Trump announced he was running again. So now there is one person in charge of both the January 6th investigations and the other probe into whether Trump violated classified information laws in taking documents to Mar-a-Lago.

0 (14m 2s):
So he was already facing very serious legal scrutiny and, and this report does not necessarily do anything to change that by itself. So

1 (14m 11s):
This sets the stage for the former president to be running for office again while being investigated by the current Department of Justice

0 (14m 18s):
And perhaps indicted

1 (14m 19s):
A and that that Department of Justice is run by his potential opponent in this next election. I mean, I isn't this automatically fodder for him to say, like, look at this corruption. Look what they're doing to me. They're, they're trying to impede my campaign by investigating me, by indicting me.

0 (14m 37s):
He is absolutely going to say those things regardless of what happens with the investigation, what the strength of the evidence is and so on. But I think the Justice Department made the decision that, you know, if they think that he broke the law here in this unprecedented sweeping effort to stay in power, and then that they were going to follow the facts where they lead in their view and to try to hold him accountable. And he can protest however he likes, but you know, they're not gonna let him off the hook because he's gonna whine and complain about it.

1 (15m 14s):
There are a lot of people out there, Andrew, who believe that this president is, is above accountability and some people are happy about it, and then some people are, are not. Is there any reality, is there any world in which Donald Trump faces the music for what happened on January 6th?

0 (15m 32s):
I do think that's quite possible. I mean, we're still a bit of a ways away from there, but you know, I, I know that hypothetical people out there may feel a bit disillusioned, a bit like we're in Groundhog Day, that Trump's been investigated so many times and nothing's come of it, et cetera, et cetera. This is just gonna be more of the same. And you know, maybe it will, I can't say for sure what the future holds, but there are some really important differences. Now, all of the investigations while he was president, ended with the problem that DOJ said it would not indict a sitting president. Now he, he's not president.

0 (16m 13s):
He doesn't have those protections anymore. There's also the Supreme Court lying in weight if there are some creative interpretations of certain statutes that DOJ uses to indict Trump. But the Supreme Court may be lying in weight to say, no, actually we think Trump was just doing kind of normal politics and he wasn't really breaking the law. So we don't think your charges stand. So, you know, there, there would be several twists and turns lying ahead. But personally, as someone who's covered Trump's legal jeopardy since 2017, I think he's closer to facing charges today than he has ever been in the past.

1 (16m 51s):
Of course, whether or not the former President faces charges or the music, one of the great tragedies here beyond January 6th itself is that most Americans can't agree on what happened that day and and can't agree on the import of the work that was done by this committee. Did the committee ultimately accomplish anything before we see what the DOJ

0 (17m 15s):
Does? I think the committee accomplished a lot, much more than I initially expected when this was initially being put together and it was envisioned as a truly bipartisan committee with Republicans and Democrats represented perhaps equally. I didn't think it would accomplish anything. I thought it would be just completely bogged down in partisanship and and nonsense. But the committee ended up with just Democrats and with two Republicans who were really, really mad at Trump for January 6th, ended up being kind of the best of both worlds for them because it is still bipartisan. Liz Cheney is not a Democrat. She is a rock solid Republican on essentially every issue.

0 (17m 57s):
But she was just truly appalled by what Trump did after the election and on January 6th and wants him to be held accountable.

3 (18m 6s):
No man who would behave that way at that moment in time can ever serve in any position of authority in our nation. Again, he is unfit for any office

0 (18m 19s):
And she was more than any other person on this committee. She was the leading force in its investigation and what it did, and it often acted more aggressively than I would've expected. It found more it, it got surprising results in testimony. Most notably from the White House Aid, Cassidy Hutchinson. She revealed several really surprising things such as that Trump really, really did want to go to the Capitol on January 6th. He really tried to get the secret service to bring him here. The

7 (18m 53s):
President said something to the effect of, I'm the effing president, take me up to the Capitol. Now,

0 (18m 58s):
When we all watched Trump's attempt to stay in power unfold in real time, it often seemed kind of comical. There were unhinged figures like Rudy Giuliani, Sidney Powell, Mike Lindell, the pillow salesman playing, starring roles spreading like total nonsense establishment. Republicans were averting their eyes, all Trump's lawsuits were getting thrown outta court. There was a press conference at Four Seasons, total Landscaping, where Rudy Giuliani appeared to be melting in public. Like it all seemed kind of ridiculous. But the committee has really tried to dig in and make the case that rather than something flailing and silly, that this was deadly serious and that the seriousness was not just about the violence at the Capitol on January 6th itself.

0 (19m 45s):
The seriousness was that Trump's conduct was part of a larger plan, that there was some evidence it was premeditated even before the election, and that they don't buy anyone's arguments that Trump may have believed his own lies or became lost in conspiracy theories. They say he was knowingly prevaricating.

4 (20m 5s):
The whole purpose and obvious effect of Trump's scheme were to obstruct, influence and impede this official proceeding. The central moment for the lawful transfer of power in the United States.

1 (20m 22s):
And their work is over, but the story isn't so to be continued,

0 (20m 29s):
The ball is really in the special counsel's court. Now

8 (20m 33s):
Today I signed an order appointing Jack Smith to serve as special counsel

0 (20m 38s):
Jack Smith. He's a career prosecutor. He headed the public integrity section of the Justice Department and he stepped down from the department in 2017. And since then he has been chief prosecutor for a European Union body that's investigating war crimes in Kosovo. He's been working out of the Hague and he's really been removed from the Trump era controversies not playing a part in them at all, but he has a reputation as being like a tough, serious, no nonsense prosecutor who is going to follow the facts where they go. And so now the ball is in his court. He's now taken charge of this.

0 (21m 19s):
He is still ultimately accountable to Attorney General Merrick Garland. Garland will have to sign off on any charging recommendations that Smith makes, but his eventual view of the facts will carry great weight and in determining what happens and whether Donald Trump does end up being indicted.

6 (21m 43s):
Alright,

1 (21m 44s):
So we'll see you Jack Merrick and Don in the new year.

0 (21m 48s):
I guess we will.

1 (21m 55s):
Andrew Procop, Vox Rita's work@vox.com, won't you? Our program today was produced by Haddi Ma Wadi and s Petros. It was edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Athe the Dream Shapiro. I'm Sean Ramas. This is today Explained. You can get in touch with us anytime via email or today explained vox.com. We may not always reply, but we most definitely read. Consider and appreciate your feedback.