1 (3s):
If the Today Explained court calendar is correct, the trial of Sam Bankman free, the Crown Prince of Crypto begins today. Jury

2 (11s):
Selection starts today in the New York Federal trial of Sam Bankman Free. The 31 year old is accused of defrauding investors and customers out of billions of dollars.

1 (20s):
You remember Sam, right? People call him SBF and he ran the Crypto Exchange. FTX. These are real things. They're gonna transform the economy. There were commercials.

0 (29s):
Fortune favors the brave.

1 (31s):
No, no, not that one. The one with Larry David, brother

0 (34s):
David. Behold, it's a fork. I got 10 forks right here that day. Am I right? Yes.

1 (43s):
We're gonna talk about SB F's meteoric rise and his lightning fast fall. What it means for you and me, and whether Crypto could ever make a comeback.

0 (54s):
Eh, I don't think so. And I'm never wrong about this stuff. Never.

Wrangler (1m 0s):
At Wrangler, we know what it means to be ready with jeans, shirts, and jackets that are made for falls cooler days and longer nights dive headfirst into a new season in Wrangler For the Ride of Life.

IHG Hotels and Resorts (1m 15s):
Let's just say I like to live life on the edge And to give my small business the same edge I turned to I H G Hotels and Resorts. Just signing up for I H G Business Edge gave everyone at my company a chance at saving at over 5,800 hotels worldwide. And my registered travelers receive Silver Elite status after just one stay. So either way, I keep my edge. Sign up now@businessedge.ihg.com. Terms apply,

0 (1m 51s):
I call it today Explained. Hmm, I don't think

1 (1m 56s):
So. Ferm here with Zeke Fox Zeke's, an investigative reporter at Bloomberg and the Author of the new book number go up inside Crypto's Wild Rise and staggering Fall. I asked him to remind us just how up number go.

5 (2m 12s):
When I started working on this book, one Bitcoin cost $69,000 in the total market value of all cryptocurrencies was $3 trillion during the pandemic. We're all on lockdown, we're all bored, we're on the internet all day. And it felt like Crypto was inescapable. Not only was it something you'd read about in the paper, you're hearing about it from your friends. One of my friends, particularly annoyingly, started telling me that I should buy something that he called Doggy Coin.

0 (2m 52s):
Doge.

5 (2m 53s):
Yeah. I, being a financial reporter was like, I know about this stuff. It's called Dogecoin. It's dumb. Don't buy it. And he was right. It went up. He made enough to fund a trip to Disney. Then he texted me, I am freaking Nostradamus. You should have bought some of this doggy coin too. And first off, I'm annoyed 'cause I like being right. But second, I'm thinking, what? Like, how could this happen? Dogecoin doesn't do anything. There's no reason for it to go up other than people buying it. 'cause I think other people might buy it. And I'm, I'm looking around, I'm seeing all these random coins are going up.

5 (3m 34s):
A

6 (3m 34s):
New Crypto inspired by the Netflix hit Squid Games is taking flight at this hour.

7 (3m 40s):
It's a small step for Bitcoin, but it's a giant step and a giant leap for humanity.

5 (3m 49s):
I remember watching the Super Bowl that year and seeing ad after ad each with the underlying message that Crypto in some vague way is the future. And if you don't go gamble on it right now, you're a loser and we're all gonna get rich without you. Fortune

8 (4m 5s):
Favors the brave.

5 (4m 7s):
It felt like the logic of the financial world was broken and the kind of work I had done for years as a financial journalist meant nothing.

1 (4m 17s):
And where did Sam Bankman freed fit into that world?

5 (4m 21s):
Sam was a schlubby guy. His uniform was cotton shorts, an FTX T-shirt, and then really messy curly hair. He acted like he had no respect for the traditional institutions of whether that was Washington or the venture capital world or Wall Street. And yet all the people in these various worlds were obsessed with him and competing to hand him billions of dollars. You know, the US Senate were inviting him to DC

8 (4m 54s):
Real good produced by. And so, Mr. Beckman, free, I'm gonna interrupt you because I've only got 30 seconds left and I'm offended that you have a much more glorious Afro than I once had. So really quick. So he

5 (5m 7s):
Created this image that he was the guy who understood it all. Kind of like the only honest guy in Crypto, if you can believe it.

9 (5m 15s):
He worked at a Wall Street trading firm called Jane Street, and it's a very successful trading firm. And his pedigree and background at Jane Street is part of what helped him get to the level that he got to it's part of.

10 (5m 28s):
Well, what SBF did was he operated under this philosophy of effective altruism. It basically says you make money to give away money. He never,

5 (5m 36s):
His money to begin Sam made his first money in Crypto with this one weird trick. Back in 2017, Bitcoin on a Japanese Bitcoin exchange where Japanese people traded cost $11,000. And in the United States you could buy one for $10,000. So this is something that's unheard of in mainstream finance, but in theory, you could buy one Bitcoin on a American app, zap it over to a Japanese app and make a thousand bucks right there. So not only did he do it, but he immediately figured out how to borrow tens of millions of dollars to do it at as much of this as possible.

5 (6m 19s):
And within a few weeks, he had exploited this arbitrage to the tune of something like 20 million bucks in profit. This profit seeded his Crypto trading hedge fund, which he named Alameda Research. Sam picked the name Alameda Research because it sounds innocuous banks at the time did not want to be involved in Crypto.

11 (6m 45s):
We just knew that was gonna be a thing And, that if we named our company like shit Coin Day Traders Inc. Like they that, that they probably just reject us. But I mean, no one doesn't like research.

5 (6m 57s):
Alameda Research was a hedge fund that traded all kinds of cryptocurrencies and in theory exploited, you know, cool arbitrages like this Japanese one. After a couple years of doing that, he, as he tells the story, realized that many of the Crypto exchanges where Alameda did business were pretty subpar compared to the ones that he was familiar from, from his time on Wall Street. And that's when he decided to start FTX. Why

12 (7m 28s):
Created Exchange when there were already so many big global players out there?

11 (7m 32s):
Yeah, I mean, the basic answer is that we didn't think any of them had nailed

5 (7m 35s):
It. FTX, which was a Crypto exchange, which basically just means it's an app where you can trade all these Crypto coins similar to E-Trade or Robinhood or something like that. His app wasn't even the most popular one, but so many people were trading Crypto that venture capitalists had valued FTX at $32 billion. Today

13 (8m 3s):
Your valuation is,

11 (8m 5s):
It's 32 billion internationally and eight in the us. How

13 (8m 10s):
Old is your company?

11 (8m 12s):
About two and a half years.

13 (8m 14s):
Two and a half years. Okay, let's

14 (8m 16s):
Talk about when do we start to see cracks?

5 (8m 19s):
Ft X's downfall began with a sarcastic tweet. One of Sam's lieutenants had written something nice on Twitter about Sam's biggest rival cz, the head of Binance, which was the biggest Crypto exchange under this nice post Sam, wrote sarcastically,

14 (8m 43s):
Excited to see him wrapping the industry in DC Going forward, he is still allowed to go to dc right?

5 (8m 52s):
The joke is that he's a international fugitive, which is not entirely untrue, but also not a very nice thing to joke about on Twitter. A couple weeks after this tweet, an article came out in the Crypto News site. Coin Desk. That was kind of confusing, but it revealed that Sam's Hedge fund, Alameda owned quite a lot of a token called F T T, which was essentially stock in Sam's Exchange. FTX, huh? Then also on Twitter, Sam's rival cz tweeted that he would be selling off his F T T tokens.

5 (9m 38s):
He wrote, we won't pretend to make love after divorce. We're not against anyone, but we won't support people who lobby against other industry players behind their backs. I mean, this wouldn't necessarily seem like a big deal that, you know, a rival company is selling its stock in your company. But it kind of set off a run on FTX where other people who owned F T T tokens started to sell them too. And as the price went down, it made people start to worry about the stability of FTX and investors who had sent money to FTX to use it to bet on other cryptocurrencies started taking their money out.

5 (10m 20s):
In theory, this shouldn't be a problem. If people have sent money to FTX to gamble with, then FTX should have no problem giving the money back. Sam went on Twitter and told

14 (10m 35s):
People, FTX is fine, assets are fine.

5 (10m 38s):
But it turned out FTX did not have the money that it needed to repay clients. And after more and more tried to ask for their money back, eventually it was revealed that FTX did not have this money. In fact, $8 billion had somehow disappeared and FTX had to file for bankruptcy.

1 (10m 59s):
Where was all that money?

5 (11m 1s):
It turned out that when you sent a thousand bucks to FTX to buy some doggy coin or Dogecoin, and then you saw on the app, you know that you now owned, you know, 2000 Doge coins. In fact, what was really going on is that that a thousand dollars that you had sent in was being lent to Sam's hedge fund, Alameda Research, which was taking it to other exchanges to make all sorts of crazy betts.

1 (11m 33s):
Is that legal Zeke?

5 (11m 36s):
No. After FTX declared bankruptcy, I contacted Sam and said, I'd like to talk about what had happened and hear his side of it. So I flew down to The Bahamas and we spent 11 hours basically trying to answer to that question. His argument is that many of the people who traded on FTX were these hedge funds like Alameda, And, that part of the deal was that FTX would give them loans that were secured by assets. And since this is the Crypto world, the security was not gold or real estate or something like that.

5 (12m 20s):
It was random coins. So his explanation was that the borrowing was permitted, the customers should have been aware of it, And, that he did not realize how out of hand it got.

11 (12m 32s):
Some part of it was just literal distraction. I sh really should have spent some time each day taking a step back and saying, what are the most important things here? Right? And like, how do I have oversight of those and make sure that I'm not losing track of those? And frankly, I did a pretty incomplete job at that. I spent a

5 (12m 55s):
Lot, the idea that he would just not count his money to the point that $8 billion could just go missing without him knowing, it just seemed really implausible to me.

1 (13m 8s):
It sounds like he was trying to tell you a story. What do you think the real explanation was in that moment?

5 (13m 13s):
The amazing thing is that Caroline Ellison, the c e O of Alameda, she had actually told her version of the story to all of the employees in a way that I found to be more credible. In November, 2022, while FTX was in this financial distress, there was a moment where it looked like Sam's rival cz was actually gonna bail out FTX and buy it. So for a couple days there, the people at FTX kind of thought they were in the clear. And during that time, Caroline Ellison called a meeting of all her employees at Alameda. And at this meeting she essentially confessed.

5 (13m 58s):
She said to all the employees, Hey, I'm really sorry, but Alameda has taken out all these loans from FTX and we invested it in illiquid, which means hard to sell things and like that's why we're in this trouble. But good news is, you know, CZ is bailing us out and hopefully the customers can get all their money back from him. And the employees were just like floored. And they said, wait, who knew that Alameda was borrowing the customer funds for its crazy Crypto Betts? And Caroline said, me Sam. And then two other top lieutenants.

5 (14m 40s):
And then one of the employees said, well who decided to do this? And she said, Sam, I guess The prosecutors who are now trying Sam have a recording of this meeting. Hmm. So this is Caroline who thinks that no one will ever find out and they're in the clear, in the moment admitting to the crime, which I think is pretty strong evidence.

1 (15m 17s):
We will ask Zeke what to expect from the trial of SBF when we're back On today explained

3 (15m 30s):
At Wrangler we know what it means to be ready with styles that are made for falls, cooler days and longer nights. Meet those crisp mornings in jeans that have you ready for the day ahead. Dive headfirst into every moment in shirts that fit right and feel great and journey into the night in jackets that are ready for anything. The season's changing. So keep warm, stay cool, and be ready In Wrangler for the Ride of Life

17 (16m 0s):
Right now it's the biggest sale of the season at C V S. The Big Fall Wellness Sale is going on now through October 14th. Use your extra care card to shop the lowest prices of the season on wellness support products and more with new deals each week. This week save big on brands like Tylenol, Abreva and C V S Health, but these hot deals won't last. So break out that extra care card and get after some big fall. Wellness savings. The big fall Wellness sale only at C V S.

18 (16m 31s):
Well, it's the future of currency. It's an unstoppable financial vehicle that's gonna take over the world. I I get that, but what is it man? I keep telling you it's a cryptocurrency you can trade for conventional money. Oh, so it's a hustle. Yeah, it's a hustle. Hustle.

1 (16m 49s):
Today Explained is back with Zeke Fox and Sam Bankman Free's trial kicks off today. Zeke, what should we expect? Is this going down fast? This is going down slow. Are there gonna be tears?

5 (17m 4s):
I would be shocked if there are no tears. The part of the trial that's most fascinating to me is that Sam's top four lieutenants have pleaded guilty and most of them will probably be testifying against him. That's somebody like Nha Singh who I met down in The Bahamas.

19 (17m 25s):
He was part of that Baha a Bahamian penthouse, right? The, this group of people that lived with Sam Bankman free. He was really close friends with Sam's brother, Gabe Bank.

5 (17m 35s):
He was a friend of Sam's little brother, a guest at, you know, family dinner when he was a teenager who went on to work at FTX, became kind of the boss of all the programmers at FTX. A committed, effective altruist at one point, a billionaire on paper like Sam. He's now admitted to fraud. He said that he was directed by Sam And. here he is gonna be facing him in court, testifying about the crimes that he says they committed together.

20 (18m 7s):
Major questions. Also being raised about Sam Bankman Freed's, rumored ex-girlfriend Caroline Ellison. She's the C, or she was the c e o of sister company. Alameda Research.

5 (18m 17s):
Caroline Ellison, also a longtime friend of Sam's. They dated at times when I spoke to Sam down in The Bahamas. Sam blamed her for a lot of what happened. I imagine this'll come up in court and she's gonna have to testify about what she knew when, what Sam told her to do. Even before all this came out, that this was a giant fraud. I was just really captivated by this idea of this small group of nerdy kids who took these crazy risks to rise to the top of the Crypto world and seeing what they have to say now that it's all collapsed. That's what I'm most interested to see.

1 (18m 56s):
Tell me about the charges. What exactly does the government say was illegal?

21 (19m 2s):
This morning we unsealed an eight count indictment charging Samuel Bankman freed Ft. X's founder with a series of interrelated fraud schemes that contributed to Ft X's collapse.

5 (19m 14s):
There are a lot of charges, each of which could put Sam in jail for years, but the main one boils down to fraud. That's like at the center of the case that this $8 billion is missing and was misappropriated by Alameda

21 (19m 34s):
Bankman Freed and his co-conspirators stole billions of dollars from FTX customers. He used that money for his personal benefit, including to make personal investments and to cover expenses and debts of his hedge fund. Alameda Research

5 (19m 48s):
FTX is now bankrupt and a new c e o has been appointed to clean up the mess. This new c e o John Ray, he had also handled the Enron bankruptcy after that giant fraud was revealed. What he said is that

22 (20m 3s):
This is really old fashioned and, and embezzlement. This is just taking money from customers and using it for your own purpose. Not sophisticated at all.

5 (20m 14s):
And that's also kind of the, the gist of the government's case.

1 (20m 20s):
What do you know about what Sam Bankman Free's defense is gonna be?

5 (20m 25s):
I think his defense will likely be kind of similar to that 11 hour defense he gave me in The Bahamas. He's gonna have to make the case that he didn't know what was going on. He can't even really deny that Alameda had access to the customer money and spent it on other things. Gambled it away. There it is. You can't deny what happened. He's gotta say that either that was somehow permitted or that it happened without his knowledge or without his permission. So

1 (20m 57s):
It's gonna be Sam pointing the finger at his business partner slash ex-girlfriend and it's gonna be his business partner slash ex-girlfriend pointing the finger at Sam.

5 (21m 8s):
Yes. And in the runup to the trial, Sam actually was jailed for leaking his ex-girlfriend's diaries to the New York Times.

1 (21m 20s):
Classy.

5 (21m 21s):
Yeah, the the reason is not that there's some law against leaking diaries, although that's not very nice. It's that the judge decided that this was an attempt to intimidate and discredit a potential witness by leaking the diaries. Sam was sending a message to other witnesses that if they testified against him, maybe he would release embarrassing material on them. And the selections that were published by the Times created this image that Caroline was in over her head. She wasn't able to run Alameda effectively. And Sam's own diaries have been leaked in the New York Times.

5 (22m 2s):
These were written mostly while he was on house arrest and he's making all kinds of efforts to justify himself. One of the things he wrote about Caroline was

14 (22m 14s):
She continually avoided talking about risk management, dodging my suggestions until it was too late. Every time that I reached out with suggestions, it just made her feel worse. I'm sure that being exs didn't help.

5 (22m 27s):
To me this suggests that he's gonna say, I told her there was something was up with Alameda and to take care of it. I was so distracted by being, you know, a billionaire celebrity on top of the world that I wasn't really paying attention. And it's her fault that Alameda collapsed. And I was not aware that Alameda was taking out these huge loans from customer funds. Not

1 (22m 53s):
Looking good for Sam Bankman Fried. What happens if he's found guilty? Presumably prison.

5 (22m 59s):
Yes. And because the financial losses were so great, his sentence could be quite long, like decades in prison. What

1 (23m 6s):
About all the people around him? What about these friends of his who are testifying against him?

5 (23m 11s):
These friends who are testifying against him, they've pleaded guilty to serious crimes. Crimes. They're likely all facing years in prison too.

1 (23m 20s):
Damn. In some way is, is is Crypto going down with Sam Bankman Freed and FTX and Alameda and all his buddies? Or does this stop at FTX in Alameda

5 (23m 36s):
For my book, I spent two years traveled all over the world trying to answer this question of why are all these coins going up and up and what are they good for anyway? And what I found was that if they're good for one thing, it's gambling. And now Sam's discredited that by running a giant fraud at what people believe to be the best Crypto Casino FTX. So it's really hard for me to imagine that a whole new crop of people are gonna send in billions of dollars to some new Crypto app to bet on some new version of Dogecoin.

5 (24m 17s):
I just really can't see it.

1 (24m 22s):
Zeke Fox, his book is number go up.

5 (24m 26s):
I was pleased to see Amazon made number go up and editors pick in the history section. I think that's completely appropriate.

1 (24m 37s):
Our show today was produced by Amanda Lewellen and edited by Amina Al. We were fact-checked by Serena Solin and Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd full Disclosure. When Sam Bankman Freed was on top of the world giving all of his money away, he gave some of his money to v's. Future. Perfect. The project he was funding is now on pause. Does is today. Explain.