0 (1s):
Hello, Vox listeners. My name is Erin Lamor and I'm one of the hosts of the long-form podcast, the newest edition Devoxx and the Vox media podcast network. We've been doing the show for over nine years. We've gotten to talk to people like George Saunders, Terry Gross, Tallahassee coats, and really tried to explore what it means to be a writer or a journalist today in 2021. We're also expanding to feature documentarians, podcasters, whoever we find interesting. So you can catch up on long-form now at vox.com/long form or in the podcast app of your choice.

1 (54s):
I'm Patrick Oppmann, I'm in Havana right now where I'm based as a CNN's international correspondent and Havana bureau chief. Okay. And

2 (1m 2s):
Patrick, we've had a lot of trouble connecting with you this morning. I don't often connect with people and Havana. So tell me, is this always how hard it is or is this because of these protests that are going on in Cuba this week?

1 (1m 14s):
You know, I arrived for nine years ago when we were in the internet wilderness then, and you know, I'd go to my office and I was the only place and I had any kind of email and then like that. And the internet growth has really been one of the major stories here over the years. And after, after the Obama opening, they opened up to the internet here and in the last couple years, everyone is online and all the time, I always say it's kind of sad because everyone's looking at their phone now and the, they didn't before, but that's, you know, it's progress fine. And since Sunday night we have gone back to the, the dark ages, the Cuban government, they just took down the internet, which made it very hard for us to report.

1 (1m 55s):
And now they're kind of selectively making it impossible to access apps. But what the goal of course is to try to keep for

2 (2m 5s):
The protest from taking place. Okay, well, I'm glad this is working now. So let's, let's just talk about these protests while we have you, how did these protests in Cuba get started

3 (2m 16s):
This week? <inaudible>

1 (2m 21s):
So it was on a Sunday. It was not something we would call. It was not something lead by the Island's opposition movement, which is, which is, you know, not had a big impact. Oh, over the years, in terms of getting up out P pulling on a large scale, like we saw what happened was, and a small city, large town, about 45 minutes from Havana, San Antonio to the people. There were very upset because for six days they having power outages every day with the Galapagos here. And it's probably Cubans favorite part of the economic crisis.

1 (3m 2s):
There they're living as the power goes out, it's the summertime and Cuba, it stifling hot and you go outside in the night to sleep and you get eaten by mosquitoes. So a lot of people not download the rights of people and a certain point, just walk the other doors and started calling and really the local government to do something about it. And, and this is not unprecedented in Cuba, but usually when you have, and this happens, you hear about a couple of days later, it'd be an urban legend. Oh, did you hear the town? And they got really upset this time. It was livestream. And what happened unlikely in the past, where word would slowly spread about.

1 (3m 42s):
And one town where they'd had enough is that town and, and other cities in neighborhoods were, they were sick, have the current situation and, and problems. And everyone here is saying, well, they said, we're going to do the same thing. And they took in the streets and I'm watching all of this unfold. And it was just like a domino effect. <inaudible> I went to the ones here in Nevada and I had never seen anything like it.

1 (4m 23s):
And it was really something I've never witnessed the nine years of living in Cuba and something I frankly, never thought I would see

2 (4m 29s):
Has anything like this ever happened since the Cuban revolution in the 1950s,

1 (4m 35s):
No, there have been protests that there is a group of active tonight position who tried you blow over the protests. And, and they usually fail because the government very good at knowing who's going to go out and protest and stopping them from leaving their, their homes. Previous times, you know, when there's going to be small protests, they will take down the, the internet and the part of the city where that's going to take place. There's never been a protest with thousands of people. Mostly regular people have decided to go out and call for a change. And it says a lot about what's what's different now in terms of a technology and, and people being connected to the outside world.

1 (5m 15s):
It also says a lot about how terrible the situation has gotten from for many Cubans, just in the last couple of years, for me to see Cubans in front of police saying part three of you though, which is the, the, the new kinds of Anthem for the fur change, which means fatherland and life unlike fatherland or depths, which is when the Fidel Castro's saying to the end of their speeches, by saying that to have people saying, I want the president out, I've never seen people do that here as openly and as fearlessly as they've done it over the last several days.

2 (5m 57s):
And there's like a song to write that goes with it. <inaudible>

1 (6m 10s):
Yeah. So this is done by a number of artists and a group called <inaudible>, which was like, it was like the, the, the most popular Cuban group here And really galvanized people here. It talks about the film's. The revolution talks about the frustrations with people and the song, you know, you get in trouble for playing it too loudly, or you get in trouble. If you say pottery Ivy, the, and it's been one of the things that led up to this,

2 (6m 49s):
Tell me how the government's responding.

1 (6m 51s):
Other governments cracked down very, very hard that, that, that is the main response. They've not just cut the internet, but they've gone looking for people who were involved in the protest to, to arrest him. And, and some people have been very badly hurt. We know one person has been killed. There may be more, you know, the president on Sunday night said he was given the order to combat to the supporters of the river in the

4 (7m 16s):
<inaudible> <inaudible>. I told her <inaudible> <inaudible> I guess <inaudible> <inaudible> <inaudible>.

1 (7m 32s):
So you had police in riot gear, which we've never really seen here before. They've sent out special forces and they've sent out people were just what they called rapid response brigades, which are just a group of very hard line government supporters together for revolutionary Cubans. And they give them some Batts and they send them into the street to break up the protests in a pretty ugly way. And so that is one of the way they've taken back control now. And I think protests have been pretty much extinguished at this point.

2 (8m 4s):
Does that mean that whatever was happening in Cuba this week is now over

1 (8m 10s):
Neutral because the underlying conditions are still there. The, the president of Cuba came out on Wednesday night and made one small concession, which is people coming in to the island now will not have to pay taxes on foods and medicines and other items they bring for their families or for themselves. And that was, you know, a pretty, a pretty hated measure here. The government has had him for years and that's a concession, is it enough? No, it's not enough. And that's not going to put the, the, the outrage back in the bottle. But clearly the government is, is looking at what do we need to do the lower, the temperature. People are much angrier than we realized.

1 (8m 52s):
And what do we do to try to get some of that anger, dissipated. I'm not sure what it is they can do because the government is broke. And, and a lot of it is been caused by the pandemic. The, the way this island has been really, really hard hit by the pandemic. There's no tourism, which is one of the big income generators. And as well, the Trump administration put in some of the toughest sanctions and decades, and, and those sanctions have been left in place so far by the Biden administration. So they've absolutely had an impact. And then last but not least is, is just the fact that the government has not wanted to open up is not wanting to let people grow their businesses.

1 (9m 35s):
It's not the farmers really cultivate their land, grow enough food for the island. People here are very frustrated with the slow pace of reforms. A lot of people who I know have been here for, for year, he came back from living abroad thought. There was a moment where they could help their country become a different place. Now they want to leave. They're there, they're throwing in the towel. They don't think there's a future here for them anymore. I think

2 (10m 0s):
A lot of people see these protests and they want to think, oh, communism's on the brink of failing in Cuba, but you're telling us that the, the, the protests are now over. People are mad at the government because of their own economic hardship. Does this mean something for, for communism in Cuba, or is this just sort of an airing of grievances in a particular moment?

1 (10m 25s):
I think in something that's historic that we've never seen here before, they kind of damages the facade, the government presented that they're all knowing they've never had protests. There's no police brutality in Cuba. And I think people have seen that they can do it and, and perhaps they could do it again. You know, we've seen in other countries that, that kind of cracking down on people doesn't make those problems go away. It usually would just makes things more bitter and more violent. But what it perhaps could do is, is because the government here to speed up performs and open up more, which is something they've resisted doing for a long time. And, and maybe finally gets the Biden administration engaged with.

1 (11m 7s):
But the idea that this is kind of a, you know, an Arab spring in Cuba, or a moment where people were going to take two, the Streetz and force the government out, we're not there. This is a government that there were all these they're still going on and rounding people up by the hundreds. I think it's safe to say, and they'll probably be, people will go to jail for, for, for some time, just for being involved in a protest, maybe was just for filming a protest or supporting a protest. No, the government they're doing what they can to squash it realizes it's just how tough it is to be a Cuban.

1 (11m 48s):
You go to the market at 5:00 AM. When the market opens up at 10:00 AM to wait the light you get inside. And there's nothing to buy. You know, they're, what's up groups now about where you can find eggs or cooking oil to travel around the, and when there's a shortage of gasoline, virtually impossible, and the Trump administration cut off remittances. So people are unable to get money from relatives now, and it is incredibly frustrating for people. And then you add on top of that, you know, electricity shortage Jews, a government that charges you a ton of money to get out the passport, or to get some papers.

1 (12m 32s):
And people really have a bitter taste in their mouth, but it's also important to point out that there's no leadership behind this movement. As of yet, this is something that's very organic, that happened independent of, of kind of the, the, the people who were the regular opposition here. But what it's shown the government to the world is that there are thousands of people, perhaps 10 thousands that want to change the do not accept the government's excuses, that it's all about the U S and U S they're blaming their government. And that's something we've never seen here before.

2 (13m 31s):
Support for the surety comes from calm, but namely calm for business. They want to help businesses provide their employees with the consistent mental health resources they deserve. They've got an expansive library of breathtaking breaks, guided meditation, low-fi music and, and hundreds of stories to lull you to sleep. Every night, businesses can help their employees stress less and rest better with calm, calm, even has programs specifically designed for the workplace like the aptly named mindfulness at work series. Check out that series. Y'all right now, calm is offering a free wellbeing ebook for HR and benefit leaders.

2 (14m 16s):
And one month free after you attend a free demo. When you go to calm.com/ Explained one of the greatest websites of all time, calm.com/ Explained, get started today, C a L m.com/ Explained again, a free wellbeing ebook, and one month free after attending a free demo. When you go to calm.com/s right, and it comes from Wondery in the spirits industry, thats alcohol and not Becardy and Pernod Ricard own nearly all of the biggest brands, grey goose Patrona absolute, and the all new season of business wars Becardy vs Pernod Ricard.

2 (15m 5s):
The, the show looks at how both companies survived BOR and prohibition became synonymous with the products they made and grew into international corporations. It's a story about a family feud that was sparked by one particular rum brand of Bana club. It's a, would be crown Juul for both families, the special sauce, but not without controversy from the moment Fidel Castro's forces seas, the family owned distillery, its owner fled to America with nothing but the secret recipe. And he was ready to sell it to the highest bidder. It's a spirited tale of family, businesses and tradition listened to the business, whores the Carney versus Pernod on apple podcasts, Amazon music, or you can listen one week early and ad-free by joining one re plus, and the wondering app, wondering you feel the story, you know, about the Cuban revolution.

2 (16m 10s):
You've seen the chain without our t-shirts. You've heard about Kennedy in the bay of pigs, but we reached out to Lillian Garah at the university of Florida to understand what the Cuban people wanted out of it.

5 (16m 21s):
People were expecting a more egalitarian society. They were not expecting communism. And it took a long time for Cubans. Even the majority had supported the changes and were unconditional in their support for the government to really recognize what that meant. And what we had from 1961 to 1991 was a revolutionary regime that gave people a certain degree of, of social safety net and basic needs were met. They got free healthcare and they got free education, but in return, total loyalty was expected. There were all kinds of mechanisms by which people's loyalty was policed. And a lot of the benefits of socialism were only there because the Soviets provided about $4.4 billion a year in aid directly to Cuba between 1972 and 19 88, 19 91 to the present is a completely different story.

5 (17m 14s):
And tell me that story in 1991, the union pretty much collapsed. And so as a result, Cuba lost entirely its trading partner and had nobody to sell its sugar to its money was worthless. And the communist party took radical steps, which were shocked to everybody whereby they reverse their position that they had held for 30 years in which, you know, foreign investors and foreign investment and capitalism itself were demonized by the, and they'd simply adopted those things. I'm. So the government became the main joint partner in working with foreign investors to create tourism.

5 (18m 3s):
I hate the infrastructure for tourism too, you know, in some cases, rebuild hotels or entirely create new facilities. They also allowed for self-employment for the first time, since 1968, that was something scrapped at the end of the sixties. That reform in particular came with a lot of restrictions. The government to this day has and disabled the ability of entrepreneurs to really expand their businesses precisely because they were very good at it. Cuban citizens showed that with their little restaurants and their bed and breakfast, they could out-compete any government owned facility with tourism.

5 (18m 45s):
And, and that meant that the state saw them as an enemy that has created extraordinary degrees of tension. Because in, you know, coupled with the, the rise of the entrepreneurial class, you had a lot of people who suddenly the majority of Cubans who suddenly had access to information from the outside world,

6 (19m 3s):
Seeing a Cuban speaking on his cell phone is still an unusual site. And the streets of LA Habana two months ago, Shubin's were allowed for the very first time to own a cell phone

5 (19m 14s):
Shortly after that. And they became legal for Cubans to have internet access in their homes. And then Obama's administration negotiated the right of Cubans to have free wifi provided to them by the government in the Plaza's and Park's, and Cuba was part of the negotiations for normalizing relations.

7 (19m 31s):
And the president Castro Cuba's set a goal of bringing Cubans online. And we want to help

5 (19m 36s):
Is meant that Cubans have had, and increasing desire and thirst for greater freedom.

2 (19m 43s):
The U S Cuba relationship is obviously of huge significance here, but, but specifically the U S embargo on Cuba. Could you explain how it works?

5 (19m 53s):
Yes. So it was very different in the sixties and seventies and eighties than it was in the nineties. And that was because of the United States was able to exercise dominion over Latin American countries. Latin American countries really went along with it. So there was a, something of a unilateral trade embargo against Cuba. Fidel Castro claimed that by the 1980s, that there had been Bargo did not affect you at all, because they were completely United to the trading block of the Soviet union after 1972, the

7 (20m 23s):
Idea that we have any needs to trade with the United States should be totally eradicated. Everything we have done for the 26 years, we have done it without trade with the United States, and our future has been conceived without trade with the United States. Actually, the only way that was an importance

5 (20m 48s):
In the discourse have the political leadership in the nineties, which is rather ironic. Cause that's when most Latin American countries were free, have the right wing governments or dictatorships one by one, you know, in the late eighties and early nineties, as these countries democratize themselves, they became trading partners for Cuba, all of the European countries in the nineties when the communist party opened and their economy to the foreign investment, were there, you know, from the Dutch to the Canadians, I mean the Canadians aren't European, but certainly everybody was there except for the American American companies. And, and they're still there. The Brazilian companies, you name it. So Cuba has a lot of partners.

5 (21m 28s):
It's just that the state controls that trade and no small time, you no individual Cuban or association of Cubans is allowed to engage in that kind of activity themselves. They're not even allowed to get loans from banks and that's not anything to do with the U S government. That's a communist party rule. I think that they, the phrase internal embargo, which is always used in Cuba as a way to refute the government's official narrative, you know, and, and <inaudible>, and 10 are the internal blockade. That's very relevant because it is part of the daily, every day, popular culture and discourse with which Cubans Feit, the regime's version of reality.

2 (22m 10s):
Do you think supporting the Cuban people means supporting the end of communism in Cuba? Or do you think the Cuban people would hold on to some of the concepts and sort of foundations of communist Cuba? Well,

5 (22m 24s):
I think that supporting them means letting them speak for themselves. And there is a diversity of voices that has not been allowed to be heard if we just stepped out of the way and I'm, and allow this to take form whatever form it takes, Cubans will, will find their leaders. They have right now, you know, millions of people and Cuba who are highly educated and who are under the age of 35, it's a third of the population. And they themselves are the faces that we're seeing on the streets, the debates that are happening in the household and that are now on the streets are a very healthy thing.

5 (23m 7s):
And it has been illegal to debate. I mean, not even does the national assembly debate anything except perhaps behind closed doors and, you know, Cuban, Cuban citizens are not even privy to any debate that takes place in the council of state. You know, so they, that they are having this debate, you know, I'm on the streets, I think just among themselves, I'm not talking about the repressors and the security forces, the debate among the Cubans, you know, what is it we were going to say to which protests are we going to go? I mean, that is extraordinary. And, and they need to be able to do this for themselves.

2 (23m 45s):
And do you think that debate leads, does it lead to some sort of capitalist Cuba or, or does it, does it lead to a freer sort of socialist Cuba? Do we have any idea? Oh,

5 (23m 57s):
I think we do Cubans have, you know, at every turn wanted to take advantage of the capitalist economy in Cuba, Cubans are extremely entrepreneurial and there are a lot of them that have made some great wealth out of the opportunity to sell their creativity. That includes artists, musicians, writers. I think that they would like to see a reinvestment in the infrastructure of society. They want to see the, the, the, the, the fantasy of, of a good public health system actually become a reality because hospitals are a nightmare. The public health system is a nightmare. Cubans have had to rely on their relatives to send things like antibiotics, and that it wasn't yesterday.

5 (24m 37s):
That's been for the last 25 years. That's been the case and longer up to 30 years, depending on where you live. So the situation is that the story of socialism was beautiful until 1991. And, and, and, and after that, it has been a myth complete myth or a fantasy that, that people who live there were, were visited repeatedly and stayed there. No, we know what the reality of this is So this is why the Cubans are expressing this kind of collective outrage, because they are very aware in ways that we are not of how the reality of the state is more a story, a set of lies than it is a truth.

2 (25m 30s):
Lillian gadda is a professor of Cuban and Caribbean history at the university of Florida. I'm Sean Rama's for him. This is today Explained