3 (1s):
From director Jay roach and writer Paul redneck comes Coastal Elites a socially distant satire and five comedic confessions about coping with the new abnormal see all new. 75-minute special Stars Bette Midler Kaitlyn Dever Dan Levy, Sarah Paulson and Issa Rae as five characters breaking down and breaking through as they grapple with culture politics and the pandemic Coastal Elites premieres Saturday, September 12th at 8 p.m. On HBO and streaming on a Bo Max

4 (44s):
It explains I'm Sean Rama's forum and over the past six months now of everyone being in some state of quarantine or lockdown. We've talked a lot about how that's affecting our society our economy our cities our buildings. Our relationships are our families. Our psyches but we haven't talked about one essential component and that is our love lives. But today explained reporter producer Halima Shah has been focused on just that thing for the past few weeks Halima. What have you discovered? Well covid-19 has basically made an already awkward gain more awkward and there is a lot of sadness when it comes to relationships during the pandemic for example a lot of people.

4 (1m 33s):
People who might have been in the early stages of a relationship are finding that it's fizzling out and a lot of people who were considering divorce or maybe splitting up are basically having to cohabit with the people. They were planning on leaving that's rough. But and there is a big but here oh good. Yeah. There's a silver lining. I was about to cry. We don't want people to cry anymore. We make them cry plenty on this show and the silver lining in this case is that Some people are finding that the pandemic and the lockdown is helping them Advance their relationships cool. So are we going to hear from some couples or what? We're going to hear from some couples.

4 (2m 14s):
We're going to hear from young people living in cities who are in their 20s and 30s and we're also going to hear from people who are facilitating. These relationships are going to hear from matchmakers assort, like cupid. We're gonna hear from the digital version of cupid. We are going to hear from one of the leaders of bumble cool. All Right Where Do We Begin we begin with 24 year old Sierra,

2 (2m 38s):
I'm from Chicago I live in DC I identify as queer I'm black I'm a woman I like scary movies and I knit I asked her if that's what her Tinder profile said if you wanted I could probably pull up exactly what it said Sierra and I met at a

4 (2m 58s):
park by the way reporting like dating during a pandemic often takes place.

2 (3m 3s):
Doors and six feet apart. Okay, here it is. So my profile says always aiming to find the perfect first date with like the rock on hands Big Nerd and huge extrovert. I love meeting new people and trying new things more than anything. Shy City

4 (3m 19s):
tall Sierra was on Tinder before the pandemic started and she has a pretty good response rate the people she likes tend to

3 (3m 26s):
like her back, but

4 (3m 27s):
after the pandemic started Sierra was browsing Tinder and she swiped right on one woman. Whoo-hoo. She wasn't sure would be a

2 (3m 35s):
match Rachel. She also probably still has it tender up here. It is just like excellent pictures of her. It's incredibly intimidating because that's and that's the Bayou her style. I would say is like Like simple upscale kind of chic she has a couple of photos and swimsuits. She has a few photos in suits suits. She looks like a model. But yeah, I remember just being like, oh, wow, that's not gonna happen. But like she's really hot and then swiping and we instant mash it like there was one problem though, Sierra and Rachel from Tinder matched in

4 (4m 20s):
March just as Washington DC's shut down because of the pandemic

2 (4m 25s):
on top of that

4 (4m 26s):
Sierra lives in a Group house with five other roommates who all agreed to strict social distancing rules.

2 (4m 32s):
We have to wear a mask whenever we're out of the house for the first month of quarantine. We were only going on like night walks. That's the only time we were leaving the house is like to go to the grocery store and go on night walks as a group can't go in anyone else's home. It was all very just like precautionary and because I was living in a group house where I wasn't only in charge of my own health. I didn't feel comfortable like breaking that since it was agreed upon. So I asked Sierra what she was looking for on Tinder

4 (5m 1s):
someone to secretly Break The Rules

2 (5m 2s):
with a pen pal. Yeah, like a hot romantic fish pen pal and that would end at the end of quarantine. I had just gotten out of a relationship and like November and I was very like it is finally time for me Sierra to be intentional about Being by myself. So I was not trying to start dating anybody. I had like I was wiping on Tinder a lot because I was bored and I was like, oh, I'll just like, you know snatch up a few quarantine booze like have people to talk to

4 (5m 33s):
there are plenty of people in their 20s who will tell you the same thing being in lockdown is boring, especially if you're single that's Nikki Dells and arrows experience. She lives halfway across the country in Chicago with one roommate before covid.

3 (5m 51s):
And still through covid I have been single I have been on the apps every once in a while intermittently, but I never stay on them for too long because I don't love them. So then I sort of just try to meet people who are friends of friends or doing activities that I like to do in the wild.

4 (6m 12s):
Her natural habitats are bars baseball games comedy shows and all of them are off the table in the covid era so to date while Social distancing in 2020 Nikki found herself connecting with the men of 2019.

3 (6m 26s):
Yes. Yes. There have only been two guys. I've hooked up with this year and they were both people that I met in the fall

4 (6m 34s):
but Nikki is being cautious and not just because of covid-19 what

3 (6m 38s):
we've been seeing in names and in social media for the last few months. Is that The Men Who come out of the woodwork from 2019. They don't have great intentions, you know, they're just trying to see if you'll break quarantine for them because they're just like fuck boys who can't meet anybody new. So there are going through the old

4 (6m 58s):
books that said Nikki's seen an upside to dating during covid-19 the pandemic kind of acts like a filter and

3 (7m 6s):
weeding out people who aren't taking this seriously, like who aren't wearing masks who are traveling all over the place and hanging out in large crowds, and I'm like if you don't Seriously don't have a chat about when you were tested or what your exposure looked like. Then you can't break quarantine with

4 (7m 21s):
me. The filter has kind of worked for Nikki the first guy. She saw during quarantine was open about where he went his roommates activity and he discussed getting tested in the

3 (7m 32s):
case of another guy on social media. He had been like talking shit about Trump's response to covid and I was like, okay, he must be taking it seriously and then he told me he lived with his grandparents and had been I stood like a week

4 (7m 46s):
prior and this brings us to the reason a lot of people are dating during a pandemic

2 (7m 51s):
sex one survey found that more than half of young

4 (7m 59s):
adults and Chicago

3 (8m 1s):
broke quarantine to have a

2 (8m 2s):
sexual encounter same with a quarter of people in LA and nearly a fifth and New York.

4 (8m 9s):
Public Health Department's know this and since kissing through a mask or sex without breathing seemed impossible. Local Health departments are releasing guidelines for safe sex during covid-19.

2 (8m 21s):
Common advice is your

4 (8m 25s):
safest sex partner is yourself. Your next safest is someone who lives with you and if you want sex with someone outside of your household have as few Partners as possible also discuss covid-19 as you would any other ER safe sex topics and do it beforehand for Nikki taking those precautions feels like the smartest way to continue dating right

3 (8m 48s):
now. You are trying your best to have a life that you enjoy but also think of others, so maybe that's like just my personal justification, but I think it has been healthy for me to find some Middle Ground.

4 (9m 14s):
Back in DC people like Sierra who live in big group houses have to take extra caution. If they want to go out with anyone during the pandemic. She and Rachel from Tinder were texting back and forth and seeing each other virtually the to wanted to be more than pandemic pen pals, but Sierra had some strict house rules to consider. So for the first in-person date, they sat six feet apart at a park near Georgetown University. It was

2 (9m 43s):
George Hanson. Vision day she found out later on our date, but she had graduated a couple hours before a date. I think we both brought like beers and like traded and this was back when I was still like sanitizing every single thing. So just yeah, we

4 (9m 56s):
just sat in the park and talked for three hours. Sierra didn't tell her housemates about her date or the next one or the one after that. But she says those dates were all socially distant.

2 (10m 8s):
It reminds me of like courtship my parents when they met were like in this very like devout Christian church, and you weren't allowed to date you courted and so you didn't touch each other. So then I

4 (10m 18s):
asked Sierra the obvious question. When did you two finally touch

2 (10m 23s):
it was error it was and Malcolm X Park if the huge part there's like an upstairs and a downstairs. So like a flat part top and then stairs that lead down to kind of like he'll like areas or people have picnics we both brought blankets and Wine and Food and just kind of like sat and talked. We got quite drunk in the park, which was nice. This is a beautiful day. It was it was drum circle Sunday. So, you know, we could still hear the drum. It was very like romantic for like a city and like eyes like black queer room while it like an African drum beat circle is happening up top.

2 (11m 8s):
Cute being super careful around me because she didn't want me to get in trouble with my roommate. But my roommates were here this I was sitting next to her and I like had my legs over her legs. We just kind of like gently brushed legs and touched each other's hand. And I wasn't really allowed to touch anybody else. So like it was such a huge deal.

3 (11m 36s):
And just like that

2 (11m 37s):
Sierra and Rachel from Tinder broke the covid rules.

3 (11m 42s):
It didn't go any further

4 (11m 43s):
that day and right after they touched Sierra used her hand sanitizer, but the date went well Sierra and Rachel from Tinder wanted to keep seeing each other and eventually become intimate. So Sierra and her housemate set up new travel and sex rules.

2 (12m 0s):
The sex rules were once you have a sexual encounter like you wear masks in the house for two weeks and you get tested you kind of quarantine yourself. You just wear a mask. You have your own set of dishes it cannot Maybe one person so it was a very like choose carefully type of situation. So Sierra kept seeing Rachel from Tinder,

4 (12m 19s):
they both got tested for covid-19. They stayed home as much as possible

3 (12m 24s):
and they only met at Rachel's place because she lived alone.

4 (12m 29s):
Wait, so holy Moses is just like a booty call between Sierra and Rachel what happens to their relationship

2 (12m 35s):
you will find out what happens to their relationship after the break.

3 (12m 48s):
From director Jay roach and writer Paul Reddick comes Coastal Elites a socially distance satire and five comedic confessions about coping with the new abnormal the all-new 75-minute special Stars, Emmy Grammy and Tony winner Bette Midler Golden Globe nominee Kaitlyn Dever Emmy nominee Dan Levy, Emmy and Golden Globe winner, Sarah Paulson and Emmy and Golden Globe nominee Issa Rae has five characters breaking down and breaking through as they grapple with. Our politics and the pandemic when the shutdown force is these distinct and impassioned people with varying points of view across the United States to cope and isolation. They react with frustration hilarity and introspection Coastal Elites premieres Saturday, September 12th at 8 p.m.

3 (13m 34s):
On HBO and streaming on HBO map.

4 (13m 45s):
Okay, he'll be my we've heard from Sierra. We've heard from Nikki. Is it time to hear from Cupid or self? Yeah, it's time to hear from multiple Cupid's actually because for months now States across the country have ordered people to social distance. And if you're trying to date those rules are going to make it really challenging to meet anyone in person. So this is where the digital matchmakers come in.

3 (14m 10s):
Even though people are staying home. They're still looking for love since the pandemic began dating apps have seen an uptick in use Bumble has seen a 26% increase in messages now on Tinder. There's been an increase in the number of conversations that are taking place and has also seen an uptick as much as 30% increase in messages in March dating apps like Bumble and the league are seen an increase in activity as people say home to practice physical distancing apps are adapting to The New

4 (14m 38s):
Normal of dating. Mumbles vice president of strategy brief video. She said the app rolled out new features to help users. Stay safe during the pandemic.

3 (14m 48s):
We launched a feature called the virtual dating badge and you know, what they're able to do basically is use that badge to not only indicate. Hey, I am comfortable going on the virtual date a socially distance date or socially distance date with a mask on but then they're also able to filter based off of their preferences. And so they can find other users who are kind of in the same risk tolerance. If you will as they are just so that everyone can feel safe and comfortable. It's a great time to own a

4 (15m 22s):
dating app match Group which owns match Tinder and OkCupid recently released its second quarter earnings report. It shows more people are using the app since covid-19 started. We actually

3 (15m 34s):
saw an increase to nearly 70% in voice calls and video chat. That's right around the time that covid was declared a national emergency back in

2 (15m 45s):
March to the

3 (15m 46s):
first week of May. We also saw that these calls were actually on average 30 minutes long, which if you think about

4 (15m 53s):
it, that's a pretty decent first virtual

3 (15m 56s):
date briefly sees it as a sign that users are interested in more than messaging. She says they want to be more vulnerable

4 (16m 3s):
with each other talk for a longer period before meeting but while

2 (16m 7s):
covid-19 is Flowing some relationship.

4 (16m 10s):
Down it's speeding others up. Josh and I were together I should know this take for example, Josh and JC. We started dating in what 2010 and we were engaged in 2019, but did we have a date set? Maybe in our heads we did? Yeah, I don't think we discussed it really outside of hey, we're engaged now what Josh and JC talk to me about their amorphous wedding plans from their In Madison, Wisconsin where JC works at a public radio station that offers health insurance and where Josh is transitioning out of a career in Academia, which does not come with health insurance.

4 (16m 57s):
I was already living kind of precarious life in Academia and bouncing around from a few different institutions and I got really sick really randomly and it was pneumonia but like for about four or five days Sighs I like couldn't get out of bed. And it was it was really scary that was in mid-november a few months later the u.s. Started seeing its first cases of community spread of covid-19. Once the pandemic kind of became this real thing. I had already had a taste of what life a without health insurance would be like, but then also be without the sort of contract Jewel protections you get with when someone is like your emergency contact or Go to person or likes whatever someone you can put in your will so that was like one prompt.

4 (17m 50s):
I think I think our combined experience is in the fall with the pneumonia and hearing that it was a respiratory thing was like, hey, we don't really want to fuck with this being at you know urgent care with Josh not being sure if they were going to let me go back with him at times that I didn't have, you know, the same rights, as you know, people

2 (18m 12s):
who are married

4 (18m 14s):
I am your emergency. See contact, but that if anything had happened in an emergency room, we weren't sure if they would even be in touch with me. So in January the two got a marriage license.

2 (18m 29s):
And in March a day before the

4 (18m 31s):
marriage license

2 (18m 32s):
expired JC

4 (18m 34s):
and Josh got married at a courthouse in New York. We were like nicest version of whatever we had packed like probably what I was going to wear it. So my interview is what I

2 (18m 41s):
wore I wore a pair of olive colored pleated pants and a turtleneck and the wedding went something like this. Do you

4 (18m 53s):
Joshua take this woman to be your wife?

2 (18m 55s):
Yeah, I do blah blah blah and you JC. Do you do the same thing? Yeah, I do. Okay you're done. Bye. It was rushed but it was still really charming

4 (19m 11s):
and weird and like Whimsical which actually added to like some of the Romantic part

2 (19m 17s):
of it. Covid really did Force the hand of a lot of people either in really pushing up their timeline and getting married sooner rather than later or for people who have had to stop their planning all together because so much is up in the air. It's just a weird time.

4 (19m 44s):
A weird frustrating and sometimes romantic time especially for people like Sierra and Rachel from Tinder. They're still seeing each other

2 (19m 53s):
five months after they both swiped right? We are dating she's my girlfriend and it was wild to me that like, I fully like created and Foster door relationship. We didn't even hang out in person for like two months and we didn't touch for three months. Sierra thinks the pandemic created a

4 (20m 13s):
unique

2 (20m 13s):
Set of circumstances that brought the two together. I mean like we're both like LGBT and so we were going to a lot of the same bars and we're both really tall people and we're both black women and both of us always say like it's wild that I never met you out. We've even date stamped certain days where we knew we were both at the same bar and like we probably were there within 15 minutes of each other and just never ran into each other or saw each other. I

4 (20m 38s):
asked if they drop the l-bomb

2 (20m 40s):
yet. We have study hour because I love her. And we both agreed that like we probably wouldn't

4 (20m 53s):
have dated or even spent like maybe more

2 (20m 55s):
than like one or two like dates or like hookups with each other had we not had to get to know each other for so long because I'm a very sex positive person. I don't know why taking that like aspect out fostered such a like interesting relationship with each other and like a good relationship, but it did so I think I learned a little bit more about like slowing down the somebody and like trying to delve really deep into like who they are as a person. I mean, I'm very in love and I wasn't expecting it. So that's kind of

4 (21m 24s):
fun.

3 (21m 31s):
When we set out to talk about love in the age of covid-19,

4 (21m 34s):
we asked our listeners to share their stories and we got a ton of messages probably more than the shows ever seen and it confirmed the suspicion that a lot of us here has the even though so much of our lives have been put on hold in 2020 love still finds a way be it a spouse a new boo

3 (21m 56s):
or a pandemic pen pal,

4 (21m 59s):
and if you're not trying to lock it down.

2 (22m 1s):
On in lockdown.

4 (22m 3s):
There's always the fuck boy from 2019. Halima shop, she's a reporter and a producer at today explained her story was edited by Gillian Weinberger and a theme Shapiro's the show's engineer. The rest of the today explain team includes Amna al-saadi moods 80 and no MM hassenfeld who contributes music to extra help this week from bird Pinkerton and Cecilia lay and major developments. This week will rejoin the team will was once our intern and now he's straight up producing the show. We're so glad you're back. We'll and know Big deal Golda Arthur joined our team this week to run the show.

4 (22m 43s):
We are most stoked to have you golden. Thanks for joining. Let's Kelly Nelson is still vaux's editorial director of podcasts and we still use a lot of the mysterious brake master cylinders music sincere. Thanks to all of you who generously and in some cases very candidly shared your stories of lockdown love. We laughed we cried we smooth what thinking about a spin-off to date. And to dates explained will let you know in the meantime today explained is part of the VOX media podcast Network.

3 (23m 25s):
From director Jay roach and writer Paul rabbit comes Coastal Elites a socially distance satire and five comedic confessions about coping with the new abnormal the all-new 75-minute special Stars, Emmy Grammy and Tony winner Bette Midler Golden Globe nominee Kaitlyn Dever Emmy nominee Dan Levy, Emmy and Golden Globe winner, Sarah Paulson and Emmy and Golden Globe nominee Issa Rae as five characters breaking down and breaking through as they grapple with. Her politics and the pandemic when the shutdown forces these distinct and impassioned people with varying points of view across the United States to cope and isolation. They react with frustration hilarity and introspection Coastal Elites premieres Saturday, September 12th at 8 p.m.

3 (24m 11s):
On HBO and streaming on HBO

2 (24m 14s):
Mac.