1 (2s):
His eyes are laser. He's getting his policies passed. He's lowering gas prices. He's dark, Brandon.

3 (14s):
We've all

1 (18s):
Where this dark Brandon Guy came from ahead on today. Display

2 (28s):
Sinister lasers in what dark brand United States find you

city.com (1m 0s):
Zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg

0 (1m 46s):
Explained

1 (1m 51s):
Matt Pfizer covers the white house for the Washington post. So we called him up to talk about a meme,

5 (1m 56s):
Correct. I can't say that I've seen that many memes of Joe Biden covering him for the past few years, but now he is known as dark Brandon in, in some of these memes.

1 (2m 6s):
And for those of our listening audience who do not spend a ton of time online, how do you spot a dark Brandon meme? How do you know you got the genuine article?

5 (2m 15s):
So a lot of times there are lasers coming out of Joe Biden's eyes. Sometimes there's pupils are covered up by bright lights. There are others where, you know, he's bearded or he has an eye patch think kind of Marvel comics style, Joe Biden, kind of seeming as this all powerful figure, familiar with the dark arts.

1 (2m 37s):
And what's it all supposed to mean? Is there some greater meaning here?

5 (2m 40s):
Yeah, I mean, it, it is in part supposed to sort of cast him as this all-knowing all-powerful figure who's able to do things in a way that he quite frankly, has not been part of his image as president

6 (2m 54s):
Gas prices hitting another all time high today, just 33% of Americans approve of the president's handling of the economy.

5 (3m 2s):
So it's kind of trying to tap into this idea of a swaggering figure. Who's able to end politics at his will, might foreign adversaries at his will.

7 (3m 15s):
Gas prices are dropping every day and he done blowed up one of the world's top terrorists. The internet has taken notice.

5 (3m 23s):
That's at least what it's trying to tap into, which as a political figure, it's not always been, you know, sort of his brand, these types of images or these types of characterizations.

1 (3m 33s):
Yeah. It feels a little farfetched because Joe Biden just seems like such a gaff prone. Granddaddy, where did this come from?

5 (3m 41s):
So there's really sort of two strands to it. Some of the illustrations have its origins in a Chinese illustrator, but sort of the true origins date a little bit after that to a rally a year or so ago in October of 2021 in Alabama at the Talladega super Speedway

8 (4m 2s):
Winter, oh my God, dad, we did it.

5 (4m 6s):
Let's go where there was a race. And there was a driver whose first name is Brandon and who is being interviewed after the race by a reporter.

8 (4m 16s):
Oh my God, this is just everything we've hoped and dreamed for.

5 (4m 21s):
And the crowd was chanting a derogatory message about Joe Biden, but the reporter thought that they were chanting. Let's

8 (4m 30s):
Go Brandon.

5 (4m 31s):
And so she asked him on live television about this chant of let's go Brandon, which was not what the crowd was chanting, but it became kind of a theme among Trump supporters in particular, who then adopted the phrase, let's go Brandon as a shorthand for an explicit message at Joe Biden.

9 (4m 52s):
If you look at what's going on with, with some of the big corporations with their woke agenda, when you look at the Biden, the brand administration in terms of what they're,

5 (5m 6s):
So that sort of took on a life of its own as sort of let's go Brandon as a chant that began to be embraced by Trump's supporters, but we would see them, you know, covering Joe Biden in the motorcade. There were signs of people holding up. Let's go, Brandon, you know, directed at Joe Biden himself in REITs where Biden goes to vacation at the boardwalk. There's t-shirts that say, let's go Brandon. So it began like to really be embraced and signify of sort of a vitriolic sentiment directed at Joe Biden. So that's where the Brandon aspect of the dark Brandon memes come from.

1 (5m 47s):
Okay. So let's go, Brandon is thriving in the conservative space. And then at some point liberals pick up on this dark brand thing to make it supportive of the president

5 (6m 1s):
Somewhat, although initially liberals are picking it up, not altogether supportive, they're picking it up in a, in a way to say, like, we wish that Joe Biden were strong. We wish that he had lasers coming out of his eyes and he could smite his enemies and overpower Joe mansion and Kristen cinema. And these Democrats who were blocking his agenda. And so it was kind of meant, like, not necessarily as a compliment, it was meant as like reimagining, you know, the democratic president as someone who could actually do things and could actually get things done. Let's remind

1 (6m 34s):
People what's going on with, with Biden policywise as the let's go, Brandon meme is gaining more circulation.

5 (6m 42s):
So when let's go, Brandon starts Biden is at one of the lower points of his presidency. The Afghanistan withdrawal had happened in August. There

10 (6m 51s):
Are scenes of panic and pandemonium, a couple airport today,

5 (6m 55s):
As legislation was stalling, Democrats were in fighting. This is a no, and Republicans are finding some success at turning Biden who had for much of his political career was not necessarily an offensive figure. He was not somebody that engendered lots of emotion either for or against, but let's go. Brandon seems to indicate a turn, particularly for Trump supporters, where there was growing animosity and even hatred toward the president that seemed to embody a shift and really put a weight on his approval ratings that he still is not fully recovered from.

1 (7m 32s):
And if I'm tracking this right, that's followed by some liberals starting to trade these dark Brandon memes almost in a self effacing way where, oh, we wish our guy could be this badass and not just this sort of fumbling president. And then that's followed by some actual Biden accomplishments. And then the dark brand and meme becomes more genuine. Do I have that

5 (7m 60s):
Right recently he's had some success. Biden is experiencing the most successful stretch probably of his presidency over the last few weeks. There's a legislation that was just passed called the inflation reduction act,

12 (8m 15s):
Democrats and president Joe Biden scoring a big win. The sweeping bill targets, healthcare energy and the climate

5 (8m 21s):
Crisis. Inflation numbers are holding steady gas prices are going down, but the area where the dark Brandon imagery really gains traction is after the killing of Al-Qaeda leader, Sahari, who was killed by a drone strike in Afghanistan,

11 (8m 38s):
You know, is that where he was bin Laden's leader. He was with him all the, the whole time. He was his number two, man, his deputy at the time, the terrorist attacked nine 11. He was deeply involved in the planning of nine 11. One of the most responsible for the attacks that murdered 2,977 people on American soil

5 (8m 60s):
For his supporters, like showed him as being able to authorize a killing in a foreign land and killing a foreign adversary as somebody who is powerful. And that gets into sort of the comic book style imagery of some of these memes.

11 (9m 14s):
We, we make it clear again tonight that no matter how long it takes, no matter where you hide, if you are a threat to our people, the United States will find you and take you out.

5 (9m 27s):
You, you know, there's sort of been week after week more positive news for Biden, which has coincided with the sort of dark Brandon swagger that the white house is adopting.

1 (9m 41s):
And speaking of the white house, it gets to the point where white house staffers are actually tweeting dark Brandon memes themselves, right?

5 (9m 48s):
Yeah. And from their official white house accounts, usually these accounts are touting jobs figures or, or the latest, you know, priorities. You're not used to seeing from official white house accounts, you know, images of the president of the United States with lasers coming out of his eyes. But that's kind of what they're now adopting kind of indicating the turn in fortunes that they themselves felt because for months has been pretty dismal at the white house. They haven't had a lot to sort of Crow about, and, and in this case they were sort of sending out these, these images from their official accounts in part, so that these go into the official archives of president Biden.

1 (10m 24s):
I don't wanna reign on the parade or anything here, but, but does any part of this feel a little, I don't know, Trumpy.

5 (10m 32s):
Yeah. And, and that's honestly like you're familiar with seeing Trump like this, right. And Trump himself, you know, from his POTUS account would tweet the images of him as kind of a WWE figure. And that's, what's sort of interesting here where, where Biden has not had that. Like he's not been like a digital media phenomenon at all during his career. And during his campaign. In fact, his campaign sort of took pride in ignoring Twitter and the Twitter conversation, right? This is totally new for, for Biden to have these images or to be cast as something else. Biden fan fiction has not been part of Biden lore in the past.

5 (11m 12s):
It's been the aviators, the ice cream,

1 (11m 15s):
The guy washing his trans am shirtless in the driveway.

5 (11m 18s):
Yeah. Onion style,

13 (11m 20s):
Vice president, Joe Biden has made an announcement that he will be releasing his secret service detail and replacing them with a squad of sexy female bodyguards

5 (11m 29s):
Or even Saturday night live when they parody him. It's like, you know, just a guy who's smiling. You know, they have his teeth, you know, bright white teeth.

14 (11m 37s):
I understand Putin. I understand war, but there's one thing I don't understand

5 (11m 44s):
Computer. So it's not been a part of his lore to have people drawing him and, and illustrating him in these settings or putting him in a movie poster.

1 (11m 55s):
I guess it's an arguably a boon to him on, on places like Twitter. But unfortunately, most Americans aren't hanging out there. Does this actually bode well for his, I don't know, reelection prospects dare I

5 (12m 7s):
Say it depends. I mean, it, it does show like a passion for Biden that he's often lacked having people sort of interested in, in having him in memes. On the other hand, like, does this cut against who he actually is? The day that we wrote the article, like he also struggled to put his jacket on outside of a helicopter and Jill Biden. The first lady had to help. He's still like kind of a figure who can struggle. You know, he, he's still the GAFE prone figure that we've always known and you can see it's just that there is a new sort of element. And, and I think what could change his fortunes potentially is what this represents.

5 (12m 57s):
Well, it does represent Biden, being more successful and having a, a good few weeks, if that lasts and changes, people's perceptions. It could matter. But I, I don't know that the dark Brandon memes themselves would sort of change the way somebody's gonna vote.

city.com (13m 20s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals. And to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed 1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology, that money will help provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. But that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg.

DirecTV (14m 21s):
This episode is brought to you by direct TV stream. Direct TV stream brings you the live TV you love. That means you can stay up to the minute on 24 hour live news from entertainment to current events, wherever you are on the us, whether that's at home on your TV or streaming on the go and you get your favorite live sports. So you can catch this season's biggest games. Get the best of live TV with direct TV stream. Get your TV together@directtv.com.

4 (14m 50s):
Let's

16 (14m 51s):
Go Brandon

1 (14m 53s):
Today explained we're. We're still here with Matt Weiser from the Washington post, Matt Joe. Biden's having a moment. He's had a series of consecutive wins, but it seems like there's always this lingering question in the background as to whether or not he should run again in 2024. Why can he not beat that question?

5 (15m 14s):
Well, I, I mean, I think it's still lingering doubts within his party. And part of this is an age factor. He will turn 80 years old in November. So he will be asking voters to reelect him at 82. He already is the oldest president in American history, but also because he was struggling to get things done. So the question now is whether people will sort of rally behind him now that he's had these successes, but it's kind of an open question heading into 2024, for sure.

1 (15m 44s):
Do we have any idea how much of the democratic party wants Joe Biden to step aside in 2024?

5 (15m 50s):
So there was a poll done by the New York times a month or so ago where it was pretty striking. I mean, there was two thirds of the party sort of looking for somebody else. They were not fully behind him, which was a striking figure, given that he is the standard bearer for the democratic party and that people were looking elsewhere, you know, were hoping that somebody else might run the thing is that nobody has emerged. So I think that that's also a question is whether anybody would actually challenge Biden or whether they're looking for him to first step aside before somebody else would run. And those are two very different things and, and would play out in different ways. What

1 (16m 29s):
Were the reasons people gave for wanting someone else to potentially run in Biden's place? What did people say?

5 (16m 34s):
It was a lot of age and it was a lot of, he's not getting things done. You know, he's not delivering on some of the promises that he ran in 2020 community

11 (16m 44s):
College. They should be free in my view, there goes that big spend in Biden again, man.

5 (16m 49s):
And so there's a feeling that somebody else would be better able to push forward on democratic priorities. But Trump, you know, like so much of our politics still looms very large over this. And I think that particularly among Biden allies, there's a feeling that if Trump runs again, it strengthens his hand because he effectively argued in the 2020 campaign that he was best positioned to take on Donald Trump.

11 (17m 19s):
I'm gonna beat this man like a drum.

5 (17m 21s):
And there's a lot of skepticism over that in the primary, because there were the same factors that he was old. He was outta touch with the party, but he did win the primary. And then he proved correct in his assessment that he was able to beat Donald Trump for his allies. If Trump is running again, that strengthens their hand and arguing to skeptics within their party, that, you know, Biden is the best positioned to take on Trump. If Trump's not running, then I think it, it gets a little bit dicier for his side to make those arguments. If he's running against a Ron DeSantis or somebody who's kind of a young Republican, it heightens the questions of age. So I, I don't know if the age factor would play as much as it would.

5 (18m 4s):
If Trump is in the, in the contest,

17 (18m 7s):
I make this pledge to you today, I will never ever ride a bicycle.

1 (18m 13s):
And because this is something that's sort of in the water and, and part of the democratic conversation right now, there are some hints as to who might be offered as a replacement in the 20, 24 race. Is

5 (18m 26s):
That right? I mean, yeah, there are discussions as there often are, and it's kind of striking actually, cuz you know, Kamala Harris is the vice president.

18 (18m 33s):
We did it, we did it Joe

5 (18m 37s):
In some scenarios would put to rest to questions of, of who's next. It would be obvious the sitting vice president would be next, but that's not necessarily the case. Her approval rating numbers are tied to Joe Biden's. And so there probably would be a contested primary. It would not be as if Kamala Harris were, were anointed as the next democratic nominee. There would be people like Pete Buttigieg, the transportation secretary.

19 (19m 0s):
I can't even tell you the number of spaces, venues, and scenarios where I've been protested. And

5 (19m 4s):
There's a lot of governors out there. Who've been making waves, Gavin Newsom in California. It's

20 (19m 9s):
Independent independence day. So let's talk about what's going on in America. Freedom. It's under attack in your

5 (19m 14s):
State JB Pritzker in, in Illinois

14 (19m 17s):
That people know that there's a big difference between people like us who are getting things done for working families and people like the Republicans who are extremists and

5 (19m 25s):
Making noise enough to where people were sort of wondering whether they would actually challenge Joe Biden in a primary, both say they would not that they would support Biden. Were he to run again? Then Pritzker made a trip to New Hampshire, which raised a lot of eyebrows. Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren.

21 (19m 41s):
We have reached the combination of what Republicans have been fighting for angling for, for decades now. And we are gonna fight that.

5 (19m 54s):
You know, there's a whole host of people I think who would potentially run.

1 (19m 58s):
And even if Joe Biden does run again, which I believe he says he will. Right?

5 (20m 4s):
Yeah. Biden and all those around him are sort of forecasting that he is likely to run. They're sort of looking at the timeline of when Obama announced that he was running for reelection, which would put him in April of next year. So he is trying to get through the midterm cycle, keep the focus on candidates who are running in the midterms before making an announcement and making an official sometime in the spring of next year, all signs are pointing that direction. Biden historically is dragged this stuff out. No final decision has been made at the moment, but all signs are pointing to him running for reelection.

1 (20m 38s):
But even if he does run for reelection, Democrats could still challenge him. Right? There's precedent for that.

5 (20m 44s):
Yeah. Usually the incumbent has the major advantage within their party. But the closest parallels is probably 1980 when Ted Kennedy challenged Jimmy Carter, who was the sitting president.

22 (20m 56s):
And it seems to me that the Democrats are gonna be reluctant to nominate a candidate for the presidency that is unwilling to defend his record

5 (21m 5s):
By some accounts weakened Carter, to the point where he was ultimately defeated by Ronald Reagan. Ironically Joe Biden was approached at the time. Then a young Senator, Joe Biden,

23 (21m 16s):
The youngest new face in the us Senate next year will be that of Democrat Joseph Biden of Delaware.

5 (21m 22s):
It was approached as, as somebody who could be a conservatory candidate if Jimmy Carter and Ted Kennedy bruised themselves so badly in the primary, the party could turn to a young Joe Biden, the same guy, the same, same figure that we have now that didn't end up happening Biden didn't feel like he was ready to run. But yeah, I mean, there, there is precedent for that within the democratic party of, of having a, a challenge to an incumbent president who's seen as weak and ineffective, it could happen again. Joe Biden has seen it happen before and actually been a part of it happening.

1 (21m 58s):
Can we assume that the midterms and the results of said midterms will be a major barometer of the likelihood of Biden running again,

5 (22m 8s):
It will be a major test for a lot of the arguments that Biden is making for him running people will have to run on the on Biden's agenda. It'll be a test for how animated Democrats are over the overturning of Roe V Wade. And it's also quite frankly, a test for Biden's strength within the party. Do candidates want him to come into their districts or into their states and appear with them? It's been sort of a theme throughout his career where he's prided himself on being an ally and an asset for his party. Is that the same this time around like, or is he seen as a weight that nobody wants to be seen with so that they don't get dragged down with his approval rating numbers?

5 (22m 50s):
And how does that impact Democrats and how they feel about Biden and a potential Biden against Trump rematch in 2024?

1 (22m 58s):
I can tell you how I feel about it. Exhausted. Yeah. I, I think, well, if, if the dark brand meme teaches us anything, it seems to be that, you know, political fortunes can change pretty quickly. A few months ago. It seemed like all branded could do was lose. And now it seems like he's on this winning streak that no one saw coming, including his staff in the white house and, and senators in, in Congress. Is it, is it just far too early to be thinking about who should run in 20, 24,

5 (23m 31s):
Even if it's early, it doesn't stop people from talking about it, even, you know, sort of top people within the party or if you're a potential candidate scheming and thinking about who might donate to your campaign. But yeah, I mean, it is a reminder of how quickly things in politics do change and you know, how different things might look a few weeks or a few months from now, given what we, what we know at the moment, things do change quite a bit, but I think the midterms are kind of a good barometer. They're sort of the next test. And it's a moment for the party and the country to take stock of sort of where it's at. And then you can sort of reassess and you know, it's the first time voters will be able to have their say an actual election sort of gives you a true test of where things are.

1 (24m 13s):
You think if Joe Biden gets sched in the midterms, the dark Brandon meme dies or does it live on?

5 (24m 18s):
I mean, some people have already suggested that maybe it dies when us senators are tweeting about memes. Like then that's the effect of death of the meme. You know, it's, it's no longer something that's like cool and hip online. If a us Senator is tweeting about it, even explaining back to let's go Brandon to where we are now with dark Brandon, like it, it gets kind of complicated. And who knows what, what other twists, what other twists Brandon has ahead of him?

1 (24m 48s):
Matt, we Washington post I'm Sean Rambo today explained our show was fact checked by Laura Bullard engineered by Paul Robert mosey edited by Matthew Colette and produced by miles, Brian and John Aarons who wrote our dark Brandon theme,

2 (25m 4s):
Sinister smile lasers in eyes. When I see what does it symbolize? It's dark, it's dark, it's dark. It's not.