1 (7s):
It's Wednesday, April 15, 20 20. The sun is out in the nation's capital, but it's pretty cold for mid-april. I'm Sean Rama's for him. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained more than 2 million people across the world have or have had this coronavirus in the face of this growing Global pandemic President Trump is suspending funding for the World Health Organization. He accused the who of covering up the spread of covid-19 and failing to investigate claims. Coming out of Wuhan that directly conflicted with reports from the Chinese government. The president said we have not been treated properly before sending the who to its room and canceling its allowance for 60 to 90 days while a review is conducted speaker Pelosi said in a statement last night.

1 (55s):
The truth is a weak person a poor leader takes no responsibility a weak person blames others. The United States is the largest single donor to the who un secretary. Antonio guterres said this was not the time to reduce the who is resources a whole lot of Americans are about to have slightly more resources. Those stimulus checks are now on their way along with President Trump Sharpie scroll signature. According to the Washington Post. It'll be the first time a president's name appears on an IRS disbursement. If you're going to direct deposit route, you'll sadly have to close your eyes and imagine that signature when you check your balance online high school students might have to avert their eyes pretty soon at home digital versions of Act and sat are on their way if we're still social distancing in the fall, please.

1 (1m 43s):
No looking at your phone your laptop your iPad your switch. You're super smart older brother. Animesh. I'm betting test scores go way up either way traffic was way up today in Lansing Michigan demonstrators surrounded Michigan state capitol in their cars mostly but also outside of them to protest what they see as overly restrictive stay-at-home orders passed by Governor Gretchen Whitmer and response to one of the The biggest outbreaks in the country and the state with the worst outbreak in the country has a new rule New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announced that if you can't stay six feet away in public, you're going to have to cover your face starting this Friday safely remove your face mask at home to call today explained. We're at two.

1 (2m 23s):
Oh two six eight eight five nine

2 (2m 25s):
four four, or you can

1 (2m 26s):
keep it on to email us today. Explain to vox.com or tweet at us. We're today underscore explained and I'm a trauma sperm. We want to hear from you. Tell us how you doing. All right. Thanks. Earlier this year when you could still go places.

1 (3m 6s):
I took a tour of the national postal Museum right here in Washington DC. I really love corresponding postcards packages Christmas cards, so I was more or

3 (3m 20s):
less in male

1 (3m 21s):
heaven. But even if you didn't care for correspondence at all, you'd Marvel at the

3 (3m 27s):
history of this organization the Pony Express the stagecoach the

1 (3m 32s):
scruffy dog that used to

3 (3m 33s):
Did the mail trains the Obscure stamps that billionaires bit on the Elvis stamps that made USPS tens of millions of dollars. I remember my mom tracking a sheet down even from Canada when I was a kid. The only thing at the Museum you don't see or read about is that the organization is in big huge trouble.

1 (3m 56s):
The United States Postal Service has a massive debt problem. It's had it for years. But now it's way worse because of this novel coronavirus last week the Postmaster General Megan Brennan told Congress USPS will run out of cash by September without financial aid and that this coronavirus will cause a thirteen billion dollar Revenue loss this year and something like a fifty four billion projected loss over the next decade

3 (4m 23s):
veteran from the United States. Evie and I deliver mail for the United States Post Office and I'm scared. I'm not only scared about delivering mail and Contracting the coronavirus. I'm scared. I might not have a job in a couple months. That people who depend on us who need medicine delivered to them because they can't go Outdoors. Did they need supplies in order to live waiting for checks or stimulus checks?

3 (5m 7s):
They won't be able to get it if the post Office closes. Every time I go to work. I see my co-workers and in the back of my head I said this might not last too long now people who devoted their whole lives to this job. We need help. Thanks for hearing me out. On today's show. We're going to figure out

1 (5m 36s):
how to save the United States Postal Service. But first you should hear what's worth saving and since you can't visit the national postal Museum, even if you wanted to we got Richard John to explain he's a professor of history at Columbia's journalism School.

2 (5m 52s):
The post office is in the Constitution. It's one of the only large organizations in the Constitution and it has a mandate that was Set forth in 1792 to circulate information on public affairs in order to prevent the degeneracy of free government or so said the speaker of the house at that time. Now, what did that mean for the founders? Well in the 18th century founding of the United States was a recognition that it was extremely hard for the citizenry to communicate and to learn about what was going on in the nation's capital.

2 (6m 37s):
We'd had a small postal Network really it just a link or chain in the colonial period all this changed in 1792 first, every newspaper would be admitted into the mail at low-cost second provision Congress got control over the designation of new routes and the new routes came said the network very soon. I am by far the largest in the world much bigger than Britain France much denser. So it was not just a chain or link but a true Network that extends. Well, wherever Americans lived almost never wear postal routes eliminated and they were expanded under Congressional mandate without regard for cost and to this day.

2 (7m 25s):
One of the Sakura stressed methods of circulating information is by putting it in a letter. So that was the foundation by the it's Verdes when Alexis de tocqueville visits the United States the French Aristocrat who wants to understand this new remarkable astonishing phenomena democracy. He sees the results that the lawmakers the founders of this country had set in motion with the post office Act of 1792 normos circulation of newspapers length and breadth of the United States magazines to making possible engagement of the citizenry as public affairs. That is a Cornerstone.

2 (8m 4s):
American experiment in

1 (8m 6s):
democracy and like so many other cornerstones of this American experiment. It just comes down to size bigger is better.

2 (8m 16s):
Well size is really

1 (8m 17s):
important. We Americans have the largest mail service in the

3 (8m 20s):
world. In fact, we send and receive more mail than all of the rest of the world

2 (8m 26s):
combined another distinctive feature of the US Post Office. Let's compare it with the British post office was that its rationale was not fiscal or Commercial in Britain and in France, you wouldn't establish a new office or a new route. If it couldn't break even that was not true in the United States. We have a Civic mandate much more expansive than the commercial mandate in Britain or the fiscal mandate in France. The post office was not about making money for the government. The post office was about providing services for ordinary Americans because if we're going to have a democracy Ordinary People need to be well-informed the post.

2 (9m 8s):
This was the primary institution to facilitate the circulation of information necessary to provide the citizenry with information on market trends public affairs. And after the 1840s personal matters as

1 (9m 21s):
well, but it does make money right? That's one of the things you notice when you go to the postal Museum in Washington DC they talk about how the Postal Service made Millions upon millions of dollars off of Elvis stamps in the 90s. I mean, this was a profitable Enterprise, right?

2 (9m 36s):
Right. So let's take the Long View. From the 1790s until the 1830s the post office made money every year that is to say money went from the post office into the general treasury. There was a rough patch in the 1830s. Do you have a new means of transportation Railroad and steamboats this undercuts post office revenue by some estimates as much as a half two-thirds of the mail volume on the heavily traffic routes. Weird post office has never faced a crisis up to the present as serious as the crisis is confronted in the 1830s and 40s, but Congress responded Congress responded by lowering postal rates, the letter rate to make it competitive with the private carriers who would sprung up in the 1840s.

2 (10m 27s):
It actually establishes a monopoly over what we would later come to call first-class mail or letter mail, which was where most of the revenue came from until relatively recently. And most importantly it declared that we are not going to oblige the post office to try to break even did it break even from the 1840s until the 1960s. Now most years had lost money some years it lost millions of dollars that led Congress to interminable debates, which very few people have ever read in these debates in the end. They appropriate money for the post office and the post office

1 (11m 4s):
continues and how does USPS get into this current crisis? It's

2 (11m 8s):
in with the decline in first class mail that is to say correspondence and more important bills of that. I think the peak year was 2001 and that has eliminated the most reliable source of post office revenue. And with that decline, which is largely due to the internet with that decline has come mounting deficits and ancillary problem Congress. Right and the deficits in 2006 was the pre funding of Pensions of postal workers postal salaries are a very high percentage of postal costs.

2 (11m 51s):
There are several hundred thousand workers is one of the largest workforces in the country to work force that employs many many Nora T's especially African Americans veterans unionized Workforce and that what became an issue in 2006. The pre-funding of Pensions and that has greatly increased the financial liabilities of the post office Inspector General of the post office estimated a couple years ago that virtually all of the postal have his deficit was due to the pre-funding of the of the pensions and not operational budget of the post office, which is remarkable given the transformation that has occurred in the information infrastructure since the commercialization of the

1 (12m 36s):
internet. So pensions are Killing USPS but as you've established the Postal Service deficit is nothing new. It's just a can that's been kick since the founding of the Republic

2 (12m 46s):
the postal deficit has been the subject of disputation and debate in Congress since the 1840s and the post office is still with us. And that's because the post office serves function that is vital to the future of our democracy. But if you're living in a rural area area and you're dependent on prescription drugs post office is a Lifeline 2020 census. However, all those forms going to be distributed post office is a Lifeline if the 2020 election occurs conditions even remotely resembling the present circumstance. I'm in quarantine in Manhattan mail-in voting can it be a lifeline and package delivery.

2 (13m 33s):
Lots of people are getting packages via the USPS that are coming from a shippers and that may well Be the future of the post office in Alliance with internet Commerce large and small if that shot off. It's going to be devastating to internet businesses, especially small internet businesses and especially small internet businesses that are located outside of the major commercial centers in the parts of the country where the post office remains believe it or not a community center in those parts of the country disruption to The Postal. Network would be a devastating could actually destroy the community I don't think that's too strong and if you don't believe me just get outside of the major cities go to Rural America and start asking folks about the role of the post office and their daily lives

3 (14m 28s):
after the break how to save the Postal Service. I'm thinking it's Hey, it's Kara Swisher. You may know me as the only person who looks cool wearing sunglasses indoors. But in my spare time, I host a podcast called Rico decode every week. We talk about power change in the people.

3 (15m 8s):
You need to know around Tech and Beyond some of my recent guests include Edward Snowden Megan Rapinoe and the cast of The L Word which was a huge thrill for me. If any of these sound interesting to you, you should listen them now on Rico decode subscribe to the show for free on Apple podcast or in your favorite podcast app to be the first to hear new interviews every. weak Hey, so I've been getting emails from listeners and sometimes even tweet saying like how can we support the work that you are doing that today explain is doing that Vox is doing and usually I'm just like I don't know share it. But now there is a different way to support today explained and box Vox is launching a contribution effort right now and vox.com give you can give money you can contribute to help Vox make podcasts to The explanatory journalism that you depend on and right now in this crisis is more important than it's ever been so you can

1 (16m 10s):
choose what that work is

3 (16m 12s):
worth to you and give to support Vox and today explained and all the stuff that you love that we do go to vox.com give right now and make your contribution just a heads up. It's not tax deductible. But thank you so much for your support. Matthew yglesias you wrote about how

1 (16m 37s):
we can save USPS for vox.com tell the people what you wrote, you know in the short term the Postal Service. It needs a lot of money. Like a lot of Institutions its revenue is just plummeting as a result of chronic virus and it is going to need to make drastic cutbacks and service levels, unless the federal government shovels a bunch of money at it their various questions about the sort of long-term future of postal. Policy in the United States of America where reasonable people can sort of disagree but there's nothing that's really going to work on the time frame that we're looking at other than give them a bunch of money or have them stop delivering the mail six days a week. Well, okay that was easy button

3 (17m 19s):
give them a ton of money or

1 (17m 20s):
USPS is going to go bust since we still have you the let's talk about the long-term ideas. What are the proposals to fix this thing for? Good. What's the spectrum look like? Sure.

3 (17m 33s):
Look for a

1 (17m 33s):
long time conservatives have felt we shouldn't really have the Postal Service as we understand it. We should open up the mail Market to competition. We should privatize the postal service. We should let a new private entity probably do some some union-busting and they would still be companies that deliver mail for a fee but the basic guarantee of postal services that we know and understand would not exist anymore on the other side. You have people on the left. We're saying look we should take this public sector infrastructure of the postal service and we should have a do more stuff in particular. We should offer banking services, huh through the postal service or using the postal service has a retail front end to the Federal Reserve.

1 (18m 16s):
And so everybody could have a bank account and it would be a USPS bank account. You'd have an ATM card the retail outlets that the post office runs would become the branches of the public bank and that's something that you know existed in Japan for a long. Long time it exists in Germany to this day. It could provide a new line of business for the post office. But also resolve a bunch of problems related to the unbanked and the banking system then in the middle, there's something like look keep the post office around and either make it cut its budget or give it more money or some combination of the to do all of the relevant political players fall where you think they would like is President Trump for privatizing and increasing prices.

1 (19m 1s):
Well, you know president Trump's Focus has been on the idea that if the post office would simply raise the fee is that it charges to Amazon that that would resolve all of its financial problems. They lose money every time they deliver a package for Amazon or these other internet companies these other companies that deliver they drop everything in the post office. They say you deliver it and if they'd raise the prices by actually a lot then you'd find out that the post office could make money or break even and As far as I can tell that's just not true reasonable people can disagree about is privatization a good idea are bailouts a good idea.

1 (19m 41s):
Should they only deliver mail for days a week, but all of those things would would work mathematically President Trump's idea that if you just jack up the prices you pay to Amazon these problems would magically go away. Nobody knows for sure what would happen if they did that but it seems to be wrong. It seems like the post office would Lose market share, they would be running half empty trucks and they charge what they charge because it's good business for them to do it and do Democrats support this idea of turning the post service into a bank. Is that where the other end of the argument is left-wing Democrats have gotten on board that bandwagon is It's Not Unusual to think of the post office as a place where basic Consumer Financial Services are handled and I would say the mainstream Democratic position is we should do what the Master General wants and just give them some money give them a loan on generous terms.

1 (20m 38s):
Give them some money to make some upgrades basically think of it as fiscal stimulus Democrats are out there. They're arguing for more money for hospitals more money for state and local governments Hazard pay for Frontline workers. And they also want to give more money to The Postal Service. The Trump Administration has been adamant that they don't want to agree to that. What's the counter argument? Is it just like another bailout for the postal service? Service that they don't want to provide. I mean it's three things one is Republicans are skeptical of spending more money. They are focused on trying to expand this small business lending program, but they don't want to do that much besides that the other thing is conservatives have for a long time tried to push for privatization.

1 (21m 22s):
So they see this as possibly an opportunity. And then the third factor is President Trump's personal sort of War on Amazon and and the postal service has gotten kind of caught in the crossfire. To an extent between President Trump and Jeff Bezos. You wouldn't think it was relevant, but it seems very relevant to what's happening here. What about this idea that we should turn the Postal Service into a bank? Why is that divisive? Why can't everyone get on board with an idea like that where we have this capacity? Why not use it obviously Banks really do not like the idea of needing to compete with some kind of a public option for banking. I mean, this would solve a bunch of problems around the edges of the banking system. We have millions of people who don't have Have bank accounts it becomes hard for the government to do things because I can't interface with unbanked people but it would be a huge blow to both conventional Banks and especially check-cashing operations to have these postal Banks out there.

1 (22m 17s):
I mean also, there are a lot of questions. It's easy to sort of say on paper. Oh, this will be fine. Everyone have a bank account. They'll use the post office. But like how is it actually going to work in detail is a sort of a complicated managerial question, but it's a concept that has been And percolating on the left ever since the last financial crisis because you know, there's a lot of anti bank sentiment out there and has gained some kind of steam. So the postal service keeps being sort of caught between these two grand reform Visions, right? Like make it bigger or get rid of it and every year they lose a bit more mail and now because of coronavirus it's just falling off the cliff and they're going to need some money fast.

1 (22m 60s):
What about this privatization option has that been pulled off anywhere else has any other country taking a massive high-functioning Postal Service and privatized it with success. I mean, you know, this will sound funny to Americans who are used to thinking of Europe as a land of socialism, but postal services are pretty much privatized in most of Europe and a lot of the sort of former state-run postal agencies. They still have these like government kind of names right? So there's like the Royal Mail In the UK, but that's privatized. It seems to work. Okay. I mean, I think it's hard to say there's some catastrophic consequence of this.

1 (23m 43s):
It's just that it's then run more like a business right now. You pay a flat rate to bail letter from anywhere in America to anywhere else in America. That's like fairness, right? That's government. That's democracy. It's not business. It is much more inconvenient to deliver things to people in the most isolated rural communities than 2 People in big cities. The reason the postal service has that flat rate guaranteed. Everyone is that it's a it's a government agency that would go away if you privatize the post office

3 (24m 16s):
and just like anything ambitious sounding seems unlikely in this moment where the country's got so much else to worry about right? So what's the most likely outcome here? Is it just the terms of the funding that they'll eventually get? I mean the most sensible outcome I think

1 (24m 31s):
would be to give them. Money and just kick this down the road. There is no reason that Congress needs to resolve this long-simmering question about the future of postal services in the United States right now in the middle of a National Emergency. There are hundreds of thousands of people work for the Postal Service. I think having Mass layoffs at USPS. This fall would be very disruptive would be very economically damaging and that's much more obvious to me that the answer to any question about like, how should we handle the mail? In the long-term future is just that we don't need hundreds of thousands of people losing their jobs and

3 (25m 8s):
September. Matthew yglesias host the weeds from Vox the weeds recently redesigned its logo and the new one is Foy. Go check it out. Wherever you listen to logos. It's the black and yellow one with the Capitol building on it. One last thing about the United States Postal Service. It inspired the name of maybe the greatest elektronik. Emo Duo ever they're called The Postal Service back in the early days of this Century to musicians Jimmy tamburello in Los Angeles and Ben Gibbard and Seattle started mailing each other music because the United States Postal Service is cheap and reliable and you know Dropbox didn't exist yet.

3 (25m 58s):
Once they had enough jams to make an album. They decided to call themselves The Postal Service because of that whole mailing music origin story. They called the album give up and it did really well. So That the United States Postal Service would like guys you can't just steal our name but no one got sued instead the Postal Service band agreed to play a show for you as PS and to let USPS use their songs in commercials and USPS agreed to sell the band's CDs on its website. Remember CDs and websites.