0 (1s):
There's this sort of chilling interview with the Vladimir Putin circulating online right now. The interviewer asks the Russian president if one should be able to forgive others. The Russian president says, yes, but not everything. What can't be forgiven? Betrayal, Yev Guinea Prigozhin started out as a petty criminal. Then he leveled up from hotdog slinger to chef, to caterer, to none other than Vladimir Putin. From there he became a mercenary, and his Wagner group played a pivotal role in Putin's war in Ukraine until he turned his tanks in the opposite direction.

0 (44s):
A

3 (44s):
Longtime Putin ally led his mercenary Wagner group from the battlefields in Ukraine to seize Russia's military headquarters in Rosoff.

0 (52s):
Betrayal. A crime you can't forgive one that's punishable by death ahead. On today's explain,

5 (1m 4s):
Donald Trump is facing 91 felony charges across four indictments. But one charge in Georgia stands out.

2 (1m 12s):
The Rico case against Donald Trump in Georgia involves 19 defendants. And when you have a case involving 19 defendants and the wide range of crimes that they've been charged with committing, it creates all kinds of complications.

5 (1m 29s):
The ins and outs of Rico cases And, what this could mean for 2024. This week on the weeds,

6 (1m 37s):
10 years ago, chance the rapper released a mix tape called acid rap. It was full of a certain joy and exuberance that feels lacking in hip hop today. I asked him why that is.

1 (1m 49s):
I think it's just worse. Like I think just worse in terms of public safety. you know, even the weather, like the earth is not, not as lit as it was in 2013.

6 (2m 3s):
Chancellor Rapper on how hip hop has changed. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast,

7 (2m 14s):
Voia, you're throwing the

6 (2m 17s):
This is

0 (2m 18s):
Today explains Julia Yfi was not surprised by the news yesterday.

9 (2m 27s):
Well, Sean we're recording on Wednesday afternoon, and basically about an hour ago, we saw people close to Prigozhin start to confirm his death. So Telegram channels connected to Wagner reporters saying that they were speaking to Wagner employees who were being notified of his death. Everyone was waiting for this to happen. There were jokes going around that, you know, he would fall out of a window and he should maybe strap himself down to his bed at night when he slept or only get rooms on the ground floor. Hmm. So everybody was speculating when and how it would happen, and Putin outdid us all.

9 (3m 9s):
Today,

10 (3m 9s):
Russian state media is now claiming that Wagner Group Chief Prigozhin has been killed in a plane crash in a flight from Moscow to St. Petersburg.

0 (3m 19s):
Julia's the Washington correspondent for Puck. She spent her career writing about Russia. We asked her what led to Ian's betrayal, what led him to March on Mother Russia.

9 (3m 30s):
He started turning in the winter and spring of this year. His troops had suffered incredible casualties, just unbelievable casualties in part because they were sent in these waves of attacks, these frontal assaults on Ukrainian positions outside of Bamal in eastern Ukraine. The

11 (3m 54s):
US recently said that Wagner has only 50,000 troops in Ukraine. In total 30,000 casualties, 50,000 people total. And the complaints from inside Wagner starting to mount,

9 (4m 6s):
He felt that A, the Russian military was not supporting him, that they felt threatened by him and as a result were starving him of ammunition while basically waiting for him to take this politically significant city of bammo. And he felt that they were mismanaging the war to begin with, and he reserved most of his iron, not at, not for the Czar Vladimir Putin, but for his bad generals. The weird thing about Russia is that as soon as Putin invaded Ukraine in February of 2022, he passed these super harsh military censorship laws that basically criminalized any dissent on the war.

9 (4m 55s):
It criminalized calling the special military operation of war. It criminalized defaming Russian soldiers and the Russian military,

13 (5m 3s):
A TV producer who works at the station jumped behind her holding a white sign on that sign it, read No war. Don't believe the propaganda. They're lying to you. Now, she was taken into custody lawyers who have been trying to reach her say they can't, they don't know where she is.

9 (5m 19s):
But people who were to the right of Putin, who were even more hawkish, who were, who were criticizing the war, not for existing, but for the Russian military, not going hard enough, not being vicious enough in Ukraine for criticizing the, the leadership of the military. That was somehow fine. It was fine for a long time. But Ian crossed a line by rallying his troops and taking 25,000 of his fighters who were quite vicious and quite loyal, and declaring that he was going to march on Moscow.

14 (5m 55s):
In extraordinary scenes, Yi demanded the downfall of Russia's defense minister and its chief of staff accusing them of mishandling the war on Ukraine. Soon came reports of Bargainer troops heading north.

9 (6m 10s):
He tried to be very clear in saying, this is not a coup. I have no problems with the President. I just want different leadership at the top of the Russian military that clearly did not help him because what he did was he embarrassed Putin on the world stage And. it showed that Russia is not that well defended. I mean, he took the city of Soff, which is a city of over a million people. you know, it is where the war in Ukraine is waged out of and planned out of. And he took it without firing a single shot.

15 (6m 48s):
Nobody resisted them. There went unimpeded. Where were the law enforcement? Where was Ros Varde? Where was the army? Where was the Minister of Defense? These are questions that probably Mr. Putin is asking himself, but the image of a strong tar, the image of an assailable politician who sorts out anything and everything is now ruined. So people know that in a way the king is naked.

0 (7m 17s):
If it was so easy, why did he stop? Why did he turn around?

9 (7m 21s):
That's the million dollar question. I've heard various things from my sources. I've heard that basically he left most of his troops in Oph and he set out for Moscow with only 5,000 men. And as he got closer to Moscow, he realized it would not be like ov that the bridges were now mined, that there would be tens of thousands of special troops. Basically Putin's, ang and guard waiting to meet him, and that he would just run into this buzz saw. And apparently his troops also started getting cold feet. They felt that this was not what they had signed up for. Then Belarusian, president Alexander Senka, seemingly at the Kremlin's bidding, intervened, negotiated this strange deal where Jagen would go to Belarus and Wagner fighters would either disarm and go home or join the Russian military and everybody would live happily ever after.

16 (8m 20s):
Wagner supporters chanted Wagner as fighters drove out of Rostov, giving Prigozhin handshakes as he left in this SS u V, the Kremlin says it's dropped charges and Prigozhin will go to Belarus while promising his fighters contracts with the Russian military. For now a crisis apparently averted.

9 (8m 41s):
But it was very clear then on June 24th that that was not the final chapter in this story.

0 (8m 48s):
Was it clear the moment he turned around that he essentially had signed his own debt sentence?

9 (8m 53s):
Absolutely. I mean, there's no way you can do that and survive till your next birthday. I mean, this was a crazy challenge to Putin's rule. He took up arms against the government. You cannot do that and not go all the way. He signed his own death warrant.

0 (9m 13s):
So what did he do in his last two months of life?

9 (9m 16s):
Well, it seems like he was trying to salvage what was left of Wagner. Hmm. And to get the state to allow him to keep some of it. My sources in Moscow were telling me that it looked like he was going to basically be exiled to Africa, not Belarus, but Africa, that he would be allowed to take his fighters and go to Africa from which he clearly could not march on Moscow again. Earlier this week, he posted a video in Full Armor holding a machine gun

17 (9m 52s):
Wagner, P M C conducts reconnaissance and search actions makes Russia even greater on all continents and Africa, more free justice and happiness for the African people we are making life a nightmare for is

9 (10m 8s):
And seems like he's in Africa and he is recruiting, quote unquote strongmen for his cause to serve with him in Africa. And we're seeing reports, you know, as people are still sorting through the burning wreckage of this plane, that it seems like he was on his way back to Moscow to try to perhaps negotiate being allowed to operate there instead of the G R U and to keep his, his business alive there.

0 (10m 39s):
I think a lot of people are wondering how you turn on Putin and then have the the guts to board a plane in Russia.

9 (10m 47s):
To be fair, he's been flying that thing all over Russia for the last two months, huh? Even days after the mutiny, his plane was seen flying back and forth from Moscow to St. Petersburg. And the question people were asking themselves wasn't why is he on a plane? It was, why is he not in Belarus? Wasn't the whole thing that he was going to Belarus, but here he was flying back and forth between Moscow and St. Petersburg or his plane was, and then the Kremlin confirmed that he had had a three hour meeting with Putin in the Kremlin. And again, people ask themselves not why he was on a plane, but why Putin was giving him an audience and for so long, what could he possibly have to discuss with Peor whom he called a traitor on national TV on the morning of June 24th, as and his men were marching on Moscow.

19 (11m 49s):
Actions that split our unity are an abandonment of our people, of our comrades in arms who are now fighting in the front. This is a stab in the back of our country and our people.

9 (12m 2s):
Putin has been very clear about what happens to traitors And, what their rightful place is, which is dead in a ditch. And here's Putin giving him an audience for three hours in the Kremlin, c i a director William Burns, who is a specialist on Russia, he was once the US ambassador to Russia. He really knows this place and he gets it. And he observed very correctly that Putin doesn't like to be seen as overreacting. And that Putin

20 (12m 32s):
Is someone who generally thinks that revenge is a dish best served cold. So he is gonna try to settle the situation to the extent he can. But again, in my experience, Putin is the ultimate apostle of payback.

9 (12m 46s):
I would phrase it a little bit differently. The Putin I've observed doesn't like to act in a way that is expected of him. He doesn't like to be pressured into things either overtly or by people's expectations. He wants to act exclusively on his own timeline and he likes to be the one who is unexpected and unpredictable because unpredictability is a form of power in and of itself that the whole world waits for you and reacts to you and not vice versa.

4 (13m 29s):
Julia

0 (13m 29s):
Returns when we do on today. Explained

Rocket Money (13m 49s):
Support for the show comes from Rocket Money. These days, premium subscription services can look surprisingly cheap, at least at first. You sign up and maybe use it once or twice and then forget about it. From video editors to language learning apps to fitness trackers, it can be hard to keep tabs on your subscriptions. And when they fall off your radar, the charges start to add up. Rocket Money is here to help. It's a personal finance app that can help you find and cancel your unwanted subscriptions. There's no need to spend time trying to crack an old password or go back and forth with customer service. Rocket Money removes that hassle and takes care of it all with a click of a button. If you wanna stop throwing your money away, you can cancel unwanted subscriptions and manage your expenses the easy way by going to rocket money.com/explained. That is rocket money.com/explained. One more time for the road. Rocket money.com/explained. They wanna help save you money.

Vox (14m 55s):
Hey there, it's Noelle from today explained. Vox is trying to learn more about how and when and where our audience listens, and so they're conducting a focus group to hear directly from Listeners like you to help us make our shows better. The focus group discussion will only take about an hour and I'm told you will get a cash gift if you participate. If you're interested, you can go to Vox dot com slash research to apply. Once again, that's Vox dot com slash research. Thanks for doing this.

22 (15m 28s):
So you know Vladimir Putin, you think he's a killer

23 (15m 32s):
I do

0 (15m 33s):
Today. Explained his back with Julia Yaffe from Puck Julia. President Joe Biden has called Vladimir Putin a killer, but has he ever been proven to have killed anyone?

9 (15m 44s):
Well, you know, was Tony Soprano ever proven to have killed anybody? How many triggers did he actually pull?

24 (15m 52s):
Willie overall, Fabian Petillo, Chuckie, Matthew, Bela Pussy

25 (15m 57s):
Reto.

9 (15m 59s):
When you're the head of an operation like this, you give the orders or you imply the orders And, you say, huh, you know this guy, it's a shame he's in the way of where we're trying to go. Right? And everybody gets the message. In this case, I imagine he gave the direct orders, and I imagine that people happily fulfilled it because Prigozhin had made a lot of enemies in the secret services in the Russian military, in the F Ss B, et cetera. The wonderful thing about being an autocrat is you don't have to execute anyone yourself.

9 (16m 39s):
And in this line of work, it's actually very easy to find great help. You don't have to execute anyone on your own. You have legions of people doing it for you.

0 (16m 55s):
And remind us who the people he's maybe had killed for him are. There

9 (16m 59s):
Was Alexander Lit vca, who was an F S B agent who turned and defected to the west and cooperated with the Western Security Services.

26 (17m 11s):
Alexander KO's death from acute radiation sickness was slow and agonizing.

9 (17m 17s):
He was the one who famously drank polonium laced tea.

25 (17m 20s):
It was March, 2018 when deadly nerve agent was deployed on the streets of the city. The target Serge Al.

9 (17m 28s):
There was Serge Al, who was also a former F S B agent who also defected to the West, who also cooperated with Western Security Services who was nearly killed. This was the first time we ever heard of Novi

24 (17m 43s):
Novi, which means newcomer in Russian is an extremely dangerous poison. It's often deadly. It's part of a family of military grade nerve agents developed by the Soviet Union towards the end of the Cold War

9 (17m 56s):
Because he was poisoned but not killed in 2018 in Salisbury, England. I mention these people because they come from the same organization as Vladimir Putin, the F S B, formerly the K G B And. they swore an oath of loyalty, And, they betrayed it, they were traitors. And this is what happens to traitors, which is also interesting because Ian also hated traders and he had a special punishment for them too. And, it was called the hammer of retribution. Basically, anybody who tried to defect or desert the ranks of Wagner who tried to flee to the Ukrainian side was caught and publicly executed by having a giant sledgehammer brought down on their head.

9 (18m 50s):
And often videos of this would be then posted on telegram channels associated with Wagner. So this was clearly a code. He himself understood.

0 (19m 0s):
Both these guys had no problem owning the, the fact that, you know, they said out loud, if you cross me, I'll kill you. And yet Putin has, has never publicly owned an assassination. Is that right? Why not? If so?

9 (19m 16s):
Well, that's not very classy, don't you think? I

0 (19m 19s):
Don't know. I've never killed anybody. Allegedly,

27 (19m 21s):
Allegedly, allegedly, allegedly,

0 (19m 22s):
Allegedly. Allegedly.

9 (19m 25s):
Well, because he doesn't have to. Everybody knows. Look, Putin comes from a world that is governed by these things called pania. Literally it means understandings. It's an unwritten code of rules. And as one former oligarch told me, somebody actually who Putin went after pretty viciously, I asked him, who do these rules apply to? And he says, if you know the rules, they apply to you. The people who need to know the rules, know the rules. If you don't know the rules, they're not about you. So when something like this happens, everybody understands exactly what happened.

9 (20m 6s):
Even if Putin doesn't say I did it. He doesn't have to. The whole point is not just to kill the traitor, but to send a message to everybody else that this is what will happen to you if you betray me. All the people for whom this is intended, the people who might be plotting another mutiny or who might be thinking some other kind of deviant thoughts about Putin, about offing him maybe or ending the war or coming out to protest him or turning on him. If they're also a member of the Kremlin Elite, this is a very clear message to them and them only, that this is what will happen if you do that. Basically one of us will have to to die, and most likely it's gonna be you.

0 (20m 50s):
And yet one of Putin's most prominent political rivals isn't dead. Is that just because Putin failed to assassinate him? So he's in jail.

28 (21m 1s):
Navalny was first barred from running for office, then he was poisoned with a chemical nerve agent and later imprisoned to this day, he remains behind bars and faces further charges that could see him locked up for almost three decades.

9 (21m 18s):
He failed to assassinate him. And now everybody knows what that was. Mm. And being in jail is a kind of political death. He cannot organize rallies. He can't, he can't be a politician. He can't lead people. The other thing is, as we've seen with ion, just because it hasn't happened doesn't mean it won't happen. And that is one of the biggest fears of Lee's family, his colleagues and his supporters, that he won't make it out of prison alive. And that if he doesn't make it out of prison alive, it won't be because of natural causes. It will be because Putin will finish him off there.

9 (21m 58s):
And when we say Putin will finish him off there, we mean the people. Putin has delegated to do this. There are many ways to die as we just saw And. it can take quite a while. Here's the thing, Navalny is a different category. He's not a traitor. He was never part of the system. He was never somebody who was loyal to Putin who then turned on him. He is a critic and he is somebody who Putin thinks to be very small and irrelevant, who is trying to pick a fight with Putin to elevate his own stature. He is a contender for power. He's not a traitor. And so in some ways, paying too much attention to him will give him status.

9 (22m 42s):
It's why Putin refuses to even say Na Val's name ever.

0 (22m 48s):
How much of this is a Putin thing and how much of this is a, is a post-Soviet Russia? Thing was, was Boris Yeltsin knocking off his foes? Was Gorbachev killing people?

9 (22m 58s):
It's a really good question, and I guess it's a question of, you know, how much you buy the essentialist argument about Russia, if Putin is a foreign body ruling the Russian people, or if he is, as he claims the personification, the incarnation of the Russian people and their national idea and of their culture. Some of this is some of this language of, of this unwritten code of ethics, of how loyalty is rewarded and how betrayal is punished. It does come out of the Soviet and post-Soviet space. The difference is that the people who used to rule Russia like Garba, like yel, they did not come from the same sphere that Putin did.

9 (23m 47s):
They came out of the communist party apparatus. They were trained to be politicians in the Soviet sense, not outward facing, but inward facing. They were trained to do, to kind of do battle in the coal wars of power. Bureaucratically Putin came out of the K G B where he was trained to do this kind of thing, to kill,

0 (24m 7s):
To

9 (24m 7s):
Kill, to lie to disassemble. Russia has never been ruled by somebody like this who acts on these kinds of rules the way he does. That's the departure.

4 (24m 21s):
Do

0 (24m 21s):
You think Prigozhin, on some level knew this is how he'd meet his end long before the mutiny in June? Do you think it was a, you know, live by the sword, die by the sword situation?

9 (24m 35s):
I honestly don't know. I imagine he knew on June 24th when he turned around that he didn't have long to live. I also imagine that in flying his plane back and forth in being allowed to publicly recruit to continue Wagner's operations in Africa, he maybe got lulled into a sense that the danger had passed. That if they hadn't come for him now, they probably wouldn't. And that that SAR had in fact forgiven him in his great benevolence. And perhaps that's why Putin chose to strike now. And that is, I think part of the method is to show how fully in control you are, even if you might not be, it's to show that you can play with your prey like a cat plays with a mouse

0 (25m 33s):
Julia, Yaffe of Puck. You can read her at Puck News. Our program today was produced by Amanda Lewellyn and John Ehrens. We were edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Serena Solin and engineered by David Herman. I'm Sean Ramas firm and you're listening to today Explained.