3 (12s):
Emily Stewart Vox last night the sixth democratic debate very awkwardly time between the president getting impeached and

1 (19s):
Christmas. Yeah it even more Awkward maybe is that it was on the same night as Miss America pageant, which a lot of people probably don't even realize still exist. I had

3 (29s):
no idea that was going on but I'm guessing more people probably watched Miss America than the debate, which did you end up

2 (34s):
watching so I kind of

1 (36s):
watched both, but if I can be honest, I did spend some time on Miss

4 (39s):
America. Accomplished principles

1 (45s):
as I was wanted I kind of thought you know, what a lot of these answers sound kind of similar. So since I watched both of them last night, I decided to make up a little game. I bet a lot of people wouldn't know what came from a pageant contestant. Although now, they call them candidates and Miss America and what came from a presidential candidate

3 (1m 7s):
they're both candidates.

1 (1m 8s):
Yeah, they changed it now because Miss America is trying Be better they got rid of the swimsuit competition. They now have to have a social impact initiative. Obviously all these women are still beautiful and this is about beauty but Miss America is trying to be a little more

3 (1m 24s):
modern. Hmm. So did you make this game? Did you actually

1 (1m 28s):
execute indeed I did it is on the vox.com website. Can we play the game? Yeah, so let's do

4 (1m 35s):
it.

1 (1m 38s):
So basically what I'm going to do is read a quote to you and then you tell me do you think it came from a presidential candidate or a beauty queen? Okay, cool. Alright. So the first one America needs a champion right now and I'm that champion.

4 (1m 55s):
That's

3 (1m 55s):
actually good. Wow, that could really be either I'm gonna say that's from last night's

4 (1m 60s):
debate.

1 (2m 2s):
Nope. It was Miss Connecticut last night.

3 (2m 9s):
Hit me with another. I really wish I could have that one back.

1 (2m 11s):
The world needs America, but it can't be just any America. It has to be one that is actually living up to the values that make us who we are supporting peace supporting democracy supporting human rights and supporting stability around the world.

4 (2m 28s):
I

3 (2m 29s):
feel like something like that was said at the debate last night. Can I go debate

1 (2m 33s):
again? And that is correct. That was people today. Yes. All right. You ready for another

3 (2m 39s):
one? Yeah. I'm ready. I'm still pissed about at the first one.

1 (2m 43s):
Did you know that every eight minutes a parent or caregiver makes a medication error that affects the

3 (2m 50s):
child. I don't remember that. I'm going to say pageant.

1 (2m 53s):
That is correct. That was Miss Virginia. You're doing pretty well. Thank you. So now we are going to do prior years. And I think these ones might be a little bit easier. They're like pretty well-known, but maybe not who knows. Um, all right, so I was told I didn't smile

3 (3m 13s):
enough. Well if they're well known it's got to be debate,

1 (3m 16s):
right? I kind of gave it away. Yeah Carly fiorina in 2015, but obviously a lot of women have heard that and I'm sure plenty of the Miss Americas have sorry Carly and then our last one Who am I and why am I here

3 (3m 37s):
that is a hundred percent debate. Who

4 (3m 39s):
am I? Why am I here and I hundred percent forget who said it but it was very funny at the time.

1 (3m 47s):
Right? So that was Emerald James Stockdale. He was in 1992 independent vice presidential candidate who's running with Ross

3 (3m 56s):
Perot. Oh, that's right. That's right. Oh my gosh vintage in my defense. I was 7 years old and lived in another. Other country

2 (4m 5s):
but yeah, so that's the

1 (4m 6s):
game right? It's fun and it's not as easy as you would think.

3 (4m 10s):
Yeah. I'm really glad you came up with this game because I mean in addition to being fun. It shows that pageants aren't as dumb as you think debates aren't as smart as we'd hope and at the end of the day, they're both probably more about TV ratings than they should be but I should say that last night's debate was better than I think all of the ones that preceded it. It was almost never Is and there were really substantive questions and discussions

1 (4m 37s):
and obviously it also helps that there were only seven people on this stage and we're getting closer to the primary. It's actually starting and you started to see that kind of come out last night

3 (4m 48s):
and we should talk about who the seven people were. So it was Klobuchar Biden steyer Warren Sanders Buddha judge and Andrew Yang. So what we saw start out of this very as this very diverse field with Multiple people of color lots of women a few billionaires is now six white people and one Asian guy and credit to the PBS and Politico moderators last night. They actually asked Yang directly about

1 (5m 17s):
this. What message do you think this sends to voters

2 (5m 20s):
of color? It's both an honor and disappointment to be the lone candidate of color on the stage tonight. And

1 (5m 27s):
he also use it as a moment to talk about race in America. And the fact that people of color are being excluded is emblematic of a broader issue and really pivot toward his message.

2 (5m 39s):
And the question is why am I the lone candidate of color on this stage fewer than 5% of Americans donate to political campaigns. You know what you need to donate to political campaigns disposable income. The way we fix this is we take Martin Luther King's message of a guaranteed minimum income our freedom dividend of a thousand dollars a month for all Americans. I guarantee if we had a freedom dividend of $1,000 a month. I would not be the only candidate of color on the stage tonight. Thank you. Mr. Yang.

3 (6m 14s):
As I mentioned at the top that debate sort of was awkwardly timed. It came one day after the president was impeached and just a few days before everyone heads off on vacation for the holidays. They had to lead with impeachment. Did anyone actually say anything interesting the kind of led the last one with impeachment to?

1 (6m 31s):
Yeah. I mean, not really it's awkward to talk about impeachment. If you're running to replace the president like you want to make more of a positive argument for yourself versus like well, maybe the Senate should get rid of him and then I'd be running against

3 (6m 44s):
Pets. Well, let's talk about some of the positive moments that people made for themselves. One of the first questions that seemed to depart from the usual sort of boilerplate of trade and the economy and climate was about this thing that Barack Obama said this week, which is essentially like the world would be a better place if more women were in charge is that fair paraphrasing

2 (7m 3s):
former President Obama said this week when asked who should be running countries that if women were in charge you'd see a significant Improvement on just about everything. He also said quote if you look at the world and look at the problems, it's usually old people usually old men not getting out of the way.

3 (7m 30s):
And I think the question went to Joe Biden first, like what do you think of that Joe?

1 (7m 34s):
Right? Well, it's what you went to Bernie and and Joe Biden and it was like, okay, like maybe ask a woman on the stage and Amy Klobuchar made that point when they turned it to her and she was like,

2 (7m 44s):
thank you for asking a woman this

1 (7m 45s):
question that Elizabeth Warren did too but they framed it to

2 (7m 48s):
her Senator Warren you would be the This president ever inaugurated like you to weigh in as well. I'd also be the youngest woman ever inauguration. To kind of make a

1 (7m 58s):
point that both her and Klobuchar have made which is like hey, we still have not had any women presidents and this is nuts.

3 (8m 6s):
That was a nice moment because everyone got to kind of have a laugh and almost soon after that. We had a first really contentious moment of the evening and it was about wine caves. I could say with a straight

4 (8m 19s):
face. Absolutely. So yes, 75 feet down caves are wonderful. First of all for wine. So there's many things the temperature the humidity. It was about wine caves Emily.

3 (8m 30s):
What is a wine cave?

1 (8m 32s):
I guess it's where rich people keep their wine. So basically this wine Cave thing kind of kicked off when our colleague every code Teddy schleifer found on Instagram some of these pictures of a mayor Pete fundraiser in California, where there is this wine cave and a chandelier with Swarovski Crystals all over and so obviously like there's this broader question within the Party about how to deal with wealthy donors. You know Elizabeth Warren is not taking any money from big donors same with Bernie Sanders and mayor Pete really has embraced some of the bigger fundraisers

3 (9m 23s):
and Pete made the argument that he needs the money. Whereas a lot of the candidates on stage don't because they're independently

2 (9m 29s):
wealthy, you know, according to Forbes Magazine. I'm the literally the only person on this stage who's not a millionaire or a billionaire. So if this is important, this is the problem with issuing Purity tests. You cannot yourself pass if if I pledged never to be in the company of a progressive Democratic donor. I couldn't be up here Senator your net worth is 100 times mine.

1 (10m 0s):
And he also pointed out that Warren for her Senate campaign has done fundraisers in the past and this is sort of a new stance for her. But these you have been kind of going back and forth for a week. So it's not surprising that this would come up

3 (10m 14s):
Senator Klobuchar kind of shut it down by saying like guys, we're not here to fight. Let's move on. Let's make progress but then moments later she was taking shots at Pete herself. Yeah, Amy

1 (10m 22s):
Klobuchar yesterday really came out fighted and she was really going after mayor Pete. You know, I don't think Amy likes Pete very

3 (10m 29s):
much. I don't think so either

2 (10m 31s):
happily when we were in the last debate mayor you basically mocked the hundred years of experience. It's on the stage. And what do I see on this stage? I see Elizabeth's work starting the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and helping 29 million people. I see the vice president's work and getting two billion dollars for his cancer. Moonshot. I see Senator Sanders work of working to get the veterans bill passed across the aisle and I see what I've done our which is to negotiate three Farm bills and be someone that actually had major provisions put in those bills. So what Can dismiss committee hearings? I think this experience works and I have not denigrated your experience as a local official.

2 (11m 15s):
I have been one. You know, I just think you should respect our experience when you look at how you evaluate. She kind

1 (11m 26s):
of made the point with him that like hey young man, like sit down and listen to some of these people respect them.

3 (11m 33s):
Yeah. It was kind of a big night for Klobuchar a big night for Yang. I liked a lot of things about the debate. I I didn't love the moving background that was kind of hard to stare at. I didn't love that a lot of the more diverse candidates had disappeared but I did like fewer people and better questions and more substantive conversation. And whereas all the other debates opened with health care. It's become so monotonous and cliche this one ended with Healthcare and like ended with a fight on

1 (12m 1s):
Healthcare. Yeah. So yesterday you did see Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders really kind of clash over hell. Kara and you know, this was really like a really unique moment. You have two guys who are sensibly the

2 (12m 13s):
frontrunners and making sure that we're able to cover everyone who is in fact able to be covered put your hand down for a second burner. Okay. Just waving to your job. No, I know

1 (12m 26s):
they really did have a pretty substantive argument over there different Visions for healthcare. You know, Joe Biden has basically said he wants to build on Obamacare bill that a Adoption and Bernie Sanders obviously is a huge proponent of medicare-for-all. He always says I wrote the damn bill but last night he did not that was not like his big lime last night. Like they really got into it and tried to draw some clear separation between themselves and you really got to see like how they both think about the issue of Health Care very

2 (12m 58s):
differently. It covers everybody. It's realistic and most importantly it lets you choose what you want here. You have a hundred sixty million people negotiated their health care plans with Employer like many of you have you may or may not like it. If you don't like it, you can move it in the public option that I proposed my plant but if you like it you shouldn't have wallet. You shouldn't have the Washington dictating you you cannot keep the plan you have. Thank you. Vice president Senator Sanders 45 seconds to respond to Joe's plan. Essentially. We retain the status quo. No, that's not true. No, it is exactly true. But thank you and by the way, Joe on to you.

2 (13m 38s):
Your plan. Yes me how are we going to pay for it under your plan? I'll tell you how we're paying for right now. The average worker in America their family makes 60,000 a year that family is now paying $12,000 a year for healthcare 20% of the income of the Medicare for all that family will be paying $1,200 a year because we eliminating the profiteering of the drug companies and the insurance companies and ending is Byzantine. Complex administration of thousands of separate health care plans Senator Cardin Trading Company,

3 (14m 16s):
and it was a reminder that you know, despite everything. We've been through this year the frontrunners in this campaign are still Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders exactly.

4 (14m 31s):
What are you doing bait and review it? What are you doing Ray? What are you doing? Pray it and review it. What are you doing rated and reviewing and one more thing every now pick your favorite episode and send it to a friend and one more thing every now take your face. Episode is send it to a friend. What are you doing five star? What are you doing?

4 (15m 14s):
This day explains to date explain.

3 (15m 24s):
Matthew yglesias Vox. I was just talking to Emily Stewart Vox about last night's debate and how after everything that's happened this year after mayor Pete and Beto and Kamala and Castro and Bloomberg and Marianne Williamson after all that when it comes down to the polls. It's still the Bernie Biden show which is to say the continuation of Obama versus a new Lefty socialist e politics for the Democrats which is to say that after all of Is this is basically the 2016 race all over again? Obama's Legacy versus Bernie. Wait, I mean that's not to dismiss Warren who's in third place in the polls or Budaj age who is doing well in the early States, but they are both behind Sanders at this point in Sanders is behind Biden and you know, the Biden Sanders primary is it's quite similar in a lot of ways to the Hillary Sanders primary.

3 (16m 19s):
The basic question is like should Democrats change in some fundamental way or should they stay the same and a lot of people, you know Harris Booker people who seem very promising and one time or another and part of what felt promising about them to people who are sick of these tensions is they thought okay. Well, maybe we can turn the page on this right have a new generation of leaders, but most of the electorate it turns out is gravitates toward Biden or to Sanders and that kind of basic tension inside the party remains quite robust. An interview at one issue that sort of captured the essence of that tension.

3 (16m 59s):
I imagine it's the issue that most of the debates started with its medicare-for-all versus what might be called like Obamacare plus, huh? Exactly and you see, you know, Sanders and Biden argue about this you also saw a whole bunch of candidates initially come out for Medicare for all I think assuming that by co-opting when a Bernie signature issues that could call up his supporters when it turned out that you know, that wasn't going to happen. One right that the Sanders constituency is very loyal to him that started to lead Cory Booker Kamala Harris, maybe even to an extent Elizabeth Warren. Definitely P Budaj to back away from that idea. Right? And so it's in part a debate about policy. But really the policy debate is also about the people involved is about the Sanders movement and its viability a the challenge.

3 (17m 46s):
It poses to The Establishment and you seen the different candidates struggles to navigate those Waters how profound The Divide really is. And how little interest they're sort of was in bridging it. What does that actually tell us about what voters feel about say medicare-for-all or Obamacare plus is the support for Biden over Sanders a statement of support for ObamaCare plus over Medicare for all or is it more personality-based? I mean, I don't think it's personality-based. It's in part about the issues and the specifics of you know, free college medicare-for-all, but I think a lot of it and you saw this going back To Clinton Sanders is feelings about the Democratic party as an institution Sanders voters.

3 (18m 33s):
They tend to have a negative assessment of the democratic party and of the political system as a whole their younger on average and they are angry. They like that Sanders is so oppositional to the system then on the other hand. You have a bunch of people who are loyal partisan Democrats older blacker than the Sanders. And see they think the Democratic party is good. They support Democratic Party leaders, Joe Biden at like Hillary Clinton is a top figure in the Democratic party firmament. They trust those people to do the right thing and to try to navigate difficult politics correctly and they want to keep them in charge the Sanders people don't see it that way.

3 (19m 14s):
They are afraid of their Interest being sold out and they want a new group and on top of the pile and they're still about an eight point gap between Bernie and Joe Biden in National polls does Bernie have any tricks up his sleeve to close that Gap, you know one advantage Bernie has is that he is stronger and Iowa New Hampshire than he is nationally, right? So if he can pull off an early win, he may get a boost nationally sort of cruise to Victory. I also do think an edgy has a couple topics on which Biden and Obama are not on the same page. That's the Iraq War and also a bankruptcy bill that that by did in 2005. Those are opportunities for Bernie to And his constituency, you know beyond the sort of Hardcore anti-establishment Aryans.

3 (19m 59s):
Another thing that Bernie Taps into that is Obama like is that he has a very much a message of Hope and empowerment right Sanders, you know, if you ask me about him you a lot of cranky DC people say, you know, he's telling people he's gonna do things that he can't really do on the other hand. I think a lot of people, you know to get involved in the process to come out and vote to come out and volunteer. They want to feel inspired they want To believe that their activism can make a huge difference and Sanders just paint that picture which to me is reminiscent of Obama back in 2007-2008. It makes you feel good about yourself to believe in in the Sanders cause relative to Democrats who are telling you like that's never going to happen.

3 (20m 42s):
That's not going to pass. We've got to be realistic. That's a kind of bummer message. The fact that President Trump, you know called up Ukraine and asked president zalenski to investigate Joe Biden seems to suggest that President Trump would prefer to run against Bernie Sanders. Do we have any idea who between the two candidates would fare better against Donald Trump,

2 (21m 6s):
you know in head-to-head

3 (21m 7s):
polls. It looks like Biden does better than Sanders at the gap between the two of them is not huge though, and these kind of early polls. They have some predictive value, but it's not enormous. So I think it's It's hard to say, I mean you can speculate but I think realistically the biggest issue out here is that Trump is not very popular which makes it vulnerable but his strength is concentrated in the key Electoral College states, which makes them hard to beat and this not that much more you can say Beyond it other than that trumps actions that people's assessment of them will probably matter more than what Democrats do. It feels like the Democratic party right now can't really afford to be fractured.

3 (21m 48s):
There's a a lot of talk about you know, this is the most important election of our lifetimes, etc. Etc. And yet the choice that seems to be in front of this party is between a moderate Obama type and a Democratic Socialist who has you know, what would be considered radical ideas to a lot of Americans. Does that Bode very badly for 2020. I think it's not idea. I mean like a lot of DC inside type people. I was excited intrigued early on by a lot of these. Younger sort of voices in the primary. I thought it would be helpful and constructive for Democrats to nominate someone who is not a self-proclaimed socialist, but who also isn't a pillar of the DC establishment for decades somebody who maybe wasn't around for the Iraq War Vote or didn't support it, but it's just it's turned out that people have fallen not everyone but a lot of Democrats into these kind of old grooves these old lanes that were laid down in the 2016 primary and even though it would be sort of convenient to like move beyond that or or avoid it to a large extent that same fight is just still ongoing.

3 (23m 7s):
Matthew yglesias hosts the weeds podcast along with a couple other box voices. They will be covered in last night's debate on their show today. If you just can't get enough. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained.