1 (3s):
And we're starting with breaking news from Capitol hill, just coming in

2 (7s):
Congress just passed a $1.5 trillion spending bill. Guess how much money was set aside for fighting COVID-19 it's a nice, easy round number, $0, which is strange considering a thousand or so. Americans are still dying a day to figure out what's going on in Washington. I hit up Dr. Ezekiel Emanuel.

3 (27s):
I have no official capacity. He

2 (29s):
Used to work at the white house.

3 (30s):
I happened to be a professor at the university of Pennsylvania.

2 (33s):
It's fair to say the white house picks your brain sometimes,

3 (36s):
Hopefully not in an autopsy kind of way

2 (39s):
Zeke. And some of us health policy pals recently got together. We

3 (42s):
Were not asked by the white house to get together

2 (44s):
And came up with the strategic plan for how the United States can get past the pandemic. And it two costs a nice, easy round number, a hundred billion dollars. We're going to figure out what's up with the discrepancy between the two figures it's today explained. It's an, I explained I'm Sean Ramez from here with Dr. Ezekiel Emanuel professor at the university of Pennsylvania. Dr. Emmanuel is COVID-19 over

3 (1m 20s):
Now,

2 (1m 21s):
But it seems like based on this latest spending bill from Congress, a lot of people are willing to act like it's over.

3 (1m 27s):
Things are improving and improving pretty substantially, but that doesn't mean we're out of COVID that there's not a potential new variant, that there are many people suffering long COVID and there aren't more things we need to do in terms of surveillance, developing therapeutics, getting the next generation of vaccines. And we should remember a year ago in June, July, 2021, it also looked like COVID was receding.

5 (1m 60s):
The CDC, releasing new projections, showing that high vaccination rates could bring a sharp decline in COVID cases by July,

3 (2m 7s):
The number of cases had dropped substantially

6 (2m 9s):
With positivity and deaths have hit all time lows.

3 (2m 14s):
And it was a summertime. People were feeling free

7 (2m 18s):
Summer. That's what the

3 (2m 19s):
People traveled. I myself took my first trip in 18 months, but then wham, the

8 (2m 24s):
Delta variant is fueling a COVID resurgence

3 (2m 27s):
In August. We were hit with Delta that came out of India, and that was quickly followed by AMR crown that came out of South Africa.

9 (2m 34s):
Well, chrom street has now been detected in at least 20 states.

3 (2m 38s):
And so the fact is that we can't be confident and we should not have what we called in our roadmap premature triumphalism that somehow it's behind us. And even if we get past COVID, we should not assume that we're well-prepared for the next infectious pathogen that might afflict the country. That is a lesson and a problem we keep doing. We get past the emergency, and then we forget we don't invest in being better prepared the next time. And I would say to you, the countries that did very, very well in COVID, all of them look at SARS in 2003 and said, whoa, this is a serious potential threat.

3 (3m 20s):
We dodged a bullet.

10 (3m 21s):
Now have Singapore many individuals to have an experience of dealing with an epidemic.

3 (3m 29s):
We're hiring epidemiologists, we're hiring infectious disease, people for our public health

11 (3m 34s):
Western hospital here redesigned their ICU recently was SARS and mine,

3 (3m 39s):
And they did much, much better than the United States. We, on the other hand, showers, no big deal. And we can see that we've had hundreds of thousands of excess deaths by any measure.

2 (3m 53s):
Let's talk about the politics here, because I'm sure you were paying attention last week. How much money did the white house want Congress to deliver on COVID research COVID treatment COVID prevention, whatever it might be.

3 (4m 7s):
Well, I know that internal debate at the white house had put the number above $80 billion, but they were told that's unrealistic. Congress is not going to pass that. They pared it down to 22 and a half billion dollars and Congress pared it back even further to $15 billion. That's not enough. It's just that simple. It's too little.

2 (4m 30s):
And this is 15 billion in a spending bill that ended up being hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars all

3 (4m 36s):
Over $1 trillion.

2 (4m 38s):
And yet it passed with zero of that 15 billion. Is that right?

3 (4m 42s):
Republicans? We're basically, we're not signing on for this bill, with the COVID money, unless paying for that COVID money comes from the money that had already been allocated to the states, which the state hadn't yet spent.

12 (4m 56s):
You have to have six 60 votes in the Senate and it couldn't get 60 votes without taking money out of the state allocations that were in the, that rescue package.

3 (5m 8s):
And the Democrats were no, you're not pulling that money back out of the states. They needed to prepare themselves. And that standoff led the speaker to pull the COVID part of the spending bill out. Yeah.

12 (5m 20s):
The Republican obstruction required that we pass now taking it off this bill to a separate legislation, containing funding to continue the fight against COVID.

2 (5m 30s):
So Republicans essentially wanted to pay for the new COVID-19 spending bill by taking back money that had already been sent out to states in earlier COVID bills.

3 (5m 41s):
Yeah. And Democrats who represented states that hadn't spent the money yet, but we're planning to spend the money and beef up their public health, their schools, and other elements of their COVID response. We're like, no, this money is very important for a comprehensive. I worked in the office of management and budget for two years. This is a classic of, okay, we want to spend this money. Where is the resources going to come from? And the Republicans not want to raise new money or go into deficit for this important element, but wanted to repurpose existing appropriated funds

2 (6m 20s):
And the arguments Republicans made as to why they didn't want to designate any new money towards the pandemic.

3 (6m 27s):
I think they would like to move on from the pandemic. It's not like Republicans have had a very good response to this pandemic. We know that president Trump, he did succeed in facilitating the development of the vaccines in warp speed. And it really was incredibly fast in 10 months. But other than that, the response was pretty poor by any stretch of the imagination.

13 (6m 49s):
Oh, I know it'll go away. Like things go away. Absolutely.

3 (6m 53s):
But the Democrats, I think, recognize that we need a much more systematic, comprehensive response. Not only do we have to respond to the current crisis, we have to plan for future infectious pathogens. We need to have our biosecurity beefed up because it has not been very robust as COVID has shown.

2 (7m 13s):
So with $0 going towards any additional pandemic related issues, where does that leave? All of the initiatives, the white house wants to pursue? Are they sort of dead for the moment?

3 (7m 26s):
Well, there is some money going forward, but it's incredibly, incredibly fragile. So domestically, for example, the ability to send monoclonal antibodies to immunocompromised patients and protect them is threatened

14 (7m 41s):
By may. Our current supply of monoclonal antibodies will stock out

3 (7m 46s):
The ability to provide the antivirals from Pfizer, like plaques of it is also,

14 (7m 52s):
And within weeks, week, sec, expect testing capacity to drop. If additional investments are not made soon. And as I,

3 (7m 59s):
There are lots and lots of things that are threatened. And, and I haven't even spoken about building a new surveillance system or long COVID research that needs to happen globally. It's also a big threat. We've pledged a hundreds of millions and actually more than 1.2 billion vaccines for the globe and the ability to distribute them, deploy them to under vaccinated countries, the resources to do that all run out in a few weeks. If we don't get more money, tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of lives are at stake. And you know, we have to remember, we're almost at 1 million people dying from COVID.

3 (8m 40s):
The economy lost $7.5 trillion. The government had to spend trillions of dollars to keep families and businesses like hospitals, airlines, afloat, you know, a few hundred billion dollars investment may sound like a lot of money, but the return on investment, even if a pandemics, a once in a century event is huge.

2 (9m 3s):
Is Congress only gonna react here? Is it not going to take preventative measures? Is it going to take another variant surgeon case numbers to get funding for COVID-19? Again,

3 (9m 17s):
Let's hope that, but like many things coming down to the wire, the stroke of midnight is what gets people to focus their attention and move. I have a colleague who I'm teaching a course with about how Washington really works. And he says, these near death experiences are necessary for Congress to understand the price or the value of what they're looking at. And I have to hope he's right on COVID that this near death experience, people identifying this as a real threat to the American healthcare system and our ability to fight a next surge. We'll get Congress to understand, you know, we really do need to allocate money.

3 (9m 60s):
We knew need to spend money. 15 billion. In my opinion is not enough in our roadmap. We call for a hundred billion dollars in the first year, and that's really what we need Congress to do. And they need to look deep in their hearts and understand that we need to be prepared as a country. We cannot just stumble along and hope for the best we need to prepare for another surge. That is what prudent businessman would do with their business. That's what prudent households would do with their own homes. And that's what we need our legislators to do for our country.

15 (10m 43s):
Du du, du, du, du, du, du, du.

2 (10m 46s):
Zinc's going to tell us about his plan in a minute on today, explained

American Cancer Society (10m 58s):
This is advertiser content from the American cancer society. Dear black men, I'm here to encourage all my brothers to get screening tests that helps find cancer early. When it might be easier to treat. In 2015, I was diagnosed with colorectal cancer. I had an emergency surgery to move malignant tumor that had ruptured. The real story is that before I had the symptoms, my doctor had been recommending that I get a screening colonoscopy. I kept putting off scheduling it, but I'm glad we caught it before the cancer had spread Today, I'm able to enjoy my family because my cancer was detected early. As black men. We face many systemic social, economic and challenges. According to the American cancer society, black people have the highest death rate and shorter survival rate of any racial ethnic group in the U S for most cancers. But it doesn't have to be this way. Getting regular screenings can help find certain cancers early and can even help prevent colorectal cancer. Listen, my brothers paying attention to our health and wellness. It empowers us to persevere. I'm so blessed to be here today, to share my story with you. Sincerely Dave Ford, To learn more about how the American cancer society is addressing cancer disparities through direct work and communities and investments in making the healthcare system more equitable for patients and their families visit cancer.org/health equity

Novo (12m 47s):
Support for the show. And he comes from Novo. Novo is a business banking platform built for small business owners. Unlike the traditional banking model, Novo has no minimum balances, no transaction limits, no hidden fees. A lot of no's they're kind of like vote. You see what they're doing there, you can join over 150,000 small businesses. They say who found the customizable business checking solution to their banking problem. You can sign up right now for a free business checking account at novo.com/explained+today, explain this was get access to over $5,000 in perks and discounts. That is N O V O dot C O slash explained to sign up for free novo.com/explained Novo platform, Inc is a thin tech, not a pink banking services provided by Middlesex federal savings, FFA member FDI, see terms and conditions apply.

2 (13m 50s):
Just say, no, Back in early January, Dr. <em></em> Emmanuel got a group of colleagues together to rethink the nation's approach to COVID-19.

3 (14m 7s):
When we did this at the start of 2022, the white house was working 24 7, trying to address Elma Cron, trying to make sure there were enough tests and vaccines and treatments out there. They were busy. I've been in that role. I know how busy it is, the ability to step back and say, okay, let's take the big picture. That's very hard during that blizzard of activity, that's needed to address an acute crisis. And so we put together these people and said, all right, what would a comprehensive response to COVID be over the next 12 months? What should our strategic goals be? And what should the initial steps along those strategic goals be?

2 (14m 46s):
So tell me in full here, what the plan you came up with looks like and what it calls for.

3 (14m 52s):
How much time do you have Shawn? It's 136 page plan. It's got 250 recommendations from indoor air quality,

18 (15m 2s):
Immediately funds school systems to make needed improvements in ventilation and air filtration

3 (15m 7s):
Masking and getting enough PPE.

18 (15m 10s):
Why don't you? CDC led public education program on how to select and use an N 95 or similar respirator

3 (15m 17s):
Scenes therapeutics testing and surveillance

18 (15m 20s):
Require hospitals, laboratories, and other health facilities to report all respiratory viral test results,

3 (15m 26s):
Long COVID workforce and the healthcare system, because that's a rate limiting step for having enough beds and being able to respond to searches, okay.

18 (15m 35s):
That healthcare facilities, employee health plans, fully cover mental health care,

3 (15m 39s):
Public health infrastructure to be built for the next pandemic

18 (15m 43s):
Fund, the recruitment and training of permanent public health workers to bring the workforce up to requisite size.

3 (15m 49s):
We also argue that next generation vaccines, mucosal, vaccines, vaccines that are good for COVID good for other respiratory illnesses like flu or RSV. We need to develop those. We can't rest on the kind of antiviral drugs we have. We need a multi-drug cocktail, just like we have for HIV, where you take three drugs at one time, you need the same thing for this virus. Otherwise it will mutate and be resistant to the drugs and we can't afford that. So it's a pretty comprehensive approach that we need going forward.

2 (16m 27s):
And how does that compare to say the ambitions of the white house? Do you know?

3 (16m 32s):
Yes. We spent hours working with the white house and briefing them. And I like to say we're on the same road and we're going in the same direction. We have slightly different ways of looking at things in some areas. And that's partly because they're focused on the federal government and we have a wider purview. So some of our recommendations, for example, our focus on localities change your building codes so that all new commercial buildings have Merv 13 filters or better. We have suggestions for school boards, make sure that the air quality in your schools is improve. And if you can't change the central heating and air conditioning systems put in HEPA filters and individual classrooms.

3 (17m 16s):
So our purview could be slightly bigger than the white house, which is really focused on the federal government.

2 (17m 22s):
But in terms of things like treatment or, or say research on long COVID, the white house is on the same page.

3 (17m 30s):
Again, I think it's fair to say that, yes, we're on the same road going in the same direction. I would say we might be a little more aggressive and suggesting we need to move faster and suggesting very particular changes we might do like long COVID is one area where we think we need to be much more aggressive and much more urgent. We're kind of doing things on academic times. And I'm an academic saying that we need to do it on, this is a public health emergency time and we need results ASAP, and we need to enroll people much, much faster.

2 (18m 3s):
Can you tell me a bit about why more research, more spending more studies on long COVID is so essential?

3 (18m 11s):
Well, first of all, we don't know how many people actually have long COVID, but if even 2% of the population has long COVID and that's on the very low end of estimates, we're talking about 1.4 million people who have this very debilitating set of symptoms, fatigue, brain fog, inability to exercise, and many other potential symptoms. It could be as high as, you know, seven or 10 million Americans. That's a huge number to be disabled by this illness. Lots of people are fearful of it. And a lot of people between 25 and 30% of the population that appears are very, very nervous and will not do things like take off their mask, go to indoor restaurants, begin to resume a normal life unless we understand better and can tell them what the risks of long COVID are and the things they can do to minimize that risk.

2 (19m 5s):
And you all estimate that this whole thing will cost about a hundred billion dollars.

3 (19m 8s):
Well, for the whole thing, initially, a hundred billion dollars in the first year and then $30 billion in years, two and three, and then $15 billion over each year. Subsequently that's not a whole lot of money. When you think about we're a country of 330 million people. And as I said, you know, this pandemic alone has cost $7.5 trillion in loss, economic activity. Not to mention the million people who've died in the hundreds of thousands or millions who probably have long COVID.

2 (19m 39s):
Okay, so you and a bunch of people who understand public health, and even, it sounds like people who understand federal budgets got together and came up with this figure a hundred billion dollars in spending for 2022 to focus on a whole host of concerns surrounding this pandemic. The number Congress came up with last week is $0. How do you reconcile where you're at and where they're at?

3 (20m 5s):
Wow, they're headed for a disaster, especially if we have another surge sometime in the next 12 months. And we think that if we invested our money, we'd be much better prepared for a, another surge, but also put in the infrastructure to prepare us down the road for any infectious pathogen that might pop up. And we don't know what it might be.

2 (20m 28s):
And it's a lot of the Republicans in Congress who are vociferously against spending any more on COVID-19. If Republicans take control of Congress in November, is that presumably what the end of COVID spending full stop?

3 (20m 43s):
I, I fear that, but I also would remind the public that it, the Republicans under president Trump, who got rid of the biosecurity expert at the national security console, just before COVID struck, the Republicans have not generally been good about spending necessary for combating infectious pathogens and preparing the country for, you know, a biosecurity threat. And I don't have a lot of confidence that they've changed their attitude.

2 (21m 16s):
It seems like the issue that you're up against here is that generally people are just sick of talking about this pandemic. They're sick of dealing with this pandemic. They're sick of regulations, obviously surrounding this pandemic. How do you sell this story? How do you sell this, this program, this vision for the country to spend billions of dollars to invest in prevention and treatment when there's less and less appetite to even talk about this thing?

3 (21m 45s):
Well, I hope I don't look like a marketing professor to you because I'm not how I sell it is not my expertise. And I can tell you, one of the things I do think is important is to emphasize that this is part of larger national security biosecurity, and we do need to be prepared for that. Ukraine has made quite clear, we're entering a very scary period going forward of great international and global tension. And you know, many commentators think that one of the reasons the Russians thought they could get away with invading Ukraine is that we, the United States were back on our heels. We were not doing well as a result of COVID and the misinformation around COVID and that they could take advantage of that weakness.

3 (22m 32s):
We really cannot afford to be weak in this area. If we really want to be, you know, the world superpower, we have to be strong across the board. And this is one major area biosecurity and COVID is just an example of how bad things can be. If we're not well-prepared,

2 (22m 52s):
You know, we're speaking just around two years to the day, since the United States shut down. Since there were shutdowns around the world, when people really realized how grave a situation we were in, do you feel like, at least in the United States, we've learned some lessons.

3 (23m 14s):
I hope we've learned some lessons. I think as you've pointed out, we are fatigued. We all want this to go away. I can tell you, I just spent part of my morning. It's like, you know, let's dream about where we might travel. If things actually are good during the summer, I'm like everyone else, I am ready to get beyond COVID. And the best way to get beyond COVID is actually to make some investments to put it in the rear view mirror. And those investments require, you know, better vaccines, better therapeutics, better surveillance. You can't move beyond it unless you actually do certain things to make the situation substantially better for COVID.

3 (23m 57s):
But also for the next bio threat, whether that's another respiratory virus or something we haven't dreamed of yet.

2 (24m 13s):
One more question, before we go, if you had to give the United States a great, not just the former president, but this one all told so far two years in on how it's handled the pandemic, what would the grade be

3 (24m 23s):
An overall great value? Really making me act like a professor. I think we could probably get a, a, a, B minus

2 (24m 32s):
A B minus

3 (24m 33s):
B minus

2 (24m 34s):
Not as bad as I thought you might. You might say, well,

3 (24m 37s):
Look, Let's be clear. We led the world of getting effective vaccines in rapid order. We've led the world in getting antivirals. And some of these monoclonals that is I think very, very good and important. Most of the other things we haven't done very, very well at. And I think we need to do much, much better at so may, maybe I'm grading on a curve. I don't know.

2 (25m 11s):
Dr. <em></em> Emmanuel is a professor at the university of Pennsylvania. He does not work for the white house. You can read his strategic cobot plan@covidroadmap.org. Today's episode was produced by will read edited by Matthew Collette fact-checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul mousey and a FIM Shapiro. I'm Sean Rama's from it is today explained.