0 (7s):
It is

1 (7s):
Today Explained I'm Sean ramen is from what a year this week has been, but the outgoing president is facing consequences. And I'm not talking about impeachment. I'm talking about something he cares about. They took away his Twitter remember back in 2016, when the guy behind at a real Donald Trump became the president. What a time, that guy who used to tweet about whether Robert Pattinson should dump Kristin Stewart while calling Obama a Kenyan is now gonna run the country. And unlike Barack Obama, who I'm sure to the chagrin of Donald Trump has always had way more followers on Twitter. Trump very much attempted to run the country on the social media platform.

1 (50s):
Probably don't need to remind you, but for, for head spinning years, Trump has announced policy threatened war fired. People, hired people. <inaudible> moved markets, blasted the Media freed ASAP, Rocky and promoted his business interests, family cronies, and lied and lied and lied from his telephone. It's fair to say that if it weren't for Twitter Donald Trump may never have even become the president of the United States. And now his presidency is ending as his, his Twitter. It really seems like January 6th was the final straw for companies that had been on the fence for a long time, a about what to do about an elected official, the most powerful person in the world who was arguably using the platform to incite violence.

1 (1m 41s):
Casey Newton, he's the editor of a newsletter called Platformer perfect person to explain what's happening with the platforms and while a number of platforms hailed at it differently, he responded at different times, use slightly different justifications. At the end of the day, it was the fact that the President incited an attack on his own government that finally gave them all of the institutional confidence to say, we have to get this person off of our platforms

0 (2m 10s):
And who leads the charge. So

1 (2m 14s):
Trump went to the rally and encouraged his followers to March on the Capitol. He posted a tweets, you know, including one in which he said, remember this day forever, which really felt like he was celebrating the attack

0 (2m 28s):
As a fraudulent election, but we can't play into the hands of these people. We have to have peace. So go home. We love you. You're very special.

1 (2m 41s):
And after that Twitter or suspended Trump for 12 hours, a Facebook Then suspended to Trump's account indefinitely, or at least four the next two weeks. So that was sort of the initial thing that happened on Thursday. And as it is suspended, President Trump on Twitter or the platform also deleted suspended, made invisible three of his tweets, I believe, is that right? Yes. A three that were directly related to the Capitol attack they removed and they told the President that he himself would have to go and remove those tweets if he wanted his account to be restored.

1 (3m 21s):
And his account is eventually restored. Yes, the following day, somewhat strangely, I think put her, allowed the president to come back. But in his following to tweets, Twitter concluded that they contained a risk to incite further violence. And that became the true final straw for Twitter and so on. Friday it banned him permanently. Mr. Trump lost to his primary megaphone overnight when Twitter permanently shut down his personal account, breaking off his connection to nearly 90 million followers. Let's talk about the two tweets. What did they say? So the, the final two tweets are on their face. They might seem relatively innocuous. The first one said that the, the Patriots who, who voted for him will have a quote giant voice log into the future.

1 (4m 8s):
And he said they will not be disrespected or treated unfairly in any way, shape or form. And then he followed up by saying that he would not be going to the inauguration on January 20th. And Twitter posted essentially at analysis of these tweets and said that a combined with what the President had said and their own intelligence about what right-wing extremists are currently planning. They thought that among other things, the president is saying that he was not going to be at the inauguration, could of been interpreted as a go-ahead for extremists to try to disrupt the inauguration because Trump himself would not be there.

1 (4m 49s):
And so it would be safe. And so those were among the reasons that Twitter said that these tweets were the last straw and what happens after Twitter bans President Trump on Friday. Then the day of the great, the great Deplatforming,

3 (5m 13s):
Which is disabled president Trump's account as well or YouTube says it's accelerating its enforcement of voter fraud, planes pulling down videos from Trump

2 (5m 22s):
President Trump got banned or restricted from almost every platform that most people use, but Pinterest, if it'd be on <inaudible> board, you want to be looking for normal insurrection pie recipes. You going to make your own white chocolate, white power pancakes. None of them

3 (5m 39s):
The read it. It says it's taking action on a reported violations of its content policies, which prohibit the incitement of violence, Tik TOK, also banning videos of Trump's speeches from yesterday, as well as hashtags, such as storm the Capitol for

1 (5m 54s):
The last 72 hours. We've just platform after platform come forward and take some sort of action effecting the President. In some cases, his accounts or being removed communities associated with the President are being removed in a amazing wave. It's a historic moment. No doubt. One that will be discussed for some time to come. Unsurprisingly. The second hand happens on Friday. You have a lot of people from the right, the president's son

4 (6m 29s):
Twitter permanently banned my father from its platform. Think about that. If they can ban the president of the United States, who can't they ban, I mean, I know the Ayatollah is on there and he's said publicly, he wants to eliminate it. The state of Israel he'd nuke them. If he could, that's not banned a regime that take homosexuals and throw them off of building rooftops. They are not banned.

1 (7m 2s):
This is in his band, the Chinese communist party, which puts weekers and forced labor camps is still allowed to tweet it's inconsistent, right? Sure. Because content moderation is never going to be consistent. And that's the way it drives people. Insane. There are exceptions, there are special cases. You know, ultimately our democracy depends on a stable government that has free and fair elections that are respected by the winners and the losers. And if the president is going to come in and mountain attack on his own government, I argue he has lost any legitimate claim to power. And if he planned to continue using his access to platforms, including Twitter to foment further violence, he is effectively making Twitter complicit in all of that future violence.

1 (7m 53s):
And most of Twitter, his employees want no part of that. Now you can say accurately that there are other places in the world where violence is being fomented on Twitter and Twitter is complicit in that. And yes, that is true. But to use that as an excuse, not to stop, one of the most prominent cases have it from happening, I think is not sense. Hmm. Okay. But what about all of the other times Donald Trump has incited violence on Twitter? Did Twitter address all this stuff? They let slide for four years or so. There was the, when the looting starts, the shooting starts post. Yeah,

5 (8m 32s):
There, it is referring to something that Miami, his police chief said in 1968, when there were a protest at an RNC convention, he said when the alluding starts, the shooting starts, that was a threat back then a statement about getting tough back in 1968. And it has a vial threat tonight.

1 (8m 52s):
It was the liberate Michigan post from a later in 2020. Yeah,

6 (8m 58s):
That's right. Well, if president Trump appears to be stoking on rest and States around the U a, a U S where conservative demonstrators are protesting against social distancing measures, the president is tweeting to supporters to liberate places like Minnesota, Michigan, and Virginia. One day after he told the governors, they were calling the shots on re-opening the country,

1 (9m 18s):
Which eventually led to a plot to kidnap the governor of Michigan. So yes, at any point along the way, Twitter could have come along and they could have banned president Trump. And that would have been there right as a private corporation. But I think that there would have been a lot of justifiable concern about what that meant. So no Twitter did not do a blog post where they said, look, this guy is spent on our lists for a long time, and we've just been waiting for an excuse to kick them off. They did not say that instead of they focused narrowly on what happened on January 6th. And, you know, I, I think that that was actually appropriate, right? It it's, it's fascinating to me how many people want to skip over the fact that we had an attempted to in this country and get really into like the, you know, the platform specifics, like it is okay to say this person inside a coup against the United States.

1 (10m 11s):
And therefore we are removing him from the platform and not site, you know, 40 pages of previous bad tweets, a to justify it. And the argument that Twitter and Facebook waited until the President last reelection until a, the Democrats had finally secured the majority in the Senate. And of course the house, the, the, the, the argument that this was just finally politically expedient at the end of the day, the man was the duly elected president of the United States. He had an entire media ecosystem around him. And even if you want it to ban him on principle practically, I don't think it would of made that much of a difference because he would have moved to another platform or some sort of bot would have scraped that platform and immediately re posted whatever you said directly to Twitter.

1 (10m 57s):
And so this idea that we would have been able to escape Trump on the Twitter while he was the President, I truly do believe it is a fantasy. And so I actually think that it was precisely because he was leaving power and losing power that made this decision more palatable, because he could no longer fall back on the excuse that well, I'm the leader of the free world. And therefore I should maintain this direct line to my followers by inciting and attack on his own government. I think he gave up any legitimate claim to power and all that being said any way you slice it Facebook and Twitter are now banning president Trump after benefiting from him for four years.

1 (11m 47s):
Yes. It is also indisputable that these platforms have benefited being a, a, a, a thriving hotbed of discussion about the President and his tweets, of course, that has not been limited to Facebook and Twitter Trump has been a pretty hot topic everywhere for these past, you know, five plus years, but Twitter in particular, I think really cemented itself as the heartbeat of the global news cycle, precisely because Trump did use it to dictate everything from a policy measures to a cabinet members that he was firing, and the list goes on.

1 (12m 27s):
So, you know, there, I saw Today a Twitter stock actually went down on the news that, that they had banned Trump, you know, the assumption being that people are going to use it less,

7 (12m 37s):
No, after the break

1 (12m 45s):
We're all of these people are going

7 (13m 0s):
<inaudible>

8 (13m 7s):
Casey if Twitter is no longer

1 (13m 10s):
A destination for the outgoing president or his followers, where will they go? So they will probably go to what we're now sort of calling alt platforms, these kind of a spin-offs that you use a slightly different ideology around content moderation to try to attract more conservative voices

8 (13m 32s):
Facebook and Twitter face criticism for how they moderated content during the 2020 election. When you were president Trump's supporters are flocking to a different social media.

1 (13m 41s):
Gab was the first one of these that we saw in a big way, but then more recently parlor came along parlor, which is funny.

8 (13m 47s):
No it's itself is a free speech space. Yeah.

1 (13m 50s):
And had some sort of deeper pockets behind it, backed financially by billionaire Robert bursar's daughter, Rebecca Mercer, a major Republican

8 (13m 58s):
Donor who has given millions to conservative

1 (14m 0s):
Causes. And for the past few months has been making a concerted effort to court, the conservative community, and present itself as an alternative to what a conservative see as censorship on the big platforms,

8 (14m 13s):
Big tech has shown the ability to shadow ban or to silence, whatever you say, whatever you post that's, why I'm proud to Join parlor. This platform gets what free speech is all about.

1 (14m 27s):
And parlor was in the news a bunch over the past few days. So let's talk a bit more about this platform for everyone who hasn't yet had the pleasure of what exactly is it, what does it look like? What does it feel like? So imagine like a really buggy Twitter clone were mostly conservatives posts. Like when you go to create an account, the suggested user list is Sean Hannity. It's Dinesh D'Souza, it's the Epic times, all of these kind of conservative mainstays. And as you scroll through the feed, you'll just see the sort of most hyper-partisan conservative hosts that you can imagine. And what kind of bump does parlor get?

1 (15m 7s):
Last week as the president is being deep platform from Facebook and Twitter, it explodes every conservative media personality is telling their followers, go to the parlor right now, create an account right now. I might not even be on Twitter tomorrow.

9 (15m 23s):
I want everybody on Twitter to hashtag and open up their POL or account as quickly as they can. And also tell, remind people are moving from Twitter to a parlor or moving to a parlor or moving to.

1 (15m 34s):
So they create the sense of emergency around, you know, follow me on parlor right now, or, or, or we may lose each other forever. And as a result, parlor sees hundreds of thousands of downloads. The, the, the site basically buckles under the weight of all the new user is it becomes, you know, incredibly budgie and, and, and it doesn't even load for a lot of people. So parlor has a big moment over the weekend, but the boom is short-lived because Apple and Google almost immediately turned around and banned parlor from their app stores. Yeah. So what happens is that many users of parlor use it to further inflame tensions, stoke hatred, and promote violence, right?

1 (16m 15s):
There are now new attacks that are being threatened online against the government. They are happening on Parlour and parlor buy, and large has not been removing them. Now, traditionally, we've left it up to individual social networks to police themselves and decide when a post goes beyond the pail, right? And less something is truly illegal. We leave it alone. But in this particularly high profile case where the government of the United States is under a credible threat, you've started to see platforms further up in the stack, come in and say, no, we are not going to countenance this because we do not want to be handmaidens to terrorism.

9 (17m 0s):
Amazon web services says it will suspend these social media app parlor from its server. This after Apple and Google remove the relatively new platform from their stores. Amazon says parlor has violated its terms of service by continuing to allow violent content to be posted.

1 (17m 17s):
Okay. And so at some point, you know, on Monday, it will be gone. I heard that it's already gone. Casey wow. Can you play an angel by Sarah McLaughlin under the rest of this conversation? We've just done it. We've cracked that joke recently. So actually, can you, can you play a good reference time of your life by green day under the rest of this conversation, or crack that joke to a man? Can you play that? See you again, songs from the faster and the soundtrack under this conversation, we can,

10 (17m 53s):
It spans without you and my friend, Hannah, I'll tell you about it. When I see you

1 (18m 5s):
Can, the outgoing president just create his own social media platform. Yeah. It turns out the outgoing president has a lot of things he could do. He could live stream on one of his aides phones. He could call a press conference. He could appear on any nightly TV newscast. He could call into Fox and friends. Nobody has more options to communicate with a huge number of people than the president of the United States. Right? And so that's why some of this discussion around the silencing of president Trump is absurd. And it's frankly bizarre that Southern with as many options to communicate as he has, is so fixated on this one particular health site Casey or yelling, sorry,

10 (18m 49s):
It's come a long way from where we began. Oh, well,

1 (19m 3s):
So just for the time being Donald Trump is nowhere to be seen on Twitter nowhere to be seen on Facebook parlors gone, where are all of his followers and you know, himself gonna go to me, this is the really tough question that the platforms are facing because you can get rid of the president's account. But this big lie that is being told that the election was stolen. That's not going anywhere. And I think it's probably going to be reinforced over and over again over the next weeks and months and years. And it's not just going to be average citizens that are saying this.

1 (19m 45s):
It is our elected officials. We already have so many Republicans now that are repeating this big lie over and over again. And it is incredibly destructive and it's tearing our country apart. And yet platforms do not have rules against lying. Right. They've said over and over again, they do not want to weigh in on these sort of political disputes for good reasons, I think, but this is such a tricky thing, because if this big lie takes root in the United States, it, it, it is going to create division. And I think promote violence, like nothing that we have seen up to this point. So that is something that really scares me. And I don't think that there is a great answer to how platforms would he handle it.

1 (20m 26s):
Yeah, I get that. We might be living with this lie of a stolen election for a very long time. And the outgoing president will perpetuate that life for a very long time, even once he leaves office, but in the interim right now, you know, while this assault on American democracy is still very much alive and active and scary, where are these people going plan their next insurrection? I think most of these folks are going to try to see what they can get away with on, on Facebook and Twitter and Instagram. You know, the places where they've been most comfortable if they get gradually kicked off of that platform. I do think another one will emerge. I think some enterprising entrepreneur will figure out a home.

1 (21m 9s):
They we'll have to do content moderation. It will not be a place where people can just foam in a rage and murder, but if they do a, maybe 30 to 40% better job than parlor did, then I think it can exist and we'll have an audience. You know, I wrote a few weeks back when parlor first had a surge of interest is a Fox news of social networks and evitable. And I, and I wrote that. I believe that it is a, for exactly this reason, you know, it in human society, we're not used to having one set of rules to govern every single person, right. We gather into tribes that have our own values and belief systems. And it just feels like something that is going to play out on social networks.

1 (21m 51s):
And so this might be a bit of a cycle we're in where Apple, Google, Amazon are sort of having to police these platforms. Yes. And again, I think it's warranted because people are talking about overthrowing the government. So if there was ever going to be a time where you were going to have an opinion, that would probably be the time, but the, hopefully these conversations are going to downshift. They're going to become less fraught. They're still going to be a danger in them, but platforms will not have that immediate justification of in order to prevent imminent violence. We are going to act. And that's when it all gets murky and complicated. And I think creates an opening for a Fox news of social networks to emerge.

1 (22m 33s):
It just feels like there's a choice to be made here that, you know, none of us are powerful enough to make, but it's between keeping all of this hatred and, and, and insurrection in the public so that there is light on it on Twitter and Facebook or pushing it underground where no one sees it. And there's comparisons you could make here to illicit drug use or sex work, which is policed really heavily on places like Instagram and Twitter. Obviously it doesn't put an end to sex work.

1 (23m 13s):
Yeah. You know, unfortunately, having all of this discussion around the election, out in the lights did not allow the truth to shine through. You know, that's not to say that discussion should be driven under ground or that it will be better off if it is. But I don't think you can just say, well, you know, we have to leave the stuff in the open to prevent violence, because the most important thing to remember about these platforms is that they have amplification mechanics in that, right? If, if it's you and I talking on the phone, no one is going to be radicalized by that. But if I post on Facebook and it gets shared a million times, all of a sudden I could have an outsized effect on the world around me.

1 (23m 54s):
So that's why we ask these platforms to take an extra level of responsibility beyond what we would from other communications platforms. And how do you see the next few weeks and months going where these, these platforms are going to be called out for policing speech, for deciding who gets to play and who doesn't, I'm sure we're going to hear a ton of grievance. We're going to have a lot of really important debates over whether platforms should have this kind of power, how they should be regulated. You know, I'm not upset that the president is losing these platforms because he has so many, but if you're an average person, the fact that you can be essentially wiped off the internet and have no means of recourse, if it happens to you, that should scare you.

1 (24m 44s):
Right. And you can argue that being able to lead a life online is a, a kind of a necessary part of the human experience for most of us right now. And maybe you do want some rules around who can be Platformer. Oh, and do you know whether you should maybe have the right to appeal or have your, your case heard by a court of law, right? There's a, there's kind of a whole universe of questions around justice that come out of this that I think are really important, even though I don't think this particular case was that close to have a call Casey Newton is the editor of Platformer. It's a newsletter all about our social media platforms and their influence on our democracy.

1 (25m 26s):
You can find it at Platformer dot News. Since we spoke with Casey this morning parlor sued Amazon for antitrust violation, breach of contract and unlawful business interference. It's asking a federal judge to order Amazon to reinstate the platform instead of the Explained

7 (25m 46s):
<inaudible> hi, I'm Avery.

7 (26m 28s):
Truffleman the host of the cut, a new podcast from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network. Every Wednesday, we work to explore important provocative ideas about the world around us. So far, we've discussed what it's like to

11 (26m 44s):
Move back into your parent's house and why that's actually an incredible and empowering thing to do. We've also talked about what it means to be a radical in society, expects you to be practical and pragmatic.

7 (26m 57s):
We'd love for you to join us, subscribe to the cut in your favorite podcast app to get new episodes each week.