0 (1s):
The last time a man named Ferdinand, Marcos won a presidential election in the Philippines. In 1986, there was overwhelming evidence that election was rigged. Filipinos were furious. They went out into the streets and booted Marcos who fled to Hawaii 36 years later, Marcos Redux

2 (24s):
Unofficial results suggest Ferdinand Marcos junior, widely known as Bongbong will receive more than double the votes of his main rival. The outgoing vice-president

0 (34s):
Bum bunks father ran the Philippines as a dictator, rewriting laws, vanishing and torturing his opponents stealing among other things. Bong bongs running mate, Sarah Duterte Carpio is the daughter of the current president, the volatile, and some say unhinged, Rodrigo Duterte coming up on today explained how did these two, when

3 (1m 0s):
This podcast is brought to you by America's beverage companies who are working together to reduce plastic waste in our environment, not all plastic is the same at the Coca-Cola company. Keurig Dr. Pepper and Pepsi co bottles are made to be remained. These companies are carefully designing their bottles to be 100% recyclable, including the caps. They're also investing in community recycling improvements so that every recycled bottle can become a new one that helps complete the circle and reduce plastic waste one to help them get every bottle back, visit every bottle back.org.

4 (1m 37s):
Dakota is a show about how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong. Hosted by me, Neil Patel editor in chief of the verge. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts, new episodes come out. Every Tuesday

0 (2m 19s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king, Ashley Westerman, freelance reporter in the Philippines. You were covering that very big election this week, who were the candidates that voters in the Philippines were choosing among.

6 (2m 30s):
So Noel, it was actually a gigantic election.

3 (2m 34s):
Good,

7 (2m 34s):
Good morning. It's a may nine election day here in the Philippines. Voting begins and an hour for more than 65 million registered for

6 (2m 42s):
Everything from Senate seats, mayoral seats. And of course the highest office in the land, the president and 10 people were running for president. It was quite a star studded roster in included the actor, a world-renowned boxer, and even, you know, a former Philippines police, but the two main front runners were current vice-president Lynnie. Robredo commonly referred to as the opposition leader. Her party has not been in power over the last six years. And she has spent her time over the last administration, constantly clashing with the current Philippine president, Rodrigo Duterte, her front runner competition was Ferdinand Marcos, Jr.

6 (3m 24s):
Who's also known by his childhood nickname, BombBomb

0 (3m 28s):
Brilliant Marcos Jr. Is the son of Ferdinand Marcos senior, who was a dictator of the Philippines. What is his father's legacy in, in that country?

6 (3m 39s):
Yeah, so it depends on who you ask, which is a new thing here in the Philippines. Huh? So Ferdinand Marcos senior was elected president in 1965 and he actually stayed president for over 20 years until he was ousted by the people power revolution in 1986. Now, how did he manage to stay president for so long? Well, in 1972, mark was actually declared martial law.

8 (4m 8s):
I have received hundreds and hundreds of telegrams from all corners of the Philippines, congratulating you and incidentally me for the proclamation of martial law for the sudden cessation of,

6 (4m 23s):
And that extended his rule beyond the, at the time constitutional to term limit. And this martial law was in place for years. And during the Marcos regime, you know, it's, well-documented that he abused his powers. He did things like detained political opponents and other dissidents. He curtailed and censored the press. Another sort of, part of his legacy during this time was the economy.

9 (4m 48s):
There's mostly agrarian nation is nearly bankrupt losing not only money, but also its most valuable asset. It's people. Where

10 (4m 56s):
Are you going tonight?

11 (4m 57s):
Call in Dubai.

10 (4m 59s):
You're going to Kuwait. So daddy, why can't you work here in Manila

12 (5m 4s):
There?

6 (5m 7s):
And you know, during this time the Marco's just racked up incredible debt. He was putting into place, all these economic development projects, trying to pretend like he was, you know, doing something and the debt totaled like 30 billion us dollars and they're still paying it off today. So like more than 30 years later, it's crazy. Also the family is accused of stealing as well from the Philippine people, 10 billion us dollars. And so far only about half of that has been recovered In the end. Marcos was ousted in on February 25th, 1986, which is a national holiday here.

6 (5m 47s):
And that marks the day when millions, millions of Filipinos took to the streets And what is known as the people power revolution, like I said, or the yellow revolution over through the family and they went into exile.

0 (6m 3s):
Ashley, did you talk to people during your reporting who remember the Marcos dictatorship?

6 (6m 8s):
Yes I did. I even have people in my own family who remember that time, someone I did speak with she's a political scientist at university of Philippines Stillman. Her name is Maria Ella at T Enza. She was actually born the year martial law was declared and she grew up in this province outside of Metro Manila called Batangas.

14 (6m 28s):
I remember March where we did not have electricity. I also remember very poor road at that time.

6 (6m 37s):
And this is because the Marcos government was, was not doing anything for the people. So it's probably no surprise that she thinks that the election of another Marcos is really, really bad for the country, but there's, you know, another take on the Marcos regime, Ferdinand Loretta, he's a businessman in Metro Manila and he runs a popular pro Marcos Facebook group.

15 (7m 1s):
If you were already alive during the time of Marcos, you wouldn't agree that there was an abuse of authority or there was a views, a rule of Marcos.

6 (7m 12s):
He spoke with my assistant Bernard custodial.

15 (7m 15s):
Marcus is pro-peace. I don't see him as like the Hitler or I know. So he wouldn't wouldn't let bloodshed no.

0 (7m 23s):
What ends up happening then to Ferdinand Marcos Sr.

6 (7m 27s):
Well, as I mentioned before, his family was overthrown in 1986, they fled to Hawaii and you have to remember bomb bomb. His son was not a child at the time. He was actually 28 and you know, the former dictator, the father ultimately died in 1989 in Honolulu. After nearly a year of being in the hospital, he had various complications.

16 (7m 55s):
It was several hours after Ferdinand. Marcos died of a cardiac arrest before Imelda Marcos, tears streaming from behind her sunglasses left the hospital with her daughter, Irene and son, bong, bong.

6 (8m 6s):
His body was actually eventually flown back to the Philippines in, in 2006. And he was buried in the cemetery of heroes here in Manila. Bongbong returned in the early 1990s. And he actually got back into politics. He's elected as a Congressman. He was elected as a governor again and he later, you know, became a Senator and he was a Senator until he chose to run for vice president in the last election. So 2016 and he actually lost that race to the one and only Lenny Roberto.

0 (8m 40s):
Okay. The woman who ran against him in this presidential election. So, so let's, let's talk about how he redeemed himself, if at all, is he a different kind of politician than his father?

6 (8m 50s):
Yes, he is a very different type of politician. From what I understand from the experts I've spoke with. When he came back to the Philippines after exile, there was a, you know, I've heard there was no arrogance in him. He was just a politician. He didn't make a lot of noise. He really couldn't because the family, you know, had just been through everything it had been through, but he was also, you know, Noel, not a very effective politician. He had no real major accomplishments during his time in Congress

0 (9m 21s):
When he decides to run for president what's this platform.

6 (9m 24s):
So when Bongbong declared his intention to run for president in October of 21, he said he wanted to unite the leadership to lift the country out of the economic slump caused by the pandemic.

17 (9m 37s):
I know that it is this manner of unifying leadership that can lead us through this crisis, get our people safely back to work for all of us to begin to live our lives once again.

6 (9m 51s):
But what is his platform? That's so really good question. And even though the election is over Noel, we're still sort of asking that. So he had this message of unity, but it had very, very few specifics. I've done a lot of research. I've talked to a lot of experts. I've talked to a lot of people and you know, there's just very few things that people can pinpoint that he actually like wanted to do like a policy or a rule or a law or whatever. But somehow this very, a morphous message of unity played well with millions of disillusioned Filipinos. I think the best way to sort of compare this Noel is Trump's make America great, again, message.

6 (10m 35s):
Right? Like it was very a morphous there weren't a lot of details in it and people could just like make up whatever they thought would make America great again. And I think that's exactly what happened here in the Philippines is there were no specifics to this unity message, right? And so people could just imagine what he could do to, to unite everybody and bring everyone together.

0 (10m 56s):
What's been going wrong in the Philippines that would make a guy without a real platform, but with a vague message. So appealing.

6 (11m 5s):
Yeah. So the last six years have been very, very divisive.

18 (11m 9s):
Hitler massacred, 3 million Jews. Now there is 3 million, 3 million regarded. There are, I'd be happy to snuck that in there.

6 (11m 23s):
President Rodrigo Duterte is a loose cannon he's crass.

18 (11m 29s):
I would feel only making the delightful, the Filipino miserable

6 (11m 35s):
It's he made a bunch of policy changes that a lot of people were just not on board with and it divided the country pretty badly. And I guess all Filipinos one is just to be United again. And the whole idea Bongbong Marcos and his, his running mate, Sarah Duterte. Who's the daughter of the current president is that you have a family from the north, the Marcoses and a family from the south, the Duterte tase, and they're going to unite the country. Right. And we're all going to get along again. And we're all going to get past COVID and get out of this economic slump because we can all come together again under this wa under the banner of this, of these two political dynasties

0 (12m 23s):
Along the way during his candidacy, did Bongbong Marcos ever just say, I'm sorry for what my father did.

6 (12m 29s):
No, he's never offered an apology. And if anything, he and other members of the family say they're being accused of things unfairly. There's no reason to, to answer these questions or, or address these accusations because they're based on things that happened in the past,

19 (13m 1s):
Check out these courts, Chopin made that sound famous in his funeral March, but it's actually the same chords that are found in Nirvana's song, something in the way This 180 year old ominous chord progression resonates with Cobain's melancholy lyrics. And the sound is connecting with listeners still today. Something in the way climbed billboards hot 100 and March, 2022 marketing. The fifth time Nirvana has been on the chart just like today. Explain breaks down the days. Latest stories switched on pop does the same for today's songs because it's not just Nirvana.

19 (13m 46s):
That's having a resurgence. The angst, the sounds of nineties alternative music has made a comeback. The genres anti-corporate perspective, which developed out of the excesses of the eighties is a fitting backdrop to contemporary activists attitudes. This genre is back, but it's taken on a new sound with new faces. The second time around subscribe to switched on pop and discover the new alternative I'm cohost songwriter. Charlie Harding find switched on pop anywhere you get podcasts.

20 (14m 16s):
Hey folks, it's Preet Bharara. The former us attorney for the Southern district of New York. I led that office for over seven years until I was fired by former president Trump five years ago. Now I host a podcast called stay tuned with Preet, from cafe and the Vox media podcast network. Every Thursday, I have long form conversations with the Newsmakers shaping our current moment and the thinkers who help make sense of it. Politicians, journalists, academics, and activists, people like Adam Schiff, Anita hill Masha Gessen and Daniel economy. As a former prosecutor, I focus on questions of justice. That means I dive deep into the war in Ukraine, the threat of climate change, the future of technology.

20 (14m 58s):
And of course the legal and political battles that are defining our time, like the investigations into former president Trump and the fights for voting and reproductive rights. I hope you'll consider listening and subscribing just search, stay tuned with Preet, wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (15m 23s):
All right, Ashley, you've laid out a situation in which there are some people who always supported the Marcos family. And there are some people who always remember the time of the dictatorship and would never, ever support the son of the dictator. There are also people in the middle, people who are waiting to be convinced by a candidate, how does Bongbong Marcos go about convincing those people?

6 (15m 47s):
So it has been a decades long effort for the Marcos family. They have been working on revamping their image ever since they, they were ousted. And you know, over time, Noel, this effort has evolved with technology and social media has helped them spread their message. Facebook Tik, TOK, YouTube, they're all over it

22 (16m 13s):
Cost junior avoids journalists, preferring bloggers like Rubin Hellyer who live stream comment and post only positive messages about him. Do you think you're more powerful than the mainstream media following the campaign?

23 (16m 26s):
I think so fast because some of the media is so bias about my costs and,

6 (16m 31s):
And you have to remember that the internet in the Philippines is social media. It is Facebook. Everybody is on Facebook period. It is their internet and giving the Marcoses such a platform to write distort justify, and even straight up denied well-documented claims against them really, really change, change the game for them.

0 (16m 57s):
You've been living in the Philippines. Can you tell me what you've seen as part of the rewriting of history? There

6 (17m 2s):
Is a lot out there. Facebook posts, tick talks, YouTube videos, and what's crazy is that it's also written, created and pushed by a lot of different people. So I can't tell you exactly who is doing this for them. And to be clear, the family has never denied that they were trying to reshape their image. So, so there's that, but you know, it's everyone from, you know, PR firms to freelance designers, to, to click farms, to people who were just like passionate Marco supporters,

24 (17m 38s):
The fact checkers rounded up the most shared this information. And the results show that among your top disinformation narratives are about martial law. Mainly that no critics were GL during martial law that tells us martial law victims are nothing but rumors that mark has ushered into the country, to the modern world.

6 (17m 57s):
The ecosystem of this campaign is very piecemeal and very horizontal. So you can't point your finger at one person and be like, stop doing that because a lot of people are doing it. Some of the posts, you know, seem believable. There's this image on Facebook that's gone around. And I found it in a group called Marcos legacy. It's an image of Ferdinand, Marcos looking thoughtfully. And the text says if I stole money from the people, why the Philippines is richest country next to Japan during my, it says regimen, but it means regimes. So like, if you don't fact check that, you know, it could be believable.

6 (18m 40s):
I'm

0 (18m 40s):
Looking at the picture it's very compelling,

6 (18m 43s):
Right? But then it's like not really about whether the Philippines was as wealthy as Japan during his regime. That's not what it's about. Right? It's about denial of stealing some $10 billion from the Philippine people and it's about misdirection. And so you have stuff like that. And then you have straight up conspiracy theories. And one of the most popular ones that I have heard over and over and over again is Ferdinand. Marcos Sr did not steal $10 billion from, from the government, from the Filipino people. But that Ferdinand Marcos was given tons of gold from some secretive Royal family.

25 (19m 20s):
The Philippines is the richest nation on earth, The wisest Royal bloodlines on earth.

6 (19m 31s):
I've heard people in the street tell me this theory, which of course has been debunked by multiple experts, in fact checkers. But the story exists out there. It's out there and people are repeating it and repeating it. And then on the flip side, you know, you see lots of posts and videos slamming or peddling misinformation about bongs rival vice-president Lenny Robredo, she's been red tagged as a communist and has, you know, virtually had her very real political record somehow erased in all of this.

0 (20m 3s):
You mentioned that you have family in the Philippines and that you've talked to them about the election. I mean, This was only 35 years ago, or so the dictatorship, why is this misinformation working so well on a population that surely has some memory of Ferdinand, Marcos, Sr, and the terrible things that he did.

6 (20m 22s):
That is a question that journalists like me are still trying to answer. One really interesting thing is that Marco seems to be drawing supporters from both ends of the age spectrum. So Marcos drew in a lot of young people, and that was also showing in the polling before the election. And when I say young people, I mean like 18 to 40. So some of these people never went through martial law or his father's regime. And the image that he portrays on social media is that he's, you know, he's a cool guy. He's like the cool dad who like, doesn't get into politics because like, how can you get into politics if you don't attend any presidential debates or do any media interviews.

6 (21m 5s):
And so if you don't get into politics and you can't be blamed for anything, right. And it's sort of like set him up for this image that he's somehow like above it all. And he's just like super cool.

26 (21m 16s):
You really, the real bomb on the corner. I don't know if this is you or your staff. Somebody said, well, actually I am Thor.

6 (21m 26s):
And that social media campaign to bring back the families image that I spoke about it, doesn't help young people understand what really happened during the dictatorship. It actually works against a real understanding of it. Now what is sort of like nobody has quite figured out is why older people seem to have changed their mind about what happened during the dictatorship. No, one's really sure if it's just like cognitive dissidents or if they're just not using their personal experiences, when filtering in all this information that they see on social media, I mean, it is, it is truly bizarre and no one has quite figured out why that happened, but there is one other thing that is important here.

6 (22m 8s):
Noel, the Philippines is a very familial place. Young people listen to their elders. Families live together for a really long time. They're generational households here. Family is very important to Filipinos. And so when an older person says, oh, well, you know, the Marcos regime wasn't that bad when they tell that to younger people, the young people are gonna believe that. And so it's like a perfect storm of, of, of all of these things that seems to have, you know, propelled Marcos to the presidency.

0 (22m 37s):
So crucially, the Philippines is a democracy. Was this a democratic election?

6 (22m 42s):
So far, we have no reason to think that it was not a democratic election. People are buying the results. Obviously the people who didn't want him to win are the ones making the most noise. So for example, there was a small rally near the commission on elections. And, you know, people there were upset about, you know, various things, how much Marco seemed to have beaten Lenny by the thousands of votes that didn't get counted because of the malfunctioning voting machines. And they were also, you know, upset about how quickly the votes came in, because they were talking about how bad the internet is here in the Philippines.

6 (23m 23s):
There were also other smaller protests around the country, but nothing major yet. So again, it's, it's a little bit too early to tell. And you know, the votes for president are still being officially counted and they won't be certified by the Senate, at least until the, until the end of the month.

0 (23m 41s):
Is there credible fear that he might take the country back to what it was under his father, where there was martial law where the rulers opponents could be imprisoned, detained, tortured? What, what's the real fear here?

6 (23m 56s):
Bongbong Marcos is a very, very different politician than, than his father. It's a different world, the Philippines democratic institutions, while comparatively young to like a country like the United States, you know, they have been building and improving over the last 30 something years, right? So he's operating in, in like an entirely different world than, than his father. And there are predictions about what Bongbong Marcos will be like as, as a president experts believe that there might be more corruption. There might be more nepotism.

6 (24m 36s):
A big fear is that he'll put all of his friends and cronies into high positions in the government and potentially get rid of all of the investigations into his family, because nobody has really been brought to justice yet when it comes to what happened during his father's regime, right? People are also afraid that he is going to, and he has said that he said as much he's going to continue. President Duterte is controversial and deadly drug war. It's killed thousands of people. I think really what's at the heart of this. You know, Noel is why are people so afraid of, of Bongbong Marcos whenever they've had six years of Duterte.

6 (25m 18s):
And really the way that it's been explained to me is that two territory had six years, six years to, to, to roll back things here in the Philippines and six years to cause trouble. The Marco says had 20, their influence goes well beyond president Duterte and that scares people. And if you think about the collaboration between those two political dynasties, you could potentially get something that, that we've never, never seen before. And that's what people are very, very afraid of.

0 (26m 3s):
Today's show was produced by miles, Brian and Tori Domingas. It was engineered by Paul mousey. It was fact-checked by Laura Bullard and edited by Matt collect. The rest of our team includes Halima Shaw, Heidi, Milwaukee, Victoria, Chamberlain, and ABA shy artsy. Welcome. Abishai also my co-host Sean Rama's from our supervising producer is Amina El Sadi Box's vice-president of audio is Liz Kelly Nelson. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and no I'm Hassenfeld. And we are distributed to public radio stations across the U S in partnership with w NYC I'm Noel king today explained as part of the box media podcast network.

20 (27m 3s):
Hey folks, it's Preet Bharara host of stay tuned with Preet and cafe insider. As you have surely heard, they drafted majority opinion from the Supreme court that would overturn Roe V. Wade was leaked. This leads to countless questions. What does this mean for reproductive rights? Why was it leaked? What happens next here at the Vox media podcast network? We've got you covered on cafe insider. I sat down with my cohost Joyce vans to discuss the legal substance of the opinion and the potential impact on other constitutional rights. You can find that episode for free in the stay tuned podcast feed. My colleagues at today explained also spoke to New York magazine's ear in Carmen to break down what this means for reproductive rights and on the weeds.

20 (27m 48s):
Darra Lynn spoke with Supreme court expert in Millhiser to answer listener questions and dig into the details of the opinion. You can find these important conversations by searching for stay tuned with Preet today explained, and the weeds in your favorite podcast app, or visit podcasts dot Vox media.com for a full list of shows in the Vox media podcast network.