2 (7s):
What you're hearing right now is a German guy asking his wife to go get a mixer, to puree some soup for him. The reason it sounds kind of funky is because he's asking her using only his thoughts.

3 (22s):
You're hearing real-time activity, brain activity that this person now has to sort of actively shape, actively manipulate through his own mind.

2 (32s):
Totally paralyzed person asked his wife to puree some soup using only his thoughts. That request thanks to a brain implant manifested, not in words but notes.

3 (45s):
And that's his sort of most basic form of communication. Despite being in a completely locked in state

2 (51s):
On today, explained we're getting closer to telepathy with fully locked in paralyzed people.

4 (1m 0s):
Hey there, before we get into today's episode, let's talk about Ben and Jerry's not their ice cream, but their activism, Ben and Jerry's has a new podcast. It's called into the mix and it features guests talking about how they use their creativity to drive real change. Host Ashley C. Ford sits down with musician, Patty Smith, comic book writer, Andrew Aiden, new Orleans queen of bounce music, big Frieda, and others to talk about how they work to realize a better world into the mix. You can check out the podcast now or after you listened to this show.

2 (1m 40s):
I explained I'm Sean Rama's firm. I'm joined by Jonathan Mullins, freelance science journalist. And we're going to talk about a guy whose name. We actually don't know.

3 (1m 49s):
No one really knows his name because for privacy reasons, it's sort of kept secret,

2 (1m 54s):
But he's the star of this story.

3 (1m 55s):
He was diagnosed with your traffic, lateral sclerosis, ALS this is a condition that entails sort of losing certain brain cells in your brain and spinal cord sort of degenerate over time. And these are related to motor controls. You sort of lose the ability to move and you quite quickly end up quite immobilized, sort of totally paralyzed. And so this person, he was in his state diagnosed as in 15, and eventually he started to lose all of this motor control, but he's still able to communicate with Zions.

2 (2m 25s):
How do you communicate with your eyes?

3 (2m 27s):
Right? So he communicates because he can move his eyes horizontal and up and down directions, I believe. And essentially his family had devised a sort of pen and paper scheme, which involves having these four columns, I believe. So it was like red, yellow, green, and blue. And each color has a list of letters. So say yellow has a, B, C, D, and then green has E F G H. It's not actually those, but it's something along those lines, basically of clusters of letters in each color. And so through eye movements, he says, yes and no. So they point at yellow, he says, yes. And then they list out each letter and he says, yes or no. The problem here is that he know, he's aware that this ability to speak with his eyes is temporary.

3 (3m 9s):
And so he asks and the family realizes that he wants some kind of strategy to go beyond this. As things get increasingly worst, the family reaches out to these brain scientists, this guy called Neil's bureau Ballmer, and other scientists called <inaudible> Choudhary. And so they, they tell him like, we might have a method for you. And they were like, maybe we just need to sort of actually get into the brain itself through the skull They implants is to sort of chips. And these chips have 64 micro electrodes in them. So it's like, basically you could think about this microchip with like 64 little teeth foremost, they put these in the outlay of the brain, specifically in the part, both in motor control.

3 (3m 51s):
So hand movements, especially I think is what they were focusing at the time. And those electrodes are, they're going to pick up the signal of the brain activity directly. Huh? It's not something that's on the outer layer of your head. It's something that's actually directly physically inside your brain.

2 (4m 8s):
How does this technology work?

3 (4m 11s):
If you think of neurons, neurons being brain cells, they have what are known as action potential. That's how they sort of drive activity to pass on information. It's sort of like a wire passing on electrical information. And so these micro electrodes is able to detect these sort of very small scale electrical activity in specific parts of the brain. If we ask the man whose name, I do not know if we ask him to imagine something, cause he can't move. If he asked you to imagine moving his hand and maybe we can get a response from that that is directly picked up by these micro electrodes. So that's kind of the idea,

2 (4m 50s):
Okay, how does it go?

3 (4m 52s):
They spent, I think 86 days just trying this out, trying to see if they can elicit electrical activity for hand movement or movement, tongue movement. None of that works out. And so there's a sort of aha moment, I guess sort of the breakthrough moment is when Neil's bird Elma tells them, why don't we try this somewhat unusual technique called auditory neuro feedback,

2 (5m 18s):
Auditory, neurofeedback.

3 (5m 21s):
That's right. Yeah.

2 (5m 22s):
What is it

3 (5m 24s):
Essentially? What you're doing is you're providing the person with real time activity or what's going on in their own brain. And in this case it's sound. So he's getting real time activity of his own brain cells in the form of sound that he can then modulator actively by changing his thoughts. So by being provided this constant feedback of what's going on in his brain, he's then asked, well, can you push it up or can you push it down? Can you dial it up? Can you dial it down?

2 (5m 52s):
Can you dial up or down the sound?

3 (5m 55s):
Yes, exactly. And he does this by thinking of something and that was it, his able of just sort of boosting that signal up or boosting it down.

2 (6m 4s):
And this is some pretty heavy stuff. So, so help us understand how exactly this allows them to communicate with them.

3 (6m 12s):
Right? Yeah. So there are two main stages to this and it's quite complicated, but hopefully we'll get through this. So the first stage is basically training. You're training this guy to be able to say yes or no, that's the goal. So how do we make him say yes or no? The first thing is to basically give him, what's known as a target tone, either a high note Or a low note. And that's the tone that he has to match with his mind through pushing up the second sound that I'll describe. Now say he gets the first note, it's a high note, whatever it is, then he's provided a second sound and that also prompts him to start the trial as you call it.

3 (6m 52s):
Okay. Now the second sound here, try to push the sound to match the set. This first sound he heard And as he manipulates his own brain activity, you hear a series of tones that are hopefully getting closer to the target tone. And every time he gets it, right, he's actually getting a cash reward in the form of just like a sound that makes like teaching or something like that. So in a way, this is kind of like this opera and conditioning Pavlov style where you're just priming this person to just keep learning how to say yes, keep learning how to say no, keep doing what you need to do to be able to get that activity up or down. It doesn't really matter what you do to be honest, as long as you get it to that point.

2 (7m 39s):
So how did these experiments progress? Is it just yeses and nos and hitting the right note for forever?

3 (7m 45s):
Right? So it's a lot of that, honestly. And when he got really good at it, when essentially when he got 80% of these, correct, he would move on to the next phase Every few weeks they would come in and they would do this training with him, Pavlovian style, you know, conditioning him to be able to say yes or no. And then once that's done and he gets 80% of the accuracy, correct. He then ends up doing the spelling section. So this is the more sort of weird and spooky section here's when he applies yes. And nos to a schema like he had learned before with this family, a very similar one actually where he's able to say yes or no to specific letters.

0 (8m 25s):
Nice. Nice. Yeah.

3 (8m 32s):
And then thereby formulating actual words, sentences and entire expression.

0 (8m 40s):
<inaudible> <inaudible>, <inaudible> nine

2 (8m 55s):
And following this tedious process, what does he finally say?

3 (9m 1s):
Okay. So you're saying all these things in German and you know, if you translate these things in German to English, they are things like I want Kulash soup or mum had massage. It's a lot of us sort of direct instructions. Or I want to listen to tool, rock band from Los Angeles Or carry potato and followed a shoe person think or an assembly of food and music and beer. And I wanting to watch movies with his son who, I don't know how old the oldest son was, but I think he was quite young.

2 (9m 41s):
Okay. So, so our guy's hungry and he loves beer and he loves tool. All that aside what's happening here is hugely historic.

3 (9m 52s):
Yeah. I mean, it is kind of like a breakthrough study in many ways. This is the first time a fully paralyzed person will be able to communicate at this length is able to communicate entire sentences, able to express themselves. People who are family relatives are a lot of hope regarding this technology because suddenly they see this as the ability to finally communicate to some extent, right. Even if it's very slow, this is kind of like this amazing technology and it's great advancement in science and technology, But there are very, very good reasons to be skeptical. A lot of scientists question Niels, Bohr, Obama, and Audra Chaudhary specifically. And so I think there are good reasons to sort of take this with a big grain of salt.

2 (10m 46s):
A big grain of salt is coming up next on today, explained

4 (11m 16s):
How would you describe the sounds and smells of the place you grew up for me? It is crickets in the summer and snow in the winter. Snow does have a smell. You know, it does. When you think of new Orleans, you may think of the brass bands or maybe the scent of a freshmen yay. In the new Ben and Jerry's podcast into the mix. Host Ashley C. Ford sits down with new Orleans queen of bounce music, big Frida to talk about Ben yeas. Yes, but more importantly about what big Frida is doing to help eliminate gun violence in her home city at something that's touched her personally into the mix, features a big range of guests sharing how they came to be famous and how they're putting their creativity to work, to drive real change into the mix, check out the podcast.

ZipRecruiter (11m 59s):
Now Support for today's show comes from ZipRecruiter. ZipRecruiter uses its technology to help you find and match the right candidates with your open position. Then it proactively presents these candidates to you. You can easily review the recommended candidates and invite your top choices to apply for a job which may encourage them to apply faster. This may not only save you time, but energy, energy that you could be using to train for a half marathon. If that's your thing, or you can finally start the reading club that you and your friends have been talking about for weeks. Really the possibilities are endless. If you can get some of your time back ZipRecruiter's technology is so effective that four out of five employers who post on ZipRecruiter get a quality candidate within the first day. So you can find your qualified candidates quickly find the right employees for your workplace with ZipRecruiter. Try it for free at ziprecruiter.com/t E that's, ziprecruiter.com/t E ZipRecruiter. The smartest way to hire

2 (13m 19s):
Today explained you've heard about the breakthrough science, a fully locked in paralyzed person, talking, using thoughts, read by a brain implant, translated into yeses and nos that then correspond to letters that make complete sentences. Like, could you get me a beer? Could you massage my head or Curry with potato? But now we got to talk about the dudes behind the experiment and why a bunch of their peers don't really trust them to help with that. We reached out to Megan, <inaudible>, she's a biotech reporter for stat news. And she recently wrote about Neil's beer bomber and <inaudible>

6 (13m 56s):
There. Science does look quite amazing, you know, and it was published in one of the top journals in the world. But few years ago, their work was completely discredited. Hmm. They did something pretty similar with the ALS patients. It wasn't a brain implant, but they used a brain computer interface where they put electrodes on patients scalps and they found out a way to communicate with them through yes or no answers, but then someone at the university of Tubingen, they tested the data again and tried to replicate it and proclaimed that it was wrong. The salutation basically destroyed their careers.

2 (14m 32s):
Does that mean they're trying to sort of redeem themselves with this new experiment?

6 (14m 36s):
I think so. I think so.

2 (14m 38s):
Well, tell me a little bit more about these two scientists. Let's start with Neil's beer bomber.

6 (14m 43s):
It's a pretty famous neuroscientist in Germany. It's kind of a bombastic figure. Yeah. He's done a lot of work on consciousness in general. I think some work in psychedelics like altered consciousness. What that means for a personhood. You wrote a book called empty brain happy brain, which sort of says the quieter. Your mind is the happier you are. And the more present you are in like living,

7 (15m 11s):
No, you may ask isn't quality of life in such a terrible disease. So bad that everybody would like to not to live.

6 (15m 20s):
And it actually has implications that whole thesis on this idea that people who are locked in with ALS can actually be happy in that state.

7 (15m 27s):
The answer is many, many studies in the U S and in Europe, we, these completely paralyzed patients have shown that quality of life is extremely high and not low. So what we see is a surprising quality of life, despite a desperate physical situation,

6 (15m 49s):
He speaks his mind, you know, he's, he's been controversial

2 (15m 53s):
And his buddy who drawl Choudhry

6 (15m 55s):
Oh, he was just a postdoc in his lab and they just worked together. He came over to Germany to do post-doctoral work in brain, computer interface stuff.

2 (16m 8s):
Tell me more about this first experiment they did. Was it as groundbreaking as this new one in theory?

6 (16m 13s):
So for 2017, yeah, it was super groundbreaking or so it seemed

9 (16m 18s):
And simple looking noninvasive cap is allowing researchers to communicate with patients who are trapped inside their own bodies because of degenerative nerve diseases like ALS

6 (16m 28s):
Yes. In 2017, they had a paper in plus biology, which is another pretty high-impact journal about how these electrodes on the scalp could read brainwaves and decide if someone was thinking the answer. Yes. Or thinking the answer. No

7 (16m 43s):
Patient sinks. Yes. When a patient sinks, no. The machine records the blood flow during that sot and calculate how the blood flow changes during yes. And during no. And after a while he has the computer develops an idea, a pattern of the blood flow during a yes. And union. Oh.

6 (17m 5s):
Th they tested it in force objects and they claimed that it was pretty successful.

2 (17m 10s):
Beer bomber and shouter. He actually claimed to have been able to communicate with a fully paralyzed person before.

6 (17m 19s):
Yes. There were a lot of headlines. They had some cute anecdotes. One of them was that like a daughter asked her, her paralyzed father, if he proved it for fiance. And he said, no, nine times out of 10, you know, it was, it was indication that he was still in there and he definitely had opinions.

2 (17m 37s):
You say yes the 10th time, because he was just tired of being asked

6 (17m 41s):
That I don't know. I don't know about the order of it. It may have just been that the brain can brainwaves were read differently.

2 (17m 48s):
What ends up happening to the study? Why does it get challenged?

6 (17m 50s):
It was because the person who worked in the same university just decided to run the numbers and found that they weren't necessarily consistent. And it wasn't replicable. One of the underlying tenants of, of science these days is that if you publish work, it has to be replicable by somebody else. Like you need to have consistent results that can be reproduced. And if they're not reproduced, then that calls into question whether, if it's real. And so that basically happened. And then there was this big inquiry into his work from the university. And then also from the DSG, which is basically the major research funding agency in Germany.

6 (18m 35s):
And they looked into his work and they decided that there was a selective data selection, meaning that they only chose the good stuff maybe. And that there may have been a lack of disclosure of some data and some aspects of the challenging of these patients with these questions. There were portions of video that were missing. And so the DSG, the university, the scientific community, they doubted fair bomber. And it led to the fall of his career in a sense,

2 (19m 6s):
How bad does it get for him?

6 (19m 8s):
Well, he got fired from the university. The DEFG I think, asked for him to pay back the research funds that he had used from them. He was put on probation for five years with the DSG. He basically decided that he was going to quit science and moved to Italy.

2 (19m 27s):
It was so bad that he left his country. Yeah.

6 (19m 29s):
He was like, I'm done with Germany. So he, he moved.

2 (19m 33s):
Did he ever concede that he used improper science that he fudged his results?

6 (19m 40s):
No, he didn't. He actually stands by his data a hundred percent. He concedes that. Yeah. He omitted certain portions of the video taping, like these patient answers because they were videotaping most of the sessions. And he said it was because patients needed to be cared for like spit needed to be suctioned out of their mouths or, you know, if they had to be moved. And so these types of activities that were just patient care, like they said that that's why they turned off the video camera. And that was their biggest fault.

2 (20m 9s):
How was this looked at in the scientific community? Clearly, it didn't go well for him and in Germany at this university. But, but what did other scientists think?

6 (20m 18s):
I think it's mixed. There are definitely scientists that continue to doubt his work. I've heard from some of them, but there's also just a coalition of scientists that were signatories in a petition basically saying like bear bomber is innocent and his work should be reinstated into the journalists. I mean, there are dozens of names of different scientists around the world that are supporting.

2 (20m 41s):
So just last month, beer bomber and child-free published this new experiment, groundbreaking stuff, historic stuff. But of course in the scientific community, people know that these guys kind of have the Scarlet letter. What's the reaction.

6 (20m 59s):
I think it's a lot more measured than what the broader public reaction has been. I think scientists are impressed that the results look good. You know, any work that's published in something like nature, communications has been vetted really carefully. And I think nature took two years to look through their data, to try and validate it because they have the sticky history to get vetted by nature. It's going to take months anyway, but very rarely does it take two years. So I think it's an accomplishment to have this work published at all.

2 (21m 31s):
Okay. So these two scientists have a checkered past, but this experiment was possibly extra vetted as a result. What about the ethics? What are some of the ethical questions surrounding opening up paralyzed? People's skulls to get them to communicate.

6 (21m 49s):
There are a lot of ethical concerns with these brain computer interfaces. Some researchers are stepping away from this because they're realizing that the broader ALS community just needs more support just in the ways that they're living their lives. You know, like the money could perhaps better be spent with treatments or with allowing better social supports. And so this is an invasive technology, which involves these people like learning entirely new ways to communicate. And it takes time and probably millions of dollars. And so it's not necessarily feasible for a lot of people. First off the environment has to be exactly perfect for this to work in a person.

6 (22m 29s):
And secondly, like there issues of consent, you can say that this person consented, but if a person is completely locked in there, there are still going to be questions on how long they're going to want to continue to communicate in this way. Beyond that there are questions on how many people with ALS would want to continue living like this because these people are all on ventilators and they're completely paralyzed. And so yes, they can talk. But how many people will want to that's that's a big question. The implants can be, we don't know what their shelf lives are like how long they will even work and how many surgeries it'll take to like read and start them. So there's that. And then there are just the issues of what kind of a life is worth living to society or to an individual.

6 (23m 16s):
These are people who are making choices, but what does it mean to be locked in and communicate this way? It's been a hairy topic from the beginning

2 (23m 26s):
And we don't have all the answers to those questions yet, but maybe we will, once this technology starts coming online for more and more people, and it sounds like that might be happening soon.

6 (23m 38s):
Good. And you know, if people continue this type of research, I think Elon Musk is into it. Well, we'll see, you know, there all kinds of, Saifai fun thoughts on where this kind of research could go, but right now it's, it's kind of nice that they're trying to help patients communicate in and live a little bit.

2 (23m 56s):
And then it's only a matter of time before, like you and I can do this interview without even talking to each other. I guess Like Elon Musk's dream is to have people talk to each other without talking. Right.

6 (24m 9s):
Okay. I guess that all of that stuff maybe could be possible, but I think people like to get ahead of themselves and what technology is capable of doing. We're not there yet. There are a lot of, a lot of things that need to go right before one can do that.

2 (24m 31s):
Megan Acacia VIN reports for stat news. You can find her work@statnews.com earlier in the show you heard from Jonathan Mullins, he's a freelance science journalist who wrote about this man whose name we do not know for the New York times. The headline was brain implant allows fully paralyzed patients to communicate our program today was produced by miles. Bryan edited by Matthew collect fact checked by Tori Domingas and Laura Bullard and engineered by a theme Shapiro. I'm Sean Rama's from. And this is our very first episode of today explained that will reach listeners as a podcast, but also a broadcast today. We make our debut on public radio stations across the United States.

2 (25m 12s):
We are thrilled about it to all our new listeners. Welcome to the show. You can get in touch with us anytime we're on Twitter at today, underscore explained our email is today, explained it. box.com. Let us know what you think of the show. And thank you for listening.