0 (1s):
Just when you thought Congress couldn't get anything done, they go and get something done and totally redeem themselves. Is that how you feel right

1 (8s):
Now? We, I would not go that far, but this is an exciting moment. And this bill would be significant if it does pass

0 (18s):
How significant

1 (20s):
Historic investment in climate huge policy change for healthcare and major updates to the tax code that could make corporations and wealthy individuals pay more

2 (30s):
Without any new taxes. Now people making under $400,000 a year,

0 (35s):
It seemed like no one saw this coming. It's

1 (37s):
Been, as we know all too well, will they? Won't they for almost a year now, is

3 (43s):
It going to pass the house?

4 (44s):
So

0 (45s):
We, that

5 (45s):
That way, and I cannot vote to continue with this piece of legislation.

1 (50s):
This was a shock for a lot of people,

0 (53s):
Bill back better by any other name ahead on today, explain,

6 (60s):
Hey, I'm Sam Sanders and I'm hosting a new culture podcast. It's called Intuit from vulture and New York magazine each week on the show we get into the pop culture that we just can't stop thinking about like Beyonce. I mean, we'll talk about other things too, but let's be real. Beyonce is gonna be a big part of this show and that's the that on that into it. The weekly culture show from vulture with new episodes, every Thursday, subscribe wherever you get your podcasts

7 (1m 35s):
Today, today, explain

0 (1m 40s):
Who could blame you. If you were caught off guard by West Virginia, Senator Joe mansions, potentially historic compromise with the rest of the Democrats. He, after all was famously not into bill back better.

5 (1m 52s):
This is a no,

0 (1m 53s):
But now it's a yes. Lizzo. You covered Congress for Vox. What changed?

1 (1m 58s):
What we know is that mansion has been talking to economic experts, including Larry Summers. Who's a notorious inflation Hawk who has reassured him that actually these investments are not going to add to inflation. And that's something that potentially contributed to his decision.

5 (2m 14s):
This is fighting inflation. This is all about the, the absolute horrible position that people are in now because of the inflation cost.

1 (2m 23s):
Additionally, there's an interesting timing element where previously Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell had threatened to hold this other bill hostage. If Democrats moved forward with budget reconciliation,

4 (2m 35s):
That package includes roughly 52 billion in funding for us companies to produce semiconductors.

1 (2m 41s):
That bill, which was an investment in semiconductors known as the chips act passed last week.

3 (2m 47s):
This stunned not only a lot of the fellow Democrats, but certainly stunned Republicans, because as we all remember, you know, Mitch McConnell put that line in the sand saying they were not going to pass this chips bill. If there was gonna be, be this larger reconciliation

1 (3m 1s):
Effort, a couple hours after it passed mansion, announces this agreement. So there's some speculation that, okay, you know, McConnell lost his leverage and then Democrats decided to move forward.

0 (3m 11s):
So for once the Democrats kind of joked the Republicans,

1 (3m 14s):
It's unclear how for sure that is, but that is certainly one interpretation of what's taken place.

0 (3m 20s):
Okay, well, let's talk about what is in this massive spending package. First of all, I guess how much money are we spending here?

1 (3m 28s):
So we're spending 430, 3 billion,

0 (3m 32s):
A lot of money.

1 (3m 32s):
It's a lot of money. And then revenue wise, the bill is expected to bring in 739 billion oh, net that amounts to $300 billion more in revenue than in spending. And that funding is gonna be used to pay down the deficit.

0 (3m 48s):
Interesting. And what are the highlights in this package?

1 (3m 51s):
So three big sections of this package. We have healthcare taxes and climate. Perfect.

0 (3m 56s):
Let's let's talk about healthcare first.

1 (3m 58s):
The two big healthcare provisions, the first is Medicare will finally be allowed to negotiate on drug prices.

8 (4m 5s):
Now this will allow health and human services to negotiate cheaper prices for 10 of its most expensive medications. Things like Eliquis special type of blood thinner, for example.

1 (4m 16s):
So what we're dealing with now is drug companies set the prices for different prescription drugs. And that means those prices can be exorbitant can be incredibly high. When we look at the specifics though, it only affects a small subset. So this begins in 2026. That year Medicare will be able to negotiate 10 drugs. The next year they'll be able to negotiate 15 following year 15 and then the fourth year 20 drugs. So we're still only talking about, you know, a narrower subset of things that they'll be able to focus on.

8 (4m 48s):
Another important aspect of this legislation is its cap on medical out of pocket spending previously patients face costs as high as $30,000 a year. Consider the average Medicare patient earns only $29,000 a year. And you see how huge of a burden that is. Well now Medicare will not make patients spend more than $2,000 a year out of pocket.

0 (5m 11s):
What about taxes? What did Joe Banon want about taxes?

1 (5m 15s):
So taxes, you have a new corporate minimum tax rate, Hmm. Companies

0 (5m 20s):
That make at least a billion dollars a

1 (5m 22s):
Year are supposed to pay 21% right now, a lot of them don't do that as you can probably expect. You know, we talk a lot about Amazon, Google,

0 (5m 29s):
Google,

1 (5m 30s):
Many corporations found ways to find deductions, you know, do whatever they have to do to get around that. So this would require them to pay a minimum of 15%

0 (5m 39s):
No matter what,

1 (5m 40s):
No matter what

0 (5m 41s):
No loopholes,

1 (5m 42s):
I imagine there's probably a way to get around it.

0 (5m 44s):
So it's a great time to be a corporate tax lawyer, perhaps.

1 (5m 48s):
Yeah. Very, very lucrative time for you.

0 (5m 51s):
Okay. Is there anything to do with just regular people's income taxes?

1 (5m 55s):
Semi-regular people I would say so.

0 (5m 58s):
So,

1 (5m 58s):
Ah, there's one loophole that this bill would also close, known as the carried interest tax loophole. Okay. So currently, if you are a money manager, someone who works for hedge fund, private equity, things like that income from that is taxed at a lower rate. So roughly 20% greed

9 (6m 14s):
Is right. Greed works.

1 (6m 17s):
Whereas typical income is taxed at 37%. So that's a huge difference.

0 (6m 22s):
And this is a little complicated, but now all the money managers out there have to sit on their money longer. If they want that 20% tax rate,

1 (6m 29s):
What Biden and Democrats have been clear about is they do not wanna increase taxes on anyone making $400,000 or less per year. And so this bill does not do that. They're very clear that they want to target these at corporations at wealthy individuals.

0 (6m 45s):
Maybe we can play like the tiniest violin for all the money managers out there. Okay. Give you the third tick.

1 (6m 52s):
The third thing is massive budget boost for the IRS. They're gonna get $80 billion more in funding. And a huge chunk of that is to help them enforce tax collection,

0 (7m 4s):
Right? It's like a wasteland over there or something.

1 (7m 7s):
Unfortunately it is. I think staffing is down significantly. You know, computer resources, technology, not up to date. This money is intended to help them get there. And that's expected to bring in about, you know, 120 billion in revenue as well.

0 (7m 21s):
Okay. So we got healthcare, we got taxes. This brings us to climate. Joe mansion famously drives a Maserati and has a houseboat loves coal. What does Joe mansion want on climate?

1 (7m 34s):
He was down to do pretty significant investments in climate. It's about 369 billion total that they're gonna be putting into tax credits to incentivize manufacturing of clean energy, to incentivize people, to drive electric vehicles, to invest in clean energy for their homes, and to also address the impact of pollution in different places and help provide grants for communities that have historically faced consequences from different infrastructure projects.

0 (8m 6s):
Okay. Well, we're gonna get more into the climate stuff later in the show, but a lot of this sort of sounds like Biden's build back better agenda, right? It's like bits and pieces of it.

1 (8m 17s):
It's a rebrand of build back better. For

0 (8m 20s):
Sure. This is like when Kentucky fried chicken went to KFC, it went from build back better to the inflation reduction act.

1 (8m 27s):
Right. Okay.

0 (8m 28s):
What did we miss? What did we not get? Like I remember what community college daycare stuff, preschool that all fell by the wayside to

1 (8m 37s):
Give you a sense of how this legislation has changed. Last July, the agreement Democrats came to was a 3.5 trillion agreement of legislation in November. The house passed a 1.75 trillion bill. This bill includes just over 400 billion in spending. So this is a massively paired down bill. And as you mentioned, it does not include paid family leave. It does not include childcare subsidies, universal pre-K free community college. A lot of these ideas and goals that Democrats originally had for the legislation.

0 (9m 11s):
And do we assume that's because Joe mansion could not sustain that stuff,

1 (9m 16s):
Correct?

10 (9m 16s):
This is a, no,

0 (9m 18s):
This has been in the ether now in Washington for about a week. Is there any Republican support whatsoever or are they just real mad?

1 (9m 26s):
Absolutely. No Republican support and Democrats never expected that because they are trying to do this on their own

0 (9m 32s):
And this can pass on their own.

1 (9m 35s):
It can, depending on a couple of outstanding factors that we don't yet know the answer to, although mansion is on board Kirsten cinema hasn't announced where she stands yet. And as many people probably remember, she's the other Senator who was a huge holdout on the original bill back that her bill specifically related to this bill, she has been opposed to closing the carried interest loophole. And so there's a question of, you know, is she gonna push to take that out potentially in order to get her support,

0 (10m 5s):
Why she wants to keep the tax loophole opened?

1 (10m 8s):
Yeah, she, she wants to keep that loophole open right now.

0 (10m 11s):
Is there, is there anything else,

1 (10m 13s):
Simply procedural stuff that Democrats need to get through because they are using this unique budget reconciliation process.

0 (10m 20s):
Oh, is this the old parliamentarian

1 (10m 23s):
Parliamentarian's back?

0 (10m 24s):
Yep. Classic parliamentarian.

10 (10m 26s):
It is an absurd process that we allow an unelected staff of somebody who works for the Senate, not elected by anybody to make a decision.

1 (10m 38s):
So right now the bill is undergoing, what's known as the bird bath to determine if the

0 (10m 43s):
Bird bath,

1 (10m 44s):
What if all the policies in it actually affect taxing and spending enough in order to be considered part of budget reconciliation. If the parliamentarian decides that they are that's fine, they move forward.

10 (10m 58s):
I don't care how the parliamentarian rules, no parliamentarian should have that power.

1 (11m 3s):
If she decides that they're not, they'll likely have to strip some of those provisions out of the bill. So we could see this bill change a little bit between now and a final vote. And then I guess, sorry, there's two other things.

0 (11m 21s):
Oh my God, Lee, there's two other things.

1 (11m 24s):
One of which is, is relatively straightforward. It's just gonna be painful. But it is gonna be done is which is the vote Arama, which is

0 (11m 32s):
Late night, late night vote in session,

1 (11m 33s):
Lots of amendments Republicans probably gonna be forcing some tough votes, either trying to cut stuff from the bill or trying to make Democrats uncomfortable. So that's just painful, but very doable. Other thing is this question of, you know, we've seen a surge of COVID 19 cases in the country, as well as in Congress. And

0 (11m 54s):
Oh my goodness.

1 (11m 55s):
The Senate does not vote by proxy. Like the house does. So everyone has to be present.

0 (11m 60s):
Incredible. So if cinema's on board, if the parliamentarian is on board, if the voter Ramma happens without a hitch and if no one gets C, then maybe this happens. Yes. Sometime in the next few months.

1 (12m 16s):
Yeah. Yeah. The, the hope is as soon as possible, mostly because lawmakers love their recess and that's coming up very soon.

0 (12m 26s):
If something goes wrong in the cinema part or the parliamentarian part or the voter Rama part or the COVID part, do they have to start over or does it just prolong it a little

1 (12m 34s):
Bit? There is a lot of interest in trying to get this done quickly. And notably there is a September 30th deadline for when Democrats can continue to use this iteration. So they have to try to get something done before that.

0 (12m 49s):
Okay. September 30th. Yep. Recess and deadlines. It's just like grade school, less functional

1 (12m 56s):
Classic Congress,

0 (13m 1s):
Lee, Zoe Vox in a minute more on the game-changing climate part of this bill. I'm Sean Romo firm it's today explained

13 (13m 12s):
How is it that the sound of pop music went from this to this, to this? That's the kind of question we try to answer on, switched on pop, listen closely with us and you'll hear how a single snare drum can tell you what decade you're in the sixties, seventies, eighties, or today, no matter who you are keeping up with. The 60,000 songs that are released to Spotify every day can be a chore. And it's even harder to understand what it all means. I'm Charlie Harding, the co-host of switched on pop a podcast by vulture about the making and meaning of popular music. Switched on pop will help guide you through the sounds of pop music over the decades and make sense of today's latest releases where you'll even hear from the likes of Jack Antonoff.

13 (13m 56s):
The

14 (13m 56s):
Things that pull me to write songs is when I feel something and it scares me,

13 (14m 0s):
Robert plant,

15 (14m 1s):
We can talk about the structure and the cord progressions, but the bottom line is we just wanted to find songs which we could really empathize

13 (14m 8s):
With and Lizzo y'all

16 (14m 9s):
Ever do this with other artists. This is so fun.

13 (14m 13s):
Subscribe to switch Don pop for free. Wherever you get podcasts.

Wealthfront (14m 18s):
Today's episode is sponsored by Wealthfront. If you're looking for help in confusing economic times, here are two facts. Wealthfront was voted the best overall robo advisor by Investopedia. And they currently manage over 27 billion in assets for nearly half a million customers. Here's how it works. You answer a few questions about your risk, comfort level and future plans. And then you'll get a personalized portfolio. Plus you'll get a $50 bonus. If you sign up today, the app is designed for ease of use and to help you work, to build long term wealth and weather economic volatility by using their automation feature, you can invest regularly regardless of the market's ups and downs. Get a $50 bonus. When you start investing with Wealthfront, just visit wealthfront.com/explained that's wealthfront.com/explained. This is a paid endorsement from Wealthfront.

17 (15m 14s):
I can't believe it. Joe mansion agreed to vote for a bill, which means Democrats might actually get something done.

0 (15m 27s):
Rebecca Lieber, you cover climate change for Vox. And this bill might be historic, especially in terms of the climate action. Is that accurate?

18 (15m 39s):
Yeah. I think if this actually passes, this is the biggest amount the us has ever spent to combat climate change

0 (15m 46s):
In this, through the country,

18 (15m 47s):
Arguably the world. Whoa, but definitely for the us, huh? Leah Stokes, a political scientist at UC Santa Barbara called this a complete game changer.

0 (15m 57s):
So Lee kind of gave us the broad strokes, 369 billion of investment, but can you tell us what are the largest areas of investment here?

18 (16m 7s):
Yeah. If this bill works as it's intended, it will basically push Americans away from relying on fossil fuels in all parts of the economy. Our biggest polluting sectors are transportation, electricity. And then after that we have industry buildings and some other areas, okay, this bill helps clean up cars. It helps clean up the power sector. It has tons of funding for clean energy tax credits, as well as credits for electric vehicles. And I think that's where consumers are going to see the biggest difference. Those kinds of credits.

0 (16m 43s):
Okay, let's talk about cars first. What's this bill doing on cars?

18 (16m 46s):
This helps clean up the car industry by providing tax credits for new and used electric vehicles. The idea is bringing down the cost for electric vehicles for everyone. So this more targets, the lower and middle income brackets to help make cars more affordable. So that's why I think the tax credits for used electric vehicles is, is particularly interesting here because that's what most people are buying.

0 (17m 15s):
I think a lot of people discovered in this pandemic that it's kind of hard to buy used cars and even new cars. Does this tax credit do anything to address the shortage of availability that people have had?

18 (17m 26s):
Yeah. That's the other half of this bill it's targeting consumption of fossil fuels, but it's also looking at the manufacturing side. This is basically Biden's campaign promises to enhance us jobs and manufacturing. So there are credits for manufacturers to produce electric cars. There's also some stipulations in the electric vehicle tax credit section that more parts of the car have to be produced in the us. And those actually ratchet up over time. So ideally over the next decade, you see more cars being put together, parts being produced in the us.

2 (18m 10s):
This investment in environmental justice is real. It also provides tax credits that will create thousands of good paying jobs, manufacturing jobs on clean energy, construction projects, solar projects, wind projects, clean hydrogen projects, carbon capture projects, and more by giving tax credits. For those who build these projects here in America,

0 (18m 33s):
You also mentioned power was a big part of the spending here what's gonna happen regarding power.

18 (18m 41s):
So the power, sector's a really important piece of this puzzle because as we have more electric cars, as we replace appliances in people's homes with electric appliances, that's going to be plugging into a grid. So we're only as clean as the grid is. We have to make sure that the power sector is not running on coal and not running on natural gas in order to ensure that it's running on clean energy and not contributing to the climate crisis. So the biggest spending of the bill is actually on clean energy tax credits for solar wind and even growing the us is very small offshore wind industry.

18 (19m 23s):
Huh? All of that is to ensure that we have a cleaner grid that we're not just plugging cars into a grid that's powered by coal. And what all of the economic modeling has shown is that without this kind of spending, there could still be some coal on the grid in the next decade when we really need to get that down to zero by 2030. But the other thing it does that is really big, is it tackles methane emissions from the oil and gas sector. Hmm. So there is a methane fee and fines for oil and gas operators that are basically leaking this very powerful greenhouse gas throughout its supply chain.

18 (20m 7s):
So this is the first industry wide kind of fee that, that tries to bring down this really polluting greenhouse gas that it compared to CO2 methane pollutes up to 86 times more over a 20 year period. So it's important to tackle methane.

0 (20m 28s):
Okay. So it seems like it's pointing us in the right direction, especially when it comes to methane and carbon emissions in the United States. When you say there's all these tax credits and that's the biggest proportion of spending in the entire bill, are we talking about tax credits for individual homeowners? Are we talking about tax credits for business who gets the, the money?

18 (20m 48s):
It's a mix it's tax credits for people to put rooftop solar on their homes, but also for the company manufacturing side. One thing this bill does is extend tax credits by 10 years. And without this, we would've seen wind and solar credits actually on the verge of expiring this year. And what this does is provide some certainty for the future, for businesses on their growth. And we do need both sides of this to ensure the growth of the clean energy sector.

0 (21m 21s):
Okay. So cars, power, anything else here? That's hugely significant.

18 (21m 27s):
There's also the first national green bank. We have green banks throughout the country. Some states and cities have created these, but at the federal level, this is a quasi public private bank that has a social mission, which is to boost clean energy. Okay. Now they are expecting a return on their investments. This isn't just a government grant, but the idea is to boost spending in all kinds of clean energy sectors. And one thing I think this does that is unique to what a national green bank could do as opposed to the private sector.

18 (22m 10s):
Is it dedicates a portion of those funds to low income communities?

0 (22m 14s):
Hmm. Is this like a new idea for the government?

18 (22m 17s):
It's not new other countries have it? The UK for example, has its own green bank. And that's been really instrumental in growing its offshore wind industry. So if a national green bank can do the same for the us, that's basically growing an offshore wind industry from zero. So it can make a big difference.

0 (22m 39s):
As we discussed with Lee, basically anything in this bill had to get signed off on by Senator Joe mansion. And Lee mentioned that he had some pretty important trade offs here on the climate stuff. Could you tell us a little bit more about how that maybe stymies some of the progress here or, or, or if it does at all?

18 (22m 58s):
You're right. There were some compromises made. One of the things this does is it guarantees more oil and gas leasing from the Biden administration,

0 (23m 8s):
Which he said initially that he was basically done with new oil and gas leasing. Right

2 (23m 12s):
Now today's executive order also directs the secretary of the interior to stop issuing new oil and gas leases on public lands and offshore waters, wherever possible.

18 (23m 23s):
There's also this side deal that mansions struck where the Senate is going to consider a separate bill that looks at speeding up permitting for all kinds of projects. And the idea that will also ease the way for fossil fuel projects. It can make it harder for people to Sue if they don't want this in their backyard, that is a completely separate kind of process from reconciliation. But this was part of the compromise that Democrat struck. So we will have to see if that also passes,

0 (23m 56s):
Where do these compromises ultimately leave us? I mean, so there's more drilling. There's more land being leased out to drilling at the same time, you have the most significant spending in the history of this country on, on climate.

18 (24m 10s):
It definitely opens up this bill to some criticism, but there have been a bunch of different analyses from economic modelers, looking at what the benefits this bill delivers versus the cost. And they've been unequivocal that this far outweighs what those fossil fuel projects do, that the climate benefits are considerable overall, the several different analyses from groups like energy innovation. And Roadium, they're saying that this bill delivers about 40% in emissions cuts by 2030. That is a much bigger number than where we were at without it.

0 (24m 53s):
So as we look around the country at, you know, record setting, temperatures and, and, and flooding in, in Kentucky and Missouri and fires in Montana and California, is this the legislation that meets our moment

18 (25m 6s):
Three 70 billion goes a long way. Of course, it's not enough. It doesn't get us all the way there to where we need to be on climate change. But when we're talking about the impacts, every fraction of a degree means a huge difference in millions of people's lives, investing in all of these polluting sectors and cleaning them up. This is where we need to be headed. And I think if this passes, this gives us a real fighting chance to combat climate change.

0 (25m 43s):
Rebecca Lee Lieber, she writes for Vox read her and Lizzo who you heard from earlier in the show@vox.com. Our show was produced by Victoria Chamberlain and hot Modi. It was edited by Matthew collected by Laura Bullard and mixed by Paul mosey today explained it is Noel. What are you still doing here?

16 (26m 17s):
Haven't been fired yet.

0 (26m 19s):
Oh no. Okay. That's not going yet. No. What I meant was this is like coming at the end of the show. And here we are, we don't usually talk at the end of the show, but we're here with an important message.

16 (26m 28s):
That's well, we're here with an important ask. That's right. One of the ways that this show gets made is with listener contributions. People given us a couple bucks here and there to help the show

0 (26m 38s):
Out. And we're not just talking about this show. We're talking about V's great video explainers, the stuff that Vox does on text, the stuff that you see from Vox all over your, your streaming services and your podcast platforms, you can support that journalism and help keep it free for everyone by going to vox.com/give. Thank you. Thank you.