2 (1s):
It's been a while since I've said this on the show, but all the more reason to provide a fall reminder that you should be brushing your teeth once twice maybe Thrice a day and you can do so with the clip electric toothbrush the clip starts at just $25 and you will get your first refills for free at get quip.com explained. You probably don't watch South Park anymore. What have I do that?

1 (28s):
All right Cartman, all right. South

2 (30s):
Park is still going strong. It's in its 23rd season of profane satire and the show's creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone

1 (37s):
have evidently learned how to make fun of the

2 (40s):
future last week's episode lambasted American companies that live in fear of the Chinese government,

3 (47s):
Google. Hey, Mitchell, you're on this flight. Yeah, that's so funny. I'm working for Google

2 (52s):
Now overseeing the expansions into the Chinese user base the

3 (55s):
NBA he had still with the NBA doing some press with the players to try to get more Chinese

2 (59s):
viewers. Even Mickey Mouse himself, you're telling me

3 (1m 2s):
that I'm looking. losers because of

2 (1m 9s):
just a few days after this episode aired something

1 (1m 12s):
just like this began to play out in real life.

2 (1m 15s):
Well it began on Friday with rockets general manager Daryl Morey putting out a tweet. That was an image that

1 (1m 25s):
expressed support for

2 (1m 27s):
the Hong Kong Freedom movements.

3 (1m 32s):
The controversy began when the Rockets Maury fired off this tweet Fight For Freedom stand with Hong Kong that statement of support for pro-democracy protesters was seen as an affront to the

2 (1m 43s):
team's Chinese fan base. Now the

3 (1m 45s):
Tweet was quickly deleted but the damage was already

2 (1m 48s):
done Tillman Fertitta. The owner of the Houston Rockets distance the Rockets very quickly A team's owner

3 (1m 55s):
tweeting more. He does not speak for the Houston

2 (1m 57s):
Rockets China reacted strongly they condemned arrows. Comments China's Counselor General in Houston urge the team to clarify and they immediately correct the mistakes in his statement on Sunday it across the NBA there was sort of shocked at just how big a story this had become and now we have a geopolitical incident that was effectively sparked with one tweet. Chris Mannix, you've been covering the story for Sports Illustrated. Do you have any idea why Daryl Morey tweeted support for Hong Kong all of a sudden? No, I've known Daryl Morey for a long time. He's an incredibly smart guy.

2 (2m 38s):
I don't know. What was the impetus for the tweet and it's interesting that he would do that just because Darrell's been the GM of the rockets for a long time and Daryl knows full. Well the influence of the rockets in the NBA on China me. Darryl is the I'm of a team. That was the home of you Ming or the biggest International stars ever. So he knows exactly what kind of effect this is going to have and he went out there and did it all the same aside from China getting angry have there been any consequences for the NBA? Well, 10 cent which has a long-standing deal with the NBA. They stream the majority of the NBA games.

2 (3m 19s):
They're responsible for the close to 500 million viewers. That are watching NBA basketball in China. They announced that they will stop showing Houston Rockets games the Chinese Basketball Association, which ironically is run by Yao Ming at this point. They said that they were cutting ties with the Houston Rockets sponsors affiliated with China pulled away from the rocket. So anything Chinese effectively severed their ties with the rockets in a very short period of time. Okay, so try I got mad the Rockets owner tried to sweep it under the rug. I saw Rockets players trying to deal with this James Harden was like

3 (4m 2s):
yeah, we apologize. We love China. We love playing are you know, we appreciate the support that they give us individually and as an organization so, you know, we love

2 (4m 11s):
you. But how did the NBA itself? React all the NBA's reaction wasn't great. We're apart of the NB a statement saying we as that the views expressed by Houston Rockets general manager Daryl Morey have deeply offended many of our friends and fans in China, which is regrettable. Really. This is supposed to be the woke League. They did say in that kind of word salad of a statement that Daryl had the right to say anything he wanted but they said that he had to write say to the educated on the matter and that rang a little Hollow with some people so it wasn't a very strong statement in the NBA face pretty Swift backlash Senator Ted Cruz,

3 (4m 51s):
Texas Republicans said the Is quote shamefully retreating in pursuit of big money Democratic presidential candidate who lie and Castro says the US shouldn't allow American

2 (5m 1s):
citizens to be bullied by an authoritarian government today walk it back at the NBA walked that statement back very quickly and Adam Silver who was over in Asia. Anyway, as part of these International games that are taking place right now. He made a much more forceful statement a statement that frankly better reflects. So I think what the NBA really stands for

3 (5m 26s):
the long-held values of the NBA are to support freedom of expression and certainly freedom of expression by members of the NBA community. And in this case Daryl Morey as the general manager of the Houston Rockets enjoys that right as one of our employees by understand that there are consequences from that exercise of in essence his freedom of speech and You know, we will have to live with those

2 (5m 55s):
consequences in the NBA coaches like Steve Kerr and Gregg Popovich takes strong positions on domestic issues Gregg Popovich is once quoted calling Donald Trump a soulless coward.

3 (6m 7s):
I wonder what the people think about who voted for him. Where they're lying is how much they can take. Where does the Morality

1 (6m 18s):
In the decency? Kick in

2 (6m 20s):
the NBA didn't have anything to say on that publicly. So the NBA really can't take a position on Daryl Morey saying what he said publicly so the NBA after initially kind of bungling their reaction, they recovered pretty quickly and put out a statement that I think better reflects their positions. How are the NBA statements perceived in China? It seems like you know anything short of Daryl Morey being fired and his comments being disavowed is not going to satisfy the Chinese government the Chinese Basketball Association or anybody that might be involved with this story. They came out with some statements of their own saying they disagreed with the NBA's position on this but the NBA has stood pretty firm.

2 (7m 5s):
And that's really all they can do at this point. There's a Chance that the NBA loses some money as a result of this but in the grand scheme of things the NBA doesn't need that money to survive. So it's a bad situation at the NBA would like no part of but it doesn't really affect their bottom line. So who needs who more here does does the MBA need China more does China need the NBA more? I would argue that China needs the NBA more than the NBA needs China mean China can't walk back Decades of NBA a basketball being introduced to its population of more than a billion people the NBA proudly touts. The number of people that play basketball in China.

2 (7m 47s):
It's north of 300 million. They talk about the number of people that watch basketball and shine. It's just under 500 million about 21 million people watch Game 6 of the NBA finals this past year. That's an astronomical number even for a domestic viewership. You can't just take that away from people and not expect people to to want it back. You know there really isn't a alternative in China. They have the Chinese Basketball Association, but it's nowhere near the level of basketball that the NBA plays on and you know these stars from the NBA from LeBron James to James Harden to Steph Curry. They are close to household names in China people by their sneakers.

2 (8m 29s):
They wear their jerseys, but it's still unclear exactly how far China is willing to take this do you think right now the NBA is Getting how open it is on speech. I mean the NBA has you know proudly empowered its players to speak up to be political LeBron's spoken up a lot on Race Steph Curry and some of the other Warriors have spoken out against Trump coaches give political speeches can the NBA walk that back when it comes to China when it's so encouraged here. No the NBA can't walk any of this back and they have to live with see Relations like this.

2 (9m 10s):
They simply can't turn around and create new policy that says players can't speak on political issues or social issues and frankly. I don't believe the NBA would do that the NBA as an organization has established itself as a progressive one. It was just back in 2016 when the NBA pulled an All-Star game out of Charlotte because the league disagreed with the North Carolina bathroom bill. They have positioned themselves as a league willing to take stands on these types of things. Frankly. I think the NBA relishes the attention that it's players get for taking stands on issues like this.

2 (9m 52s):
So behind the scenes, maybe there are some conversation taking place some reminders about just how much money Is being brought in in foreign markets, but overall the NBA is not going to stop anyone from saying anything about any particular

3 (10m 9s):
issue.

2 (10m 19s):
Chris Mannix is a senior writer at Sports Illustrated.

3 (10m 22s):
This whole

2 (10m 23s):
NBA thing is actually part of a much bigger plan that was hatched like a few decades ago for the u.s. To bring businesses over to China to help Foster democracy, but it looks like it might be going the other way that's in a minute on today explained.

3 (10m 58s):
I

2 (10m 58s):
would making the show from New York City for the past couple of days have been up in New York without my regular toothpaste that I keep at home brought some travel toothpaste and ran out of the first tube and then thought the second tube was my backup, but then realized that like, it's some like funky organic toothpaste like just straight up dried out so I don't have toothpaste right now and this is just one of the many benefits. If it's the clip electric toothbrush, not only do they send you a new brush head every three months, but they send you new toothpaste and a new battery for your toothbrush. In addition to that. The clip has these 30 second pulses that ensure an even clean. They've got sensitive vibrations that ask you how your day went and have a built-in timer the guides gentle brushing for the dentist recommended two minutes.

2 (11m 46s):
There's all sorts of benefits to the clip. Come on get real go to get quipped.com / explained you get your first refills for A free the clip starts at just $25 and if you go to G ET Q UI p.com explained you can support the show while you know supporting your

3 (11m 59s):
teeth.

2 (12m 12s):
Matt Stoller a fellow in the studio, but also at the open markets Institute. The NBA's development in China has not occurred in a vacuum, right? How long has the United States had this kind of broad business Outreach to China.

1 (12m 26s):
Well, it started with Nixon re-establishing formal diplomatic ties in the 1970s. But the real trading relationship was developed in the early 1990s. Largely by the the Clinton

2 (12m 39s):
Administration. The United States has a huge Stake in the continued emergence of China in a way that is open economically unstable politically

1 (12m 49s):
and then it accelerated in 1995 with the creation of the World Trade Organization. I

3 (12m 53s):
think it would be a very good thing for the world in a very good thing for the Chinese China within the

1 (12m 58s):
WTO and then it accelerated. Once again when China became a permanent member of the WTO in 2001 and did like Bill Clinton not mine

2 (13m 7s):
that you know, China was undemocratic an autopsy. Aqua see

1 (13m 12s):
well, there's an interesting question. So Clinton was elected right after Tiananmen Square and there were a bunch of discussions among American strategists about what to do and what Clinton settled on was a strategy that I guess is called engagement. What Clinton posited was that if America trades with other countries, even if they're autocratic that trade will tend to create more democracy or economic Liberty in that country.

3 (13m 41s):
The question is not whether we approve or disapprove of China's practices. The question is what's the smartest thing to do to improve these practices?

1 (13m 54s):
So if we opened up China, especially to the internet China would become more democratic now as it turns out what has happened is that China has exported autocracy to us, but the original intent was to actually open up the country and create a more sort of stable International

2 (14m 10s):
order. So the idea was China's going to become more democratic once we expose them to our capitalism and that didn't really work

1 (14m 19s):
out right? I mean you remember Thomas Friedman used to say, you know to countries that each have me I don't have never fought a war with each other. So there were a whole bunch of thinkers who kind of said at the end of the Cold War America one. We are the sole dominant superpower. All we got to do is make sure that everybody has Xboxes and McDonald's and Microsoft and of History finished peace and prosperity forever. What ended up happening is Corporate Executives at the behest of the Clinton ministration and then the Bush Administration and then Obama administration ended up exporting a lot of factories or production facilities to China and also created enormous dependencies. He's on China for American and actually Global Production of all sorts of important goods and things they now we can actually only get in China that was the consequence of those policy

2 (15m 2s):
choices, which I guess brings us to the NBA we heard from Chris in the first half of the show that the NBA isn't exactly dependent on money from China, but there are ton of companies that are

1 (15m 16s):
right. Yeah. So you've got Apple for example apple is you know, they make all their pretty much all their iPhones and Amounts of equipment in China and that's true for a lot of high-tech electronics companies. The NBA thing is actually sort of the second stage of this dependency because now we're not just dependent on China for lots of production are corporations in many cases are actually dependent upon the Chinese market for export we make a lot of things and services. And in this case, we make entertainment and companies especially companies like Disney but increasingly institutions like the NBA are actually dependent upon China to sell things there and that gives China leveraging other ways and that's what we're seeing with the NBA right now.

2 (15m 57s):
That's interesting. I mean we talked about the NBA up top and you just mentioned apple and I think most people are aware their iPhones or iPads and laptops are assembled in China. But but what about Disney? What's Disney up to in

1 (16m 8s):
China? Well Disney has theme parks there but also in 2015 the US government wrote a report about how Chinese censors increasingly control Hollywood. And the reason is because the Chinese movie Market is so important that Hollywood will actually The censor their own movies in the hopes that they can get those movies into China. That's why you haven't seen any Chinese villains. It's why you don't see discussions on a lot of different media companies about what's going on in China or what's going on in Hong Kong and in the case of Disney which owns ESPN there's actually internal censorship. But this was just reported that ESPN will not talk about Hong Kong or Chinese politics and it's because Disney's pretty dependent upon China. I know it's crazy, right ESPN told China.

1 (16m 50s):
They wouldn't talk about Hong Kong or their preemptively. I'm just deciding we're not going to allow discussion of Chinese politics. And also by the way, it's not just Hong Kong. There are about a million uyghurs, which is a Muslim minority that are in concentration camps in China and there's actually an NBA practice facility near there.

2 (17m 7s):
Well, yeah, we've covered that on the show but - the NBA practice facility Well, I didn't know

1 (17m 11s):
that. Yeah. Well, some of it is just over like where the Chinese are just saying, you know don't allow your employee to say what he wants and you haven't just seen this with the NBA, you know, you've seen it with Mariette. You've seen it with The Gap you've seen it the whole bunch of different companies is Haven't noticed until now but the other piece is just the pre-emptive self-censorship that takes place when you are trying to get into a market like China and that's what you might be seeing with ESPN. It isn't necessarily the case that the Chinese told Disney to censor ESPN. It might be that Disney executives are preemptively doing it to avoid losing their market share in China. How does that compare to what we're seeing with

2 (17m 45s):
South Park, which I mentioned at the top of the show.

1 (17m 47s):
So South Park have this amazing episode. It was just so funny. They had one of the characters go to Uh China to try to sell legal weed there.

2 (17m 56s):
I've been trying to figure out how to make more money selling weed and last night. It came to me. We could grow the family business by selling Tegrity to the

1 (18m 5s):
Chinese at the same time as they had Chinese censors censoring what the kids in South Park were trying to say and write.

2 (18m 12s):
Oh, oh, yeah. No. No, we don't want to go there talking about the Dalai. Lama doesn't go over well with the

1 (18m 18s):
Chinese and one of the main characters was like a foul mouth Mickey Mouse.

2 (18m 23s):
Was

1 (18m 23s):
screaming at all the other Disney and Marvel characters to get in line. Critical Chinese politics. Well, it is true sir. The Chinese seem to exploit their own people with forced labor. And then immediately China took all of South Park episodes and Clips off of their internet so that the show didn't exist. And then the South Park creators released a fake apology

3 (18m 53s):
here. It goes like the NBA we welcome the Chinese censors into our homes and into our hearts we to Love Money More Than freedom and democracy long live the great Communist Party of China. We good now

1 (19m 7s):
China, they then did a follow-up where they said. Okay? Okay no more. Going to the Chinese and say it say fuck the Chinese government. The Chinese government I didn't hear you. Fuck the Chinese government. They're you know, they're doing a series of episodes that are just making fun of China but also and I think the bigger Target American supplicants to China so the NBA and more importantly Disney, so it sounds like on one end of the spectrum you have a company like

2 (19m 36s):
Disney on

1 (19m 37s):
the other you have like Matt Stone and

2 (19m 40s):
Trey Parker the creators of South Park who feel you know, that they have the license to do whatever they want. And what the MBTA sort of

1 (19m 47s):
Somewhere in between here. Yeah, that's right. So the NBA makes a lot of money from China and basketball is really popular in China, but it really China is more of the market of the future for the NBA. So they understand that it's one point four billion people. It's going to be the biggest economy in the world and a few years. So they get that that is where the future growth is. And for the last 15 or 20 years investors would kind of say what's your China strategy about five or six years ago Corporate America started complaining because the Chinese government was bullying that more and more. More and more but they didn't want to give up the lucrative Chinese market or their Chinese production facilities. What you're seeing with the NBA now is finally there's a kind of a breaking point where it's like, okay, we now need a China strategy and that China strategy is not going to be how can we get into the Chinese market?

1 (20m 34s):
It's how can we reduce the dependencies that we have on China and that's most extreme with a company with apple that company is super exposed to China both on the consumer side and on the production side. So what we did in the 1990s Is probably one of the most significant strategic mistakes in US history? It's not just the NBA. Let me just put it that way like we shipped missile technology over to China. We basically shipped massive amounts of know how they're a very very powerful country not entirely because of US policy, but in a lot of ways because of US policy and it is catastrophic and we have structured a world that looks a lot more like the 1930s with kind of autocracies and sort of weak democracies sort of battling ideologically and potentially militarily over the values of The global order.

1 (21m 25s):
I mean that's where we are. It's extremely serious.

2 (21m 28s):
And if we do nothing

1 (21m 30s):
well, then what will happen is our Sovereign power will just will evaporate and we will become vassals of China. We will become governed by Chinese Norms in most cases. We won't really notice but over time what we'll see as that situations like the NBA or maybe even, you know, shipping things and wanting to say certain things, you know, you just won't be able to do that and we will lose. lose our Liberty as Citizens

2 (22m 9s):
Matt Stoller has a book. It's called Goliath the hundred year war between Monopoly power and democracy. I'm Sean Rama's from I have a podcast it's called today explained Irene. Noguchi is the executive producer a film Shapiro is the engineer Bridget McCarthy produces believe. Ishod produces to and Amna al-saadi produces nine. No, I'm hassenfeld produces and also makes music the rest of the gems come from the mysterious brake master cylinder. We had extra help this week from Jelani Carter and Lee's oh today explained is produced in association with Stitcher and we are part of the VOX media podcast

3 (22m 46s):
Network.

2 (22m 60s):
Thanks to the brushers over at the clip electric toothbrush company for supporting today explain today one last reminder before we go for the day that the clip starts at just $25 lattice and you'll get your first refills for free @ g ET Q UI p.com / explain that's get quipped.com / explained.