2 (1s):
At Novartis, they're exploring the boundaries of Science in pursuit of transformative medicines and that requires intense collaboration

1 (9s):
keep breakthrough often happens when Experts of different fields combined know-how

2 (15s):
with Innovative Technologies, like crisper teams at Novartis are designing one time treatments that address the root causes of disease to hear more about how Novartis is reimagining medicine with cell and gene therapy. Stay tuned for the

1 (28s):
Post show. The pandemic hasn't done a great job of uniting Americans in common, cause we're divided on basically everything The Masks the politics the potential vaccines, but it's worth remembering that there was one event this year. We're just about everyone for once was on the same page vice president. Mike Pence was clear about it at last night's debate and with regard to George Floyd. There's no excuse for what happened to George. Floyd Justice will be served. You might have missed the news but just hours before the debate. We found out that Derek Chauvin the officer who killed George Floyd have been released on bail.

1 (1m 13s):
There are conditions. Of course, he has to give up any guns. He has he can't contact George Floyd's family. He has to stay in Minnesota until his trial on charges of second degree murder and manslaughter in March, but his release had us wondering how the movement that sprung up in the way. Wake of his unbelievable indifference was going months later. Has anyone had success in defunding the police. We thought we'd start in the same place Derek Chauvin ended George Floyd's life the City of Minneapolis back in June. I spoke with Minneapolis city councilmember alone drakon. Oh,

2 (1m 53s):
All of our officers who are still on duty to continue to do your work with compassion with respect and love we're going to need every single human to be a part of this

1 (2m 2s):
project. She and eight of her colleagues had just taken a pledge. This council is going to dismantle this

2 (2m 8s):
Police Department to end our cities toxic relationship with the Minneapolis to Police Department to end policing as we know it and to recreate systems of Public Safety that Actually, keep us safe. This ain't gonna happen overnight. The saying on happened tomorrow. We need everybody's voices included come to member Cano that

1 (2m 35s):
can June you and your colleagues pledged to dismantle the police. Is it fair to say it hasn't happened yet.

3 (2m 42s):
I would say no, I think that we have seen some pretty significant action taken over the last four months number one the council through a majority vote redirected 1.1 million dollars from the Minneapolis. As police department budget to increase funding for community-based safety strategies Additionally the council has also approved a preliminary plan for Community engagement to ensure that all of the residents in Minneapolis get an opportunity to weigh in on what is a new transformative model for Public Safety.

3 (3m 24s):
What does that look like for each resident? What does it feel like what are the questions that? At that safety system should be able

1 (3m 30s):
to answer some of your colleagues. I guess since that pledge was taken back in June have said that they didn't mean that they were literally thinking about defunding the police that they thought they were sort of signing up for some more symbolic pledge has that been part of the confusion in Minneapolis for people who expected something that they're maybe not going to see any more.

3 (3m 54s):
I don't really identify with the confusion. I don't see that in my I think it's been pretty clear that the city council has in the past and currently reduce the police budget to increase funding for community-based strategies. This isn't something new. We did it two years ago and we continue to move along that path since then. I think perhaps what's happening is that we are now diving into the details of what does that transition look like and so some activists for example didn't believe that we should be conducting arrests this year. And I think most of us have council members agreed that we needed to be able to conduct a rest this year because that's the moment that we're in perhaps that's not the moment that we will be in 10 years from now when we have completely reworked some of these systems and and really looked at priorities and budgeting to end things like homelessness and poverty but at this moment, I think that I sense a clear path of action.

3 (4m 59s):
We have taken to pretty strong and clear votes on the direction that this conversation is going and then we will see another opportunity to once again clarify in a firm that trajectory in December when we approve the budget for next

1 (5m 16s):
year. So just to be clear here the police have certainly had about a million dollars of their funding redirected to community services and you have created more opportunities for citizen involvement citizen feedback, but the Minneapolis Police Department is still very much functional and very much still receiving a hundred million plus dollars in funding annually.

3 (5m 37s):
Yes, if you might remember the path we had taken was to propose a question to the voters to have our City's Constitution or the charter be amended to allow the city council to create a new Department of Public Safety and the charter Commissioners decided decided that we were going to take more time to seek input on that question, which means that it can't go on the ballot this November but it is going to be able to go on the ballot next November either through two paths either city council action again, like we've just done or if the voters of Minneapolis would like to go out and get 10,000 or more signatures to put the question on the ballot.

3 (6m 27s):
That's how that that would Come back again

1 (6m 30s):
reporting in the New York Times has assess the progress you all have made and said that this pledge to defund or you know, reimagine the police that was taken in June is no closer now to being realized than it was then. How do you feel about that assessment? I

3 (6m 47s):
think that's a misguided assessment. It's probably based on somebody who doesn't know how City politics and City policy works. It took us about three or four years to approve the 15. Dollar minimum wage ordinance. And so when I was first elected in 2014, that's what we worked on and we were able to pass it through your four years later. So these kinds of initiatives take healthy time. That doesn't mean that they're not important that actually means that we're investing due diligence and systems and budgets into sustaining that new governing structure. So I think to assume that we would have engaged Our entire community and gotten rid of 888 police officers and created a new public safety system in four months.

3 (7m 37s):
It doesn't feel sincere. I think we have to be a little bit more grounded in understanding how these systems work and how we as a community engage with one another to make these decisions. I think in general most of us agree that we do need an intentional and thoughtful path towards abolishing are policing system which is different than saying there will be no officers and there will be no law enforcement. So right now we're building an ecosystem that can have a variety of responses to things like opioid overdoses violence Interruption homelessness things that police officers themselves acknowledge time and time again, that they're not built for that.

3 (8m 22s):
That's not what their system is built for.

1 (8m 25s):
You guys kind of early on went a step further than a lot of other places and now you're in the, you know, real work of trying to actualize that pledge. Do you think other cities and states can learn something from what you've gone through?

3 (8m 40s):
Absolutely. Absolutely. I often tell other council members you do not want to be the city where George Floyd was killed. You don't want to wait until that moment to come up with a plan. You don't want to wait until Your city burns down to then realize that you should have been putting all of these alternative plans together. So it my advice to other cities that are grappling with similar questions is it's fine to talk about what you don't want. You don't want officers. You don't want, you know the policing system, but I think what's more valuable and more strategic and more important is that you double down on what you want when things can you?

3 (9m 25s):
Best now that don't depend on negating the reality you don't want so that they can help be the systems that help to carry your city forward in case you are ever found in a horrific situation in the way that Minneapolis found itself four months ago.

1 (9m 47s):
Okay counselor encounter. I really appreciate your time.

3 (9m 50s):
Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you.

1 (9m 57s):
After the break how police reform is going in the rest of the country.

2 (10m 13s):
Right now scientists at Novartis are exploring new ways to treat intractable diseases after all medical breakthroughs can sometimes have unexpected Beginnings take crisper. For example, when biologists for started analyzing the DNA of bacteria, they noticed something strange in the genomic

1 (10m 33s):
sequences scientist really have a tendency of either ignoring things that you don't understand or giving them really complicated. It's like crisper.

2 (10m 44s):
They were amazed to discover what crisper actually does and that led to a revolutionary cure for yogurt. But the story doesn't end there crispr technology. It turns out led to a potential turning point in treating disease to learn more about that stay tuned for the in-depth post-show. And for more information on how Novartis is reimagining medicine. Check out Novartis.com cell and Gene

3 (11m 9s):
today.

1 (11m 17s):
Minneapolis wasn't the only city that pledge serious police reform this summer. There were similar calls in major cities across the country from New York to Seattle. Simone bikes will bomb you cover law enforcement in the United States for The Marshall Project. How's this looking across the

3 (11m 32s):
country? Well, every city is unique and every city is different and I think that changes the conversation if you recall in May and June and the aftermath of the death of George Floyd people wanted to see Immediate results so I find it interesting that the epicenter of the defund movement Minneapolis. Now you have elected leader saying hey, this is actually going to be a long-term effort. So let's look at a city like Austin Texas

1 (11m 55s):
Monumental cuts for the Austin Police Department the city council approved a budget that cuts about a third of that Department's money. So

3 (12m 3s):
what I found interesting in September the governor of Texas actually said wait hold up if places like Austin and cities that have more than a million people living there one. Start sort of screwing around with their Police Department either defunding it or taking away. Its powers. The governor now is threatening to put those police departments under State

1 (12m 22s):
rule some cities in Texas want to defund and dismantle police departments in our state. We cannot let this happen in Texas.

3 (12m 33s):
So that's another lesson when we talk about police reform. Sometimes it doesn't matter what cities want sometimes states have to get involved. Sometimes the feds have to get involved. Here's something else that we We talked about when it comes to do funding millions and millions of dollars a year or is given from doj down to local police departments for everything from Juvenile Justice initiatives to picking up drug dealers off the

1 (12m 55s):
street. So no one be it Minneapolis Austin Portland Seattle that said like we're going to take very seriously. This idea of defunding police has had like remarkable just absolute budget-cutting overhaul kind of success

3 (13m 10s):
not there too many roadblocks. So New York City. Here's an Example we have a progressive mayor. We are now led by more or less a progressive city council and on paper. Yes. It was voted this summer to take about a billion dollars from the nypd's approximate six billion dollar police

1 (13m 25s):
budget. We want to shift resources more and more into young people in particular into youth center's we want to shift resources more and more into public

3 (13m 33s):
housing but critics will say that's funny math. Number one What was decided was sort of hit pause when it comes to hiring new cops. We're not going to have an academy class for a while. All and when it comes to school safety officers are really expensive part in the policing budget for now. It's still under the NYPD. But what our mayor did was say, you know,

1 (13m 52s):
what we're saying is over the next few years. We would figure out what a transition looks like that is safe and effective and it would have to be proven along the way that it would work. Now again details still being

3 (14m 5s):
negotiated. So it's sort of playing around who's going to pay for school safety officers. Did he get rid of them? No, it's more or less who will pay for it in a couple. Of years, but what happened was and we saw this on the state level Albany. Our state capital is now led by liberals. Let's have more police accountability. Let's make it easier for journalists, like myself and police watch dogs out there to get a police records that law was passed. It's called 50 a your New York listeners will know what I'm talking about. Yeah, we covered it on the show since then lawsuits Galore from the police Union World saying no stop it right now. Do not release any more documents. Oh,

2 (14m 43s):
Again, just because you have

3 (14m 44s):
alignment from democratic lawmakers in the public to make changes in policing doesn't mean the story's over.

1 (14m 52s):
We've been talking about changes to police budgets and even drastic changes to police budgets. What about just changes to policing what about simple police reform that cities and towns may have pledged to in the wake of the death of George Floyd.

3 (15m 7s):
There's a organization called the now National Council of State legislatures. I hope I didn't botch that and CSL for the acronym and this is an organization that watches State Bill State legislation for many topics including policing and overall since the death of George Floyd ncsl says there's been about 500 proposed bills on police reform everything from body cameras to have a cop should be sued in court and about only 10% Thus far has actually passed but when you really start digging into what these 500 or so bills have been on it runs across the gamut. Another thing which I found interesting in States like Colorado and Connecticut is this idea of intervening police departments across the country and now state laws like Colorado are now requiring that when a cop sees excessive force going on a obviously don't engage in it, but more important you see something and you don't intervene you'll be held liable to and I think that's a very important change in police reform because it's sort of weeding out this culture of the blue wall of Silence.

3 (16m 12s):
So now stays Are starting to attack that saying hey if you don't intervene when you're watching your fellow officer beat the crap out of somebody you could lose your badge. So what I'm actually looking into right now is police liability. So it's really interesting in Connecticut. If a police officer is sued in court and is determined in court that they asked in a malicious way. So it's very specific legal language about being malicious and engaging and wanton acts then that cop as of 2021 will have to pay For their own lawsuit and any damages and if we recall with cases like the Brianna Taylor which was about a 12 million-dollar settlement. Sometimes when cops are sued and families win that's millions and millions of dollars.

3 (16m 55s):
So right now in Connecticut, you have major push back going on from the police lobbying role of saying hey, wait a minute. How do you have want our cops to pay for that? But then you have folks on the other side saying wait a minute. It's going to be too rare when they actually pay because it's such a specific legal language. Village when a court has to decide that a cop more or less messed up and they are responsible for that pay

1 (17m 18s):
out. Let's talk a bit about the opposite side of the spectrum. I mean, I've been hearing that there are a lot of cities that are committed to increasing their police budgets in this moment.

3 (17m 28s):
So I thought what happened in Phoenix was actually pretty interesting you did have Push from activists to cut the budget and instead what the city decided to do was to grow the police accountability budget from about 400 thousand to about 3 million. Their argument is number one. We're not going to cut the police budget but to appease activist. Let's give more money to the their No police accountability office, which you could argue wasn't doing such a great job to begin with and then across the pond. So to speak in Texas in Houston, Texas. Where art a vestido is the Houston Police Chief and he's also president of the major City Chiefs Association, which is a collection of about 80 big city police chief.

3 (18m 9s):
So in the policing World art has a lot of political clap and the police chief there was able to successfully push off any calls to Van door cut the policing budget and actually in Houston, Texas at grew by a bit. So again you have policing and whether or not we should fund them is very unique to city and city and state to state.

1 (18m 30s):
Well, I think we can safely imagine what happens when you increase a police budget. They'll be more cops more resources. But what happens when you cut one does that mean just the direct opposite fewer cops fewer resources

3 (18m 42s):
great question. So what we found and we really dug into Memphis and Chicago is number one what gets Specialized programs so programs that work with kids programs that work on building relationships with the community. What's not cut is Patrol and what we actually found was an opposite effect. Once you start cutting specialized units, they start showing more work at Patrol officers which then leads to more Patrol officers working more overtime, which then leads to more cops getting themselves involved and use of force complaints and we found academic studies that showed that tired cops exhausted cop. Ops lead to basically crap your police Behavior.

2 (19m 22s):
So I think what people start really

3 (19m 25s):
demanding to defund the police what you really need to understand is you're never going to defund patrol cops what you're actually going to cut our specialized units cops who deal with the homeless cops who deal with mental health and that's a part of a larger conversation another term. We keep hearing about reimagining policing which a lot of police Chiefs support reimagining and that saying, hey, let's not have cops deal with the homeless. Let's not

2 (19m 49s):
have

3 (19m 49s):
Cops deal with the mentally ill let's have more social workers working in those fields and let more cops go back to patrol. But until that happens when you start slashing police budgets as they did in 2008 and 2009. All you're doing is throwing more work on

1 (20m 4s):
patrol cops, but my understanding of defund the police is that that is exactly what people are asking for. They're asking for more Community Services. They're asking for peace officers. They're asking for someone who shows up to your car accident. I with a gun but who's you know there to help you is that Message getting through like rethink your budgets more community service is less policing of people.

3 (20m 26s):
Well, I think people are forgetting the defund movement occurred in another crisis the covid-19 pandemic. So I was working on a story right before the death of George Floyd examining how Worth Police Department's adapting knowing they are about to lose money. The LA police chief had talked about, you know, I'm about to lose money to Seattle police chief. An interview with me talked about getting prepared for budget cuts and ways she was going to do things like with virtual reality doing training via app and all these interesting ways of marrying technology and police training preparing for police budget cuts knowing she had a trim money somehow.

3 (21m 6s):
So is that like police budgets were going to balloon and go out of control? What was happening in some cities like New York. They were like, oh, you know, we're about to have budget cuts because of covid-19. Let's leave the police budget alone and I think if it wasn't for the death of the George Floyd that's what we would have seen you would have seen City smaller than you are saying. Oh, no, we have to make budget cuts across all City agencies as Seattle Was preparing to do and then you'd have some cities who maybe lean more to the lasting have bigger budgets like New York saying, you know, leave the police budget alone. But of course we saw the outcry and the frustration the summer and is still ongoing today. So it's sort of too hard to tell because I think it's too easy.

3 (21m 49s):
Me to say oh, you know sooner or later. We're going to defund the police and cut budgets where economic downturn right now, right? Like we have no idea when the economy is going to bounce back. Of course, they're going to be budget cuts. There has to be budget cuts.

1 (22m 6s):
And Beyond the budgets, I mean what's your sense of how much has really changed in attitudes within police departments? I mean, it's not like this all went away after George void. We still see cases of police brutality police pushing around peaceful protesters unwarranted use of lethal

3 (22m 25s):
Force. Well, in addition to the state reforms that we had talked about earlier in Colorado and Connecticut, but something did happen earlier this month a black man named John. Price 31 years old was very popular in his hometown. He was on the football team. He worked for the city public works department and he also had a personal training business. He had tried to break up a fight between a man and a woman

1 (22m 48s):
eventually they took it outside and someone called the police

3 (22m 51s):
and a 22 year old white cop rolled up to the scene and instead of breaking up the fight there.

2 (22m 57s):
He is gunshots went off and I turned and looked at them and I said a cop just shot somebody he shot and

3 (23m 3s):
killed the Good Samaritan. Mr. Price

1 (23m 5s):
well City. APD has only said that the officer is now on paid administrative

3 (23m 9s):
leave and usually a Texas shooting of a black man would take weeks and weeks perhaps months for any investigations to wrap up for any announcement to be made and perhaps this is my New York journalist bias. I would expect much to be done with the cop. I was extremely surprised this week when Texas Department of Public Safety who investigate some shootings across the state push to have the off.

1 (23m 35s):
Sir arrested Texas police officer is facing murder charges in the shooting death of a black man who

3 (23m 40s):
was reportedly trying to break up a fight. Now this 22 year old cop has been charged with murder and is being held in jail on a million dollar Bond again. This is more or less rural, Texas young white police officer held in jail for murdering a 31 year old black man. Would that have happened two years ago? I highly doubt it.

1 (24m 9s):
You can find some own bikes albums reporting at The Marshall Project dot o-- r-- g-- I'm Sean Rama's Forum. It's today explained before we go a plug for a podcast from our friends at worldly. They drop every Thursday and today they're dedicating their episode to a very important Story the outbreak of violence between Armenia and Azerbaijan over nagorno-karabakh. It's a mountainous territory about the size of Delaware populated. Mostly by Armenians that's been at the center of a decades-long conflict that's currently flaring up and threatening to dry and Russia and Turkey understanding the story hinges on the historical context and our colleagues spell it out for you today find that episode of worldly wherever you find this.

1 (25m 10s):
Chemotherapy is really transformational

2 (25m 12s):
today Christopher for breakfast brought to you by

3 (25m 16s):
Novartis. This is not the future anymore. This is the

2 (25m 19s):
present a global health care company that's reimagining medicine. Just the tip of the iceberg crispr. It does sound a lot like a breakfast cereal. But what is it really

3 (25m 31s):
think about it as a pair of programmable

2 (25m 33s):
molecular scissors and can

3 (25m 35s):
cut anywhere we

2 (25m 36s):
target Susan Stevenson. Heads up the cell and gene therapy initiative at the Novartis institutes for biomedical research. So how did crisper getting your breakfast when Christopher was observed by researchers in the early 2000s. It was heralded as

3 (25m 51s):
a miracle cure for yogurt.

2 (25m 54s):
That's right. Yogurt is basically made from bacteria, which can get viruses just like you and I can food scientist discovered this strange repetitive DNA sequence in the Genome of certain strains of bacteria that are Used in Dairy production turns out it was actually an immune system enabling the bacteria to fight off viruses by cutting their DNA into bits. So the researchers turned crispr into a technology using it to vaccinate yogurt and cheese cultures against infection one giant step for the dairy industry not to earth-shattering for anyone else until scientists outside of the dairy world started

1 (26m 35s):
asking help from cutting the DNA of viruses. Has can this also do something

2 (26m 40s):
else Dominic Hefner is the director of genomic science and Novartis institutes for biomedical research scientists are now using crispr on human cells in labs around the world

1 (26m 53s):
in the hands of the

2 (26m 53s):
scientists. We use parts of the crisper Machinery to cut DNA in desired

1 (26m 59s):
places to alter. The genetic code of cells

2 (27m 2s):
captures team is using crispr to study the roots of the disease other. Are designing crisper based Technologies to treat disease

1 (27m 12s):
currently the most promising applications also called Mono genetic diseases so diseases which are really caused by one arrow in the

2 (27m 20s):
genome. In other words crispr is ideal for treating diseases caused by a mutation in a single Gene

1 (27m 28s):
diseases, like Huntington's disease Parkinson's disease muscular dystrophies that the Telus see me has

2 (27m 34s):
inherited

1 (27m 35s):
retinopathy and there's many

2 (27m 37s):
others crisper. Or it turns out may enable researchers to carefully snip DNA and fix broken cells at the genetic level Susan Stephenson and her colleagues at Novartis are developing a crisper based therapy for sickle cell disease. That's a genetic condition that affects the shape and function of the body's red blood cells leading to pain crises and significantly reducing life expectancy the Food and Drug Administration has approved plans for a clinical trial of the experimental

3 (28m 6s):
therapy. We take the Jim's own cells, we deliver the

2 (28m 10s):
components of the crispr system into the stem cells. And then we re Infuse those Gene modified stem cells back into the patient. The idea is that the repaired cells will then flourish and fill the patient's bloodstream with healthy blood cells unlike traditional medicines this treatment targets the root cause of the disease at the molecular level crispr is just one of the Technologies this powering cell and gene therapy. Happy and exciting new approach to treating disease. These treatments are designed to be given just once so one time

3 (28m 45s):
therapies can result in a potentially

2 (28m 48s):
lifelong pure

3 (28m 49s):
just a single

1 (28m 50s):
treatment for the first time scientists really have a tool in their hand that allows them to dream and think of potentially being able to really correct the underlying cause of disease.

2 (29m 6s):
So despite its humble origins in your breakfast bowl this revolutionary technology has huge potential and for Dominic Heppner crispr is more than just another tool in the geneticist toolbox. It represents a huge leap forward in shared scientific knowledge the story of crisper actually shows how siloed thinking

1 (29m 28s):
hand Pros scientific progress. I mean keep breaks through often happens when Experts of different fields combine know how Ow, and only when gifted bacteriologists and mammalian cell biologists started to work side by side the true potential of this discovery was realized for more

2 (29m 47s):
information on how Novartis is reimagining medicine. Go to Novartis.com cell and Gene.