0 (1s):
Modi Modi Modi

1 (3s):
Modi. And we are bringing you all the details of Prime Minister Modi's visit to the United States. He has been welcomed at the New York airport.

2 (14s):
Indian pm Narendra Modi is not just visiting New York airports. This week he's in Washington, DC to meet with President Biden, the

1 (22s):
First state visit of Prime Minister Modi. That is being seen as a major turning point for the India, US bilateral relations, which

2 (30s):
There were bans and an honor guard on the south lawn of the White House. And later there will be meetings on everything from semiconductors to security, then a state dinner. There will also be protests here in DC because India under Modi is backsliding on things that democracies prize, like human rights and press freedoms and independent courts. But the Biden administration has welcomed Modi with pomp. Despite those circumstances. All this ahead on today explained.

4 (1m 1s):
I'm so sorry ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

5 (1m 8s):
Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one. Wait,

6 (1m 11s):
Who are you?

5 (1m 12s):
I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one.

6 (1m 21s):
No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

7 (1m 31s):
This episode is brought to you by WhatsApp. Every day, billions of unencrypted texts are sent, meaning your private messages are just as easy to listen to as this podcast. So your silly selfies inside jokes, heartfelt confessions or personal information may not be as personal as you think. Switch to WhatsApp to turn on total privacy with end-to-end encryption. Message privately. Learn more about WhatsApp's privacy at whatsapp.com/privacy.

8 (2m 7s):
You are listening to today explained.

2 (2m 12s):
I'm Noel King and here is Secretary of State Anthony Blinken previewing Nora Modi's visit.

9 (2m 19s):
Simply put, we see this defining relationship as a unique connection between the world's oldest and largest democracies, with a special obligation now to demonstrate that our governments can deliver for and empower all of our citizens.

2 (2m 37s):
Sadanand and Dhume is a columnist for the Wall Street Journal and a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, Sadanand and Anthony Blinken has spoken. What say you, why is this visit so significant? It's

10 (2m 49s):
Significant for a few reasons. First of all, this is Modi's first state visit to Washington. This is only the third state visit that we've seen in President Biden's term. So the, the level of kind of ceremonial significance has been elevated. Prime Minister Modi is also going to address a joint session of Congress. He has done that before, but this is the first time, you know, If, you had to sum up that the US has really pulled out all the stops for Prime, Minister, Modi.

2 (3m 19s):
The relationship between the United States and Modi has not always been simple. There was a point in relatively recent history when Modi was banned from visiting the United States. What caused that?

10 (3m 31s):
So you have to go back in history to 2002 when Modi was the chief Minister, which is the equivalent of Governor of the Indian state of Gujarat. And there were horrific Hindu Muslim riots that occurred on his watch as Chief Minister in which Muslims suffered disproportionately. There were basically anti-Muslim riots, I think would be a better way to describe them, them. And at the time, the feeling in the US was that Modi as Chief Minister had at best not done enough to curb the violence and at worse been complicit in it. And that led to them evoking, rarely used In fact.

10 (4m 13s):
I don't think it's ever been used before or since law to revoke his visa. But all this was, you know, before he became Prime Minister. And once he became Prime Minister, things were smoothed over very quickly.

2 (4m 25s):
Why then, or how then did he get back in the good graces of the us? I

10 (4m 28s):
Mean quite simply because he is the Prime Minister of India. And India matters a lot.

2 (4m 33s):
Okay, fair enough. Leave the answer there. What, why does India matter so much to the United States? Well,

10 (4m 39s):
For a few reasons, and I think the most obvious reason is that in Washington, many people view India through the prism of China And If. you look around Asia, you see only one other country with a comparable population. In fact, India recently overtook China to become the world's most populous nation. It has more than 1.4 billion people. It has a large and rapidly growing economy. It overtook the UK not long ago to become the world's fifth largest economy at market exchange rates. It has a long disputed boundary with China. So not only does it have a border with China, but it also has a very tense and fraught relationship with China.

10 (5m 22s):
There was violence on that border three years ago in 2020, which claimed the lives of 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese soldiers

11 (5m 29s):
In the remote Western Himalayas. There is little evidence of what led Indian and Chinese soldiers to their worst violence in decades. India and China share the world's longest unmarked border. Both sides have increased their military presence in recent months with tension rising over who owns what land.

10 (5m 50s):
And all this means that together the US and India share an interest in ensuring that China does not emerge as the hegemon of Asia. If I had to point to one thing driving it, I would say the one word answer is China.

2 (6m 7s):
What does the United States want from India? What does it want India to do?

10 (6m 11s):
It wants India to be a capable potential counterweight to China. And there are a couple of elements to that,

12 (6m 19s):
Mr. Prime. Minister. There's so much that our countries can and will do together, and I'm committed to making US India partnership among the closest we have on earth.

10 (6m 30s):
It wants India to be able to defend itself on its border with China. It wants China to feel that there is another important power in Asia with which it shares a boundary so that China can't simply move all its attention to the Pacific and to East Asia. It has to kind of keep one eye on its Himalayan border within India. It wants, in an ideal world for India to be a kind of an example for other countries in the region. To say that, look, you can have a fast growing economy in a democratic system. You don't need to become an autocracy like China. So for various reasons, the US sees India's rise as being in its own interest.

2 (7m 10s):
You cite India as a democracy. China as an authoritarian country. India is less of a democracy now than it was when Narendra Modi became Prime Minister If. you look at the economist chart of, of democracies around the world, what you will see and what you've surely seen is that India has been sliding, sliding, sliding into less democratic territory. Can you tell me why? When the international community looks at India, it says over the last decade it has backslid into something that is different than a pure democracy.

10 (7m 42s):
I'll tell you something that's a little bit interesting, Noel. Every time I write an article, which is, you know, fairly often about different aspects of India's democratic backsliding, I get an enormous amount of pushback from Indians on, on social media. And the reason for that is that If, you look at India purely in terms of voting and in electoral terms, Indian democra actually quite robust. The last general election in 2019, there were more, more than 600 million people voted. It has a high turnout rate. Turnout rate is somewhere in the in, in the, in the mid sixties. Governments change peacefully. So if If you measure of democracy is the ability of people to go out and vote and change their government.

10 (8m 26s):
India's democracy, In fact is, and it remains quite robust. But when we're looking at democracy, what we mean really is liberal democracy. And by liberal democracy we mean are the institutions that are designed to check government excesses. The media is weak. A large number of television channels I characterize as lap dogs more than watchdogs. A lot of the newspapers are too scared to be critical. You do see columns here and there. It's not as though you see no criticism. But I would argue that on Modi's watch, many journalists have been cowed and the the quality of the public discourse has declined sharply.

10 (9m 7s):
The courts are often not willing to take unpopular stances that would challenge the government. And the bureaucracy has really become an instrument of the ruling party, rather than standing apart as an independent body If. you take those three things together, the state of judiciary, the state of the media, and the state of the bureaucracy. It means that there are far fewer checks on Modi as a Prime Minister, then they were on his predecessor Manmohan Singh. And that's really at the heart of people's concern about the quality of Indian democracy.

2 (9m 44s):
Why does India being less of a democracy than it was a decade ago, seem to matter so much to the United States?

10 (9m 52s):
Well, I mean If. you care about democracy, you have to care about India, right? I mean you're talking about one six of the world's population. Lemme put it this way, if India is a liberal democracy, it means democracy is a mass consumption good on our planet. It's like a Toyota. If India is not a democracy or not a liberal democracy, it means that democracy is a luxury good like a Louis Tomba. And that is a sort of, you know, it's a fundamental and profound difference for the whole planet. And that's why the US cares about it.

2 (10m 26s):
That was Sadanand and Dume of the Wall Street Journal. So India being a democracy may seem like a minor thing. There are a lot of democracies out there these days, but at one point about a generation ago, India very nearly became something else other than a democracy in a very dramatic fashion. And we're gonna tell you about it coming up next,

13 (10m 53s):
Fox Creative. This is advertiser content brought to you by WhatsApp.

14 (10m 57s):
Privacy is empowerment and agency.

13 (11m 0s):
Billions of texts are sent every day, and you may think they're private, but without end-to-end encryption. Cybersecurity expert Matt Mitchell says our messages are anything but secure.

14 (11m 10s):
Many times there's an assumption that we're having a private conversation with just our friends when we're actually having that conversation in a very crowded elevator filled with random people, some who might not have our best interest at heart.

13 (11m 24s):
With WhatsApp, your personal messages are kept private by default. To understand how we asked Matt to share an ABCs of end-to-end encryption. A is for asymmetric

14 (11m 35s):
With asymmetric encryption. It uses mathematics and we are forging a public key and a private key when we use a product like WhatsApp. This lock-in key exists inside the device itself. When you send a message, it is scrambled the entire time, only visible to you and to the tendon recipients.

13 (11m 55s):
B is for backdoor.

14 (11m 57s):
A backdoor is a secret way to get into the message. They can be created by bad actors or hacked in.

13 (12m 4s):
And C is for cipher.

14 (12m 6s):
We're talking about the ways that the messages are scrambled and the ways they can be decoded, almost like a secret decoder ring.

13 (12m 15s):
So when you send your personal messages through WhatsApp's, end-to-end encrypted platform, you know, no third parties can decipher them.

14 (12m 22s):
The more we use good digital hygiene, the more we protect all of us. WhatsApp

13 (12m 28s):
Always message privately.

4 (12m 35s):
I'm so sorry ma'am, I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

5 (12m 41s):
Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one. Wait,

6 (12m 45s):
Who are you?

5 (12m 46s):
I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this

6 (12m 54s):
One. No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

2 (13m 9s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King, friend of the show, Han Radan teaches at Georgetown's School of Foreign Service, Irfan. What was Indian democracy supposed to be like? Was it supposed to be like the one we have here in the us?

15 (13m 23s):
One could argue that it was supposed to be even greater I mean, huh? you know, in 1947, when India becomes independent from the British Empire, it immediately forms a constitutional democracy that is universal suffrage in a very poor country with large amounts of illiteracy, big urban, rural divide. But that was fundamentally multi-religious and multi-ethnic.

16 (13m 48s):
At the stroke of the midnight hour, when the world sleeps, India will awake to life and freedom.

15 (14m 1s):
And you know, at the risk of being provocative, I mean one should remember that in 1947 in large parts of the United States, African-Americans right to vote was still not fully protected. It wasn't in 65 and the Voting Rights Act that we really get to the same level of universal suffrage that Indians had enjoyed for 20 years prior to that. So what I would say the precious thing about India is that it was an example of a developing country, a newly independent country, showing that electoral liberal democracy could survive and flourish in a country that was, in many ways fighting against every odd, it was a poor country, it was a multi-religious, multi-ethnic, a cacophony of beautiful languages.

15 (14m 45s):
you know, 500 plus dialects. And yet elections became a festival. So that was what at India's election symbolized for the world. That it wasn't just that democracy wouldn't just be something that could happen in rich European, north American, largely white countries, but could In fact be something that is truly global. And if we lose that, we lose an example that has served as an inspiration for people around the world that they too can create functioning democracies

2 (15m 19s):
In the United States. As you know, many people, a lot of mainstream analysts believe that the big risk to our democracy was Donald Trump. Was his a apparent belief that democracy was less important than his predecessors believed It was. And it makes me wonder about India. Is Narendra Modi the reason that India is backsliding?

15 (15m 41s):
It is true that under the Mr. Modi's majority BJP government, the last 10 years have seen, I would argue, an acceleration of some of the forces that undermine democracy, both in India, but would do so anywhere in the world. This larger majoritarianism, the notion as with Mr. Trump, that there's a true Indian, right in this case, a Hindu upper caste Indian, whose voices are more important, whose preferences are more important than other people. And maybe just to, again, draw that analogy, a willingness to use and demonize when convenient, the media, the bureaucracy demonize it when it seems to be trying to be autonomous and independent.

15 (16m 23s):
Use it when it's willing to do it's, you know, the government's bidding, for instance, you know, the current government has made it a talking point. They've introduced a whole new lexicon in which to discuss the media. So common terms often used by parts of the government, and those who defend the government is to refer to independent journalists as prostitutes term created combined press with the notion of a prostitute, right? Someone who sells themselves for money. Media houses have been, you know, scrutinized by the tax authorities, often with very unclear mandates,

18 (17m 8s):
An explosive escalation amid bbc.

15 (17m 13s):
The BBC earlier, the CO had its offices raided after it aired the documentary about the riots in Gura in 2002, when Mr. Modi was the chief Minister of that state.

18 (17m 26s):
Tax officials aided by top financial department officials swooped down on multiple BBC India offices in Delhi and Mumbai.

15 (17m 35s):
No clear reason for what the alleged fence was other than to send a signal that even someone like the BBC was not immune to government interference for doing journalistic work when Mr. Modi didn't invent that playbook. India's real crisis for democracy, arguably was in 1975 when longtime predecessor in the Gandhi declared emergency suspended the Constitution, who

2 (18m 2s):
Is India Aug Gandhi. And what exactly happened when she was leading India

15 (18m 6s):
In the Ug? Gandhi was in the first female Prime Minister. He is also the daughter of Alro. you know, one of India's most prominent independence leaders. And India's first Prime Minister

19 (18m 22s):
And democracy itself is different in every single country, even of the west. So each country has to find what is most suitable. Now we want a democracy which makes the people's voice heard.

15 (18m 35s):
Mrs. Gandhi is installed as Prime Minister. She's a young woman. She's installed because the congress parties leadership thinks that they can essentially use her as a puppet, but she proves to be quite stronger, harder to manipulate than they had hoped for. And, but what it does is that it breaks for her a trust. She doesn't trust those around her. And we see a steady centralization of power in the early 1970s where she is really trying to accumulate power for herself. Not necessarily because she was authoritarian, but because those public institutions were no longer to a liking.

19 (19m 13s):
The president has proclaimed emergency,

15 (19m 16s):
It comes to a breaking point in 1975, and she declares what is called the emergency.

19 (19m 21s):
This is nothing to panic about. I'm sure you are all conscious of the deep and widespread conspiracy, which has been brewing

20 (19m 30s):
Under a new development today. Citizens lose their rights to appear before courts of law if arrested under the emergency,

15 (19m 37s):
A suspension of the constitution, a suspension of habeas corpus attack on the press. That's quite, you know, vicious, unprecedented in India's history, widespread imprisonment of political opponents.

19 (19m 51s):
These were the people who were destroying democracy, destroying democracy, destroying, destroy democracy. How? Because, well, I'm sorry that you people have such short memories, but because they felt they could not win an election, they had said, we must take the battle to the streets

15 (20m 9s):
This last, for a year and a half before she calls for elections and really critically loses those elections. It's a miscalculation of epic proportions for her where she thinks she's so popular that she'll win these elections. But In fact, the Indian electorate says, no, we, you're done. What you just did was a step too far. Right? We take our democracy very seriously. She does come back to power in 1980 and begins to fuel some of this religious extremism again, playing in a playbook that has been followed by her successors and tragically is assassinated. In 1984,

21 (20m 49s):
Mrs. Gandhi was apparently shot at her home in New Delhi by two members of her own security guard. Reports are that she was shot eight to 10 times with four bullets striking her in the lower abdomen.

15 (21m 1s):
So a really complicated individual for many, a great leader, the first woman woman leader, the first woman defense Minister of the country where the right, but also with this really ugly stain of her work in undermining India's democracy, but also then maybe suggesting that India's democracy was more resilient than we worried it would be then, and arguably is more resilient than we give it credit for being. Now

2 (21m 28s):
What you've just described, what Indira Gandhi did is arguably worse than what Modi has done. Suspending the Constitution, it's like a huge move. Indian democracy comes back from it. They vote her out of office, democracy wins, it holds. And we come to today, and I I must now ask you, having seen Indian democracy recover once very spectacularly, what happens if it doesn't recover this time? What do Indians lose? What does the world lose?

15 (21m 57s):
We lose, in the worst case scenario, are one true example of a developing country with a genuinely multi-religious, multi-ethnic, competitive, multi-party system, right? So a lot of multis in there, and that's deliberate because India's true strength is its diversity. And there are very few examples around the world in which that kinda diversity coexist with a functioning electoral democracy. But the challenge today, and this is true around the world, is that today's challenge to democracy doesn't run through suspending elections, but runs rather by recognizing that elections can be won in a free and fair manner by appealing to very majoritarian tendencies, right?

15 (22m 41s):
So you appeal to the majority religion, the MA majority ethnicity, and you use the institutions of modern democracy, a legislature, the courts to In fact instantiate a set of rules and laws that protect the majority and that subjugate the minority. So what does an A future India that continues to have elections, that continues to review, even have competitive, noisy, messy elections, but in which 200 plus million of its citizens no longer feels welcome in society, no longer feels like they're safe in society, no longer feels like they can dress the way they wish, live the lives that they have wished to live.

2 (23m 20s):
It also strikes me that there's a lot at stake here, not just for India, but for the rest of the world. If Indian democracy fails under Modi or even under whoever comes after Modi, what does it mean for the larger cause of democracy around the world?

15 (23m 34s):
Everything from undermining in many ways, the rhetorical framing of the conflict with China, Mr. Biden has made democracy versus autocracy the organizing principle of his foreign policy. So what does a partnership with India as an increasingly important partner, but where democracy is not as protected mean for the credibility of American foreign policy? On the flip side, it gives China a really powerful talking point. China wants to represent its form of governance as a legitimate way of thinking about, you know, what it means to be a functioning state in the developing world. Sort of really frame this as being the best, as a particular point of view.

15 (24m 17s):
But ours is just legitimate. India right now is an inconvenient fact for the Chinese government as a developing country in the same region, but with a functioning democracy, the loss of that undermines that. But maybe more importantly, one cannot underestimate the importance of India's legacy. 75 years of elections of democracy in being a beacon of hope for brown and black people around the world that were seeking their own elections, much as the American Revolution and the founding fathers here served as inspiration for Naru and Gandhi and Mr. Beker, the architect of India's constitution, India's constitution and elections have served as a beacon of hope for people in the African continent throughout Asia and around the world.

15 (25m 8s):
And we need to think of that as being a global public good that India has served as and as such needs to be protected. It's a world resource and India should be justifiably proud of their democracy, but as his true around the world, we should also be asking hard questions so that we can preserve that legacy.

2 (25m 35s):
Han Nooruddin of Georgetown's School of Foreign Service. Today's episode was produced by Haleema s Shah, and edited by Matthew Collette. Laura Bullard is our fact checker, and Michael Raphael was our engineer Today. The rest of our team includes Hai Artsy Ha Modi, Amanda Luellen Miles, Bryan Victoria Chamberlain, mother of two, Fiona Petros, Patrick Boyd, and my co-host Sean Ramas firm. Our supervising producer is Amina Elsa, and our EP is Miranda Kennedy. We use music by Breakmaster cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. I'm Noel King today. explained is distributed to public radio stations across these United States by W N Y C in New York, and we're part of the Vox Media Podcast network.