0 (0s):
Vermont's Governor Phil Scott addressed reporters and Vermonters earlier today and told them that after days of flooding, it's not over yet.

1 (9s):
Unfortunately, in parts of the state, we're now expecting severe thunderstorms, which could bring more flash, flooding, hail, and even the threat of a tornado.

0 (19s):
As many as nine inches of rain fell in parts of Vermont this week. To the question of whether it's possible to be prepared for something like this, consider Christiana Athena Blackwell. She moved to a new house in Plainfield Vermont with her husband and baby five days ago, and left her unpacked boxes in the basement as you do, which then flooded.

2 (39s):
We have to face that reality and get prepared for the future, but I have my family, I have what matters and a really nice community. I am worried about Vermont and sad

3 (52s):
Coming

0 (53s):
Up on today. Explained preparing for disasters in an age when they just keep coming. Support for today explained comes from Washington Wise. It's an original podcast from Charles Schwab. Decisions made in Washington DC can affect the markets every day, but what policy changes should investors be watching Washington Wise is an original podcast for investors from Charles Schwab. The show covers the stories making news in Washington, and also how they might affect your finances and investments. You can listen today@schwab.com slash Washington wise. That's schwab.com/washington wise.

5 (1m 33s):
You've probably heard about the job of an intimacy coordinator, but do you know what they actually do?

6 (1m 39s):
And every intimacy coordinator's kit is gonna be some form of Mint, really, I think most of the time. Wait. Oh, a hundred percent, huh? Then we add in the full retro Listerine breath strip, which is crucial

5 (1m 51s):
Several years into the era of the intimacy coordinator. We ask what they've changed for the better in Hollywood and what still needs work. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast,

0 (2m 17s):
It's today explained ab Noel King Nina Keck is a senior Reporter with Vermont public, and she has had an unusually busy week.

3 (2m 25s):
Normally I cover older Vermonters and issues around aging, but with the flooding that's gone on, it's all hands on deck, and we are all focused on the, the damage and the recovery right now.

0 (2m 38s):
What is the mood like in Vermont today? How are people feeling?

3 (2m 43s):
I spent most of yesterday afternoon in Ludlow, which was one of the hardest hit towns in the state. And you know, on the one hand it was truly devastated by the flooding. Businesses were grappling with the after effects, the cleanup.

7 (3m 4s):
There's, there's furniture all over the streets and people's lawns broken glass, and it's, it's chaos just to look around and see and try to figure out where all these things came from.

3 (3m 15s):
There was a palpable feeling of frustration and sadness, but I have to say, there was this mixture of energy too, and community spirit that really was kind of awe inspiring to see because there was this muck everywhere. People were in filthy mud boots and shorts. They were tired. Some were wearing masks because now the, the mud is kind of dried and it's created this brownish dust that's everywhere. But they were all cleaning together and they were sharing stories and talking about, well, how did you do? And how did you do? And what can I do to help? And, and that was kind of heartening to see.

3 (3m 55s):
So I think I've seen a lot of destruction. I've seen a lot of blown out roads and crumbling pavement and houses that are gonna need a lot of work and buildings and businesses that are closed. But I, I think there were no fatalities so far that have been reported, which is really kind of a miracle.

0 (4m 18s):
I read that in the hardest hit parts, up to nine inches of rain fell, and it was very fast in the areas that were hardest hit. What kind of destruction are we talking about here? What should we envision?

3 (4m 32s):
So my colleague up in Montpelier said, you cannot understate the devastation that occurred in our state capitol. Everything was underwater.

8 (4m 42s):
We are looking down Main Street towards State Street, and you can see what a lake it is.

3 (4m 48s):
He said he saw people being rescued, they had swiftboat rescue teams that were operating all over the state. But he said he also saw just random citizens in kayaks and canoes and on paddle boards in Ludlow where I was yesterday when the waters were raging, cars and trucks were floating down the street and being submerged under bridges. The damage has been catastrophic. We're all still sort of wrapping our heads around the damage that occurred. Thousands of homes and businesses have, have been, have been really damaged, and it's gonna take months, years to, to clean up and, and do the repair work necessary.

0 (5m 30s):
I spoke to a woman earlier this week who had just moved to Plainfield Vermont three days in Plainfield, and her house flooded.

2 (5m 38s):
I can see the river from our house, but it was looking okay until about three, between three and five is rapidly raising and We were getting, you know, okay, nervous, let's make a plan. Should we have a place to go just in case.

0 (5m 54s):
When was the last time Vermont experienced something like this?

3 (5m 57s):
The last thing that comes to mind is Tropical Storm Irene, which was 2011. That was a hurricane when it hit the East Coast of the United States, but by the time it got to Vermont, it had dropped down to a tropical storm. Nonetheless, it dropped, I wanna say 11 inches at least in some parts of the state, not at least, but about 11 inches over a very short amount of time. And it just hammered the state. This recent rain that we got was similar because there was a lot of it, but it was over several days after we had already had saturated grounds. So people are drawing a lot of similarities, but also differences. Some areas of the state were much harder hit recently, where wider swaths of the state were, were hurt in Irene.

9 (6m 44s):
This supposed a hundred year scenario has now happened twice in, you know, a span of 11, 12 years. And so there's definitely some bewilderment. People are still trying to wrap their heads around it.

0 (6m 56s):
The woman in Plainfield, we spoke to Christiana. She told me that an emergency worker showed up at her home before the worst of a flooding started and told her to get out.

2 (7m 5s):
We got a knock on the door from emergency team just saying, we're evacuating this street waste no time, don't go left. Take a right, go to the Opera house.

0 (7m 18s):
That seems like good Disaster preparedness after Hurricane Irene. Was there a sense that this could happen again?

3 (7m 24s):
Absolutely. Vermont Governor Phil Scott declared a state of emergency ahead of the storm on Sunday, and I think had a lot of emergency preparations in the works. I, I believe there were swiftboat rescue teams that had been requested. Several came from North Carolina, he had reached out to other states, Massachusetts sent up crews and they were available to provide aid. And I think just communities Vermont, I think you have to realize is for people that don't, don't live here, it's a very rural state. It's, it's a lot of small towns and villages and communities. It's hyper local. And after going through Irene, a lot of towns developed much better emergency plans.

3 (8m 10s):
My own town has a, an emergency plan director and really mobilized ways to reach out to neighbors on a hyperlocal level. And I think, you know, you saw that in communities this time around, they, they kind of knew the drill that, you know, this can happen and this is who we should talk to in our town. This is maybe where the best place is to have emergency meetings or provide shelter later. So I definitely think the state was better prepared, but you know, you really never can fully prepare for something like this because you don't know how bad it's gonna be and, and where it's gonna happen.

4 (8m 53s):
Are

3 (8m 53s):
People

0 (8m 53s):
In Vermont talking about climate change or is this viewed as, you know, just an isolated natural Disaster?

3 (9m 1s):
No, I think people are talking about climate change. My colleagues at Vermont Public have have been reporting on that a lot, talking to climatologists that have been looking at, well, what's the pattern with these storms? And, you know, when we get heavy rains, why do they linger? And is that gonna be the new pattern? I I, I think people are very concerned about it and it, like everybody in, probably in the country and in the world, just sort of trying to wrap their heads around, well, what can we do as individuals or as towns to, to make a difference? But I, I think people are looking at it because here in Vermont we've got four seasons that are all being impacted. you know, we're seeing winters for the ski season, which is so important here.

3 (9m 43s):
you know, snowmaking operations have had to shift to different warmer temperatures. We're, we're seeing the maple sugar industry kind of worry about, well, if, if it warms up earlier than we're used to, you know, that that starts the sap running. And then you've got farmers dealing with warmer temperatures, maybe drier conditions sometimes, or wetter conditions in the summer. So yeah, it's, it's something that I think we're dealing with a lot here in Vermont.

0 (10m 12s):
Nina Keck, she's a senior Reporter with Vermont Public, you should know today, explained heirs on Vermont public Monday through Thursday at 2:30 PM great local news stations coming up. Vermont did have some Disaster plans in place, as we just heard, but those plans were of this day and age why we might need to plan as if the future is now.

0 (10m 54s):
Support for today Explained comes from Washington Wise, it's an original podcast from Charles Schwab. Decisions made in Washington DC can affect the markets every day, but what policy changes should investors be watching Washington Wise is an original podcast for investors from Charles Schwab. The show covers the stories making news in Washington, and also how they might affect your finances and investments. You can listen today@schwab.com slash Washington wise. That's schwab.com/washington Wise Eyes

10 (11m 28s):
Support for the show today comes from Rocket Money and that is not where you put a bunch of your money on a rocket and watch it fly away. They actually are kind of the opposite of that. Between apps and streaming services and digital publications, the price of your subscriptions can add up really fast and it's really easy to lose track of where your money is going. You might be spending way more than you realize according to a 2022 survey. Apparently the average monthly cost of subscriptions was way over a hundred dollars more than what consumers thought they were paying. Enter Rocket Money, a personal finance app that finds and cancels your unwanted subscriptions.

10 (12m 9s):
It monitors your spending and helps you lower your bills all in one place. They want to help you stop throwing your money away. You can cancel unwanted subscriptions and manage your expenses the easy way by going to rocket money.com/explained. One more time. That's rocket money.com/explained.

0 (12m 41s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King Disaster Maven Juliette. Kayyem needs no introduction, but I will let her introduce herself. Anyway,

11 (12m 50s):
I'm the faculty chair of the Homeland Security Program at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, where I'm a professor in teach and crisis and Disaster management. 20 years in the field serving both in state government as a state homeland security advisor. And then my most recent federal job was as assistant secretary at DHS during the Obama administration and I think, and write and worry about disasters.

0 (13m 16s):
She also wrote the book, the Devil Never Sleeps, learning to Live in an Age of Disasters. And she says, we are in fact in one,

11 (13m 23s):
This is where we should stop acting. Surprised, right? I mean, just extreme climate events are happening in, in frequency and magnitude that we've never seen before. In 2023 already we have 12 confirmed weather climate Disaster events with losses exceeding 1 billion in the United States.

12 (13m 44s):
The scene across Northern California, trees, down damaging homes, businesses, and cars.

13 (13m 50s):
This is actually just outside of Abilene. It's near Sweetwater, Texas. There's a storm chaser out there that did manage to get video of a baseball to golf ball sized tail. You can see it there, it's bouncing. Wow.

14 (14m 2s):
The brutal cold came in with a fury at a city park. Hats and gloves were left for anyone who needed them

11 (14m 11s):
Since 1980 to to last year, we have about 8.1 events a year. Those are getting faster and more frequent. In 1980, I think we had $3 billion events and these are all adjusted numbers. So I, if I just look at, at the economic impact of what's happening, forget the cause and we're not even talking about human life. We are, we are facing these in a frequency and they are setting what, what I call the floor, right? In that word. Like, because these communities, whether they get hit next year or the following, or or five years from now, they are weaker because of the devastation. So, so it's the cumulative aspects of these disasters that is impacting the United States.

11 (14m 54s):
And we've, we've gotta get out of this mindset that, okay, we're gonna, you know, save lives clean up after the Disaster and then cross our fingers.

0 (15m 7s):
I have to imagine that our response to disasters has changed over time. But tell me first, how has it traditionally worked?

11 (15m 15s):
The framework was essentially established or it was, it was professionalized in the 1970s under a framework called the Incident Command System. You'll hear people in my field talk about I c s. It's a very formalized system and the benefit of it is, it's, it's hierarchical. You have an incident commander who's just deploying resources and getting logistics, moving and planning and, and the benefit of it is it's plug and play so you can expand it. So if I'm in Cambridge, Massachusetts and I need more bodies, you know, people from Boston can come over. So the general theory or the general plan for emergency management is we say that that locals respond states coordinate and the feds support.

11 (15m 58s):
So that basically means Disaster management makes or breaks at the local level. That is still true, right? It is, it is. What is your emergency management agency doing? What, what, what kind of plans do they have in place and are they able to deploy resources that had worked relatively well? You could expand things, but now we, we have no give. The reason why is because we don't have localized disasters like we used to. I mean, look at the fires in Canada. At some stage the United States cannot send any more firefighters to help in Canada. So where are they deploying from? South Africa and Australia?

15 (16m 35s):
The 57 specialists are from New South Wales. Most are from the Rural Fire Service. The States Minister for Emergency Services, DIB says tens of thousands of people have had to flee their homes in Canada. A scenario residents in New South Wales are all too familiar with,

11 (16m 50s):
And you're seeing it here just in the last week. Right? States generally could call on another state and say, could you send over X, Y, or Z? Cuz we need support, we need more bodies, we need more lights, we need more generators, whatever it is. Well, now you have two massive events in two states that generally would share resources under an emergency, you know, mutual aid compact. That's becoming harder. As well as we're seeing these multi-state disasters.

16 (17m 22s):
We've mutual aid requested from state to state, swift water rescue teams from North Carolina. We have two in that are engaged right now, and we have Swift water rescue team coming from Michigan and from Connecticut.

11 (17m 35s):
These are the, the stresses that we're seeing operationally that now is leading in fits and starts to changes in Disaster management. How we, how we deploy, how we professionalize it, but also how we think about disasters for the United States.

0 (17m 54s):
You gave me some specific examples there. How would you broadly describe how Disaster response is changing?

11 (18m 1s):
In the past, we divided the world into left a boom and ride a boom. And we're agnostic about the boom, right? So it could be the flood, the fire, the terrorist attack, the pandemic, but your, your boom is your disruption left. A boom is prevention and preparation. We're getting ready, we know it's coming or it could come. And then ride a boom is response, recovery and resiliency. That's like, that's the stuff you see, things are getting deployed, you know, communities are, are trying to rebound. That used to be viewed as linear one and done, right? Random and rare. That's the way we thought about, that's the way our entire structure was built. It's a circle. It's a circle now. And so you have to think about the investments you're making in preparation as really being about can this community recover fast enough because it's coming.

11 (18m 49s):
Again, we may not know where or when, but that's the kind of stress that's on that's facing the profession itself as it transforms from a profession that used to be, say your average emergency management officer was a former cop or firefighter. And that's not the communication skills, that's not the outreach skills, that's not the equity skills that we really need for Disaster management. But you're also starting to see it in the policies. Let's just be honest here. We, we've incentivized bad behavior through our Disaster management framework and that's, that's what needs to change. Everything else is just gonna be band-aids.

0 (19m 31s):
My, my mom Juliet lives in central New York in the Hudson Valley, and she, she lives in a house where the basement floods and in fact the basement did flood this time. She got about six inches of water, which is not terrible. We've seen worse. But once upon a time, I would've thought somebody will come and help my mom if she needs help. And nowadays what's really interesting is in 2023, I think somebody might look at my mom and say, why are you in that house? Why are you still there? If this has been going on for 30 years, do you think we are looking at the role that the individual plays in the boom? More and more.

11 (20m 4s):
Much, much more. Does your mom have flood insurance by the way? She

0 (20m 8s):
Does.

11 (20m 8s):
Yep. Oh good. Okay. So as I just was making sure, this idea of of putting more pressure on communities to behave better is starting to take hold. And that's don don't mean that as a sort of hostile thing. I mean, it's both good and bad. So on the tactical level, let's say a boom happens, we're not gonna leave your mom in her house, but if there's evacuation orders and those evacuation orders are not ab abided by, by some percentage of the community, sometimes it's just ideology, sometimes it's pets. In the last 10 years, I mean, we've seen some tough love from mayors and others simply saying to people,

17 (20m 49s):
All the advice we can give is get out, get out. Now. You still have time to leave those that are gonna stay. It's unfortunate that they should make some type of preparation to, to mark their arm with a, with a sharpie pin, put their social security number on it and their name. We've got first responders available, but once it gets bad, we're not gonna put their lives in jeopardy and they will not get help

11 (21m 15s):
To the bigger issue about, you know, do people stay or go. We have set up a Disaster management system that incentivizes bad behavior. It pays people to rebuild where they are. It it gives them individual assistance as if they alone were impacted. We, we have major events and then, you know, you know, powerful senators can just get lots of money and simply get people cash.

18 (21m 45s):
Senator, you wrote a letter Friday to the Senate Appropriations Committee asking for Disaster relief dollars for desperately needed resources to rebuild Florida communities after Hurricane Sandy hit Northeastern states in 2012, you voted no.

11 (21m 60s):
How is that strategic thinking? It's just not, but we've put in a system in which, you know, the boom happens, we respond, we save lives. That's a priority. You try to minimize property harms and then everyone goes after Disaster relief as if it's one and done. And the thinking now has, and the insurance companies are forcing us to think about it, is how do we use that money after a Disaster to make this community better? Hmm. I wanna say there are some changes. They're really piecemeal, but they are good. There's been changes in, in everything from the Inflation Act that allows for more money to be spent to, to mitigation, to even the farm Bill has provisions because, you know, we don't need to call it climate change.

11 (22m 45s):
Some communities and, and ideologies don't want it to be called climate change. Who cares? Get money out to farmers who are seeing flooding and help them mitigate their harms. There's been changes to Disaster relief that if a community gets, uses their money for mitigation at the next Disaster, the feds will actually give more rather than less. In other words, you're sort of incentivizing mitigation. And the gamble is these communities will suffer less if they put more into resiliency and, and fortifying structures and getting people out of certain communities. But these are being done piecemeal or they're being driven by insurance or the market.

11 (23m 27s):
That's no way to think about it given the numbers and the magnitude of what our communities are facing.

0 (23m 34s):
And so to that end, if you were put in charge, you could make whatever change you wanted. Where do you think you'd begin? What would be your first move?

11 (23m 44s):
You know, in my dreams, I would repeal a piece of legislation called the Stafford Act,

19 (23m 50s):
Pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, or the Stafford Act, FEMA provides public assistance grants to state, tribal, and local governments to assist in their recovery efforts. After a Disaster strikes,

11 (24m 7s):
Basically its general theory is a Disaster happens to a community, that poor community, we feel bad for them, could have been us, right? So let's just pay them money, distribute individual assistance, distribute public assistance, distribute money to the localities and states and, and write a check and let's get them back to normal. Okay, so that worked, but now it doesn't work, right? And so what I would do is, is rethink how we're paying for the last Disaster to prepare us for this Disaster condition. That money right. Dear community, dear individual homeowner, we're not doing this anymore.

11 (24m 47s):
We don't care your politics, we don't care anything. Basically, you can have a check if you do X, y, and z and whate, whatever those conditions are. And we, we know what they are. If you live in a fire area, we know what kind of roof you have to build. If you live by the water, we know what kind of fortification you need. And these are the kinds of efforts at each home level, at each community level that will change the incentive structure. We have to incentivize, essentially resiliency. We don't do that now because we still are in a mind frame of these disasters are random and fluke ish, and we're just gonna brace ourselves until the next one.

0 (25m 32s):
Today's episode was produced by Vermont Bureau Chief John Ehrens and Miles Bryan. It was edited by Matthew Collette. Laura Bullard is our senior fact checker, and Amanda Lewellyn was our junior fact checker. Today our engineer is Michael Rayfield. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.