1 (4s):
It's today explained AB Noelle King. It has been a rollercoaster week wait. This is a show about Disney. It has been a rock and rollercoaster starring Aerosmith, seven Dwarfs Mind Train Week for the Walt Disney Company. Successes, they

2 (21s):
Have a very big release in the Black Panther sequel Wakanda Forever.

3 (25s):
I have many names my people call me, but my is called me No more

1 (33s):
Failures that

2 (34s):
Their latest animation film, strange World was a flop.

4 (37s):
You know, this world, this world we live in today is a pretty strange world too.

1 (42s):
All of this as Disney's board, ousts a less than beloved ceo, Bob Chek, and brings back the Golden Boy former CEO, Bob Iger, all of the drama of a Disney movie i l coming up.

0 (1m 1s):
Okay, here I come. We're working for a better tomorrow. Today explained,

2 (1m 13s):
Oh my gosh, this news was so shocking and it was such a guarded secret.

1 (1m 18s):
Kim Masters is editor at large for the Hollywood reporter and host of the business from kcrw.

2 (1m 24s):
My colleague, my friend Matt be who's on my show with me, the business he saw someone had posted, another journalist had posted the Disney Press release and said, I think you've been hacked with, because he thought it wasn't real. So it was, it was a major stunner.

1 (1m 44s):
And what did the new say exactly? What was Disney announcing

2 (1m 47s):
That Bob Chek, who had been the CEO since I guess February, 2020, had been ousted. And Bob Iger, who had been the chairman and CEO of Disney for many years was returning. He had been away for most of the year and had said repeatedly that he was never going back to Disney. And then he went back to Disney. Bob Iger, you know, he's one of the most respected executives in in general business anywhere. So he's a huge towering figure. You wouldn't envy anybody who had to follow him in that job At Disney.

5 (2m 25s):
As Disney's sixth ceo, Iger oversaw tremendous growth,

0 (2m 30s):
New toys,

5 (2m 31s):
Acquiring Pixar, Marvel, and Lucas Film, expanding the Disney universe to include Star Wars.

2 (2m 46s):
Supposedly the board had, they had issued a statement of backing Bob Chopik a few months ago in June,

6 (2m 52s):
Breaking news from Disney, the company's board voting to extend CEO Bob Chopik, a contract for three more years in a statement. Disney chair Susan Arnold saying that Disney was dealt a tough hand by the pandemic. Yet with Bob at the helm, our businesses from parks to streaming not only weathered the storm, but emerged in a position of strength.

2 (3m 13s):
It was a complete 180. Obviously Disney is one of the most high profile entertainment companies, probably the most and beloved, and people have strong emotions about it. So it just was a, as I said, a stunner

1 (3m 31s):
Who was responsible for this move. You mentioned Disney's board. Did they make the call? Ultimately,

2 (3m 36s):
They're the only ones who could make that call and they did make that call. The statement of confidence in Bob Chopik we are now told was not unanimous. And there had been conflict on the board as far back as June as to whether to keep him around. He had steered the company into a number of public controversies that were not helpful. There were massive losses going on. This is a very challenged time in the entertainment business. Generally, the legacy companies are seeing their longstanding sources of income. Their, their, their reliable income from their cable channels or their broadcast channels or these different ways of distributing film and tv. Those are going away as streaming has become increasingly popular.

2 (4m 20s):
So all of the entertainment giants are facing big challenges. And so Bob Chopik had seemed to be the wrong man at the wrong time for that. And the board, ultimately they're the ones who finally said, enough is enough. What

1 (4m 36s):
Were the things that Bob Chopik did that would've made Disney's board say, no, this is not about the industry. This is about what this man has done. He's gotta

2 (4m 45s):
Go. There were several conflicts that arose.

8 (4m 48s):
Scarlet Johansen, the star of the Marble superhero film. Black Widow is suing the Walt Disney Company over its simultaneous release of the movie in cinemas and on its streaming service,

1 (4m 58s):
Which

2 (4m 59s):
Led to a conflict with caa, which is the most powerful agency with many star clients that nobody wants to cross.

7 (5m 7s):
Johansen's salary was based largely on box office performance of the Marvel films that regularly make $1 billion in global ticket sales. Each insiders say This cost Scarlet Johansen 15 million. And even

2 (5m 20s):
That's sort of thing everybody in the town felt right away would not have happened under Bob Iger. I mean, I should say Bob Chopik had spent many years at Disney, but he had been in theme parks and consumer products and not as a creative executive who understands this very delicate nuance of how to navigate Hollywood. It's, it's something that is very, very difficult. This is not a business like a widget making business. You have to assemble talent, you have to inspire talent and talent can be very tricky to handle. So the Bob Chopik got into this, this very public spat and again, right away people who were like veterans in this town said this would never have happened if Bob Iger had been in charge.

2 (6m 5s):
He would've found a way to handle this dispute. And then of course infamously there was the Florida, don't say gay, so-called, don't say gay law.

9 (6m 16s):
Disney employees plan to put their discontent on full display planning to walk out in protest of Florida's, don't say gay bill or so, it's called Disney ceo. Bob Pac initially refused to release an official statement on the bill. Many cast members have been doing mini walkouts every day during their breaks.

2 (6m 33s):
You know, it was no secret in the town here that Bob Iger did not think much of what Bob Shaik was doing at this company. And he actually tweeted his opposition to this Florida law. He said he supported President Biden's position.

10 (6m 48s):
It's about right and wrong. So I happen to feel, and I tweeted an opinion about the don't say gay bill in Florida. To me it wasn't politics, it was what is right and what is wrong. And that just seemed wrong.

2 (7m 1s):
Which to me, I knew right away that was gonna put Bob Chopik on the spot because Bob Chopik, first of all is believed to be a far more conservative politically person than, than Bob Iger. Again, something that doesn't play that well in Hollywood, cuz it's mostly a progressive community. Once Bob Iger tweeted his opposition, of course the spotlight swiveled, I swiveled, I called Bob Sheik's communications guy and I was initially told he is not, we don't take positions and we're not gonna take a position. Now, when that got out into the broader world and the company, which is a lot of gay employees or LGBTQ employees and a lot of progressive employees, the morale plummeted like a stone man,

11 (7m 48s):
I know I got bills to pay, but working for this company has been so, has made me so distraught and I hate, I hate having moral quandaries about how I feed myself and how I support my loved

2 (8m 3s):
Ones. Bob Chopik had to do a complete flip flop on that and take a position, which, you know, then incensed Ron DeSantis the governor of Florida, who attacked Disney very publicly.

12 (8m 15s):
If this was such an affront, why weren't they speaking up at the outset? And then for them to say they're gonna actively work to repeal substantive protections for parents as a company that is supposedly marketing its services to parents with young children. I think they crossed the line.

2 (8m 33s):
And then this last earnings call was a mess because he's apparently a very chipper and, and talking about attractions that were upcoming at the parks or whatever, and then like announces, oh by the way, we lost over a billion dollars on our streaming service in the last quarter and missed our targets.

13 (8m 54s):
The losses here were just mind boggling. I mean, when you're going over the quarter, you, it's stunning. He's gotta be fired.

2 (9m 2s):
And a few days later sent out a note with apparently people being very ill prepared that at the company saying hiring freeze layoffs. It became a uncomfortable on so many levels that the chief financial officer was not comfortable with that call. I mean, her reputation was also involved. So one thing and another led, you know, piled up. It just was piled up of, of mishandled things and you know, a crisis of losing money and a, in a dramatic way,

14 (9m 33s):
Disney, the company plummeting another 13% missing on key numbers across the board after reporting earnings last night as direct to streaming losses accelerated to a whopping 1.5 billion this quarter compared to 1.1 billion in q3.

2 (9m 50s):
I don't know that Bob Iger has a clear plan. He's just been in a town hall and said there will be some hiring freeze and, and if clearly there are gonna be some cuts, but Bob Iger can do things that Bob Chopik could not.

1 (10m 4s):
Wasn't Bob Chopik himself the man that Bob Iger picked to succeed him?

2 (10m 10s):
Yes and no. I mean it's, it's very common for people to say he's the handpicked successor. And I always roll my eyes a little when I see that the board, as they should have, they leaned on Bob Iger. Bob Iger had postponed his retirement multiple times. He's now 71 years old, very fit, but he's 71. I used

15 (10m 29s):
To say I failed retirement.

2 (10m 30s):
He kept saying, I'm gonna retire. No I'm not. I'm gonna retire. No I'm not.

15 (10m 35s):
So come on, when will you be ready to step down? I don't know, five, five years? 10. 10. Seriously.

2 (10m 44s):
And meanwhile, people who were seen as this possible successor, in one case Tom Stags, it seemed that he was actually pretty much designated the successor and then seen those people get ejected from the company. That happened on multiple occasions, but the likely successor suddenly no longer around possibly because Bob Iger wanted to postpone his retirement again. So as Bob Iger approached 70, as I understand it from my sources, the board was saying, you gotta do something about this. And when they pushed this last time, I think in a somewhat petulant way, I think Iger said, okay, fine, have this guy who really was kind of the only possible option left, but not a great option as I think Bob Iger well knew.

2 (11m 32s):
So that's how I see it. It's not really hand picking as so much defaulting to,

1 (11m 38s):
I don't wanna ask you to speculate too much, but do you think that Bob Iger knew this wasn't gonna work

2 (11m 43s):
Out? Oh, not only did he, I think believe it wouldn't work out well, I don't wanna be quite that harsh. I think he believed it was not likely to work out, I'll put it that way. But he had made it clear that he did not think much of what Bob Chopik was doing. And by the way, you know, long time hardcore Disney fans really disliked Bob Chopik.

16 (12m 5s):
Then I saw walking over from the small World gate, what I am 99% sure was Bob Chopik. I am so surprised that that man would step foot in Disneyland when he knows that guests here do not like him and call him things like Bob Paycheck and Bob Cheaps

2 (12m 17s):
Kate, they thought he was doing what he does do, which is to cut costs and raise prices. Wow,

17 (12m 24s):
That's crazy. It's almost like when you charge more for less, people aren't as excited to do it.

2 (12m 32s):
They felt like he was gouging, they felt like the things that the parks weren't as well maintained as they should be. So he, he was broadly unpopular. And there's no other company in entertainment where there's that kind of connection between the fans and the company and the ceo. I mean, I don't know that anybody out there knows who this CEO of Paramount is or you know, on this, but people really knew Bob Iger and Disney fans knew Bob Chopik. So it, yeah, he was not, he was not winning hearts and minds.

18 (13m 3s):
So being a shareholder of Disney in a public company, they're allowing me to vote on the board of directors. Naturally, the board recommends Bob Chopik for the board of directors, even more naturally, I recommend against Hi Bob,

2 (13m 16s):
Now that I grew is back. What? What do you expect? Good question. I mean, he has said that this came together very quickly, that he was sort of sitting around telling people he was never coming back to Disney. And then he got a call just a few days before announcing that he was coming back to Disney. Does he have a plan? I raised the question myself. You know, have you thought this through? Have you thought about how you will approach the streaming losses? You know, meanwhile I should mention, wall Street has turned on those subscriber numbers as a metric. They're no longer so impressed by the big numbers. They now wanna see somebody making some money. And none of the big companies, except Netflix, is managing to make money and even Netflix. It's just such a challenging business because you constantly have to have fresh, original content that works, that draws people to your streaming service.

2 (14m 4s):
You know, if you're not watching anything on Netflix for a while, you may decide to drop the service and churn out. Or same thing for Disney plus, they have to keep coming up with the fresh thing that requires just throwing a ton of spaghetti at the wall. Expensive, expensive spaghetti, and hoping that some of it sticks. As I said, it's not a widget business, it's a business of hitting a zeitgeist and making that thing that people might not have thought they wanted to see. But do wanna see and talk about,

19 (14m 45s):
Hey, you've got all kinds of people yelling at you about sales Black Friday and Cyber Week these days. So I'll keep this short. Get the lowest prices of the season on an annual subscription to New York Magazine. Now through November 30th, prices start at $8 for a monthly digital subscription and top out at $45 for a year of print and digital access. Give yourself the gift of Vulture, the Cut, Intelligencer, and all your favorite New York magazine brands for up to 75% off until the end of the month. Go to ny mag.com/holiday by November 30th and you'll get the best deal of the year.

20 (15m 28s):
You to now you're an accent figure. You are a child play thing.

21 (15m 38s):
You are a sad, strange little man. And you have my pity.

1 (15m 42s):
It's today explained Time Nole King. The phenomenon of a CEO coming back to a company is not uncommon. Chris Bingham has spent time studying it.

22 (15m 51s):
I am a professor of strategy and entrepreneurship at UNCs Keenan Flagler Business School. And I study innovation and growth

1 (15m 59s):
Along with some colleagues. Chris looked into what happens to a company when a CEO is brought back.

22 (16m 4s):
There are actually lots of examples of boomerang CEOs. Most famously, as it neared collapse, Steve Jobs returned to Apple to retake the reins of the company he had created.

23 (16m 14s):
I started the company with Steve Wozniak in my parents' garage, you know, 22 years ago. And so there's a definite place in my heart for this. I'm drawing a salary of I think a dollar per year. I very much wanna see Apple get turned around and I think it's gonna,

22 (16m 30s):
And through a series of brilliant changes in innovations, jobs helped refocus and rebuild Apple, which ultimately became one of the largest and most powerful companies in the world. But jobs not alone. Many other large and high profile organizations have turned to former CEOs, often called boomerangs, as I mentioned, in times of need. These include Dell, Enron, Google, Twitter, Snapchat, best Buy, Starbucks. Yes, the list continues. Yahoo DuPont, Proctor and Gamble, JC Penney, Reddit, Bloomberg Urban Outfitters, and Charles Schwab. All these organizations had former CEO's return to leave their organizations.

1 (17m 11s):
When a company brings a CEO back, Chris, what's usually the reason or the reason they give the public?

22 (17m 17s):
They'll often turn to former CEOs in times of crisis. This usually means that the S have gotten into trouble and either resigned or been fired abruptly. But one of the best arguments for bringing back former CEOs is that they're, they're just frankly, a known quantity, an attribute, often important to employees and investors looking for reassurance that a company can quickly get back on on track. And this maybe leads to a different reason, and that is companies elect to bring back CEOs when they want a leader who can hit the ground running, say they've been down the learning curve, they know what they're doing, they know the landscape pretty well.

1 (17m 52s):
Give me an example of when this has worked. Well,

22 (17m 55s):
Howard Schultz returned to Starbucks after an eight year hiatus when the company's stock price was really suffering.

24 (18m 3s):
What had happened was that we were doing everything humanly possible to feed the beast. And we are measuring sales per hour, transactions per hour, and doing everything we can for growth. And there's nothing wrong with that if it's balanced with making sure that the customer is at the center of everything you do. And that wasn't the case.

22 (18m 21s):
The successors had made a series of changes such as introducing automatic espresso machines and more sterile store designs that frankly degraded the higher touch, higher class Starbucks experience. And by refocusing on the company's core principles that had originally made the premium brand successful, Schultz was able to help customers and employees fall back in love with Starbucks ultimately leading at share price to more than triple during his second tenure. He's actually just more recently come back again for a third. He came back in April and, and the stock seems to be doing okay. So I think that's a, that's a good example.

1 (18m 59s):
And give me an example of when it did not work so well.

22 (19m 2s):
Well, I think there, there are a number of examples when it, it didn't go, go well. I think Ag Laugh returned as CEO of Proctor and Gamble after this company suffered under its successor with the investors hoping for a Steve Jobs like sql. But unfortunately, this sequel never occurred. P and g experienced lackluster performance under laughs, second tenure. And the company stock price dramatically underperform compared with competitors as the company lost market share. And of course, you can't forget, Ken Le, who second to Enron included one of the most surprising and devastating failures in corporate history.

25 (19m 43s):
Certainly we're surprised, I think probably more appropriately to say we're shocked. Certainly this was not the outcome we expected.

1 (19m 52s):
You mentioned some successes and some failures. What usually happens? Are there more successes or more failures?

22 (19m 59s):
Our analysis suggests that these success stories like the jobs are often the exception rather than the norm. That actually the differences in our data were, were quite striking. Boomerang CEOs indeed performed significantly worse than other types of CEOs. Yeah, actually on average what we found is the annual stock performance of companies led by Boomerang CEOs was more than 10% lower than their first stint counterparts. And, and these results actually held true even when we compared them with other non boomerang CEOs who were hired in times of crisis. So yeah, overall Noel Boomerangs seemed to hurt rather than help.

1 (20m 42s):
Why were you guys able to figure it out?

22 (20m 44s):
Well, we have a couple of thoughts. You know, one is that many boomerang CEOs barely recognize the company upon returning. And that's often because business conditions differ dramatically from those of their first stint as ceo. Between the times when they leave and return changes inevitably occur in consumer preferences, competitors, suppliers, demographics, or even the broader economy. And these changes are especially pronounced and problematic and dynamic and fast changing industries in which boomerang CEOs perform much worse per our data, as the value of the boomerang CEOs accumulated experience depreciates much more quickly.

22 (21m 31s):
Our evidence suggests that this is, this is a really hard thing. Most CEOs think they can do it coming back, but the landscape has just fundamentally changed.

1 (21m 37s):
So what do you think about Bob Iger coming back to Disney? Do you have any predictions?

22 (21m 41s):
Well, I wish I could look into my crystal ball and, and make some predictions. I think actually there's there's reason for hope on this one. And the reasons are, one, Bob is not a founder. We found that boomerangs who are founders actually perform significantly worse. I mean, again, they have a very significant mental model of how they want the business to, to proceed. And so it's harder to get rid of those prior views of how the organization should move forward. So he is not a founder. Two, he hasn't been gone that long. And then perhaps third is he seems to have a plan for how to move forward.

22 (22m 21s):
And so again, for those three reasons, I I, I'm hoping, I'm hoping Disney has some some positive news ahead for them.

1 (22m 32s):
What do you think will happen to Bob Jeck once a CEO has been let go by a board in a very, very public fashion, what generally happens to that ceo?

22 (22m 41s):
They look for a way to regain their status and credibility and legitimacy. So look for Bob to not sit quietly on the sidelines, but to help the markets know that that was a mistake by Disney.

1 (23m 19s):
Today's show was produced by Hot Modi and edited by Matthew Colette, who is on his way to vacation in a Disney park. It was engineered by a theme Shapiro, it was fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.