1 (0s):
Support from the show today comes from made to fail crowded elections in Wisconsin during a pandemic police brutality in Minnesota a broken unemployment system in Florida. All these things didn't have to happen and made to fail connects the dots between government failures and pulls back the curtain on the policies that time and again have failed the people they were supposed to protect in the end. They weren't accidents. They were by Design and you can get the full story on made to fail wherever you listen to your podcasts. Google's free tools are designed to help millions of businesses around the country as they adapt to a new way of working. And right. Now these businesses could use our help support the places near You by booking an appointment buying a gift card writing a review more ordering takeout all With a Little Help from Google.

1 (55s):
It's today explained. I'm Sean Rama's firm. We've done plenty of shows on how covid has derailed our lives from working remotely to education to the impacts on all aspects of the economy rents Sports the movies. Some of these shows have had elements of Hope and them but none of them have had much magic today. We're going to fix that with the story of one guy in Los Angeles who took his pandemic lemons and made lemonade so good. That people think he might have figured out a way to save an entire industry. His name is Helder Damaris. Yes. So my line of work is very different than what people imagine when they think about a magician because I'm Mick stories with magic the hardest part of a show is putting it up for me, you know, like it's always like where you have to find all those Leave the Pieces of the puzzle to put everything together.

1 (1m 51s):
And make it work and when it's done when it's finalized the performance side of it is when I have most of the fun of it.

2 (2m 4s):
Tell me how you put up your later show Helder.

1 (2m 6s):
So I last

2 (2m 7s):
year 2019. I did the I did the show at the Geffen

1 (2m 12s):
Playhouse and the goal of 2020 was

2 (2m 15s):
actually to go with that show to New York. So now I'm liking Okay, let's go to New York and have some more fun and all of the sudden depend Dynamic take it away from me. How did that feel not not good. There was a

1 (2m 32s):
week during this period that I was like

2 (2m 35s):
really down and that was like I saw the news like almost 24 hours a day.

1 (2m 40s):
I am not the type of person that

2 (2m 42s):
stays too long on on disappointment mode. So I was just like, okay, you know, like now I

1 (2m 49s):
need to

2 (2m 49s):
understand what these this year is gonna be

1 (2m 52s):
for me. What did you come up with? I have this

2 (2m 55s):
idea for years of mailing things to people so that people could experience magic in their own hands

1 (3m 4s):
and anyone ever tried that before Magic by mail.

2 (3m 8s):
I'm gonna probably say you're wrong number, but if I hundred years ago or

1 (3m 12s):
almost a hundred years ago, there were a couple of experiments done by different people where people's mail. An object like imagine a deck of cards to

2 (3m 24s):
someone's houses. They would ask them to do a couple of things with that object. They do this. They would mail it back

1 (3m 32s):
to the magician and then the magician would

2 (3m 34s):
send the letter saying the card you selected was the 7 of

1 (3m 37s):
Spades, huh?

2 (3m 40s):
And I've been developing things that fit that world long before I even had a notion that the pandemic could shut everything. Nothing down, you know like so it was one of those moments where all of the sudden when I'm one week into quarantine. I was like, oh, yeah, like this is the perfect moment to use that idea that I've been thinking for years.

1 (4m 10s):
I know you're a secretive try but like can you reveal what the idea is don't be idea is very simple, like imagine that now instead of me doing the magic for you and you see me on screen. I am guiding you to do magic in your own hands with the objects you receive so the magic literally happens in your own hands, but you and I are on Zoom call right now. So when you approach the Geffen Playhouse in lat Angels with this idea of magic via Zoom where you male people materials where they like isn't this just like a video conference version of a YouTube magic instructional video. How's it different?

1 (4m 50s):
You don't learn how to do magic in my show you watch Magic and the witness magic and so the magic happens in your hands, but you have no idea how that magic happens in your hands, you know, like that's that's a different that's a different level. So what do you send people? Well, I that's I can tell because it's part of the charm is that they receive a box that they only open at Showtime so they never know what the box as until we start to show. Okay got it. So so the materials are the mystery and you've sort of pre-designed the magic but it feels complicated there like multiple parties involved and sort of lots of different magic shows happening at once.

1 (5m 32s):
That means there's lots of variables right like lots could go wrong. Oh, yeah. I've I've done I've done things like that in the past but always like on a one-to-one basis I've done. Amazing things like that where even objects vanish from people's hands as we both lie, you know like but there is a big difference between doing that to one person or being able to convey that to an audience because unfortunately with magic there is a lot of the suspicion where people think that someone might be on it, you know, like I never used to just I never have plans in my shows.

1 (6m 15s):
One that is in my show seeing a performance is a spectator and they are witnessing the same magic. Everyone is witness. And even when it happens to them, what did you call your show? So the show the show is called the present we opened it on May 7th is still running and it closes this Saturday where we going to do this big blowout performance for more than 6,000 people at the same time. So, it's gonna how do you do that? Are you male? Being six thousand packages we are. Well, there are different tiers. So there are people that are just going to be watching a show some people that will have only an envelope. So it's just a partial part of the interaction and then there are 25 guests that are going to be with me unzoom with the the full box interacting with me as as we've done more than 250 shows at this point.

1 (7m 10s):
So it's it's really cool and it's going to be like a big closing party. It sounds like it sounds like it was very successful Elder. Is that correct? It was extremely successful. It was a great a great. You know what we can we can measure it in many ways. How many people saw it how many people engage with that how many emails we got after the show, you know, like we can measure it in so many ways. It was so special. But the part that I liked the most was that during this crazy time in our lives. I could be able with what I do. Bring some peace some closure some happiness to people in their houses and for me, that's how I measure it is like the smiles that it's a little cliche.

1 (7m 56s):
I know but it's like it's literally at the end of the day what matters the most is how you see people leaving the zoom call after the show, you know, like that's what at the end of the day. I measure the success of the show in and I'm very happy to say that out loud. I would put a percentage of 99% of people come out of the show like with a huge smile some people, you know that they have a cathartic moment sometimes where they cry, you know, like we've had well like yeah, it's crazy. It's insane, but I think the fact that people are more vulnerable at this point emotionally and all of the sudden they are in front of a computer, but they feel they are connecting with other people.

1 (8m 44s):
You know, that's where I think the beauty of the show lies on the magic is one of the vehicles of achieving that the storytelling it's another one but at the end of the show the fact that we can create this feeling that we've all been together. That's where for me the real magic of the show lies in it sounds like in this era where so many theaters are shut down. You not only found a way to still connect with people unzoom a medium that people are coming to resent because so much of their lives are One Zoom, but you also found a way to help a theater make money during the pandemic. Yeah, you know, like I like to think that there was a diesel a Times article that said this is how you save theater, you know like and it was like this big headline about the show, but I don't like to feel very presumptuous that we've saved theater or we've done theater, but I think the fact that we kept going it's a big inspiration not only for other these and other people and other theaters that when when faced on a pro infant in front of a prom you you need to kind of overcome it you need to find Solutions you need to to keep going, you know, like and I think the willingness to do something like that is what is always going to save theater.

1 (10m 12s):
Well Elder congratulations on the show and on all Success, and I'm like Brad Pitt

2 (10m 17s):
in seven levels of wanting to know what's in the box.

1 (10m 20s):
So I guess I'll see you Saturday for the finale.

2 (10m 24s):
See you Saturday. Thank you so much. Helder Damaris is

1 (10m 30s):
magic show is called the present and if you're curious to see what all the fuss is about its Grand

2 (10m 35s):
Finale is open to anyone

1 (10m 37s):
anywhere the Saturday. You can find more information at the Geffen Playhouse is website. It is Geffen Playhouse dot-org. After a quick break, whether the rest of the theater world can take anything away from this one Innovative magic show. It's the explained.

2 (11m 1s):
This episode of today explained is brought to you by a

1 (11m 3s):
vast a global leader in cybersecurity trusted by over 435 million users to keep them safe online since the beginning of 2020. We've seen an increase of 20% in ransomware and scams like fishing and with so much of our Lives being lived through our devices right now. It's more important than ever to keep our digital selves safe Avast premium security protects against the biggest online threats like viruses spoofed websites and ransomware.

2 (11m 30s):
Last offer security that's tailored to fit your

1 (11m 32s):
needs with options to protect multiple devices including smartphones to keep you and your family safe with a vast. You can feel safer private and more confident online to do what you want to do in your connected life. Don't worry about viruses phishing attacks ransomware hacking attempts or cyber crime because Avast has your back learn more about Avast privacy security and performance products at a

2 (11m 58s):
vast.com.

1 (12m 3s):
Support for the show today comes from the New Yorker not like a podcast from The New Yorker not some radio show from the New Yorker like just the New Yorker in print and online your friendly neighborhood New Yorker known for its commitment to truth and accuracy quality writing and some of the best reporting and storytelling in the world. I mean, I personally go the New Yorker for a number of things including the greatest music profiles I've ever read of people like Trent Reznor. Fiona Apple, I can't think of another place to get 10,000 words on Fiona Apple at the level the New Yorker delivers now and has quite frankly for decades. I don't have to tell you about the New York or what I do need to tell you.

1 (12m 44s):
Is that for a limited time? You can get 12 weeks of the New Yorker for just $6 Bob. That's a savings of 50% plus listeners of the day explain will receive an exclusive tote bag for absolutely free. Just go to New Yorker.com / explain that's any day. W-why o r ke are.com explain to get 12 weeks of the New Yorker for just $6 and a free tote bag New Yorker.com. Explain. Okay, we heard about one very popular magic show.

1 (13m 24s):
But to get a sense of what the rest of the American theatrical world is up to we turn to someone who has experience with many sides of it. Okay. My name is David

2 (13m 33s):
Cody and I'm new

1 (13m 34s):
york-based theater critic playwright and Opera librettist.

2 (13m 39s):
So you're not just a critic but someone who himself make theater. Yes. I'm that foolish. What's one of your operas will play? Some of it while we talk about why the theater is very important. I have one Optical three-way, which is basically three one-act operas about power desire identity. Let's talk about how live

1 (14m 2s):
theater is working right now or not working what's happening to theater in the United States?

2 (14m 8s):
Well, you know theater is really, you know, it's in a coma the body is still alive, but there's not a lot happening. I mean some ins have had to furlough employees thousands and thousands of people actors writers directors designers stagehands. There's nothing running on Broadway or Off Broadway or off off its like the theaters are empty people. I just talked to held her about the present which brought in a bunch of revenue for the Geffen

1 (14m 42s):
but what other sorts of coping mechanisms have worked out for theaters. Well, I mean with the understanding the none of this stuff is actually a revenue generator or sustainable as a long-term plan theaters have put on they put on

2 (14m 58s):
readings. Hi, you know, there is a company called play per view which you can do a donation of 15 bucks and see a reading with with

1 (15m 8s):
actors

2 (15m 13s):
that he

1 (15m 13s):
and I am far which is a charity. Researching AIDS put on a zoom

2 (15m 19s):
presentation scenes from angels in America the great work Begins the messenger has arrived right? I think I saw something like that on YouTube to and my former

1 (15m 32s):
colleagues at WNYC did a radio version of Shakespeare in the park though. I guess that was free. I have been studying how I may compare.

2 (15m 42s):
This prison where I live unto the

1 (15m 44s):
world absolutely. Yeah, the public theater co-produced that thoughts tending to ambition. They do plot unlikely wonders. Those are one off so they're not like really like it's not easy for theaters to transition into media companies overnight unlikely wonders. I mean the magic show what's fascinating about the magic show is that it's essentially an off-off-broadway show meaning it's like playing to like what 25 or 30 people at a time? Yeah. I mean if you did that in a theater That's off off Broadway, which is like a hole in the wall theater, but he's able to do it like however many times a week and they charge tickets and it's been running for you know, x amount of months and it's super cheap to produce so they make money and in that way it's sort of exceptional because since it's a one-man show, it doesn't really necessitate all the testing and safety precautions that putting on an actual Stage production would huh right now, it's a guy in a room at a table with some cards.

1 (16m 39s):
So what does it actually look like? Like when Real Theaters try to come back with real Productions, is it like what we're currently seeing with the movies where the theaters are kind of playing it by ear, but promising, you know limited seating and and more safety precautions. I think right now it's really all or nothing as far as lot of Broadway shows because until you can get like eight hundred two 1800 people in a room eight times a week, you know to see a show. It's just not going to be profitable to open up a Broadway show again. Do we know if theater can come back from this? I mean, it's one thing for Hollywood Studios to sort of take huge losses this year and plan for the future and make Revenue off of their existing titles and movies that are streaming in every which place but theaters just not making money right now, right how many Broadway companies are going to fold or even more?

1 (17m 36s):
So theaters all across the country that don't even have the Allure of Broadway. Well first of all,

2 (17m 42s):
They're like 41 Broadway

1 (17m 43s):
theaters and they're all like owned by these corporations like the Schubert's of the Nederlander Czar the big the mega landlords of Broadway. So they only buildings and of course they get subsidies from the state and you know the city until we start hearing about organizations like the public theater or Second Stage Theater, you know, all the the sort of the middle tier of theaters in New York until we hear about them closing, you know, the theaters hibernating, but it's not dying so it's really off off. Which is most most vulnerable small theaters that you know that are just sort of hopefully have arrangements with their landlords not to be evicted. But it's the questions like what are they going to put on is the audience can come back and the audience is mostly older and white.

1 (18m 25s):
So what kind of theater they going to put are they going to put on more diverse stuff. Are they going to attract a younger more diverse audience? Because that's something that I think everybody wants to happen. Have you seen anything like that? Has there been some silver lining to theaters going dark this year? Well, I mean in the

2 (18m 42s):
Little of

1 (18m 42s):
this whole pandemic there was a big sort of Manifesto that was published online by a group called we see you white American Theater. So I think what that letter does is it challenges Broadway, which is a white institution calling out American Theater. It is a why it's called the great wife way not just for jokes, but for its history of being dominated by white artist those people who are at the top who are the house donors who are the main producers what players get produced and how many actors get hired? Year in our Union heads, they're all white. So this document was calling for

2 (19m 16s):
everybody including media companies in terms of who

1 (19m 18s):
they hire for critics and reporters to Boards of theaters to who they produce in the seasons asking them to be more demanding that they be more balanced. We demand them to see the truth and also make room for us at the top but I think that everybody's paying attention and wins theater does reopen if it's just business as usual than people are going to freak out because it's things do have to change. If there's not a new generation of theatregoers, that's more diverse and younger than the theater is definitely dying. Hmm. So this pandemic itself may not kill theater, but it's shed light on an issue that could eventually kill theater.

1 (20m 3s):
Yep. It showed the disease in the body for sure. Yeah, I imagine because you're not only a playwright but also a critic that your fellow playwright artists come to you sometimes for Hope for some light and all this. What do you tell them I tell them that theater has survived worse than this. It survived worse plagues worse Wars it survived Stalin it survived McCarthy. It survived Cats the musical it's a will survive

2 (20m 35s):
this. Well, I'm sorry to deliver the news to but we're gonna go out on Cass downtown

1 (20m 44s):
theater is just a

2 (20m 45s):
memory ha ha ha. If you find David Cody is a

1 (21m 16s):
theater critic and a playwright based in New York City. The cat's behind today explained include Halima Shaman al-saadi mu JT will read and no I'm happy. Felt who makes music to Big helps from bird Pinkerton Cecilia lay and Paul Mounds you this week big Beats from the mysterious brake master cylinder Golda Arthur is our supervising producer Liz. Kelly Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcasts and today explained as part of the VOX media podcast

2 (21m 44s):
Network.

1 (22m 9s):
The perfect weapon an HBO documentary film

2 (22m 12s):
directed by John Maggio explores the rise of cyber conflict as the primary way Nations now compete with and sabotage one another based on the best-selling book by New York Times National Security correspondent David E Sanger. The film draws on interviews with top military intelligence and political officials for a comprehensive thoroughly captivating view of the ominous impact cyber conflict has On The World At Large the perfect. Ben is now streaming on HBO Max. Google's free tools are designed to help support millions of businesses around the country as they

1 (22m 47s):
adapt to a new way of working with Google tools small businesses are staying connected to their customers by updating their business hours switching to curbside pickup activating online booking and more and if you want to support them, there are ways to help whether you're searching for

2 (23m 4s):
restaurants salons bookstores Jim's boutiques

1 (23m 7s):
or any other business near you show your support by ordering takeout, right? Review buying a gift card

2 (23m 14s):
or making a donation all With a Little Help from Google.