2 (6s):
So last week the 17 year old girl named for Rosa Aziz who lives in New Jersey posted on Tik-Tok a tutorial on how to get longer eyelashes.

1 (16s):
Hi guys. I'm going to teach you guys how to get long lashes. So the first thing you need to do is grab your lash curler to curl your lashes. Obviously,

2 (23s):
she starts, you know by grabbing her eyelash curler and curling her lashes and then she says,

1 (30s):
Then you're going to put them down and use your phone that you're using right now to search up. What's happening in China how they're getting concentration camps throwing innocent Muslims in their separating their families from each other kidnapping them murdering them raping them forcing them to eat pork forcing them to drink forcing them to convert different religions. If not, or else they're gonna of course get

2 (49s):
murdered then she tweeted that she had been suspended from Tick Tock for a month. It's just a black

1 (58s):
screen and it won't let me go on into that. It says due to multiple violations your account suspended so I can go on to it on my own

2 (1m 8s):
phone initially takes out didn't say why they had removed the video and that led to a lot of speculation that she must have offended the Chinese government and that she was essentially being censored by them. Even though she's an American citizen

1 (1m 26s):
it was After I posted about the week or so, I thought it was very suspicious that right when I speak about it on a Chinese app that it's taken down

2 (1m 35s):
the company responded a little while later saying that she had used another one of her accounts to post a comedic video that happened to include a picture of Osama bin Laden and to talk said that it has a policy against imagery relating to terrorist figures. They

1 (1m 53s):
told her that they accidentally removed her post that they had. Locked her account and they say the reason why they banned her and locked her out of the account initially is because she was using a cell phone that was connected to other band accounts including one of her own previous to talk accounts that posted material that they did not deem

2 (2m 11s):
appropriate. So after all of the controversy to talk reverse the band and apologized to Aziz and so she is now free to apparently make critical tick-tocks again if she so

1 (2m 25s):
chooses, but Aziz is Accepting the apology. Let's bring up a tweet that she posted a short while ago saying do I believe they took it away because of an unrelated satirical video that was deleted on a previous deleted account of wine right after I finish posting a three-part video about the uyghurs know so she is absolutely rejecting the logic coming from tick tock.

2 (2m 47s):
Casey Newton The Verge this 17 year old girl for Rosa. Aziz says she was kicked off Tick-Tock for talking about the uyghurs in China. The video sharing app has apologized as he's clearly doesn't think it's a sincere apology to you. Well, I think two things are true one is we definitely know that there is content posted on Tick Tock that we would not expect to see Ever posted on the Chinese equivalent of tick-tock, right? So let's remember Tick Tock is made by a company called bite Dance by chance has many different apps. Most of them in China. One of those apps is a clone of tick tock that is also very successful there and there is stuff on Tick-Tock in America that you just never see on that app.

2 (3m 29s):
Right? Like we have pretty good evidence that Tick Tock is more permissive than the Chinese version but there's this flip side of it which is when I talk to people who are really smart about China and security and policy. They will say that they do not believe Tick-Tock on any of this. Stuff that they think that Tick-Tock will say whatever it has to say to stay alive and you know, I think you and I are never going to be able to open up the servers and see what is happening in real time. Right? Like this is a trust-based exercise. And you know, I think in the moment Tick-Tock has a lot of good reasons not to to tell the truth

1 (4m 11s):
in 2017. The beijing-based company bite dance purchased the u.s. Social media app musically merged it in. They're Tick-Tock app and open tick-tocks headquarters in California. Now several senators are raising questions about that business deal and how the company is using American users data

2 (4m 28s):
earlier this year Senator Marco Rubio asked for an investigation into Tick Tock then as I remember even more Senators came down on the app.

1 (4m 37s):
Now I'm going to give you the two political figures involved here. The first one is Chuck Schumer and the second one is Senator Tom Cotton

2 (4m 45s):
in October the Senate. Any leader Chuck Schumer and Senator Tom Cotton. So that's a bipartisan group. They write a letter to the acting Director of National Intelligence. They say they are concerned about the way that Tick Tock is collecting user data and about whether American citizens could be censored by China.

1 (5m 5s):
They're responding by saying no, it's not true that we've removed any content. I'll give you a look at one of the statements that was issued. You've never been asked by the Chinese government to remove any content and we would not do so if asked

2 (5m 17s):
Did anything happen in response to these Senators? So the government opened an investigation into Tick-Tock and it has not been underway for very long now, but the expectation is that there will you know, someday be a report that attempts to make sense of these issues and you know, maybe come up with something more definitive than journalists have been able to so far which part of the government is investigating Tick-Tock. So there's this body in the government called the committee on foreign investment in the United States. It's which is abbreviated and pronounced syphilis syphilis. And I'm told it actually came up recently as a plot point in a recent episode of Silicon

1 (5m 56s):
Valley the committee on foreign investment in the US or syphilis is a federal agency that has wide latitude to prevent American companies from doing business with foreigners if there's a national security threat

2 (6m 10s):
because by Dan's didn't see clearance from cepheus when it acquired musically cepheus now is planning to You investigate the acquisition and one potential outcome of that could be they could say nope. We are going to retroactively say that this acquisition cannot go forward and Sorry by two hands, but you're going to have to spin off Tick Tock into its own American company. Okay. So for the people who aren't following along at home bite dance, which is tick-tocks parent company bought into America when it acquired musically, which was essentially the Sir to The Tick-Tock we know now.

2 (6m 50s):
Yes, why didn't Sophia's weigh in on that initial acquisition. Basically, when a foreign acquisition takes place you can do it two ways one is you can go to syphilis and say hey we want to like sell our American company to this foreign company. Is that okay with you? And then they review it then n either sign off on it or don't but if they do not seek that clearance Sophia's going to kind of come in after the fact after maybe some concerns are raised and then kind of go Through the investigation at that point and so it's that latter process that's happening. Now, his sippy has ever done something like this before. Yes, they did it with an app near and dear to my heart grinder grinder.

2 (7m 31s):
Yeah, the famous gay hook-up app was sold to a Chinese company called conlon group at the time. No one really raise any national security concerns over it, but then Sofia suddenly had something to say about it

1 (7m 45s):
sources who work at Grindr told Reuters engineer's in Beijing got access to users personal information such as private messages and HIV status. That's what set off alarms at a US government office overseeing foreign buyers of American Business the US government recently ordered a Chinese company to sell the dating app Grindr. I had no idea that the u.s. Government could order China to sell a company. You don't have to be too creative to think of all the fascinating and disturbing things that a Potentially threatening foreign Security Service could do with all of those photos all of that messages and all that

2 (8m 24s):
information. And the truth is that it is very popular app among queer folks. Some of those folks are the military and I think cepheus was concerned that that data could be used to understand troop movements. It could be used to Blackmail individual users who might have security clearances, right? Keep in mind that on a hook-up app people are often exchanging nudes and other sort of very explicit information. And so Sophia's decided it was not comfortable with the acquisition and so it is forcing conlon group to put grinder up for sale and become an American company again, okay.

2 (9m 6s):
If we're using grinder as our president here, we have reports that after it was bought by a Chinese company grinder allowed its beijing-based staff access to sensitive information sensitive data, and then on top of that we got this news last night

1 (9m 25s):
that California college student is Accused video sharing app Tick-Tock of transferring private user data servers in China despite the company's assurances that it does not store personal. Data there. Tick-Tock is owned by Beijing bite dance technology, but says that it operates entirely outside of China companies already facing a US Government probe about data storage and possible censorship of politically sensitive

2 (9m 49s):
content. And that's in addition to what we talked about at the top of the show what happened last week to Frozen disease which looks a lot like straight-up censorship of political speech. So we've got censorship and a credible fear that China might have access to the sensitive data. Of tons of American citizens but a large majority of those Tick-Tock users don't even care do they? I mean, I'm sure for the majority of tick-tock users. That's true. I'm sure the majority of take how users are not like doing a careful read on on the community standard to figure out what they can post but you know at the same time, I think people want to understand whether bite dance and Tick Tock can really build a firewall between the company and the Chinese government for Mainland Chinese companies it is impossible last year.

2 (10m 41s):
The government came down on bite dance and said you've allowed the certain band content to proliferate on your networks and they had to shut down some of their apps the government shutdown at least two of bite dances apps. So this question of will the Chinese government intervene in a social app is not theoretical we saw it happened to buy dance. And so I think the question everyone is asking is well, why wouldn't they do the same thing in TiK ToK by dance can say whatever it wants to about how it wants to you know, honor local laws and customs but at the end of the day what leverage does it have over the Chinese government doesn't seem to have any all Sucks other problems are coming up after the break.

2 (11m 57s):
If you're a fan of Nick Offerman, which I am or his wife Megan Mullally who seems great. You probably know they've been a couple for 20 years, which they say is about a hundred and thirty eight years in Hollywood time. And because they've been married for so long, they're starting a new podcast to keep things interesting. It's called in bed with Nick and Megan and on the show, they invite their favorite friends and celebrity guests. To their bedroom to make a podcast. I'm not joking. I haven't heard it yet. So I can't tell you things get even more risque than that, but that certainly the concept of the show, they cozy up with their famous friends and take a very candid look into their own relationship and life at large in some episodes even kick their friends out of the bed and then just get cozy with each other.

2 (12m 43s):
It sounds like a whole thing Bill Hader Lisa Kudrow Nick Kroll and so many more get into their bed with them in bed with Nick and Megan is out now. It's saying wherever you play your podcasts. Casey Casey if this breakup were orchestrated by syphilis and Tick Tock became somewhat more independent American entity. Do we have any idea what that would mean for the app know it's very unclear whether Tick-Tock can survive independently something that we know is that over the past 18 months or so bite tant's spent about Billion dollars on Advertising Tick-Tock in the United States and many people myself included believe that Tick Tock would not be as prominent or successful right now had this other wealthy company not spent a billion dollars to get it in front of people.

2 (13m 49s):
So what Tick-Tock does show ads and is rolling out some new ways for itself to make money. I think you do have to ask yourself whether the company would be able to thrive over the long term as an independent company. Is there a chance to talk could survive This happens. I mean, it seems like it's doing pretty well right now. Well, I mean in a lot of ways it's never been bigger like 2019 was huge for Tick-Tock. I think it is undeniably the social network of the year. It is been an engine of culture. We've seen so many memes proliferating their Old Town Road, which you know might be the biggest song of the year became popular as a Tic Tac. Yeah. There are many ways in which Tech talk is kind of at the peak of its powers and I think the question is just Kind of how long can it hang on to that?

2 (14m 36s):
Because at the same time even though it's like very culturally prominent. I also know from talking to people who study these things closely that tick-tocks user retention. Isn't that great more people abandon the app than come back to it. And while that is true of most apps. It is more true for Tick-Tock that it is, for example of Instagram. And in order to attract its first big bunch of users by dance spent a billion dollars on Advertising if not spending that much money anymore. And so I think the question is how does tick tock continue to grow when one frankly like they're sort of hitting a saturation point in America where I think you know, if not, the majority of people have heard of it yet that I think we're getting close to that.

2 (15m 17s):
But also maybe some of that initial novelty about the app is starting to fade and now it's got Rivals. I feel like the last time we talked about Tick-Tock on the show was with you and we were talking about how Facebook was developing its own version of tic tac. Yeah. So Facebook created a clone of it, which is Facebook does whenever any other social app becomes popular anywhere in the world. So Facebook surgeon is called lasso and it is now in Mexico and a few other countries where Tick-Tock had yet to make inroads and then there are a number of other apps now that are raising money to create what you might call a kind of a high-powered Entertainment app. Right? Like the basic idea of tick-tock is you have some like library of video and then you use machine learning to figure out which videos are most popular and then just start showing them to people as soon as they open the app.

2 (16m 6s):
Like that's what take stock is right at the more you watch the more Tick Tock understands what you're likely to like and so it just kind of keeps doing that until you get tired and shut the app off. So there are a lot of investors out there who think that they can build a better mousetrap right that like a lot of that video is like either public domain or they can go out and license like some variety of it and then they just have to work on their own machine learning algorithms and their own like, you know user interface and they think they can maybe win there there's an Called triller which just raised I think 28 million dollars to do the same thing in America. So I suspect we're about to see a lot of these kind of AI entertainment apps. So while it looks like Tick-Tock has been having this amazing year behind the scenes the brass might be pretty nervous about the cepheus investigation the looming competition anything else.

2 (16m 55s):
So I wrote about what I call narrative risk, which is just basically the idea that Tick Tock isn't going to be able Able to overcome shifting public opinion about Chinese own apps in America and I want to be careful about the way that I talk about this because obviously, you know in America, we have a long history of like racism and xenophobia against China and I want to acknowledge that at the same time the country's political systems have very different values. Rightly. We live in a democracy and China lives in an authoritarian dictatorship. what you were seeing in this big public discussion about Tick-Tock is essentially a clash of those values and there's a lot of anxiety in America about an Internet that is ruled by Chinese values where censorship is a given we're discussing politics is a No-No you look at the incredibly Brave protesters in Hong Kong and the way that the Chinese government has cracked down on that right is cracking down on people who just want the freedoms that you and I take For granted and I think increasingly it may be hard for Tick-Tock to escape that shadow.

2 (18m 7s):
Right if more people think you know Tick-Tock is just an instrument ultimately of the Chinese government then I do think people might abandon it. Casey Newton writes about social networks and democracy at The Verge. You know, I'm just a dreamer an Explorer of this life Sean and each day. I just sort of become alive to the tapestry of Human Experience. He's also got a very good newsletter called the interface. You can find it at The Verge.com / interface.

2 (18m 49s):
I'm Shawn rhombus room. This is today. Explain. I'm Shawn rhombus room. This is today. Explain.