0 (1s):
Dr. Oz wants to be Senator Oz. And on Tuesday, the celebrity physician faces his first election. He's got the endorsement of the former president, a celebrity and his entry into politics was inspired by Arnold. Schwartzenegger a celebrity Arnold was inspired by Ronald Reagan, a celebrity. And for a brief time, when Ronald Reagan was president, the mayor of Carmel in his home state was Clint Eastwood, a celebrity. And around the time Reagan left office, the mayor of Palm Springs became Sonny bono, a celebrity and a year or so after Sonny died in a skiing accident, they got a new governor in Minnesota, Jesse Ventura, his celebrity about a decade after that, Minnesota would send a new Senator to Washington Al Franken. A celebrity Washington is named after our nation's first president George, who himself was something of celebrity on today's explained in light of Dr.

0 (45s):
Oz is very important. Senate race. We're going to figure out what makes a celebrity politician viable. Why no one remembers Gary Coleman's bid for governor of California, but we'll never forget. Arnold's

1 (56s):
It's going to hang out with you until the end of time.

2 (1m 0s):
Dakota is a show about how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong. Hosted by me, Neil Patel editor in chief of the verge. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts, new episodes come out every Tuesday

0 (1m 51s):
It's today. I explained I'm Sean. Rama's from, I had just graduated from high school in the suburbs of Los Angeles. When Arnold Schwartzenegger told a guy on the TV named Jay Leno, that he wanted to be governor of California.

4 (2m 4s):
And I go to Sacramento, I will pump up Sacramento.

0 (2m 10s):
I thought it was absurd, but people around me were stoked. I remember my buddy, Joe Zev, he had just turned 18, was voting for the very first time and couldn't believe Arnold Schwartzenegger. His name was going to be on the ballot. We were standing in the quad of my high school and I asked him what makes

6 (2m 27s):
You think I don't can run California

0 (2m 29s):
And Joe in different to my question goes

7 (2m 33s):
The Terminator.

0 (2m 34s):
That was almost 20 years ago. And I didn't really get what Joseph meant by

7 (2m 40s):
The Terminator

0 (2m 42s):
Until last spring, I was back in Los Angeles at the time visiting my mom. And we were trying to figure out what movie to watch mother, how are you

7 (2m 54s):
Monday?

0 (2m 55s):
I called her up to try and figure out why she threatened to go to bed. If we chose Terminator two judgment day,

6 (3m 5s):
I don't know maybe, but he did some things that I didn't like.

0 (3m 8s):
What she means is Arnold cheated on a Kennedy?

6 (3m 11s):
Yes, of course. Why did she get married to him?

0 (3m 15s):
My mom loves the Royal family.

6 (3m 17s):
Well, I didn't think they sort of each other

0 (3m 20s):
Capital crimes aside. She decided she'd liked hanging out with me more than she disliked Arnold. So she would give Terminator two a chance, at least until she felt sleepy. But then something happened that anyone who's seen this movie would predict. My mom started the movie reclined on the couch, but it wasn't long before she started sitting up at full attention.

6 (3m 46s):
It was interesting. Actually, it wasn't as bad as I thought

0 (3m 49s):
After about an hour, she had to use the laboratory, but she was like positive, positive, positive, positive.

10 (3m 54s):
I'll be back.

0 (3m 55s):
And then during the third act, she was so into it. So astonished by what she was witnessing, that she kept looking back at me on the other couch. Like my son, are you seeing this? She said it took her forever to fall asleep that night.

6 (4m 13s):
I was bite of eight

0 (4m 15s):
And she woke up transformed.

6 (4m 18s):
Now I don't mind him

0 (4m 20s):
Decades of side-eye washed away after just one viewing of Terminator. Two judgment day

6 (4m 26s):
Is all right.

0 (4m 28s):
And this is when it finally hits me. What Joseph said,

7 (4m 32s):
Dude, the Terminator

0 (4m 36s):
Terminator two is so good. It made Arnold more than a Hollywood legend and made people trust him. It made people want to vote for him to let him run the fifth largest economy in the world. But he wasn't the only big name running to replace Democrat. Great Davis in California's 2003 total recall.

11 (4m 59s):
Oh no. I mean he was the biggest name, but I mean, we had an incredibly odd cast of characters.

0 (5m 7s):
John Myers is the Sacramento bureau chief at the Los Angeles times. He covered the Arnold beat way back before it was even the Arnold beat back when it was just a circus.

11 (5m 16s):
Peter Ueberroth the former major league baseball commissioner, Gary Coleman, the actor from different strokes, an adult film actress, Mary Carey, Arianna Huffington. Wasn't

0 (5m 26s):
Larry Flint in the mix too.

11 (5m 27s):
You are remembering correctly. My brain obviously had forgotten Mr. Flint, Larry Flint, the publisher of hustler was also a candidate.

0 (5m 35s):
Now Arnold's obviously the biggest of all these names, but I want to know what made him a serious Republican candidate among so many punchlines, especially because Republican Dr. Oz, who was running in a key Pennsylvania primary this week that could decide which party controls the United States Senate sites, Arnold, as an inspiration for his own entry into politics,

12 (5m 57s):
Whether I'm skiing with him down a slope or participating in summits or, or helping with a new initiative, he over and over again, reemphasizes that Mamet failure is not an option.

11 (6m 8s):
I think Dr. Ross may say that because Schwartzenegger had that bipartisan appeal and that he probably is the gold standard of how to kind of thread the needle in American politics. When you're famous, He has always had some sort of a reverence for the political process and politics and governing, and people are going to be mystified by that if they only know him from the Terminator movies, but you know, you got to look at his, his involvement on the president's council on physical fitness during the first George Bush administration.

4 (6m 47s):
And if you're still not convinced, I'll be back.

11 (6m 50s):
His love of politics is embracing himself in an American flag when he took the citizenship oath. I mean, he, the other thing that people who do not live in California wouldn't know is that Schwartzenegger had been involved in a statewide ballot measure the year before to provide funding for afterschool programs at schools all across California. He had championed that he had gone up and down the state and these campaign events getting voters to approve this ballot measure properly.

13 (7m 14s):
49 is the afterschool initiative. It's the idea of Arnold Schwartzenegger

4 (7m 19s):
Goal is to take kids off the streets after school and into a safe, supervised educational environment.

11 (7m 25s):
Schwartzenegger had a connection to the process. He took it seriously. He surrounded himself with experts who had come from other governors administration. He saw the job as governing. I know a lot of Democrats that voted for Arnold Schwartzenegger because they believe that he was serious. And that's the question now I think is Dr. Oz, is he serious?

0 (7m 48s):
All right. So not only was Arnold the biggest, most likable name in a circus, like recall election of recognizable names, but he was demonstrably serious about government, big name, likable serious. I want to know we were missing any other key metrics here when looking at what makes a celebrity politician like Arnold or Dr. Oz viable.

14 (8m 10s):
Hello.

0 (8m 11s):
So I reached out to a political scientist,

14 (8m 13s):
Anthony nouns at the university of Tennessee in Knoxville.

0 (8m 17s):
Who's taken up what turns out to be the sort of stigmatized study of celebrity politics.

14 (8m 22s):
And maybe stigma is too strong, a word, but certainly it's not something that some of your more serious guiding lights in our profession would get into. And I think, you know, a lot of it is that up until quite recently, you had a few people who broke through a Ronald Reagan and Arnold Schwartzenegger, but there were many, many more sort of jokes, celebrity candidates than there were real celebrity candidates. And it was just something that people just didn't take very seriously,

0 (8m 45s):
But surely that's changing in light of more recent events in this country and say current events in Ukraine.

14 (8m 51s):
Yeah. And they're beginning to take it seriously, as you mentioned, of course, as they should, a comedian is now the leader of Ukraine and, and we've had now two Trump and Reagan celebrity president. So I certainly think it's something we need to look a lot more at

0 (9m 5s):
Because of the stigma. There isn't yet an exact science to figuring out what makes a celebrity politician viable beyond the obvious name recognition of it all. But I asked professor nouns if he had his own personal checklist and he did

14 (9m 20s):
Not surprisingly, it turns out that, you know, celebrities have a number of traits that make them sort of ideal for entry into politics.

0 (9m 30s):
First brings us right back to where we started my high school, buddy, Joseph losing his mind over Arnold.

14 (9m 37s):
Number one, of course, it helps to be a popular celebrity as opposed to an unpopular celebrity.

15 (9m 43s):
I can't deny the fact that you like me right now.

14 (9m 50s):
You know, there are some celebrities that are sort of universally reviled people that nobody likes

0 (9m 55s):
And Hathaway.

14 (9m 57s):
That's not who I was thinking. You know, I've done some experiments on some of this stuff. In some, some of the research I did years ago, I think screech from saved by the bell was a guy who was, you know, kind of anchored the scale that this that's for old guys like me. He remembered that joke.

0 (10m 11s):
Rest in peace, Dustin diamond.

14 (10m 12s):
There are celebrities who kind of are at the bottom of the barrel when it comes to celebrity approval ratings or, you know, Q ratings and things like that. And that, you know, so it helps to not be one of them.

0 (10m 24s):
So trait one be a celebrity. Who's actually charmed a few people in your time trait to,

14 (10m 28s):
In addition to, I mean, some level of popularity, it's relate-ability

16 (10m 35s):
Yes, we drank beer. I liked pier still like beer.

14 (10m 39s):
If you are sort of perceived as someone who is an out of touch movie star, a pop star, whatever you, you really don't have much of a chance. And no matter what anybody says about Donald Trump, the fact is for whatever reason of his own making or not, the fact is on the relate-ability scale. He he's, he's pretty high

0 (10m 56s):
Despite living in a gold line tower over in New York city or a resort in Palm beach, Florida trade three

14 (11m 3s):
Money. You have to be able to get money. There's not a ton of evidence that celebrities have a much easier time raising money than anybody else, but you do have to have that ability, which, you know, JD events did have some, some deep pocketed friends, of course, as you know, at least one Peter two. Yeah. It's good to have that guy around Bloomberg. Of course, there's another example who I didn't think too much of, but more or less a celebrity candidate, not an entertainment celebrity, but you know, he's sort of living proof that being a celebrity is not enough because name recognition very high and literally a hundred.