1 (1s):
In preparation for the u.s. Elections Facebook has taken a critical steps to secure their platforms and provide transparency. They've more than tripled their Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people implemented five step out of verification and launched a new voting information center. Learn more about how Facebook is preparing at f b.com about / elections. That's f b.com about / elections. Today explained I'm Sean dramas for him. But my friends call me ROM. This coronavirus has been politicized from the jump in the United States.

1 (44s):
But this week's pandemic politics have been particularly jarring it started on Monday the CDC pulled guidance from its website that said that this virus mainly spreads by are guidance that they'd only posted Friday guidance widely accepted as fact in the scientific Community, but the CDC pulled it and Have been posted in error not a great look lots of unanswered questions then on Wednesday. Dr. Steven Han commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration appeared before the Senate to reassure the nation that the vaccine approval process would not be politicized that a host of experts outside.

1 (1m 24s):
The organization would weigh in before any approvals were granted almost immediately after that happened President Trump said in a briefing that may or may not happen and that the whole thing. I sounded quote like a political move at that same Senate hearing Wednesday. We saw something rare. Dr. Anthony fauci. The country's top infectious diseases experts seem to lose his cool with Senator Rand Paul. You've been a big fan of Cuomo and the shutdown New York. You've lauded New York for their policy New York had the highest death rate in the world. How can we possibly be jumping up and down and saying? Oh Governor Cuomo did a great job hit the worst death rate in the world.

1 (2m 5s):
No. Misconstrued that Senator and you've done that repetitively in the past. They got hit very badly. They made some mistakes right now. If you look at what's going on right now the things that are going on in New York to get their test positivity one-percenter less is because they are looking at the guidelines that we have put together from the task force of the four or five things of masks social distancing Outdoors. More than indoors avoiding crowds and washing hands or they've developed enough Community immunity that they're no longer having the pandemic because they have enough immunity in New York City to actually stop I challenge that sanitary course afraid.

1 (2m 51s):
I want to please sir. I would like to be able to do this because this happens with Senator Rand all the time you and not listening to what the director of the CDC said that in New York. It's about 22 percent if you believe 22% Herd immunity, I believe you're alone in that were used to seeing heated exchanges in Congress. But this one felt different because dr. Fouch e has been a paragon of patience during this entire pandemic. We got in touch with him earlier today to ask if his patients was running out but we started with what's to come with this pandemic as we head into winter. Good morning. Dr. Fouch a good morning.

1 (3m 31s):
How are you today? I'm doing well great to have you back on the show. Welcome to My Closet. Yeah, okay, good good ventilation in there now be careful. We don't want you fainting on me. Happy Equinox and new season is upon us. And of course winter is coming what's in store for the United States as as the seasons change during this pandemic. Well, you know, it's going to be complicated because what we really need to appreciate is that as we enter into the fall and the winter a lot of things that we would have done Outdoors, which is part of the public health. Program and the protocol are now going to have to be done indoors, which means it'll be an extra special challenge, you know, we often say the four or five things that really do work.

1 (4m 18s):
If everybody implements them is wearing masks keeping a distance avoiding crowds outdoors more than indoors washing hands. If everyone had done that diligently, we would not have seen some of the surges that we've seen. That have given us what I would consider is an unacceptably High background and by background. I mean is the number of cases per day which even when they're in young people who most of whom are without symptoms or minimal symptoms. Nonetheless, it propagates the outbreak and you've got to get that down. Remember when we research trying to open the economy and the country a couple of months ago month and a half ago the Southern States, you know, literally We caught fire and the number of daily cases were around 70,000 with about a thousand deaths per day now, we're back down but to between 30 and 40 but like a day you go yesterday was 40 some odd thousand cases.

1 (5m 21s):
That's unacceptable. As you enter the winter if you want to go into the fall in the winter and have to have the extra challenge of a potential flu season, which will have hopefully we can mitigate it together. With the fact that most people will be indoors in most climates in this country. It's an extra challenge. So I would like to get that Baseline way down way down in a few thousand not 30 or 40 thousand, right? I mean, we're still seeing something like a thousand deaths a day. I think it may be lower close to 800 but it's been as high as nearly 3,000 a day at one point. Could it get worse in the winter?

1 (6m 2s):
People are now saying we may see 400,000 deaths by the Of the year, I saw that in a recent University of Washington study. Is that a realistic estimate? You know, we really got to be careful of that ROM because those are models and as I've always say, you know models are based on the assumptions that you make to put into the model certainly if things go poorly if in fact we do not get control and people do not cooperate in some of the public health measures that could happen. I've argued throughout throughout that that doesn't necessarily mean we have to accept that because that's within our power to mitigate against in addition to that hopefully will begin and these are just things that I have cautious optimism about although there's no guarantee.

1 (6m 54s):
Hopefully as we get towards the end of the year, we'll know that we have a vaccine or more than one vaccine that safe and effective. So if we could start vaccinating at least the high-risk people All as well as the Frontline responders by the end of this calendar year and into 2021 we could prevent that surge that everyone is concerned about but we've got to do two things. We can't just rely on a vaccine. We've got to rely on the emergence of a vaccine with more and more people getting vaccinated together with in adherence to the simple recommended Public Health measures.

1 (7m 36s):
Particularly mask-wearing when you're inside and may not be able to keep the physical distance that we like to see ya on the vaccine. What is the latest on a vaccine being available in the United States? What do you think the timeline is? Well again, we don't know so when you hear people make projections, they are merely projections. They are based on the assumption that the vaccines that are currently in advanced trials and we had three and then yesterday we A fourth one of that one is on hold because of an adverse event that took place in the UK, but three of them are going and that's the Pfizer product the moderna product and now the J&J or Jansen product.

1 (8m 22s):
These are now in play they have anywhere from 30 to 60 thousand people per trial and we feel looking ahead that given the enrollment that we've seen and the number of If infections, I would project and this is merely a projection that by the end of the year. Let's say November or December. We will know whether the vaccine plural are safe and effective. It could be earlier. I mean if there are enough infections in the trial and you could distinguish between the placebo and the vaccine limb of the trial you may be able to make a determination early, but let's assume that it's November and December.

1 (9m 6s):
You can ask. Well, what do you think the chances are of it being safe and effective. The first honest thing to say is that you don't know but based on the preliminary data that we've seen in animal studies as well as in the phase 1 study the vaccines appear to induce your response that's comparable to a good response to Natural infection, which traditionally is always a good sign that you're going in the right direction, but the The proof of the pudding is going to be the result of the trial. Now, if in fact it shows to be safe and effective and you start vaccinating people you could do that as early as the end of this year because simultaneously with the vaccine trials we've taken a major Financial Risk of producing vaccines, even before we know that they work which means if they do work you saved Lot of months if they don't work, the only thing you've lost is money.

1 (10m 11s):
And right now we feel that the money investment is really worth the risk financially because we want to do things as safely but as quickly as possible once we have a vaccine in the United States, do we have a plan for how it will be distributed across the country? Yes. Yes traditionally the final decision on that. That is what the CDC which they've done. Well traditionally throughout the years. When you have a vaccine that you're starting to roll out. They rely heavily on the advice of a committee called the advisory committee on immunization practices with regard to covid-19 vaccines with a added an extra layer to that of the National Academy of Medicine putting together a group of scientist ethicist and Is to map out what we think is the most appropriate fair and ethical way to distribute vaccines and a graded fashion traditionally.

1 (11m 16s):
I might say that usually means you start off vaccinating the healthcare providers in front-line individuals who are putting themselves at risk to take care of sick patients. The other is those at high risk such as the elderly those who have underlying conditions and people like that the fun. Will determination has not been made, but that will be coming very soon.

2 (11m 49s):
Quick break, then I'll ask dr.

1 (11m 50s):
Fouch e if he's worried about the politics of the vaccine the pandemic the CDC the FDA Alleman. In preparation for the u.s. Elections Facebook has taken a critical steps to secure their platforms and provide transparency. They've more than tripled their Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people implemented sighs step out of verification and launched a new voting information center.

1 (12m 31s):
Learn more about how Facebook is preparing a test b.com about / elections. That's f b.com about /

2 (12m 40s):
elections.

1 (12m 43s):
Dr. Fouch e how worried are you about faith in the vaccine as well as faith in the CDC. I mean even before covid-19 this country had this sort of anti-vaxxer sentiment going. That's all we spoke to you about the flu shot a few years ago. And now we've got confusion about leadership at the CDC last Friday the CDC posted information to its website about Airborne transmission, then took it down on Monday. And a lot of scientists were concerned about that. Are you concerned that people might not trust a vaccine produced in the United States? I am very concerned about that.

1 (13m 24s):
And that's the reason why we have got to and I try to do this and that's why I'm right here talking with you. I'm I'm trying to make sure that we can reach out to the community and explain the process because when you look at the decisions about whether a vaccine is safe. Safe and effective and we spoke about this in detail at the Senate hearing yesterday that many people tuned in to at least I gathered that from a lot of the tweets that when by following that hearing is that rewards on Twitter. I'm not but my staff sends me these emails and say you got to look at this boy.

1 (14m 6s):
No, I don't I don't have a Twitter account. But I just I'm so busy. I don't do that, but the situation is That people need to understand that us an independent body who is beholden to No One not to the president not to the vaccine companies not to the FDA not to me an independent group of established scientists ethicist and statisticians. They are called a data and safety monitoring board intermittently. They are the only ones that have access to the data. Yeah, because it's a double-blind study. The only one that can look at it is the unblinded statistician from the data and safety monitoring board and a vaccine has a predetermined set of criteria to determine if it works or not and the data and safety monitoring board intermittently looks at that and when they feel it's reached that point they will then notify the company then the company has the option which they will certainly Do of presenting it to the FDA either for an emergency use authorization or directly for what we call a b LA or a biological license application which essentially is a license the fda's independent scientists will look at that then they will consult with another advisory committee Culver pack who are again advisory to the FDA.

1 (15m 43s):
Those data will become public so that scientists like myself and my colleagues will have access to the data. So everybody's worrying that someone's going to make an end run around that and try to get a vaccine out for political reasons. Yeah. Well that will not happen. But if it does all possibility, it will be really transparent what is going on because the scientists will see the data the FDA has Pledged publicly multiple times that they will not approve a vaccine unless they're established non political scientists agree that it's safe and effective and we've got to keep getting that message out because it's totally understandable giving the mixed messages that are coming out that the public might be skeptical about Iraq scenes.

1 (16m 38s):
So we've really got to regain the trust and reach out to the community. T that we're not going to let anything out and if it turns out somebody tries to force it out I tell you I will be one of the first ones that will object to that so you'll be out there saying this is not the vaccine we should trust or I would say somehow is politicized. Yeah, I would say that the process is not the right process to do this and we really need to go back to the right process. Are you worried about long-term how this whole coronavirus pandemic has Maybe? In faith in these institutions that previously had this sort of bulletproof reputation institutions like the CDC.

1 (17m 20s):
Yes, that is unfortunate. There have been some unfortunate things that have happened that there have been people within agencies that have tried unsuccessfully but tried to influence the CDC, you know in one situation not to mention any names one of those individuals tried to influence what I said, which is Ali A Fool's errand because I essentially told them to go take a walk but the fact is that that has happened but that's gone. Now those people are not there anymore so I can tell you quite frankly that I have been in intensive discussions with the director of the CDC and the director of FDA and I really truly believe that you can trust them.

1 (18m 4s):
But besides the core people the career scientists at the CDC and the FDA. They do this for a living. They are apolitical and completely devoted to the health of our nation. And those are the people that will speak out. If you see anything that doesn't look right hmm, you know, you mentioned your your appearance before the Senate yesterday and and how it sort of blew up on Twitter. I have to ask I mean since you brought it up what blew up was was that people finally saw you it seems lose your patience with Senator Rand. All I know how hard you've tried from watching you over the past six or seven months to sort of remain above the political Fray and I wonder six seven months into it.

1 (18m 55s):
Is it is it wearing on you? Is it is it impossible to sort of remain above the politics? And the way this pandemic has been politicized. Well, the answer is it is certainly possible and I have done that not only over the last six months but as you know, well, you don't know because you're a young guy that that I've been doing this like for 40 years. I know that because I've read your biography. So the fact is it is not a question of rising above the politics. I never let ever ever let political considerations get in the way what I became impatient with and I do have a great deal of respect for the institution of the Senate and I do have respect for Senator Rand Paul, but he was saying things that were not true and What I just couldn't let that stand because there we were on national TV with the lot of cameras floating in and I just had a cult him on that and I think people who were giving him information it is what's called cherry-picking information out there.

1 (19m 59s):
I think he's fundamentally a good person. But what he did is he was saying things that were not compatible with what the scientific data. So what the audience saw me do was say whoa. Wait a minute time out. You really can't say That so I didn't mean to be I wasn't disrespectful at all. I think I was quite respectful but it isn't a question of politics because he was saying what he thought was the right thing and I disagreed with that. On the subject of the politicization as we move away from particular conflicts or anything like that. I just wonder because this has been politicized of course something like wearing a mask is controversial is divisive.

1 (20m 41s):
Do you think we're as we head into winter running the risk of people there's some surveys out there that suggest mask-wearing is decreasing in some parts of the United States and and of course with the winter coming and more people spending time indoors, of course the risk Uuuuuugh have transmission of aerosols is increasing right are we at risk now of sort of losing the thread here and and losing the urgency that people used to have. Yeah what we really need to do and it gets back to your question about about politics. The problem is that it isn't my interpretation. It's that you have to be asleep to not realize that we are operating in a very divisive Society it is Fortunate but it is true superpose the pain that were in a highly charged political season with big-time steaks that hand elections when that happens what has unfortunately happened is that the public health response and the public health activities.

1 (21m 49s):
In fact have become politicized which is so unfortunate. We've lost sight of the fact that the bad guy here. Is the virus the bad guy is not one side or the other. So when you're doing public health things you've got to integrate yourself into the concept that public health measures should be the Gateway and the vehicle to getting the country's economy back and opening up the country. It should not be an obstacle and yet there are some who interpret that as An obstacle it isn't the obstacle.

1 (22m 30s):
It's the solution. So we've got to keep hammering that message home that that's what the issue is. We're all in this together. And when you have some groups of society who make it a political issue it completely, you know, I think I wouldn't say destroys but makes it very complicated to get a uniform consistent approach in our country. The holiday season is coming and it's a time for miracles. Dr. Fouch. I wonder if you could wave a magic wand over the United States and and change one thing tomorrow to improve the

2 (23m 14s):
trajectory of this pandemic. What would it be?

1 (23m 19s):
Yeah, I think apart from a vaccine which will have to wait a few months. If I were to ways a one now, it would be to get the entire country uniformly pulling together in a public health way to get these cases down. In other words. Let's make out. You know, this is a couple of days after 9/11. We didn't have any political argument about what we needed to do. Or you know December 1941 after Pearl Harbor, you know, everybody was in it together. That's really what we're dealing with.

1 (23m 59s):
You know, we are I don't want to get too melodramatic but we are at war with a virus. We are not at war with each other. So that's what my magic wand would have would be that kind of a spirit of pulling together. Dr. Patrick, thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate it. Thank you for all your work always good to be with you. Thanks a lot. Dr. Anthony falchi. He's the director of the National Institute of allergy and infectious diseases. I'm Sean Rama's from the rest of the today explain team includes mu JT I'm gonna al-saadi will read Halima Shah Jillian Weinberger and no MM hassenfeld who contributes music to more music from The Mysterious brake master cylinder extra help this week from bird Pinkerton Cecilia lays.

1 (24m 53s):
Our fact Checker a film Shapiro is our Golda Arthur is the supervising producer and Liz Kelly Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcasts today explained is part of the VOX media podcast

2 (25m 7s):
Network.

1 (25m 34s):
In preparation for the u.s. Elections Facebook has taken a critical steps to secure their platforms and provide transparency. They've more than tripled their Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people implemented sighs step out of verification and launched a new voting information center. Learn more about how Facebook is preparing. @f b.com about / elections. That's f b.com about / elections. Yes.