0 (1s):
Did you know that LinkedIn is partnering with creators, their new creator accelerator program offers a built-in community of like-minded people and credible tools to elevate everything you make and the training you need to start compelling conversations about the world of work. Start building community, create more than just content and win $15,000 to help bring your vision to life. How's that for acceleration, head over to linkedin.com/creators to apply today,

2 (30s):
We can't help it. We're always on the hunt for a shorter route, a better answer, a backdoor to get not just what we want, but what we need. I know I am, and shouldn't those things come without a special connection state farm thing. So that's why they offer surprisingly great rates. That's also why this ad has no promo code because with state farm, you can get the covers that meet your needs for the price that fits your budget. Like a good neighbor state farm, is there call or click to get a quote today

3 (1m 12s):
Over the weekend, an oil leak was reported a few miles off the coast of Huntington beach in the OSI. Well, over a hundred thousand gallons spilled into the sea killing birds and fish. There's a class action lawsuit being put together and the governor is renewing calls to move away from any of the dirty stuff in California. It's time. Yeah.

4 (1m 32s):
Once and for all to disabuse ourselves that this has to be part of our future. This is part of our past.

3 (1m 39s):
We want to know why this kind of thing just keeps happening in America. So we reached out to Sam Ori,

5 (1m 45s):
I'm the executive director of the energy policy Institute at the university of Chicago.

3 (1m 49s):
Sam, why does this kind of thing keep happening in America?

5 (1m 51s):
Because over time we've accepted a certain level of risk in terms of the energy infrastructure, the fuel production and distribution infrastructure that supports our way of life. And the current energy system is a heavily fossil fuel dominated energy system. Oil is at this point in the U S specialty as kind of the big dog, 90% of the fuel that's delivered to our transportation system today is oil-based fuel gasoline diesel jet fuel. Yes, we have more electric cars than we used to. Yes, we have some amount of ethanol that's blended into gasoline, but at the end of the day, they're rounding errors compared to the, to the oil based fuels that power, the economy. And so, you know, producing and getting that oil into markets entails a lots of infrastructure.

5 (2m 35s):
And we've kind of accepted a certain level of risk over time. The amount of risk that we accept and the ways that we have, you know, balanced costs and benefits of that system have changed. But that at the end of the day, oil is king in our economy and we've accepted the risks of living the way that we do

3 (2m 53s):
Well. All right, good uncomplicated answer. I want to talk about why we've chosen to live this amount of risk, but tell me how we got into offshore drilling to begin with

6 (3m 8s):
Ladies and gentlemen. If I say I'm an oil man, you would agree, or you have a great chance here. Bear in mind, you can lose it all. If you're not careful.

5 (3m 20s):
The first thing people should understand is that many of the fields where production occurred in the early stages of the United States oil industry, which was all on shore, started in Pennsylvania,

7 (3m 32s):
East of Waterston, the hair south of Tioga and the Southwest of sex. There's a fair chance of striking or out in a number of reservoir rocks

5 (3m 42s):
Moved to Indiana parts of Illinois and eventually Texas and other places, California.

7 (3m 48s):
Most of our operation is underground. The fields are still yours. You can go right on farming. If you shouldn't hit on you get the standard royalty one eighth of every,

5 (4m 0s):
But as he got closer to the coast, a lot of those fields that were developed they're way underground. So it's not like they there's some border where you hit the water and the field stops.

8 (4m 9s):
Actually, we started out in off shore drilling in exactly the same way as if we were drilling on shore. And then once we've got a likely spot, we can do either of two things. They can either drill from the land, or we can actually go out in the water and drill

5 (4m 21s):
The fields that they were developing onshore. People who are joined for oil, realize these things extend out into the water actually like in the late 18 hundreds, 1896, the very first offshore Wells in the U S were drilled by oil derricks on wooden piers that extended out from the shore into a couple of hundred feet of water in Summerland, California. In one sense, that was the first offshore. Well that was drilled in the United States. The first freestanding facility that was producing oil came much later, 1938, the first production of offshore by a freestanding facility in 14 feet of water, about a mile and a half off the coast of Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico

3 (5m 2s):
At that point is anyone regulating this new and very dangerous industry

5 (5m 6s):
At that point, the states that are adjacent to those waters off shore are regulating the production off their coast. And especially obviously in cases where people are just building a pier out into very shallow water, even in the case of a mile and a half off the coast of Louisiana at that point at the 1930s, it's still regulated by the states.

3 (5m 22s):
And does that at some point change?

5 (5m 24s):
Yeah. It changes in the Truman administration. At that point, there comes an awareness that the United States is sitting on a goldmine

7 (5m 32s):
Gasoline. The biggest seller of the industry though, far improved over what it was a quarter century ago is still one of the biggest bargains on your shopping list. Another example of how oil serves you.

5 (5m 47s):
There's a couple of seminal pieces of legislation, the submerged lands act, and then the outer continental shelf lands act that are passed in 1953 that define all of this and create the system of producing, leasing, regulating oil and gas in federal waters, which this is a sort of an arcane detail, but for the most part, federal waters start about three nautical miles off the coast of, of a given state. There, the only exception that was agreed in the original legislation was for Texas and one part of Florida and the panhandle, which get a state boundary of nine nautical miles out into the ocean, but everywhere else in the U S it's three miles and then the federal government controls everything outside of that.

3 (6m 27s):
Once the federal government gets involved in offshore drilling in earnest, does that dramatically increase how much offshore drilling is happening?

5 (6m 36s):
I mean, sure. Regulatory certainty maybe played some role, but it's really the, the advancements in technology that occur over the coming decades. And to the 1960s, you have really a huge leasing Bonanza in the United States in the off shore. And I mean, the way the federal regulation works and the way that leasing works in federal, in federal lands at a very high level is that companies are required to, you know, they bid for the tracks they pay, you know, and the tracks go to the highest bidder. So that's called a bonus bid. If you, if you win that track, you then pay what you bid. So you pay that you pay a rental fee. Once you take control of the track, and then you pay production royalties on, you know, on any oil and gas that are produced.

5 (7m 22s):
Their stewardship of the environment was a lot of times it was couched in this word conservation. And at the time conservation meant something very specific, which was really conserving the oil. I mean, making sure that, you know, the oil is produced in a, in a responsible manner from the, from the perspective of like not wasting any of the oil for the benefit of the country.

3 (7m 45s):
How does that change?

5 (7m 46s):
It changes in 1969, which is really a first Seminole catastrophe for the U S offshore oil and gas industry, the union oil spill in Santa Barbara.

9 (7m 57s):
Okay. That morning. And it smelled like tar and went outside. I thought someone perhaps was tiring.

5 (8m 4s):
They're doing some work, pulling up some pipe out of there. Well off the coast of Santa Barbara, there's a pressure incident. That's not properly kind of managed. And the next thing you know, you have a blowout,

8 (8m 15s):
Well, it's still bubbling up from the floor of the Santa Barbara channel at the rate of nearly 4,000 gallons a day.

5 (8m 21s):
The blowout was enough that it created kind of fissures around the well on the C4 over the course of the coming days, the well spills about 4 million gallons into the waters off the coast of Santa Barbara. It's an 800 square mile oil slick that fouls like 30 miles of California beaches.

10 (8m 40s):
It was black tar, it was thick black tar covering everything.

3 (8m 46s):
What's the reaction.

5 (8m 48s):
And this is happening right at the time, the 1960s where the environmental movement is just getting kind of started. And this is one of the very catalyzing, I would say, events for the environmental movement by the

11 (8m 57s):
Following year. The first earth day was observed by hundreds of thousands of Americans and politicians took note of the

5 (9m 4s):
Growing power. And so over the course of the coming, you know, the coming year or two years, there's just a huge amount of environmental regulation that passes. And I, I'm not sure, I, I guess I wouldn't say that, you know, you can tie all of it back just to the oil spill, but the oil spill was a huge, you know, catalyzer of activity. So the national environmental policy act was passed by Nixon or signed by Nixon on January 1st, 1970, you know, safe drinking, water, safe drinking water act, 1974, coastal zone management act 1972, the clean air act 1970. I mean, there's really just a flurry of, you know, environmental protections that are put into place in the early 1970s.

3 (9m 44s):
But despite this regulatory push, this isn't the last time this country sees an offshore oil spill of this magnitude, right?

5 (9m 51s):
19 89, 20 years later, Exxon Valdez runs a ground in prince William sound, Alaska and dumps 11 million gallons of oil onto the coast and into the water in prince William sound, Alaska,

12 (10m 8s):
The tanker, the Exxon Valdez, and just loaded more than a million barrels of Alaskan cruise. And it was about 25 miles from the Valdez terminal and was apparently trying to Dodge ice flows from the nearby Columbia glacier when it ran aground

5 (10m 23s):
Huge catastrophe. I think that's probably my first recollection of a major national news event that I watched on TV.

13 (10m 30s):
I just have not arrived yet to begin cleaning the slime off the Island's beaches and rocks that probably won't happen until next week. Exxon says it cannot do the job in a hasty haphazard manner

5 (10m 41s):
And, you know, 11 million gallons. And that's a pretty major spill. Again, the Santa Barbara spill that, you know, we talked about a minute ago for 4 million gallons. So Valdez is a huge spill

13 (10m 51s):
Day, 10 of the oil spill crisis and the cleanup efforts still just beginning a few crews are on a few beaches removing a little bit of oil, but there are hundreds of miles of effected coastline

5 (11m 4s):
That I think really ushered in some changes that, that had even greater impact than the Santa Barbara oil spill Immediately after Exxon Valdez, Congress signs, and the president signed into law, the oil pollution act of 1990, and it has huge amount of reform and new rules around liability. It's really the first time for a lot of the different parts of the U S offshore oil and gas system, right? Platforms that drill pipelines that carry oil tankers that carry oil this whole, the whole system is governed by a regime after 1990, that puts liability on these guys for accidents.

5 (11m 51s):
And when you look at the spill from the coast guard from others, federal sources, you see a big change following 1990, there's a big drop in the volume of oil. That's going into the water post 1990 and, you know, in particular from, from tankers and from other, from other boat traffic, but not just from those from, from all sources,

14 (12m 11s):
The oil pollution act of 1990 strengthened requirements for oil spill, preparation and planning increased us coast guard, response capability, and required double holes on new oil tankers.

3 (12m 25s):
Okay. So Santa Barbara in 1969 gets the country a bunch of new regulations. 20 years later, Exxon Valdez creates even more regulations, but just about 20 years after that, none of that is enough to stop. What I believe is the biggest oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry from taking place off the shore of the United States.

5 (12m 48s):
Certainly the biggest spill in us history, 150 million gallons from the Deepwater horizon accident that happened in 2010,

15 (12m 56s):
50 miles, south of Louisiana, a massive explosion lit up the sky 126 workers were doing routine drilling on the oil platform before it was engulfed by smoke and flame.

5 (13m 8s):
Semi-submersible drilling rig called the deep water horizon has a catastrophic blowout, leads to the death of 11 rig workers. The rig sinks in about 5,000 feet of water severs the connection to the sea floor and, you know, over the coming 80 days or so about 4 million barrels of crude oil. So about 150 million gallons are released into the Gulf of Mexico.

15 (13m 32s):
Another rig 30 miles away could also see the explosion saying it looked like a volcano erupting

3 (13m 38s):
And like Exxon Valdez and Santa Barbara, before it does this to lead to a bunch of new regulations,

5 (13m 45s):
It does lead to new regulations. Definitely. It also leads to a fundamental rethink of how the regulation of the industry is structured. A more fundamental issue was the conflict of interest that arose from having one agency in charge of not only maximizing production. One second,

16 (14m 2s):
Trey Salazar took office. He found a minerals and management service that had been plagued by corruption for years. This was the agency charged with not only providing permits, but also enforcing laws governing

5 (14m 17s):
Their mission is to, is to lease as much of these tracks as possible and get as much oil flowing as possible. That's like a direct conflict with saying, let's do it as safely as possible. It's much more like let's do it as fast as possible.

3 (14m 29s):
And no one noticed that until 2010,

5 (14m 32s):
People just didn't pay attention to it until deep water horizon. And you know, this happens right at the beginning of the Obama administration. And I will say, I think the Obama administration was really stung by what happened.

16 (14m 45s):
We will cancel the pending lease sale in the Gulf of Mexico and the proposed lease sale off the coast of Virginia.

5 (14m 52s):
Because if you remember in that campaign and when they first came into the off into office, the Obama administration was talking about opening up new areas for drilling and then deep water horizon happens. And I think they were like, whoa, wait a minute. This needs a complete re rethink the way that we're doing this. This is not being done well. And so they break up the minerals management service into three separate agencies. Each one of which is in charge of a particular area of the offshore regulatory system. So the bureau of ocean energy management comes into existence is in charge of managing the leasing process and lease sales. The bureau of safety and environmental enforcement is created. And they're in charge of, of, you know, regulating safety and environmental performance.

5 (15m 36s):
And then the office of natural resource revenue is created and they're in charge of managing the money. So like the dollars are not getting mixed up with leasing. The environmental safety is not getting mixed up with leasing. There's three separate agencies that are in charge of each one of those areas. That's a huge reform that happens after a Deepwater horizon. And then there was of course, like other, you know, very technology specific regulations that happened that require oil companies to have certain kinds of blowout, preventers to have, you know, a certain specific types of technology to adhere to, you know, additional inspections and things like that. But the biggest reform is the complete rethink of the way that the whole offshore industry in the U S is regulated.

3 (16m 19s):
You drill, you learn, you spell, you learn new laws, you learn, but we still have spills. How come in a minute until they explained support for the show today comes from Yext. It's like next, but with a Y dial-up modems, zip drives pagers, you wouldn't dream of running your business with outdated technologies from the nineties yet, yet some companies do their websites run on keyword, search a technology that hasn't evolved much since 1999. According to the people Yext, I have no idea, but when hyperlinks were all the rage that would maybe cut it, but in 2021, your customers expect more.

3 (17m 5s):
In other words, when they ask questions, they expect answers and Yext has the answers because they use AI with Yext. You can upgrade your website with search that understands natural language. So when people ask questions, they get direct answers, not random links to sort through. And when your customers get the answers they need, that's good for your business answers. Bring people closer to transaction a low. We know how much we love transactions to modernize your website today, go to yext.com. That is Y E X t.com.

17 (17m 40s):
Support for this episode comes from PayPal. The name, you know, for online payments. And now they're in store with PayPal. Zedell offering you a complete point of sale solution to simplify your Workday with PayPal's metal, you can accept more payment options in store from debit and credit cards to Venmo and PayPal. PayPal is that all was designed to help streamline your business operations. You can integrate all your tools to manage your in store and online sales from one account and get access to advanced inventory management, sales reports, and insights get simple, fair, and transparent pricing with no hidden fees and no long-term commitments. Just the advantages of PayPal, that and a free point of sale app and access to the power of the entire PayPal network.

17 (18m 24s):
It's a new level of control. So you can take your business to a whole new level to learn more about PayPal's point of sale solution. Visit paypal.com/in store that's paypal.com/in store.

6 (18m 44s):
I drink your milkshake. I drink it up.

3 (18m 52s):
All right, Sam, we've had a handful of disastrous spills, countless smaller ones. We learn lots of lessons, create lots of rules, but we still have spells how much oil is spilling into us waters. This

5 (19m 4s):
The amount of oil that's going in just to put it in perspective, you know, 500,000 gallons. What does that look like? What does that mean? It's about the size of an Olympic swimming pool.

3 (19m 13s):
So just, just one Olympic swimming pool a year.

5 (19m 17s):
Just one.

3 (19m 18s):
How bad is this one in California right now? Is that only an Olympic sized swimming pool? Not that that's not bad, but not as bad as I maybe thought it was.

5 (19m 26s):
It's a major spill without question. And so I think estimates up until right now, or somewhere in the neighborhood would, let's say 140,000 gallons of oil spilled off the coast of California, still a major spill. When you think about it spread, you know, in a, in a paper thin sheen over the top of the ocean,

3 (19m 46s):
Give me a sense of how much offshore oil drilling is still being done in this country at this point.

5 (19m 51s):
So in 2019, total us production of crude oil was about 12.3 million barrels per day. That's just all cross onshore, offshore all us production of crude oil, offshore oil production, which is heavily concentrated in the federal in the Gulf of Mexico was about 1.9 million barrels per day. So, you know, you're talking 15% or so of, of total us crude production coming from the Gulf of Mexico.

3 (20m 19s):
I know you said there's a certain level of accepted risk, but have there been problems that haven't yet been fixed?

5 (20m 24s):
There is I think an interesting question or important question to ask about the fundamental approach to safety regulation for the offshore oil industry in the United States. And, you know, this is something that in the aftermath of deep water horizon, the deep water horizon, you know, the commission on the spill, which, you know, I know this sounds crazy, but for anybody who's interested in this, I highly the deep water horizon commission's official report. It's one of the most gripping public policy documents you will ever read. It will absolutely give you a deep history and appreciation for the industry, how it evolved and what caused all of these things to happen. And deep cut.

5 (21m 5s):
One of the things they recommended was that the U S kind of shift away from this very technology mandate heavy approach to regulation and shift to something more like a performance-based set of standards. And right now, a lot of the regulation for offshore oil and gas in the U S amounts to the federal government telling industry, you know, you should have this piece of equipment or that piece of equipment, or this type of drill, or this type of pipe. And that approach really puts a lot of onus on the regulator to know what is the right type of equipment. What is the most safe type of equipment? What is the safest type of technology? When, you know, it's probably pretty hard for the regulators to know that the industry knows it much better.

5 (21m 47s):
The regulators don't know it as well. And so it's kind of a, I think a backward system, other countries, Norway, major oil producer, the United Kingdom, major offshore oil producer, Canada. These places have adopted a much different approach to regulation, which is much more about performance-based standards, telling the industry that you have to achieve these particular performance standards to be able to maintain your kind of social license, to operate in these places. And it's much more about having the industry prove to the regulator that they can operate safely. They have to produce a safety case for projects that that can prove to the regulator that they can operate safely.

5 (22m 33s):
And when, in terms of environmental performance offshore, and if they can't prove it, they can't work, they don't get the leases, they don't get to work. So why doesn't the United States do that? The dominant component, the dominant element of the culture in the industry and in the political system that has sort of been captured in many parts of the country by the industry is produce, produce, produce. I mean, remember, these are thousands of there's thousands of jobs that you're talking about. Thousands of jobs, you're talking about a huge even today. So, I mean, like maybe we're people would argue like we're past like the huge boom days of, you know, the, of $20 billion a year of revenue, and sure we are, but even today, the industry is still generates, you know, four or $5 billion a year of revenue for the federal government.

5 (23m 21s):
And some of that's flowing to the states, you're talking about revenue, talking about jobs, you know, the revolving door between the industry and state and local and federal politics in those states, they have not been willing to support this kind of like a fundamental change to safety,

3 (23m 37s):
Put it into words, repeating one of them, the reason is drill babies.

5 (23m 41s):
Drill of being part of the reason is drill baby drill. You can't let sort of the American consumer off the hook either. I mean, at the end of the day, the argument is from the industry has been tighter. Regulation will lead to higher costs and it on some of what's true, right? You could imagine concocting some kind of regulatory system that would produce zero spills ever, but the cost of that system would be very high. And so the typical American consumer, like, you know, you can't even, we can't even raise the gas tax to keep pace with inflation. The typical American consumer is in some ways, it's kind of accepted that this is the trade off.

5 (24m 22s):
This is our national system of producing and distributing oil for the transportation economy. This is what we live with. And there hasn't been anything that's happened really that's caused people to sort of revolt and be willing to tolerate higher costs.

3 (24m 38s):
So is it kind of like we're going to have oil spills as long as we have offshore drilling and we're going to have offshore drilling as long as, you know, 90% of our transportation is based on fossil fuels. Is it that simple?

5 (24m 53s):
I think it is that simple, but I do think that it's important to say like we, the regulatory system, as it exists today is tolerated obviously way less oil spills than it did 30, 40 years ago. So it's important to understand the, you know, what is the scale of the problem that we're talking about? I would say that the us offshore oil and gas industry is still vulnerable to low probability, high impact catastrophic incidents. And there's no doubt. You know, one thing we haven't really talked much about is like the Trump administration definitely rolled back multiple safety reforms that were passed in the wake of Deepwater horizon.

5 (25m 33s):
And so many people are, would argue that the U S is more susceptible now than it was, you know, in 2016 to a low probability high impact catastrophic incident. That's a hundred percent I would say true. But it's also true that the, that in terms of like routine incidents, it's way less than it was it's, we're not, we're not dealing with a, with a system today that is, that is producing the frequency or size of oil spills. You know, that it wasn't the 1970s or eighties or nineties. It's a tiny fraction of that amount.

3 (26m 10s):
So essentially what you're saying is things are arguably the best they've ever been since we started off shore drilling in this country. But we're just one cataclysmic error from having the next biggest oil spill we ever had.

5 (26m 25s):
That's true. Yes.

3 (26m 28s):
Well, on that note, Sam,

5 (26m 31s):
Thank you. Thank you for having me,

3 (26m 39s):
Sam boring executive director of the energy policy at the university of Chicago. Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain. I'm Sean Rama's from here to remind you that the deep water horizon commissioner report formerly known as deep water, the Gulf oil disaster and the future of offshore drilling is according to Sam, the citizen Kane of commission reports.

5 (27m 8s):
Let me tell you something I'm not exaggerating. When I say that, that if you have a chance to flip through that, cook the commission's report, you will be surprised. You will not want to put it down, read the first few pages and you'll be hooked.

2 (28m 7s):
We can't help it. We're always on the hunt for a shorter route, a better answer, a backdoor to get not just what we want, but what we need. I know I am. And shouldn't those things come without a special connection state farm thing. So that's why they offer surprisingly great rates. That's also why this ad has no promo code because with state farm, you can get the covers that meet your needs for the price that fits your budget. Like a good neighbor, state farm is there call or click to get a quote today.

19 (28m 40s):
So where do you get your financial advice? Seriously, your parents, your friend, you're super into Bitcoin Tik TOK influencers. Doesn't it make more sense to listen to the experts like the actual experts, because they're on NerdWallet, smart money podcast every week, smart money's hosts break down the financial news that impacts your life. And then they bring in the nerds specifically guests from NerdWallet's network of about 100 different finance wants to answer money questions like is early retirement actually possible, or how the heck do I talk to my kids about money to find out for yourself, listen to NerdWallet, smart money podcast, wherever you like to listen to podcasts.