0 (1s):
Summertime. Ain't what it used to be. By this point, we've grown accustomed to the fires, the dire warnings, even the deaths, but now roads are melting.

2 (14s):
It's so hot in the UK. All flights into Luton airport have to be diverted when the tarmac actually melted

0 (20s):
We're discovering bodies,

3 (22s):
The woman walking on the newly uncovered mud found a barrel with human remains inside the person had a gunshot wound and had likely been in the barrels since the late 1970s or early

0 (32s):
Eighties. There's a ghost town

4 (34s):
Police also believe they are going to find more bodies here because there is no end in sight to that mega drag that's causing this water level to fault,

0 (45s):
But we're still having trouble convincing people to water their lawns less that's coming up on today explained

6 (60s):
What does that people have internet I'm Marquez, Brownlee, AK MKBHD. And I just want to quickly tell you about my podcast way form. So I've been making tech review videos on YouTube for over a decade. And through the years I've gotten my hands on some pretty cool jaw-dropping tech on wave form. Along with my co-host Andrew Mangan Nellie, we take a more, in-depth look at some of the most recent bleeding edge tech out today. We covered the crazy stuff that you don't see every day, like camera, robot, arms, and rollable TVs.

7 (1m 25s):
But we also covered everyday tech like spark phones, laptops, and like the influx of EVs that seem to come out or what feels like every other week,

6 (1m 33s):
All that stuff. So if you want to stay up to date with the latest tech and internet news, you can find us on Spotify, apple podcasts, or anywhere you listen. See you there

0 (1m 45s):
Today. I explained to Sean Rama's from we as a people have a whole lot of differences, but we're all United by our biggest problem, the warming climate, it's a problem. So immense people feel hopeless and helpless to turn the tide, but you got to start somewhere and that somewhere might literally be just outside your front door.

8 (2m 5s):
Well, we have lawns turning brown,

0 (2m 7s):
Kaylie Wells covers climate for KCRW public radio in Los Angeles. Lately she's been covering lawns.

8 (2m 14s):
Millions of us started facing outdoor water restrictions. At the beginning of June, we've been restricted to only be able to water them once or twice per week.

0 (2m 24s):
Now lawns might feel irrelevant in light of wildfires and dust storms and death, but lawns are one of the few luxuries Americans are being asked to sacrifice as the world literally burns.

8 (2m 38s):
I think that's true. I mean, yes. The only thing that's really getting restricted for most of us right now is outdoor irrigation. And that doesn't sound like a big deal, but usually that means that it's the first thing in possibly more steps to come as the summer gets hotter. And the rain doesn't come.

9 (2m 55s):
Governor Newsome said that the state could impose mandatory water and a full outdoor watering ban across the state. As soon as September,

10 (3m 3s):
The lack of rainfall is leaving fields. So dry, the crops are dying before they can be harvested. Yeah.

11 (3m 9s):
Farm workers are leaving the region in droves defined sustainable jobs.

0 (3m 13s):
So what are the rules in Los Angeles where you're based?

8 (3m 17s):
Well, it depends on where you live. We're talking about Southern California in general. Some cities aren't feeling it at all because the restrictions are coming from, what's known as the metropolitan water district of Southern California, which is sort of an umbrella district that a lot of local districts like mine fall under. Even if your city does fall under those restrictions, though, your local water district has to curb their water use by 35% and they can choose how to do that. So for one of the strict ones, it actually means if you don't comply, they're going to install a water flow device. So all of a sudden your showers are very unpleasant.

0 (3m 55s):
It sounds like this is creating a system of haves and have nots.

8 (3m 59s):
Yes, but it's not sort of the more traditional system of if you're in a wealthier, whiter neighborhood than you have. And if you are not, you do not. It really just depends on where your city happens to get its water. If it gets more of it from the state water project and the Colorado river, it's problematic. If it happens to sit on a great aquifer, like the city of Downey, which is Southeast of Los Angeles, primarily people of color live there, they're fine. So it's kind of more luck of the draw

0 (4m 34s):
Are people flouting the water restrictions.

8 (4m 37s):
There are some people who are floating the water restrictions. There are threats of warnings and fines if you don't comply. But there are some people who have decided it's worth the fine to keep the lawn green. So that includes this one guy I spoke to Michael Austin, who boasts that his yard is very green and very wet. And he says that he waters it about 10 minutes every day.

12 (4m 58s):
I'd say it's a very unique and fresh mix for Southern California, very green and very wet. I'm going to go before the lawn is they're going to take me away. And this is going to be an empty property before the lawn goes,

0 (5m 9s):
Wow. Michael sounds like he's ready to die for his loss.

8 (5m 13s):
I know it's quite a hill to die on, but

0 (5m 15s):
He wants to die on a very green hill.

8 (5m 17s):
Oh, amen. Yes, he does.

12 (5m 19s):
I like to say a yard is the reflection of who lives here because we are given these portions of land. We own these portions of land. I think that it's our God-given duty to tend it until it, until our time is gone.

0 (5m 30s):
Did he say it's his God-given duty to Ted to his Lord until he dies?

8 (5m 35s):
He did. He also told me that, you know, it's not his fault that the population in Southern California has grown and it's not his fault that the climate is changing. So he shouldn't be the one to have to bear the responsibility for it.

0 (5m 46s):
And surely there are other people who are making the sacrifice, who are committed to having a, you know, godly green lawn, but are transitioning away from it because it's wildly impractical and unsustainable.

8 (6m 0s):
Absolutely. Another person that I spoke to his name is Roger Gray. And he's exactly the kind of person who you would think would make this transition. He is a middle school science teacher. He is a master gardener. He is a certified California naturalist and he a couple years ago ripped up all of his lawn and he replaced it with native plants. So in the two years that he's had his landscape while Michael Lawson is watering it 10 minutes every day, he's watered at six times total in two years, huh?

13 (6m 31s):
The plants in here are mostly all Chaparral or coastal Sage scrub. And a particularly the Chaparral plants tend to throw deep roots looking for water. And so the more water we can put in the soil during the rainy season, the more access they'll have to it. Three, four or five feet down

0 (6m 46s):
The birds of the background. Sound happy. Did it look like a nice garden?

8 (6m 49s):
Oh my gosh. Yes. So if Michael Lawson's was a painting to walk into of beautiful green lush landscaping, his felt like a celebration of nature. I loved being there.

13 (7m 1s):
We don't need to water all the time, water less frequently and more deeply. That's better for the plants. A little sprinkle every day is terrible.

0 (7m 10s):
What about like mega water users? Like, I don't know, golf courses in Southern California, what are they doing right now?

8 (7m 19s):
I was able to speak with a golf course representative. And they said that one of their strategies is to sort of brown the edges to prioritize, keeping the fairway green. So they're not losing business, even though it probably doesn't look as nice. But even if you're not a golfer, like me and golf is not a huge part of your life, cemeteries are. And I spoke to someone named Bruce Lazenby at rose Hills Memorial park in a city right outside of Los Angeles here. And they started using recycled water because they said they couldn't let their lawns turn brown. Hmm.

14 (7m 52s):
People want to come here. They come here to visit their loved ones, do memories or just to be comforted. So I think the park-like environment is what they expect. We can't let this place turn brown.

8 (8m 5s):
Not everybody can afford that kind of infrastructure of getting all of this recycled water to their many, many acres of property. And I went to an old cemetery that falls into that boat. This place was called Lincoln Memorial park, and they don't even have sprinklers. So this is literally a guy during his allocated 20 minutes, twice a week. Who's going around with a hose watering as much as he can in his time period. His name is John Michael Mintz. And he says that people are not happy with the way it's looking. These days.

15 (8m 38s):
People have gone to the department of consumer affairs complaining that the cemetery is dry. If you'd asked me 10 years ago, would you bury femme body here? Well, yeah, it is a beautiful place, but it's gone to sea, but it's going on a just heartbreaking.

0 (9m 9s):
I mean, it sounds like this is our breaking right now for people like Mike and for people visiting the cemetery. And, and certainly for Michael Austin, who's, you know, trying to exercise his God-given duty to water his lawn, but this stands to get a lot worse in the coming years. Now

8 (9m 28s):
We know that it can get worse and federal water officials keep warning us that Colorado river cuts are on the way. And we rely a lot on that down here. And if the drought continues to get worse, these water ordinances have plans in place to cut back more. So the water restrictions in place now are really just the first step.

0 (9m 48s):
Okay. So all told, it sounds like despite this situation in Southern California and this increasingly grim mega drought situation in the American west, from Colorado to Nevada, to Utah, to California, there hasn't really been a shift in philosophy yet, at least where you report in Los Angeles.

8 (10m 10s):
I think that is true for a lot of people. That being said, though, we did face more strict restrictions before and people really did rally around them. And we really did meet our water reduction goals before, and we did stop watering lawns and they did turn brown and we know that Southern Californians can survive that reality. So, yes, I think people are hesitant to recognize that we are heading that way, but we've been there before and we know that we can get out on the other side,

0 (10m 51s):
Kayley Wells, KCRW Los Angeles, but it's not just Los Angeles. The American west is desperately short on water, more on the mega drought in a minute on today, explained,

Land Of The Giants (11m 10s):
And I'm Alex Heath, we're hosting land of the giants, a podcast about the biggest tech companies of our time. This season Metta formerly known as Facebook. It's a company in a particularly controversial and vulnerable moment. Mark Zuckerberg is placing a multi-billion dollar bet towards an imagined metaverse future. Meanwhile, the rest of us are still grappling with what he's already built This season. We're going to talk to the executive steering Meadows, biggest decisions. And you'll hear from some of Metis sharpest critics. It's former employees We'll explore wise. Zuckerberg is taking the company in a bold direction and how Facebook's past will inform its future Land of the giants. The Facebook Mehta disruption from Recode, the verge and the Vox media podcast network. This season is sponsored by Klayvio Subscribe for free wherever you listen and get our first episode on Wednesday, July 13th.

Into It: A Vulture Podcast with Sam Sanders on Apple Podcasts (12m 7s):
Let me tell you two fruits of life. There are no bad Bruno Mars songs, and there are no bad Katy Perry songs. They don't exist. These Are extreme. The thing in, And that is what I do. Okay. I say there are phenomenal Katy Perry songs, but also say they're a terrible game. The worst Katy Perry. So you're wrong. It's good. Hi, I'm Sam Sanders and I'm hosting a new culture podcast. It's called Intuit from vulture in New York magazine each week on the show. We'll get into the pop culture that we just can't stop thinking about like the Chainsmokers song that became a pro-choice Anthem on Tik TOK or why comedy specials got so serious or yeah, honestly, I don't even know how to explain this one. Cause his poop also time travel. What about his saliva Into it? The weekly culture podcast from vulture launching July 28th, subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

20 (13m 14s):
So if you look at the drought map of the United States, it looks like most of the west coast and Southwest are painted in shades of orange to magenta showing the degrees of deepening drought.

0 (13m 26s):
This is Rachel Becker. She reports on water at Cal matters

20 (13m 31s):
At the beginning of July 39 states. We're seeing moderate drought or worse. That means 118 million people in the U S whose homes and yards and jobs and crops are parched. Right now you can see suave of severe extreme, or even exceptional drought, which is the most dire drug category kind of creeping its way across the country from California and Oregon to Nevada

21 (13m 55s):
Lawmakers declaring a war on useless grass in an effort to conserve water in

20 (14m 0s):
Utah and a vanishing great salt lake.

22 (14m 3s):
The great salt lake in Utah is shrinking and the state could face an environmental nuclear bomb.

20 (14m 9s):
Arizona, New Mexico, Texas

23 (14m 11s):
Officials in Texas are hoping the power grid can hold as they forecast today to be an all-time high for

20 (14m 18s):
We're talking widespread crop losses, water emergencies, because of supply shortages from reservoirs and streams and Wells. So drought incident far and wide,

0 (14m 29s):
And how long has this current drought been going on?

20 (14m 33s):
It depends on where you're looking and how you count it. Right. There was this great paper that just came out from perk Williams lab at UCLA that looked at mega droughts in Southwest north America,

0 (14m 44s):
Mega droughts,

20 (14m 45s):
Mega droughts. So a mega drought is about as bad as it sounds is an exceptionally long-lasting severe drought, worse than any we've seen in 20th century, Western north America. And so this paper looked all the way through most of Oregon, Idaho, Wyoming, as well as down through Southwest Mexico, looking at average soil moisture across the Southwest region. William's team found that 2000 to 2021 was the driest 22 year period in the past 1200 years. Wow. They also reported that human caused climate change has made things worse. The Williams lab that used climate models to estimate that about 40% of the Western mega drought severity is coming from human caused climate change and 60% to what he said, an email is regular old bad luck, which can be shaped by a number of things, including temperatures on the tropical Pacific ocean.

20 (15m 41s):
Huh. But you know, what is clear is that climate change drives temperatures higher. The atmosphere gets thirsty or things dry out, even more in California, climate scientist, Daniel Swain at UCLA and others have shown that we're seeing a really big shift in precipitation, including a shorter sharper Rainier season, which we saw this year.

24 (16m 3s):
You know, the main reason why droughts are getting worse, and this is true across much of the Western us. And in fact, a lot of places on earth where droughts are in fact, getting worse is the rising temperatures themselves, which increased the evaporative demand of the atmosphere, meaning that essentially it increases the propensity of the atmosphere to act as a giant sponge extracting more and more water out of the landscape.

0 (16m 26s):
We called up Daniel Swain at UCLA to ask about their shifts.

24 (16m 30s):
So unless you're getting a lot more precipitation to counteract that you're getting much drier hydrologic conditions, much drier vegetation,

0 (16m 38s):
Daniel calls this precipitation whiplash.

24 (16m 44s):
So you're getting wet or wet, but also dryer dries, but in practice that doesn't really even out, it does not come out in the wash, as you might say. So there, there really is a difference between getting all of your precipitation in these increasingly short, but sharp bursts and having it more evenly distributed throughout a longer period of time.

20 (17m 6s):
But you know, we've got a pretty spectacular atmospheric river in October, but then from January through March, there was pretty much nothing in terms of meaningful storms,

24 (17m 16s):
Because the more intense it is and the shorter bursts you have, the more time in between those bursts you have for evaporation. And so the drier the soil gets and the less of that water actually soaks into the ground because it's falling so intensely that much of it just runs off immediately into rivers, lakes and streams.

0 (17m 40s):
Where else does the American west get its water from other than rain,

20 (17m 45s):
About 25 million people rely on lake Mead, which is mostly supplied by the Colorado river and delivers water to Arizona, California, Nevada and conditions are pretty dire. There

25 (17m 58s):
It is the primary source of water here. And it has become the incredible shrinking river.

20 (18m 3s):
The link is so low that a body in a barrel and a world war II era Linden craft have risen from the water,

23 (18m 10s):
Right?

21 (18m 10s):
But it begs the question how many more bodies will be found now that the lake is at record low

20 (18m 17s):
And along with lake Powell, these massive reservoirs are at historically low levels right now, but what our supplies really vary even within states in California, we rely on this pretty remarkable source of water in our snow pack, which is sort of a reservoir for spring and summer as the snow melts and flows into our storage.

26 (18m 38s):
Think of the snowpack as a frozen reservoir, the state says it's responsible for about 30% of California's water, including drinking water.

20 (18m 47s):
We also have parts of the state that relied heavily or exclusively on groundwater, which sees some pretty serious depletion during trout when surface water supplies dry up and people start pumping more.

23 (18m 59s):
When this much water is pumped out of the aquifer below ground, the clay between the pockets of water collapses and the ground starts to deflate like a leaky air mattress. The sinking is buckling the walls of irrigation canals, damaging pipes, creating giant sinkholes and cracking homes.

0 (19m 17s):
When you're talking about things like lake Powell or lake Mead or the Colorado river, who's in charge who dictates, who gets how much water?

20 (19m 26s):
Yeah. That's the million dollar question, right? Who controls the water? And it'll vary depending on the type of water to whether we're talking rivers, streams, groundwater, federally managed, water, state, and water. It's, it's a mess. So looking at the west, we've got decades, even centuries, old agreements and court decisions that govern the use and the management of the Colorado river in California, we've got the state managed state water project that pipes water from reservoirs south of federally managed central valley projects. And then we've got, you know, rivers and streams that are governed by this sort of arcane and incredibly complex system of water rates that go back to the gold rush when it was essentially finder's keepers when it came to water.

0 (20m 10s):
Hm. And how are these arcane laws doing now that we're seeing the most extreme conditions we've seen? And it sounds like over a millennium

20 (20m 22s):
We're seeing them really put to the test this year, parts of California in the Sacramento valley have really typically been immune to drought because of this Byzantine water rights system. And because of a deal, they cut with the federal government, you know, decades ago. And because of that, they typically can't be cut by more than a quarter when it comes to their water supply. So even during the most dire of droughts, there are supply is pretty good, but this year they've been cut 82% or more. And I spoke with one rancher who bought this beautiful piece of land with a view of Mount Shasta.

20 (21m 3s):
And he bought it because it had a water supply that was virtually guaranteed because of this deal. It had never seen cuts to its water supply more than a quarter. And this year, the first time ever, it's not getting any water. I mean, we could see even a steeper curtailments of growers and cities that pumped directly from rivers and streams and already many I've seen cuts really severe cuts this year. So it could be even worse next year, which means, you know, more crop fallowing, which means a steeper conservation orders in cities and towns earlier deeper curtailments for those relying on river water.

20 (21m 45s):
I mean, it's getting hotter, right? Heat waves are getting worse. The drives are getting drier. The west are becoming more extreme. And you know, the west as a region is ratifying and it's this combination of human activity and climate change. And also nature. I was talking to a climate scientist, Daniel Swain at UCLA though. And he said he doesn't like the phrase, the new normal, and I'm quoting him because it suggests we provide at some new stable state.

24 (22m 14s):
We have at least a few more decades of significant warming and significant increases in extreme weather events and significant changes in precipitation patterns and the occurrence of drought in different regions. And we've seen an example of this, you know, as recently as this past week where London unprecedented record-breaking temperatures, that would have been unforeseeable as recently as a couple of years ago, you know, there are, are fires burning structures in the city of London this week. And that's not something that we had really ever seen before.

27 (22m 45s):
If you told me I was in Southern California with wildfires by the highway, bone, dry vegetation and temps hitting a hundred degrees, I might believe you, but this, this is London and people are shocked.

20 (22m 58s):
So the new normal is really a moving target depending on continued fossil fuel use

0 (23m 5s):
Reading about this story and having some personal experience with like a mom who loves to water her lawn in Los Angeles. I just feel like the, the biggest issue here outside of ranchers who no longer have the water they thought they were promised is that people moved out west and were promised a way of life that was entirely unsustainable. And that idea is just hard to wrap your head around that. My way of life is unsustainable. When you talk to the smartest people in this field, what do they say about the sort of sea change in thinking that needs to occur in a moment like this?

20 (23m 42s):
I think one of the sources of, I don't know if want to say hope, but you know, sources that there are ways to, to conserve water, which is only one part of this equation, but is that after the last drought, I remember reporting in the spring of 2021, when this drought was really taking off that at that point count were still using about 16% less water than in 2013 when the last drought was getting going.

0 (24m 11s):
So did those regulations that governor Jerry Brown put in place the last time California had a drought, let's say, did they work?

20 (24m 18s):
The mandatory call for water conservation did work. So we saw that after that order a savings from June, 2015 to February, 2016, we're about 24% compared to those same months in 2013. So California stepped up and they conserved some of those conservation gains stuck around too. And some of that was because of really fundamental changes to things that last like fixtures, replacing water, gusting toilets, changing to landscaping and irrigation that was motivated and funded by mandates and incentives during the last drought. And so it does show that California's water use can change, you know, did it change enough?

20 (25m 2s):
Probably not, but it did change. And talking to folks, you know, they point to recycled water projects. They talk about building gray, water and water we use into planning. So it does seem like there are ways to improve California's water situation. It may take, you know, really kind of re-imagining what California looks like beyond the kind of endless stretches of turf, but it's possible to see that change.

0 (25m 33s):
Rachel Becker, she's a reporter with Cal matters. You also heard from UCLA climate scientists, Daniel Swain go Bruins and Kaylee Wells from KCRW. Our show today was produced by Abishai artsy. He had help from Matthew Colette, Laura Bullard and Paul mousey it's today explained stay cool.