0 (0s):
10 years ago in the summer of 2013, blurred lines was everywhere.

1 (6s):
Everybody get a,

0 (8s):
And eventually it made its way to court for sounding too much like a Marvin Gaye song called, got to Give It Up. The Verdict in that court case had huge implications for the music industry and it's the reason Ed Sheeran was just in court because this when your legs don't work

1 (28s):
Like they used to

0 (29s):
Before, kind of sorta sounded a bit too much like this.

1 (33s):
I've been really

0 (36s):
Coming up on today explain the lasting legacy of a song that just refuses to go away.

Apple Business Connect (1m 1s):
This episode is supported by Apple Business Connect. It's a free tool that allows businesses to take control of how they're seen across Apple Maps, messages, wallet, Siri and other apps. Plus you can access insights that help you learn how customers find your business and how to optimize your reach. Do all this and more from your browser or phone with Apple Business Connect, you can go to apple.com/business/connect to learn more.

0 (1m 33s):
There's this new show out all about an all powerful AI that has taken over the world, but it's not evil.

2 (1m 41s):
It's actually very nice.

3 (1m 43s):
Every time we see a story about ai, it only has one idea and that is to destroy humanity. We felt like the idea that was perhaps a little bit even more frightening was what if it just wanted to make us happy?

2 (1m 58s):
Damon Lindelof and Tara Hernandez on their series, Mrs. Davis, this week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast

1 (2m 13s):
Today.

0 (2m 14s):
Explain Sean Ramas firm here with Jason Green, contributing writer at Pitchfork who's recently written about blurred lines and thinking out loud and where the two songs intersect. We're gonna start with blurred lines because,

4 (2m 28s):
Well, because unlike I would say 99% of the other number one pop hits from 2013, blurred Lions has had an infernal afterlife that has extended so far past the moment it was on the charts. It is a singular phenomenon for so many reasons, and what's remarkable is that all of the reasons it has lingered in our cultural imagination are not good ones.

0 (2m 53s):
The story of Blurred Lines begins with Robin Thick son of the actor Alan Bonafide Nepo baby.

4 (3m 0s):
I mean he's like a factory preset Nepo baby. Absolutely, a hundred percent. Dude, back

5 (3m 6s):
In 1991, he even wrote a song for his dad's beloved sitcom Growing Pains.

6 (3m 10s):
Robin has been into music in a big way for a couple of years, loves music, especially rap music.

1 (3m 20s):
Happy smiling Robin. You're

4 (3m 22s):
Getting paid. But what's funny too is to look back because no one really thought of Robin Thick this way when he first pops up in the culture. If you were checking out, you know, video blocks like on countdown shows around then you would've seen this scruffy looking guy who had at the time, it's crazy to look at now. He had long hair. He either was or was pretending to be for the sake of a video, a bike messenger, but he's in a video around that time. For this one I Get You Alone song It's, it Samples the Fifth of Beethoven and he's riding his bike. He looks like a total like Cher Burnout dude from like a Judd Appel comedy. Only

7 (3m 56s):
Reason I started selling pot is so I could put my BU in a nice retirement.

4 (3m 60s):
Oh yeah, she must be proud of you. And the song is kind of like a low-key hit a sleeper for sure, but it establishes him as like a neo soul, blue-eyed soul type dude in the sort of second string Justin Timberlake vibe.

8 (4m 18s):
Cause you talk pretty, cause you make,

4 (4m 23s):
He's got like a passively soulful voice and his voice is elastic enough, it's got a little bit of grain to it. So he, he's not completely smooth, but he is pretty smooth and he works pretty well in a variety of contexts. And what he does is he develops kind of like a following in the rap community. And so for a while this dude was kind of an underdog. Music journalists loved him. He was the pop star that they thought should be bigger than he was. And what happens is that in 2013 he works with Pharrell on what is sort of positioned as hopefully a big breakout.

1 (5m 4s):
Everybody get

4 (5m 5s):
Up and kind of a goofy on the surface, at least video it debuts in March of 2013 and doesn't set the world on fire, but people like it.

9 (5m 19s):
Hey, thank you so much for coming to do this. Thank you. I just love that. Well, everyone loves this song. It's just

4 (5m 25s):
People were like, yay, this song is great. Finally a fun good pop song, you know, and people were really rooting for him for a short time there.

0 (5m 37s):
And as you might recall, dear Listener, people eventually stopped rooting for this song.

4 (5m 42s):
Well that's because of the first fateful incident in like the Blurred Line story, which is that a week after the video debuts Robin TH's team has decided that they're going to release the unrated version of this video. It was directed by this woman, Diane Martel, who filmed a version of this video with all three of the supermodels topless I knew You are. And they put this on YouTube specifically because they know it violates the community standards and they're looking to generate some noise. They want a controversy to attach to this song and it instantly works. Any press is good press. Any press is good press at this point in the story's timeline, right?

4 (6m 22s):
They use this as fuel. It is banned instantly. You know, Robin Thick and Pharrell get to go on then sort of nascent Twitter platform and complain about their too hot for YouTube video being taken down and they're like, it's still on vivo and pointing people towards it. And this sort of thing has the exact effect they hoped it would at this point. They're still super in control of this song's narrative. The song shoots up like overnight nearly the charts. It's not number one yet, but suddenly it goes from this sort of thing lurking in the bottom half of the charts to a big rising song. Everybody Get Up. What happens essentially is that the song hits number one and then there's a certain level of success that starts to turn into a curse.

4 (7m 8s):
Tricia Romano writes a piece for The Daily Beast, and that is headlined blurred lines. The song of the summer is kind of rapey and that is the first time this word which just sliced right through everyone's minds. You could not read a word like that, especially in boldface typing a headline and look at that video the same way ever again. Hmm. It's not just the visuals. Tricia points out, it's not just the video set up, it's also the song. The song on its own is called Blurred Lines. And the lines that are being blurred are the lines of consent. And what Robin Thick is singing in his, you know, goofy falsetto is I know you want it.

4 (7m 53s):
And then paired with the video really summons some pretty dark ideas about what we think as a culture consent looks like. The

10 (8m 2s):
Majority of the song has the r and b singer murmuring. I know you want it over and over into a girl's ear, call me a cynic. But that phrase does not exactly encompass the notion of consent and sexual activity. Seriously, this song is disgusting.

4 (8m 14s):
And that's where this first link gets established between the song's message and its presentation. It generates the first true controversy and backlash that the people who created the song did not wish for, did not anticipate and did not know what to do with. Then here is where like in like a Greek tragedy or some like, you know, grand operatic sort of climax. We have this other character who comes into this storyline like the angel of death

1 (8m 49s):
Twerking now Twerk, twerk, twerking, now twerking. Now

4 (8m 54s):
Miley Cyrus is looking to get rid of her mouseketeer image. And so then we have the VMAs, the fateful night of the VMAs when Miley Cyrus jumps out of a teddy bear and grinds on it and sticks her tongue out to the side in what is now this weirdly iconic moment. And all she's doing is this, you know, this dance that's like, it's, it's long been a part of like bounce music culture in New Orleans. It is not new, but it's new to the largely white audience.

0 (9m 23s):
She was twerking on Maine,

4 (9m 25s):
She was twerking on Maine before anyone knew what any of those three words meant, you know? Then Robin Thick comes out after she finishes her performance and she's just made this really uncomfortable mess and there's a lot of cutaway shots to pop stars, Rihanna, Drake looking deeply uncomfortable during Miley's performance, right? And then here comes Robin thick to perform blurred lines. And the moment in which they sort of joined an eternity was when she bends over in front of him wearing the foam finger, which is a prop from the blurred lines video. And she rubs it on herself, on her crotch. She bends over and twerks in front of Robin thick. And everyone again goes completely nuts.

1 (10m 14s):
Yes, you're,

4 (10m 16s):
But the person who really suffers is Robin Sick,

0 (10m 21s):
Which is crazy cuz the performance is much more Miley oriented. But, but this is bad news for Robin thick

4 (10m 31s):
And it's, it's a complicated thing, right? There has been like several weeks of open discussion now about the predatory dynamics of this man standing behind, you know, barely clothed or half nude women who are half his age. And here he is being grinded on by a woman who is very naked or nearly naked half his age, and then this photo surfaces from the after party of that exact night. I mean, I couldn't make this up again. It's like he's not doing like a Ron Burgundy, bit like he is Ron Burgundy.

12 (11m 4s):
You have an absolutely breathtaking hiney. I mean that thing's good,

4 (11m 12s):
You know, he's about to get hit by this train that he doesn't even understand, right? He has his hand resting on the behind of this blonde woman. This happened at the v m a's after party and you know, Paula Patton leaves him and the mass consensus is finally reached. He's done, he's officially toxic. And now this critique becomes nationwide and international.

13 (11m 40s):
You know, I don't think people got it out here, you know, in, in those positions of power. I think the kids get it and I think, you know, un unfortunately, the people that that don't understand the song are the ones that have the power to ban it. So, you know, I just have to to deal with that. But,

4 (11m 55s):
And then protestors and survivors of sexual violence and abuse start protesting and they're holding up placards that are basically referencing the song's lyrics. Hmm. It's serious now. It's very serious now it's dead serious. And it's the kind of thing that once it's turned that corner, you can never look at it again as the song It Once was, it is now an A toxic song. And then in a sort of perfect postscript to Robin TH's downfall, Miley Cyrus debuts for second single in the immediate aftermath of the V M A S controversy. And it's a song called Wrecking Ball

1 (12m 31s):
I

4 (12m 36s):
And guess which song ends up number one? It's an opera about the 2000 tens, man. I mean, whether you're talking about issues around, you know, what would become the Me Too revolution, right? About predatory dynamics in the entertainment industry, about unexamined intersections of race and class. It's just a horribly perfect encapsulation of all of these things.

0 (13m 15s):
Robin, thick Pharrell and Blurred lines head to court and then Ed Sheeran does two. When we're back on today, explain.

1 (13m 36s):
Hey

14 (13m 36s):
Folks, I'm Heather Cox Richardson.

15 (13m 39s):
And I'm Joanne Freeman.

14 (13m 40s):
We're the hosts of now and then a podcast from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network that looks to the American past to make sense of our current political and cultural climate.

15 (13m 51s):
Recently we've traced the tangled history of the New York County District Attorney's office, the American cultural fascination with UFOs and our national love hate relationship with the banking industry.

14 (14m 2s):
Tune in each Wednesday as we make sense of the headlines and the long road to this crucial moment for democracy.

15 (14m 9s):
Listen for free wherever you get your podcasts,

16 (14m 15s):
You're married but you're not in love and I'm in love with you. And that is what Microsoft's AI powered chatbot recently wrote to the New York Times tech columnist Kevin Russ. It made Kevin feel torn.

17 (14m 31s):
One part of me is kind of my rational reporter brain part, and that part goes, what I am talking to here is not some kind of mystical, sentient, alien intelligence. It is a computer. But then there's this other part of me that just felt like amazed and thrilled and a little bit scared, maybe more than a little bit scared

16 (14m 56s):
Because imagine the consequences of tech that's convincingly intelligent even to a tech reporter. I'm Peter Kafka, the host of Recode Media. In the final episode of our special series on ai, we look at the giant ambitions and enormous concerns people have about the very same tech. Subscribe to Recode Media to listen now

0 (15m 26s):
Today, explained his back with Jason Green from Pitchfork, who's gonna tell us how blurred lines ended up on trial and how that led to Ed Sheeran and thinking out loud landing in court too. We gotta go back to October, 2013. The

4 (15m 40s):
Song is no longer number one, right? But it's generated untold millions in revenue. Yeah, an insane amount of money for everyone involved for Pharrell, who is the song's writer for Robin Thick, you know, for every person involved. And everyone acknowledged this similarity this song had from the get-go, right? When people still loved blurred lines before it was number one when it was first reported, I would say that half of the people who reported in the song erroneously called it a sample of Marvin Gay's got to give it up. Mm. Because the groove of the song on cowbell with electric piano and syncopated bass with a lot of open space is really, really in reminiscent of that song in a way that feels at least intentional.

4 (16m 21s):
And it's compounded by the fact that when they go into record this composition, Pharrell punches up the background with these sort of soft little yelps and exclamations that are seemingly very intentionally designed to evoke memories of the dinner room chatter That's sort of going on behind. Got to give it up, right? It seems like it's really clear as an homage, but it's not a sample, right? They did not go to the original recording, he did not like isolate a piece of the audio and flip it cuz that would require explicitly going to the Marvin Gay Estate for permission. It would require them paying a fee to them. They do something complicated that's not quite sample, not quite interpolation. And this had become very popular, especially as sample fees got astronomically expensive, is that you want to siphon off a song's vibe, you know?

4 (17m 11s):
And you want to do it in a way that gives you some plausible legal deniability. And so you recreate a vibe.

0 (17m 26s):
But the Marvin Gay Estate sues Pharrell and Robin Thick not for recreating a vibe, but for copyright infringement.

18 (17m 33s):
Did Robin Thick Pharrell and ti copy elements from Marvin Gay's hit, gotta Give it up or not? Well, two of Marvin Gaye's kids say Yes.

4 (17m 42s):
I think at this point everyone involved at least thought, well this lawsuit's frivolous. This is at least one thing that's gonna blow over because on paper, the notes on the sheet music of blurred lines don't have the same rhythms as God to give it up. They don't have the same melody as God to give it up or the same chords as God to give it up. They're not played in the same sequence as God to give it up. And they're not even in the same key as God to give it up. Hmm. Right? You lay that out and it sounds like, well, how could anyone truly expect to win a court case? Particularly because when the court case begins, the judge agrees that they're only gonna think about copyright as the notes on the page. That's the only thing that they say is being examined.

4 (18m 22s):
Unfortunately for Robin Thick and Pharrell Williams, it's got a jury in the room, people with ears who don't necessarily have a musicology degree. Yeah. And don't haven't spent the last, you know, 20 years of their lives living in a world where they're debating between, you know, the master royalty rates. They don't know what any of this stuff means. What they know is that this song sounds a hell of a lot like this other song. And these people are insisting it's not. And Pharrell very memorably says, you can't copyright a feeling. Hmm. But he loses outta

19 (18m 53s):
That breaking headline late today from Los Angeles, a verdict tonight in the Blurred lines case, a jury decide in the case in favor of Marvin Gaye's children and awarding them $7.3 million saying Robin Thick and Pharrell borrowed from that song. And

4 (19m 8s):
People are so freaked out in the music industry about the implications of what this means for their business, for minting and creating new hits that they get like a amicus brief with hundreds of people signing it, alleging that this would be disastrous for the ecology of the, you know, the pop music world

0 (19m 26s):
And, and this is how poor Ed Sheeran ends up in court as well. And instead of blurred lines and gotta give it up, it's, it's thinking out loud and let's get it on. It's the same artist. It's Marvin Gaye's Estate again or, or the songwriter's estate.

4 (19m 41s):
Absolutely incredibly, it's a complete redux, right? I mean, there's a deep irony to the fact that Ed Sheeran, whose music has been criticized relentlessly and dragged through the courts. So he's been hit both legally and by, you know, commentators for how derivative his music is of other people's music. Even his court case is a complete redo of the Blurred lines court case. It's like he covered blurred lines as an actual lawsuit. And it comes down to the same kind of questions that blurred lines came down to, which is sort of like the court progression is very similar.

20 (20m 16s):
I'm starting out with thinking out loud, just one bar of it and then going to one bar of let's get it on and then alternating between them. And the verse

1 (20m 42s):
Hard I'm thinking,

4 (21m 1s):
But how many core progressions can you really say are unique? And this gets into a really rich and long tangle legal history of this exact same problem, right? I mean, not only are there a limited number of chord progressions period, but there's an even smaller number that pop songwriters tend to use because we all recognize them and they fit in our brains. They feel familiar. But really, you know, there's a reason why if you hand someone an acoustic guitar and teach them like five open chords, they can play some version of nearly every pop song ever written. And then in this case, they have concert footage that they can submit as evidence in which Ed Sheeran is on stage with his guitar alternating in front of the crowd between thinking out loud and let's get it on.

0 (22m 6s):
Big Mistake.

4 (22m 7s):
He's clearly aware that this song exists in direct conversation, right? With Let's Get It On. But is he doing something illegal? And that's really what it comes down to. But basically he rest stages the blurred lines lawsuit. But he gets to win and he wins.

21 (22m 22s):
The singer-songwriter won a major court victory yesterday after a long legal battle over one of his most popular songs. A federal jury decided that Sharon did not steal key elements of Marvin Gay's 1973 song. Let's get it on to create his Grammy winning hit. Thinking out loud,

4 (22m 38s):
He comes out sort of saying, I'm really relieved, but I'm incredibly frustrated that this happened.

22 (22m 44s):
Lawsuits are not a pleasant experience and I hope with this ruling it means in the future, baseless claims like this can be avoided. This really does have to end.

4 (22m 52s):
So it's like a flip side of what Pharrell said when he lost, he came out and said, this is really disheartening. I respect the courts, but this is gonna stifle creativity, right? Ed Shearing gets to walk out and sort of breathe a sigh relief and wipe his brow and say, okay, I'm going back to work.

22 (23m 4s):
Hopefully we can all get back to writing songs rather than having to prove that we can write them.

0 (23m 9s):
How does Ed Wynn where, where Robin and Pharrell lust,

4 (23m 11s):
It looks to me like there's a couple things going on and one of them is that every jury is obviously very different and it's very much a luck of the draw, right? You don't know which 12 people you're gonna get or what they're bringing to it. Plus,

0 (23m 22s):
Ed Sheeran came out and said right before the verdict that he would quit music if he was found guilty.

23 (23m 27s):
The singer saying his music career may slow down if he's found liable telling the court if that happens, I'm done adding. To have someone come in and say, we don't believe you. You must have stole it. I find insulting.

4 (23m 39s):
I mean, you know, does he have Ed Sheeran super fans in the jury or are they thinking that's amazing? One of the reasons I think blurred lines really struck listeners as being more directly derivative than Ed Sheeran's thinking out Loud does comes down to a sort of, almost a backhanded compliment to how good Pharrell is in the studio at Evoking Vibes. Because what he did is, even though the chord progression of God to give it up and blurred lines are more dissimilar than thinking out loud is to let's get it on right. They're different on paper, they're different. But what Pharrell is good at is creating a vibe.

4 (24m 19s):
And that's his big quote when he's in court. He says, you can't copyright a vibe, but a vibe is very convincing. And what he did with the background vocals on blurred lines where he inserted these little soft yelps that evoke the dinner conversation background have got to give it up. I think it spoke to the jury's lizard brain and made it really hard for them in a way that Ed Sheeran's music, which is perfectly functional, and he's got a great command of pop language, he's got a great command of like how to hit the beats of like a modern sort of singer songwriter guitar pop song. He doesn't work magic in the studio and his music doesn't communicate on that sort of vibey level.

4 (24m 59s):
And I honestly think that if he'd been slightly more evocative with his production choices, he might have found himself in more hot water than he did.

1 (25m 7s):
Hey, everybody, get a,

0 (25m 9s):
Jason Green is a contributing writer at Pitchfork. You can read his big long piece on blurred lines and a shorter one on the Thinking out loud legal drama@pitchfork.com. The big takeaway, good

4 (25m 22s):
Blurred lines are still ruining pop music as we speak

1 (25m 25s):
10

4 (25m 25s):
Years on. That's an impressive legacy.

0 (25m 27s):
But Jason has a workaround for you. If you love the vibe,

4 (25m 30s):
I have a solution. Listen to Word Crimes by Weird Elliot.

1 (25m 37s):
I

0 (25m 37s):
Don't think I know it.

4 (25m 38s):
It's a song about grammar. It's his, it's his parody of blurred lines and it, it's a rant about using improper grammar.

1 (25m 45s):
Okay, now here's the try to educate.

4 (25m 53s):
If you want to hear that cow bell again, but you know, weird hell's there for you.

0 (25m 57s):
Or just listen to Marvin Gay or

4 (25m 59s):
Just listen to Marvin Gay. There you go.

0 (26m 4s):
Our show today was produced by Haddi Ma Wadi. It was edited by Amina Aldi fact checked by Laura Bullard and Matthew Collette and mixed by Paul Robert Moundy. This is today explained.