0 (1s):
In June of last year, El Salvador did something no other country had ever done before the country announced it would adopt Bitcoin as a form of national currency.

1 (12s):
I will send to Congress a bill that will make Bitcoin illegal tender in El Salvador.

0 (16s):
The country's president naive Kelly claimed crypto would create jobs, attract investment and make financial services more accessible to people in a country where 70% of the population didn't have a bank account. Six months into this experiment, Bitcoin nation is not looking so hot.

2 (35s):
Having spent months investigating what this actually looks like on the ground. What we found is that the project is really a smokescreen.

0 (42s):
What happens when a country adopts crypto as a national currency? I'm Sean Ramez for him. That is a head on today. Explain

SeedInvest (60s):
This podcast is brought to you by seed invest seed. Invest helps make startup fundraising efficient by allowing founders to plug into a network of over 640,000 investors. No matter your industry or vertical, if you're a startup founder, thinking about your next round of funding seed invest provides the platform, tools and expertise. You need to take your growth to the next level. Visit seed invest.com/raise to get started or refer a founder. Who's building big things. That's seed invest.com/r a I S E.

5 (1m 39s):
Want to tip better call Saul Newsday calls it the best show on TV. It's incredible. Raves rolling stones. Spectacular says the ringer. Perfect hails, vanity fair. Don't miss the final season of once again, the best show on TV that one's from TV guide, better call Saul. The special two episode premiere is April 18th on AMC and AMC plus Nita boost, better call Saul

0 (2m 16s):
At this point, it's still a little surprising. Any country would try to make Bitcoin a form of national currency.

2 (2m 22s):
Yeah, so contrary to its name, cryptocurrency generally does not function very well as a currency.

0 (2m 28s):
Leo shorts covers crypto for rest of world. It's a tech news website,

2 (2m 34s):
Expensive to send it's slow to send. It takes a lot of technical expertise. United States doesn't necessarily function as the best case study for cryptocurrency. The us dollar is relatively stable. There's not necessarily a reason why people would need an alternative. And for that reason, cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin usually function as a vehicle for speculation,

0 (2m 54s):
But it turns out for a country like El Salvador. This might make sense

2 (2m 59s):
In El the country runs on the U S dollar and it also relies very heavily on remittances. So 20% of the GDP comes from remittances from abroad

9 (3m 10s):
Low-income groups in particular, rely on family members, working abroad to send money home. This often involves significant fees and time.

2 (3m 19s):
And because of that, you start to have reasons why maybe it would make sense to adopt Bitcoin as legal tender, or to try different types of experiments around cryptocurrency. Then of course, you have this dynamic that El Salvador is a country that's largely determined by narratives of gang violence and of immigration out of the country.

10 (3m 39s):
One of the most dangerous countries on earth, a place where criminal gangs control entire neighborhoods and these gangs from El Salvador are now operating in nearly every corner of America.

2 (3m 49s):
So this is an opportunity for the country to really reframe its narrative and maybe attract investment from outside the country.

0 (3m 55s):
Leo spent months following El Salvador's big Bitcoin experiment with his colleague, Anna Kat Brigida. We asked him to tell us where it began.

2 (4m 5s):
So Bitcoin in El Salvador starts on a beach. It's known as Bitcoin beach internationally. It's gotten a lot of coverage over the past few years.

11 (4m 15s):
The place where Bitcoin has seen perhaps the widest adoption is not a big city, but actually a sleepy beach town in El Salvador.

2 (4m 23s):
It's this little town on the Pacific coast called <inaudible> a few years ago and evangelical surfer from the United States named Mike Peterson moved down there and partnered with a local named Jorge Halon Suela to create this circular economy around Bitcoin. After Peterson received a large anonymous donation in Bitcoin, from someone in his church.

12 (4m 44s):
I came back with this ludicrous idea that we were going to, you know, start a Bitcoin circular economy on the coast and El Salvador, and that we were going to start injecting it in the community in different ways through our programs. And we'd bring all these businesses on board and we would, you know, kind of demonstrate how it could impact the lives of people that have been locked out of the banking system.

2 (5m 6s):
What they wanted to do was see in this small town, if they started seeding Bitcoin to the community, if people could use it to buy groceries, to buy food, if it could really serve as a replacement to the dollar, If you look at the population of El Salvador, 70% of the population is unbanked. That means you're going to have fairly low trust when it comes to financial technology tools. What they want to do was actually build a digital wallet, which you can think of as an alternative to save Venmo or PayPal that would allow you to send Bitcoin back and forth to people as easily as you would be sending dollars or any other currency. That was the main emphasis of the project there.

2 (5m 47s):
And because it's such a small population that obviously was a little more effective and easier to pull off at the same time, even in this place that has been with Bitcoin for a few years, it hasn't really served as a substitution for day-to-day transactions. It's mainly used by tourists coming in from outside the country who want to get that photo op of buying a pupusa or a coconut using Bitcoin.

13 (6m 12s):
Welcome everyone. We made it to El Dante El Salvador.

14 (6m 16s):
Good morning, and welcome to <inaudible> AKA Bitcoin beach.

13 (6m 20s):
You might be thinking, what the heck are you doing in El Salvador? And the answer is Bitcoin. Okay.

15 (6m 26s):
Making some kind of food over here. Now it says this place takes pick points. So we're gonna, we're gonna figure out if that's actually the case. Apparently they take quick point,

14 (6m 33s):
Literally just a beach stool, someone with a coconut and like it just paid to their mobile phone with Bitcoin.

0 (6m 45s):
So how does this go from Bitcoin beach to all of El Salvador?

2 (6m 48s):
Mike Peterson wanted to get the blessing of the president of El Salvador who's night, boot Kelly.

1 (6m 53s):
I mean, it was Salvador has not be, has not been the, the country. That's, that's recognized to be the first in innovation, but, but why not this time?

2 (7m 5s):
A lot of the story of Bitcoin El Salvador begins and ends with boot Kelly. Who's this larger than life figure who a lot of people would call a wannabe dictator since assuming power a few years ago, boot Kelly has engaged in a lot of autocratic behavior

18 (7m 21s):
To other news. Now, El Salvador's new legislative assembly voted Saturday to dismiss top Supreme court judges hostile to populous president naive book heli

2 (7m 31s):
From having military displays in the legislative branch to removing top judges,

18 (7m 38s):
Us official square decides the move and warranty. It could harm relations with Washington.

2 (7m 43s):
A lot of this is buoyed by the fact that he does have a massive approval rating. Upwards of 85% is often the estimate from our understanding what happened when Peterson introduced the project to boot Kelly, his boot Kelly got a light bulb of an idea above his head that Bitcoin could serve as this interesting project for El Salvador to again, really reframe this narrative around the country, which had been more determined by gang violence and by immigration.

1 (8m 11s):
I think having baker as legal tender, even though nobody has done it before, it was a no brainer.

0 (8m 17s):
It's funny to hear that this sort of strong man president quasi dictator would get super into Bitcoin because isn't it kind of like inherently antigovernment crypto. Isn't that the idea?

2 (8m 33s):
So this is the core tension, which is that cryptocurrency and Bitcoin started as this really idealized vision of a decentralized currency,

19 (8m 42s):
Whether they know it or not, people who buy Bitcoin are strengthening a tool for protecting human rights.

2 (8m 46s):
So a currency that didn't rely on any institutions like banks or governments,

19 (8m 52s):
Payment processing is done not by a regulated company like visa or MasterCard, but by a decentralized global software network,

2 (8m 58s):
The storage is obviously when you have a wannabe dictator, who's implementing Bitcoin in a country, you start to have a lot of contradictions. And I think within the Bitcoin and the crypto community, this is something that some people acknowledge. It's something that a lot of people also whitewash a lot of people in the, in the crypto community. See the fact that a president on the world stage is adopting Bitcoin and they see this really as the first domino to fall in the, in the crypto revolution.

0 (9m 25s):
So when does it become official? What does that look like? Does he just flip a switch and all of a sudden the country's on Bitcoin?

2 (9m 31s):
Yeah. So in June he announced the intention of the country to adopt Bitcoin as legal tender,

9 (9m 37s):
El Salvador is president pick the perfect place to unveil his country's crypto plans. The Bitcoin trade show in Miami president naive book Kayla's prerecorded video message was created, especially for the trade fair and was well-received.

1 (9m 52s):
I will send to Congress a bill that will make Bitcoin illegal tender in El Salvador.

2 (9m 57s):
So the irony of him introducing the project in Miami in English is that you already sort of see the intention that this is not really a project for El Salvador. It's a project for him in the outside world. So I'm not really sure what the reaction was from everyday Salvadorians in June, when he first announced the project

21 (10m 18s):
Lawmakers in El Salvador, broke into applause after voting to approve a Bitcoin as legal tender on Wednesday,

2 (10m 26s):
Of course, because he has a lot of support and power and the government they're able to get the law passed pretty quickly and then it rolls out in September. So just a few months later in the interim, you have to implement an entire financial system, which makes it possible for Salvadorians to actually be able to send Bitcoin back and forth and use it as a daily transaction. Then in September, when it's actually rolled out for the first time, you see a lot of chaos

22 (10m 55s):
Within a thousand people protested against Bitcoin and El Salvador's capital on Tuesday, rallying against its adoption is currency there amid a bumpy digital rollout.

2 (11m 4s):
There starts to be protests. As people are wary that the government is spending all these resources and implementing a Bitcoin ecosystem,

11 (11m 13s):
They're going to spend $200 million on this. All right. So have you sorted out the rest of our problems? Have you sorted out education or health care? Well, there's a lot more problems to solve after that, before you come and impose a law that Salvadorans don't agree with.

2 (11m 28s):
And I think there's just a lot of confusion of what it actually means for the country and how it can really be used on a day-to-day basis.

4 (12m 9s):
It's earth month here at box. So unexplainable is exploring some of the most fascinating mysteries of the ocean.

19 (12m 20s):
It's like interstellar travel while staying here on this planet, it

25 (12m 24s):
Was a fireworks display.

19 (12m 26s):
The closest we can come to that kind of alien contact moments

25 (12m 31s):
Movement. You make triggers, flashes all around you. These vortices of neon blue liquid light would just shoot up and mixed in would be blowing blew embers.

19 (12m 44s):
How much more different can you get from our way of being,

4 (12m 47s):
If you want to hear about everything from underwater light shows to a lost city of octopuses, subscribe to unexplainable, new episodes, every Wednesday, wherever you get your podcasts

25 (12m 59s):
Exploring is better than sex, all the thrill and none of the baggage.

Shopify (13m 8s):
If you want to sell things online, you need a commerce platform that makes it easy to sell those things. Shopify is the go-to choice for millions of different businesses. Shopify is all in one commerce platform includes everything you need to start, run and grow your business. Whether you're selling organic dog treats formal clothing for collectible dolls or hair pieces. Shopify is finally giving entrepreneurs and startups the same set of resources that used to be reserved for big companies. That means that businesses of all sizes can finally sell everywhere, sync up online and in-person sales and keep an eye on important data. Go to shopify.com/explained all lowercase for a free 14 day trial and get full access to Shopify. Entire suite of features grow your business with Shopify today, go to shopify.com/explained. Now that's shopify.com/explained.

0 (14m 10s):
Leo Schwartz. A minute ago. You told us that El Salvador took this bold unprecedented step and adopted Bitcoin as a country in September of last year. Tell us what that looks like in practice. Like what's the practical nature of your entire country using Bitcoin as its primary currency?

2 (14m 31s):
So obviously implementing Bitcoin as legal tender is a pretty broad idea. I think a practice, what the boot Kelly administration wanted that to look like was businesses would be able to accept Bitcoin, just like they would accept us dollar. And also the population would be incentivized to use Bitcoin for daily transactions. Now, Bitcoin, as a currency, as I've said before, is, is really difficult to use. So what they did was they built a digital wallet, which is called Chivo Spanish for goat or an El Salvador slang for cool, that would allow people to be able to send Bitcoin back and forth to each other, to be able to load their wallets with Bitcoin, by using us dollar, they actually had physical ATM's

27 (15m 16s):
We're at the Chivo ATM, and we're going to show you how a transaction. Okay.

2 (15m 21s):
And they can put in dollars and their balances would be loaded with Bitcoin. And then the idea is that go to a store and you actually want to buy something using Bitcoin, but you can just essentially scan a QR code and be able to send that money right through.

28 (15m 34s):
So scan the QR codes, Michael, no, you just need to press send. And now just confirm. Yes, it's paid, right? It's by Gallo.

2 (15m 46s):
I think the criticism there that you hear from a lot of people in the Bitcoin community is that if you're basically just sending Bitcoin back and forth in a digital wallet, the same way that say, if you have Venmo you're to sending money back and forth with each other, that's not really Bitcoin. That's essentially just an alternative to typical banking systems or to any financial app out there. So because you're not really doing on chain transactions, it's really no different than having a Venmo wallet, but that was the government solution for being able to take this very difficult technology and making it more applicable for general use.

0 (16m 20s):
So other than literally calling this Chivo, which is slang for cool, how does the government try to convince people to actually adopt the system and get off that USD?

2 (16m 31s):
So the main tool that the government had was actually loading wallets with $30. So if you signed up for your Chivo wallet, you would get $30 worth of Bitcoin.

11 (16m 40s):
And I mean, that's no small son and a country where, you know, the average minimum wage is $365

2 (16m 48s):
Free money. Free money always works. Everybody loves three money. I think anecdotally and also from government stats are released a huge percentage of the population immediately signed up for the wallet. Then the question is, okay, you have this money. Are you going to actually use it for doing transactions? The answer for that, for everything we've seen is no. So you have this money, you can take it out from the ATM's. If you want, maybe you do one or two transactions, but for the most part that you, a wallet really isn't being used as an alternative for us dollar. Again, I think it's fair to say that we're still very early on in the project. It's only been about six months as we learned from Bitcoin beach, the main challenge. Isn't only giving people money and getting them onto the system.

2 (17m 30s):
It's teaching them how to use it and why it actually makes it makes sense to use. And I don't think the government has really done much outreach or had much progress on that front.

0 (17m 38s):
So everyone's excited about their free $30, but that excitement doesn't really last. Is that what you're saying?

2 (17m 43s):
It lasted enough to sign up for the wallet and get the free $30. I don't think it lasts enough to say, oh, this is cool that it's in Bitcoin. I'm going to start using Bitcoin exclusively as an alternative to just using cash, to buy my groceries or buy my food. One big challenge is that to be able to use Chivo, you need to have access to internet in the cities. You might be able to have data to be able to send transactions back and forth, but a lot of the countries rural. So it's gonna be difficult to actually have access to this app and access to internet to be able to use it. The other main dynamic here is just trust. If people are already using physical dollars in their day-to-day transactions, it's not necessarily easier to be using the Chivo wallet.

2 (18m 24s):
So why does it actually function as a better alternative? And especially if businesses aren't really starting to accept it, there's no real mechanism in play where it makes more sense to use Bitcoin or use Chivo for your daily transactions in place of dollars,

0 (18m 38s):
Six months in, do we have any data about how much of the country is actually using Chivo Bitcoin?

2 (18m 45s):
So recently the Salvadorian chamber of commerce released a survey that found that 86% of businesses have never done a transaction of Bitcoin hand. I think that's the most convincing stat we've seen. Of course the government says that I think 4 million people have downloaded Chivo or have a Chivo account, but that doesn't really explain anything about how often they're using it. The fact that so many businesses aren't using it, I think is the most demonstrative of the actual efficacy of, of the wallet. And then anecdotally, if you talk to anybody, they'll say I'm not using Bitcoin and daily transactions. And I think a lot of people have been even skeptical of downloading Chivo in the first place and getting their free dollars saying they don't really know what their data is going to be used for.

2 (19m 29s):
They've heard a lot of conflicting things about the project it's not worth it.

0 (19m 32s):
Did you find people who were using it and were happy about it? Even

2 (19m 36s):
To be honest, I haven't, I've tried to talk to a wide swath of people and it's very difficult to find someone who's saying, yes, I'm using Bitcoin every single day. I think in Bitcoin beach, this is probably the best example where you'll find some merchants who are very pro Bitcoin, partly because it's incentivized a lot of tourists to come in, which is improving their businesses. Also Bitcoin can work as an investment tool for a lot of people, especially near the beginning of the project when Bitcoin was rising in price. If you get paid, say a dollar in Bitcoin, maybe tomorrow that Bitcoin you're holding will be worth $2. So in that sense, it's better than the dollar. Unfortunately, since hitting a high of almost $70,000 in November, Bitcoin's price has dropped precipitously.

29 (20m 21s):
One Bitcoin was worth less than $36,000. It's lost almost half its value in two months,

2 (20m 28s):
Which takes away that sole advantage where Bitcoin can function, not only as a currency, but also as investment vehicle. If one day you're holding $10 worth of Bitcoin, the next day it's worth $7. Maybe the next day it's worth $12. It's not a very stable way of conducting your daily financial life.

0 (20m 47s):
How much money has the government invested in this program? I mean, they, they offered up $30 to anyone who wanted it. What did that end up costing?

2 (20m 55s):
It's hard to get actual estimates on this. And the government is not transparent in sharing details on both how they're implementing the system and how much money they're spending. I think our best estimates would put this at hundreds of millions of dollars that they've spent both developing the wallet, seeding the accounts with $30 and also buying huge amounts of Bitcoin, which boot Kelly has done and bragged about on social media. The irony being that since he's bought the Bitcoin, it's gone down in immense amount, which is another criticism. A lot of people have. Why are you spending money on Bitcoin when this is certainly not the best use of money a government could spend, especially if the price is going down,

0 (21m 38s):
Where does he see this experiment going in the next few months and years?

2 (21m 41s):
So I think for boot, Kelly has really adopted this idea of Bitcoin maximalists or crypto maximalists who say we're still very early on in this crypto revolution. This is the first days of what's going to happen. You can't look at it on a six month timeframe. You have to look at it on a 10 year timeframe. Obviously it's hard to really see what's going on in his mind. If he's freaking out that he's lost billions of dollars on his fairly ill-advised Bitcoin purchases, but he's embarking on projects that would reinforce the Bitcoin adoption, El Salvador.

30 (22m 17s):
And finally several folks in the Bitcoin community are headed to the Latin American Bitcoin and blockchain conference and El Salvador.

2 (22m 23s):
So when I was reporting this story in El Salvador in November, there was a large Latin American Bitcoin conference that happened. You had people pouring in from all over the world, all here to witness this first country that adopted Bitcoin as legal tender during the conference, there were rumors of when boot Kelly was going to show up when he was going to talk, he kept delaying and he kept delaying Finally, the last day of his conference, he announced that there was going to be this talk on a beach near all Sunday. It happened at night, there were fireworks, there was ACDC music. It was this whole spectacle.

1 (23m 2s):
Can we going Like our country?

2 (23m 12s):
But he announces at the speech that Salvador will be building a Bitcoin city

1 (23m 17s):
Bitcoin city,

2 (23m 21s):
Which will be this bastion to Bitcoin. That will be exempt from a lot of taxes where the goal is to just attract crypto companies from around the world. And we'll be this hub where Bitcoin can be celebrated.

1 (23m 35s):
So the city is going to be totally circle, except for them the place of the volcano in the middle, you would have a huge Blosser, which is, would be from the air. You will look at us a bit green sign.

2 (23m 51s):
The way that it would be paid for is with a Bitcoin bond. So a $1 billion bond that would be raised from, I guess, investors who want to support the project. Half of the money would go to building infrastructure and to Bitcoin mining projects. The other half would go to buying even more Bitcoin with the idea that if Bitcoin skyrockets and price, then all the investors will get even more rich. So I think for boot Kelly, this is the future. El Salvador would be a country, at least from the outside, that will be defined by Bitcoin by this Bitcoin city, by this Bitcoin bond. And by being able to raise money through bonds like this, he'll be able to circumvent a lot of the traditional international financial markets and no longer have to rely on institutions like the IMF or from international bond holders.

2 (24m 41s):
And instead can just raise money directly from the global Bitcoin community,

1 (24m 46s):
Looking into the future. It's nice to be part of it, isn't it. So, you know, let's all be part of it and let's all push the future even forward. Thank you guys have fun. Love you, everybody.

0 (25m 13s):
Bitcoin city sounds sorta like a graduated version of Bitcoin beach where this all started El Santa's

2 (25m 20s):
Yes. On a, on a much wider scale,

0 (25m 22s):
But didn't you say that the experiment in El Sunday didn't really work. People were just showing up to take a selfie of themselves buying a pupusa with Bitcoin.

2 (25m 31s):
Yeah. This is always the question. When it comes to Bitcoin, you always have to separate the hype from the practicality. Even now, crypto is one of the biggest news stories and tech and finance and business. However, in a country that's adopted Bitcoin as legal tender. When it comes to everyday people, adoption rates are still incredibly low, even on the smallest scale, which has Bitcoin beach. People still struggle with using Bitcoin as day-to-day currency.

0 (26m 6s):
Leo Schwartz is a reporter@restofworld.org. Our show today was produced by will read edited by Matthew Collette fact-checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul mousey. I'm Sean Ramez for him. It's today explained.