1 (1s):
2024 some my employer Vox are calling it the biggest election year in history. Billions of people are expected to vote in Elections in the next 11 months. Taiwan on Saturday is among the first. It's a young democracy. First held the presidential election in 1996, which is something Taiwanese are very proud of.

2 (21s):
I love the fact that Taiwan has done away with strong man politics. A great nation doesn't need a strong man cult, but a civil society. That's what makes a mature society

1 (32s):
As they go to the polls to pick a president. Taiwanese will be choosing between a progressive candidate and a candidate who wants much closer ties to China. The race is close though voters do agree on one thing.

3 (44s):
I spoke to lots of people on all sides of the political spectrum who made the point that democracy is shouldn't be taken for granted or something to defend. And whoever they're voting for, they're very excited to have that opportunity

1 (55s):
That's coming up on today. Explained

Unexplainable podcast (1m 3s):
This weekend on Unexplainable. Can scientists save the rainforest by listening to it? Here we go. Well this is not gonna work. It's in the day. Got it, Got it, got it. 20 birds. Let me see if there's anything from the night That's a poison frog. Wait, Wait, wait. Where The, Okay, That's a poison frog. How to make a stethoscope for the rainforest. That's an unexplainable this week. Follow for new episodes every Wednesday.

1 (1m 44s):
It's today explained ab no will King Amy Hawkins is the guardian's senior China correspondent and she's been covering Taiwan's Saturday election where three parties are in contention.

3 (1m 55s):
Yeah, So. there are two main parties, the Democratic progressive Party, the DPP, which is currently in power, and then the main opposition party, which is the Goman Ang or the KMT, which have historically ruled Taiwan but hasn't been in power for the past eight years. And then there're this newcomer party called the Taiwan Peoples Party or the TPP, which was only founded in 2019 and is disrupting the race a bit in terms of how to remember them. I mean the Democratic progressive party is the most progressive of the three parties in terms of social affairs. you know, they're the party that oversaw the legalization of gay marriage. They've pushed gender equality. So even though much of this year's election campaign is about China and geopolitical issues, you can think of the DPP as being the progressive party.

3 (2m 45s):
The Gorman Ang is the party that have historically come from mainland China. They lost to the communists at the end of the Chinese Civil War and then fled to Taiwan. They had this kind of very historic connection to China and then the Taiwan peoples party is the newest one.

1 (3m 1s):
Okay. So if we hear DPP, we think D for democracy. Yeah. KMT Cuong committed Sounds a little like Cuong committed to China. That's how I'm gonna remember it. And TPP, we don't have to think about them very much. That new they're, yeah. Alright, so you've been there, you've been talking to voters. What are the big issues in this election?

3 (3m 24s):
So a major issue has been the question of how to deal with China. And this is always a theme. Taiwan Taiwanese politics, if especially prominent this time around

7 (3m 35s):
Warships and fighter jets keep coming from China as intimidation. When we have such an aggressive neighbor, we must protect our territory.

3 (3m 44s):
The history goes back to 1949, which was the end of the Chinese Civil War in mainland China where the communists were fighting the nationalists. The nationalists are the KMT mm. And so when they lost in the Civil War, they fled to Taiwan and declared the Republic of China based in Taipei while the communist declared the people Republic of China, which is the communist country we know today in Beijing. And ever since then it's kind of been unfinished business for the communist to kind of defeat that last bit of KMT success. And they've always said they want to unify Taiwan with the mainland. But Xi Jinping more than any other previous leader since Mao has made it a really top priority.

3 (4m 27s):
He seemed defeated part of his legacy and with he's getting older and he said that this problem, as he described it, can't be passed down from generation to generation. In his New Year's day speech recently he said that

8 (4m 39s):
The reunification of China is a historical inevitability and compatriots on both sides of the Taiwan Strait should join hands and share the great glory of national rejuvenation. But

3 (4m 49s):
He hasn't ruled out the use of force doing so. And you know, increasingly any kind of political cooperation with Taiwan looks less and less likely. So that leaves fewer options that aren't military force. And then of course like any election, lots of people care about the economy. There's lots of domestic issues, particularly for young people. Wages have been stagnant for a long time. Housing is increasingly unaffordable. People feel like there aren't enough good jobs for the kind of issues that would motivate voters in any democracy are also very important in Taiwan Tam,

9 (5m 23s):
My personal priority is to have a better life. As for international matters like relations with China, I feel that they are a little detached from us.

1 (5m 34s):
So let's talk through the three parties, especially the big ones, the DPP and the KMT. Where do they stand? Where do they stand on these issues? Where do they stand in particular around China? Yeah,

3 (5m 44s):
So the front runner candidate is a man called Inger who is the current vice president defying when they're from the dpp Democratic, the Democratic progressive party who are seen as being the most kind of pro independence or they, they don't formally support Taiwanese independence, but they are the most in favor of a sovereign Taiwanese identity that's very distant from China and lie more Thans. The current president had a history of promoting Taiwanese independence. He previously described himself as a pragmatic worker for Taiwanese independence. He's seen by some as being quite radical.

11 (6m 24s):
We must abide by the truth, which is what I mean by pragmatism. It is that Taiwan is already a sovereign independent country called the Republic of China. It's not part of the People's Republic of China. But

3 (6m 36s):
He's massively kind of softened down that rhetoric in this presidential campaign because he doesn't want to seem like someone who's gonna rock the boat and someone who's gonna provoke China. And he's very much kind of stayed close to sighing when's rhetoric, which is about Taiwan doesn't need to formally declare independence because it already effectively is independent. And through that strategy aside went has won lots of friends in Washington and around the world.

1 (7m 1s):
What about the KMT committed to China? What is this candidate saying?

3 (7m 6s):
Yeah, so the KMT is candidate of a man called Ho Yoi. He's a former police officer and quite popular mayor of New Taipei. He had a quite avuncular every man persona. I was at a rally of his recently and rather than coming on stage from behind the scenes, he like walked through the crowds and everyone was grabbing him and you know, trying to touch him like some kind of rockstar. And he's quite a strategic clever pick for the KMT because they've historically been seen of this kind of more elitist outta touch party because they're the party that came from China in 1949 and have ruled Taiwan for most of its history since then.

3 (7m 54s):
They've typically controlled the government, they've controlled the big companies and lots of Taiwanese people kind of see them as being the elite. So through picking as their candidate, they've kind of pivoting towards this idea of being the more every man looking out for normal people like working class party.

1 (8m 13s):
Alright. And then there is the TPP. We're not paying them a ton of attention 'cause they're the third party in this, but tell me about who their candidate is and what this person wants. Yeah,

3 (8m 24s):
I mean the TPP is quite an interesting kind of disruptor to this race because their candidate Koju who founded the party in 2019, he has made it really close. He's actually shown huge level of support in recent weeks. He's had tens of thousand people coming out to his rallies and some people do think he's been underestimated

13 (8m 44s):
Few.

3 (8m 45s):
He's the surgeon turned politician. His pitch to vote is that he's the pragmatist, he's the technocrat, he's not the kind of political ideologue, he's just gonna look for a very practical way forward.

14 (8m 58s):
A real important principle is we have to think of a way to have dialogue with China and not just always tell them no because after, no, there is no other step.

3 (9m 7s):
He doesn't have a huge amount in terms of concrete policy for dealing with China. He's focused more on domestic issues. But that has proved really popular, particularly with the younger voters. I mean they were polling from a few weeks ago, which showed kind of huge amounts of support among under 40 voters compared to the other two parties.

1 (9m 26s):
Alright, so the stakes for Taiwanese are quite high here. The stakes for China are quite high here. What about this election is so important that much of the rest of the world is glued to the outcome?

3 (9m 39s):
I think it's because you know, whoever wins this election, it will set the tone of cross rate relations between China and Taiwan for years to come. And it comes at a moment when military and geopolitical tensions kind of as high as they've ever been. And so if the DPP wins on Saturday, you know there are many concerns that that could, would really anger Beijing at the very least, they're likely to respond economically with trade sanctions on Taiwan. And any conflict in Taiwan wouldn't just affect Taiwan, it would affect the global economy, it would affect regional security. And even though it's a very small island democracy, it would have ramifications around the world

1 (10m 22s):
That was Amy Hawkins of The Guardian. Now during the break, let's see how many countries you can name that are holding Elections this year in 2024, tweet your answers to at Sean Ramas firm

Constant Contact (10m 45s):
Support for Jay explain comes from constant contact, which wants to help you promote your business better. According to Constant Contact, constant contact's award-winning marketing platform has helped millions of small businesses stand out, stay top of mind, see results. They have tools such as email, SMS, marketing, social media, posting, events, management constant contact can make it easier than ever to promote your business. And if you don't know much about marketing, constant contacts, writing assistance tools and automation features might be able to help you say the right thing at the right time. Plus everything is backed by their 30 day money back guarantee. You can get going and start growing your business today with a free trial of constant contact dot com. Just go to constant contact dot com, constant contact, helping the small stand tall constant contact dot com.

Point Forward Podcast (11m 39s):
This is Andre iga with my man Evan Turner, your favorite former NBA players, bringing You the truth, the realness We're talking about, what the hell is going on in the bay. It's like, yo, we don't have room for air anymore. We an older, older, older now don't blame any part of Steph relying on the dudes that built the dynasty with 'em and went to war with 'em at all. Now that goes down to the front office or the coaches And our guest on the pod this week is the one and only ice. Trey, Trey Young, who has been going crazy, crazy, crazy, crazy for Atlanta this year. Subscribe to point forward the podcast dropping every Wednesday.

1 (12m 22s):
It's today explained. Brian Walsh is an editorial director at Fox now he just wrote a piece for Fox in which he pointed out that it is not just Taiwan going to the polls, people in more than 50 countries are gonna vote this year.

18 (12m 34s):
Presidential Elections, legislative Elections, governor Elections, local Elections. It's really a a banner year for if not democracy, at least the act of having Elections.

1 (12m 45s):
Can you name all the countries?

18 (12m 47s):
I can definitely not name all the countries. I can name a few of the countries.

1 (12m 49s):
I name the big ones.

18 (12m 50s):
Okay, some of the big ones are Bangladesh actually, which just had its election Sunday. Talk about Taiwan, which is gonna have its election shortly. Other big ones are Indonesia in February

19 (13m 0s):
With current president Joko Widodo. Limited to two terms, the country will choose a new leader.

18 (13m 6s):
Pakistan India, the single biggest democracy will have its general Elections in April May.

20 (13m 12s):
Prime Minister Nadi is vying for a third term and by all estimates he's going to have a swift win and

18 (13m 19s):
Europe will have its parliamentary Elections in June. And of course, you know we have the United States coming up in November. Well

21 (13m 25s):
The democracy is still America's sacred cause is the most urgent question of our time. And that's what the 2024 election is all about.

1 (13m 34s):
Alright, let's situate Taiwan within this list that you've given us. What are kind of the stakes in the Taiwanese election as you see them in in this context?

18 (13m 44s):
So the Taiwanese election is really interesting. Taiwan was only became a democracy really in the 1990s, but now it's really one of the most vibrant, highly contested fair and freest democracies in all of Asia. And the real importance here is almost no matter who wins, you'll continue to have these tensions between Taiwan, which views itself as kind of a defacto independent country even though it's only recognized by a few countries diplomatically around the world. And of course China, which views Taiwan frankly as a rogue province that it, it tends to reunify by peaceful or other means at some point. So that tension will continue. And there's a real concern both because should forceful reunification happen, should military action happen, it could potentially wipe out, as I said, one of the best democracies in all of Asia.

18 (14m 31s):
But also it would obviously have major human costs if the US got involved. It would also have really huge ramifications for the global economy. Most of the semiconductors in the world, the computer chips are, everything from your phone to your car to your microwave are made out of Taiwan. So it does quite matter who's in charge of that country. It also matters what's gonna happen after it.

1 (14m 50s):
Okay, so you said something interesting there, which is that in Taiwan there are many issues on the ballot, but democracy itself is also on the ballot. The same thing is happening in our United States democracy on the ballot, right? 2024. Is that going on elsewhere?

18 (15m 8s):
That's really the story around the world. Oh, there's really surprisingly few countries where you know, you feel secure that no matter who wins, you know democracy will continue. And that's because by almost every standard, every international monitor, we've seen real democratic backsliding happening over the last 10 years. And what that means is that even as countries continue to have Elections, you begin to lose the real quality of democracy, which is free and fair Elections not just Elections period. You begin to sort of see where, you know, people in power will penalize or even criminalize their opponents. We're seeing that in a lot of different countries. It's not

22 (15m 45s):
Often you see opposition parties supporters gathered openly like this and they won't be allowed to for long. This is an election in names certainly, but there's only one political view that matters here and it isn't theirs.

18 (15m 59s):
And the concern really is when we say democracies on the ballot, should the results of these Elections be seen to continue to strengthen those kind of quasi deic autocrats, you'll start to see even less real democracy around the world. You might still see campaigns, you might still see Elections, but they'll be kind of not real.

23 (16m 18s):
This is an announcement that will surprise no one Vladimir Putin saying he will run again for president.

18 (16m 25s):
I mean even a country like Russia that as autocratic as they come, we'll have Elections this year. No one sees, sees that as free, no one sees that as a real democracy. But you will instead have kind of like the skeleton of democracy, the trappings of it, but not the real quality, not the real free and fairness that we value. Yeah.

1 (16m 39s):
You know, I wanna dig in on that a bit more because when we say democracy is on the ballot, we don't mean that. It's as simple as people go to the polls and they're like, Hmm, should I vote for the Democrat or the autocrat? It's like laid out very clearly. What does it actually look like at the polls when you're choosing between the more democratic option and the less democratic option? What are some of the signs that you are, that you are in fact voting in one of these Elections?

18 (17m 6s):
Well, I can give you an example of an election that actually just occurred on January 7th that was Bangladesh. Mm, very big country. And in that case the party in power led by she hasina all but outlawed the opposition such that there really made it impossible for them to compete on a fair level.

22 (17m 23s):
Zia is under house arrest on corruption charges she says are politically motivated and her supporters have been jailed in their thousands after violent protests that began last October. They have

24 (17m 34s):
Already executed the election process weeks ago. This has been decided, not in the ballot box, but sitting in the capitol in the office of the highest executive of the country.

18 (17m 46s):
The opposition actually decided to boycott the Elections altogether. They decided they would not run because they saw it as a farce.

25 (17m 52s):
We are appeal to the people of Bangladesh not to attend the seventh election. Thank you.

18 (17m 58s):
Which created a bit of a conundrum for the the party in power. Because even autocrats, even sort of these democratic autocrats, they, they crave campaigns. They crave the authenticity that Elections seemed to confer. So suddenly this party was faced with a situation where like, oh wait, everyone can see that we're running against nobody. So they were actually putting some of their own members of their party to run against other members of their party just to give that sheen of democracy. And the end result was, yes, they won, but turnout was quite lower than it had been in the past. Which I think is another sign that you tend to be in a situation where even the people in the country know that this is not quite real. So when you see the criminalization of opponents, when you see real concerns about the safety and security of Elections of the vote itself, when you start to see the fact that these two parties or multi parties can't compete fairly on the, on the same level, when you start to see real worries about misinformation or disinformation spreading on the internet, those are all signs that you may be an election where whatever other issues are on the ballot, democracy itself is on the ballot as well.

1 (19m 2s):
There have been, as you point out in your piece, there have been lots of other systems other than democracy. Democracy is not guaranteed, right? It's not like, oh, you just get a democracy because you decide that you want one. Is that one of the challenges that you see, Brian, the fact that if you want a democracy you really do need to vote and to fight to get it to keep it?

18 (19m 25s):
I think absolutely that's one of the, the challenges. Elections are the quickest thing you can do in a democracy. We know how those work, but there are so many other things that need to happen. To have a real free and fair representative government that go beyond a an election. You have to have norms about how Elections are contested actually. They have to have norms about how politicians act in power. Sometimes there are laws around them more often they're simply social norms. And look, we know very well from the example of the United States and Donald trump that even in a democracy that in many ways is the world's oldest continuous democracy, there's no guarantee that continues.

26 (20m 1s):
So look, all I wanna do is this, I just want to find 11,780 votes.

18 (20m 11s):
And once those norms are broken, they're really hard to put back together. And I think a last thing here is with these young democracies that often you initially have that experience, you have a burst of freedom. People really appreciate that. But you know, just 'cause you have a doc, no actually does not mean your country will be well run. Doesn't mean you'll have prosperity. And often people can turn against democracy, turn against those in power when they feel that their needs or whether material otherwise are not being met. That is very difficult to, to overcome just 'cause democracy is, we think that it's the freest system of government doesn't mean it's always gonna be the be the most efficient. Put all those together like you have, not just, I think a backslide of it against democracy, but a backlash against some of the, the aspects of it that, that make it difficult to run really, you know, that make it a harder system of government than than other ones.

1 (20m 59s):
Right? I mean, this is why authoritarians at times seem very convincing, right? It's like, oh, somebody just takes power and like gets shit done fine. We don't, we don't have to deal with the democratic process. What is your informed take on what happens if 2024 is simply not a good year for democracy worldwide? What does that look like?

18 (21m 21s):
Yeah, I think it's, it's depressing quite honestly. you know, as I said, we've, we've had years of, of democratic backsliding here in the United States, which, you know, I I I agree with President Biden when he calls the US the beacon of democracy for the world. And that shouldn't be understood as then the United States is a perfect democracy, rather it is a bellwether. And if we can't keep it functioning here, it's very hard to see it functioning around the world. Honestly, if, if we continue to see this, we see no arrest to this trend. I do worry quite a lot about the future. I'd love to come up with a more optimistic spin on it other than to say that, you know, there are, there have been cycles in the past that like sometimes you see, you know, growing autocracy, it then over overreaches you see a sort of civil movement that can push it back.

18 (22m 4s):
I would hope that happening in this case. And of course I think it's important to remember that as much as we worry about how fair these Elections are gonna be around the world, it is really notable that this many people are participating in the democratic process in some way because that was simply not the case until fairly recently. You go back to the immediate post-war era. A lot of countries obviously were not democratic. You had the entire communist sphere as well. If

27 (22m 28s):
We all work together to maintain and strengthen our democratic ideals, communism will never be a serious threat to our American way of life.

18 (22m 37s):
Go back even further. And there's a handful of democracies at best, even countries like the United States really don't become liberal democracies, meaning democracies where everyone has a chance to participate until the post civil rights era. So even the opportunity to have democracy on the scale is fairly recent. That makes me feel better. I, I suppose, but then I look at the more recent trends and I, I do get worried,

1 (22m 59s):
You know, on today explained, we covered the Polish election last year. Poland famously was backsliding, backsliding, backsliding. Then these Elections happen and Poland slides forward.

28 (23m 10s):
Poland won, democracy has won, we have removed them from power. This is one of the most beautiful days of Poland's democracy. And I have no doubt that this day will go down in our history as a day that opens a new era and the rebirth of our republic.

1 (23m 25s):
That one really shocked me and made me think, we all talk a lot about the death of democracy, but you just never know what people voting are gonna want, what they decide is most important to them. And sometimes it seems they decide this bigger ideal of democracy is more important than who can get the roads paved.

18 (23m 43s):
That's absolutely true. And that you're absolutely right about, about the Polish Elections that surprised me as well. It heartened me as well. And I think, you know, what happened there is, is kinda characteristic of what can happen in these situations where it's, which is you had a party in power that was becoming increasing autocratic. It begins to overreach. And even people who may not, you know, they're not the people who are gonna go into the streets to protest for democracy, but they don't wanna live in a country where they don't feel free. And that can lead to that kind of different backlash, backlash against that creeping autocracy. And one thing to keep in mind is that, you know, when you look around the world, there was a really interesting survey done by Open Society Foundations last year. 36,000 people across 30 countries.

18 (24m 24s):
More than 80% of them said they wanted to live in a democracy. And when I look at that, what I, what I take from it is that there is a close to universal yearning for democracy. It is seen as the type of government that one should have in the world today. And if they can keep that focus, I mean that that does gimme some hope for the future.

1 (24m 47s):
That was v's. Own. Brian Walsh. Today's episode was produced by Amanda Lewellyn. Amina Elsi is our editor, and David Herman is our engineer. Laura Bullard did God's work on today's show. She's our fact checker. I'm Noel King. It's today. Explain.