3 (0s):
It's Monday April 13th. 2020. I'm Sean rhombus from it's kind of raining kind of sunny in Washington DC. So I'm outside looking for a rainbow. I don't see one yet. But in the meantime, here's your coronavirus update from today explained. It's official. Now. The United States has the highest covid-19 death toll of any country. Of course people suspect China is dramatically Under reporting its death toll and the rest of the World's numbers are probably an undercount to China is reportedly restricting research on the origins of this novel coronavirus. According to CNN the country now requires all academic papers on how this all got started to be vetted by the central government

1 (46s):
back here in our government. Dr. Anthony fauci

3 (48s):
from the National Institutes of Health was on CNN on Sunday. He said the country could start easing stay-at-home measures as early as next month. He also said we would have saved many. Our Lives if the country had shut down in February instead of March the president communicated some displeasure with that line of thinking on Twitter Sunday night, he shared a tweet that said quote time to hashtag fire ouchie Bernie Sanders indoors Joe Biden today, FYI meanwhile states on the west coast of the United States seem to be faring better than their Eastern counterparts so much so that California, Oregon and Washington State are shipping ventilators to New York if you're wondering what the Coast did differently it certainly took stay-at-home orders more seriously early on in the crisis as a today's 700 or so have died in California compared to about 10,000 in New York.

3 (1m 42s):
If you've been thinking about vegetarianism, this might be a good time to give it a try Smithfield Foods just shut down one of the largest pork processing facilities in Sioux Falls South Dakota after nearly 300 employees tested positive for covid-19. And while we're on trying new things the Supreme Court of the United States is

1 (2m 0s):
Getting

3 (2m 0s):
to the highest court in the land says it will begin to hear oral arguments by telephone starting in May. Sorry Zoom today explain zooms every day, but we're also on Twitter at today underscore explained. I'm a traumas firm email us to today explain to vox.com or give us a call 202 almost dropped my recorder there two, oh two six eight eight five nine, four four and tell us what's on your mind during this pandemic like like Matt just did.

1 (2m 28s):
Hey, it's Matt from British Columbia Canada. And just wanted to say my favorite Toronto Raptor is Pascal siakam. Thank you very much. It's been really great to catch up with old friends over the course of this pandemic a lot more, you know, FaceTime and zooms and House parties and what have you today I even heard from quip. They wanted to let everyone know that apparently 75% of us are brushing. Our teeth with old worn-out toothbrushes that are largely ineffective. So what do you do? Maybe get quit quit will send you a quip brush head toothpaste and floss refills on a dentist recommended schedule every three months for just Dollars, each and shipping is free.

1 (3m 10s):
And right now we go to get clipped dot-coms explains. You'll get your first refill for free to that is get quipped.com explain to G. ET Q UI p.com explained Senator Elizabeth Warren released a 10-part proposal

3 (3m 42s):
to protect essential workers today. It's just one of many plans. The senator has released since this pandemic began our

1 (3m 50s):
colleague Ezra Klein recently spoke to warn about

3 (3m 54s):
everything she would do to combat this pandemic. He spoke to her on the Ezra Klein

1 (3m 57s):
show and we thought you'd enjoy hearing it. So we're going to present that conversation on our show today.

3 (4m 3s):
If you've never heard as a Rochelle just a heads

1 (4m 5s):
up. It runs a little longer than ours does we're like Sitcom length, he's more of a

3 (4m 10s):
movie but a good movie. So be sure to subscribe to the Ezra Klein show. So you don't miss gems like this one in the future.

1 (4m 18s):
Remember Ronald Reagan's famous line. What are the worst words in the English language? I'm from the government and I'm here to help you. Those are not the worst words among the worst words in the English language are we're in a crisis and the government doesn't have a plan to help us get out of it.

3 (4m 51s):
Hello and welcome to this our client show on the VOX media podcast Network. My guest today is Senator Elizabeth Warren who was when she was running the first of the presidential candidates come out with a plan on coronavirus. She came out with one in January then two more in March and I will say having sat down with her for this episode and knowing that there's still no plan. You can actually read from the White House. There's something comforting about talking to a politician right now. Now who actually seems to know what is going on and have a plan for what we should do about it. As always. My email is Ezra Klein show at box.com here is Senator Elizabeth Warren, Senator Warren, welcome back to the

1 (5m 29s):
podcast. Thank you. It's good to be here.

3 (5m 32s):
Something that has struck me is that there still isn't a single coronavirus response plan from the White House. I can't actually go and look up our strategy as a nation for stopping and recovering from this You released three Lance on coronavirus one in January and then two in March but the situation has gotten worse since then. So in your view what should the plan B?

1 (5m 52s):
Okay. So let's start with the fact that if you want to get something done, I think you ought to have a plan and look. I wish we had a time machine we could go back to January because when we're dealing with public health issues like a potential pandemic you want to be ahead of it. You don't want to be chasing it from behind. You know, it's like a fire. Fire fire is a whole lot easier to put out when it's really small than it is when it's really big and has already done an enormous amount of damage. But also is Raging out of control. So back in January. I put out a plan that really focused on the importance of getting ready of making sure that we had all the masks and the gallons and the respirators and all the things we were going to need that the doctors nurses and other Healthcare professionals were ready to go that we Considering opening up centers, you know to be able to help people if the Healthcare System got overwhelmed second part of it was focused on the testing because the testing is crucial we needed enough test kids not just to test people who were showing raging symptoms, but enough test kids to be able to test people who appear to be healthy so you can keep detecting it in the population and identify hotspots respond to those.

1 (7m 14s):
In a very rapid way before this thing rages out of control. Okay, like I said, I don't have a tally machine can't go back and do that in January. But the point is that's what a plan should still look like, even though this thing is huge. The plan should be about how we get a health care delivery. And that means we got to keep our doctors and nurses safe. They need personal protective equipment. It also means testing testing testing we Need to have enough test kids so that we're testing not just people who are being admitted to the hospital not just people who are showing high fevers, but we're testing in the population and doing it on a regular basis so that we can tell what the progress of this disease is as it sweeps across the country because that's our best chance in dealing with it.

1 (8m 11s):
But it is it all comes down to you gotta have a plan.

3 (8m 14s):
By the way, this is taken the attitude that this is a problem for States and localities to respond to and to the extent that National help is being invoked it is because there's a failure somewhere. So let me ask the question this way. What is the specific role for the federal government here? What can they do that? Others? Cannot

1 (8m 35s):
what the White House is just simply wrong wrong wrong on the notion that somehow the states can manage this on their own we need an National response so think about what I was just talking about it is the federal government that can order the tests. It is the federal government that can use the defense production act in order to call it Force companies to produce the test kits to produce the masks to produce the gowns so that we could actually shift Manufacturing in this country away from toasters or whatever else they're manufacturing away. Way from t-shirts over to the kinds of things that we actually need in a crisis.

1 (9m 20s):
The states don't have the power to do that. Only the federal government does and look at what's happening when the states are out there trying for example to buy these masks in a market with no rules. What happens is States and up bidding against each other. So New York bids against Massachusetts and they both are bidding against Arizona and California and it look, That's great for whoever is sitting on a couple of million masks, but it's sure not good for the states that desperately need these masks and that are paying more and more and more just to get basic supplies. It is the federal government that can say, whoa.

1 (10m 3s):
Hold on here. We're going to allocate these masks not based on who bids the highest price but in terms of where there's a A real need and where we can see the need coming because we're doing adequate testing. So let's get those masks to people in New York when that's where the hotspot is, but let's move them up to Boston because we predict that in another week Boston's going to be hit hard and let's make sure that we get the masks on around the country when they're needed. In other places same with test kits same with every part of this that is what a federal government that has a plan.

1 (10m 43s):
That's cold. Native no response can do and then let me mention the other half of this and that is the economic have it is the federal government and only the federal government that can actually cushion the economic blow here in a meaningful way in the state of Massachusetts. For example already predicts that we're going to have a 3 billion dollar shortfall because expenses have gone up dramatically as we're trying to support. Port people out of work trying to support people who need shelter trying to support our hospitals and at the same time Revenue has gone down as we now know taxes won't come in until July 1st if-then and with a lot of small businesses closing and a lot of people out of work tax revenues are likely to be lower.

1 (11m 36s):
It is only the federal government that can actually print money in a time of Crisis. It is only the federal government. Can deficit spend Massachusetts as matter of our state constitution cannot engage in deficit spending? So it's the federal response that we mean both on the health front and on the economic front.

3 (12m 0s):
I want to pick up on this idea of the federal government as an allocator of resources because it does seem that they are allocating resources, but possibly on another principle Florida is getting everything it is asked for tuck he's getting more than it asked for but among others Massachusetts we know is very much not and there have been some arguments are concerns that the way the Trump Administration is allocating. These resources is based on which states they feel have been politically friendly to them and which states they feel are important for them in 2020. Do you think that's true or do you think that's a misperception? Look

1 (12m 38s):
Donald Trump has made clear for years now that he cares about exactly one thing. Donald Trump and whatever it is that Donald Trump wants her Donald Trump needs. It's all politics all the time. And now he's focused on how Donald Trump is going to get reelected and get reelected. So the biggest crowd ever can show up at his inauguration and that invades every decision that he makes so just look at the data you cited. How can it be that Kentucky and Florida get a hundred percent of what they need or a hundred percent. Sent plus of what they need while Massachusetts doesn't I think anyone would look at that and say it's Donald Trump playing politics.

1 (13m 23s):
Once again,

3 (13m 24s):
I want to go back to the plan on one dimension here, which is you talked about testing. You talked about getting Health Resources out. So we're able to protect Frontline health workers. There is a lot of social distancing happening across the country right now. A lot of places are in various forms of lockdown, which is also an economic lockdown and we're going to turn to the economic dimensions of it in Minute, but what comes next I think the most one of the most damaging parts of there not being a clear plan is people who are sheltered in place, which among others I am don't have an idea of what they are Sheltering in place for how that time is being used and what is going to come after so that these can both be kept in check but also some semblance of normal life could return so if you are creating a plan what we do to help people comes after social distancing what is phase two of the public health response?

1 (14m 14s):
So it's a great question. And and of course, you know me the first part of this is collect as much data as we can't that's what testing should be all about. So we can keep watching where the hot spots are and and kind of how this plays out over time who's most affected where we need to intensify our resources in terms of a response, but there's a second part to it to think about and that is as This happens over time. We're going to have a growing proportion of the population that is immune because they've had the the coronavirus and at least we presume that's the case that once they've had it they'll have antibodies and that means these are going to be people who can go out Among Us and other than the risk of touching someone who has who is contagious and then touching something else.

1 (15m 14s):
Us and other than that part of the contagion these are people who can go out and start engaging in the activities, we need helping restart both our economy and helping support our Healthcare System, but that only happens if we're collecting those data, so right now what we need to be working on is not just the testing for who actively has coronavirus but also who's immune now to covid-19 and identifying those people and starting to think of them as a resource in both getting us through the worst part of this crisis and also helping us to restart parts of this economy as quickly as possible, but you can't do it if you don't have information

3 (16m 11s):
on the testing Ian we are as a country testing far fewer people per capita than say South Korea is what is your view of the testing failure? Why did it take so long to roll the testing out and if there are still blockages in the system or in the production system, how do they get lifted? What is needed to get this scaled up in a mass way

1 (16m 38s):
quickly. The reason we didn't have testing early on was plain old politics. Donald Trump didn't want to see those numbers remember when he said that he didn't want the people to disembark from the ship that had an infection not because he was worried about whether or not it might spread and whether or not when they got off the ship there would be appropriate protection. He said no, he didn't want his numbers to go up meaning the confirm number of cases at that point. I believe that the reason that the Trump Administration Castration wouldn't by the World Health Organization test kids was they don't want them.

1 (17m 21s):
They want to see a crisis here in America. And so America went the role of we're going to develop at ourselves and then they were slow and they didn't put money into it. Yeah, I think this is part of a mindset that a president believes that he can just declare how the world works and somehow the world will conform to him. And boy that doesn't work in reality and it sure doesn't work in a pandemic

3 (17m 51s):
that put about the mindset is interesting. When I look back at your January plan. What is striking about it is it it is looking at coronavirus at a time when it is not yet primarily here. It's a it's a problem there in the question is can you contain it? And in this case in China and it's very much about how to Serge Global Public Health how to make sure we are getting good Global testing results how to make sure that we are in Information flows with other countries and at the same time what we're seeing right now as the Trump Administration responds politically to coronavirus is a sharp increase in tensions with China and very very inflammatory rhetoric. There is a very aggressive effort to get American companies to stop exporting to other countries, even if that means in critical ways those countries will stop giving us things that we need.

3 (18m 39s):
Can you talk a bit about the difference between approaching a global Health crisis? Like coronavirus from a perspective of we are in transactional competition with all these other nations versus a perspective of there's some kind of positive some interaction or possibility here.

1 (18m 56s):
So it's a great question. And what you're asking is the question we face all the time around climate change that we may be in competition with other countries economically and politically but when it comes to saving the Planet we have to find a way to work together because there's no such thing as saving the United States of America and letting the rest of the planet burn up that won't happen. And the same is true about a pandemic. We live in a world where if this disease spreads in one country and one region, then it's going to reach all around the globe.

1 (19m 39s):
It's going to do it fast that is part of the reason that that we for decades supported the World Health Organization and part of the failure of this Administration when it takes the mindset of build a wall rather than let's work cooperatively with other countries to address the risks that we all face and work cooperatively with them and making sure whoever is hit the hardest whoever gets him. First actually has the resources they need to be able to contain this because had we helped contain this earlier.

1 (20m 25s):
The spread might have been slower might have been arrested in entirely. That's how we have to do this. Now. Look China's not blameless in this in terms of they have their own internal problems on information that was distributed on their own response to this crisis. But even so we should be supporting internationally getting the test in getting the information documenting sharing information and that I just want to mention a second one to this. That's the thing about who we are as a country. I believe that a big part of Foreign Relations is about the value statement about who we are so yes, we have terrible problems with Iran and Iran's plan to develop a nuclear weapon Iran's support for terrorism.

1 (21m 21s):
But Iran is is in the throes of a true crisis of enormous proportions. This is a moment when we could offer a generous hand to the Iranian people and demonstrate both to them and to the rest of the world. That human beings to human beings we want to do our best to build a world where everyone is treated with some dignity and some respect the idea that the Trump Administration wants to use this moment of Crisis as a way to sharpen our pressure on other nations and throw elbows economically.

1 (22m 11s):
I just think is fundamentally the On approach. I don't think that's who we want to be as a nation and frankly. I don't think it makes us safer over the long Arc. I think we build more security for the United States when we try to work with other nations and treat other human beings with respect. I want to

3 (22m 32s):
hold on this point for a minute because it reminds me what you're saying something your colleague Senator Chris Murphy said to me which is it. If you look at the federal budget, we've spent hundreds of billions of dollars. Every year buying insurance against the possibility of a Russian attack and we've spent almost no money buying insurance against the possibility of a global pandemic and and some of those whose very thoughtful on these issues made a similar point, which is that his experience is that we take adversarial risk very seriously. If there is a risk that we can locate as coming from another country or a terrorist group. We will look at that and prepare for it. We have a whole defense budget and way of thinking about it.

3 (23m 14s):
The armed services committee. You've seen all this but that when there is a risk that would affect the whole world when there is a risk that cannot be seen as adversarial and that very distinct way climate change pandemics other kinds of environmental risks that we tend to ignore them down play them. There's something in the way our politics works that we only respond when we can clearly name an enemy and that it has left us. We underprepared for a lot of the truer risks that we face as not just a country. But as a planet, I'm curious if you think there's truth to that

1 (23m 54s):
I very much agree with what you've just described but I think there's another dimension to understanding it and that is think about the two kinds of threat that you've just talked about one is the kind of we've understood since the time that human beings lived in. Hey and that is punching each other, you know competing for resources human being to human being and using ever sharper weapons to make that happen. But the second is better understanding the world around us the world of threats to our health and ultimately threats to the planet we live on.

1 (24m 38s):
What troubles me so deeply about the past three years in the Trump Administration has been the hostility to science and not just the science of climate change. Although that has been the hostility there has been breathtaking but all kinds of science driving the scientists out of the Department of Agriculture making that a political Take it or leave it. You know that that is a mindset that goes back to a problem that I think Trump has evidenced from the beginning of this crisis if he declared that the crisis was over and enough people believed it then it would all work that way but that's not how reality works.

1 (25m 31s):
That's not that's not how how the lived experience of all of us works. Now this this virus doesn't care what Donald Trump says it has no no political volition here. This is a virus that is just going to keep spreading no matter what Donald Trump says and the failure to regard what our scientists tell us about the world around us puts this country and this world in grave Danger.

3 (26m 9s):
Just a quick reminder that you're listening to the

1 (26m 11s):
Ezra Klein show on today explained if you love

3 (26m 13s):
what you're hearing, you know where to find it the Ezra Klein show go take a look

1 (26m 17s):
more with Ezra and Elizabeth after a break.

3 (26m 21s):
Hey, it's Kara Swisher. You may know me as the only person who looks cool wearing sunglasses

1 (26m 25s):
indoors. But in my spare time, I host a podcast called Rico decode every week. We talk about power change in the people. You need to know around Tech and Beyond some of my recent guests include Edward Snowden Megan Rapinoe and the cast of The L Word which was a huge thrill for me. If any of these sound interesting to you, you should listen them now on Rico decode subscribe to the show for free on Apple podcast or in your favorite podcast app to be the first to hear new interviews. every

3 (26m 50s):
week Hey, so I've been getting emails from listeners and sometimes even tweet saying like how can we support the work that you are doing that today explain is doing that Vox

1 (27m 6s):
is doing and usually I'm

3 (27m 8s):
just like I don't know share it. But now there is a

1 (27m 10s):
different way to support today explained

3 (27m 13s):
and box Vox is launching a contribution effort right now and vox.com give you can give money. You can contribute to help Vox make podcasts to make the

1 (27m 25s):
explanatory.

3 (27m 26s):
Journalism that you depend on and right now

1 (27m 29s):
in this crisis is more important than it's ever been so you can choose what that work is

3 (27m 35s):
worth to you and give to support Vox and today explained and all the stuff that you love that we do go to vox.com give right now and make your contribution just a heads up. It's not tax deductible. But thank you so much for your

1 (27m 51s):
support.

3 (27m 59s):
Want to move our conversation to the economy. We saw more than 6 million new unemployment claims this week. And for those not used to looking at this data. That is apocalyptic. It it makes a Great Recession disappear on a chart and I want to begin this part here. There's been an argument going around that we are facing a choice between our economy and our lives. We've heard this including from president. Up that we cannot let the Cure of social distancing be worse than the disease given the economic damage that social distancing could end. In fact is causing. This is very real suffering. Do you think that choice your are your our economy or our life is a choice we're facing is that the right way to frame

1 (28m 42s):
it that is not the right way to frame it. These two work together saving lives strengthens our economy and strengthening. Our economy can help is if we use our resources properly. Lee save lives the idea that there is a choice between those two and somehow they are in competition with each other is just flatly wrong. So let me do this at two levels first. What does it mean to be a nation? If we're not here to take care of our own people. It is the first job at the president of the United States of America to help keep Americans safe and what that means is in a time of a pandemic then Making sure that we have adequate health care that we have a plan to deal with this crisis.

1 (29m 32s):
It is also the case that it's just false on the economics, you know, there's a great new white paper out at the Safra Center at Harvard that talks about three possible responses to the pandemic one. That is really hardcore Sheltering for a truly extended period of time one is about A Sheltering to try to flatten the curve moving back into some economic activity over time and the third is just give up and say no, you know, it's the economy and nothing more and they go through as public health officials do and talk about the cost of each one of those and the costliest is to what they call surrender and what that really means is to say it is only about the economy on you.

1 (30m 22s):
Just let people go about their business and the reason that The costly as it is that it causes the maximum number of deaths and deaths are in fact costly. We lose the benefit of those lives and so they followed just kind of what is the standard dollar value. We put on a life and showed that it will be far more expensive if we just let this pandemic race through our country without trying to Take these measures to protect the lives of people. So I see this is both morally and economically these two things are not intention.

1 (31m 4s):
If we want to strengthen our economy, then we need to solve this medical problem. That's what counts

3 (31m 12s):
first. Let's assume we do get the medical problem relatively under control. You were deeply involved not only in the policy response to the financial crisis, but also in making sense of it for people Standing it. And that was a financial Panic that froze much of the real economy. This is something different. We have Frozen much of the economy by choice. We are going to have all kinds of mobilization issues business failures what is different in how people need to think about what the economic needs and policies will be than was true in the financial crisis if you're coming into this with 2008 as the operative metaphor in your mind. How do you need to change the way you're looking at it?

1 (31m 52s):
Well, the first thing that changes obviously is there's such a powerful Health overlay to everything we're looking at so you can't just say I know let's have an infrastructure package and send everybody to work on this piece of infrastructure. Nope. We still have to worry about contagions. So that changes everything we think about in terms of getting people back to work. So that's part of it second part of it is How it touches the economy in a very different way, you know in the 2008 crash everyone could still go to work.

1 (32m 33s):
The problem was whether or not the money system would freeze up so that businesses couldn't keep their line of credit so they couldn't make payroll if they can't make payroll people can't pay their bills and so on through the economy This Time It's Different small businesses. I hate to say Say this they're leading the shutdowns. You know, they were these little businesses across the country not because they can't get access to to money. But because they can't and shouldn't have workers there and can't access their customers. So it means you have to think about this differently. Let me let me just give you one example, it means for example that the tool of Simply getting money into the hands of tens of millions of people across this

3 (33m 22s):
country.

1 (33m 22s):
Country is critically important. Why because we want them to buy food because if they buy food we keep that part of the economy functioning. We need that supply chain to keep working so that the grocery stores are still stocked and that only happens if customers are coming in right and then the grocery stores by from the wholesalers and the wholesalers are buying from the farmers and from the canners and other producers and the trucker's are still up. up and running we want to keep that supply chain functional both for the health of the American people and for the health of the economy and that only happens if people have money to buy food the question about people being able to stay in shelter is a little different do we give people money so they can make their mortgage payment and rent payment or do we just say we're going to freeze in place debt collections so that nobody gets Ejected.

1 (34m 23s):
Nobody gets foreclosed against nobody gets a bad credit rating during this but we're going to have to hit the pause button here on people making their payments for shelter. And for those owners of those properties making their payments on their loans. How much of this can we manage through the financial system that way and how much do we just have to make cash payments to people so you have to kind of think about this structurally in a little different way. And yet the core Parts, they're still the same. It's a crisis and we need to address the crisis directly in 2008 people being moved out of their homes financial instruments failing the the Specter of the entire Financial system freezing up and remember that one will suggest the u.s.

1 (35m 16s):
It was a worldwide problem. Remember all over Europe. Asia was having problems. I see. Nearly shut down. And in that sense, we have crisis we have to deal with this Health Care crisis, and we need a strong response and we need it fast. One of the lessons from 2008 was that frankly the Republicans just wouldn't go for a big enough stimulus package and that meant the recovery was slower and more anemic than it would have. Have been had we put more money into stimulus, but they were determined not to let Barack Obama have that kind of power in the recovery.

1 (36m 4s):
And we paid price for it as a nation indeed. We paid a price. We're still paying a price for it. Now. It's the same kind of thing with God to have a strong enough response to support our families to support our small businesses to keep the parts of this economy functioning. That are absolutely essential for our physical health and ultimately for our Economic Security.

3 (36m 30s):
There's a bit of a tricky point. But when we think about this in phases Phase 1 and Phase 2 at the public health level it seems to me there's an analogy on the economic side, which is this that as you were just saying what we initially need to do as we're asking people to stay home is put the economy on life-support give people the money to be able to continue buying groceries. And paying rent while being at home potentially give businesses the money through forgivable loans or just normal loans to stay open. But after we do that for some number of months some parts of that economy are going to come back in some won't to unlike the financial crisis. I don't think we're just trying to get back to the economy. We were in there's going to be too much damage.

3 (37m 12s):
And so what is the vision for the economy on the other side of this if we're able to manage the life support period of it, it seems to me we're going to need to rebuild things. That are just gone. We're going to have lost a lot of small businesses. We're going to lost a lot of economic knowledge. Do we build something new in its place? Do we try to just bring back what we had what what comes

1 (37m 35s):
after so it's an interesting question, but I'm going to push back on you about small businesses. I think that we risk losing a lot of small businesses. I understand that but I also think small businesses are where you see the first signs of of life in an economy that's starting to heal that entrepreneurs are there creative. They work hard, you know, they come up with ideas and their the constant laboratory of let's try this. Let's try this the shop next door tries something else someone down the street try something else and while they may not all succeed that is one of the best ways to grow the economy.

1 (38m 19s):
We know that small businesses and that Push from small businesses is what employs a huge fraction of our population. So I see this as thinking about how do you best support small businesses that want to get a foothold when they think the you know, the skies are starting to clear and now is the time and here's where you start to think structurally about this. Do we want to just say it's now open season 4 Venture Capital You Know the Way That Wall Street came in and bought up so many of the homes particularly in areas that were really hard hit particularly in communities of color that have been targeted for some of the worst of the worst mortgages and look at the consequences of that.

1 (39m 13s):
It has meant that home ownership has not recovered and that's a lot of you know hard work. Middle class families that are not buying the single best asset that can help them build a financial future. So I think of it with these small businesses if this is just going to be you know, Wall Street money because they got lots of money and they come in and buy up these little businesses or take controlling shares in all these businesses. You'll actually see a shift toward more consolidation over time in businesses. Or are we going to stay aggressive on the government front and in the same way that we just put out this first small business package that I think it's a really strong package.

1 (40m 5s):
Do we make more money available to small businesses as they're trying to, you know, get their feet under them and get their doors open and try the next version of what this economy looks for. Now. You can guess from the way I've described this which one I I want to see us with stronger government support for

3 (40m 26s):
our small businesses going

1 (40m 28s):
forward because I don't want to see that kind of consolidation. Also think you know markets are going to change people are getting used to ordering online. Even you know, the barriers are broken down on that. And so I think we're going to see more ordering less face-to-face contact in some kinds of businesses. But at the same time, you know there a lot of people who Who now hunger for that human interaction? And so I think this one may be you may see two humps on the curve here a lot of services that get delivered to your house. But a lot of things where people just want to go and be with other people that that is a part of the experience.

1 (41m 9s):
I want to buy my stuff where I get to look at another human being and shake hands and know that person's name and have a little conversation over time. So, you know, that's what small businesses will test out for us.

3 (41m 22s):
Between the question of letting financial markets absorb the small business side and giving businesses more support to come back on their own. You've also heard Arguments for different kinds of mobilizations. So one is a public health mobilization among other things. You could see Mass jobs coming from testing at least for some period of time and I could be some kind of transition program similar things can happen in delivery. But also there are different mobilization ideas that have been lurking for some time now or around Green New Deal around infrastructure. Are we going to need in the way you often do during a war or some degree? Even after one a more publicly planned economy to rebuild and to create a kind of bridge back to a fully functioning economy,

1 (42m 7s):
you know, can I add to your list of mobilizations? They should be doing right now housing. I mean think about that was my point about not just people who are homeless, but people who are you know, doubled-up and tripled up and housing we've had a real problem in this country. And that is that that we have built enough housing and it's housing all the way through for middle-class families for working-class families for the Working Poor for the poor poor for people with disabilities for seniors that want to age in place for people who are returning from prison from people who are homeless for people who need that. Housing and that federal government policy has basically been not to help expand that housing.

1 (42m 51s):
So we've watched over the last probably five decades a real shift in warehousing comes from from kind of the middle class and people have less money than that. I grew up in a two-bedroom one-bath house, you know, the garage was converted to hold my three brothers and that house was built by a private. Elder private Builders are not building those houses anymore. They build mansions and I'm not mad at them. It's just that's where the prophets are. So the housing it was kind of entry-level housing or modest housing families that didn't have a lot that housing is not being built privately and the federal government's public housing.

1 (43m 33s):
There's a federal law in place. Now that says for every new unit of public housing brought on federal government has to take one old unit off. Well our population.

3 (43m 43s):
Ends,

1 (43m 44s):
we need more housing. So when you ask the question about where should we be thinking about mobilization? I think that in this time of Crisis, we see the importance of safe secure affordable housing for everyone and I really would put a big push starting immediately because we got to get people off the streets, but I mean over the next few years. We need to expand Our housing availability for folks and this is true. By the way in cities. It's true in small towns. It's true in Rural America.

1 (44m 24s):
This is not a problem that is confined to one kind of area nor does a problem. That's only in the north are only in the South only in the East only in the west. It is a widespread problem and it's a place where we could make a federal investment that in the short run gets people off the street. And puts people to work in construction. And then in the long run creates a stronger more stable housing Supply and takes a lot of economic pressure off families

3 (44m 57s):
that makes a lot of sense to me. But so to just take that one step further. So you do think it will be necessary whatever the chosen mobilization is, or maybe it's some combination of them housing and renewable energy and and so on that as we move out of the economic Life support period of this the Congress and the administration do end up thinking about how to build big public works. Right? Use the government actually put people back to work and align some national priorities with the construction of demand and

1 (45m 29s):
employment. Yes. I do. I think it's going to be absolutely necessary. I was picking the specific example of housing, but look when we're talking for example about energy. This is a chance to upgrade our energy grid and a To harden our infrastructure overtime against coming climate change a chance to make a real investment in public transportation and those have double economic advantages. They put a lot of people to work and there are a lot of ancillary jobs that go with that but they also reassure markets and investors that we're going to build our way out of this.

1 (46m 13s):
Recession or depression wherever is the lowest point we hit I think it will help give confidence that when you have a plan and people can see it. They can start making their plans to supplement that whether it's small businesses were it's big Wall Street investors saying, okay. I see the United States is making a commitment. We know that we're good at this. Yeah, we're going to print money for a while to make it happen. But that's going to get money down into this economy that's going Hold up tube, and that's how you build a boom. You don't do it with stock buy bags. You do it by actually investing in people and in the things that people need

3 (46m 54s):
one important moral dimension of what we're going through right now is a country is that we're seeing a lot of solidarity and sacrifice being demanded of Working Class People of young people many of whom I think feel correctly that America hasn't shown a lot of solidarity and sacrifice when confronted with their needs and in the years before this housing being a great example Healthcare being another example paid leave being example, and now that we're in a moment where people see how much we rely on each other what else needs to be built or done with that moment. So the people from whom we've asked the most feel like this is an ethic that extends to them not just one that is activated to take from them when

1 (47m 36s):
needed I want to see us cancel student loan dad and partly that's Because it would have an economic impact right now. So people are not worried about paying their student loan bills. Now as you know, right now there's a six-month Hiatus. So we've got a little Breathing Room on that but I actually want to see us cancel a big chunk of this dead or all of this debt. And the reason for that is partly economic we can now track that student loan debt has been having a negative effect on our economy that it depresses small. Business start up there a lot of folks with student loan debts who say I'd love you know to pitch him with my friends here and I'll live on ramen noodles and we'll all live in one apartment, you know until we get this business launched but I can't do that if I've got an $800 a month student loan payment.

1 (48m 30s):
There's no way I can make that happen young people are not buying homes. A lot of them are are not able to move out of their folks houses. So there's an economic stimulative effect. That's not just in the very short term, but also, So would be over the next few years for doing this but I also think there's a generational way that young people have just they've been left behind they've been cheated. I graduated from a college that cost $50 a semester. I don't have a big student loan debt burden because I could go to a school and get an education for a price that you could pay for on a part-time waitressing job.

1 (49m 13s):
That alternative is just not out there for young people today. It was there for me because taxpayers had invested in the school. I went to University of Houston taxpayers in Texas and federal taxpayers had invested in that school today. That's not happening not in the same numbers and the consequences young people who try to get an education who try to invest in their future have been left. Pretty much on their own Federal government's response is said. Yep. He really really ought to go out there and get some post high school education. Whether its Technical Training to your college four-year college, and here's how we're going to help will lend you the money at interest and then be your biggest creditor for years and years to come.

1 (50m 4s):
I think that's a intergenerational crime to do that to young people. It's wrong. It's fundamentally wrong. And so I think forgiving this debt just canceling it out. I think that would not only give a boost to 45 million people who are dealing with student loan debt, but it would also be an acknowledgement that a lot of young folks in this country caught the short end of the stick here and that this economic recession or depression. Yeah. It's going to be tough on. On all of us but it's going to be especially tough on people who are graduating into it on people who are in their first jobs, and I think that canceling out our federal government as their biggest creditor would be a way of acknowledging that and saying it's your future that we want to invest

3 (51m 7s):
in when you look back on the primary given What's Happening Now does it feel like the debate was focused on the wrong things?

1 (51m 14s):
No, I don't think so. At least the parts that I was talking about and kept wanting to push out there and I think people did talk some about it. I think we did talk a lot about the role of government and a government that either is working just for the rich in the powerful or a government that's working for everyone else and kind of what the building block pieces of that are as I see it now. In this crisis, that truly is the issue. Remember Ronald Reagan's famous line. What are the worst words in the English language? I'm from the government and I'm here to help you.

1 (51m 55s):
Those are not the worst words in the English language. In fact, we've seen during this crisis that among the worst words in the English language are we're in a crisis and the government doesn't have a plan. to help us get out of it doesn't have a plan to protect our families and the people we love doesn't have a plan to rebuild our economy the idea somehow that we're all going to be better off with a government that doesn't invest in science and in long-term planning I think as Has surely been shown not only to be wrong but to be dangerous.

1 (52m 50s):
So I think that what the election in 2020 is going to be about in part is about people who want a government that is competent and that is on their side in planning for an uncertain

3 (53m 11s):
future. Senator Elizabeth Warren. Thank you very much.

1 (53m 15s):
Thank you.

3 (53m 18s):
Thank you to Senator Warren for being here. Thank you to rush a karma for researching to Jeffrey geld for editing and producing these recline show is VOX media podcast production.