1 (12s):
Jillian Weinberger. Hello? Hi Sean, just of the impact season 3. Yes. That is me. You're taking over the show and you guys are

2 (20s):
doing in your new season kind of a new version

1 (23s):
of what you've done in the past. Is that fair? Yes this season we're looking at the big ideas from people running for president in 2020. And a lot of those ideas have been tried before and other places or at other times. So we thought this season we would look at how all of those big Ideas have worked or not. Worked in the

2 (43s):
past and we thought because today is the 7th democratic debate. The last debate before the Iowa caucus today would be a great day to run an episode of this new season of the

1 (54s):
impact. Yeah. So in this episode instead of going to a place where someone's testing out one of these big Ideas, we're going to a specific time. We're going back in time to the 1980s San Francisco in San Francisco. Yes, let's go. This is a story told by survivors.

2 (1m 23s):
There's a lot of rumors about previously healthy young men getting

1 (1m 26s):
sick. Cleve Jones is one of those survivors Our Story begins in his adopted hometown of San Francisco on an autumn day in 1981.

2 (1m 37s):
I was just walking down Market Street to Castro and went past the Twin Peaks Tavern, which is a very famous bar here in San Francisco was actually believed to be the first gay bar that had plate glass windows so that one could In from the outside and see who the patrons were Bobby was

1 (1m 53s):
there Bobbi Campbell a registered nurse who lived in the neighborhood,

2 (1m 58s):
I'd known Bobby just peripherally, but I certainly knew who he was and he took off his shoes and socks and right there in the bar showed me the bottom of his feet and I saw these small slightly raised purple spots.

1 (2m 11s):
Those spots are kaposi sarcoma, once a rare skin cancer mostly affecting older men, it would soon become well known as The condition associated with AIDS but no one really knew that at the time. They just knew that a bunch of gay men in the Castro had these purple bumps and Bobby decided to do something about it. He got a Polaroid camera and he took pictures of his

2 (2m 34s):
spots and he made a poster which he then got placed in the window of the star Pharmacy that was at 18th and Castro and that I believe was the very first attempt at public education about the disease We Now call HIV/AIDS in the entire world and within minutes of it being taped up there in the window a small crowd of very anxious. N had assembled on the sidewalk to look at these

1 (3m 3s):
pictures and with that Bobby became his communities representative for this new disease quite literally their poster boy. By 1990 nearly a decade after Bobby put up. His poster hundreds of thousands of people had HIV AIDS tens of thousands had died and that year Congress finally passed the first Nationwide coordinated response to the AIDS crisis. It was called the Ryan White Care Act in the years since its dedicated billions of dollars to the fight against AIDS and it revolutionized care for patients with this one's deadly disease when the government takes bold action.

1 (3m 46s):
We can tackle big problems like the AIDS epidemic recently Senator Elizabeth Warren has been revisiting the Ryan White Care Act. She's using it as a blueprint to fight a new Public Health crisis the opioid epidemic Then it doesn't discriminate

2 (4m 3s):
because after every single Community Urban Suburban rural

1 (4m 8s):
Warren's big idea to fight. The opioid crisis is called the Care Act a deliberate echo of the Ryan White legislation. It's become a major part of her presidential campaign and it would cost 100 billion dollars over ten years. Addiction experts agree. This is the kind of money. We need to fight the opioid crisis, but it's a really expensive idea to help a deeply stigmatized population. How would a President Warren get it through

2 (4m 38s):
Congress

1 (4m 48s):
from the VOX media podcast Network. This is the impact. I'm your host Jillian Weinberger. The impact is a podcast about the consequences when people in power act or fail to act what happens to the rest of us, it's 2020. You may have heard that there are a lot of people running for president in November, but we're staying away from their personal bios their campaign gaffes and their debate prep. We're going to talk about what they actually want to do if they're elected a hundred billion dollars

2 (5m 20s):
move away from fossil fuel to Energy Efficiency. Care

1 (5m 24s):
hit this opioid crisis head-on.

2 (5m 27s):
We add a public option and it's going to be a great wall and it's going to

1 (5m 30s):
work. These are all big ideas, but they're not new a lot of them have been tried before here in this country and around the world Germany Taiwan

2 (5m 39s):
1968 Nogales Arizona the fall of 1981

1 (5m 44s):
this season. We have the stories of how these big Ideas worked or didn't work how they changed people's lives. We have stories of hard-fought success. Us and epic failure stories about the problems were facing and the candidates Big Ideas that could solve them stories of what might happen in the next four years. If these big Ideas get rolled out or if people in power failed to take action today on the show how an epidemic begins and ends what it took to get the federal government to finally act on AIDS and what that means for Senator warned plan to fight the opioid epidemic today.

1 (6m 26s):
So let's go back now to the Castro in the early 1980s after Bobbi Campbell taped up that poster he started writing a column about his illness in a local newspaper and across the country in Washington DC Tim Westmoreland. Read that

2 (6m 42s):
column. I was counsel to the subcommittee on health and the

1 (6m 47s):
environment Tim was one of the few openly gay people working in Congress at that time and in 1982. He asked Bobby to testify at a congressional hearing a hearing about the illness that caused those purple spots on Bobby's feet researchers had started calling it grid gay-related immune deficiency

2 (7m 6s):
as I was setting up the tables and the chairs the day before Bobby came in and I never met him in person and we sat and talked a little bit. And he said to me, I don't know anything about Congressional hearings. What should I wear as a witness? And I said, well, what would you ordinarily where and he said well, I can wear a jacket and tie or I can wear my nurse's uniform if you think that would be helpful or I'm a member of the sisters of Perpetual Indulgence. I can come in a nun's

1 (7m 34s):
habit. The sisters of Perpetual Indulgence. It's a drag troop with the whole lot of glitter and fake eyelashes. They do community service work. It's customary to take a name when you join and Bobby a nurse became sister Florence nightmare RN

2 (7m 51s):
House on my whole career passed before my eyes in the sky. Oh my god. I've invited this witness and I have no idea what he's going to do.

1 (7m 58s):
The hearing wasn't recorded. But in the end Bobby wore a suit and tie and he was a very good witness Bobby's. Didn't get much attention, but he continued to speak out about what it was like to live with this disease. It was devastating Bobby talked to CBS News not too long after Tim's hearing. He was skinny with a thin blond mustache. He wore a button that said I will survive

2 (8m 23s):
when I came down with this disease. I found this button it absolutely reflected my position, you know, I may be down, but I'm not

1 (8m 30s):
out. This was just over a year into President Reagan's first term Reagan ran on Budget cuts only an all-encompassing program combining restraint in government spending with economic growth in the private sector will work and he made good on that promise when he took office Tim was worried. We had the

2 (8m 49s):
idea that there was going to be consequences from this there would be public health problems. Perhaps of Public Health

1 (8m 55s):
disaster Tim's boss and Congress was afraid that the federal government didn't have what it needed to fight this disease by that point. It was known as AIDS He started holding more hearings with Witnesses from the Centers for Disease Control the National Institutes of Health and others at these hearings. They'd

2 (9m 13s):
ask. Do you have enough support given the budget stresses that the public health service has been under and the Witnesses were saying as they must because they were testifying on behalf of the administration. We've got what we need. It's not a problem. We're transferring some money around

1 (9m 30s):
in private though. Some of those same Witnesses would tell Tim the It they didn't have what they needed to fight the AIDS epidemic and Tim saw evidence of that in his own life. So did Cleve Jones the activists? We met at the start in their own Community. The situation was Grim.

2 (9m 50s):
I knew people were getting sick. I knew people who died you have to understand that people were dying every day. We were in funerals every day

1 (9m 58s):
Tim asked if we knew what a Rolodex was the old school kind with address cards that flip around I did. I still have a

2 (10m 6s):
Rolodex probably someplace over there of people who are my Rolodex who died and that I couldn't bring myself to throw away their Rolodex card. So I moved it over and do a second Rolodex just so I wouldn't have to throw them away their address books. We had entire Pages where every name had been crossed

1 (10m 23s):
out. And then in the spring of 1984 Tim got a hold of some information evidence that the Reagan Administration wasn't being entirely forthcoming about its commitment to fight AIDS it all started with these Anonymous envelopes slipped under Tim's office

2 (10m 43s):
door plain brown envelopes with Xerox budgets in it.

1 (10m 47s):
They were copies of budget requests requests from the health agencies for federal dollars including

2 (10m 55s):
An entire AIDS budget that had been for the Public Health Service, probably a hundred pages. But of what we would Now call

1 (11m 1s):
spreadsheets and Tim realized that the public health

2 (11m 5s):
people the scientists are actually requesting a dramatic increase in funding that never makes its way into an official

1 (11m 11s):
budget in other words Public Health officials, the scientists the experts they said they needed Millions more to effectively fight the AIDS epidemic the Reagan Administration ignored them. Tim leaked that budget to the press and it landed in the San Francisco Chronicle just before the Democratic National Convention arrived that summer Bobbi Campbell read the report Secretary of Health and Human Services Margaret Heckler called AIDS. The number one priority of Reagan's Health Administration, but many of us feel that in Washington. It's still business as usual while we are dying Bobby spoke in a March in San Francisco. Just before the convention began in July 1984.

1 (11m 54s):
We have a you have a disease, but it's poorly understood often fatal expensive in adequately testable and so far incurable on that stage in front of a huge crowd Bobby looked even thinner than he had on the news two years earlier beside him stood his boyfriend Gail of an 84

2 (12m 17s):
People today don't appreciate how much? People disliked gay men and drug users. Is that time? Are you going to tell me you're a fag me if you're going to tell me you're a fag. I don't think I can

1 (12m 29s):
handle it. Yes. Your total fact

2 (12m 31s):
doesn't this cafeteria of a newfags allowed rule? I'm not a fag. I mean if the AIDS epidemic had first appeared among members of the American Legion the way legionnaires did or people of Norwegian descent. I think the Reagan Administration would have done something out of the ordinary what might have been an extraordinary Response if it appeared in another group was just not common because we don't care we don't care about the people who are getting

1 (12m 58s):
sick. In the lead-up to the 1984 election the Republican Party remained silent on

2 (13m 4s):
AIDS. We didn't set a weather vane on top of the Golden Gate Bridge before we started talking about the American family.

1 (13m 14s):
The Democrats though adopted a gay rights platform including a promise for spending on AIDS prevention and research but Bobby Campbell's health started to deteriorate soon after his speech.

2 (13m 25s):
A lot of people have given me support for being brave. I don't feel Brave so much as maybe a show off, I

1 (13m 31s):
guess despite widespread homophobia and the stigma against AIDS Bobby went public with his disease when very few would he explained? Why on a local radio

2 (13m 41s):
show. I just thought that the more I talked, It the better it would be for me and the better it would be for other people in my community. Take care of yourselves brothers and sisters. You're the only one you've got.

1 (13m 55s):
AIDS activists lost their poster boy on August 15. 1984. Bobbi Campbell was 32 years old. A few months later Ronald Reagan defeated Democrat Walter Mondale in a landslide

2 (14m 12s):
James. We did this for years ago and Let me just say well, you know good habits are hard to break.

1 (14m 24s):
Regan did not mention AIDS in his re-election campaign. In fact by December 1984. He'd never publicly discussed AIDS at all. The disease continued to spread far beyond the gay community and thousands of miles from San Francisco the day after Christmas that same year a mother had to give her 13 year old son some terrible news. I just said Ryan, you know, you've been really sick and he said yes I said they say you have AIDS. He said am I gonna die and I said we're all going to die. Someday. We just don't know when After the break how a Midwestern middle schooler transformed the government's response to the AIDS crisis and what that can tell us about fighting the opioid epidemic today.

2 (15m 24s):
Hey everyone, so I know you know all about Vox podcast because I talk about him all the time you listen to one right now. I know you know about boxes Netflix show explain but Vox is also just getting into the regular like narrative TV

1 (15m 37s):
game right now. You can find a show called Little America on Apple TV plus

2 (15m 42s):
only in America Dia odd tax

1 (15m 46s):
after you see the ticket

2 (15m 47s):
Place only in America can such a perfect game exists face board hamburgers He's progressed bacon. Chili cheeseburger everything on top of everything only in America. Well America comes from the people who brought you the big sick and master of none. It tells 8 extraordinary true stories of immigrants coming to America people from Syria. Uganda Mexico Nigeria. These stories are funny romantic their heartfelt and inspiring and who couldn't use a little bit of that right now Little America is live.

2 (16m 28s):
Now, you can find it on the Apple TV app or go straight to tv.com All.com the show is called Little America 8 episodes check them out now. Hey, it is Ezra Klein. And I want to tell you about an exciting Episode VII has reclined show you can listen to now and episode literally years in the making it is a special excerpt of my new book. Why were polarized which is coming out on Tuesday, January 28th, the book explores the structural and psychological Dimensions behind the way American politics has changed and polarized what it has done to our institutions, but importantly what it is doing to us. So I hope you enjoy it and you can listen to it by subscribing to the Ezra Klein show right now for free in your favorite podcast app it to hear a special excerpt

1 (17m 14s):
from the Welcome back by December of 1984 more than 5,500 people in the United States who died of AIDS it had already devastated the gay community. Now, it was reaching those who thought the disease had nothing to do with them. I mean, I remember seeing people on TV wasted away gay man. Jeannie white Gander didn't know many gay men who were out at the time. She lived in a mid-sized City in the midwest Kokomo, Indiana. I'm very industrial city. Most everybody it seemed work for GM or Chrysler. Do you need son Ryan was born there in 1971.

1 (17m 56s):
He had severe haemophilia and soon after he was born the doctors told Jeanne. They had this new drug that they wanted to use on Ryan. It was called factor 8 which contains the clotting agent found in blood and they said they we feel like this new drug is going to enable hemophiliacs to live almost a normal life. So I was really excited about it because Because there was always serious bleeding problems with hemophiliacs before then. We thought it was a miracle drug. The drug was made with blood from thousands of different donors. And at that time donors weren't screened for disease Ryan used factor 8 at least twice a week for more than a decade.

1 (18m 37s):
And then the year, he turned 13 Ryan was very sick and I had him to the doctor a lot one day. He got off the school bus he come in the house and he said Mom you got to do something. He said I can't Ben get off the school bus without being tired and then it just a few days later. He got pneumonia so they did a biopsy and they took two inches out of his lung the results came back that he had pneumocystis, which meant he had AIDS Ryan got infected by all the donated blood used to make factor 8 his haemophilia medicine. I really kind of didn't want to believe it at first you think you're going to wake up and it's not going to be the way it is. And then you figure out it is the way it is, you know, and you have to deal with it.

1 (19m 20s):
He was only supposed to live three to six months. Jeannie's mom switch to the night shift at the GM plant. So Ryan could be with his grandmother during the day when Jeanne was at work was hard to go back to work because you don't know how long your child. Has and you want that time special with him, but at the same time I needed my insurance and that was the arrangement for the first few months of 1985. And as those weak slipped by he started gaining weight. He didn't look sick no more. He said call the school. Okay, Mom Ryan was eager to go back. So Jeannie called the principal. He said the school board's going to vote in July whether to allow Ryan and school next year or not and the school board voted on the of July not to let Ryan and back in school all of a sudden overnight it became chaos.

1 (20m 9s):
I mean every media in the country was calling showing up at our doorstep wanting to talk to this little boy that wants to go to school with

2 (20m 16s):
AIDS. Ron White says, he gets very lonely. The 13 year-old was banned from school after it was found. He was suffering from AIDS and now his school have said they never want him back in

1 (20m 26s):
class. I think it's better for him to stay

2 (20m 28s):
home. I ain't got nothing against Ryan or anything. I just don't want AIDS in her

1 (20m 32s):
school State Health officials said It would be safe for Ryan to go back to school that aids couldn't be spread through casual contact but the local school board refused to admit him the white family sued and the legal battle continued for months Ryan finally won the right to go back to school the following year and he got a lot of publicity for his fight. He first captured people's hearts for years ago. When his battle with AIDS and his fight to remain in school became front-page news.

2 (20m 59s):
How do you think about the future door? Do you think ahead

1 (21m 2s):
well, I think I had I know I planned my future I plan to go to college and so forth, but We really just live one day at a

2 (21m 8s):
time. This Brave little boy was the not gay poster boy. We

1 (21m 14s):
needed back in San Francisco. Cleve Jones was still organizing and lobbying. He saw all the media coverage of Ryan White and realized

2 (21m 22s):
this boy could be acknowledged publicly in the way that Bobbi Campbell could never be acknowledged publicly because this boy wasn't gay. I hope that doesn't come across as detracting from or diminishing in any way the Bravery the courage of Ryan and of his family. I don't want to do that. But I think you know, we need to understand that. That's the reality we needed a poster

1 (21m 49s):
boy. Ryan's doctors underestimated him. He made it through middle school and into high school and as the 80s were on more and more people were getting diagnosed by the summer of 1989 100,000 people in the United States have the disease

2 (22m 9s):
public hospitals in urban areas were being overwhelmed by the number of people who were coming in to be treated

1 (22m 16s):
for AIDS. That's Tim Westmoreland again

2 (22m 18s):
hospital emergency rooms were completely Blocked me because there were so many people so that was bad enough. But it also meant that anybody who was not an aids-related illness. Somebody was in a car crash showed up in an emergency room and they couldn't get in

1 (22m 34s):
in the late 1980s most patients with AIDS had a grim prognosis and they had a lot of needs prescriptions counseling and of Life planning. A lot of those needs could be met outside the emergency room. So Tim helped write a new piece of of legislation to do that. It was a funding bill to help regions hit hardest by the virus money for prevention testing treatment counseling and outpatient care. It was a safety net program for people with HIV a way for the federal government to help cities and states cope with the epidemic. There was just hearings going on in 1990 when Ryan became very sick.

1 (23m 15s):
And of course Elton John was always by our side and he was there the last week and a half a Ryan's life at the hospital and everything and he was taking filtering phone calls from people from all around the world and Elton come and told me that he said this is a call. I think you should take it Senator Kennedy. So I got on the phone it was Senator Kennedy. He said we are having these hearings in DC here and nobody has brought. So much attention to this disease you said for the first time we have people caring about AIDS now, they're on the phone with Jeanne Senator Ted Kennedy described this new legislation the bill that Tim helped right? But back in Washington Tim heard that they faced a serious obstacle to pass it Senator Dan coats and he was from Indiana.

1 (24m 2s):
Mr.

2 (24m 2s):
Kennedy and his staff suggested naming the legislation for Ryan White who was from Indiana and making them quite literally a poster child for this legislation, even though it was not only for kids or only for hemophiliacs.

1 (24m 18s):
So when Senator Kennedy was on the phone with Jeanne, he said with your permission, we would like to name it the Ryan White Care Act. And at the time I said, that would be nice not ever really realizing how I normos that bill would eventually become but then I lost my son and a few weeks after Ryan passed away Senator Kennedy. Tell me again. He asked me if I would come to DC and talk to Senators. I said no I said Ryan did that not me. He said that we really need your voice. Ryan's death is so fresh on everybody's Minds. We have a chance to make a difference for people with AIDS now.

1 (24m 59s):
So Jeannie flew to Washington, she talked to senators all over capitol hill and in the end that Indiana Senator Dan coats voted in favor of the legislation.

2 (25m 9s):
He became sort of the linchpin vote for passage of Ryan

1 (25m 14s):
White. I asked him what he thought about naming the bill for Ryan Tim told me he admired him How brave he was. He said that Genie was a strong advocate for all patients with AIDS not just for children or haemophiliacs and

2 (25m 28s):
I sort of thought that it was okay if that's what the Senate needs then that's what we'll do my chairman. Mr. Waxman was actually surprised and I think disappointed that I had agreed to this. It didn't change the policies of the dollars or anything and

1 (25m 47s):
Henry said to me, you know, I know a

2 (25m 49s):
lot of people who've been sick and died and we're not naming it after them

1 (25m 54s):
Congressman Henry Waxman said as much on the floor of the house when the care it finally passed in August of 1990.

2 (26m 2s):
This bill now has been given the Senate title of the Ryan White Care Act Ryan White gave this epidemic of face in the mass media of the nation someone that we could all recognize admire for his courage and mourn and I would take this opportunity to do so, but I also want to take a few moments now to acknowledge that there are also thousands and thousands of other Americans are friends loved ones and fellow Citizens who have died and they deserve our recognition our admiration for their courage and our morning enclosing the consideration of this legislation. I would like to add just a few names of people who have died of AIDS some friends of mine and some friends of friends.

2 (26m 46s):
Mr. Speaker. Let us acknowledge Sheldon Adelson Melbourne has more friends of his some of the more former Witnesses. Some of them weren't even friends of mine that I'd asked him to add in. Andre Ebert Tito kasner Zach Kaufman our colleague Stuart McKinney

1 (27m 2s):
President, George HW Bush signed the bill into law on August 18th, 1990 and federal money started to move the following spring more than 200 million dollars went to cities and states for AIDS treatment education and prevention and that number continues to grow year after year by 2019. It was more than 2.2 billion dollars.

2 (27m 28s):
The Care Act funding was of incredible importance for all of the social services that were necessary at a time when so many people were getting so sick and dying these federal dollars were Lifesavers and it would be difficult to overstate the importance of that funding.

1 (27m 52s):
Cleve Jones found out that he was hiv-positive in 1985 when I talked to him last September, he told me

2 (27m 59s):
I certainly never imagined. I would live to be 40. Let alone I'm going to be 65 next

1 (28m 5s):
month. Thanks in part to the Ryan White Care Act AIDS prevention and treatment has changed dramatically since Cleaves diagnosis in 1995. Just that one year nearly 50,000 people in the United States died of AIDS in 2017 that Drop to just under 6,000. It's a remarkable success story and now Senator Elizabeth Warren wants to do the same thing for the opioid crisis. She's running for president with a bill modeled on Ryan White her Care Act would dramatically expand access to addiction treatment and overdose prevention. It would send billions of dollars to agencies like the NIH and the CDC for addiction research and training.

1 (28m 52s):
But will it take a poster boy to get it past the answer may depend on the poster boy. In the 1980's the Reagan Administration decided that it could ignore Bobbi Campbell without political consequences. They were right and the result was tragic.

2 (29m 11s):
If you want an example of the consequences of homophobia, look at millions of dead heterosexual men and women and their children all across this planet.

1 (29m 23s):
But elected officials realized they couldn't ignore a poster boy like Ryan White and after all those years fighting for federal legislation on AIDS Tim Westmoreland thinks of face. Like Ryan's might help pass legislation like Elizabeth Warren's what I

2 (29m 39s):
need to add. Let's do think I've Come Away not learning a lesson is that it was a stroke of Genius to name the legislation after Ryan White poster children actually do convince people. to do the right thing sometimes

1 (30m 10s):
thank you so much for listening. We'd really love to hear from you. So please send comments and questions to impact at vox.com or you can tweet us at hashtag impact podcast. If you enjoyed this episode, could you take a moment and leave us a review on Apple podcasts? It really helps other listeners find the show. The impacts editor is Amy drozd off ska our producer is Pinkerton this episode was mixed and scored by Jared Paul with help from Paul Mountain Z. We had music from Jukebox The Ghost and a p.m. A big big. Thank you to Sarah Kliff for trusting me with her podcast baby and for all her work on this episode and thank you to Professor Keith Humphreys Cliff Morrison.

1 (30m 54s):
No, I'm hassenfeld Herman Lopez Irina Gucci and dr. Owen Albin. Liz Nelson is vaux's editorial director for podcasts and thank you to Lorne cath Zack Khan and Marika bald Amberg for all their help with marketing and engagement. I'm Jillian Weinberger and the field reporting for this episode got a little emotional including my first encounter with Tim westmoreland's miniature dachshund puppy. Oh my God. Hello, sweetie. Talk to you next week.