0 (1s):
Mickey Mouse owns a lot of things. The mouse owns those guys.

1 (8s):
It's not easy being green.

0 (12s):
The mouse owns these guys. The mouse has this entire cinematic universe and this one, and the one with that lamp that jumps around. It'd probably be easier to talk about what Disney doesn't own, which is maybe fitting because Disney is now trying to at least kind of get rid of one of its darlings is ESPN for sale.

0 (54s):
Coming up on today's flight,

3 (1m 0s):
Hollywood writers and actors are still striking and one of the things they're fighting against is AI swooping in and taking their jobs. But truth is AI is already all over Hollywood.

4 (1m 13s):
You know, Harrison Ford has come out and said that he not only is okay with the de aging process that was used in the most recent Indiana Jones, but he thought it was skillfully done.

3 (1m 25s):
The fight over AI in TV and film. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop culture podcast

0 (1m 38s):
Today explained Sean Ramas firm here with Peter Kafka, host of the Recode Media podcast, the perfect person to ask, is Disney really looking to sell of all things ESPN?

5 (1m 53s):
No. Now, now add an asterisk. Add an asterisk that Sean, because the person who says no, we're not looking to sell ESPN is Bob Iger.

6 (2m 6s):
If you look at today's media landscape, sports stands very, very tall in terms of its ability to convene millions and millions of people all at once. And our position in that business is very unique and we want to stay in that business.

5 (2m 21s):
He's the c e O of Disney. He is one of the most admired people in media, but it also turns out that sometimes what he says out loud is not what actually happens. For instance, he famously couldn't find someone to replace him at Disney.

6 (2m 35s):
I'm expecting my contract to expire at the end of 2021. And I gonna say this time I mean it. But I've said that before.

5 (2m 44s):
And then right before the pandemic said, I found the perfect guy. I am leaving Disney.

6 (2m 48s):
In Bob Shaik. We have someone that not only knows the company very well, having run a few of our really important businesses, including Parks and Resorts, but he's also someone that we know very well. And we couldn't think of a better candidate to take over the company at this time.

5 (3m 3s):
And then less than a couple years later said, actually, I'm back. I'm now running Disney again.

6 (3m 7s):
I was not looking for a job and I was not anticipating that I would be asked back. But this is a company that I worked for for almost 50 years, a huge passion for the company. And I felt that, I guess I had a sense of obligation.

5 (3m 22s):
So Bob Iger iss not always consistent, but he has said, this is a long-winded answer. He does not want to sell ESPN. What he'd like to do is find a strategic partner for ESPN, which means he'd like someone to buy or invest in a portion of ESPN.

0 (3m 45s):
So is Bob Iger consciously uncoupling with ESPN.

5 (3m 49s):
Bob Iger is saying, we think ESPN is great. We just think someone else should also think it's great and come on board with us.

6 (3m 56s):
It's an advertiser's dream. There's a great demographic there. It lends itself to technology in many ways, both in terms of coverage, distribution, and consumption.

5 (4m 5s):
Meanwhile, Bob Iger has also said a lot of things that Disney owns today. We are not gonna own things like a B, C, huh? One of the three broadcast networks, things like some of our cable channels, A lot of stuff is now for sale. And one of those things is not ESPN, but we would like to maybe sell part of ESPN, which is a big deal.

7 (4m 24s):
Meaning that they're not core to Disney,

6 (4m 27s):
That they may not be core to Disney. Yeah. Now there's clearly creativity and content that they create that is core to Disney, but the distribution model, the business model that forms the underpinning of that business and that has delivered great profits over the years is definitely broken. And we have to, we and, and we have to call it like it is. And that's part of the transformative work we're doing. What

0 (4m 47s):
Does it mean to want to find a strategic partner for the biggest sports network in America?

5 (4m 55s):
So on the one hand, we don't exactly know, he left it very open, very vague. There's a lot of guessing among analysts, among media about what he means. Does he actually wanna sell a piece of it? If so, what would a, who would investor be? Is it a sports league? Is it a company that's a professional investment company? Is it a tech company or maybe a gambling company? You can imagine anything right now. So we don't really know what it means. On the other hand, the fact that he is saying, Hey, this thing that we used to keep for ourselves because it was the linchpin of the entire Disney business is now less. So, wow, that's a big deal for him to say out loud because you could see that if you were outside the company and paying attention.

5 (5m 36s):
But it's another thing for the person running the company to say, yeah, this, this thing is not what it used to be.

0 (5m 42s):
Huh? Let's talk about what ESPN used to be. Peter. Let's talk about where ESPN came from. 'cause it wasn't always big. It started small and and not important, right?

6 (5m 56s):
Hello,

8 (5m 57s):
I'm Jim Simpson, and for the next few minutes we're going to be telling you all about ESPN. Its concept, its physical plant, and what it can mean for you.

5 (6m 7s):
It started so unimportant that there was literally nothing to watch on other than obscure sports like strong Men contest where dudes with like throw logs around

9 (6m 18s):
Jeff Capes getting up over 30 seconds, better than a half minute 31.

5 (6m 23s):
If you're old like me, you remember ESPN is the home of something called Australia Rules Football. I

10 (6m 29s):
By one of you days, Hey guys,

11 (6m 31s):
The people could care less about the rules and how you score. They just want to see people kill each other.

5 (6m 36s):
Just random stuff that no one else would show an ESPN show because they had nothing else to show. And then for a while, ESPN became important because it's became the place where you could find out the sports scores from today. And amazingly as it sounds, that wasn't easy to find that some other way. And eventually over time, they grew in dominance. They sort of became sports. It became where you watched sports, you learned about sports. Anchors on ESPN became really important cultural figures. This is the late eighties, early to mid nineties, up to the late nineties, first

12 (7m 12s):
Quarter. It is Christmas, come right on time for Sean Elliott back from nowhere. He hit six for six in the first quarter. The pet shop operator in San Antonio from everywhere on the court. Bang, bang, bang, bang, bang. That's

5 (7m 25s):
All over. And it's been over for some time.

0 (7m 30s):
At like peak ESPN, how successful was the network? When exactly was peak ESPN?

5 (7m 36s):
I would peg peak. Peak ESPN actually at, there's two peaks. One is sort of the cultural peak when it mattered. What someone like Stewart Scott said when he was announcing a an N B, A highlight P

13 (7m 47s):
To Mike, Michael, Michael, Michael. Can't you see? Sometimes your threes just hypnotize me despite being sick and not being able to walk. Mike at 38.27.

5 (7m 56s):
So that's mid the late nineties. And then throughout the 2000 tens, because even though the cable business was starting to like be under real pressure, and we'll get to a discussion about that, ESPN was printing money. It used all that money to acquire sports rights from everything from the N F L Major League baseball, N B A. So ESPN now owned all of the big sports. It could afford to pay More than any other competitor. Usually he was competing against Rupert, Murdoch and Fox. And so you kind of had to watch ESPN if you cared about sports at all. And it bought up all those rights. And it was basically unopposed. And especially in the 2000 tens as people started to talk about something called cord cutting or just never getting the cord at all i e people coming outta college and not paying for cable tv.

5 (8m 44s):
And the entire TV ecosystem looked threatened. ESPN actually became more powerful because everyone said, sure, maybe the kids today aren't gonna pay for certain cable networks, but they're always, always gonna wanna watch sports. They're always gonna have to get ESPN. Even if you don't want to get ESPN, you are gonna pay for cable, and ESPN will be part of that package. And so ESPN will be sort of untouched by the technological changes that are starting to nip at the heels of the TV business. ESPN won't be touched by that. And people really thought that. People really believed that for many years. And then in 2015, Bob Iger, who was then the C e O of Disney said, actually we're starting to lose some subscribers at ESPN.

5 (9m 26s):
And that just set off alarms throughout the, the executive suites all over the country and all over the world. Hmm. Because what he was saying is this thing that like has not affected us. Actually, it turns out it affects us at all. The fact that people are not paying for TV anymore, that now affects ESPN and that has snowballed since.

6 (9m 43s):
And so we feel long-term ESPN will be just fine, but we refuse to have our head in the sand or be pollyannish about what we're seeing in the marketplace. And others may be seeing things differently, but we believe that there's disruption going on and there's more disruption ahead. And

5 (10m 1s):
We're year after year, ESPN would mint money because it was a money printing machine because everyone paid for cable. Whether or not you knew it or liked it, if you got cable, you were paying for ESPN. They had the higher, highest, what are called retransmission fees. And you don't need to know what they are except you're paying for them when you pay your cable bill. So everyone was paying for sports whether or not they liked it, which meant ESPN was just a geyser of cash and it was a great place to be during the 2000 tens.

0 (10m 30s):
And what starts to change around 2015. It's the thing that we're seeing now where people just don't want cable anymore. Yep. Millennials kill it.

5 (10m 39s):
I don't know. Sean, are you paying for cable tv?

0 (10m 41s):
No. Peter, I'm not. Well, there

5 (10m 42s):
You go. You're the problem. It's me. I still am. A lot of people pay for cable TV still today in 20 23, 60 some million, 70 some million, depends how you count them. But at its peak, it was a hundred million. So you could, any business that that loses 30% of it subscriber base has a big problem. But for years, the thought was, all right, even if the TV universe is shrinking, that actually only increases ESPN's importance. But now we're getting to the point where people are saying, no, we really don't need ESPN and we don't wanna pay more for ESPN. Whether it's a consumer or whether it's a cable company trying to sell that to a consumer. And now you have the real specter of people saying, maybe ESPN won't be part of the cable bundle anymore.

5 (11m 24s):
Maybe it'll be something that if you love sports, you'll pay for, you'll pay a lot for and everyone else won't.

0 (11m 30s):
Is it just the cable cutting or are there other factors involved here?

5 (11m 34s):
I mean, it's kind of as simple as the cable cutting. I mean it's a, the bigger story is it's just the way we've changed how we consume and pay for our entertainment. But the short version is, is again, lots of people used to pay for cable, their parents did. And when they got outta college, people like you, Sean would pay for cable as well. And now you don't because now you probably got a subscription to Netflix, I'm guessing, and maybe HBO slash HBO Max slash max. You, you tell me. And then you're probably getting a lot of free stuff from YouTube and TikTok and it doesn't occur to you that you need to buy a bundle of dozens of channels, several of which are ESPN. 1, 2, 3, 4.

0 (12m 16s):
You know, I do love though, Peter is when I'm at home at my mom's house, she's got all the ESPN and I love just sitting down on the couch and watching cable.

5 (12m 24s):
There you go. Sean's mom. Perfect

Rocket Money (12m 40s):
Support for the show today comes from Rocket Money. What's better than money? Rocket Money. My words not theirs. Between apps, streaming services and digital publications, the price of your subscriptions can add up fast. It's easy to lose track of where your money is going. You might be spending More than you realize. In fact, according to a 2022 survey, the average monthly cost of subscriptions was over a hundred dollars More than what consumers thought they were paying. Enter Rocket Money, a solution for keeping your subscriptions in. Check. Rocket Money is a personal finance app that finds and cancels your unwanted subscription, monitors your spending, and helps you lower your bills all in one place. Stop throwing your money away. You can cancel unwanted subscriptions and manage your expenses the easy way by going to rocket money.com/explained. That's rocket money.com/explained.

Unexplainable podcast (13m 44s):
Wolves and dogs are pretty closely related. They actually share 99.9% of their genetics Yo sniffles. But even when they're just a few months old, even when they're raised by human scientists, wolves are pretty different from dogs. They start biting you in the ears, which you find down if you don't sit up fast enough and you hear this wonderful noise, these little, and then they chomp you in the ear and you're like, oh. And when they grow up, these differences get even bigger. Dogs are our friends. Wolves are hunters. If I had a sore shoulder, I wouldn't go in with the adult wolves, even if I'd raised them because it could trigger their hunting behavior This week on unexplainable, how did we get the nice friendly dogs we know and love today from wolves? Follow unexplainable. Wherever you listen for new episodes every Wednesday

16 (14m 43s):
I'm kind of psychic. I have a pit sense. What do you mean? It's like I have ESPN or something.

0 (14m 51s):
Today Explained is back. We're still here with Peter Kafka host of Recode Media senior correspondent at Vox Peter. If this is the end of the ESPN era where if you want sports, you know where you're going, ESPN 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, whatever. What's coming next?

5 (15m 11s):
Starting to see signs of it now where the people who own sports rides are saying This stuff we have is really valuable still. And for some reason we're able to extract even more money out of it. And we can talk about whether that's gonna continue, but we're gonna slice these rights up even more. So if you wanna watch all the N F L games this year, you can't just watch broadcast tv. You can't just watch broadcast TV plus ESPN. You also have to have Amazon Prime video. Prime

17 (15m 39s):
Video isn't changing the football, just the way you watch it this season. Thursday night football will stream exclusively prime video.

5 (15m 47s):
Eventually they're gonna slice those rights up some more and you'll have to go to six or seven different places to watch the N F L games. I got into English premiered League soccer in the last year or so, and I am now paying by my count at least three streaming services to watch all my Liverpool games.

0 (16m 4s):
Oh my goodness. I hate it. You hate it. I hate it. I I, I don't hate premiered league. Heck, you could

5 (16m 10s):
Fill

0 (16m 10s):
Two Internets with what I don't know about football.

5 (16m 13s):
Here's my argument. I am happy to pay for the thing I want. Yes. Because that means I'm not paying for this stuff I don't want, and not everyone does this and I don't do it as much as I should, but you know, right now there's no English premiered or soccer that's gonna start up again in the near future. But I didn't have to pay for Paramount and ESPN Plus and Hulu to watch that stuff 'cause it wasn't running This summer. So I could have turned all that off if I wanted to and I didn't 'cause I'm lazy and stupid. But you could've.

0 (16m 43s):
But as much as we like all grew to hate at and t and Spectrum and Verizon and all the other cable titans and how much money we had to give them because we had this sort of monopolistic tendency when it came to these cable packages. Yes. Now we gotta shell out money to like 10 different telecommunications behemoths. Yep. And is it in some more money than We were paying before?

5 (17m 9s):
No. I mean yes, if you want to have everything that's made, but there's a lot more stuff that's being made period. Right? Yeah. And there's a lot more stuff that's being broadcast. So you didn't, I didn't have the option to watch every English Premiered League game back in the days because I had to hope that ESPN or some other network in my cable bundle had it. And if it didn't, that was it. I had no other choice. And this extends to everything you watch, not just sports, you don't have to pay for it all 'cause you don't have to watch it all. If you do wanna watch it all, yes, your bill could be More than the old cable days, but it's your choice about what you want to pick and choose. We all have short memories so people won't remember, but in the days before, you could get H B O Max or H B O go whatever it was called, the only way you could watch H B O is if you already had a cable TV subscription and then you had H B O on top of that.

5 (17m 55s):
Yeah. And that was just to watch Game of Thrones. And people found that intolerable and they were right. So I'd argue that that as consumers we're much better off having an a la carte menu than having to do the prefix if that's not too fancy a term to drop. But

0 (18m 8s):
If you're like a person who wants to watch, you know, the Women's World Cup and like the N B A playoffs and like N B A Summer league and, and who knows, like the Olympics, what next year or whatever it is, like how much money are you gonna be shelling out if you're just like a general sports enthusiast?

5 (18m 35s):
If you have a subscription to something that used to be called Cable TV or is now like I get Hulu Live tv, which is just cable TV without an actual cable. Those prices keep going up. They were 50 bucks a couple years ago. And basically every, every year I get a note from Disney saying, Hey, it costs five bucks more. And you just, like it used to happen with cable tv, they would raise prices and you couldn't do anything about it. So now we're looking at, I don't know, 70, 80, a hundred bucks. You're getting back to sort of where you were, what you were spending for cable TV back in the day. But again, there was no chance of you watching the N B A Summer League back in the old days of cable tv 'cause there was no space for it. There was no audience for it. Hmm. Now you have these streaming services, these niches that people will pay for.

5 (19m 17s):
you know, there's, I get ESPN plus I watch again premiered League soccer on that. There's lots of other super obscure stuff on there that I don't care about college lacrosse, but someone wants to co watch college lacrosse and some of the people are paying to watch college lacrosse or mixed martial arts, right? U F C, that's a big driver there.

18 (19m 36s):
Drive from Las Vegas, it's to Las Vegas International Dodge Ball opened here on ESPN eight. The O Joe bringing you the fights in seldom scene sports from around the globe since 1999. If it's almost a sport, we've got it here.

5 (19m 52s):
Hello again. I don I don't care about that stuff at all. But some people do. And so there's a, you can buy into it if you want and yes, I sound like I'm shilling for big tv, but it really is a better world for us, the consumer than it used to be.

0 (20m 4s):
Well, so if, if ESPN and, and Disney are losing here, Peter who is winning right now, the

5 (20m 11s):
Leagues are winning in the near term because they keep raising the, the prices that they're charging the people like ESPN and now Apple and Amazon. Okay,

19 (20m 20s):
So the N F L's getting 2.6 billion allegedly from ESPN per year for seven years. The N H L is getting two some billion from the same company. Obviously this is good for the N H L, seems like this is gonna be good for ESPN.

5 (20m 33s):
One example is the N B A Right now, the N B A rights are owned by two companies. One is Disney slash ESPN, the other is Warner Brothers Discovery slash Turner. They pay collectively around $3 billion a year to show N B A games. That deal is coming up for renegotiation. And the N B A is floating a price of like seven to $8 billion. Wow.

20 (20m 57s):
N B C Universal, our parent company of course preparing to make a quote, aggressive offer to win back N B A broadcasting rights after More than a 20 year hiatus. The Apple Amazon have also expressed interest in buying rights. Still unclear what the ultimate price tag would

5 (21m 12s):
Be. So if you are an N B A team owner or a player that's great for everybody else. Maybe not so great. And for companies like Disney and Warner Brothers, they're saying, wait, we're gonna go from paying three to eight, we're under pressure. Are we actually even gonna be able to pay that? No. Like who, how is that can, can we afford to give it up? That's, that's where the sports leagues think they have the TV networks of saying, yeah, we're raising the prices and if you don't like it, see how you like life as a television network without sports. So they're kind of playing a game of chicken right now.

0 (21m 44s):
So do you think ESPN and Bob Iger and some strategic partner that remains to be seen could somehow salvage what they have, which is still the strongest position? Or do you think this is just the gradual end of this glorious cable era that was a cash cow and universal and gave us our monoculture

5 (22m 10s):
It managed decline? Mm Right. ESPN in its weakened position still throws off $4 billion in profit a year. Mm. There are very few companies, let alone media companies that can do that. You can do a lot with $4 billion in profit every year. If that number continues to shrink, that's a problem for them. But it's a problem many people would like to have, right? They're still throwing off money, you know, you can debate and no one really knows what Bob Iger is thinking about when he is talking about investors and partners, whether he wants a sports league. There's some logic to that. There's some other problems with that idea. And we don't really know whether he's saying I need some money or I want some sort of partnership that's gonna help me beyond cash, that's gonna help me structurally somehow.

5 (22m 54s):
So that's why there's just a ton of speculation about what he's actually trying to pull off there.

6 (22m 58s):
If they come to the table with value, whether it's, whether it's content value, whether it's distribution value, whether it's capital, whether it just helps de-risk a business to some extent. But that's not, wouldn't be the primary driver,

5 (23m 10s):
But, but he is saying, look, I've got this thing. It's not as shiny and powerful as it used to be, otherwise it would've kept it for myself. It's less, it's a used car, got miles on it, but there's still some value. Would you like to be a partial owner of this used car? Which will go down in value over the years, but it's still a, still a functioning car.

0 (23m 27s):
You know who's really like the biggest losey here though? Peter?

5 (23m 31s):
You

0 (23m 31s):
My uncle in Toronto, he's a diehard footy fan. Yeah. And he's just like not tech savvy and he doesn't have any streaming services. He's just an old school cable guy and one by one Apple and all the rest are taking all his leagues away and he can't watch footy

5 (23m 51s):
Sean. What kind of nephew are you? Can't you go help the guy? He's got internet, right? He's

0 (23m 57s):
All the way in Canada. He,

5 (23m 58s):
They, they have planes. I have been to Canada the last couple years. You get on a plane, you bring a Roku box, you plug it in, you, you walk 'em through this stuff. you know the, in my days it was teaching your parents how to program the clock on the V C R. These things are doable. But I will say that leagues, think about your uncle when they do these deals, which is why none of the leagues, none of the big leagues, none of N F L N B A M L B have gone all in on digital because they do want your uncle, they want to have as large a reach as possible. Which is why so many games are still on broadcast TV or cable tv because that is where the most people are and where it's still easiest for them to reach them.

5 (24m 42s):
So you're not gonna see Apple or Amazon just hoover up an entire major league entirely. And I, although Major League Soccer people are gonna complain that that's what Apple did with them. But that's not a major league, no offense. Alright,

0 (24m 56s):
You've guilted me. I'm heading to Toronto at my earliest convenience. Peter of House Kafka. Every week he does a show about the media. It's called Recode Media. Are you listening? Why wouldn't you find it? Wherever you find today Explained except on the radio, I don't think his show's on the radio yet. Recent guests include Black mirrors Charlie Booker and Lena Kahn, who runs the F T c Hady. Mawajdeh made our show today. He had helped from Matthew Collette's, floor Bullard and Patrick Boyd Sports.