0 (0s):
Today explained Sean Ram firm here with Jen Kirby who reports on the world for Vox and Jen, you are out in the world. You are in Germany in September, though I hear you just went to Octoberfest.

1 (13s):
Yes, I just went to the first Octoberfest since the pandemic

2 (18s):
The,

1 (22s):
So it was very crowded, but it is in fact cold in Munich and people were really upset about it.

4 (30s):
So unfortunately with the energy crisis, no heat lamps this year. Therefore you see in the beer garden, there is not a single person. Does

0 (39s):
Looming energy crisis already feel real at Octoberfest 2022 An abandoned beer garden. No heat lamps.

1 (46s):
It does actually, it's one of the cutbacks.

4 (48s):
But as enough beer goes in her tummy, I think she will warm up automatically.

0 (54s):
The looming energy crisis in Europe ahead on today explain

5 (60s):
The case of a missing. Indigenous Alaska women sparks new questions about other missing and murdered indigenous women. But when the cops stop looking, a team of local journalists step in to bring the truth to light, that's where ABC's thrilling new drama Alaska Daily begins. And where it's headed will have you on the edge of your seat. Starring two time Oscar winner, Hillary Swank Grace Dove and scandals Jeff Perry Alaska Daily premieres Thursday, October 6th on ABC and Stream. Next day on Hulu,

2 (1m 37s):
There's

3 (1m 37s):
A big new gay movie out and one of its stars says when you're making a gay movie that you want straight people to watch you tread carefully.

6 (1m 46s):
Are you familiar with the concept of Shonda sort? Sam,

0 (1m 51s):
Tell

3 (1m 52s):
Me all about that.

6 (1m 53s):
It's a Yiddish phrase and it's basically means you're embarrassing us. In front of the Gentiles,

3 (1m 58s):
We unpack the new romcom bros on into it. Vultures Pop Culture podcast

0 (2m 21s):
Today explained On Monday, the Danish government discovered leaks in the Nord Stream one and Nord Stream two pipelines. If you're not familiar, these are critical natural gas highways that run under the Baltic Sea from Russia to Germany this morning, a diplomat over at the European Union said it was a deliberate act.

7 (2m 44s):
The lakes do raise concern about the possible sabotage as Europe faces a growing energy crisis.

0 (2m 50s):
Ukraine says it was Russia. Russia says it was the United States. Either way, it's making a bad energy situation in Europe. Worse,

8 (3m 1s):
After experiencing record breaking heat, parts of Europe are going dark. It's just the latest fallout from the continent's ongoing energy crisis driven by the war in Ukraine.

9 (3m 11s):
People are being urged to cut their energy use by showering less and turning off the lights.

10 (3m 16s):
We're trying to figure out exactly whether or not this is gonna be a short term blip, whether we can manage it over the next few weeks and then we're gonna stabilize or whether this is something we're gonna have to live with throughout most of this winter. Here in Europe,

0 (3m 36s):
We wanted to find out how Europeans are feeling about this looming energy crisis. So we reached out to V's. Jen Kirby, who's in Germany. She went to Octoberfest where she was sure to find a lot of people to talk to. A lot of people with no heat lamps.

1 (3m 51s):
The heat lamps are just one sign that Europe is facing a looming energy crisis as winter approaches. The energy crisis is kind of a, in many ways a a long brewing thing driven by a lot of different factors, the return to the world after Covid, supply chain snarls. But of course with the war in Ukraine, things got really serious as the United States and Europe in particular sanctioned certain types of Russian energy like oil, which also increased the prices. And now Putin has basically turned off the taps.

12 (4m 25s):
Germany's Chancellor Schultz insists his country can make it through the winter without Russian gas, but Europe will need to reorganize its energy supplies.

0 (4m 33s):
When the war started, there was a lot of talk about the energy implications for Europe. Remind us what happened at the outset.

1 (4m 40s):
Koon had started to reduce the amount of natural gas he was sending to Europe last year, even before he invaded Ukraine.

13 (4m 48s):
Critics say gas prom, which has close ties to the Kremlin, is keeping delivery volumes low in order to put pressure on the eu.

1 (4m 55s):
That was a cause for alarm, but it didn't necessarily get Europe or European countries that are rely on Russian natural gas to totally change their ways. But then in February, Putin invaded Ukraine.

14 (5m 11s):
The price of oil surge over $100 a barrel in hours after Russia launched the attack, gas prices across Europe soared by more than 30%.

1 (5m 21s):
Things started to get really serious, both as energy prices increased and western sanctions on Russia made it potentially more likely that Putin would retaliate in July. Nord Stream one, which is a major pipeline that goes from Russia to Germany. Putin claimed that turbines had to go through maintenance and so he basically slowed that pipeline to a trickle and essentially never really turned the taps back on. And even though European countries were prepared for this scenario, to some degree it's still hitting the continent hard.

0 (5m 53s):
How much natural gas was Europe getting from Russia before Putin turned off the taps?

1 (5m 59s):
Europe is getting about 40% of its natural gas from Russia,

0 (6m 3s):
40%

1 (6m 4s):
And it's now down to 9%. So it's a big drop.

0 (6m 8s):
And how critical was that 40% to daily life in Europe?

1 (6m 12s):
It is critical. It is what industries rely on to manufacture goods and to do business. It helps heat homes and provide electricity for, you know, regular households. So it's vitally important and what Europe has sought to do and countries within Europe like Germany, is to find alternative sources, which means going out and buying lng, liquified natural gas from other places around the world and trying to, you know, increase its supplies from countries like Norway and trying to find alternative sources to replace that Russian gas. But that comes at a cost.

15 (6m 49s):
The price rises so huge that even in outwardly affluent towns like Stratford middle income in the middle of England, energy anxiety will become a mainstream economic experience.

0 (7m 1s):
How expensive we target,

1 (7m 2s):
It's expensive. If you think about the global market, how energy itself is more expensive and Europe does have the means and the ability to go out and buy natural gas at a premium, but that cost has to be passed on somewhere. And for example in Germany, one of the debates they're having right now is this 400 euro tax that'll be passed on to consumers to help pay for the increased costs of natural gas. So these countries that had relied on cheap, cheap energy from Russia all of a sudden got a real rude awakening.

0 (7m 33s):
How's this gone over so far in Europe? I mean it was just summer where people feeling the pinch or were they traveling as normal

1 (7m 41s):
Industry has been hit particularly hard as the cost of energy has gone up and some of them have had to cut back on manufacturing

16 (7m 49s):
One German aluminum factory is taking drastic action to deal with the mounting gas crisis. The 200 year old GA roers facility is due to be temporarily shut down.

0 (8m 1s):
How are European economies faring so far? I mean in in the United States obviously we're talking a lot about inflation and and potential recession. What's up over

1 (8m 11s):
There? Inflation is pretty bad here. You see it in not just you know, the energy cost but also for other things like food. And there are real fears of a potential recession as well, especially if some of these cutbacks on energy hit industry really hard.

17 (8m 29s):
It was an IMF report to date significantly downgrading global growth this year, which pointed out that in the European space there could be even further downgrades should things get really difficult this winter. The ripple effect of this Russian war on Ukraine is really being felt in the heart of Europe.

1 (8m 52s):
And you're starting to see it already. There are companies who say their energy costs are so high that they're gonna have to pass them onto consumers, which of course will mean that consumers have to pay more. And so there's a real concern about the state of the European economy and how hard it might be hit by compiling crises.

18 (9m 10s):
Small businesses negotiating new energy contracts with suppliers face a four or five fold increase compared with prices negotiated two years ago.

1 (9m 19s):
People were starting to realize that this energy crisis was coming and people talked about what might happen in the fall and governments across Europe instituted campaigns to try to help people cut back on energy. French

19 (9m 32s):
Prime Minister Elizabeth Borne also telling companies they need to come up with their own energy sobriety plan next month as power shortages loom.

1 (9m 40s):
The EU itself had come up with plans to help European countries cut back on energy consumption. So there's definitely a mobilization in Europe, but I don't know, people were going on vacation and people were traveling. I can say for a fact here in Germany, nobody answered my emails in August cuz they were all in Italy or in Greece. So

0 (10m 0s):
What are people in Germany saying?

1 (10m 3s):
The reaction from people in Germany? I talk to people in Munich and Berlin has been mixed. You know, people are definitely aware that a crisis is coming but they're not really sure what they should do about it. I asked one guy, Christian, if he's done anything to prepare for a potentially cold and dark winter with high energy prices.

20 (10m 21s):
I didn't really make any preparations so that I have my jacket and

1 (10m 27s):
If for German consumers they do their energy bills a little bit different, Some people negotiate their contracts for in advance, so they might be actually having a pretty good deal where others might have just negotiated it and may have like really high prices. And I talked to a few experts who basically said, look, it depends on what kind of house you have, if you're a homeowner, if you're a renter. But in a lot of cases people really don't know what their energy consumption is until like the end of the year. So in many ways if this is for this winter, you won't really know until next year. And what a lot of households do is they pay like an estimated fee of what they think their consumption might look like so that when they tally it up at the end of the year they'll either maybe overpay and so they'll get money back or maybe they'll owe some.

1 (11m 13s):
So what a lot of people are doing is maybe paying a lot more in advance so that they can prepare for higher energy bills. But of course not everyone can afford to do that. But I talked to one person at October Fest who was trying to make sure that they were prepared for these increased energy bills. Oh, so you paid what

4 (11m 31s):
Triple what you normally pay in a month? Exactly. We started out about with 160 euros and now we pay about 500 each month. So that's quite an increase.

1 (11m 43s):
And I think part of it is, you know, people don't know what's coming this winter and we've gone through two years of the pandemic here where they've already sort of been asked to to sacrifice and prepare and so they're being pretty circumspect about what's to come this winter. We

21 (11m 57s):
Are conscious about it, but we don't want to be too focused in this moment other otherwise after Corona and everything, you know, you can feel terrified about everything. So we are starting to leave day by day knowing what is happening and trying to be more positive as we can, you know, this is our position about it.

0 (12m 19s):
Hmm. I feel that

22 (12m 20s):
It could be that I'm totally oblivious really to the seriousness of the situation. That's, that's also a possibility that I'm not really aware just how much of a crisis this is, but maybe at the moment I'm just experiencing blind faith or optimism that everything will be okay.

1 (12m 39s):
So that was Steve from Berlin who expressed a sentiment that I heard from a few people, which is basically that they think the government is handling this pretty well and that they'll be able to give them the support they need to to get through this crisis. So what are, what are your feelings or are you worried about anything about the energy crisis?

22 (13m 2s):
Yes, a little bit. You know, it's, it's, it's a big topic in the news. So yeah, a little bit worried

1 (13m 11s):
Why just a little bit

22 (13m 14s):
Because I think the government here is really working towards mitigating serious difficulties for people like me, you know, or just regular people is what I mean by that. And I think they will probably manage it. I guess I have faith in the, in those in power

0 (13m 44s):
More with Jen on why the Germans have faith in their government in a minute on today. Explained

23 (14m 3s):
Kara Swisher here. You may know me as the person who made Mark Zuckerberg's sweat. Push Kim Kardashian to talk dollars or got Secretary Mayor Pete Buttigieg to eat a juicy strawberry live on stage. Okay, that one was awkward, but that's what I like to do. Make powerful people comfortable with being uncomfortable. Now I'll be doing that on my new show from New York magazine on with Kara Swisher. We'll bring you news and the news makers I'm paying attention to and we'll do it twice a week on Mondays and Thursdays. Go check it out on with Kara Swisher wherever you get your podcasts.

24 (14m 41s):
Hey folks, I wanna tell you about another show that I have heard is amazing. It's called, This is Love. It's a podcast that takes a very broad view of love sharing stories, not just about romance, but also about people doing strange things that mean a lot to them. Like someone who digs up old backyard outhouses to find hidden treasure and a group of people desperately trying to keep one type of tree alive. Some of the stories are really funny. There's an episode about a guy who puts on a huge pair of fake feet and makes tracks up and down the beach. He spends decades fooling his neighbors and some of the stories are heartwarming. They have won about a man who found a baby on a subway platform.

24 (15m 21s):
Listen for stories about love and all of the surprising forms it can take. You can subscribe to this is Love wherever you get podcasts.

20 (15m 35s):
I didn't really get, make any preparation so that I have my jacket.

0 (15m 40s):
Jen Kirby Munich, The City, not the Spielberg movie. How has the German government made people feel like they got their backs during this impending crisis in Europe?

1 (15m 52s):
Well the German government has agreed to cut gas consumption by about 15% between basically now and March of next year to avoid gas shortages, spiraling prices, which is a target that the European Union has set.

25 (16m 11s):
Ministers agreed on voluntary reduction of EU gas consumption by at least 15% compared to its average consumption during the same period over the previous five years. Today we are sending a strong signal.

2 (16m 31s):
The

1 (16m 31s):
Government has taken a lot of other measures, some which seem kind of quaint, but maybe when added together they make a difference. So things like public buildings, not hospitals, but other public buildings are supposed to be heated to, you know, a maximum of of 19 degrees Celsius like monuments and statues. They're not lit up at night anymore. So if you're like trying to tour the city at night, everything is dark. In Munich where I live right now, street lights are turned off at odd hours to save energy, which can be a bit precarious if you're trying to cross the street in a a weird area. Swimming pools, the temperatures are turned down a few degrees. I talked to a person at the swimming pool, she said some people complained about it, but some people like the colder temperatures, saunas are turned off.

1 (17m 16s):
So they're all these little measures in addition to these larger campaigns which are just encouraging people to cut back on energy. So colder showers are to take shorter showers, which I have not abided by, sorry, Germany.

0 (17m 30s):
Wow. You're taking log hot showers when they have an energy crisis. Jen? Typical American.

1 (17m 37s):
I am a typical American. I don't know what sacrifice means.

0 (17m 41s):
That's dang for sure. Wow, okay. You're gonna get America canceled. Are the Germans better at making the sacrifices? Are they doing a better job than Jen Kirby?

1 (17m 51s):
I think so. I mean, I've talked to folks who are doing things like making sure that, you know, the lights are turned off when they leave the room and you know, they don't know if this is actually gonna make a difference, but they feel like they should try.

4 (18m 4s):
So instead of showering the kids every day they skip a day and we've cut the water temperature down as well from 60 degrees, which we used to have, which was nice and toasty back to 42, which is a little bit chillier. Yeah,

1 (18m 18s):
Like are you taking any measures like shorter showers or anything like that or,

22 (18m 22s):
Yeah, yeah, I guess so. I'm, I'm inclined to be very like economic with energy in the first place. You know, like I'm unplugging things overnight. Definitely taking shorter showers. I was thinking of getting rid of our freezer completely because I don't, I think we can live without a freezer quite comfortably and this thing is just taking up energy the whole time in the background. Shout

0 (18m 50s):
Outs to Steve who's just generally trying to do this, which feels like a good policy considering even if there isn't a war in Ukraine, there isn't a climate emergency gen that

1 (18m 60s):
Is true. And I would say that Germans in general are way more energy conscious than Americans. And so I think a lot of other people in Germany are trying to work that idea into everyday life. Or how are you preparing for a potential energy crisis

21 (19m 14s):
Concretely, of course we are a family so we try to also to explain and teach to our daughter what to do in order to consume less, but not only about energy, about everything, you know, also talking about a minimum life about everything. No. Or do

0 (19m 34s):
You know this is working, Jen? Are these personal sacrifices of, of, of German citizens amounting too much?

1 (19m 43s):
I think it's really hard to say right now because again, we're still just exiting summer and so it's all well and good to kind of cut back on your energy now. But the real question is what's gonna happen in the winter when energy demand goes way, way up And you know, the German government has taken steps to try to ease the pressure and the cost on people. They've passed many aid packages to try to give, you know, household say money back. But I do think that there's a question if some of the policies that they put in like giving people money will actually encourage them to reduce demand. And so there's a balance there between trying to ease the burden on people but also really making it clear to people that they just can't use the same amount of energy that they always have.

0 (20m 28s):
How is this affecting how Germany thinks about energy in the long term?

1 (20m 34s):
What is clear is that the German government reacted pretty quickly to this again by, you know, they're rapidly building floating LNG terminals.

26 (20m 42s):
The development of an infrastructure for liquified natural gas LNG with a landing term will connect Germany much better to the global gas markets than before. The strengthens competition between global gas sources and is beneficial to the end consumer in Germany,

1 (20m 57s):
Which also have like hydrogen. So if when that technology becomes available. So they are trying to think ahead about what a future will look like without cheap Russian natural gas. But industry and the country has been dependent on it for so long that there's obviously going to be growing pains. You know, one thing that the German government has done is to try to restart coal production even though they're trying to stay committed to their climate goals. We

27 (21m 23s):
Decided to make it easy for companies to do the fuel switch so that they can go from gas to oil, coal with legislative support.

1 (21m 31s):
And of course there's been a debate about extending nuclear power, which we're supposed to be phasing out at the end of this year.

27 (21m 39s):
And we decided that the to nuclear plants and the in the south of Germany could continue to produce electricity in general February of March if necessary.

1 (21m 48s):
And so there's a lot of debates about what this energy future will look like both in the short term to get through this crisis, but also the long term when the German government remains committed to energy and climate goals.

0 (22m 3s):
How prepared is the German government for the worst case scenario?

1 (22m 9s):
I mean, in many ways I think that's a little bit uncertain. I talked to a lot of experts who said, Look, Germany has kind of hit these consumption targets so far.

27 (22m 17s):
So this question of supply is as it looks like soft.

1 (22m 24s):
And if they continue at this pace, it looks like maybe they'll be able to withstand the winter. It might not be the most pleasant winter in the world, but Germany could, should maybe get through it. That's a lot of uncertainty still. Like what if there's a really, really, really cold winter, we don't really know what this winter is going to look like until it's here and, and what it might even look like next winter, which could be just as bad. But a lot of experts I spoke to said they don't necessarily know if European governments have totally prepared their populations for just how much demand has to go down. And so that's a real open question. I think the lesson of the Nord Stream pipeline leaks is that European energy infrastructure is pretty vulnerable and Europe as a whole does not have a lot of margin of error to make up its supply if something goes wrong.

1 (23m 14s):
You know, I didn't have sabotage on my bingo card of things that could go wrong, but maybe I should have. One thing Vladimir Putin is banking on is that people will be really angry that their energy bills are going up or that they're, you know, potentially freezing during the winter. And that will create a backlash to some of the European union's policies against Russia. There's a real question about the political and social stability in Europe that I would say governments are probably worried about. They're trying to assure their populations that they have it well in hand, but we really just don't know what's to come.

4 (24m 0s):
I think they're trying the best. I think it's quite interesting to see that some people really don't care at all and sort of stick the head in the sand. And others are very, very concerned, like elderly people. My neighbors, they are very frightened. They live on a certain budget and if you know energy prices have tripled, I don't know how they can make it.

0 (24m 34s):
Thanks to Jen Kirby at Vox for her reporting from Germany. Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain, edited by Matthew Colette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Paul Robert Mosey. The rest of our team includes Halima, Aha. Artsy had Modi, Amanda Lu, Ellen Miles, Brian Ands, Petros, who is once our intern and is now on the team for real. For real welcome backs. Tori Dominguez is our audio fellow. Jillian Weinberger is helping us out this fall. Athe Shapiro is our director of Sound. Amina Alati is our supervising producer and Noel King is the host with the most We use Music by Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld today explained is on the radio in partnership with wnyc.

0 (25m 25s):
We're part of the Vox Media podcast network. I'm Sean Ram, Happy 70 mom.