0 (1s):
Forever. chemicals are everywhere.

1 (5s):
Okay. So the big one is drinking water. You go into the bathroom, it can be in soap, shampoo, conditioner, hand lotion, dental floss, which I hate. Cause then it's in your teeth, right? Oh,

0 (19s):
They're in my teeth.

1 (23s):
Cosmetics are really bad. A lot of waterproof cosmetics, which is actually a deal breaker for a lot of women I talk to. Hmm. The other big place is the kitchen. Okay. Nonstick cookware. Takeout containers. Your food really high and a lot of fish. And then in the living room, there might be like stain proofing on the carpet. Stain proofing on the upholstery in the dust bunnies.

0 (46s):
There's forever chemicals in the dust bunnies.

1 (49s):
Yeah. And it's also in breast milk.

0 (52s):
Ugh. Coming up on today. explained the Biden Administration wants to do something about it.

BetterHelp (59s):
Support for today's show comes from better help. When you have questions about your life, your career, your relationship. When your friends are telling you, oh my God, please just see a therapist. One way to do that is to check out better help. We're finding a therapist can be convenient, flexible, suited to your schedule. These people are licensed by the way. You can let therapy be your map. With better help, listeners of today explained can visit Better help.com/explained today to get 10% off your first month. That's better help h e p.com/explained.

Oppenheimer (1m 33s):
On July 21st, the cinematic experience of the summer arrives written in, directed by Christopher Nolan Oppenheimer is an epic thriller about the man who risk destroying the world for the one chance to save it, featuring an incredible cast, including Robert Downey Jr. Emily Blunt, Oscar winners Matt Damon and Ken Kenneth Bradock. Oscar nominee Florence Pugh and Killian Murphy at j Robert Oppenheimer in theaters. July 21st rated R.

0 (2m 5s):
Today explained Shawn Ramis firm back in April. We brought you an episode on forever chemicals because they're everywhere. And just a few days ago, we got some historic news about these chemicals, the chemical and manufacturing behemoth. 3M reached a $10.3 billion settlement with a ton of American cities and towns over claims at the company, contaminated their drinking water. To celebrate the occasion, we're bringing you an episode. We made this April about forever chemicals with Barbara Moran from WBUR in Boston. We'll get to 3M eventually. But we made the episode to talk about other big news, news that the E P A had drafted new water regulations around forever chemicals.

1 (2m 52s):
And that is a huge deal because drinking water is one of the main ways that people ingest PFAS chemicals. And the EPA is finally gonna regulate it.

5 (3m 1s):
The EPAs proposal applies to six of those chemicals known as pfas compounds and would require water utilities to clean any detectable level out of their systems.

1 (3m 11s):
So this is a huge announcement that came out in March. For

0 (3m 14s):
People who don't know anything about forever chemicals or pfas, what are they?

1 (3m 18s):
Okay. PFAS chemicals are these classs of about a thousands of chemicals that were invented in the 1930s.

6 (3m 28s):
Pfas is an acronym for a family of man-made compounds called Per and Poly Fluorol alkali Substances.

1 (3m 35s):
And they turn out to have all these amazing properties like they are heat resistant and water resistant and oil resistant. So they're using thousands of products like stain resistant carpeting.

7 (3m 48s):
Even DuPont says it cannot rule out the Teflon connected products such as its Stainmaster carpet treatment, give off the chemical

1 (3m 57s):
And water resistant clothing and cosmetics. Researchers at the University of Notre Dame found more than three quarters of waterproof mascara. Nearly two thirds of foundations and liquid lipsticks they tested have high levels of pfas chemicals and Teflon pans.

8 (4m 17s):
If Teflon gets hot enough, depends on what you're cooking or how long you leave the pot on the stove. It gives off fumes that can kill

1 (4m 25s):
Birds and all of these things that people use every day. Things

6 (4m 30s):
Like pizza, bots, paper plates, rain jackets, ski wax, even guitar strings.

1 (4m 35s):
So because they're so widely used and they've been used for so long, they're now everywhere. They're in water and air and soil. Mm. Yes.

0 (4m 52s):
And are blood, I'm told

1 (4m 54s):
Yes. Of 98. It's either 98 or 99% of Americans have some pfas in their blood. Okay. So here's the thing that's interesting. When I hear that, I'm like, well, how bad can it be cuz I'm not dying. don don't think so.

0 (5m 12s):
Same. I don't think.

1 (5m 13s):
I don't think so. Why? Why is it so bad? So here's why. It turns out pfas chemicals are so bad. One, they stick around forever. They

10 (5m 20s):
Are nearly indestructible. You just can't get rid of 'em. You can't get rid of them. Like

1 (5m 24s):
Most toxins you get in your body, they eventually go out. Pfas will stay in your body for years. And they have a structure that makes them affect almost every organ system in your body. So they've been connected with all kinds of diseases like liver disease and kidney cancer and testicular cancer and immune problems and digestive problems and high cholesterol,

11 (5m 52s):
Obesity, risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, a whole suite of health outcomes that we're quite concerned about are associated with exposures to these compounds.

0 (6m 2s):
Ugh, why are they so bad? Why are they causing so many terrible things?

1 (6m 7s):
Scientists are not a hundred percent sure of the mechanism of how they do these things in the body. They kind of mimic certain other things that are good. So your body kind of lets them in and they disrupt all kinds of different functions in your body. But there's a ton of research going on with that. They just know which organs and systems that they are hurting, but they're not exactly sure how.

0 (6m 31s):
What the heck are these things doing in the tap water?

12 (6m 34s):
Scientists with the environmental working group in Washington have detected some amount of P F O S in groundwater or drinking water. In nearly 2,800 American communities across 49 states, the contamination often linked to nearby industrial sites, landfills, airports, and military bases where the chemicals may have seeped into the ground.

1 (6m 55s):
You have say waterproof clothing, you put 'em in your wash. Eventually this stuff washes off or flakes off. It gets into the wastewater that goes out into the wastewater treatment planet. Then it goes out into the world. you know, it washes off of things into storm water If. you have it in your food that can go into the drain. It's in sort of landfill leachate. It's in firefighting foam. So anywhere there's a fire, it leaks outta the firefighting foam and gets into the groundwater.

13 (7m 24s):
A Triple F aqueous film forming foam is an unsurpassed way to stop a raging petroleum fire for about 20 years. Firefighters used it in training exercises. The foam is water and oil repellent thanks to per fluorinated chemicals, more commonly known as pfas.

1 (7m 44s):
So all of this stuff, eventually it all sort of leaks down and gets into the groundwater, which ends up in the drinking water. And so this is how people first discovered it in drinking water. This remains one of the main ways that people get exposed, especially If. you live near somewhere like a firefighting academy where there's been a ton of this foam used. Right? It's in your drinking water. That's why this e p a announcement is such a big deal that they're finally gonna deal with it in drinking water. Cuz that's the first big enchilada that they have to deal with. Here I am drinking water wondering, no, my drinking water is safe because I check it because I'm obsessed.

0 (8m 24s):
Oh yeah. How do you check it?

1 (8m 27s):
Well, Massachusetts, cuz we're ahead of the game here. We've regulated pfas and drinking water for a few years now. Mm. And so you can go online, If, you live here in Massachusetts, and look up your drinking water system to see if it's okay.

0 (8m 41s):
That sounds great. I, I'm guessing not everyone has that opportunity.

1 (8m 45s):
No. There's like a handful of states, maybe 10 or 12 that already regulate it. Those states are kind of ahead of the game and the federal government is finally catching up. So now all of the states are gonna have to figure out how to measure it in their drinking water and, and regulate it.

0 (9m 1s):
Tell me more about that. How did the federal government just decide, hey, maybe we should pay attention to these forever chemicals, right. That are in breast milk and the blood of our nation and small children. Yeah. And causing this raft of horrible calamities you talked about.

1 (9m 20s):
Yeah. This is the big question is what took the e P A so long to finally regulate these things and drinking water. And there had been calls to do it for years and years and nothing happened under Trump. And then Biden came into office and said, yeah, we're moving ahead on pfas. Everybody's sort of waiting, waiting, waiting. And then finally the regulations came out in March. I mean people knew years ago that these chemicals and drinking water were a problem, right? And all the states were kind of waiting around for the EPA to do something. And then some of the states were like, the hell with this, we're not waiting for the epa. We're just gonna do our own thing.

0 (10m 0s):
What exactly did the EPA say in March?

1 (10m 3s):
So the EPA said in March that they are going to regulate six PFAS chemicals in drinking water

14 (10m 10s):
When finalized. This proposed regulation will require public water systems to monitor these chemicals. It will also require systems to notify the public and reduce the levels of these PFA s as prescribed.

1 (10m 23s):
So that means that if this regulation goes through as they're proposing, then every municipal water system in the country will have to measure these six pfas chemicals and filter the water to get them out if they're in there. So this is good. They're doing something, but it's only six of these chemicals and there's like thousands of them.

0 (10m 43s):
Thousands. Why just six?

1 (10m 45s):
The six of the p a is regulating are the ones that we know the most about. So there's enough evidence to know that these six should be regulated. Although a lot of scientists say, how about we regulate all of them and not just these six? So there's a lot of controversy over, you know, how to regulate these things. Whether you should just look at a few that we know are bad or look at all of them, assuming that they're all bad,

0 (11m 12s):
Well be it six or you know, a hundred or a thousand of them. How would the government then go about getting these forever chemicals out of the water? If they're forever chemicals,

1 (11m 26s):
You can filter them out of water. you know, you can use like a filter.

15 (11m 30s):
This brand new water treatment facility in Mansfield filters pfas, known as forever chemicals out of the drinking water by sending it through a massive carbon filtration system.

16 (11m 41s):
40,000 pounds of carbon in each one of these vessels. The pfas adheres to the carbon. So that's what removes the pfas.

1 (11m 51s):
They're really expensive of course,

0 (11m 53s):
But maybe worth it.

1 (11m 54s):
Oh, it's totally worth it. You have got to get it out of the drinking water. Okay, everybody get it outta your drinking water no matter what it costs.

0 (12m 1s):
This has been a public service announcement.

1 (12m 3s):
Yes. Yes.

0 (12m 7s):
Get the chemicals out of the drinking water. Absolutely. Absolutely. Barbara Moran WBUR.

1 (12m 12s):
You heard it here? Yes. The problem is then all the pfas is stuck in the filter.

0 (12m 17s):
Then what?

1 (12m 18s):
Then you either

0 (12m 19s):
Launch it into space. This

1 (12m 21s):
Is what everybody says to me about every single toxin. They're like, can we just shoot it in the sun? And I'm like, what? No, you can't shoot in the sun. Okay,

0 (12m 30s):
It's our problem. We should keep the problems that we've created here on our polluted planet.

1 (12m 35s):
Exactly. And then you have to, you put it in a landfill, but that doesn't get rid of the pfas, really. You select the PFA S the pfas just keeps piling up and piling up and piling up. Also, another PSA from Barb is that these, all this regulation does not help people with private wells, which are actually a lot, a huge percentage of people, especially in rural areas. You get your water from private well, you have to go out and test your well by yourself. So go do it even though it costs you money. Because you wanna know,

17 (13m 10s):
Oh,

0 (13m 17s):
What have we done to ourselves? Barbara, what is this all for? Just so we can go out for a run and not get wet. Just get wet. you

1 (13m 23s):
Know what? I'm glad that I'm bringing you into this level of despair that I have now felt for months.

0 (13m 29s):
I've been here for a long time.

1 (13m 30s):
I've been saying those exact words to myself. Like what have we done? you know, I love Teflon, I

0 (13m 36s):
Guess,

1 (13m 37s):
And I like waterproof cosmetics and I love waterproof hiking gear. But yeah, we don't need to have toxic chemicals and everything.

0 (13m 46s):
Back with Barb in a minute on today explained,

Sprig by Kohler (13m 59s):
Let's be real. When you're a hustler, it's easy to get lost in the grind and forget about yourself. But what good is success If? you can't find time to take care of yourself too. It's time to break out of the routine and turn your ordinary shower into a spa-like sanctuary with SPR Bipolar with their new shower infusion system. SPR infusions, clean aromatherapy and premium self-care ingredients into your daily showering routine. Their infusion pods feature thoughtfully paired natural botanicals like eucalyptus and mint and bergamot and lemongrass. So whether you need a clarifying and energizing shower experience to kickstart your morning or something a little more calming to unwind after a long day, you'll find it with SPR. Step into your new shower ritual with Sprig by Kohler Go to step into SPR dot com and enter in her shoes at checkout for 15% off your order. That's step into SPR dot com and enter in her shoes at checkout.

Sol De Janeiro (15m 3s):
This episode is brought to you by, so the Janeiro at. So the Janeiro touch isn't just for screens. Physical connection is so essential to how we communicate. It's infused in everything we offer since. So irresistible PDA is guaranteed. Textures are so luscious. Skin is huggable. Get into a so de Janeiro state of mind. Receive 10% off on your first order on sol de janeiro.com plus free shipping with the code. So de Janeiro 10

20 (15m 35s):
Chemistry. That's the promise

0 (15m 39s):
Today explained is back with Barbara Moran from WBUR. And I asked her an obvious question, why not just replace these dang forever chemicals with something less toxic?

1 (15m 50s):
Okay, so well this is part of the problem, right? Is the companies that make it, they're like, okay, we'll take out this bad stuff, but then they put in some other stuff. It's not really regulated. We are worried. Are they just putting in another bad thing? The ultimate solution for all this is better regulating chemicals before we put them out in the world. A b, finding a way to actually destroy the stuff when we're done with it. you know? And in the meantime, helping people limit their exposure to it. Getting outta people's drinking water, helping people have safer products so that we're not exposed so much. These things.

0 (16m 28s):
Do you know the history of how these things came to be?

1 (16m 31s):
You know, they, they were invented in the 1930s

21 (16m 35s):
And now I want to tell you a chemical story. I'm Larry Livingston of the DuPont Company. This story is about a new plastic material trademarked Teflon.

1 (16m 47s):
So they invented these chemicals and they're amazing. They have these amazing qualities.

0 (16m 53s):
This is very like the graduate, the future is plastics, plastics,

1 (16m 57s):
Plastics. It is totally,

0 (16m 59s):
It's these people. It's a

21 (17m 0s):
Great future in plastics.

1 (17m 2s):
Absolutely. And they're like, woo, this is amazing. We could use it in this and we could use it in this and this and this and this. And it became most famous used by DuPont in products like Teflon. I think that was the one of the most people were familiar with.

22 (17m 16s):
Cookware never needs scouring if it has DuPont Teflon.

1 (17m 20s):
And that's how it also came to light. That they were toxic because of the factory where they were making Teflon when they had workers exposed to it. And also it got into the water there. Hmm. And now it's everywhere.

0 (17m 34s):
When did companies really start to understand how bad these things were?

1 (17m 39s):
So the companies knew that they were bad long, long before they told anybody about it. They knew it because some of the female workers had children with birth defects.

7 (17m 49s):
These internal DuPont documents only now made public showed the company knew that of eight women working on the Teflon line in 1981. Two had children with birth defects

1 (18m 1s):
And they knew in like animal tests that these chemicals had problems. And they kept this information quiet for a long time. And it eventually came out in lawsuits.

23 (18m 12s):
When we got into the litigation with DuPont, we got access to a lot of the internal documents. And we found out that DuPont and another company called 3M had been studying this chemical dating back to the 1950s and 1960s. Sixties.

0 (18m 27s):
So how do, how do companies respond to the information that by the way, these forever chemicals that you're putting into every last product you make are really bad for people and cause of, you know, hosts of diseases and conditions that people are doing the darnedest to avoid in regular life?

1 (18m 45s):
Well I think it goes the usual way. They first they say, no, they're not, they're fine. What are you talking about? And then they say, okay, well they're not as bad as you think. And then they're like, oh okay, maybe some of them are bad, but not all of them, you know? And what they did was they phased out the first two best known ones. So they phased those out, but then they just replaced them with other ones that they said were better but weren't really, and 3M has said they're gonna phase them out completely by 2025. Oh yeah. Yeah. So that's big. And you're like, Woohoo, 3m. But like scientists I talked to, they're like, Woohoo. But are they actually just replacing them with some other thing that

0 (19m 24s):
Could have some other unknown consequences?

1 (19m 26s):
Exactly.

0 (19m 28s):
Ugh. When do people learn about the negative effects of PFA s if not right now on this show?

1 (19m 35s):
Oh God, they have to know by now. This is all I talk about. So I feel,

0 (19m 41s):
I would hope so. I would not be surprised if people hear about this for the first time.

1 (19m 45s):
I mean, let's see. So I think it sort of first came to light in around the late nineties, early two thousands, I would say a lot of people probably heard about it because there was a movie with Mark Ruffalo in it called Dark Waters.

0 (19m 59s):
Not a lot of people saw that movie. Despite the Hulk being in it.

1 (20m 3s):
It's not my fault

0 (20m 4s):
The movie was made for you and me.

1 (20m 7s):
I know there's this one scene in the movie where the guy played by Mark Ruffalo basically has a total freak out and starts getting rid of all the stuff in his house that has pfas in it. And I'm like, yeah,

24 (20m 25s):
Holy crap Rob. What? I thought someone was breaking and for God's sakes, no it's just just me, Rob, you need to tell me when the hell's going on. We're being poisoned.

1 (20m 40s):
I'm that guy. I went around and threw away all our dental floss.

0 (20m 44s):
But If, you ripped up your house to take everything out of your house that had pfas and it sounds like you'd have to kick yourself outta your house.

1 (20m 50s):
I know.

0 (20m 51s):
And your wife with the breast milk.

1 (20m 53s):
I

0 (20m 53s):
Know. And your child who ate a dust bunny and now has them in their system. It's not practical.

1 (21m 0s):
I know. So then I had to say, okay Barb, just sit down, take some deep breaths. Here's how I think about it. To keep myself from freaking out. It's kind of like air pollution, right? If, you live in the world, you're probably gonna encounter air pollution, right? Yeah. Right. Okay. Yeah. So what you wanna do is you wanna limit it. You don't wanna go stand behind and exhaust pipe and suck in exhaust, okay? Okay. Especially If, you have asthma. So go for the big ticket items, make sure your drinking water is cleaned up. Make sure you do not microwave stuff in your takeout containers.

0 (21m 34s):
That is scientifically proven to be bad. Yeah,

1 (21m 37s):
There's often pfas in takeout containers.

0 (21m 41s):
So we got the water, we got the microwave. What else?

1 (21m 44s):
Another big thing, you're not gonna like this one either, but If, you do like recreational fishing or hunting, you should check the place where you're fishing to make sure it's okay.

0 (21m 52s):
Like check the water streams, the water quality.

1 (21m 55s):
Yeah. And you can usually do that online. You should do this anyway. Because some places, a lot of places now are saying you should not fish or take fish from certain places because of the pfa. S fish is one of the highest pfa s laid in foods. So be careful with your fish.

0 (22m 11s):
So like you're trying to eat less red meat cuz cows are so bad for the environment. So you start doing a fish heavy diet and then you find out that by the way, you're doomed there too.

1 (22m 21s):
You're not doomed. Let's not go there. See, everybody's always telling me I'm the doom and gloom reporter because I'm the climate environment reporter. So let's not just do doom and gloom, let's like empower ourselves.

0 (22m 33s):
But how worried are you right now about Dwayne the Rock Johnson who eats something like 821 pounds of cod every year?

25 (22m 42s):
I can confirm it to a certain degree that I, I was eating many pounds of food per day, including a lot of cod.

0 (22m 53s):
He might be duped.

1 (22m 55s):
Don. Don't wanna doom the rock. I love the rock. Let's not doo him. I'm

26 (22m 59s):
A good guy, but sometimes I do bad

0 (23m 3s):
Things. This conversation with you, Barb, has been a wake up call for me personally, maybe for some of our audience, is it realistic to try and live a pfas free life? Is it realistic to avoid these forever chemicals? And if we can't, is there a reason to despair?

1 (23m 20s):
You cannot avoid them. You can't avoid them in the world we live in altogether. Okay, but don't despair because you can cut your exposure way, way, way down by just going for the big ticket items. And the biggest ticket item is drinking water and the federal government is finally doing something about it. So that is a huge amount of hope right there.

0 (23m 51s):
But there have been previous administrations who have like been all about like disbanding the epa. Is the federal government doing something right now, necessarily an indication that the federal government will be doing something in 10 years?

1 (24m 3s):
It's really hard to roll back regulations.

0 (24m 6s):
Is

1 (24m 7s):
It once you get 'em in place? Didn't

0 (24m 9s):
Like Obama do a bunch of regulations and then his successor on did Emall and now his successor is trying to put him back in place, isn't it? Kind of how it goes. Cyclical

1 (24m 16s):
Almost, but not quite. Trump made a really strong effort to roll back a lot of regulations and had a little bit of success, not a ton of success. Americans want safe drinking water. And so I, I think this one is gonna stick.

0 (24m 35s):
You know what that is, Barb?

1 (24m 37s):
No,

0 (24m 38s):
That's a glimmer of hope.

1 (24m 42s):
Thank you. I do like to give those glimmers

0 (24m 50s):
Barbara Moran is the doom and gloom reporter at WBUR in Boston. But she likes a glimmer. So does Avi Shy Artsy. He produced this episode. We were edited by Amina Al, fact, checked by Halima s Shah and Laura Bullard. And mixed by Paul Robert Mounsey. The rest of the team at today explained is comprised of Heidi mdi, Amanda Lu, Ellen Miles, Brian CI Petros, and Victoria Chamberlain. Lots of help from Jolie Myers and Patrick Boyd Music from Breakmaster Cylinder. Email us anytime at today. explained at Vox dot com. We're on the radio with help from WNYC and we are part of the Vox Media podcast network.