1 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from a show called million bazillion from the people over at Marketplace in partnership with brains on which I recently discovered is a outfit that makes podcast for kids. So perfect million bazillion is a new podcast for kids and also their families. It's all about money how it works how we use it where it comes from and how we could all get a little bit smarter about it in a fun way million bazillion helping dollars make more sense listen and Scribe wherever you listen And subscribe.

2 (35s):
There's a new bench worthy TV show out that asks, what stands between us and Utopia. I'm talking about Brave New World, which is streaming right now, exclusively on

1 (44s):
peacock the shows a futuristic visual

2 (47s):
Feast based on the 1932 Aldous Huxley novel about surveillance control and what were willing to sacrifice for happiness. The show takes place in 25:40 in the Utopia of New London where privacy family and monogamy are forbidden. The powers that be consider their society perfect, but at what cost all episodes of Brave New World are available now on peacocks and new streaming service from NBC Universal sign up at peacock tv.com to stream now

1 (1m 15s):
for me explain. Hey there today explained I'm Sean Rama's for a minutes August. Welcome to August. Y'all were marking the passage of time here in the District of Columbia with a tropical storm. How about you how do you mark the passage of time another way to do it is to calculate how close the election is and it's getting much closer as of today. It's just 90 days away. But with all the mail-in voting that needs to happen. This thing's actually going to kick off much sooner than that a presidential election during a worsening pandemic is of course, no small undertaking So today we're going to break down what it will take to get the United States ready.

1 (1m 59s):
But before we can even get The gate the president is of course making this harder mail-in voting ballots, you're asking for fraud people steal them out of mailboxes people print them and then they sign them and they give him in that the people don't even know whether double counted and they're in all the mailboxes and kids go and they raid the mailboxes and they hand them to people that are signing the Valles down the end of the screen which is happening. They grabbed the balance. You don't think that happens but voting is a great honor. It's a a great honor and people love to go out and vote and I want to keep it that way on top of constantly casting doubt on mail-in voting President Trump is also floating the idea of delaying the election all together.

1 (2m 44s):
Ella Nelson, you cover politics of vocs. Can he even do that?

2 (2m 48s):
So no President Trump does not have the authority to cancel or delay. The election Congress actually has more Authority in this matter as well as individual states when it comes to determining when the election can Held he can influence Federal funding for states to try to shore up their elections and get them ready before November. He has purview over the US Postal Service, which will be responsible for delivering millions of absentee ballots ahead of the general election. So, you know Trump has plenty of influence here, but he cannot delay or or cancel the election outright

1 (3m 27s):
and how did his party and the other one react when he tried to do this? Last week or floated the idea

2 (3m 32s):
actually Republicans in a rare moment spoke out against the president

1 (3m 37s):
never in the history of the country through Wars depressions and the Civil War have we ever not had a federally scheduled election on time and we'll find a way to do that. Again this November 3rd. All right to the elections probably going to be held on November 3rd. How's it looking is the country ready to do

2 (3m 58s):
this? So the summer I have painted a fairly worrisome picture Boulder stood in line for hours for the June 23rd primary and an overwhelming number mailed an absentee ballots, but it wasn't until Monday that the Board of Elections counted the last boat as in five weeks after the election many states are not prepared for a general election. And that's because Faith essentially have to hold two elections on November 3rd. They have to do both, you know. A safe in person election that gives voters who want to the option to go cast their ballot in person and you know, hopefully not get coronavirus when they do it.

2 (4m 40s):
And then also they're giving more people the option to cast their ballot through the mail through absentee voting where where people just fill out their ballot and send it back in the mail.

1 (4m 51s):
Okay. So the country's got to have basically two massive elections on November 3rd or an advance of that date the one in person. One and the one that's all done by mail. Let's start with the in-person voting how our state's preparing that and are all 50 states and 50 different places on preparations.

2 (5m 14s):
The biggest thing with impersonal elections is poll workers. And the thing is is that typically poll workers tend to be older. They tend to be people who are retired who like to volunteer their time and these are also the same people that are the most vulnerable to coronavirus so many of these poll workers who used to show up at the polls and you know, stay there all day on November 3rd are afraid to do that because they're afraid that it will make them more likely to get coronavirus and that basically means when you have fewer poll workers, you have fewer available polling places.

2 (5m 53s):
We saw that right off the bat with Wisconsin, which was one of the first states to hold their Primary in person. Akron virus really

1 (6m 1s):
got serious hundreds of Voters wrapped around the football field all the way up to the school entrance maybe about two hours because I had to make a circle around two times and then come back the unprecedented lines are a product of a poll worker shortage. Only five voting centers are open today in Milwaukee way down from the usual 180

2 (6m 18s):
site. So in order to try to attract, you know, younger poll workers are basically anybody who is healthy and able bodied and willing to go staff a polling place. Place a lot of states are trying to figure out how to pay people for their time, you know, because the economy is not really good right now. If you're trying to attract young people you kind of have to make it worth their while

1 (6m 42s):
anybody who's able to we're asking you to step up in this time of need during prune a virus democracy the foundation of our whole form of government is voting at a precinct on Election Day and that's why we need the full

2 (6m 55s):
workers. One of the big takeaways from some states is basically to Elections in much larger polling places so we saw this in States like Kentucky, which basically had thousands of Voters go through, you know, like sports Arenas rather than you know a school gym and essentially, you know, they can space a lot more people out but still kind of get people through and not have these massive lines around the

1 (7m 22s):
block. Of course, the other way to avoid the massive lines is to vote early and to vote by mail and the president's been tweeting about all these worries about fraudulent voting if people do vote by mail, but we've already debunked that on the show. How is the country preparing for vote by mail? And what are the biggest issues facing the country

2 (7m 44s):
states have to kind of ramp up their own capacity for vote-by-mail and this is like things that are as simple as like Contracting out to third party contractors who literally are the ones who print the ballots and you know, print the Options for how to vote by mail they have to get those bids out early they have to in some cases by equipment to count the ballots because you know, it one expert told me, you know, it could take something like 500 people all day to open a million ballots. So, you know some cases some states just need to get machines to do that more efficiently.

1 (8m 24s):
And of course before they even get counted they got to make it through the USPS, which As we've covered on the show is having some issues.

2 (8m 33s):
There's a lot going on with the the postal service right now. But the biggest thing is that they have a new Postmaster General a guy named Luis De jouy, who was a former Trump donor and the new postmaster is trying to do something that Republicans have long dreamed of which is essentially cutting costs at the US Postal Service and the way that did you Is trying to do that is to change delivery times and processing times at the

1 (9m 7s):
USPS. Once he changed

2 (9m 9s):
before the joy came in and made these changes. Basically, the day's mail would all get processed in one day even if that meant postal workers working overtime and processing, you know, even beyond the end of their shifts. It was the goal of the USPS to get all of that mail processed and out. Out and delivered, you know in in the day and not have this backlog. When did Joy came in he basically said when your shift ends you go home and you don't stay over time. You don't process the day's mail until it is completely done. You just leave it and you come back in the morning and then you pick up where you left off essentially

1 (9m 52s):
and what's been the upshot of that change.

2 (9m 56s):
The upshot is is just a backlog and it's a backlog that is is getting worse and it's also really worrisome as far as ballots are concerned because essentially, you know, each state tells you you need to get your ballot postmarked in by this date, but now elections experts are saying get your ballot in at least a week before your state tells you to and and even give it more time. If you're able to get it in, you know, two weeks or three weeks before give State officials enough time to to get all these ballots and be able to process them because if you if you do everything right and you get your ballot in, you know by the deadline or get it postmarked by the deadline the processing delays at the USPS are now bad enough that it could still just get stuck in the system.

2 (10m 47s):
And not get to your state or local elections officials by the time they need to get it and if it doesn't get there on time, it could be discounted and your vote will just not get counted.

1 (10m 59s):
Okay, so apart from having a president who's floating the idea of delaying the election all together. We've got a global pandemic affecting people's willingness to volunteer at polling stations to show up to polling stations. We've got a whole country grappling with a Adapting to vote by mail absentee ballots and then at the USPS which will process those ballots. We've got intentional slowdowns from a trump donor who's been put in charge of everything.

2 (11m 32s):
Yes, and the other worrisome thing behind all of this is just the lack of money from Congress at this point. So Congress right now is deliberating on another coronavirus package, but states and cities and towns desperately need additional federal aid and state elections officials desperately need additional federal aid. They got some in the cares package back in March, but many of those states have essentially used up that funding on their primaries which many held over the summer and they're staring down a potentially much bigger election with greater turnout in November and they are running out of time and they're running out of money.

1 (12m 23s):
More with Ella after a quick break on fake splint. Support for the show today comes from noon not zoom. But Noom, I don't know if they're related. It's the Habit change program that uses psychology to teach you the mechanics of your brain. So you can make the changes you want to make in your lives. How does Noom do it you pick the goals that are right for you from being more in tune with your body's needs. Let's say or to feeling more confident and then let Noom create a I'm to help you turn those goals into a reality.

1 (13m 5s):
They are like understanding people over at noon. They get that humans make mistakes and they don't shame you if you miss a step or backtrack or something. It's just a friendly reminder like 10 minutes a day that helps you see results you matched up with a goal specialist who uses a cognitive behavioral approach and personalized courses to help you reach your specific goals sign up for a trial today. Today at noon n-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o. M.com. Explain. That's Noom.com explain to start your free trial today, n-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o m.com explained.

1 (13m 50s):
I remember I used to have a history teacher back at UCLA who said to us that there are times when you could feel the fist of History tightening around you also thought about that. She was talking not long after 9/11. But this is another one of those moments. It is a hinge moment in the American Democratic experiment. The entire Globe is being battered by the coronavirus. We're dealing with some of our oldest moons in this country on top of entirely new technologies like it is a crazy time. Mr. Klein host of years of Hangzhou podcast and what we're trying to do right now is understand our time and try to find some of the ideas that might help us chart a way out of it the past few months. We've talked to Tom a Seacoast about why the protest made him actually hopeful tomorrow adem?s de kado about the ways in which economic profession has misunderstood the concept and this measure the concept of value to Elizabeth Warren about her plan to combat the coronavirus Russ Douthat about whether or not American societies become decadent.

1 (14m 46s):
These have all been great conversations and there are So many more I hope you'll join me every Monday and Thursday to stay informed and maybe we get a sense of hope as well subscribe to this recline show on Apple podcast Spotify or whatever you're listening to this right now. Twelve to twenty twelve to twelve to l what does actually going to look like on November 3rd will so much of the country have already voted will we have results that night is this going to take weeks? Hopefully the Supreme Court doesn't have to step in.

2 (15m 21s):
I mean I have absolutely no idea what to expect on November 3rd, but I think that we should all especially we in the media prepare ourselves for the scenario that we very well may not know who won. Out of and we might not know in the coming day is it could take a week? It could take two weeks to make sure that we get all of the absentee votes counted and verified before they can actually declare a winner.

1 (15m 47s):
Yeah. So many years. I've been watching elections and they say the projected winner or the winner of the election. I don't want to see that take place in a week after November 3rd or a month or frankly with litigation and everything else that can happen. In years years or you never even know who won the election and considering his track record. We can expect that the president might not help the process of encouraging the nation to be patient with the results. What's what's the worst case scenario here? So the worst

2 (16m 20s):
case scenario is an election that is too close to

1 (16m 24s):
call

2 (16m 25s):
basically, you know, if either Trump or Biden wins in a blowout and you know, it is decisive and we know who the Her is that takes a lot of the uncertainty out. But if we have a situation where it's like the 2000 election Bush V Gore where we really don't know there's a lot of uncertainty about who just won the election because some states are too close to call, you know, important States like Florida or Pennsylvania, then that gives both sides and opening to try to you know, say that they won and that is what election experts say is. Is really the

1 (17m 4s):
disaster scenario because what happens the fight for the presidency becomes. Much bigger than a fight between two guys. It's like the whole country is going to be at each other's necks

2 (17m 14s):
or what in it also gives people an opening to argue that the electoral process itself wasn't legitimate and the outcome is not legitimate and if people especially in our hyperpolarized country fundamentally cannot accept that an election outcome is legitimate and that that leads to perhaps not a peaceful transfer of power or things that are sort of Of the Hallmark of American democracy that is where you really have a crisis of democracy on your hands essentially.

1 (17m 48s):
And in that case it might want a once again lead to the Supreme Court having to step in

2 (17m 54s):
that is a possible scenario, but election experts are also just concerned that you know, whoever the loser is fundamentally does not accept that they lost and their supporters never accept that they lost and that just has Like concerning implications for you know belief and in the

1 (18m 13s):
Democratic process as well. Okay, so to avoid that we have to hope for a blowout. Yes. We haven't talked about hacking. Is that going to be a major concern here to I mean, we're coming off the 2016 election how much have we secured ourselves from say Russian interference?

2 (18m 31s):
I mean that is definitely still a concern. I feel like now it is a concern that has kind of Fallen a bit to the Wayside because all of these other other concerns are so much more immediate and and just sort of like right in our faces but one expert that I talked to Nate personally from Stanford recently wrote. It is a sign of our Through the Looking-Glass times that I can now be nostalgic for the moment. When all we needed to fear was foreign takeover of the u.s. Electoral system or widespread voter targeted disinformation. That's like kind of a shocking statement. Those fears are definitely still there. I mean Congress has not passed any significant funding to you know, really secure.

1 (19m 9s):
A

2 (19m 9s):
selection system from from hacking or targeting by Foreign operatives. But right now the most pressing concerns are literally just can States hold this election safely. And can we just get this done? And what's the answer? I mean

1 (19m 25s):
we're sitting here in early August talking about all of these issues that we can see coming our state's taking this seriously is Congress taking this

2 (19m 33s):
seriously states are definitely taking it seriously, and they're trying to To gear up as much as they possibly can but I think if you talk to state election officials, they say that they really do need more help from Congress and the other big piece of this I think is just public education people are starting to hear about the problems with the post office and delivery times, but it's really really important that people know that they can't just put their ballot in the mail on November. Third. They need to put it in at the end of October potentially even

1 (20m 10s):
What do you think Ella will we get it together by November 3rd?

2 (20m 13s):
I have no idea. But I do think that people are kind of becoming aware of problems with delays and sort of starting to change how they are planning to vote accordingly. You know, we're in August right now and we still have my God just like three months.

1 (20m 40s):
We still

2 (20m 41s):
have around three months to prepare. So people do have time. It's not like we're recording this so week before the election. I think that you know education is a really important piece and the sooner that people get educated about what they need to do as Citizens in order to get their vote in on time the better.

1 (21m 3s):
Well, ah, we'll have you back on soon to talk about the latest. Thank you. Okay. Thank you very

2 (21m 8s):
much.