0 (1s):
This year a really interesting new idea appeared in mainstream economics. The idea is that the Inflation we've been struggling with is due to corporations realizing they can charge us more and we will pay a new cause of Inflation. Now, at this point, we've had a good understanding of what causes Inflation. Too much money chasing too few goods is the Econ 1 0 1 explanation. And of course, when supply chains break down as they did during the pandemic, that'll contribute too. But you may have felt recently that things are more expensive than they should be, that the crisis created by the panty is coming to a close, but prices are still very high. Two, econ recently dug into the question of whether old-fashioned Inflation is the reason for all of the higher prices or whether something else is going on.

2 (46s):
There seems to be a reluctance on the part of businesses to start to bring prices down.

BetterHelp (53s):
Coming up on today explained the hidden drivers of Inflation support for today's show comes from better help. When you have questions about your life, your career, your relationship. When your friends are telling you, oh my God, please just see a therapist. One way to do that is to check out better help. We're finding a therapist can be convenient, flexible, suited to your schedule. These people are licensed by the way you can let therapy be your map. With better help, listeners of today explained can visit better help.com/explained today to get 10% off your first month. That's better help h e p.com/explained

3 (1m 33s):
On July 21st, the cinematic experience of the Summer arrives written in, directed by Christopher Nolan Oppenheimer is an epic thriller about the man who risk destroying the world for the one chance to save it, featuring an incredible cast, including Robert Downey Jr. Emily Blunts, Oscar winners Matt Damon and Kenneth Bradock, Oscar nominee Florence Pugh and Killian Murphy at j Robert Oppenheimer in theaters July 21st rated R.

2 (2m 10s):
My name is Tracy Alloy. I am the co-host of the Odd Lots podcast over at Bloomberg where myself and my co-host Joe Weisenthal, talk about the most interesting stories in finance markets and the economy. You

0 (2m 22s):
Recently identified a phenomenon or wrote about a phenomenon that you call Excuseflation. It does not roll off the tongue, but, but it's an interesting idea. Tell me what it means.

2 (2m 34s):
I think a lot of people at this point have heard about this idea that companies, you know, maybe they're taking advantage of the current environment in order to raise prices and really gouging their customers. And the thing about X Excuseflation is it's sort of grounded in truth. It's the idea that companies are using these once in a lifetime disruptions. you know, think about the supply chain hiccups that we've had. The

4 (3m 0s):
Port of Los Angeles is once again seeing bottlenecks.

2 (3m 3s):
Think about the Ukraine, Russia war.

5 (3m 5s):
Well, the conflict in Ukraine and the sanctions on Russia have led to another surge in the cost of oil and gas,

2 (3m 11s):
And they're using those one-off disruptions as an excuse to raise prices. And that sounds fair enough. you know, companies, they have expenses. If their input costs go up, maybe it makes sense for them to pass some of those on to customers. But where it starts to become insidious is when they're raising prices so much that they're seeing their profits go up quite substantially as well.

1 (3m 39s):
Can

0 (3m 39s):
You give me an example of something that has been conflated?

2 (3m 42s):
Sure. So one of my favorite examples, because you know, I, I, I love these personally, but chicken wings, let's talk about chicken wings and Wingstop.

6 (3m 52s):
You wanna order wing stock?

7 (3m 54s):
We just got all these groceries.

6 (3m 56s):
Yeah, but we didn't get Wingstop. you

8 (3m 58s):
Know, you want that sauced and tossed Wingstop where flavor gets its wings.

2 (4m 2s):
Wingstop is a very large purveyor of very delicious chicken wings. And what they've been saying on their earnings calls is that they have been raising their prices for their delicious chicken wings. And the reason they've been doing that is because the wholesale cost of your basic chicken wing went up quite a lot during the pandemic. Whether

9 (4m 22s):
You're serving them up from the deep fryer or selling them raw chicken wings are hard to come by right now.

10 (4m 29s):
I've been raising my wing prices every week for the last five weeks.

2 (4m 34s):
We had a lot of disruptions at various farms, chicken farms with labor shortages and things like that. So it made sense that chicken wing prices went up and the company started passing those on to consumers. The issue now though, is that we have seen a substantial drop in chicken wing prices. Good

7 (4m 55s):
News for you, just in time for football season. Chicken wing prices have now dropped to below their pre pandemic levels. The wholesale price is now at a four year low,

2 (5m 7s):
And yet the company isn't saying that it's gonna start dropping its prices. What it's discovered, much like a lot of other businesses at the moment, is that actually this strategy of making up what you lose in sales volume with higher prices. So you're selling fewer products, but you're selling them at higher prices. It's a viable strategy in the current environment, and it's working for a lot of companies because profit margins are up.

11 (5m 34s):
Wingstop is coming off a better than expected quarter for sales. As diners embrace the company's new chicken sandwich. It also helps from a profit perspective that chicken wing prices have started to, or they have flown lower

0 (5m 44s):
I mean listen, you are an economics reporter. You see what's happening, you are still buying chicken wings. Why are you not furious? Why have you not put your foot down?

2 (5m 54s):
First of all, let me say that my personal price elasticity when it comes to chicken wings is probably infinite. I, you know, I, I will pay whatever it takes, tea, buffalo wings. Wingstop

0 (6m 4s):
Is listening.

2 (6m 6s):
We spoke to the owner of a bakery over in Chicago and you know, I think there's a tendency when you think about things like greed, deflation or Excuseflation, you think about these big corporations, these really sophisticated corporations that are, you know, formulating their pricing strategies and how to get the most out of customers. But this is a phenomenon that also is endemic in smaller and mid-size businesses. And this baker in Chicago kind of laid it out for us. He said,

12 (6m 36s):
Whether it's rye flour or bird flu that impacts eggs when it makes national news just running a business, it's an opportunity to increase the prices without getting a whole bunch of complaining from the customers. Hmm huh. It's not that we're out there price gouging, but you know, timing can be everything.

0 (6m 54s):
Shouldn't competition push prices down? I mean if I'm a business owner, I'm gonna let consumers know that I can get them stuff cheaper than the other guys who have excuse legislated everything. Shouldn't that be happening?

2 (7m 5s):
So I think this is really the key thing about Excuseflation and where it differs a little bit from greed, ifl, if a company starts raising its prices just because it can, then in theory, according to the basic rules of capitalism and economics, someone should come in and undercut them and steal all their business away. But the thing about Excuseflation is it allows companies to raise prices all at the same time and all together. So the economist, Isabella Weber, she basically says, what it does is it gives companies defacto monopoly power.

13 (7m 46s):
If we are in a situation where we have very highly concentrated corporate structures, which I think is a fairly fair description of large parts of the American economy, then we can actually see that the price response to demand is surprisingly small in many cases, that the prices are actually quite surprisingly stable.

2 (8m 6s):
So you think about the reason that we tend not to like monopolies as consumers, we want, you know, a vibrant landscape of lots of smaller businesses that are all competing with each other so that we get a better value for our money. What happens when you have an industry-wide event that gives a group of businesses an excuse to raise prices, is that they are all effectively, not officially, but effectively acting as a monopoly. They can all say, well, you know it, it's bird flu, so we're all gonna raise the prices of our eggs. Or when it comes to specific company examples, you know, Pepsi has been pushing their prices higher for a while, and you would think that, well, customers can just buy Coke instead, but actually Coke is pretty much doing the same thing.

2 (8m 58s):
And so you end up having these industries who are all acting together, and that means that there's very little incentive for them to start lowering prices because they're not seeing that competitive pressure. We tend to think of monopoly power as this, you know, kind of static thing. So you know, you might have one big company that dominates an industry and that's a classic monopoly. Consumers don't have a lot of other options, but In fact, monopoly power can be a fluid and temporary thing. So when you see a supply bottleneck or when you see an industry-wide disruption, it can lead to the situation where companies all start acting very similarly.

2 (9m 46s):
They all start doing the same thing. It's almost, you know, I hesitate to use these words because they have legal connotations, but it's almost like a defacto cartel, right? Everyone decides to raise their prices all at once because whatever crucial component or input cost is going up. And so that leads to a automatic monopoly. It feels the same to a consumer who finds that actually they don't have a lot of options because one group of businesses is raising their prices altogether all at the same time. The

0 (10m 19s):
Federal Reserve has been raising interest rates to try and slow Inflation down. It's paused for the moment, but I wonder, does the Fed take corporate profits into account if this is a new set of circumstances causing Inflation, does the Fed need a new response?

2 (10m 34s):
I think it would be really, really hard for the Fed with its current mandate to take something like corporate profits into account. Huh. We have seen policymakers, you know, make some noises about this. I think Lale Brenard, for instance, before she left to go to the National Economic Council, was talking about how it seems like there is this sort of inelastic component of consumer demand that maybe companies are taking advantage of. But what I would point to is there are other types of policymakers who are starting to cast a much more critical eye on this type of activity. you know, for instance, it we're talking about supply side disruptions.

2 (11m 14s):
There is a lot of legislation that has come out of the Biden administration that is targeted at precisely these types of choke points.

14 (11m 24s):
After weeks of negotiation and working with my team and with the major union retailers and freight movers, the ports of Los Angeles, the Port of Los Angeles announced today that it's gonna be began operating 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

2 (11m 41s):
The second thing we know is that throughout the pandemic and the, you know, ensuing years, the rich have gotten richer and the poor have gotten poorer. They've blown through their savings, while wealthier people have tended to see their savings just go up. So you almost have, you know, well you do have two different classes of people here. You have one class of people that is probably feeling the pressure of higher Inflation. They're not gonna be buying as many chicken wings, but you have other people who you know, they will stomach and possibly not even notice a 10 or 20% increase in the price of their chicken wings. And so I think those are the things that are really driving this dynamic.

1 (12m 27s):
Bloomberg's

0 (12m 27s):
Tracy Allay co-host of Odd Lots, the podcast coming up next, how companies justify these price increases. You wanna know what premiumization means, like Wingstop will deliver.

15 (12m 52s):
Let's be real. When you're a hustler, it's easy to get lost in the grind and forget about yourself. But what good is success If? you can't find time to take care of yourself too. It's time to break out of the routine and turn your ordinary shower into a spa-like sanctuary with Sprig Bipolar Kohler with their new shower infusion system. Sprague infuses clean aromatherapy and premium self-care ingredients into your daily showering routine. Their infusion pods feature thoughtfully paired natural botanicals like eucalyptus and mint and bergamot and lemongrass. So whether you need a clarifying and energizing shower experience to kickstart your morning or something a little more calming to unwind after a long day, you'll find it with Sprig.

15 (13m 36s):
Step into your new shower ritual with Sprig by Kohler Go to step into Sprig dot com and enter in her shoes at checkout for 15% off your order. That's step into Sprig dot com and enter in her shoes at checkouts

FedEx (13m 57s):
At FedEx office. We know running a business is a marathon, but sometimes every task feels like a sprint. Design the product catalog, pick up the new boxes, print the business cards, not notarize the lease. Put out 20 more yard signs. It's a lot luckily for you. FedEx office is here to help turn your ideas into reality so you can stop running yourself in circles and start concentrating on the important things like deciding what's for lunch. Visit your nearest location or office.fedex.com to get started. FedEx office.

0 (14m 31s):
Okay, moments ago, ex Excuseflation. Now Jason Carion, the business news director at the New York Times recently identified another reason, gentrification, not of a neighborhood, but of the whole economy. Jason, what

17 (14m 46s):
My co-author and I, we thought of gentrification as like an understandable metaphor for what companies are doing now in that they're prodding consumers towards fancier, often pricier versions of their products. And so as those products grow more exclusive and expensive, we thought of gentrification as as that metaphor, as if it was the entire economy being gentrified. And what that implies is that it's caters to higher income consumers and leaves poorer people, underserved. Now, what corporate executives will call that is premiumization, which is a mouthful.

18 (15m 29s):
There's probably two big drivers I think, that have driven this premiumization over the last two decades and why I'm very bullish that pre premiumization will continue.

17 (15m 39s):
And that's been coming up more and more when when we talk to CEOs and CFOs and those types. And also If, you listen in on earnings calls, these calls that companies have with investors and analysts every quarter. It's, it's fair to say that premiumization is a pretty popular buzzword right now.

0 (15m 58s):
If, you were to ask an executive, give me a one sentence definition for premiumization. What would they say? Well,

17 (16m 4s):
They would say that it's increasing the value of a product to a consumer beyond what it costs. So you know, it's like adding new features, having some sort of branding that makes it more desirable in some ways. And that's several sentences, but really it's, they talk about value beyond just price.

0 (16m 29s):
Price. Got it. Okay. So earlier in the show we were talking to Tracy Allway about Excuseflation, and this is where companies will jack up the price for reasons that don't have to do with input costs. But in this case, companies are jacking up the prices and saying higher quality is what justifies the increase. Can you give me like a really specific example of where you have seen this happening?

17 (16m 52s):
How much time do we have here? Because it's happening everywhere. And I think once you start to think about premiumization, Excuseflation or just look at, you know, the price of things now versus three or four years ago, you start to see it everywhere. And you know, one re recent example that's pretty interesting I think is at a M C, the movie theater chain. Somehow

19 (17m 13s):
Heartbreak feels good in a place like

17 (17m 15s):
This. They started raising prices for, you know, middle seats.

20 (17m 19s):
The plan is to offer three tiers of seating. Preferred tier seats in the middle of the theater will be the most expensive, followed by standard, the most common choice, which the company says will remain the price of a traditional ticket. If you're in the mood for a bargain, and don't mind a slight neck cramp, try value located in the front rows.

17 (17m 36s):
The thing that really convinced us that it was time to write this story about this phenomenon was when we saw executives at WD 40 mention premiumization

0 (17m 46s):
And what did they say?

17 (17m 47s):
You know, WD 40, the lubricant that you use to, to fix squeaky wheels, hinges, doors, all that sort of thing. Wd

21 (17m 55s):
Wd WD 40, wd wd WD 40,

22 (17m 58s):
WD 40, pick up a can at your favorite store, try it. WD 40.

17 (18m 3s):
They have been talking about premiumization as part of their strategy and, and what's driving profits there. And that's not something, you know, you generally consider as like a luxury good, but they have, you know, cans of lubricant now with what they call a smart straw.

23 (18m 19s):
Flip it up for a precision stream. This will get to those hard to reach places, flip that straw back down for regular spray action.

17 (18m 27s):
And they also have something called easy reach, which means that you can shoot WD 40 around corners.

23 (18m 33s):
And the best part, the straw is right where I left it.

17 (18m 36s):
And what that means is that they can charge more for each bottle of lubricant. They say that it's because you know, hey, these shoot two different ways and so that's worth, you know, an extra quarter or 50 cents or something on a bottle. And so once you apply that to other products, you you, you start to see it just about everywhere.

0 (18m 56s):
I think you also wrote, and this is very near and dear to my heart about pet food.

17 (19m 0s):
I think pet food is a fascinating example of this because pet food has been premiumizing to coin a term there for many, many years. So that trend has been kind of turbocharged by the pandemic. So what's happening with pet food is that executives in that industry have been talking about the humanization of pet ownership for a while. you know, we treat our dogs, cats and other pets as akin to human members of our families and we spend more and more on fancier things for them. And that mainly involves food. And so that humanization trend has run into the kind of pandemic boom and pet ownership has run into the splurge and spending that we saw during the pandemic when people got stimulus checks when they were at home and other expenses went down and they decided to spend more on their households and that includes pets.

17 (19m 54s):
There was a really funny example recently, the CEO of Smucker, which owns Milkbone, he said that

24 (20m 1s):
We've had some nice success on some of the premiumization in milkbone. Things like taking the biscuits and, and dipping them and stacking them. There's actually a basically what looks like an Oreo for dogs.

17 (20m 17s):
You know, pets don't necessarily eat more than they used to, but we're spending way, way more on, on pet food than, than we used to. And that is a part of this long running premiumization trend that has only gotten deeper over the past three years.

0 (20m 35s):
I got a pandemic puppy, I love him so much. I started out feeding him kibble and then he was kinda like turning his nose up at it. So I started buying him the expensive crap fresh pet. And then in the last month he started turning his nose up at Fresh Pet and now I have to give him freaking human food. He has premiumized me up to Trader Joe's. I'm so pissed.

17 (20m 54s):
Doggies Trader Joe's. I love it. I love

0 (20m 56s):
It. I think there's ways in which this could seem niche, right? It's like Noelle and a couple thousand other idiots will pay for expensive dog food. But you know, it's not all through the economy is premiumization playing into these big broad Inflation numbers that we have out this morning?

17 (21m 15s):
It could be, it's kind of hard to identify in the big macro stats, but If, you talk to any economists, market watchers, analysts, those types, you're starting to hear them talk more and more about profit led Inflation. So Inflation has been on a bumpy but but steadily downward slope in recent months. And it's been maybe a little stickier than people thought. Given that energy prices have come way down and, and some of those big spikes we saw earlier in the pandemic have moderated and what's left is profits is companies profit margins. And, and, and so some of the Inflation that that we see now, and you know, some people have tried to put a number on it, but a not insignificant amount of it is down to companies just keeping prices high.

17 (21m 60s):
Quite simply

0 (22m 1s):
In this kind of dynamic, in this kind of environment, what happens, what does this mean for lower income people who can't afford gentrified WD 40?

17 (22m 11s):
What it does mean is that there's a real risk that lower income households are underserved in this new type of economy. And that just puts into, you know, even sharper relief, the inequality that we've seen for quite some time in most western economies. And the car market is a really good example of this. We ran some numbers on it, we talked to some people at the end of 2017, there were almost 30 different new car models that you could buy below $25,000. The share of cars that cost that much or less so, so kind of like lower end new cars were more than 10% of all sales of cars.

17 (22m 52s):
Now there are only about 10 models that cost $25,000 or less. And the share of sales of those cars is like 4%. It's tiny car sales have been pretty robust lately. Put some pretty perky numbers out there, but there are a big swath of people out there who are being completely priced out of the new car market and that then filters down to the used car market. And so prices will go up there also. And then just generally you start to picture this economy that is potentially a little bit more unequal than it has been and it's already pretty unequal. And you get a vision of an economy that's has lower production, potentially higher Inflation, and then over the longer term just to permanently higher prices for essentials and luxuries and just about everything.

0 (23m 41s):
What are the longer term consequences of this two track economy? Do you, you think?

17 (23m 46s):
Well it just puts in pretty sharp relief, the inequality of it. And you know, when you get inequality what that could mean, you know, macroeconomically speaking is, is less stability for the economic system but also for just society as a whole. And that feeds into politics and, and sort of other things. And so it's not necessarily a bright picture for the economy, but, but like so much else in this post pandemic economy, it's confusing. And that's what we've heard from lots of different economists too. They're seeing this, can this continue? Are there stability concerns with this? What does it mean for inequality? What does it mean for our politics in the, in the, in the future?

17 (24m 26s):
And a lot of them honestly just kind of throw their hands up because like so much else since we learned of, you know, covid 19, this is having effects that are difficult to predict and it's kind of uncertain where we're going.

0 (24m 53s):
Today's show was produced by Miles Bryan who will pay a premium for Miles. Tell me I

25 (24m 58s):
Will pay a premium for airline tickets that avoid layovers. I hate

0 (25m 1s):
Layovers. It was edited by Matthew Collette who will pay a premium for socks. So Haynes just know he's out there. It was engineered by city kid Paul Robert Bouncy, who will pay top dollar for great produce. And it was fact checked by Laura Bullard who believe it or not, but you should believe it because she's the fact checker will pay a premium for that special WD 40 that can shoot around corners. I'm Noel King, it's today explained.