1 (1s):
Formula one returns to Las Vegas this weekend for the first time since 1982 and apparently F one has dropped somewhere in the neighborhood of half a billion dollars to convert the strip into a race course. And what does half a billion dollars get you last night? Just nine minutes into a practice run Carlos signs hit a loose manhole cover on the Las Vegas strip damaged his Ferrari and the entire event. Ground to a halt. Ferrari's team principal Frederick Vaser was inconsolable. I think

0 (33s):
He's just unacceptable for the one

1 (35s):
Today, but the company man interviewing Vassor tried to console him anyway. Ferrari Fred, it's Vegas baby. Fred Vegas Fred

0 (42s):
Live now

1 (42s):
Fred, can we

0 (43s):
Just reflect on here

1 (45s):
It's not just Ferrari. Fred Max Opin the reigning champion told Reuters this Vegas event is 99% show and 1% sporting event. Ouch.

0 (55s):
Formula

1 (56s):
One's America problem. Coming up On today. Explain

Apple (1m 6s):
Apple Card is the credit card created by Apple. You earn 3% daily cash back upfront when you use it to buy a new iPhone. 15 AirPods or any products on Apple. And you can automatically grow your daily cash at 4.15% annual percentage yield when you open a high yield savings account. Apply for Apple Card in the wallet app on iPhone. Apple card subject to credit approval. Savings is available to Apple card owners. Subject to eligibility. Savings accounts by Goldman Sachs Bank, USA member FDIC. Terms supply.

Mint Mobile (1m 42s):
Ryan Reynolds here from Mint Mobile. Not only have I been the owner of Mint Mobile for the last few years, I've also been a customer. I don't know If you knew this, but anyone can get the same premium wireless for $15 a month plan that I've been enjoying. It's not just for celebrities. So do like I did and have one of your assistant's, assistants switch you to Mint Mobile today. I'm told it's super easy to do at mint mobile.com/switch. New activation and upfront payment for three month plan required taxes and fees, extra additional restrictions. Apply min mobile.com for full terms.

0 (2m 18s):
Nice lights out Act today explained.

5 (2m 23s):
My name is Elizabeth Blackstock and I am a Motorsport journalist and author

1 (2m 28s):
Elizabeth. How'd you get into Formula? One? A question I ask all people I meet,

5 (2m 32s):
I have been into Formula one for almost 10 years now. I grew up with nascar. I was born and raised in Michigan so my whole family was in the auto industry. NASCAR was kind of like the homegrown sport for us. And I saw the movie Rush that came out in 2013 about the 1976 Formula one season. And it was like the perfect combination of my interests at the time, which were like 1970s music cars and Chris Hemsworth,

6 (2m 60s):
I can beat this guy, trust

7 (3m 1s):
Me, he's consistent, dependable,

6 (3m 3s):
Will he put his life on the line the day that really matters?

5 (3m 5s):
From that point on, I was like, I need to know everything about this sport. I need to watch the races that are happening live. I need to know everything about the history of it. When I was 18, I moved to Austin, Texas, told myself I'll just go to one one Formula, one race and get it outta my system because there's a track out there in Austin. And I got outta that race and was planning with a friend to go to Europe the next year. God, it's been so long now since, since that first race

1 (3m 35s):
For people unlike you, for people who have no idea what Formula one is, for people who only drive to like get to the mall or something, what exactly do they need to know about this sport?

5 (3m 47s):
Man, Formula one is one of the oldest sports in terms of motor sport that exists.

7 (3m 53s):
Jumping into an early lead is one Fangio number

5 (3m 56s):
One. In the early like 1930s, the prototype for Grand Prix racing, it was just a lot of rich dudes who could afford cars and wanted to go fast with their buddies.

7 (4m 7s):
Down goes the checkered flag for First Man Home, a 1, 2, 3 triumph for the cars from Italy.

5 (4m 13s):
And since then we've created it into like one of the the top cutting edge of technology and motorsport. This is a kind of racing series where you will never see a car like this on the road. That's a lot different than nascar, which is based roughly on the bodies of different, you know, Fords or Toyotas that you can actually go out and purchase Formula. One might have Mercedes as as a sponsor and a team, but you will never see a Mercedes. It looks like the Formula one car because it is open wheel, open cockpit. It's intense, it's glitzy, it's glamorous. It is essentially the top tier of Motorsport.

1 (4m 54s):
And of course because there's so much money in this sport, it makes perfect sense that it's coming to Las Vegas this weekend. Where does the story of this race start?

5 (5m 4s):
So in about 2020, obviously the C Ovid 19 pandemic kind of hit the world. We were all sitting inside watching tv. A lot of people were introduced to the Netflix series Drive to Survive for the first time. I highly recommend it.

8 (5m 20s):
Formula wonder is brutal. It can get tough, it can get ugly. What

1 (5m 24s):
A race. Amazing.

9 (5m 25s):
You can be the hero today but forgotten tomorrow.

10 (5m 28s):
Everybody's different, but the best ones can step up.

5 (5m 32s):
And when sports started to come back, Formula one was actually one of the first forms of Motorsport that was available. There is

11 (5m 40s):
Good news coming outta the world of Formula one as a racers just off their cars and get underway with the Austrian Grand Prix

7 (5m 46s):
Grand.

12 (5m 47s):
The British Formula one Grand Prix will go ahead in July.

5 (5m 51s):
I knew a lot of people in America who were just like, yeah, whatever, I'll soon in and watch this. Suddenly America turned out to be this beautiful growing audience here and the powers that be in Formula one are American, it's Liberty Media,

13 (6m 6s):
The President and CEO of Liberty Mutual

14 (6m 11s):
Media. But anyway,

5 (6m 12s):
It's, which owns Sirius XM and a couple of other little entities here in the United States and they were like, oh amazing, we've got this interest finally let's capitalize on it. And Las Vegas has always kind of been top of the list for Formula one. It kind of epitomizes the glitz and the glam of the series. I think it also embraces a little bit of the tackiness. I think that Formula one probably doesn't want to admit that it has, but it does. Hmm. And so it was first started being in toxin about 2021. We heard the rumors and then it was announced that we would have this race at the end of that year. Formula

13 (6m 51s):
One racing, it's coming to Las Vegas. I

15 (6m 55s):
Can't wait to see this street with Formula one cars traveling 200 miles per hour down this Las Vegas trip. Move on, give

16 (7m 3s):
It up for Formula one tonight in Vegas.

5 (7m 6s):
We know we haven't even had a single race there yet on that circuit and they've already signed a contract for the next 10 years. Wow. So it, you know, they, they placed their betts on this track in this race and they did it in a very big way.

1 (7m 19s):
Okay. So that's the sort of buildup and how's the execution been?

5 (7m 24s):
The execution has been a little interesting. Every new race is always a process of learning, but there are a lot of added difficulties with the fact that this race is taking place on the Las Vegas strip itself and around the surrounding areas. So they've had to repave most of the roads.

17 (7m 43s):
Months of construction on the 3.8 mile course through the heart of the city is cause traffic headaches for residents and for tourists.

5 (7m 50s):
They've built grandstands, they've drained fountains.

18 (7m 53s):
All of the healthy established mature trees in front of Bellagio Las Vegas were cut down in the middle of the night for the Formula one race.

5 (8m 1s):
They've, you know, kind of pissed off some locals in the process just because of the massive facelift that they've given the city.

17 (8m 8s):
It is a nightmare driving to work.

19 (8m 10s):
I am not able to take my stepdaughter to middle school in the morning.

20 (8m 13s):
They're making all the money and then we're just gonna keep losing money.

5 (8m 18s):
Another thing that Formula one has run into in setting up this race is the weather. And I know that probably sounds very silly, but it didn't actually occur to the powers that be in Formula one that it will be cold in the desert at night in November.

1 (8m 34s):
Wait, like they didn't, they didn't check what the weather was like at night in Las Vegas.

5 (8m 39s):
That is absolutely correct. So

1 (8m 42s):
How much money does this event cost? Oh, I

5 (8m 45s):
Saw a lot of millions of dollars. Oh

14 (8m 46s):
We'll be in it for 600 million.

5 (8m 48s):
And they were just like unconcerned. So it came out a couple weeks ago that as they were putting this plan together for this race in 2021, it never occurred to Formula one management to actually look into what the situation would be like. And earlier this season there was a race in Qatar that was actually dangerously hot. Drivers were passing out in the cockpit. They were throwing up in their tss. Physically they were struggling.

21 (9m 15s):
I don't feel well man, are you, are you retiring me? I need to stop.

5 (9m 22s):
And the following race was the US Grand Prix in October. And I was speaking to several people associated with Formula one while I was there covering it on the ground. And they were wondering if Las Vegas would be similar. And I had to announce that is not how the desert works here. It is gonna be, it's gonna be cold. We're gonna be having the opposite issue where like instead of everyone just like jumping out of their cars and getting into ice baths, we're gonna be wanting to like wrap them up in the tire blankets and keep 'em warm.

1 (9m 52s):
And what does it mean for the actual race if the weather's cold? Does it matter?

5 (9m 57s):
It does matter. The, the tires that Formula one has developed, they're special compounds that are only raced in this sport, but they're not designed for weather this cold. If you've ever tried to like drive on ice, that's essentially what you're going to be getting with these tires in order to get heat into them. Wow. They need to get, yeah, they have to get warmed up. That's what's gonna make 'em sticky.

22 (10m 18s):
We, we believe this is the lowest grip level that we've seen. It's the coldest that we've seen in Decades probably. Yeah. And so getting the tires working is gonna be interesting.

1 (10m 30s):
Are at least F one fans excited about this?

5 (10m 35s):
Well I think there, there's kind of a, a mixed sentiment among F one fans. The response that a lot of traditional European fans have had to, the growth of F one in America has been quite negative. I mean they just kind of assume that Americas are all honkeys and like should only watch nascar. So there's been kind of this, this pushback from the beginning about the fact that America has three races and other countries don't have multiple. I'm excited but that's mostly because I've been covering the, the evolution of this event and I'm really excited to see how finally it exists on the track because there's been so much speculation and not a lot of it's been good.

1 (11m 16s):
Since we're talking about Vegas Elizabeth, I have to ask even as a fan, as a city where people go to gamble, If, you had to bet, would you say this is gonna be a success or more of a failure?

5 (11m 31s):
I would go ahead and bet on it being more of a failure. I think because Formula one has already invested so much time and so much money and intends to raise there for a decade, I think they're kind of looking at it as a way to say, okay, this first year will be our learning curve. There's a lot that they already can learn from based on the way that things have gone. But I, I just don't think this first year is gonna play out quite as well as they are hoping. It was a very similar situation in Miami where the traffic was bad. The track there is built around the Miami Gardens Dolphin Stadium. So a lot of locals were who were against that stadium in the first place where against Formula one coming in.

5 (12m 12s):
There was so much disruption and especially when you consider that this is historically a community of color, Formula one didn't quite understand the concerns of the area that they were hosting the race in. I just, I think the Vegas situation has so many other variables that even Miami didn't have that we're going to, I'm, I'm trending toward it being a little bit of a a chaotic problem.

23 (12m 36s):
So box, box, box, box, box, box, box box.

1 (12m 43s):
America's been a bit of a problem for Formula one for a minute now Elizabeth has more on that when we are back. On today

Deleteme (12m 50s):
explained Support for today explained comes from Deleteme. A lot of our personal information is stored online. Our work info, our banking info, some of our personal info, all of this information could just be out there if you've been hacked or phished and in the wrong hands, well you know where this ends up. Deleteme offers a way to keep your personal information personal according to the company. They can identify and erase your data from online data brokers ensuring that it can't be sold anymore. Sarah Frank, one of my colleagues here at Vox who works on the business side of things, got a chance to try out Deleteme. I Recently had the opportunity to test out Deleteme and they did an incredibly thorough report of more than 50 places around the internet that had lots of my personal information. They proactively removed my information from a lot of sites and gave me a quick tutorial on how to remove my phone number and address from the remaining data brokers. Right now you can get 20% off your Deleteme plan when you go to join Deleteme dot com slash today and use promo code today. The only way to get 20% off is go to join Deleteme dot com slash today and enter promo code today at the checkout. That's join Deleteme dot

24 (14m 15s):
com slash today. Promo code today

Apple (14m 22s):
Apple Card is the credit card created by Apple. You earn 3% daily cash back upfront when you use it to buy a new iPhone 15 AirPods or any products on Apple. And you can automatically grow your daily cash at 4.15% annual percentage yield when you open a high yield savings account. Apply for Apple Card in the wallet app on iPhone Apple card subject to credit approval savings is available to Apple card owners subject to eligibility savings accounts by Goldman Sachs Bank USA member FDIC term supply.

0 (15m 2s):
It's

1 (15m 2s):
Me Sean Rameswaram firm today explained back with Elizabeth Blackstock who've been writing about Formula one and Las Vegas for Jalopnik. She told us that these United States have been a bit of an issue for Formula one for some time now.

5 (15m 15s):
Formula one has been historically a very European based series and from the very first year that this series existed in 1950, it has been trying to figure out how to break into the American market in the early days. That meant having the Indy 500 on the calendar despite the fact that no F one driver ever really went out there to race on it. And since then it's been a series of trying and kind of failing to find a home in the United States. They had tracks in upstate New York, they had a street circuit in Long Beach, then they went through this terribly misguided period where they were just dumping straight races into places like Dallas in the middle of summer.

26 (15m 55s):
But the drivers needed ice and cold drinks as the temperatures climbed to a hundred outside the car and 140 inside they suffered from the track, which was a mess. The State Fair Park Circuit crumbled like cheese.

5 (16m 9s):
Hmm. But like Americans are so passionate, we have a deep love of sport, we have a deep passion for all things you know that get our blood going, that get our blood pumping that we get excited about and Formula one really wants to take advantage of the fact that Americans are here, they're willing to kind of spend money. But there's just been so many issues kind of getting a foothold here in the United States. We finally kind of got that thanks to drive to survive

27 (16m 37s):
Formula one has to be always good characters and and and bad ones and heroes and anti-heroes. So I'm on on the dark side.

5 (16m 50s):
The fan base has grown so much and it just has been so, such untapped potential so far.

1 (16m 55s):
Okay, so Drive to survive sort of resets Formula one's relationship with the United States. What happens next? What's their first like big moment after this TV show?

5 (17m 6s):
So the 2021 Formula one season was the first one that a lot of fans got into after they watched Drive to Survive. So a documentary obviously is a little bit of manufactured to create compelling storylines. But the 2021 season, like you couldn't have written that one If you wanted to. Modern Formula one has been defined kind of by dynasties. So there's usually a team and a driver who will be very successful during a certain period of time. That's because that driver and that team capitalized best on a rule set that was available. So from you know, 2014 until 2020, Louis Hamilton and Mercedes were absolutely dominant.

5 (17m 49s):
The World

16 (17m 49s):
Championship record is equaled. Lewis Hamilton wins the Turkish Grand Prix and is a seven time champion of the world.

5 (17m 58s):
That was because they got that Formula right when it came to the new style of engines in the new style of car that was introduced. That's

28 (18m 5s):
For all the kids out there who dreamed the impossible.

5 (18m 9s):
2021 was the very last year of that regulation set and Red Bullard racing came out of nowhere to challenge Mercedes for the title Max first Stappen was its star driver

16 (18m 19s):
For the first time on US soil, max v Stappen wins the US Grand Prix. Lewis Hamilton has to settle for second

5 (18m 28s):
And here he came to break the kind of Mercedes dominance that we had seen and to take that championship in the last lap of the last race

16 (18m 37s):
Of all the drama, of all the controversy of all the magic moments in Formula one in 2021, it comes down to this and at this moment a championship can only be won by one and it's going Dutch in 2021. Max Stappen for the first time ever is champion of the world.

1 (19m 2s):
Okay so a crazy 2021 for F one even better than what you saw in Drive to Survive has it remained super exciting in the years have followed,

5 (19m 13s):
It has not. Formula one in 2021 introduced a brand new rule set. We have then gone kind of back into that sport of dynasties Red Bullard racing and Max First Steppen got the Formula right. They've been absolutely dominant for

16 (19m 28s):
The first time in F one history. It's 10 wins in succession, A perfect 10 outta 10 for Max for Steppen as he wins the Italian Grand Prix

5 (19m 38s):
And If, you look at this season though championship has been wrapped up for about a month already. Bob

30 (19m 43s):
Max are a three time champion. Fantastic.

28 (19m 47s):
Yeah, I'm very well guys. Yeah, I dunno what to say but it incredible year

5 (19m 52s):
And that's an other issue Vegas is facing is you know, we, we already know Max for Staffon is the world champion. There's nothing super compelling on that front and that's, you know, part of a greater issue that America has been having with Formula One is that it's it's not, it's not as exciting as it was.

1 (20m 10s):
So wait, you're saying that this whole thing that we've been talking about this entire time, this big Formula one event in Las Vegas is totally inconsequential to this sport?

5 (20m 21s):
Absolutely. You know, the Formula one has really hyped it up of like who's going to be second, who's

1 (20m 27s):
Going to be second.

5 (20m 28s):
Yeah. But it's like we already, like we already know if you're gonna place a bet on who's gonna win this race, it's gonna be max for Stepin.

1 (20m 36s):
What is that doing to like popularity and and ratings of this sport?

5 (20m 42s):
They have just fallen. I mean it's, it's been a dramatic, a dramatic problem. Formula one released some statistics. I believe that social media mentions of Formula one have dropped 70% over the course of this season just because of that amount of dominance. Even long time F one fans kind of hate seeing the same guy when everything, it's frustrating when it is a foregone conclusion. Yeah,

1 (21m 9s):
It sounds like playing Mario Kart with the homies would be more exciting at this point.

5 (21m 16s):
Honestly, you are not wrong in America obviously. Like we love the underdog story, we wanna see people like fight from the back. We wanna see competition, we care a lot less about being on the forefront of technological innovation. And so that's kind of put us off of that Formula one's response is that we're just not smart enough I think to understand it. Yeah, it's, it's like it's rough out there.

1 (21m 42s):
That's no way to get a new market.

5 (21m 44s):
No, I've always said that Formula one needs to take itself a lot less seriously. I was speaking to the, the president of the FIA, which is the company that sanctions Formula one and develops all of the rules and I asked him, are you concerned about how America is responding to your sport? And he told me no. That you know, America, yes it is different but his sport is different. So he sees no reason to change kind of the marketing structure to, you know, appeal better to an American audience. And I think that is just such a, it's such a narrow mindset. I think one of the biggest things that I noticed and have noticed at these races is I, you know, I went to Miami in the first year and I like, I come from pretty like humble backgrounds.

5 (22m 35s):
I was pretty poor when I was a kid and I could, I was so out of place in this paddock that was filled with celebrities and like fashion and designer labels and I was like, this isn't, I don't relate to this. And I know that a lot of other people who are watching don't either. And if I can feel out of place in this garage area, in this paddock after having done this for over almost a decade now, I can't imagine how a new fan must feel. You know, kind of seeing the fact that they have such little value for this audience, which I find very, very fascinating.

5 (23m 16s):
If they just toned it down a little bit, if they were willing to laugh at themselves, if they were willing to not be take everything so seriously, I think it would have such a better impact. Not just in America but around the world and the other audiences that are still left untapped.

1 (23m 32s):
You know, I saying hearing you say that makes me wonder if, if, if Vegas could be a good thing for this sport because Las Vegas famously a, a playground for the rich, the middle class, even the poor. I mean yeah you can stay at like the fanciest hotels on the strip or you can stay off the strip and like go get married for like $200, you know? Yep,

5 (23m 54s):
Yep. I think part of the issue somehow with Vegas this year, Formula one has managed to alienate both the ultra rich and like the average Joe who would be buying the tickets. The tickets pricings were so expensive no one could really afford to go unless they were super rich. But Formula one doesn't quite have the profile to attract people willing to spend $5 million for a big swanky weekend. The tickets have not sold out at the time we're speaking. There're still tickets available. I think there's a lot of room for growth next year as they kind of renegotiate those ticket prices to be that prestige product that, you know, obviously people wanna be involved in F one because it is kind of like swanky and high class.

5 (24m 39s):
But also you still need to like get people in the door. And I think as they continue with this race, that will be the biggest problem that they have to tackle. I'm excited to see how it all plays out, like on the ground in person. I hope I have, I hope it's not a mess, but I kind of do hope it is as well. Well

1 (25m 0s):
I hope you have a good time out there and thank you. You know, bring a jacket 'cause it gets cold today.

5 (25m 5s):
Oh, absolutely. I am prepared. I don't know about them Europeans, but I'm ready to roll.

0 (25m 12s):
Las Vegas Visa, Las Vegas

1 (25m 18s):
Elizabeth Blackstock. She's a Motorsport journalist. You can read her work at Jalopnik dot com. Our show today was produced by Isabel Angell. We were edited by Matthew Collette. Fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by David Herman. Special thanks to Bird Pinkerton who wants everyone to know that Williams is the best. F one team will take your word for it. Bird today explain is the best daily news team. We're rounded up by Halima Shaw. Shai Artsy Haddi, m Wadi, Amanda Lewellen, miles Bryan, John Aarons, Victoria Chamberlain, SI Petros, Patrick Boyd and Rob Byers. Our supervising producer is Amina Aldi. Our executive producer is Miranda Kennedy or Noel.

1 (25m 59s):
King is Noel. King today. Explained is distributed by wnyc. The show is part of Vox, which is totally free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners, join us at Vox dot com slash give. Thank you.

31 (26m 20s):
It's called A Motor Race. Okay, sorry. We went to car racing.