0 (2s):
Democrats are pinning their hopes to hold onto the Senate on a big old boy from Pennsylvania. Not my words, collect that big old boy to be governor. No sir. He's running first Senator. But you're right, he is. Big

1 (16s):
People have been trying to label me my entire life. I do not look like a typical politician. I don't even look like a typical person.

0 (26s):
And this Pennsylvania Senate race is kind of wild heart surgeon versus stroke. Crute versus Carhartt, New Jersey versus Braddock, Dr. Oz versus John Federman. How Pennsylvania's big old boy could upend progressive American politics. Coming up on today's flight today explained Sean Ramis firm here with Katie Meyer.

0 (1m 7s):
She's a reporter at Spotlight pa and she's been covering John Betterman's campaign against Dr. Oz. And there's been plenty to cover, including maybe a new template for progressivism in the United States.

3 (1m 20s):
Yes. The idea behind Betterman's campaign is that he can cross the aisle in these ways that other politicians can't. And so you have him now charting this course that is populist and it's successful in a way that a lot of other democrats haven't been able to achieve this marriage of progressive policy and working man every man appeal.

0 (1m 42s):
Let's talk about Betterman's origin story. Where does he come from?

3 (1m 45s):
He's originally from York, Pennsylvania, which is like South Central Pennsylvania. He grew up pretty upper middle class. He actually, he went to grad school at Harvard.

0 (1m 53s):
He went to Harvard,

3 (1m 56s):
Yes. So yeah, not to bury that lead. He went to Harvard. He's, Yeah, he's the biker bar looking guy, but he has a graduate degree from Harvard.

0 (2m 4s):
Is he like, kinda like Bazaro world, Pete Buttigieg, someone who like, Oh, that's funny. Always knew they wanted to be president one day, but instead of being like, I don't know this Nebbish dude who plays piano and speaks 17 languages, he's like this hulking cargo shorts tatted up dude who looks real working class.

3 (2m 23s):
He's pretty different. Part of what he has always said about why he got into politics is that a very good friend of his died in a car accident. He didn't know what he wanted to do with his life at that point. And he ended up joining AmeriCorps, trying to get into some public service stuff. That's when he went back and he got the grad degree from Harvard. Huh. And then he moved to Braddock, Pennsylvania to work in a GED program.

4 (2m 46s):
The collapse of the US steel industry left this borough in the shadow of Pittsburgh in ruins. Trains don't stop here anymore. Storefronts are shuttered homes crumbling.

3 (2m 57s):
And very shortly after getting too Braddock in like the mid odds, he ran for mayor and he won by one vote.

0 (3m 5s):
He won it by one

3 (3m 6s):
Vote. And then he spent more than a decade as the mayor of Braddock.

4 (3m 10s):
For those people who do remain in this small town, there is hope and it comes in the form of a very large man.

3 (3m 16s):
He became known in Braddock as the kind of guy he like showed up at crime scenes. He was very, very involved in anti-violence initiatives. People would see him out directing traffic with like a traffic fest on as mayor. He really promoted it. You know, he went on the late night show or whatever Col Bear's show was called at the time. When

5 (3m 33s):
You say your town is is open for urban experimentation, are are, are you taking part in these experiments because you look like you received a dose of gamma radiation? You're, you're a big man.

1 (3m 47s):
You're a big man. Thank, thank you for noticing. Yes.

3 (3m 49s):
There was like a 2011 New York Times article written about Federman, about Braddock. It was called Mayor of Rust. You know, national media loved it cuz it's this big interesting looking dude who's the mayor of this small town. And actually the dude is really progressive.

1 (4m 4s):
When you consider all the billions and billions that have been thrown at the banking industry. I, I think our community really cries out for, again, this, this whole notion of social justice and equity that that's really been lost I think in these days.

3 (4m 16s):
I should also say while he was Mari Brad, there was this one incident that got a lot of attention. This was a time when, you know, gun violence was pretty bad in the town. And Federman at one point said he thought he heard gunshots near his house when he was out with his kid. He saw a guy running who he says he thought, you know, shot a gun. It turned out to be an unarmed jogger who was black, who federman like detained with a shotgun.

1 (4m 40s):
I believe I did the right thing, but I may have broken the law during the course of it. And you know, I'm certainly not above the law if, if, if I did. But what I did, I did in a split second in a out of concern as the father and and the mayor.

3 (4m 52s):
And that's been a thing that dogged him a little bit, especially in the Democratic primary, this cycle where people were like, you know, that's crazy. That's a racist thing to have done. Federman says he didn't know the guy was even black. And so that's again, been kind of a push and pull with other Democrats. But it, it's also worth noting the jogger, the Philadelphia Inquirer tracked him down and he was like, Yeah, I would vote for Federman for US Senate. I don't hold that against him. Huh. So sort of a mixed bag on that one.

0 (5m 21s):
Eventually he graduates to Lieutenant governor of the state of Pennsylvania and obviously that's a much bigger platform. What is his suite of policies?

3 (5m 32s):
Yeah, so a couple big ones. You know, as, as lieutenant governor, he is chaired the pardons board and has been very, you know, anti mass incarceration, wants to make sure people who were incarcerated a long time ago have opportunities.

6 (5m 46s):
The most common touchstone that I use to describe to people that have never experienced it is, is like, well, have you seen the Shaw redemption? And almost everybody has. And I'm like, well most of of the, these people are like Morgan Freeman's character. It's like, if you think Morgan Freeman's character should have died in prison at the end of the movie, then I, I don't, I got nothing for you.

3 (6m 7s):
He wants to legalize recreational marijuana. That's been a huge thing for him. Betterman

7 (6m 12s):
Tweeting this morning, legal weed and pa pass it on.

3 (6m 15s):
Big proponent of organized labor. There's this campaign refrain he's been using for years now. The union way of life is sacred. He wants to pass the protecting the right to organize act in the Senate. He's pro-gun reform, he wants a red flag. Law wants universal background checks, but also he says he grew up with guns. You know, he's not anti-gun. He understands the value of having guns

1 (6m 36s):
As a gun owner myself and an overwhelming super majority of gun owners want responsible gun ownership.

3 (6m 42s):
Also really wants to make clear that he doesn't wanna defund the police. He also, over the course of his career, he's kind of gotten more nuanced on fracking on energy issues. He doesn't support a moratorium on fracking, which a lot of progressives in Pennsylvania do.

1 (6m 56s):
I believe that our party needs to honor the union way of life and safeguard these jobs and you know, acknowledge that we must begin the trans fur over to renewables as well.

3 (7m 7s):
So it's a real grab bag of issues. But the through line I think is it, it's calibrated to appeal to progressive voters and to some more rural working class voters who don't identify as progressive. And that's, you know, the fundamental campaign strategy here.

0 (7m 21s):
And where does that put him in like the spectrum of, of democratic platforms in the party?

3 (7m 26s):
Yeah, I think the way I like to look at it is like Democrats right now, because these parties are so divided, Republicans generally vote for Republicans. Democrats generally vote for Democrats. But then the additional voters, those kind of X factor voters who determine the outcome of an election, they're a little different for Federman than they are for many Democrats. So you've seen nationally like Joe Biden when he was running for president, really aiming to get a coalition that included some moderate Republicans, people who wanted politics to feel more dignified and politics to feel, you know, reasonable again. And that was a big part of the Biden campaign, getting those moderates. Federman, what he's going for is a more of a disaffected voter.

3 (8m 8s):
Maybe an independent voter, maybe a voter who doesn't like, you know, politics as usual feels unrepresented by a lot of mainstream politicians. And that's a very different group. And I think that's a huge difference between him and other Democrats.

0 (8m 25s):
Let's talk about the race. How does that position him against, Let me check my notes here. Dr. Oz

8 (8m 31s):
Pennsylvania needs a conservative who will put America first one who can reignite our divine spark, bravely fight for freedom and tell it like it is.

3 (8m 43s):
Oh yeah. So this is, it's a weird race. It's a really weird race. I haven't seen anything really like it, so it's kind of hard to even analyze like how this is going. One of the strange things about it, other than just like you've got, you know, know the big old boy and then tv, Dr. Me, Oz, is that not much of the campaign has been run in person. Huh? Federman, you know, he led his primary from the beginning, I'll just say that he was pretty out front. He won every single county in the primary. Hm. Oz had a brutal primary. He barely got, it took, you know, weeks to get the results because it was so close. And then in the last days of the primary, Federman had a massive stroke.

9 (9m 20s):
John Federman, the now Democratic candidate for US Senate is celebrating, but also recovering in the hospital tonight after suffering a stroke on Friday and being implanted with a pacemaker today.

3 (9m 31s):
And he was at a commission for months, basically all summer. He's been off the campaign trail, he's had some aphasia, he's had some issues speaking, although his campaign says it's getting better. But you know, he's been very active online. And so that's really where a lot of this campaign, especially over the summer took place.

0 (9m 47s):
What's he doing online? What's the ground game on twitter.com?

3 (9m 52s):
The ground game on twitter.com has mostly just been like aimed at making Dr. Oz look stupid, just dunking on him as much as he can.

0 (10m 0s):
Like when he goes to the grocery store for, what was it again? It

3 (10m 4s):
Was a Cru taste. Yeah, Cru

0 (10m 6s):
Taste. That's right.

3 (10m 8s):
Yeah. That was, it's a perfect example. Yeah. And for anyone who somehow hasn't seen it, Dr. Oz did this video actually ages ago and then Federman kind of brought it back where he was talking about grocery store prices. He was at a Red Nurse's grocery store, but he like mixed it up with Wegmans and he called it Wagner's thought

8 (10m 26s):
He was some grocery shopping I at Wagner's and I, my wife wants some vegetables for Cruda

3 (10m 31s):
Thing. Then he said he was buy, recruited there for his wife and like that included,

8 (10m 35s):
There's some asparagus that's $4. Yep, carrots, that's four more dollars, that's $10 of vegetables there. And then we need some guacamole that's $4 more

3 (10m 48s):
And like maybe tequila

8 (10m 49s):
Guys, that's $20 for Cru. And this doesn't include the tequila. I mean that's outrageous.

3 (10m 56s):
And it didn't make very much sense. Federman kinda latched down to the idea that he called it crew to say not a veggie tray, which is what many, many working Pennsylvanians would call it according to Federman. He's also been making fun of Dr. Oz from being from New Jersey. He paid Snooky from the TV show, the Jersey Shore, to make a video for Oz.

10 (11m 16s):
I heard that you moved from New Jersey to Pennsylvania to look for a new job. And personally I don't know why anyone would wanna leave Jersey, cuz it's like the best place ever. And we're all hot messes, but I wanna say best of luck to you. So

3 (11m 31s):
That's really what you've been seeing. He, he's not treating Oz like a serious candidate or a serious person.

0 (11m 39s):
How's Dr. Oz hitting back, if at all?

3 (11m 42s):
So yeah, I think initially, you know, him and his team maybe weren't completely ready to deal with this kind of unusual, very social media focused campaign. But what's now, they've kind kind of changed their tone. And what they've settled on, I think is two things. Two main lines of attack. First, you know, they're saying Federman is too sick from his stroke to be in the Senate. Oz's campaign releasing a statement Tuesday that said if John Federman had ever eaten a vegetable in his life, then maybe he wouldn't have had a major stroke. And then also os is really like, he's been hammering federman with ads. And this is not unique to Pennsylvania. We've seen this in a lot of other states. But hammering him with ads claiming that he's soft on crime.

11 (12m 20s):
John Federman wants to release convicted murderers from prison. We all know Federman loves free stuff, but we can't let him free murderers.

3 (12m 29s):
And also, I should say here, you know, O and Federman, they have not debated yet. They really haven't appeared together, but they do now have a debate on the calendar. That's October 25th.

0 (12m 39s):
How big a deal do you think it would be if Federman could defeat Dr. Oz, win a Senate seat and help the Democrats potentially keep the Senate?

3 (12m 50s):
It would be significant, I think if Federman were to win because he's the kind of candidate that Democrats haven't run very frequently. And Pennsylvania just always is worth paying attention to cuz it really mirrors the country as a whole. And so I would say Aman win, what that would show is twofold. First of all, his image is really different than most Democrats. He really does have this populist appeal. He's a guy, you know, tells it like it is that he, he's not very stage managed, that there's an idea that he's speaking from the heart. And if he wins, I think it shows that people really want that and resonate with that. And then Federman, policy wise, I think this is even more important. He's been able to get away from this thing that the Democrats have felt kind of compelled to do, which is split the difference politically.

3 (13m 36s):
He's been pretty uncompromising on issues he cares about, again, labor, prison reform, legalizing recreational marijuana. There's really been no gray area in what he thinks on that stuff. And if he wins, I think on issues like that, it shows Democrats what's possible and it might provide a blueprint for capturing a coalition. They have trouble with working class white voters who kind of left the party or starting to leave the party under the Trump administration.

0 (14m 14s):
That was Katie Meyer with Spotlight pa. It's a not for profit investigative newsroom. You can find her work@spotlightpa.org. How much that stroke might slow down. John Federman around the corner on today explained

AbbVie (14m 39s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by AbbVie. We're Always trying to understand how do we stop disease, right? Disease comes in, we try to stop it. That's how we practice medicine. An interesting thought would be, what if we actually didn't get disease? What if we prevented disease? Hi, my name is Howard Jacob, I'm a vice president at AbbVie. I had the Genomic Research Center and I also had our data integration across r and d. Better medicine starts with better information. So Howard and AbbVie have been studying a collection of more than 1 million human genomes to advance our understanding of disease. It's a large amount of data. Your DNA extended end to end from all of your a hundred trillion cells would go to the sun and back 666.5 times. All of that genetic information will have major implications for the future of healthcare. Helping doctors tailor treatment to every patient's needs. For many genes, there are tests where you can actually say, Oh, this is the dose you should take. This is when you should take it, and this is why you're taking it. It opens the door for prescribing medications differently and a different doses for each individual. Their work is already saving lives, but genetic researchers are far from satisfied. I just know that we can do more. I know we can enable physicians to practice medicine better. I know we can enable patients to live healthier lives. I know we can develop better therapies and we just have to do it. To learn more about how AbbVie is shaping the future of medicine, visit here now.abb b I e,

On with Kara Swisher (16m 19s):
Kara Swisher here. You may know me as the person who made Mark Zuckerberg's sweat. Push Kim Kardashian to talk dollars or got Secretary Mayor Pete Buttigieg to eat a juicy strawberry live on stage. Okay, that one was awkward, but that's what I like to do. Make powerful people comfortable with being uncomfortable. Now I'll be doing that on my new show from New York Magazine on with Kara Swisher. We'll bring you news and the news makers I'm paying attention to and we'll do it twice a week on Mondays and Thursdays. Go check it out on with Cara Swisher, wherever you get your podcasts.

15 (16m 58s):
He wears car, Jordan car. Talk about Betterman

0 (17m 4s):
Today. Explained, We're back. John Federman has the potential to be this game changing candidate for the Democrats. His race could decide who gets to control the United States Senate. So his health, his post stroke state, it really matters. So he sent our Philadelphia Bureau, Chief Miles Bryan to check up on him. Miles. Yeah. So Federman was off the campaign trail for months recovering from his stroke. He's only relatively recently been doing campaign events again. So a couple weeks back, I left my house in Philly and drove a few hours north to Scranton PA to attend a Federman rally.

0 (17m 44s):
Scranton, What's he doing in Scranton? Well, Scranton has sort of an outsized rep for a couple of reasons. The biggest one is still probably because it's the setting of the office. They call it Scranton. What? So you let City Scranton, I've never seen the show you let Trick City. So whenever we play clips, I get to learn a little bit about the office. Yeah, it's actually, it's very popular. It's on Netflix. You should check it out. But politically, the Scranton area is known for being a bellwether. Hmm. Northeast Pennsylvania was a democratic stronghold for decades. It's where Joe Biden was born. Right. But Trump and Republicans made big inroads there in 2016 and to a lesser extent in 2020. Hmm. And Betterman's campaign slogan is every county, every vote, you know, like we just heard from Katie, he's really making a play to reach voters that other Democrats haven't or haven't in years.

0 (18m 32s):
And I wanted to see that in action. Okay. And I also wanted to see just how much his stroke was affecting him and how that was landing with potential voters. Yeah, I want to hear about that. Tell us what you saw when you got to Scranton. So it was held in a big sports arena in Scranton. About a thousand people showed up. You get inside in the soundtrack was extremely boomer political event. You know, a lot of Tom Petty bangers. It starts with speeches from a couple of other Pennsylvania politicians. Then Betterman's wife Giselle takes the stage.

10 (19m 2s):
For those of you who don't know me, I'm Giselle ba Federman, a proud advocate, a former dreamer and the second lady of Pennsylvania. Or I like to be known as slop slop. Everyone is always afraid to call me that. They think they're gonna offend me. But I love it. It's so funny.

0 (19m 22s):
Giselle is a big part of Betterman's political brand. She's extremely popular. You know, I talked to people who said they came out to see her just as much as they came out to see her husband. Huh? She's, she's the Michelle Obama to his Barack. Yeah. Okay. So once Slop got done talking, what did Federman have to say? Well, he takes the stage in his signature black hoodie. Lots of applause.

1 (19m 51s):
Wow. Scr.

0 (19m 53s):
Scr. He sounds a lot of breath. Hey, can, yeah. Can you just sound it off to

1 (19m 57s):
Me? Can I ask you a favor? Can we hear this? Can we hear this loud enough? So you know who can see that in New Jersey

0 (20m 8s):
That's sort of betterman go to Joke on the trail. But as you could hear in that audio, he's not getting it out quite as smoothly as he would like. And you know, Katie told us that Betterman's been recovering from a pretty serious stroke for a few months and his campaign says he's doing really well and this sort of auditory processing issues he's having don't indicate any problems with his, you know, cognition or, or thinking. But I was just surprised by how clear those issues still were in his speech

1 (20m 40s):
Before Dr. Oz came in. Whoever heard the word kuda craze ever in their life.

0 (20m 46s):
Kuda craze. He meant to say Crute. Yeah. Did the audience notice that he was off his game? You know, I was looking around and most people seemed totally unfazed. And then there was this moment in the speech where Federman addressed the effects of his stroke head on.

1 (21m 4s):
So let me ask you a very serious question though. How many one of you in your own life have had a serious health challenge? Hands, Personally, Any of

0 (21m 16s):
You? Lot of hands go up.

1 (21m 17s):
How many of your parents? Maybe

0 (21m 18s):
More hands,

1 (21m 19s):
Your grandparents

0 (21m 21s):
Even more hands.

1 (21m 22s):
Kids

0 (21m 23s):
This point, everyone's hand is up.

1 (21m 26s):
I'm so sorry to know that. I certainly, I certainly know, I genuinely hope that you don't have a doctor in your life making fun of that or telling you that you aren't fit to serve or to work at your job. Right?

0 (21m 47s):
Hmm. So he is flipping it on Dr. Oz. You're making fun of someone who's gone through a serious health crisis. Did that resonate? Yeah, it really, really did. And I heard as much so from voters. I talked to a couple of dozen people before the rally started as they waited in line and I asked all of them what they thought of Betterman's stroke. And let me play some tape. Here's Tom Gilmore.

16 (22m 12s):
I had a heart attack. You know, I'm, I'm still here. I'm still kicking. I think I'm pretty functional and, and with it, as long as, as long as he's, as long as he is healing and he's gonna get back to 90%, I'll take 90% overall as any day.

0 (22m 27s):
Now, Tom's a Democrat, but I heard essentially the same thing from the independents and Republicans I talked to too. Here's Gary Thomas. He's a Trump voter who was weighing whether to vote for Federman or Oz in November. So what do you think of John Federman?

17 (22m 43s):
I like, I like the way he dresses cuz he's not, he don't, he don't act like a politician in a monkey suit.

0 (22m 49s):
Federman had a stroke a couple months ago. It's, you know, been in the news a lot. What do you think about that? Does it, does it influence your opinion?

17 (22m 55s):
No, I had a heart attacks in the past. So it don't matter. You're capable of doing it. You gotta brain just don't let the stress get to you and take blood thin like a baby aspirin and keep it going.

0 (23m 7s):
And I gotta tell you, Sean, like a dozen other people brought up health challenges they'd had or someone in their family had had. When I asked them about betterman's stroke, America is a very sick country, and betterman's health problems seem to actually add to the image he's cultivating as a normal person. I wonder if it's just that betterman's established image that goes back to, you know, Braddock, overpowers any health difficulties he's had. It sounds like from that last, you know, Trump supporter you spoke to that it does. Yeah. I think that image that he's cultivated of himself is really powerful and durable in, in voters' minds.

0 (23m 47s):
Okay. Three words come to your mind when I say Federman.

16 (23m 52s):
Iconic class outsider and larger than life personality.

18 (23m 57s):
Salt of the earth and ally and

19 (24m 1s):
Tall.

20 (24m 3s):
We think he's a down to earth guy. He's a Pennsylvania guy. He just seems like a

19 (24m 8s):
Down to earth guy.

0 (24m 9s):
Why do you like him

19 (24m 11s):
Down to earth? It's down to earth. He takes no crap. He says it like it is

21 (24m 16s):
Pennsylvania guy down to earth, salt of the earth. Well

19 (24m 20s):
Said. I really like him as a person, not just for the politics. I mean, I think he could go to Washington and kick, kick their ass.

0 (24m 30s):
Salt of the earth. It sounds like a whole lot of people who have no idea this guy went to Harvard. Yeah. I mean, it's probably obvious at this point, but what struck me is that Betterman's appeal is so much deeper than his policies. In fact, a lot of voters I talked to didn't bring up any of his policies. They just brought up what you heard. And to be honest, it sort of reminded me of how voters talked about Trump. Hmm. You know, I, I covered a President Trump speech in Scranton in 2020, and I heard similar things from voters. They were excited about this earthy outsider who could physically dominate his opponents in Washington.

0 (25m 11s):
Here's Mike. He's, he's one more federman voter. He didn't wanna gimme his last name. You know, why do you like Federman?

22 (25m 19s):
I think he breaks a lot of the stereotypes. I think one of the things that Republicans like to use against Democrats is that, we'll, we're gonna get trampled over sort of the weak, I think stereotype comes to mind. He totally breaks that.

0 (25m 33s):
So even after a stroke, betterman's biker guy vibe remains dominant for people like Mike. But that might not be enough to, Winman has been leading in the polls for the whole race. But in the last couple of weeks, O has narrowed that gap. Analyst say Dr. Oz's attack ads that Hammerman for being soft on crime are working as of this week. The race is basically a tossup. Miles. Bryan Philadelphia bureau chief at today explained he thought the office was on Netflix, but apparently it's not anymore. I guess I'll never know how good it is. Our program today was edited by Matthew Collect fact, checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by a theme, Shapiro and Christian Ayala and Paul Robert Mosey.

0 (26m 21s):
The rest of the team includes Victoria Chamberlain, Halima Haws, Petro Amanda, Lou Ellen, Aha, Artsy, Hot Modi, and Noel King. Avi. Extra help this week from Jillian Weinberger. Our audio fellow is Tory Dominguez and our supervising producer is Amina aa. We use music by Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. We're on the radio and partnership with wnyc. We're a podcast that's a part of the Vox Media podcast Network. Oh and no podcast Monday on account of Indigenous People's Day back in D Feeds Tuesday With more today. Explained.