1 (2s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. I'm starting today's show with not a warning. Exactly. But a note that we will be talking about despair, and we'll be talking about a suicide in the spring of 2018, a man named David buckle took his life at sunrise in Brooklyn's prospect park. David had been a successful lawyer, but he left the law to become an environmental advocate. Climate change made David despondent, the sheer bigness of it. And he decided that the way to force the world to pay attention was to take his life in a public and very unusual way. Self emulation, David set himself on fire.

1 (45s):
Here's what we're gonna do coming up. We're gonna talk to David's husband about his despair, and we're gonna talk to a climate activist who has also struggled with despair about how not to lose hope

Avast (58s):
Support for today's show comes from a vast here's. What a vast wants they wanna help you travel across the internet securely across the internet, around the internet, through the internet, their Avast one program gives you the ability to take control of your safety and privacy. Online from data breach monitoring to firewall protection, to PC speed up Avast. One wants you to feel at ease. When you get on the internet with a vast one, you can confidently take control of your online world without worrying about the following viruses, fishing attacks, ransomware hacking attempts, and many other cyber crimes. Learn more about a vast1@avast.com.

Google Safety Center (1m 41s):
For over 20 years, Google has been helping protect Americans from cybersecurity threats from turning two step verification on by default for 150 million people, which adds an additional layer of account security with a single tap to protecting new sites and human rights organizations with project shield. Google is building advanced technologies that raise the bar for the entire industry and help make the whole internet safer for everyone. Learn more@safety.google,

1 (2m 17s):
Terry Calbert, you and David were together for 34 years first as partners. And then his husbands, tell me what you can about David. What type of person was he?

3 (2m 26s):
Oh, he was, of course I'm biased, but he was an amazing individual who kind of his whole reason for being was to work, to make the world a better place. He was very goal oriented to a fault. Once he decided he wanted to try to achieve something, he would study it, learn about it, become an expert and then create a plan for what he wanted to achieve. And, and he pretty much achieved everything he set his mind to. But climate change, I think was a much bigger issue. So he wasn't, you know, that was not an issue he could solve on his own

1 (3m 9s):
In his normal day to day life. What were some of the things he did that might Telegraph to me, this is a person who cares about the environment.

3 (3m 17s):
Just all sorts of ways. He, you know, in his private life, he was very frugal. If he ran water in the sink to get it to a certain temperature, he would collect it and then use it to water plants. So he would never waste any water. Or if he, when he took a shower, he would turn off the shower when he didn't need to have it on, was soap up and then turn it off. He was very frugal in terms of his clothing. Very basic clothing did not try to buy a lot, was not a consumer. And those are all I think for him, those are all choices about, you know, how to be in this world in a way that minimizes our footprint on it.

1 (3m 59s):
And so he moved in that direction a decade before he died, David left the law, his job at Lambda legal and started working in community agriculture in Brooklyn.

3 (4m 8s):
He became quite interested because one of the strategies that a lot of older people were really interested in and took to was the community gardens. That Austin became the backbone of urban farming in cities, around the us and also in New York. And he became really interested in that and discovered that there was a community farm within walking distance in red hook, Brooklyn, that was about a 20 minute, half an hour walk. And so he went over there and started volunteering and discovered that when they would clean the urban farm, when they would have refuse like that, they were just kind of throwing it away.

3 (4m 48s):
And he realized you shouldn't do that. You should be composting it. So he then, because of that developed what eventually became the largest composting site, the nation that was run entirely resources. And that's what he was doing up until his, his death

1 (5m 6s):
Working with the earth. That way gets you a lot less attention than being a successful lawyer. I'd imagine. Was he happy with the work he was doing?

3 (5m 14s):
Oh, he loved the work he was doing. And actually, you know, he was never really into the specific attention as a lawyer. That was never anything that drove him. Really what interested him was the kind of impact he was having on people's lives.

1 (5m 31s):
Did you and David ever talk about the impact of the work he was doing versus how big the problem was?

3 (5m 36s):
No, we never talked about that directly. I mean, we did talk, it's not that we didn't talk about climate change and global warming of course, but really what I think became such a tremendous barrier for him is he couldn't figure out where he would go next to continue to drive meaningful change. And, and there was kind of this sense that everything seemed so fragile with what he was trying to do. And I think that frustrated him deeply

1 (6m 10s):
Fragile. In what way?

3 (6m 11s):
Well, I think you get tired of fighting actually is I think that's what was going on, made her in life. You know, he got tired of it. It's like, how, how long can you constantly be the person who's trying to focus people on what the problem is and where the solution lies. And he would see it and know it, but, and was often the person who would speak out, but it often meant that it was uncomfortable for other people. And you know, after a while you get tired of doing that, you get tired of always being the person who's reminding folks that they can do more. And why aren't they given the crisis?

3 (6m 54s):
We are we're in the midst of, and yeah, I, that was, I think one of his major challenges, he had a goal, but he couldn't figure out where to go next. The status quo of society is so hard to move and change. And here we need massive change at every level. I mean, in some ways I would argue kind of the fundamental ways in which our world is set up in the economy has to drastically change. We can't be a consumer economy anymore.

3 (7m 35s):
That earth will not support, support it anymore. And yet we have, all of our systems are set up based upon consumerism and we measure whether or not we're successful by how much stuff we make and sell. Anyway, that I know that was part of David's frustration is trying to figure that out. Like where do you go?

1 (8m 1s):
Eventually David did make a decision and I wanna ask you about that decision. And I understand that this is very difficult. Do you feel that, you know why David took his life in the way that he did and when he did?

3 (8m 14s):
No, I have to say, you know, no one knew that he was gonna do this. It was a complete shock to everybody. He had, you know, I found stuff afterwards that showed, he'd been planning this for a couple weeks.

0 (8m 29s):
Oh.

3 (8m 30s):
So it wasn't something that was a spur of the moment. I think he decided it was something he needed to do. And I think, and I didn't understand the degree to which this was the case, but you know, for the six months up to this, he was in a very kind of dark time. I think he just was very, I can say is frustrated. He couldn't figure out what he could do. I felt like there were other times in his life where we went through this and we figured something out, oddly enough, like the month before he died, it was like, he, it must have been once he decided to do this, he just, he found comfort in that because he didn't, he oddly enough seemed better.

3 (9m 27s):
But I think there are a number of things going on for him. He was getting older and I think it bothered him that he, you know, this was his site ran on human labor. And it, that was the primary way in which they were able to compost the tons and tons and tons of material every year. And that was getting harder for him, you know?

3 (10m 7s):
And I think also in his mind, in addition to, You know, he had been, we had traveled to areas of the world where Buddhism was practiced and he was aware of, of course, the Buddhist tradition of setting oneself on fire when he really wanted to bring attention to something. And I suspect erroneously, he kind of grabbed hold of that thought if I'm getting old and I can't affect the change, I wanna change. And maybe I can do something in how I die. That will, that will cause people to wake up.

3 (10m 48s):
I mean, the irony is, is he, you know, he it's like he knew this, but he, you know, all these things, you're, you're in the news for 15 seconds and the news doesn't, they're not interested in really his message. They're, it's, it's the sensationalism of somebody who set themselves on fire. And so, you know, I, you know, I just, I just think the whole thing's a complete waste and he lost his way. If he had been able to hang on, he would've had so much more impact, but I think given his skills and talents, I'm not sure he could quite figure out how to, where that would be.

3 (11m 34s):
And I think that probably was really not. I think I know that was really hard for him cuz his whole reason for living was if I can continue to contribute to make this a world a better place. Great. If not time for me to go,

1 (12m 1s):
I wanna ask you lastly. I mean, I'm wondering if there's anything that you look around at today that you think might make David optimistic if you were still with us?

3 (12m 12s):
I would say, I think the places he would put his hope in would be the people who are individually really driving change in their lives and in their communities. You know, he really believed at this point, that change won't happen unless unless we individually decide what is it that we're going to do to participate and help drive the kind of change we need to save the earth and that no matter how small the act, every act becomes important, it's like the ripples on a pond. I think he really believed that if, if everyone started thinking this way, the change would happen.

3 (12m 59s):
And you know, my fear about the news right now is that the news focuses on how terrible things are getting and it's too bad. It's not balanced by all the various efforts that are going on. There's so many people now who are really trying to come up with solutions to reduce our carbon use, to change farming, to change kind of how we consume things. There's just so much going on. And I think he would find great hope in that.

1 (13m 41s):
Coming up on today, explained how to hope and to fight when despair is real.

Into It: A Vulture Podcast with Sam Sanders on Apple Podcasts (13m 53s):
Hello, it's Sean, our colleagues at New York magazine just launched their new flagship podcast from vulture called into it each week on Intuit host, Sam Sanders will sit down with his colleagues across the vulture newsroom to discuss the pop culture that they can't stop thinking about. We're all drowning in options. So much to watch, listen, to read. It's a lot. And the Intuit team is going to help us understand what's worth our time. The first episode is out now it's got a breakdown of how Beyonce releases her albums and how they've evolved. New episodes drop every Thursday morning and you can find Intuit wherever you listen.

5 (14m 40s):
This is a public service announcement from unexplainable,

0 (14m 45s):
A YN

6 (14m 46s):
One simple action connects you

7 (14m 49s):
Across species

6 (14m 51s):
Across millions of years of history. You are a Lama, an English bull terrier, a little kitty cat, a Tasmanian devil because yawning is a secret superpower. You can change the temperature of your own brain. And if you're feeling distracted, a yawn might be just what you need. So stop stifling your yawns, oh God, open wide and yawn with pride. Don't hog. All the yawning for yourself. I can't stop. Can't stop. Share your yawns with your family, with your friends, yawn at your teachers who just did that.

6 (15m 35s):
Get your teachers yawning back at you. Start an infinite loop of yawns

5 (15m 42s):
This on unexplainable. Why we yawn and why you're probably yawning right now. Follow unexplainable, wherever you find podcasts.

8 (15m 52s):
I'm sorry. Are we not being clear? We're trying to tell you that the adire planet is about to be destroyed.

1 (16m 2s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. David Buckle's suicide was very rare, but it was not a holy isolated event. This past April, a climate activist named win Bruce self emulated outside of the Supreme court in what his friends and family told reporters was a protest against inaction on climate change. Tim de Christopher remembers these stories. He remembers David's story. Well, Tim lives in Maine now, but a few days before David died, he had been walking in prospect

9 (16m 32s):
Park. It's something that, that had an impact, not just on me, but with a lot of climate activists that I knew. And even a lot of relatively new climate activists that might have been going through kind of their first wave of struggling with despair and the, the kind of inevitable, emotional and spiritual challenges of, of doing this work. It's something that rattled a lot of people, a lot of us feel that that inadequacy of our efforts and, and that hopelessness about being able to turn things around and that frustration with society's lack of response and, and a lot of activists, including myself, you know, struggle with with suicidal thoughts.

9 (17m 19s):
So yeah, it's definitely something that rippled through the community.

1 (17m 22s):
You've struggled with suicidal thoughts.

9 (17m 24s):
Yeah, absolutely. You know, particularly for the, the past eight years, I've had a, a number of times where I was pretty close to taking my own life. I don't, I don't wanna say it's an inevitable challenge of, of this, of this work, you know, because it's a deeply personal and, and complicated thing. Yeah. Some of that is probably related to my, my climate activism and you know, what's going on in the world, but, but it's also, you know, related to my own shame and loneliness and things like that. And I'm sure the same is probably true of folks like David buckle and, and when Bruce, you know, that did make it clear that that their act of taking their own life was somehow connected to climate change, but I'm sure they had a lot of other stuff going on for each of them as well, which I think is, is always the case for, for folks who commit suicide, that, that it can be really complicated.

9 (18m 22s):
I think it's something that, unfortunately we don't, we don't talk about enough in the climate movement or in activist movements or in society in general. But you know, I think it is. I think it's important to be more open both about the despair that a lot of us feel about climate change and, and about the, the personal, emotional, and, and spiritual struggles that a lot of us are facing.

1 (18m 46s):
I wanted to talk to Tim to Christopher in part, because he's made his own choices that edge into extreme territory, including one very dramatic act of civil disobedience that made him a household name for a few days back in 2009.

9 (18m 60s):
The specific thing that was going on there was at the very end of the Bush administration. They were auctioning off oil and gas leases for lands, right outside of arches and canyon lands national parks.

10 (19m 11s):
The next one would be partial number 884.

11 (19m 15s):
The bidding was already underway when de Christopher sat down armed with a white laminated card with the number 70 in big black letters. He just watched it first, then raised his card sporadically, simply driving prices higher. And then he kept the card high, actually winning a dozen bids in a row worth, nearly 2 million.

1 (19m 36s):
You are aware that you could get in trouble, right? Yeah. The bureau of land management is not like it's, it's not a, it's a federal organization. Yeah.

9 (19m 46s):
Yeah. And, and, you know, and I, and I knew that I would likely go to prison for that. And, you know, I kind of sat there once I saw the opportunity there in the auction room, I kind of sat there and said, okay, well, if I went to prison for a few years, could I live with that and thought, yeah, that would, that would suck, but I could live with it. But on the other hand, if I see this opportunity to potentially make a difference and, and don't take it. And 20, 30 years down the road, as the climate crisis continues to unfold and I'm meeting young people that have been born into a broken world.

9 (20m 26s):
And, and I knew that I had a chance to potentially do something about it, to reduce their suffering. And I didn't take it because I was afraid of the consequences. Could I live with that? And that's what I ultimately decided that, you know, no, I, I couldn't live with that. And it was that, that long-term view that really motivated me to action. So I, I started just to drive up the prices and would get out before I won anything. And then finally realized that I had to actually keep these parcels outta the hands of oil companies. And, and so I started bidding to win and I, and I won 14 parcels in a row before they finally stopped the auction and took me out and, and, and questioned me about what I was doing.

9 (21m 10s):
And I made it very clear that this was an act of civil disobedience to stand in the way of this auction, because it was a, a crime against the American people and a threat to my future. And so that kind of put things into chaos that was about E exactly a month before Obama took office. And so it, it created enough confusion for long enough that things were still up in the air when he came into office. And the, the first act of his new secretary of the interior, Ken sellar, was to invalidate that auction and acknowledged that they didn't follow their own rules in the first place. But of course they still continued to prosecute me.

1 (21m 50s):
You were sentenced to prison. Yeah.

9 (21m 52s):
Yeah. I was sentenced to two years in prison, served 21 months. You know, then I, I got accepted to Harvard divinity school while I was still incarcerated. And, and so went there shortly after I was released and have done a lot of different things since then spent some time as a hospital. Chaplain worked as a massage therapist for a few years and am now a farmer. And I also started an organization called the, the climate disobedience center and work with lots of other folks that are engaging in, in civil disobedience to defend a livable future.

1 (22m 26s):
Would you call what you did in your twenties extreme? Is there any part of you right now that looks at your 20 something self and says, oh, kid, you should have done that differently

9 (22m 38s):
In terms of disrupting the auction and Eli disobedience that I've taken. You know, I think that was very much an alignment with what was necessary and okay. And actually came out of kind of my most grounded moments. It's not the place that I'm at anymore taking that level of risk or, or playing that role in the movement. I think I am and in a different place right now, but, you know, I'm glad that I took those actions when I did.

1 (23m 8s):
I wanna take us back to David buckle and something that his husband told us. He said, David got tired. And so I wonder as you consider his actions in the grand scheme of actions that people have taken to draw attention to what is going on in the world, is there anything that gives you hope,

9 (23m 28s):
You know, that sense of, of being tired, particularly of being tired of playing a certain role is something that I can really resonate with. And, and that's something that was very true for me when I went through a, a really big period of depression and, and was pretty suicidal. But part of, part of what got me through that was, you know, realizing that there's still lots of opportunities to reinvent myself and to engage with the world in different ways to step outside of that role. And, you know, that's where I pulled back from being a pretty much a full-time activist and engaged in lots of other different kinds of work.

9 (24m 15s):
Like as a farmer, you know, I spent yesterday planting potatoes and weeding the garlic. And like, none of that is revolutionary. None of that is, you know, the job that climate activists assigned to themselves of changing everything, changing our whole energy system and transportation system and agricultural system and political system and economic system, you know, that's a incredible burden that we put on ourselves.

9 (24m 56s):
The thing that perhaps not gives me hope, but gives me faith in and commitment to stick around is knowing that, that I am a part of this web of life that is far bigger and more complex than I could ever possibly understand. And that, you know, I'm, I'm 40 years old now and still have plenty of time left and with the way that our actions ripple out through others and through time exponentially each day, that we're here holds infinite potential for long-term impact in ways that we can't possibly understand

1 (25m 55s):
Tim to Christopher. He's a farmer these days, if you or someone you know, is having thoughts about suicide, there are resources out there to reach the suicide and crisis hotline in the United States. Call 9, 8, 8 today's show was produced by and edited by Matthew Colette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul mosey with an assist from Christian I'm king it's today explained

12 (26m 46s):
Noel, what are you still doing here?

1 (26m 50s):
Haven't been fired yet. Oh,

12 (26m 53s):
No. Okay. That's not going good. No, what I meant was this is like coming at the end of the show. And here we are, we don't usually talk at the end of the show, but we're here with an important message.

1 (27m 1s):
That's well, we're here with an important ask. That's right. One of the ways that this show gets made is with listener contributions. People given us a couple bucks here and there to help the show out.

12 (27m 11s):
And we're not just talking about this show. We're talking about V's great video explainers, the stuff that Vox does on text, the stuff that you see from Vox all over your, your streaming services and your podcast platforms, you can support that journalism and help keep it free for everyone

1 (27m 28s):
By going to vox.com/give.

12 (27m 31s):
Thank you.

1 (27m 33s):
Thank you.