0 (1s):
We could start this episode of today, explained in lots of places we could start in January, 2024. When museums across the country all of a sudden just shut down exhibits.

2 (12s):
We have taken off display or covered the cases with objects that are of cultural sensitivity. Or

0 (20s):
We could start with the 1990 law. They're attempting to comply with

3 (24s):
The Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act.

0 (28s):
Or we could start in the decades prior to the passage of that law when Native American tribes were clamoring for it. It

4 (35s):
Wasn't just given some Cheyenne woman didn't make that dress and say, here you go. Those were gotten in a really, really violent, genocidal manner.

0 (43s):
Or we could go to the 19th century when some of the country's most prestigious archeologists spent their time grave robbing. On the show today we're gonna talk about how all the affected tribes might finally get their ancestors. And there's stuff back.

HBO (1m 3s):
Support for this show comes from the Regime Academy Award winner Kate Winslet stars in the new HBO original Limited series, the regime from Executive producers of Succession HBO's, the regime premiers March 3rd on max

The Weeds Podcast (1m 20s):
Is living in the United States bad for the health of black Americans. When black immigrants come to the United States, their health status is on par with white Americans. But what happens is after one to two generations, their health status actually declines to that of Black Americans, How racism ages black people's bodies. That's this week on The Weeds new episodes every Wednesday.

8 (1m 51s):
Ila Ga you are listening to today explained

0 (1m 58s):
This might be hard to believe or maybe to you. It's totally believable that American museums to this day in 2024, hold hundreds of thousands of stolen Native American objects and even ancestral remains. But they do. Mary Hudetz has been writing all about it for ProPublica.

8 (2m 17s):
I'm also Sika, which means I'm a member of the Crow Tribe, which is in Montana.

0 (2m 22s):
But thanks to new regulations inserted into a 30 ish year old law called nra, the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act. That's all starting to change right now.

8 (2m 34s):
So a lot actually has been happening lately. Museums have been issuing apologies in the past year. First,

9 (2m 42s):
I must begin by apologizing to all of our Native American colleagues, both on campus and in the Native American communities for the actions of our university over many decades.

10 (2m 53s):
I think we've had a shift in realizing we're not the experts, right? It's the people that whose history that we are interested in, which are the experts, and if they are still alive, they're the people that we need to learn from and listen to.

8 (3m 6s):
They've started to file federal notices which appear publicly online, saying that they're ready to repatriate thousands of ancestors that they had held.

11 (3m 17s):
Forensic experts are now working with Dartmouth College after finding Native American remains. Those remains were previously unreported.

8 (3m 24s):
And then probably most significantly in the past month, new federal regulations went into effect.

12 (3m 30s):
The provision now requires museums and federal agencies to obtain consent of lineal descendants, Indian tribes or native Hawaiian organizations to display cultural items.

8 (3m 41s):
They require museums to reassess their collections, review them in the next, you know, several years. They're gonna have to make determinations about their origins. And the regulations now require museums to get informed consent from tribes to conduct scientific research on them.

0 (4m 2s):
Tell me about these regulations. Where do they come from? Certainly not Congress. They don't agree on anything.

8 (4m 7s):
The newest iteration of the federal regulations actually have been sort of years in the making. But they were not given much attention or much urgency by the Interior Department until about a year and a half ago or so.

13 (4m 22s):
History comes full circle in the confirmation of Deb Holland as the US Secretary of the Interior.

8 (4m 28s):
And it was under Deb Holland who is appointed by Joe Biden, that the interiors department started a review of their regulations. A

13 (4m 37s):
Member of the Laguna Pueblo Tribe of New Mexico Holland's family traces back 35 generations on American soil.

8 (4m 44s):
They consult with tribes. They received dozens of letters from museums telling them whether they should or shouldn't enact these new regulations. And now they've arrived at this process.

0 (4m 55s):
So tell me what happened. The federal government, Deb Holland, the Biden administration, they, they add some regulations to this law nagpra about a month ago. And what is it like flipping a switch all of a sudden museums start complying. How does it turn out?

8 (5m 13s):
It feels at the moment like a flip of the switch. I think one of the most dramatic things that happen is that museums, very large ones in major cities started to close exhibits that featured native cultures. Two

14 (5m 28s):
Exhibition halls at the American Museum of Natural History are now closing because of new federal rules.

12 (5m 33s):
Cleveland Museum of art brings in people from far and wide, but today not all artifacts are on display.

8 (5m 41s):
And that I think came as a big surprise to the public, especially if they hadn't, you know, been following repatriation and, and nagpra, which

0 (5m 49s):
Let's be honest, the public was not doing

8 (5m 51s):
Correct. Yeah. Black

15 (5m 54s):
Curtains and cover displays inside Chicago's field. Museum moves the Museum had to make to follow changes to the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act.

2 (6m 4s):
We have taken off display or covered the cases with objects that are of cultural sensitivity. Museums

8 (6m 12s):
Need to take time to understand what they had in their exhibits that were sacred and that many tribal cultures would prefer not to have an exhibit. So now I think many of the closures are temporary. Some of them involve simply closing a door. And so it is really dramatic what the public is seeing in certain instances.

0 (6m 35s):
Okay. Now let's talk about the work of sorting all of these ancestral remains and these objects out. So how exactly does it work? Does a tribe or family approach these institutions and say, Hey, we think these are our ancestors, or we think these are our objects, here's our proof. Is there some sort of third party who's going to decide where, where objects and, and ancestral remains go?

8 (7m 1s):
There is not a third party, but yes, NAGPRA does allow tribes to make claims. In fact, it's very much sometimes called a claims law. So if a tribe makes a claim to their ancestors held at a major institution, that institution had like three months to offer an initial response and then at some point offer a decision. But until these new regulations went to fact, museums had been able to tell tribes that items in their collection were culturally unidentifiable, which means they could say they didn't know where items came from. They couldn't decide if the tribe's claim was a rightful one. And I think Nag Pro wasn't written in a way that required museums to have definitive proof.

8 (7m 44s):
It understood that when museums took from native graves, they did it in such a, an aggressive way that they didn't document everything. They took so much at a time. But now the new regulations, I think they require museums to give more deference to tribes and their histories. One of the things that had been missing for so many decades in the Museum world was, you know, not enough credence was given to native people about their understanding of who they are and and where they come from and the time they had in their homelands.

0 (8m 14s):
Do any serious offenders come to mind?

8 (8m 17s):
So we analyze the data and found that tent institutions held half of the ancestors that had yet to be repatriated, which is worth noting. But the museums that get the most scrutiny are very often the very big ones that we hear about. Like the field Museum, American Museum of natural history, even though they're not in that group of 10, Harvard University has the third highest number of ancestral remains.

0 (8m 42s):
Well, we don't like to punch down here at today. Explains, so let's, let's punch up. Let's talk about Harvard. How did Harvard wind up with so many ancestral remains?

8 (8m 53s):
Harvard is a very influential institution, including in anthropology. And in the mid to late 18 hundreds, their peabody Museum of archeology and mythology set out to collect ancestors from all across the globe, really. But the collecting happened also very aggressively in the United States. And so we have a map of collecting that happened by Harvard where human rains are taken from, it's pretty much every state in the country. Hmm. And their work also influenced other institutions, state universities that wanted to be like Harvard. Today, Harvard continues to hold more than 5,000 ancestors.

8 (9m 34s):
They're making progress. But I think a lot of tribes feel like they still have maybe more atoning to do or a a ways to go and and mending their relationships given that harsh history. And I would say, I think people also feel in more modern times that under nagpra, since 1990, Harvard had been, Harvard may dispute this, but had been one of the more resistant institutions to nag pro or or had acted the slowest in responding to tribes claims, which was also sort of seen as influential for other institutions.

8 (10m 17s):
When we first started on reporting on repatriation, Harvard University's record came up repeatedly. Not only the numbers, I mean the fact that they were patriot fewer than half of the ancestors they initially reported holding. But we also heard of stories that tribes were asked to submit large numbers of documents or their claims to their ancestors were rejected for different reasons, in ways that seemed very painful for tribes. And one of the stories that came to us that started to really highlight how slow the nag for process can be and just how resistant Harvard may have been to tribes in the past, was the story of the Wabanaki tribes in Maine who spent 30 years asking Harvard to return ancestors.

8 (11m 12s):
The tribes make repeated claims each time Harvard would tell the Wabe tribes that they didn't have enough evidence to show. I believe that the ancestors they sought to claim that were taken from Maine around the 1930s could be people that they had any sort of affiliation to, cultural affiliation to. And so initially Harvard gave the evidence arguments, then they gave it again when the tribes came back and asked, you know, a second and a third time. But what we found, which I think might have helped us really understand why NRA has taken so long in some, in some places, was the fact that Harvard, not to the tribes, it was what they weren't saying to the tribes.

8 (12m 3s):
It was what they're saying in the emails exchanged with other institutions and among staff was they, at least some in Harvard believed the remains were maybe too important to science or just too old to be affiliated with the tribes of Maine, which today are the only tribes. The WAC tribes are the only tribes of, of federal recognized tribes of Maine. So no one else could make a really acclaim to them. As time went along, new generations of waki were starting to become interested in repatriation. And so they tried to use archeology to convince the archeologists that they could have a claim to the ancestors.

8 (12m 47s):
Harvard still denied them and those claims to archeology included, like explaining the tribe's time on the land that they have known to be theirs or where they had established their cultures many, many, many, many centuries ago. And trying to explain how maybe certain burial practices were not necessarily different from certain burial practices that they might have today. And still, I think Harvard decided in the end that the ancestors could not be repatriated to the tribes in the ends. Harvard did return the human remains to the tribes again.

8 (13m 28s):
It took 30 years.

0 (13m 30s):
So what was it that finally convinced Harvard?

8 (13m 32s):
It's hard to know again, because Harvard did not speak with us. But what we can tell from our timeline and understanding Harvard and its history, it to finally started to arrive at a, a reckoning at the highest levels of the institution. Mm. To understand its history of sort of harming communities of color and its poor repatriation rate. And they start to issue a series of apologies, but they're very broad apologies or public apologies. And when they started to do that around 2020 and 2021, the Wabanaki tribes decided to take advantage of that moment and remind Harvard they still held the remains of their ancestors that had spent 30 years asking for through a repatriation

0 (14m 21s):
Nuts. Amazing. So basically it wasn't the Waki tribes pleading, proving, bringing receipts to Harvard. It was George Floyd.

8 (14m 31s):
Yeah. It was Harvard facing new public pressure over its past following the murder of George Floyd

0 (14m 42s):
As a member of the Crow Tribe in Montana. I want to ask you what it's felt like to report on these stories as an indigenous person. And also, if you don't mind sharing how it feels now to see after 30 years nagpra being taken more seriously by the federal government, by museums and institutions across the country.

8 (15m 5s):
It was really difficult to decide whether to even embark on the reporting, knowing how massive it was. 600 museums must comply with nagpra. We were gonna review the records for all of them, but in addition, I think we talk, and I, I know it's not just native people, but we speak of the deceased I think in a way with such care and respect. And there are ways that we do it that are different than maybe the mainstream culture would. So just to even sort of embrace a topic that was about people who have passed on, it took a lot of, you know, thought for me and I'm, I'm, you know, I think now that we're here on sort of the other side of our reporting, it's gratifying to see the reward.

8 (15m 53s):
But I like to be careful with the tone. 'cause there's still nearly a hundred thousand ancestors in museums. There could be a long ways to go. And it's worth whether you're a reporter or the public to kind of keep the need for scrutiny in mind. 'cause I think this issue may still be with us for a while.

0 (16m 26s):
Mary Hudetz is a reporter at ProPublica. You can find all our reporting on repatriation at ProPublica dot org. While we're back on today explained, we're going straight to the source to hear how museums are dealing with these new repatriation regulations.

Mint Mobile (16m 55s):
Support for the program today comes from Mint Mobile. At the end of the day, your phone is basically just a little rectangle that lights up, but keeping the lights on for that little rectangle can run you a pretty penny. Hey, the rectangle itself can run you a pretty penny. Luckily meant mobile offers plenty of premium wireless plans for cheap. Their plans start just $15 a month and you can choose from three month, six month, or 12 month plans. So you won't even need to deal with a monthly bill. You can get unlimited talk and text as well as high speed 5G data, and you get great rates if you're buying for yourself or for a family. And a Mint family plans just start at two lines. You can also keep your same phone and phone number when you move over to a new plan to get your new wireless plan for just 15 bucks a month and get the plan shipped to your door for free. You can go to Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. That's Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. You can cut your wireless bills to 15 bucks a month at Mint Mobile dot com slash explain. Additional taxes, fees and restrictions apply cement Mint Mobile for details.

Noom (17m 59s):
Support for the program today comes from Noom who would like to remind you that your body is like no one else is. Your body is a snowflake and they wanna help you with your snowflake. According to Noom. They build a plan specifically for you based around psychology and biology even helping you understand why you might crave that one specific food at the same time every day. I've never craved the same food at the same time every day, but maybe Vox iss, Sarah Frank has Using Noom. I liked how easy it was to get set up and I liked their super friendly features that allowed me to track and input my workouts, goals, moods, and stress levels every day You can stay focused on what's important to you with Noom psychology and biology based approach. Sign up for your trial today at Noom dot com. That's NOO m.com.

HBO (18m 54s):
Support for this show comes from the Regime Academy Award winner Kate Winslet stars in the new HBO original limited series, the regime, the darkly satirical story of a modern authoritarian regime as it begins to unravel within the walls of the palace. The charming and terrifying chancellor Elena Burnham played by Winslet becomes increasingly paranoid and delusional her staff fears for their lives as everything from bad breath to speaking out of churn get you removed from the palace for good intentions. Escalate further. When a peculiar outsider slides into her inner circle, the chancellor has swept up in his unorthodox worldview, pivoting everything from her fitness routine to her foreign policy. Together they'll prove their nation's worth on the world stage or end up a humiliating international disaster from executive producers of succession HBO's. The regime premier's March 3rd on max

0 (19m 60s):
Today. Explain is back. I'm Sean Ramas from. And in another life I used to report on new exhibits at museums. And let me tell you, when a Museum has a new exhibit, they want to talk about it. But what we discovered in the making of this episode is that when museums across the country are being forced by the federal government to close exhibits Museum, people are much less excited to talk. But Kat Shteynberg was brave enough to join us.

17 (20m 27s):
I'm the assistant director and curator of exhibitions at the McClean Museum, which is at the University of Tennessee here in Knoxville, Tennessee.

0 (20m 34s):
Now per ProPublica's reporting this past November, the University of Tennessee has the sixth largest collection of un repatriated Native American remains in the country. So Kat kinda work in a ground zero. We asked her what a stroll through the McClung Museum might've looked like in say, 2019.

17 (20m 54s):
I think you'd see what you'd see a lot of museums. I think you would see something that felt familiar, which was a very time-based narrative that sort of walks people through archeological practice. You would probably also at that point have seen belongings, which are ary objects, and it It would be focused on archeology but not on native perspectives.

0 (21m 17s):
And we asked her what it might look like now. We

17 (21m 20s):
Actually had an exhibition that was about repatriation and was sort of focused on that removal of objects that sort of emptiness. That exhibition opened in August of 2022, and it closed in December of 2023. So funny enough, if you were here in January last month, basically that exhibit would've been gone already.

0 (21m 38s):
We asked Kat how the McClung Museum went from focusing on the familiar to exhibiting emptiness.

17 (21m 44s):
So what happened is, in 2019, we had a nag PRA assessment of all of the archeological objects on display in our Museum. And in August of 2021, our university's office of repatriation invited 21 tribes associated with the state of Tennessee to a meeting to officially consult about the museum's nag Pro assessment of its exhibitions. And then in December of 2021, there was a virtual consultation. And at that time, tribes expressed their frustration that belongings or ary objects and were still on display. So from January to March of 2022, we took down 142 known belongings as well as 164 belongings with limited provenance from view.

17 (22m 32s):
And then we started putting together text that we thought would describe nagpra and repatriation to the public. So there's been a lot of great reporting lately that has brought repatriation to the fore. But for the average member of the public, they've still never heard of that law. And we decided to put the emptiness of our cases on display as a way to sort of make a point about that.

0 (22m 56s):
So you're just displaying nothing

17 (22m 60s):
In some cases, yes. There was also a lot of text, maybe too much text now looking back on it. But as you might imagine explaining the complexities of the law, explaining basic concepts like sovereignty, how it's a civil rights issue. But there were a lot of empty cases and there were a lot of cases that were simply covered because they had information that we knew was inappropriate or offensive to our tribal partners.

0 (23m 24s):
When people come into the Museum and see a lot of text, but maybe not a lot of artifacts or objects, are they disappointed? What do you hear from people when they come in and see a sort of history lesson?

17 (23m 39s):
It's a mixed bag. I will say that certainly there were some people that didn't understand why we were doing it, didn't read the text, that were disappointed that objects that had been there before had come down. But again, we felt like it was really important to be transparent about it. You know, a lot of museums are covering up spaces, but there still might not be some of these explanations of why that's happening. And we just felt that that would be more confusing in a lot of ways to leave the empty spaces, but to not have any explanation of why we were doing it. Hmm.

0 (24m 8s):
Did this approach of displaying blank space and lots of text explaining why people were seeing blank space, when you guys came up with that approach, did it feel radical? It's kind of like John Cagey, right?

17 (24m 23s):
It did feel radical. Yeah. We were very influenced by another Museum scholar whose name is Steven Lubar, and he had a medium post called Exhibiting Absence that definitely influenced us. He was talking about a lot of different situations in which museums might have to put the emptiness of a display sort of on display itself. Like that's literally a part of the exhibition. And something else that really influenced me was there's a Chickasaw scholar and curator, her name is Heather aone, and she developed a methodology called the core tenets of indigenous methodologies. And basically those would be respect, reciprocity, relationships and responsibility. You know, at that time still sort of covid times, we were thinking a lot about responsibility in the Museum responsibility to ourselves, responsibility to others, responsibility to our collections.

17 (25m 14s):
And that's sort of another gauge that we use to develop the exhibition.

0 (25m 19s):
I haven't personally heard or read about this particular pushback in articles about nagpra, but are there people out there who say, Hey, if you take all these things off display, you're robbing children, adults, whomever of of education on native history, whatever it might be. And, and if so, what? What would you say to that Museum visitor who may be felt that way?

17 (25m 47s):
I think that the goal with all of this work is to center and to share native perspectives. And so everything that we do has to go back to that question is are we centering native perspectives here? And we need to do everything that we can to do that. So that can't just be one sided. I can't just be like, well I need this data or I need this and so I'm going to ignore the rest of this. Being ready to return belongings to native communities has been a law for over 30 years. And so at some point it feels very frustrating for folks to say, well, I don't, I don't like a federal law that was passed, you know, over 30 years ago. It's sort of a frustrating conversation to have.

17 (26m 30s):
I will tell you though, it still is a conversation that is had and that's why I think so much attention has been drawn to it in the past few years is because this still happens in museums and you know, in institutions all the time. And this is a basic human rights conversation as well. And of course it was after years and years of, you know, native protest and activism that the law passed. And yeah, I guess at this point I don't really think that we need to revisit that.

0 (27m 14s):
That was Ka Shteynberg. She's a curator at the McClung Museum of Natural History and Culture at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville. Our program today was produced by Laura Bullard and Hady Mawajdeh. We were edited by Matthew Collette, mixed by Rob Byers and David Herman and fact checked by Kim Eggleston. Thank you Kim and thank you for listening to today. Explained

5 (28m 3s):
Support for the show comes from the Regime Academy Award winner, Kate Winslet Stars and the new HBO original limited series. The regime from Executive Producers of Succession HBO's. The regime premiers March 3rd on max.