1 (3s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King, and earlier today I went online and tried to book a table at the famed Noma in Copenhagen. It's game and forest season. So moose, mallard and reindeer are on the menu, but I couldn't get a table. Noah's booked up through the end of the season, and that is okay ultimately because in this economy, spending $500, the fixed price before wine on any meal is a lot. And it's not just for me that this feels unsustainable. Noah's renowned chef, a man named Renee Redzepi has acknowledged it's too much for him too. He's closing the restaurant saying this is simply too hard, and he's gonna turn Noma into a food lab. Nomas considered by many people to be the best restaurant in this world.

1 (46s):
So how is it possible that it can't survive? And what does that mean for the places where the rest of us go to eat?

2 (59s):
Hey y'all, this is Josh Mochi, host of The Pitch, a Vox Media podcast where real entrepreneurs pitch real tech investors for real money. In this season, we're letting listeners like you invest in the startups on our show, hear the next billion dollar idea way before anyone else.

1 (1m 19s):
That's kind of

2 (1m 20s):
Sexy. Go make the money, honey. Follow the pitch. For our best season yet, new episodes start dropping weekly on February 8th.

3 (1m 31s):
It's the new year, and for some that means resolutions to eat healthy food and get in shape. You've probably heard the standard advice to lose weight, eat fewer calories than you burn. But we at Gastropod wanted to know, is a calorie a calorie no matter what food it comes from? And is one calorie for you the same as one for me to find out? We visit the rooms where calories are measured and the labs where scientists are proving that the numbers on our food labels are off sometimes by quite a bit. So is the calorie broken? Find gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (2m 9s):
It's today explained. AM Noel King. Evan Kleiman is the host of good food on K C R W. Evan is never eaten at Noma and Copenhagen, but she does know Renee Redzepi.

4 (2m 19s):
Renee Redzepi is, you know, the words genius I think would not be inappropriate here. He's just one of those people whose passion, curiosity, and focus, managed to result in this very different experience of what a restaurant is and what the food is served in that restaurant.

1 (2m 45s):
Where did he come from?

4 (2m 47s):
Shepp Renee is the child of a Danish mother and an Albanian father who was an immigrant to the Republic of Macedonia when it was still Yugoslavia. And he was raised both in Denmark and in Macedonia.

5 (3m 4s):
And until 92, when the war broke out, I spent quite a lot of time in Macedonia every year. It was a completely different lifestyle from the Western world back then. It was extremely rural. You ate what you had yourself, which meaning what you could grow in your work, the land you harvested.

4 (3m 19s):
The Macedonian experience for him left its market, was a multi-generational household in a rural setting. So he got to run around, explore nature, and of course the, the house was always filled with people and filled with home cooking. And I think that that closeness he felt to the land and to the experience of being a kid, running around exploring things, never left him

5 (3m 47s):
As a, as a child. It's fantastic to grow up in that sense because you are out there on the field, you're eating things when they're just harvested. And it makes me perhaps see possibilities in some products where a hundred percent native just see it as something old-fashioned or that that can only be seen in one specific context.

1 (4m 7s):
When does he decide that he's going to become a chef?

4 (4m 10s):
When he was 15, he decided that instead of continuing on in high school, that he would go to culinary school. Yum. That is not uncommon in Europe. In Europe they have vocational avenues for people who don't wanna go to college. And so there is a very robust educational and apprentice system in place. And so it isn't uncommon for a person that young to make the decision and then soon thereafter find themselves slaving away at the lowest levels in a palace of dining.

1 (4m 47s):
And was he in a palace of dining or was he in like an Applebee's?

4 (4m 50s):
He was in a very high level restaurant in Copenhagen for many years. Huh. And then after that, he got a position at a restaurant in the south of France. I believe.

5 (5m 2s):
You have to go back in time and understand in the nineties that in that time as a cook, French food was the only thing you looked towards. You thought that you were gonna cook French food in Denmark. That's what I always thought to myself.

4 (5m 16s):
And then after that, he started to do various STAs or internships in other parts of the world, including the famed EL in Spain and the French laundry in California.

5 (5m 28s):
You come from somewhere, the collective of you belongs to a lot of different influences. And in the case of mine, one of the main influences that gave me my philosophical drive in cooking came from my experience at Albu back then. And I'm ever grateful for

1 (5m 46s):
That. And then how does Noma come about?

4 (5m 49s):
I believe he was 23 or 24 when a money guy in Denmark gives him the opportunity to be be the head chef of a new restaurant that he's opening and that becomes Noma. And

1 (6m 3s):
Then what is the reception and what does he become known for?

4 (6m 7s):
I, I think it's really helpful to look at Renee as an artist. And I don't say that about chefs almost ever, because I really do believe that cooking at nearly every level except the absolute most rarefied, is a craft, not an art. Oh,

1 (6m 28s):
Good

4 (6m 29s):
Distinction. But he starts working and he starts developing as a, I mean, he's a human who has all the curiosity and intelligence and voraciousness to learn still, even though he's head of this kitchen.

6 (6m 44s):
I think it's so easy often just to go back to what you know, but that's not where we want to be with this restaurant. That's not where I want to be with this project or this, you know, culinary life that we've chosen at at the restaurant Loma.

4 (6m 60s):
And he, I think, influenced by what he experienced in California where when he was there, it was very much an ethos of farm to table local. I think that ethos drilled into him, and I think he want, wanted to give himself the challenge of trying to see if he could accomplish cooking from his local environment, given that it was an Nordic environment which no one had ever done.

6 (7m 34s):
That's the thing that make the whole clockwork start the brain tick. I really don't know. I'm searching for answers. Well, I need to read, I need to study, I need to talk to people, we need to assemble, we need to figure out the solution. And that's when new things happen and you learn more about yourself and, and, and the world. So I love that.

4 (7m 57s):
And so he begins to create what was named the new Nordic cuisine.

5 (8m 4s):
We found out that trees can be an ingredient in themselves. The sap, the shoots, the leaves, and even the wood can be used. We found snails and mahogany clams, berries when salted taste like olives.

4 (8m 16s):
And that really hit the foodie world big time because it was such a challenge and so unusual and it was truly something new.

5 (8m 28s):
We are indeed astronauts not exploring the moon, but Mother earth.

4 (8m 32s):
So Noma opens in, in 2003. In 2006 it appeared for the first time on the 50 best restaurants in the world list. It was number 33. Hmm. But then it steadily began to climb and in three years it was number three and one chef's choice, which meant that the chefs around the world were on that list, loved it. Then it hit number one three years in a row from 2010 to 2012. And, and you know, in all of this, we've been talking about the restaurants and the diners, but it's really hard to overstate the influence he's had on chefs and cooks from all over the world who then begin to knock on the door and ask for internships.

4 (9m 25s):
Because to have Noma on your resume, it's like shorthand saying, I have experienced this rigorous creative and focused experience at the highest level.

1 (9m 42s):
You've interviewed Renee Redzepi. Do you have any insight into why he's closing Noma?

4 (9m 48s):
I think it's something that has been in the works for him for a while. I mean, he is not a person to make a decision this big overnight. It's, it's interesting because I interviewed him at the end of the year and listening back to that interview, I can hear all kinds of hints. For example, he talked with such joy and affection about a a 30 day walk he took through Japan, staying at just regular people's houses and in, you know, humble ins along the way.

4 (10m 28s):
And I think he's a person, I mean, he's 45 and he's looking forward to the rest of his life. And he's married, he has kids. And I think that this kind of experience, being able to take a month to do nothing but walk through a food culture is something that just feeds him and is something that is very difficult to do when you have the pressure of a daily restaurant on your back. Also, this whole sort of reassessing of what work is for people, what labor is and what is fair and what is kind of inhumane came very solidly to roost in the restaurant business.

4 (11m 18s):
During the pandemic restaurant work, it's brutal. I mean, it's very difficult work that is profitable on the backs of the lowest pave. And for years, Noma and other fine dining restaurants at this level are fueled by unpaid interns. And in October of 2021, Noma started paying interns. And I am sure that that experience of having to meet that payroll was a come to God kind of moment. Can't imagine it would've been anything else.

4 (11m 59s):
You know, if you go on the Noma website and you click on people, the list of humans it takes to run that place is kind of like the movie credits of a movie like Avatar. It's just this huge list of people and you have to support all those people

1 (12m 25s):
Ahead in the second course. I will never eat at Noma, but Noma matters for the less pricey places I and you eat. And Evan is going to explain why

ClickUp (12m 42s):
Support from program today comes from click up. They wanna remind you that Benjamin Franklin's organizational system was pretty complicated. He made a list of values like frugality, temperance, industry, and then wrote a goal for E one. He ended up with 13 daily goals. How many daily goals do you have? Which sounds like a lot to keep track of more than 200 years later. Our lives and schedules are more complicated than ever. But how many daily goals do you have? Seriously? Click Up is a collaborative platform that helps bring together all the tools you need to do better, work faster. It can house all your tasks, docs, spreadsheets, I bet it could house your daily goals. You can get total visibility into all your initiatives and keep everyone on the same page, 21st Century style. If you wanna start the new year off right for your business, you can check out, click up and use the code. Explain to get 15% off click ups, massive unlimited plan for a year, meaning that you can start reclaiming your time for under $5 a month. Listeners can sign up today@clickup.com and use the code explained. You can take your team's productivity to the next level with click up today,

8 (13m 53s):
Music pop Quiz time. Can you identify these three sounds? That's an 8 0 8. It's made by pitching and distorting the sound of a kick drum. And it's now replaced bass guitar in countless pop records from Drake to Kim Petris. Okay, number two, That's a vocal chop, a short sample of a singer cut up drenched in reverb and made totally ubiquitous through the hands of EDM producers like Skrillex. All right, last one. That's a Reese space. It's a sludgy synthesized baseline created by producer Kevin Reese Sason in 1988. You can hear it in genres like Jungle Drum and Bass UK Garage. And it's even featured all over Taylor Swift's latest record.

8 (14m 36s):
The sounds of popular music are always evolving. If you want to be able to know all of its sounds, the Switched on Pop podcast will break it down for you. I'm Charlie Harding, the co-host of Switched On Pop. And if you can name this sound, honestly, you should come on the show. Show and tell us about it. Switched on. Pop comes out every Tuesday, wherever you get podcasts.

1 (14m 59s):
It's today explained. We're back with Evan Kleiman, who's the host of good food on K C R W. She's also a chef herself. Evan Renee Redzepi says he's gotta close Noma because he can't afford to do it anymore. It's become too expensive. But if I were going to eat at Noma, I would pay around $500, which feels to me like a ton of money. I, I might pay $30 for dinner at Applebee's and they're doing okay. Like what, what is the breakdown here of cost versus,

4 (15m 25s):
Oh, you can't, I mean the, they're not in the same, they're not in the same world. You can't compare them.

1 (15m 31s):
Would you mind explaining why? Because I, I think it's an obvious question for people who don't eat at places like

4 (15m 36s):
Noma. Yes, $500 is a huge amount of money and you know, I've never been to the restaurant in Copenhagen, partly because, you know, it would have been a choice to get on a plane, find a hotel, pay that money, and you know, for me that was a very difficult decision and obviously I never made it. But there are a lot of people who made that decision and not all of them are billionaires or even millionaires. People would often just include it as part of the entertainment or the experiences or the adventures of their travels. In Scandinavia, Noma, where it is now, and it, it moved in 2017 to an island that is still part of Copenhagen.

4 (16m 26s):
And it isn't like one building, it's, it's a compound. So the restaurant itself where people sit and dine is not one room. It's kind of like several different huts. And then there's the large r and d facility. It's, it's a whole infrastructure that you need to support as well as all the salaries and all the benefits.

1 (16m 55s):
Okay.

4 (16m 55s):
It would be better to compare it to your local family run neighborhood restaurant, which in its own way deals with the same amount of financial pressure as Noma does. You know, depending upon what city it is. There's rent, there's taxes, many, many, many different kinds of taxes. You know, I was a restaurateur. I had a restaurant for 30 years, so I know about this. There is all kinds of insurance and there's payroll and then of course there's, you know, your physical and mental labor, which is not inconsiderable in the restaurant business.

1 (17m 36s):
I think you make a good point. Let's not compare this to Applebee's, which has something like 1500 plus locations in the us but what are the financial challenges of a fine dining restaurant that maybe you wouldn't find at a chain restaurant?

4 (17m 48s):
I think it's even worse, maybe in restaurants that are just below the fine dining model, because in fine dining, the customer understands what they're paying for and is willing to pay for service that is usually included. And if not, they tip like crazily. But in a regular restaurant that maybe isn't quite fine dining, but is really a nice restaurant, this idea that most restaurants still rely on the diners to leave a tip to make their payroll is so antiquated and is really a conundrum.

4 (18m 38s):
And yet this is the model on which all restaurants live or die on. And I just think it's absurd. I really do. It's just it needs to die, but diners won't let it die.

1 (18m 55s):
The vast majority of people can't throw down the kind of money that it would take to eat at Noma. And yet it seems important to people in your line of work that this institution is closing. Tell me why a person who might never have the opportunity to eat at NOMA should care about Noma.

4 (19m 11s):
The Apex is really important to any discipline. The people that are creating the best, the most interesting, the constantly changing, you know, a lot of restaurants, their menus never changed. My, my menu never changed or changed very little over the course of its 30 year existence. You know, it was a snapshot of a certain thing. Their menus change constantly. To me, one of the saddest parts is in a way Noma acted as an incubator for so many chefs and cooks who wanted to have that experience of being in this rigorous environment where they could really hone a particular type of craft and then go out into the world and, and internalize it and create something that would be wholly theirs.

4 (20m 4s):
So that will be to a lesser degree available. And that is something that really affects everybody. Your

1 (20m 14s):
Answer makes me think of something. So did you ever see the Devil Wears Prada?

4 (20m 17s):
Yes, of

1 (20m 17s):
Course. Okay. Remember where Andy is wearing this blue sweater and she says something, flip

9 (20m 23s):
Something funny.

10 (20m 25s):
No, no, no. Nothing's, you know, it's just the,

1 (20m 28s):
And Meryl Streep then lays out how three years ago that color blue was super popular in very high fashion.

9 (20m 35s):
What you don't know is that that sweater is not just blue, it's not turquoise, it's not lapus, it's actually sirian. And you're also blithely unaware of the fact that in 2002, Oscar Loreta did a collection of Erian gowns. And then I think it was Eve Salk, wasn't it? Who showed civilian military jackets? I think we need a jacket here. And then Sirian quickly showed up in the collections of eight different designers.

1 (21m 0s):
Do you think there is a comparison here that fine dining starts at an apex, but then it might trickle down into the sort of place I might go and pay $40 or $50 or $60 for dinner?

4 (21m 12s):
Absolutely. 100%. That is a really, really good analogy. Fermentation is like the first thing I think about 20 years ago you didn't see all these, you know, lacto, fermented pickles made out of many, many different kinds of food stuffs on millions of different dishes and you know, thousands of restaurants all over the world. But you do now the idea of foraging and, and finding unusual ingredients out in nature that maybe you wouldn't expect. Now. Y you know, they'll pop up.

1 (21m 53s):
What are some other things?

4 (21m 55s):
I think the idea of playfulness. Hmm. Because if you go to Noma, it's not a palace of fine dining in the sense that three star Michelin French restaurants have always been, there aren't linen tablecloths, there aren't little poofs sitting next to your seat for your purse. There isn't this hushed environment where like a church where you're afraid to laugh. It. It's a very, very playful informal, extremely beautiful, but in a very rustic, informal way. And I know that, at least here in Los Angeles, I mean that totally, you can see in every high-end restaurant, there are almost no white tablecloth restaurants anymore.

4 (22m 47s):
More.

1 (22m 52s):
Let me ask you, Leslie, Evan, did you see the movie, the Menu?

4 (22m 55s):
Yeah, of course.

11 (22m 59s):
Welcome to Hawthorne. I'm Julian Slow, and tonight it'll be our pleasure to feed you over the next few hours you will ingest fat, salt, sugar, protein, bacteria, fungi, various plants and animals, and at times entire ecosystems.

1 (23m 23s):
This made me think a lot about Rene Redzepi. This Porsche has been so put upon and the creativity has been stripped from what he does, and he is accountable to an angel investor and he goes, nuts.

11 (23m 35s):
I've allowed my work to reach the price point where only the class of people in this room can access it. And I've been fooled in trying to satisfy people who can never be satisfied. But that's our culture, isn't it? And my restaurant is part of the problem.

1 (23m 52s):
Is there anything to the idea that the way this system is set up is so stressful for chefs and for the people who work with them? Is there something to the idea that this kind of stuff drives people crazy? Well,

4 (24m 3s):
First of all, chef Julian Slovic in the movie is not Renee Redzepi

1 (24m 8s):
Fair play. I'm glad you, I'm glad you cleared it up. Yeah,

4 (24m 11s):
And Hawthorne is not Noma, I would say the menu is the opposite of of Noma and Redzepi, but to me, watching the menu, that felt to me like it was hopped by servers who wanted to get their revenge on all the people that they waited on. But I do think that the idea of mental health in the restaurant world is a very real challenge right now and something that is finally after way too many years being addressed. You know, the nature of the work is long hours in the kitchens, in very trying physical environments under a great deal of pressure when you're actually doing service, getting constant reviews, you know, minute by minute, by diners, I mean, just like any job where you are pushing yourself and you're being pushed simultaneously.

4 (25m 13s):
I mean, it's a pressure cooker. Cooking in a kitchen is a young person's game, and especially at that level. And you have to have the stamina, the energy, and in some ways the ability to absorb things that are injurious to yourself. You know, that kind of devil may care. Young person's attitude of just flinging yourself into something with your whole heart and soul. And then you grow up and you take your eyes off the plates and you look outside the windows of the restaurant and you see that there's a world, you know, some people want more balance.

4 (25m 58s):
And I think all of the restaurant world is trying to figure out what that balance looks like and how to achieve it. It's a challenge.

1 (26m 14s):
Today's episode was produced by Heidi Modi and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.