2 (0s):
The federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge Biden can lead on reproductive Freedom by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions. The time to end hide is now paid for by American. the Liberties Union Inc rights for all dot-org Covid-19.

2 (46s):
Am I right a few months ago? The entire world watched bodies pile up in New York City. We read about doctors and nurses losing their lives. It was harrowing and all the while we saw images of people in Florida hanging out on beaches partying and now New Yorkers are slowly returning to some semblance of normalcy and Florida

3 (1m 13s):
man

4 (1m 18s):
tonight Florida finds itself in a harsh Spotlight. The state was one of the first to reopen now, it's breaking records for new infections, Florida reported more

2 (1m 28s):
than 15,000 new cases yesterday that shatters the one-day record for any state ICU bed capacity in Amy Dade County the epicenter of the nation's new epicenter. Now it nearly ninety two percent

4 (1m 41s):
and Rising volume of covid patients coming to the hospital is five times higher than it was a month and a half ago. We spoke to one of the leaders in the emergency department who said listen, we have seven ICU beds available, but we're doing everything we can to ride that wave right now and not get overwhelmed by the patients who keep coming in day after day

2 (2m 1s):
Florida's got 500,000 cases. Is and counting their daily case tolls have outnumbered Continental Europe something like 8,000 people have died that only guys had to go via you've been covering this crisis for w LR n public radio in Miami. How did things get so bad? They're Florida had the heads up right for one thing. Florida was late to close down and And we open too soon and in March, the governor had not yet ordered a shutdown of a lot of businesses.

2 (2m 45s):
And so people had actually started staying at home on their own and that helps Florida a bit for a while as New York got really bad, but once you've reopened, I mean we recently had Disney World do a partial reopening

4 (2m 59s):
the Mickey Mouse and Tinkerbell meet and greet are not happening right now, but you can find Mickey Minnie the whole Fab Five. For bail and all the characters you want to see pretty much all around the park. It's like a special magical

2 (3m 13s):
surprise and Major League Soccer had a tournament in Orlando MLS confirmed today that six players from FC Dallas have tested positive for the coronavirus this ahead what has been reopening things where people are gathering when it doesn't have a control over the spread of this disease shopping malls are open and you'll see, you know, parking lots full of people and the Other problem too is that there's no Statewide mask mandate and so it's up to mayor's to set these and it's I think very confusing for people and Florida is a state where people tend to live close to their families and that's caused a lot of problems with younger people visiting parents and grandparents and and spreading the virus or just people celebrating graduations or you know, it's summertime and people want to be together with friends.

2 (4m 5s):
And so I That's a whole bunch of reasons. But the way this has been managed is just been very confusing and no strong leadership to get these numbers down. What's the governor doing now that you guys are setting records and that Florida has become like the global epicenter of the coronavirus. The governor has been working on improving the testing because that's going to be a big problem that he's recognized for a while people were waiting two sometimes three even four weeks to get the results back and of course, sir. During all of that time people are going around spreading the virus until they know if they have it or not. And so this week, we now have some more rapid testing.

2 (4m 48s):
It's a 15-minute test for people who are either 65 and older or for children or for people who have symptoms and there has been a slight Improvement in money allocated for contact tracing that's also been a really big problem the state just really Had a lot of problems getting its contact tracing going and so that effort which has really helped in other states and other countries to get people to isolate at home just really hasn't been present here in Florida to the extent that it should given the population size and Ford has got a lot of retirees are elderly people being hit harder than others in Florida some of the hardest hit people have been those who live in nursing homes or assisted living facilities.

2 (5m 36s):
And that's because a lot of the certified nursing assistants who work at these nursing facilities. They work more than one job for a lot of them. I've spoken to Union Representatives who tell me they earn about $12 an hour. And so they have exposure by working at more than one place. A lot of them don't have health insurance. And so it's been really a big problem in terms of the spread at nursing homes. And so at one point more than fifty percent of the deaths in the state were at these facilities and Governor Rhonda Sanders has been talking a lot about this new effort underway.

4 (6m 21s):
We have created over the period of the last few months 23 covid only nursing facilities that have over 1500 beds and these are facilities that can be used to transfer a covid positive resident out of a nursing home. Home to a place where they could be properly isolated. They could also be discharged from the hospital to a covid only facility, even if they're still covid positive because the facility is set up to deal with that and you don't run the risk of putting them in a regular nursing home and spreading it amongst the seniors.

2 (6m 54s):
So to be clear here, they're taking people who have covid out of hospitals and sending them to like covid only nursing homes. Exactly and they actually this was done in New York. They and other states as well in New York at first it had been mandated on nursing homes to take patients in Florida. The nursing homes agreed to it because they're going to get more reimbursement money from the state for taking these patients. So somebody who's an older person who lives at a nursing home. They cannot by state rules. They cannot go back to that permanent nursing home until they test negative twice.

2 (7m 35s):
So what they do is they go to another nursing home that pledges it can take more people and keep them separate from the permanent population. I've heard Outreach from family members. There's one in particular that let the residents know a week before the new patients were allowed to come in and that's not enough time for a family member to transport someone who I know if someone was 98, it's not that easy to take someone out of a nursing home at that State and find a place for them to live safely. It sounds Super dangerous what have you heard from people who have family in these nursing homes? I've spoken to a few and one of them is Barbara Fleming and she used to visit her mother pretty much on a daily basis.

4 (8m 19s):
One of the head nurses came in and told me that visiting would have to stop until things calm down with covid. So, you know, it was really difficult. My mom and I both cried as we held each other and didn't know how long it would be until we were able to see each other again

2 (8m 34s):
and her mother fell ill. Ill and died at a hospital

4 (8m 39s):
my heart felt like it had broken into two. I would never see my mom again. I was hurt. I was angry because someone at the rehab it infected my mom and all I could think of is how could this have happened to my mom who was healthy and happy and loved life so much then they called me from the rehab and told me that I had a week to pick up my mom's stuff. On that they would box it up. And then I had one week which I'm afraid to go do because the place is covered in covid. There's everybody's got it now.

2 (9m 16s):
And so she just said she's just going to keep what she had if her mother and those belongings are just she'll never get them. This just feels sort of inexplicably irresponsible like all of this could have been avoided It and Governor DeSantis isn't really changing his game plan on anything. Well, the one change that I see is that he's really focused on improving the testing situation and unfortunately for the last few days testing was shut down at the state funded sites because of the tropical storm you say yes, but he is implementing these fast wings at those sites where people who have symptoms I was or who are 65 and older and also children can get tested

4 (10m 10s):
quicker

2 (10m 11s):
and they can get results in 15 minutes. But Governor run to Sanders has he won't put a Statewide mask mandate in place

4 (10m 21s):
and he also wanted schools to open by a certain date in August. And

2 (10m 28s):
so what I see is not not really the level of urgency that this pandemic

3 (10m 37s):
requires

4 (10m 38s):
Veronica is our go via reports on health care

2 (10m 47s):
for w LR n after the break allows boxes Healthcare reporter Dylan Scott why the United States is so unabashedly bad at dealing with covid-19. Support for the show today does not come from the Michelle Obama podcast. It comes from the Jordan Harbinger show which Apple happened to name one of the best podcasts of 2018.

2 (11m 31s):
So sorry take that Michelle Obama Jordan features all sorts of people you've heard of legendary creators writers people who have changed their Industries and he talks to them about how they did it so you can apply their unique Strategies and perspectives to your own lives people like Bill Nye the Science Guy. I think he has a podcast to Neal Brennan who has co-creator of the Chappelle show with Dave Chappelle. He's going to talk to you about comedy writing the guy who founded TOMS Shoes, by the way, his name is not Tom. It's Blake the Jordan Harbinger show. It's spelled har be ingr in case you're wondering it's on Apple podcast Spotify.

2 (12m 15s):
It's only wherever you listen to podcasts. The federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment a ban on abortion coverage that hurts people enrolled in Medicaid and other insurance programs enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge the polls show Biden ahead of trump with almost a 20-point lead with women the message on reproductive freedom. Is clear and Joe Biden has an opportunity to lead by removing bands on coverage and its first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions.

2 (13m 2s):
The time to end hide is now paid for by American civil liberties Union Inc rights for all

3 (13m 8s):
dot-org.

2 (13m 16s):
Don't got your Report on health care here at vaux. We just heard from Veronica about how bad things have gotten in Florida. How's the rest of the country doing all so bad? Yeah, not great. We've still got States like Arizona and California and Texas which have had a really high level of cases through most of the summer. They've been driving most of the summer wave and their cases are still. Hi, even, if they appear to maybe have peaked and are starting to Plateau or even dip a little bit. You know, it's we shouldn't take too much comfort in that news because the level of infections in those states are still really high and even more troubling is we're starting to see some new hot spots start to emerge in States like Alabama and Mississippi some of the metrics that public health experts watch to get a sense of how a state's outbreak is progressing don't look Particularly good in those other Southern States.

2 (14m 15s):
And so I think what we'll be watching here over the next few weeks. Is that even if infection starts to subside in those big for Arizona, Florida, California and Texas they're going to be some other places where the virus is starting to flare up and this is pretty much the case. The last time we had you on the show. We were talking about big new spikes in States like California, Texas, Arizona, of course, you're saying it's not moving to Alabama, Mississippi, but what else is changing? About how this pandemic is spreading throughout the country right now. I know I told you that we could expect deaths to start to pick up after a few weeks because there's just this long lag between when somebody gets infected with covid-19 when they might develop symptoms that are severe enough for them to end up in the hospital and then the time that it might take them to actually die, you know that process can take a month or longer and so yes a month ago.

2 (15m 10s):
Everybody was talking about how Cases were Rising but deaths were still falling and then pretty quickly the death toll started to increase again. And now we are averaging over a thousand deaths a day for the first time since May and because deaths are lagging indicator, even though nationally cases seem to be plateauing again. I think we can expect the death counts to remain high for a while now because, you know deaths tend to reflect the state of a pandemic, you know, four five. Six weeks ago, I guess one of the few things that country might have going for is experience. We've been battling this pandemic for six seven months now have we learned anything?

2 (15m 55s):
Are we getting any better at fighting it a testing it at tracing it or are we just doomed Dylan? We're not doomed we have learned a lot. I think there's a few different ways to think about this question. There are therapies like REM does severe like dexamethasone. Zone that have been shown to improve outcomes for people who have already developed severe symptoms that are in the hospital and might have ended up on a ventilator. We know that if we give them those medications their outcomes are better we can get them out of the hospital quicker that should mean that we hopefully will never see the level of fatalities that we saw back in the spring in New York City when nobody really knew how widespread the virus was and nobody really knew how to treat it.

2 (16m 38s):
We've come a long way in developing those standards of care and I think Good reason to be optimistic that even as deaths are rising. They're not going to rise back to the same levels that we saw during the worst of it in New York. It's just hopefully through some of these interventions that we've discovered will be able to keep death at least as low as they can be how the politics of this changed in the meanwhile. I mean President Trump recently reinstated his afternoon, press briefings. It was that an admission that this is still a very serious issue that needs the nation's Attention, I think so. I mean it for a while. It seemed like the Trump Administration strategy was to pretend that covid-19 was under control.

4 (17m 22s):
I think it's under control. I'll tell you what how a thousand Americans are dying a day or dying. That's true. And you had it is what it is, but that doesn't mean we are doing everything we can it's under control as much as you can control

2 (17m 35s):
it, you know, they wanted to simultaneously declare Victory, but also wash their hands of responsible. Bility for any new developments in the pandemic and I think that that has become untenable just because the chorus of of experts and even Republican elected officials who have said that the US response has been inadequate is just impossible to ignore just a few weeks ago Mick Mulvaney. The former Chief of Staff to President Trump said that the amount of testing being done in the United States was unacceptable, Maryland, governor, Larry Hogan who is a Republican. Rhodey brutal op-ed in the Washington Post embossing the Trump Administration for its pandemic response.

2 (18m 19s):
And the polling has been pretty clear that people don't trust what Trump says about the pandemic they don't approve of the way he's handled the coronavirus response. And so I think all of those things combined just made it unpalatable for the Trump Administration to continue pretending as if covid-19 control or it Our responsibility to try to control

4 (18m 44s):
it when you are not able to socially distance wear a mask get a mask whether you like the mask or

2 (18m 51s):
not. And so, you know, the best thing that they could think to do was to put the president back in front of the cameras again to try to present some kind of counter narrative to all the negative headlines that people were seeing about, you know this rise in cases and now the rise of deaths here in the last few weeks have the politics around this changed outside of the White House, I mean Is the country as this spreads taking it more seriously our Governors as they're having to deal with this in a more tangible way starting to take this. Seriously. Are we learning from our mistakes Stillen slowly and fitfully we do seem to be learning from our mistakes.

2 (19m 36s):
So we saw in Texas as cases and hospitalization started to increase Governor Greg Abbott, finally instituted a Statewide Mass mandate. He closed some bars and other businesses again, Mississippi Governor Tate Reeves who has also been like many republican Governors very resistant to the idea of a Statewide Mass mandate finally issued such an order so, you know

4 (20m 2s):
once Circumstances

2 (20m 4s):
forced these politicians hands, they are reacting. I know that the public health experts would tell you that pre-emptive action is a lot more

4 (20m 13s):
important. It's sort of this just

2 (20m 16s):
almost this Paradox where we do do what's necessary, but not until it's already too late. The u.s. Just seems kind of constitutionally unwilling starting right at the top in the white house with doing the work that is necessary to contain it. Thank you for your work. Appreciate your reporting as always. Thank you.

3 (20m 42s):
Dylan's got he's

2 (20m 44s):
a healthcare reporter for Vox. You can find his work at box.com. Our team is currently working on a story about dating during covid-19 rumor has it. It's kind of hard to do. At least if you're trying to be responsible about it. We want to know what dating from a distance is like especially if you're in an entirely online only relationship if you've fallen in love over FaceTime or Zoom if you're just writing letters to someone with your 10 are you waiting with bated breath until the day you can finally see your person in person email today explain it box.com or tweet at today underscore explained if you want to talk about Love in the Time of covid.

2 (21m 28s):
I'm Sean Rama's from its today explained.