2 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from bowl and Branch they do sheets and they argue that sheets are the most important thing in your house. They really give a sheet. Sorry right now. You can get $50 off any sheet set at bowl and Branch.com with the promo code explained. That's Bo LL and Branch.com promo code explained for $50 off restrictions. May apply see bowl and CH.com for details Support for the show today comes from the Kauffman Foundation which believes all people regardless of their race gender or geography should be able to share in America's Prosperity the Kauffman Foundation believes true equity and inclusion will only come from systems.

2 (52s):
We rebuild better. So all Americans can gain the access and skills. They need to succeed in a career or to start a business. It's about supporting entrepreneurs of color. The women and those in rural areas. It's giving all students the opportunity to learn through real-world experiences is encouraging policymakers to prioritize our small businesses. You can learn more about the Kauffman foundations work and get involved at emk F dot o-- r-- g-- / rebuild. Again. It's the Kauffman foundation and you can learn more at E2 M as in Mary Kay, f as in Frank Dot org slash rebuilt Okay, hot take cable news is bad for your brain.

2 (1m 56s):
They got a filled 24 hours a day and we found out the hard way what that means when you've got a president who says Reckless stuff just about 24 hours a day, but something strange has been happening in the past few days on the American cable news networks. They have been cutting away from Guy who lies we're going to talk about the significance of that on today's show, but we're going to start with a look at how they handled election week because if you were watching as our guest Eric went Bull from The Washington Post was it was impossible to miss just how much power the cable news networks have over our democracy.

4 (2m 35s):
Well, they certainly have power over our emotions. I stand by we have a key race alert right now new numbers have just come in a square. We begin with a CNN Kira. Race alert key race alert, you may be exaggerating just a little bit because of course, they're not County Boards of Elections. But since the county Boards of elections are so slow in county and certifying votes. The Network's historically has stepped in to make these calls on Races. Once they feel they have sufficient

1 (3m 8s):
data. It's official now NBC projects, Florida goes to President Donald

4 (3m 14s):
Trump. And they spend months and months and months modeling turnout and results for swing States. And that's basically why we tune into the networks that election night is to see how those swing states are going. It's really really kind of a unique part of United States media because nobody else really does it that networks have kind of a monopoly on this situation where they model everything out and they forecast and then they make

1 (3m 42s):
calls

2 (3m 48s):
as my colleague Andrew Prokop told me on Friday when Vox and it's election partner decision desk called Biden the winner calling these races is more of an art than a science

4 (4m 0s):
program is right that is more of an art than a science if it were a science, you know, everybody would be out there, you know with their programs and they be doing it on their own computer reaching their own conclusions, but you see the way it started bifurcated now the AP and Fox News has their own little partnership and Partnership is with the University of Chicago. They do all these surveys like a hundred forty thousand surveys across all the states ABC NBC CBS and CNN have something else which is called the national election poll, which hot relies heavily on exit polls and is done in coordination with Edison research and they get really a lot of the data from these Partnerships and once the data comes flowing in when one candidate no longer has a path to election.

4 (4m 47s):
They Call it for the other one. They do wait things differently. And that's where the art versus the science comes in. There's no uniform widely accepted formula for figuring out who's going to win Wisconsin, but it really is heavily quantitative. You can't just wing

2 (5m 6s):
it at the Network's ever gotten it wrong. Has anyone ever called the wrong State for the wrong

4 (5m 10s):
candidate? Well, yes, I mean back in 2000 and by stand by CNN right now is moving. our earlier Declaration of Florida back to the too close to call column the 2000 recount and the the Fiasco on Election night services the entire point of reference for where we are now that was a complete Fiasco because they called Florida that uncalled Florida and then nobody had any idea where Florida was and so they brought all the heads of the Network's up on Capitol

2 (5m 43s):
Hill since 1990 when the first joint polling and Section effort began we've been involved in nearly 900 elections around the nation the methods that we use to project winners in those races have only been wrong once before in other words. We've been right 99.8 percent of the time. Unfortunately when you make a mistake as glaring is calling Al Gore the winner in Florida, the number of times you've been right seems less

4 (6m 11s):
relevant. Another big failure of course was the 2016 exit polling and the regular election. Only which made people feel less comfortable in their assumptions and in their data and in and the degree to which they understood the electorate now, we had a huge polling problem this year is well where many of the Swing states were way off, you know beyond the margin of error. So, I mean there have been a lot of failures. So I think that over time these Network producers have become more humble about the ability of these hurts to sort of figure out what the country is

2 (6m 50s):
thinking the one CNN did make the call on Saturday morning. It seemed like the whole world fell in line almost within what 20 minutes it was, right? MSNBC

4 (7m 0s):
Biden is being called Fox News The Fox News decision desk can now project that former Vice President. Joe Biden will win Pennsylvania and Nevada New York Times honking in the streets Champagne sold out in Washington, DC. It was Eerie to meet wasn't naughty ra to you. I mean, they're like, oh, well, we all reach the same conclusion at exactly the same time. I mean, that's just bullshit, right? Yeah. I mean you would have to suppose that they all shared the model, right? They all shared the model and that they all reach the same conclusion at the same time to me. It was like, oh man.

4 (7m 40s):
This is not a good look, right? Like if this were really independent you would have seen them like calling it on. Day 11 and then Madam Madam Madam, maybe NBC would receive conclusion 7 p.m. That evening or something and one or two of them would still be stragglers out there right now, but no it's all over in 20 minutes that's amazed truck me is really like, oh man, you know, this really is a mirage. This is the third Mirage of the there was the red Raj the Blue Horizon then the network Mirage and it

2 (8m 13s):
might not be helping matters as the outgoing guy is doing everything he he can to make Americans doubt the veracity of these election calls.

4 (8m 22s):
I think you're onto something here. This is really an idiosyncratic part of the way. We run our country that the networks are sitting there with this process that everybody hangs on and we don't have really an analog to it and other parts of our Civic life, you know, we're we're so much trust and confidence is being placed in the ability of these networks to figure out before the county. Certify their vote what's going to happen? And I think that over the past two decades since 2000 the networks have come to grips with just how important it is and just how much power it is vested in them.

4 (9m 3s):
And so I think that's why it took until Saturday at 1124 whenever it was for them to take this

1 (9m 9s):
step

2 (9m 13s):
every time. We got a new vote. It just

4 (9m 15s):
reaffirmed that that was the pattern. And the idea that Trump is going to overturn this with provisional ballots that are you know, we can already see have quite a few Democrats in them that traditionally are extremely Democratic the idea that Donald Trump is suddenly going to win 96% of that Vote or something like that. You know, it's just the impossibility. I think just finally reached reach the critical threshold. I would like to ask all the assembled network has right now. Why is it that you all clustered around 10 or 15 minutes to make one of the most important calls, you know in modern American history and you all say that you have different proprietary approaches to calling the election. It just on some level doesn't make a lot of sense.

2 (10m 2s):
after the break Fox and Friends Minis Support for the show today. Once again comes from bowl and Branch they make those good good sheets. They got the organic cotton sheets that are made with the best of the best cotton rain-fed pesticide-free. They even carry the highest Organic certification. So if you're sick of all that sheet out there, it's time to try bowling branch. And guess what? To the people at bowl and Branch three former presidents are known to be happy bowl and Branch customers, even the clintons even the bushes and unity is what we need right now, you know both sides of the aisle.

2 (10m 53s):
So what you can do right now is go to bowl and branch.com and you'll get $50 off any sheet set with the promo code explain. That is Bo LL bowl and Branch.com branches. BR a NCH if you missed that course in college promo code explained for $50 off bowling Branch.com promo code explained restrictions May apply the bowl and Branch.com for

1 (11m 20s):
details This is Advertiser content.

4 (11m 27s):
We now have 2.3 million people incarcerated in America less than seven percent of them are incarcerated for violent

1 (11m 39s):
crime. That's attorney Jeffrey Robinson director of the ACLU trone Center for justice and equality his work inspired the making of who we are a podcast by Ben & Jerry's and produced by Vox creative who we are a Chronicle of racism in Car is hosted by Peabody award-winning journalist Carvel Wallace.

4 (11m 58s):
Surely you knew this was a racist country. What does that mean for us today?

1 (12m 3s):
The prison population in the United States has increased seven hundred percent since 1970. Black Americans make up almost 40% of it.

4 (12m 12s):
We didn't get here by accident. I didn't know these things because I hadn't been taught them. And then the question is why wasn't I taught them because this information it may be hidden, but it's hiding in plain

1 (12m 28s):
sight who we are takes historic look at the disease of racism in America and traces it back to its tipping points. This includes the Tipping Point. We're at today. I think Americans are

4 (12m 38s):
watching and thinking and looking at this issue in ways, they never have before and that's why I say, this is our last Still the best chance because if we don't get it right this time where America is headed is someplace. I don't think anybody wants to go.

1 (12m 56s):
How do we make our last best chance count Listen to Who We Are a podcast by Ben & Jerry's and produced by box creative now streaming wherever you get your podcasts. But what is this happening here? Why is Arizona blue? Did we just call it? Did we make a call in Arizona Arizona 11 electoral vote?

4 (13m 26s):
Okay time out. This is a big development. Yeah. The Fox News decision desk is calling Arizona for Joe Biden

2 (13m 32s):
Eric. Let's talk about the moment Fox News emphasis on news not those opinion dudes who dominate prime time but let's talk about the moment that Fox News kind of broke up with Donald Trump. It starts with they're Arizona for Joe Biden, right?

4 (13m 47s):
Yes, that was 1120 on Tuesday night the fox called Arizona and basically threw a big stink bomb in in all of the places where Trump and his buddies were pretty much celebrating high-fiving.

2 (14m 1s):
How did President Trump react to the Fox News call

4 (14m 5s):
Trump reactive viciously as did his inner circle. They all pounded Fox News to retract the call. And this is what you're getting at John. This is a perfect example. Of what you're getting why on Earth think about this? Why on Earth really would they care? What the hell Fox News says about Arizona. Ultimately Arizona is going to decide the vote right? Unless you believe that somehow Fox News is in The Counting Room and you know making decisions of its own or that the County Board of Elections has moved its offices to Fox News on Avenue of the Americas in New York City then It's no sense, but they all pressured Fox to retract this.

4 (14m 49s):
It makes her one of the most dramatic moments of the night as Fox decision desk

1 (14m 53s):
director aren't in Michigan came under Fire.

4 (14m 56s):
We're getting a lot of incoming here and we need you to answer some questions. I'm sorry. The president is not going to be able to take over and win enough votes to eliminate that seven-point lead shows that PR is a big

2 (15m 11s):
part of this and the other part of

4 (15m 13s):
it is the degree of own. Ownership that the Trump people feel over Fox News. I mean after all if Hannity is basically doing your propaganda for four or five years you start to feel as though you own him, right? I mean really and so that's what in my view this nasty reaction really showed is that they feel they own Fox

2 (15m 34s):
News and that was just the beginning of the fissure between the outgoing guy and the news people over at Fox.

4 (15m 40s):
I mean, there's talk of this great Fisher, but Trump is hated certain parts of Fox News 4 You know ever since Megyn Kelly. I thought I asked him about his sexism back in August 2015. Yeah, so, you know, he has been invading against, you know, the parts of Fox News that have integrity for five years and that includes the polling unit. Now the decision desk and you know Chef Smith and all these

2 (16m 4s):
people who decide that when they get up

4 (16m 6s):
in the morning, they're going to try their best to tell the truth and Trump can't

2 (16m 10s):
abide it so Trump has been attacking these people for a really

4 (16m 14s):
long time. I'm and this is merely a continuation of that. I would hate to sit here and assign more significance to this moment than any other it's just kind of

2 (16m 24s):
interesting and he'll always have Hannity and Tucker but there is significance here because these networks including Fox have finally started to cut away from the president when he's spreading BS that mean this starts with his speech Thursday

4 (16m 38s):
night. The speech was a Thursday night and it occurred during the you know the evening news. So they dipped into it and then they saw after about 5 to 7 Minutes how he was lying so much which was entirely predictable and all three of the Network's bailed one after 5 minutes the other two after like seven minutes, but each, you know to see the way they cut away in one instance Trump was saying I want Georgia by a lot a lot like was in Georgia. I won by a lot a lot and I think That was one CBS. All right, we're out of here with

1 (17m 17s):
that. We're the president of the United States addressing the American people for the first time Nancy Cordes is with us. There were a couple of statements that the president made to have a fact check. Yes on a number of fronts Nora.

4 (17m 30s):
First of all, they had the basically clean up for the guy, you know over the next five to seven minutes and and it really is a big job, you know, when you let Trump loose on your Airwaves he creates so many messes, you know. It's like you're it's like you're eight-year-old making cookies, you know, and so the last time you let him run loose on the airwaves the easier time you have making a more accurate broadcast and you know, my argument is that this guy forfeited his privilege of being live on the Airways many many years

2 (18m 4s):
ago, you know, and it's funny you say that because the onion had a headline after that cut away from MSNBC that said something like major networks cut away from Donald Trump for years. Ago when he starts lying, you know, they've been doing it for four years. They've been letting him lies CNN seems especially on the hook on that front. I mean, why did they let it go on for so long? He's been lying the whole time. There are a couple reasons in my view one is it's simply much more difficult to tape a presidential

4 (18m 37s):
dress fact, check it then produce a package that you present to your audience later. That's a lot of work. Okay, it's much easier to just let the guy go to see your panel have them watch and listen and then just talk about it later. Right that is so much easier. So I'm not in favor of letting Trump speak live, but that's not to say that I favor suppressing the news in other words. I don't want news outlets to suppress the fact that this happened. I just think there's a responsible way to report on sir

2 (19m 14s):
and the other Consideration is ratings

4 (19m 17s):
when he does this stuff. He's a substitute for actual news programming and it makes money. It makes money. You're absolutely right. You're a hundred percent, right? It makes money and in the realm of cable news. There is only one metric just audience that really is how they keep score and so it's really important to understanding why they allow Trump for so long to go live unfiltered.

2 (19m 42s):
And now if you want to be cynical you can look at the Network's willing. To cut away from Donald Trump or his White House Press Secretary is Fox News did this

4 (19m 49s):
week. We want every legal vote

1 (19m 52s):
to be counted and we want every

4 (19m 54s):
illegal vote. Well, I just think we have to be very clear that she's charging the other side as welcoming fraud and welcoming illegal voting unless he has more details to back that up. I can't in good countenance continue showing you this. I

2 (20m 6s):
want to make sure that as an acknowledgement that this era is coming to an end. We have president-elect Joe Biden we need to Figure out a way to move on from Donald Trump. There's less on the line if we cut away from him. Does that mean that nothing was actually learned here that that they waited until he no longer had a political future to finally start cutting away from him. I

4 (20m 28s):
think it is kind of pathetic is what you're getting as yeah, you know, we make the call that he's no longer going to be president. And then we decide that we're going to start getting aggressive on his falsehoods on live TV. I think that's not a great sequence if you're trying to run a network that's Vested with integrity and responsibility but I think on some level it is an admission that they've screwed this up for a really long time, but I will say to that I wouldn't want to be in the position of being the network head and having to deal with a president who not only lies but who also gets on TV all the time. It is not a simple and easy situation, but I do think at some level at some point like after a two months of this there really is no excuse for not taking really strong corrective

2 (21m 19s):
action. And now we're looking at a Biden presidency which promises to be a lot more conventional and maybe a lot more, you know, blissfully boring than its predecessor. What's that going to do to TV news?

4 (21m 32s):
I would be shocked if the ratings don't go through the floor. I think CNN. I think MSNBC are going to be gasping for air. I really do. I think CNN is finally going to have to start using some of its corresponding. And it has all like 3,000 news professionals and CNN. You know, why don't we get on the daytime rotation stories about climate change stories about racial Justice story's about, you know stuff that really matter instead of just hanging out the White House all day. So I think actually it may be a nice refreshing break from you know, one side one theme covers the whole time.

2 (22m 8s):
In fact, it's not lost on President Trump right for all is falsehoods and and disinformation. He's always Said the Network's loved me. I'm great for the Network's. I make them a ton of money

4 (22m 19s):
on a percent hundred percent. He's incredibly conscious of his ability to boost ratings. In fact, I think that's been the primary motivator of his entire

2 (22m 28s):
presidency.

4 (22m 32s):
That's what he really cares about. And that's why I think that one night when they have the dueling town halls and Biden's Town Hall beat him in the ratings was so incredibly devastating for him. So yeah, it's it'll be

1 (22m 47s):
different.

2 (22m 52s):
Eric wimple is a media critic at the Washington Post. I'm Sean Rama's firm. Its today

1 (22m 57s):
explained.