0 (1s):
The funny thing happens in the new Drake video for a song sticky,

1 (4s):
Sticky. Again,

0 (6s):
After watching the Canadian rapper wrap up a show, we see him stunting next to luxury vehicles, and fording a private jet next he's helming a sailboat, just regular rapper stuff, but right, as he says,

1 (18s):
Free baseline amount of cage.

0 (20s):
You see you free YSL written in big neon, green slime tripping on your screen. It's kind of jarring and doesn't really gel with anything else happening in the song for the video. But the most popular rapper in the world is taking a beat to plea for the release of one of the most popular rappers in the world.

1 (40s):
So my son,

0 (45s):
The big slime is an alias for young thug. He and gunna another wildly popular rapper are behind bars, awaiting trial, and their bars might be used against them. That's coming up on today, explained

Citi (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action that together cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G

3 (1m 43s):
Hey, just a heads up. Today's show has lots of strong language

0 (1m 52s):
We want them to know what's going on with young thug and gunner. Why two of the most popular rappers in America are behind bars and why their bars might be used against them in court. So we reached out to Juul Wicker. She's the editor at large for capital B in Atlanta.

4 (2m 7s):
I'm based in Atlanta, Georgia, born and raised here. And I've worked here for at least five, six years.

0 (2m 12s):
She's going to give you a little primmer on young thug and gunna in case you're not familiar with their work.

4 (2m 17s):
So young thug is an Atlanta rapper. He's been around for about a decade. Now, first kind of as a local radio star, and then breaking out on the national scene with songs like stoner. You know, he's really made a name for himself, not just as an artist who kind of utilizes his voice and melodies in some really unique ways, right?

1 (2m 39s):
I want you out of my life. I want you back here at night. I'm trying to cut your no knife. Turn off this ed.

4 (2m 52s):
It's also pretty prolific. So for example, in 2020 alone, he racked up 14 hits on the billboard, hot 100 and that's despite not releasing a solo project that year He's also notably the founder of a very successful music label called young stoner life or YSL. And one of the biggest acts on that label is a rapper named gunna does rap style is certainly a not to get the guy, but he's also really been able to make a name for himself as a solo artist with songs like drip too hard, which features little baby And it's also worth noting that both men are kind of really popular on the fashion scene as well.

0 (3m 47s):
Doug, Doug has a really distinct style, right?

4 (3m 49s):
Yeah. Young Doug has a really distinct style. I mean, I think, you know, one of the album artworks of his that went viral, he was wearing a dress, which you know, was really a controversial, big thing at the time

0 (3m 60s):
Way before Brad Pitt wore a dress.

4 (4m 2s):
Oh yeah. Way before a Brad Pitt and then gunna, I mean, big enough that I profiled him for a GQ earlier this year in a part of the peg for the profile was like his closet, or look inside his closet at what he's wearing and kind of the fashion sense that he has.

0 (4m 16s):
Wasn't gonna look a musical guest on SNL at some point,

6 (4m 18s):
Ladies and gentlemen.

4 (4m 22s):
Oh yeah. He had a number one album this year. You know, we talk about young thug and I think it is true that he's one of the biggest rappers in the world, but gunna certainly is more than his protege, you know? And I profiled him earlier this year. It was fresh off the heels of him receiving a number one album. He came out with a viral hit pushing PE that a bunch of brands and artists kind of jumped on that train. He's really, really popular.

1 (4m 47s):
<inaudible> push a peak. <inaudible> she's not a lesbian for P she turned peers, push P P capital P PR writing prisoner camp president push.

0 (5m 12s):
So what is going on with these two guys right now? Why aren't we talking about them?

4 (5m 15s):
You know, so on May 9th, young thug was arrested at his home in Atlanta and he was booked into the Fulton county jail and charged with conspiracy to violate the Rico act,

7 (5m 25s):
The rapper and 28 other defendants charged in a 56 count indictment, alleged and street gang activity, including robbery and murder.

4 (5m 34s):
And then two days later gunna also surrendered and turned himself into authorities for the same thing. He's also facing Rico charges.

0 (5m 41s):
Okay. And people who watch like mob movies or the Soprano's have probably heard of Rico charges

8 (5m 47s):
Since you are at the helm, it all gets back to putting up bigger blinds, really limiting your exposure to potential Rico Bobos

9 (5m 55s):
On a way to run a family. These days is bunker style. You peer out to the slit mums

0 (6m 1s):
For those people who don't, what are Rico charges.

4 (6m 4s):
So they're being charged on the state level, but Rico itself is the racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations act.

10 (6m 11s):
It started out as a federal law, but now almost all states, including Georgia have adopted similar state Rico law

4 (6m 19s):
And is lies of course, based on the federal act, which has been used to target mafia families like the Gambinos.

10 (6m 26s):
This is on organized crime and only requires the state to prove that some group of people are committing a pattern of crimes,

0 (6m 33s):
Young thug, and gunna in the mafia.

4 (6m 37s):
So it's being alleged that they're a part of an organized game. That's kind of the basis of these charges

11 (6m 44s):
In this particular case, because he had this record label. They're alleging that through the record label, he was able to create this criminal enterprise to further this criminal activity in violation of the Rico act.

4 (6m 56s):
So prosecutors are really alleging that they are a part of a gang that has committed a number of crimes throughout Atlanta, right?

12 (7m 3s):
They are committing conservatively 75 to 80% of all of the violent crime that we are seeing within our community.

4 (7m 12s):
This is kind of a hybrid gang made up of bloods and Crips and together they've committed crimes that are in furtherance of this gang. That's what they're alleging

12 (7m 21s):
As large as this indictment is. I told my team that let's not be sexy. Now let's not overreach. Let's be conservative in our approach, which is always the approach that I take. And in taking that approach, 28 defendants were indicted and they were indicted for the crimes that I believe were appropriate for this Rico indictment. Okay.

4 (7m 39s):
I mean, it's worth noting that prosecutors are alleging that gun and young thug, aren't just a member of this gang, but that they're the leaders of it. But there were other people named in this indictment, a rapper named YSL duke, a rapper named yak, Gotti, and a rapper named un-fuck. Again, all a part of this really large indictment that came down in may.

0 (7m 58s):
Okay. What is this YSL gang being accused of doing exactly

4 (8m 4s):
It's worth noting that one, there's a debate over what YSL is. Prosecutors say, YSL stands for young Slan life, young thug and people in the rap industry say it stands for young stoner life. Prosecutors of course, alleged that young slime life predates and existed long before the record label itself. But they're saying that the people in the gang, including young thug and gunna have committed a number of crimes and that the allegations in this indictment really range from wearing a chain in a music video and kind of repping YSL, which they of course argue is a record label to say, purchasing a car that is then used in the commission of a murder.

4 (8m 46s):
And in some of these charges are still being brought down. So say young thug for instance, was just charged with six more things in relation to his arrest. Earlier this month

13 (8m 57s):
Include participation in criminal street, gang activity, possession of marijuana with intent to distribute possession of coding with intent to distribute possession of cocaine, possession of a firearm during the commission of a crime and possession of a machine gun. So

4 (9m 13s):
This is in addition to the original indictment that we saw in may, right? That's important because we're still seeing charges being added to, to kind of what prosecutors are alleging here. And they're still in jail. They've been in jail this entire time, since may, we've had a couple bond hearings so far, the judge, every time is denied bond kind of citing fear of witness intimidation gunna turned to 29. You know, since he's been in jail and he released a letter that kind of proclaimed his innocence and really leaned in heavy on what we think defense attorneys are going to use kind of this idea that black art in lyrics are being used unfairly to criminalize these men

0 (9m 54s):
Any more about that. Is that like a, a big part of this case here that they're going to be using young thug and gun his lyrics?

4 (10m 2s):
Yeah. I mean, they, it was used several times in the indictment and they also has come up several times in some of the bond hearings. You know, several songs like take it to trials.

1 (10m 12s):
<inaudible> I'm on the feed is like, I don't know. <inaudible> I got his bag. He just killed it, man, on front of his mama, <inaudible>

4 (10m 47s):
One of the lyrics from anybody that young thug reps is. I never killed anybody, but I got something to do with that body. And prosecutors have brought up several times in, in hearings that we've had so far that they, again, alleged that young thug is the leader of YSL, the criminal street gang. They don't think that he used necessarily gone out and murdered someone himself, but that he is the one that of kind of orchestrating and giving permission for these crimes to be committed. So they're specifically leaning into this lyric heart because they're saying it's proof that what they're alleging is true.

1 (11m 19s):
I never killed anybody, but I got something to do with that body. I got this crease on my bag, my carry yet like a moving the body who I told him to shoot a hundred around. Like he trying to move into battle

0 (11m 31s):
Question of whether or not rap lyrics should be admissible in courts. And a minute on today's explain me

Citi (11m 46s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals. And to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology that money will help provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the U S but that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G.

15 (12m 49s):
What did dinosaurs sound like? Here's Jurassic parks tape. That role was mostly made up of mammal sounds, but dinosaurs were a lot closer to huge birds. And instead of a roar, they might've had more of a punk.

3 (13m 8s):
It's a honk, but it's like a tuba honk.

15 (13m 10s):
The biggest deepest weirdest honk you can imagine

3 (13m 14s):
Get to tubas and having them play two different notes, and then they could rumble. And while your body is still shaking from the rumble, they could blast you with two very low notes. You could get real interesting

15 (13m 39s):
This weekend. Unexplainable, is it possible to figure out what dinosaurs actually sounded like? Faintest are giving it their best shot, new episodes, every Wednesday, follow unexplainable, wherever you listen.

16 (13m 54s):
You know, rap is free. Speech rap is poetry. It's literature, it's drama, it's storytelling. And this should not be criminalized

0 (14m 6s):
Today explained we're back. And we want to talk about whether rap lyrics should even be admissible in court. And if so, in what context we reached out to an academic, who's also a lawyer to find out.

17 (14m 16s):
And my name is Timothy Welbeck. I am the director for the antiracism center at temple university muscle in Africa, ecology professor there and civil rights attorney in Philadelphia,

0 (14m 27s):
Professor Timothy Welbeck also happens to be a bit of a rapper.

17 (14m 31s):
I do rap.

18 (14m 34s):
They called my mother's father carpenter and say, he could build a house with tossing conduit with tennis head. He had no usage for a broker, just a song. A ledger had been mailed an architect just started to a wreck. Now it could be.

0 (14m 46s):
So it won't surprise you that he's not crazy about this idea of rappers with their art

17 (14m 54s):
As a whole. I generally discouraged the practice. I particularly take issue with it because at its core rap lyrics are a form of artistic expression and it's a medium in which people not only communicate their lived experience, but also delve deeply into their imagination as well. And so we want to give them Liberty to do that. And so then to have people create this genuine form of art and then to potentially suffer some type of punishment as a result of it is what I find to be troubling, particularly because of the racial dynamics to it, to

0 (15m 30s):
This has been a debate that's been going on for decades. Tell me about that history. Where does it start?

17 (15m 35s):
So it starts back in the nineties. It actually even begins before that. So if you'll remember circa the late eighties, we began to see a rise of a different level of content that was beginning to enter into the popular space. Beginning with school EDIS, PSK Iced tea, six in the morning,

1 (16m 4s):
Six in the morning, police at my door, fresh Sydney this week across the bathroom, out my back to get a chance to grandma.

17 (16m 16s):
Then NWA is catalog It began to create a shift and not only the type of music that was coming out, but how it was speaking to certain social conditions. And very quickly, people began to turn that gangster rap. And if you may remember tipper gore among others began having a campaign around trying to censor gangsta, rap, and painted as something that was untenable for public consumption,

20 (16m 49s):
Great thrill killing sadomasochism. There's a song that goes not a woman, but a whore. I can taste the hate. Well, now I'm killing you. Watch your face turning blue un-quote by a group that has sold 2 million copies of that particular album.

17 (17m 4s):
And so as that debate continue raging into the early nineties. You began to see prosecutors using rap lyrics as a form of evidence against people in trial. She also had prosecutors literally saying these rap lyrics are almost like party confessions.

0 (17m 21s):
What is maybe one of the more prominent cases that's come forward that used an artist's lyrics against the artists in a trial

17 (17m 30s):
Draco, the ruler, and take K R I think two cases that really caught people's attention, particularly with Draco the ruler,

21 (17m 40s):
The prosecutor is alleged. The Caldwell was a part of a botched plot to kill a rival at a party. He attended in December, 2016, allegedly in the midst of a shootout, he and his gang had accidentally 24 year old Davey on Gregory,

17 (17m 51s):
But not withstanding his lyrics were used in trial as a means in which to establish a motive and saying that the person who was killed was killed in part, because they had a long-standing beef with him. And this beef that he had was something that he articulated in his music,

22 (18m 8s):
Everything I stayed as faxed. I'm not these other street niggas, but shocker Bradley rap. I'm riding around town with a Tommy gun and a Jack. And you can disregard the yelling. RJ tied up in the back, messed up.

17 (18m 18s):
So as a consequence of him articulating this to the music, people were trying to use that in trial.

0 (18m 23s):
How successful have prosecutors been using this approach to do the lyrics, sort of tip the scales in their favor? Are they winning cases?

17 (18m 33s):
So you have to even have the core agree that these lyrics can be introduced as evidence. And so many defense attorneys have argued that lyrics are air material. They're irrelevant, it's their prejudicial, things like that. And defense attorneys. And most of these cases that I've just mentioned have lost those motions, trying to suppress that type of evidence to try to keep it out of trial. And now that they used in trial, how influential are they for the jury? And it seems as though, as some of these cases, they are having an impact on how the jury is weighing the evidence. And if nothing else, when used in court, the thing that many people are arguing about is how they're painting a narrative about some of these rappers and the genre of rap as a whole rappers themselves as individuals.

17 (19m 25s):
And then particularly those where standing trial is getting people to believe that they're predisposed to committing certain criminal acts. Even if these are entirely fictitious accounts or foreign forms of artistic expression in the, like,

0 (19m 40s):
Have there been cases where the art wasn't fictitious, I think about, you know, where, where is the line? If, if a rapper says, you know, I killed Mike on 3 54 state street and that they go to 3 54 state street and they find bike there. Is that something that, that can be further investigated? Or should there be this, you know, golden rule that, well, that was art man. You can't be using the art in court. You know,

17 (20m 8s):
That's where a lot of the debate hinges and what most, what most people will say is that if you make a specific claim in lyrics, that point to a specific crime, that only the person who committed the crime could have known you should reasonably expect that your lyrics will be used against you. As MF doom said, you'd be a rap snitches telling all your business, going into court, beyond star witness.

18 (20m 32s):
Did you see the perpetrator? Yeah, I'm right here. Fuck around and get the whole label set up for you. <inaudible> sit in the court and be their own star witness. Did you see the perpetrator right here? Fuck up, man. I'll get the whole label set up

17 (20m 47s):
You so like, and since it's permissible and it makes sense, but what most people are decrying as the broader sense in which rap lyrics are used to paint a narrative about these young black men and women who have a predisposition to commit criminal offenses, they're inclined to be inherently violent. And as a consequence, you can use their lyrics almost to a sole degree as a form of evidence. That's what people have an issue with. So when you look at criminal proceedings, what we have to weigh is that the core, if they're successful are going to deprive you of your life, your Liberty or your property. And so in order to do that, they have to meet a burden of proof.

17 (21m 28s):
They have to establish that you committed a crime beyond a reasonable doubt, and to only base that on rap lyrics and sufficient.

0 (21m 37s):
And where do you think we're heading with young thug and it two of the biggest rappers in the United States and thus the world.

17 (21m 46s):
I think it's different with, with, with each of them. So on its face, the initial indictment I thought was lazy in some of this presumptions and the indictment that originally was made public.

23 (21m 58s):
The thing here, they may have gone a step too far because they're charging these individuals with criminal activity crimes under Georgia law, which really may be limited to just things they've said, either on social media or in song lyrics. And ultimately I think that's going to be a problem.

17 (22m 17s):
I think what has shifted, I guess, our analysis and the time there, our sense is that we have learned that there are people who are willing to testify against young thug. And there's other evidence that they believe the prosecution believes that they have, that they can use against him. I think that's what shifts the scales against the thug and regrettably. He is facing potentially some serious time in prison based on if again, the prosecution can prove that beyond a reasonable doubt. But what I'm saying is that it appears as though the prosecution at the very least with the drug has more evidence against him than justice lyrics. And so as a consequence, that's something that should be troubling to him.

17 (23m 0s):
So we'll see how it goes

0 (23m 2s):
For people who are struggling to wrap their heads around, why someone like young thug would be wrapped up and potentially, you know, Rico cases and, and gang violence. What what's going on there. Is there something about where he's from that, that doesn't allow him to escape?

17 (23m 22s):
I'll say a couple of things to the young thug in particular, and many rappers more broadly come from some of the most marginalized communities and all of the country. They're in some of the most least desirable parts of cities that have been laid to waste by urban neglect and other discriminatory policies. And so it makes sense then that hip hop a culture emerged from the inner city in the U S it's going to be predominated by people who come from these types of circumstances. And at times document their lived experience and their music, even if they'd take creative license to put it succinctly, when you got someone like the coming from the trap and your living condition, it looks like a trap.

17 (24m 7s):
It's going to be difficult for you to make it out outside of a box or in a cage. And young thug did the miraculous and did that. And he was trying to bring a lot of his people with him. And some of those people did not have the same access that some of his colleagues networks may have had access to. And that's not necessarily something we should punish them for. And so with that, I hope that the continues to get a fair trial. I hope his legal counsel, mounts of vigorous defense for him. And we'll see what happens from there.

1 (24m 40s):
I got to tell you that you

0 (24m 45s):
The professor Timothy Welbeck, he's the director for the antiracism center at temple university. He's a civil rights attorney in Philadelphia, and he's a rapper wherever you listen. He goes by Timothy Welbeck. I go by Sean. Rama's from early in the show you heard from Juul Wicker from capital B. Our producer goes by Heidi Milwaukee. Our fact checker is Laura Bullard and the theme Shapiro mixed and mastered this episode of today explained,

1 (25m 11s):
I always knew what I be great. Cause my coach told me I was slow, but I was running at a fast pace. They're trying to divide us and conquer the world with, they got a couple of the guys and all of the girls with, but I'm my mastermind. I see right through it. I see that you got to come a dime and the rest of her. Then they said you pulled black right to your face. They say, well, you live in there. We'll be able to own that place. My father said, you change it all the time by the way, your life. So he leased on Charles <inaudible>. If you want it, you can go get it over earlier then anymore.

1 (25m 53s):
If you want it. <inaudible> top of the top.