1 (4s):
About a week before Russia invaded Ukraine. It detained w NBA superstar, Brittney Griner

2 (10s):
Authorities say Greiner was taken into custody at the Moscow airport in February. Customs agents allegedly found vapes with liquid cannabis or hash oil in her carry on, which is a legal substance in Russia.

1 (23s):
But we didn't talk about it on today. Explain because the vibes seem to be, don't make a big deal about this. Brittany's families try and resolve it behind the scenes. We don't want some campaign, but now

3 (34s):
State department spokesperson saying in a statement they have now determined that the Russian Federation has wrongfully detained grinder and that a special presidential Envoy for hostage affairs will lead the inner agency team for securing her release grinder has

1 (48s):
The United States is turning up the heat to get Brittany Griner back. Her story finally is ahead on today. Explained

4 (60s):
Dakota is a show, but how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong hosted by me, Neil Patel editor in chief of the verge. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse. Past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts, new episodes come out every Tuesday.

1 (1m 41s):
So they explained I'm Sean Rama's from, and this is TJ Quinn. I'm

5 (1m 45s):
An investigative reporter for ESPN,

1 (1m 47s):
But enough about TJ. Let's talk about Brittany.

5 (1m 50s):
The grinder is one of the greatest players in the history of her game.

6 (1m 56s):
<inaudible> trying to help them get back into this trailing by five Brittney Griner spinning in the lane, put it up in a chap that one, and the foul will deuce and the damage,

5 (2m 5s):
Not just her skill and her accomplishments, but her size, her presence

6 (2m 11s):
As Greiner comes up with this steel and maybe a little Showtime, But to add,

5 (2m 17s):
She is like nobody who has ever played. And she has dominated every level she's ever been. She's also become kind of a cultural icon as well for her sexuality, for her struggles, with mental health issues, she's become someone who really is more than an athlete. So the people who follow her, she's talked about the struggles she had growing up about standing out the way she did

7 (2m 44s):
Always bigger, deeper voice, flat chest, big feet. And I remember this, I forgot the girl's name, but she came up to me and she was with her friends. She was like, look, she's not a girl. And she like, literally like grabbed my chest. And my pad like patted me like that and was like, look, I was so embarrassed.

5 (3m 3s):
I mean, one thing about her is there's, there's never been a room that she's walked into where she was not the absolute center of attention. She's six foot nine. So her whole life has been people staring at her sort of picking her apart. And she has talked about the anger and frustration that built up and what a release basketball became for. She was the best high school player in the country. She got signed with Baylor won a national title. They're all American, the number one overall draft pick and the w NBA when she went professional perennial all-star I mean, what, what stands out is her size. And she plays a sort of physical dominant game, both defensively and offensively that that stand out.

5 (3m 45s):
But she also, she dunks in games, which is not common in the w NBA,

8 (3m 50s):
Right? Or just roll perfectly slam dunk, Brittany,

5 (3m 54s):
You know, you watch her and it's just a skill in her game. That's that's beyond just the sheer size she has.

1 (4m 4s):
So it's fair to say that she's one of the best players in the WNBL.

5 (4m 8s):
One of the, the best players in basketball history,

1 (4m 12s):
What is one of the best players in basketball history doing in Russia,

5 (4m 17s):
The women who play in the w NBA, which is the highest level of basketball played in that sport can only make a few hundred thousand dollars at the most. There's a hard salary cap for what they can make. There are limited marketing opportunities for women who play professional basketball, but in Russia, like as in a number of countries in Europe, in the middle east, she's able to make more than million dollars playing for one of the teams there that's owned by oligarchs. So there's this long history of w NBA players making something that'd be a good salary for most people, but really low for someone of their skill, going to Russia, Turkey, where they make much higher salaries.

5 (5m 3s):
And so she has been spending her off season making three, four, sometimes five times the salary she could make in the U S by playing in Russia.

9 (5m 13s):
I didn't become aware of it until like my junior, senior year in college. And I started to realize that the WBA doesn't make as much money as people assume why as much as we assume God didn't know coming in as a rookie, he was only gonna make $40,000.

5 (5m 27s):
By the way, it's not just the money. It's the way they were treated over there. I mean, they get the full treatment, they get private jets, every need is attended to you feel less like an employee and more like a star, and you could see why that would be attractive.

1 (5m 41s):
So it sounds like there hasn't been any questions about safety concerns.

5 (5m 44s):
I don't recall anybody really raising safety concerns. And I think one reason is when you are going over there under the protection of an oligarch, it is the equivalent of walking into a neighborhood. When the local crime boss says, you know, so-and-so is okay, no, one's going to touch you. And that really is how the oligarchs system works in Russia. Hmm.

1 (6m 4s):
So let's talk about how Brittney Griner ends up being detained in Russia. Where does that story start?

5 (6m 11s):
That starts February 17th. When she flew over there is she has many times and landed at the airport outside of Moscow. You're watching the video that customs officials released, and she's just going through the baggage check like normal. And then she gets pulled out of the line. What happens after that is in dispute.

2 (6m 31s):
Authorities say Greiner was taken into custody at the Moscow airport in February, customs agents allegedly found vapes with liquid cannabis or hash oil in her carry on, which is illegal substance in Russia.

5 (6m 44s):
She actually has not said one way or the other nor have a representatives. And from that time on, she was in custody, but there was no attention to it in this country. Russia didn't announce it. They kept it very low profiling. Her representatives were almost immediately in contact with the us state department. And the advice that the state department gave them was look, you need to keep a low profile right now. There are two directions. This can go, Russia has nominally, at least a criminal justice system. It is I think, quite demonstrably, corrupt and subject to the rule of one man, Vladimir Putin and his government.

5 (7m 27s):
But there is one and it does operate. And until they have some idea of how she's being treated, it's better for you to keep a low profile because the other path is if she becomes too valuable, if there's a ton of attention to her, well, then she's a potential asset to Putin and his government for something that they want to trade for. And that was not the road you wanted to be on. They follow the state department's advice and kept a very low profile until about three weeks later in early March, a Russian customs officials did announce it in, in this country. We heard about it. I think first, the New York times that she had been detained.

5 (8m 8s):
And then there was this media response over here. Wait a second. How can one of the world's best athletes have been in detention for more than two weeks, and nobody knew about it. That was intentional. They really wanted to keep a low profile. She's got lawyers over there trying to see, can we work this out through the criminal justice system? And then when you had a number of members of Congress and prominent athletes, you know, raising the issue of, if this were a male athlete, if this was, you know, LeBron James or somebody, people would be going out of their minds, but in this one case, the people who support Brittney Griner, lament the inequities in women's sports in this country, but here's where it works to their advantage because they felt like, okay, let's just, let's keep quiet as long as we can see if we can work this out.

5 (8m 53s):
Because as she becomes essentially a hostage to Putin, then you're in a whole new world.

1 (8m 58s):
As I recall, because this was happening so close to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, it felt like Russia maybe was trying to get a little leverage on the United States, potentially by detaining this star athlete for having hashish oil honor,

5 (9m 14s):
It's entirely possible. And people who follow Russia immediately thought of the fact that there is a well-established history of Russian law enforcement planting drugs on people in order to arrest them. This is what they do. And even though the war hadn't started, the invasion hadn't started yet in February 17th, they knew it was coming. So for those inclined to think this was a set up the pieces were there. There's Russia's history of doing that. The fact that she's high profile easily identifiable the fact that she's also a six foot nine black lesbian, which in Putin's Russia is a, is a warning to all good Russian mothers. Look what will happen to your children.

5 (9m 54s):
If you liberalize like the west, they knew that the motivation was there and that she was potentially a chit to trade for something if they wanted it. But there are also a number of people who said, well, wait a second, they're not making a big deal out of this. They arrested her. It's entirely possible that she did do it. And just because they're politicizing it or the, or they may be willing to trade for her doesn't mean that necessarily she didn't actually commit the crime. She was, she was accused of who knows, but what's become clear to the U S government at some point is that Russia is open for business and that they don't need to wait a year for her to go to trial. You can hold someone pretrial detention for a year over there that it's it's time to start moving.

1 (10m 37s):
So mum's the word when everyone finds out, but now here we are almost 80 days later. Do we know what Brittany's experience has been? Has she been able to speak out about this publicly?

5 (10m 49s):
She hasn't at all. The only connection to her has been her representatives to her lawyers, us consular officials were able to visit her back in March and reported that she was okay. What I'm hearing from people around her is that she's good considering. I mean, she's in jail in a foreign country. She doesn't speak the language. Supposedly there are people around who do speak English. She has reading material. You know, there were reports that it was tough to find a bed to fit her, which would make sense. She is six foot nine and that she's doing okay considering, but there's no way to independently verify that

11 (11m 25s):
It's tough. BG is us. We are BG. You know, that could have been us. We're really most concerned about her health and safety, especially her mental health. We want her home

5 (11m 34s):
Just imagine showing up for the start of a season. And the biggest player in the game is not there. You can't just pretend all of a sudden that babe Ruth or a Michael Jordan or somebody just isn't there. And it's been tough for players who wanted to speak out more, but now they know that they have some freedom to start doing that

12 (11m 58s):
Every day. And I can't wait to, she gets back here with us

5 (12m 2s):
And you saw some incremental increase in how much they were talking about, or if the NBA draft a few weeks ago,

12 (12m 10s):
She continues to have our full support.

5 (12m 12s):
The first statement out of the commissioner's mouth was about Brittany Griner.

12 (12m 16s):
And certainly we're trying everything. We can, every angle working through with her legal representation, her agent and elected leaders, the administration, just everybody in our ecosystem to try and find ways to get her home safely and quickly as we can.

5 (12m 33s):
And then just last week, there was a discussion about putting a decal on, on the floor of games.

3 (12m 38s):
MDA is honoring Greiner wood floor decals of her initials, Fiji, and the number 42 and all of its,

5 (12m 46s):
And these are all deliberate. It's all strategic to slowly start to ramp up the amount of tension that her case is getting. And the

1 (12m 54s):
Us government's now talking about her

5 (12m 55s):
Too well. That was the big change

3 (12m 57s):
As the government will now negotiate more aggressively to win Brittany Grinder's release and will not wait for the Russian legal system to play out here.

5 (13m 5s):
The people around her were just sort of waiting for permission or a sign that now it's time to really start speaking out

3 (13m 11s):
State department spokesperson saying in a statement they have now determined that the Russian Federation has wrongfully detained Griner and that a special presidential Envoy for hostage affairs will lead the inter-agency team for securing her release.

5 (13m 25s):
When will you talk about protests? You got to think about, well, who is it that you're actually protesting? Are you trying to create public pressure against Vladimir Putin? Because that's probably not going to work. This is somebody who launched into invasion United much of the world against him has been hit with the biggest sanctions in geopolitical history. And that didn't change him. So it seems unlikely that a hashtag is going to influence what he does. The real pressure that they want to create is with the U S government to try to force the white house and the state department to make her a priority, to cut a deal and get her home. And that's where you see some tension.

5 (14m 10s):
The families of Brittney Griner and former us Marine, Trevor Reed, who was there for more than two years and just came home. Their families have one goal and that's to get the loved ones home. The U S government has multiple goals. It's trying to one get those Americans back to not create a precedent that they fear is going to put more Americans in danger by creating an incentive and three serve, larger geopolitical interests. So the families, what they want to do is put as much pressure on the us government as they can. And the feeling that if they can put this in the forefront of Joe Biden's mind, you know, it does a lot of good if the president of the United States, or is as Ron claimed his chief of staff calling over to the state department saying, what's going on.

5 (14m 58s):
That that might be the sort of pressure that moves things along.

1 (15m 8s):
More with TJ Quinn from ESPN in a minute on today, explained

13 (15m 25s):
Support for today's show comes from thorn. Thorn is here to help you feel good about aging from the inside out. Thorn empowers you with personalized information and solutions to take proactive steps toward healthy aging. Their testing provides individual data, which they then use to educate you about your body and the best supplement formulas to support your health goals and needs one example, their collagen plus powder, unlike maybe a more typical collagen product collagen plus features a dream team of skin health ingredients, including plant extracts that have been studied to support beauty from within to learn more, go to thorn.com/you explained that's thorne.com/the letter U slash explained,

14 (16m 23s):
Check out these courts. Showpad made that sound famous in his funeral March, but it's actually the same chords that are found in Nirvana's song, something in the way This 180 year old ominous chord progression resonates with Cobain's melancholy lyrics. And the sound is connecting with listeners still today. Something in the way climbed billboards hot 100 and March, 2022 marketing. The fifth time Nirvana has been on the chart just like today. Explain breaks down the days. Latest stories switched on pop does the same for today's songs because it's not just Nirvana.

14 (17m 7s):
That's having a resurgence. The angst, the sounds of nineties alternative music has made a comeback. The genre's anti-corporate perspective, which developed out of the excesses of the eighties is a fitting backdrop to contemporary activists attitudes. This genre is back, but it's taken on a new sound with new faces. The second time around subscribe to switched on pop and discover the new alternative I'm cohost songwriter. Charlie Harding find switched on pop anywhere you get podcasts

1 (17m 47s):
They explained we're back with ESPN, investigative journalist, TJ Quinn, and TJ you've spent the past two months following this Brittany Grinder's story, but you just mentioned the Trevor Reed's story.

3 (17m 59s):
Former us Marine, Trevor Reed is back in Texas tonight after his surprise release from a Russian prison camp, part of a secretive high level prisoner swap.

1 (18m 8s):
Tell us why that story is so important to Brittany's story.

5 (18m 14s):
Trevor Reid is crucial to her story. He was former us Marine who had actually worked in president Obama's detail in the white house. His family said that he was over there learning Russian and visiting his girlfriend. And Reid was arrested after a drunken night. When you know officials say that he hit a cop and Paul Whelan was accused of espionage.

2 (18m 37s):
And now asking his brother, why was I left behind? Why has it more been done to secure? My release?

5 (18m 44s):
Whelan is a corporate security director for a company out of Michigan that does business in Russia and the U S government followed pretty much a similar path of just watching what happened with her cases, not really reacting. They got through their trial, independent observers, watch this and determined. This is ludicrous. These charges are ridiculous. And so at that point, once they were convicted, the U S government started saying, they're, they're both wrongfully detained. Trevor Reed started to get sick. He use his parents believe that he contracted tuberculosis over there and it was untreated.

16 (19m 19s):
He looked horrible. He looked like he could hardly walk. He looked like he'd been walking shackled. In fact, that when we both saw that video this morning, first time we started crying

5 (19m 27s):
And you saw a real split and strategy. Paul Wieland's family has been fairly low key about it, but Trevor Reed's parents both have their own volition. And through advice they got were really pushing hard saying, we need attention on him. Our son is over there, maybe dying in a Russian prison with this terrible care. Finally, just last week, a deal was cut, where he was sent home in exchange for a Russian pilot who had been convicted in this country of trafficking, pretty much a straight trade. And there was immediate reaction of why can't you get all of them out? What about Paul Whelan? His family was very upset and the number of people I've spoken to at the state department said, look, here's, what's different about Trevor Reed's case one, his health, there was an emergency.

5 (20m 16s):
They had to get him out, but they also really kind of flinched at the idea that it was the public campaign of the reeds that got them out. The people you talk to in states say, Hey, look, we've got as much motivation as anybody, maybe not their families, but you know, we have all the motivation. We need to get them out of there just personally, politically ethically,

17 (20m 37s):
The president has focused on that and we would say to him, we, we are, we are going to continue to do everything possible to bring you,

5 (20m 44s):
And there's frustration from them that there's not more public trust in what they do. And that is the real conundrum for a lot of these families and for the state department. And I've talked to people around Brittney Griner about this. Essentially what they're doing is asking an unbelievably skeptical public to accept that institutions are operating the way they should. And the people who run them are acting competently. And in good faith, we are just not built to think that anymore, not in this culture and society. So, you know, th the people around Brittany that I talked to kept saying, look, no, we have faith in the people who are doing this. We think they, you know, that they're really doing their best, but they also started to get impatient.

5 (21m 28s):
And once Trevor Reid came home, that was a big deal to people around Brittney Griner, cause they recognized, okay, maybe Brittany's case is different, but it means that there is an open channel. You've got two hostile governments that aren't quite at war with each other, but you know, the us is certainly supporting Ukraine. And just the fact that they were able to strike a deal for him, gave them a bit of optimism. They didn't have before,

1 (21m 55s):
You know, hearing Trevor Reed's story and hearing that Russia got something out of detaining him. They got a trade with the United States, a one for one trade. It does sort of make me think again, that Brittany Griner could be detained. Not just because she had some hash oil on her if she did, but because she is great leverage for Russia against the United States, if they want to trade her for another detained, Russian,

5 (22m 24s):
The reality is it doesn't matter if she did it or not, frankly, you know, if she did find, you know, they can still trade for if she didn't. Well, it doesn't matter in the Russian judicial system, because if they say she did, she did the U S government says, there's absolutely no proof that Paul Whelan committed espionage over there. But the Russian said he did and they convicted him and they've got him in jail. So what's the difference with Brittney Griner? What changed, you know, at this point was there was some indication that the U S government got that there is a deal to be made. And once that happens, it really doesn't matter. You know, whether she actually did what they accused her of. And even if she did go over there with vape cartridges and violate Russian law, they still want to try to get her out.

5 (23m 9s):
So it becomes all about a negotiation and the sign that was really promising to Brittany Grinder's supporters was it, wasn't just that the U S government reclassified her as being wrongfully detained. It's that former us ambassador bill Richardson, who has worked for years with his organization privately to negotiate for hostages around the world. They got involved.

18 (23m 33s):
I think this is a good sign. The Russians actually made this deal right now. Maybe they're sending a signal, maybe they're ready to talk. I'm not sure. I don't think so, but I think it's good news for Brittany and for Paul Whelan. And I'm going to do everything again to get them out.

5 (23m 52s):
They were deeply involved in Trevor Reed's case. They're allowed to do things that the us government is not. The government is restrained by us law about what kind of negotiations they can have, who they can talk to involving third parties in some sort of trade bill Richardson as a private citizen is not restricted from that,

1 (24m 12s):
But we still have no idea when she might be

5 (24m 16s):
Released. Absolutely none

1 (24m 19s):
Has the shaken, the faith of other w NBA players that they can spend the off season playing in Russia for more money. Is this basically the end of that phenomenon?

5 (24m 28s):
Well, it seems clear that nobody's going back to Russia. One just, you know, the state of the world, but if somehow there were some resolution and there was something like a normal stable government over there with, without Vladimir Putin in power. What had happened. It's really hard to say because you just can't imagine that all you know is that for the time being Russia is completely off limits, But there also really needs to be conversation about who people are getting into business with. The NBA had an owner of a team that was a Russian oligarch and the English premier league. There are football teams that are owned by oligarchs or oil money from the middle east.

5 (25m 10s):
When you go into business with an oligarch, or if you're a player who goes to get a paycheck from an oligarch, these are not pluggy business. People who started a lemonade stand and built it into something. No they're part of a criminal enterprise and that's who you're getting into business with. So beyond Russia, there is a larger question to be had in the, in the sports world about, you know, who are you going to let into the fold?

1 (25m 42s):
TJ Quinn is an investigative journalist at ESPN Hottie. Milwaukee produced our show today, Laura Bullard and Tori Domingas, fact-checked it a FIM Shapiro mixed and mastered it. Matthew collect, and I edited it. I'm Sean Rama's from this is today explained,

19 (26m 24s):
Hey folks, it's Preet Bharara host of stay tuned with Preet and cafe insider. As you have surely heard a draft majority opinion from the Supreme court that would overturn Roe V. Wade was leaked. This leads to countless questions. What does this mean for reproductive rights? Why was it leaked? What happens next here at the Vox podcast network? We've got you covered and caffeine cider. I sat down with my cohost Joyce vans to discuss the legal substance of the opinion and the potential impact on other constitutional rights. You can find that episode for free in the stay tuned podcast. Feed my colleagues that today explained, also spoke to New York magazines here in Carmona to break down what this means for reproductive rights and on the weeds.

19 (27m 9s):
Darra Lynn spoke with Supreme court expert, Ian Millhiser to answer listener questions and dig into the details of the opinion. You can find these important conversations by searching for stay tuned with Preet today explained and the weeds in your favorite podcast app, or visit podcasts dot Vox media.com for a full list of shows in the Vox media podcast network.