0 (1s):
On Wednesday, an autocrat with a legendary haircut deboarded, a bulletproof train in Russia to meet with an autocrat with next to no hair.

1 (10s):
As the slow moving train crossed the Russian border, Kim is finally feeling needed courted by President Vladimir Putin.

0 (18s):
This wasn a long train ride far longer than a flight. We don't know why Kim Jong-un won't fly. Maybe he's scared of getting shot down. Maybe he likes to get faxes while traveling.

2 (29s):
Passengers can be serenaded by beautiful female conductors while seated in their unique pink leather sofas.

0 (36s):
We don't know much about the meeting, what exactly was said, but we know what was on the menu. Duck and fig salad, crab dumpling sturgeon and beef with a choice of Russian wines and missiles. Why one of the most elusive men in the world took a long train ride to Russia when he could have just sent some bombs. Coming up. On today. explained support for this show today comes from Crucible Moments. Crucible Moments is a new podcast from Sequoia Capital, and it takes you inside the pivotal decisions that shaped top companies like Airbnb, PayPal, 23, and Me and More. You can tune into Sequoia's new podcast series to discover how some of the most transformational companies of the modern era were built.

0 (1m 23s):
Crucible Moments is out now and available everywhere you get your podcasts. and@cruciblemoments.com you can listen to Crucible moments Today.

4 (1m 34s):
Support for the show comes from a w s business is constantly changing. How are you staying ahead with a W Ss? You can power new possibilities with generative ai. Predict customer wants with machine learning, speed up prototyping, with data-driven design, and forge ahead with the power of the most experienced cloud. Just imagine how a W Ss can transform your business. Learn more@aws.com. This is

0 (2m 13s):
Today explains. The Stimson Center is a DC based think tank focused on global peace. They got a whole department dedicated to North Korea called 38 North, and Jenny Town is its director. We asked her to help us understand the significance of one unruly autocrat, taking a train to see another.

7 (2m 39s):
I think you know, this is really the culmination of a growing relationship. Something that we've been watching over the past couple of years, especially since Fresh is invasion of Ukraine. It's really brought these two closer together. Kim Jong is one of the few leaders who has openly and consistently pledged political support and material support to the Russians in their war against Ukraine.

8 (3m 2s):
Russia is now in the sacred fight against hegemony forces to protect its sovereignty and security interests. We have constantly expressed our full and unconditional support for all the decisions taken by the President and Russian leadership. And I want to assure you that we will always be together with Russia in the fight against imperialism.

7 (3m 23s):
And for that there's rewards for him from the Russian side as their global standing starts to diminish. So, you know, this is a historic relationship of friendship, but really taken to a new level. Now.

9 (3m 40s):
I had an in-depth discussion with Comrade Putin about the political and military situation on the Korean Peninsula. And in Europe we found satisfying consensus on further strengthening strategic cooperation and solidarity in the struggle to defend sovereign rights and security and to ensure lasting peace in the region and the world.

0 (3m 59s):
So give us sort of the lead up to this particular meeting. It's not like the former president meeting with Kim Jong-Un because that hadn't happened in a very long time. But what was the sort of precedent to this meeting between Putin and Kim Jong-Un?

7 (4m 18s):
It kind of depends on how far back you wanna go. There's certainly been growing relations over the years. There's been several rumors of growing partnership, especially of North Korea being willing to sell arms to Russia and some rumors that have come out about those deals. Russia

10 (4m 42s):
Has approached North Korea to request ammunition. Certainly we assess that things are not going well on that front for Russia. So the fact that they're reaching out to North Korea is a sign that they're having some challenges on the sustainment front.

7 (4m 56s):
But in the meantime, you know, none of this happens in a political vacuum. So there's been the 70th anniversary of the arm disagreements on the Korean peninsula that ended the Korean War.

11 (5m 7s):
The South and the North marked a stay quite differently here in Seoul. The day is a somber occasion. President Yanga invited dozens of foreign war veterans to honor those who died during the war.

7 (5m 18s):
The North Korean side celebrated it in its own way, inviting also the Chinese and Russians to be part of those celebrations. It

12 (5m 26s):
Is a massive spectacle. Precision marching bands, fireworks, balloons and planes forming a 70 in the sky

7 (5m 35s):
As North Korea now emerges from Covid and starts to open those borders. There's been a lot of, you know, traffic between the Russians and Chinese and the North Koreans that are really, you know, starting to grow that relationship in a, in a much more solidified way, especially as US South Korea Japan relations also deepen on the other side of the equation

13 (5m 59s):
Today, we've made history with the first ever standalone summit between the leaders of our three countries as well as our commitment to meet together on the leader level annually and to have all our relative cabinet member people eat on a regular basis for from this point on.

7 (6m 21s):
And so this is, I I think in some ways the idea that it culminated in a summit, yes, there's things that both sides want from each other, but there's also a sense of if the US and South Korea and Japan are going to demonstrate their friendship and their growing security partnership in this way, that the other side is going to also.

0 (6m 45s):
Okay, so that kind of sets the table for this meeting. What was the actual reason this particular summit was called?

7 (6m 52s):
Well, it seems that there's an arms deal. I think this wasn a surprise that the summit happened actually at one of Russia's space launch stations, where it's very clear that the Russians have made a choice to say that they're willing to openly work with the North Koreans on technology, especially on satellites and rockets.

14 (7m 13s):
The two met at the Voi Cosmodrome, Russia's most modern space launch facility. The venue possibly a hint Russia, may help North Korea develop military satellites after Pyongyang's two failed attempts at launching a spy satellite. Earlier this year

7 (7m 29s):
There's been lots of talk of also in the meantime cooperation on food and humanitarian assistance oil, things that North Korea needs, including the technology. But then also the question is, is, yeah, what is Russia getting on the other side? And there's very little information about what happened in that respect. But a lot of speculation of course, that the Russians are trying to buy North Korean artillery and munitions and, and small arms.

15 (7m 55s):
This wasn previously that North Korea was dependent upon Russia or China for support. Now it looks to me as if Putin's gone to North Korea with Tin Cup in hand asking for for weapons, munitions and support, which is an inverse of their previous relationship, which is pretty fascinating.

0 (8m 12s):
Hmm. I mean, and both of these countries are friends with China. China has a lot of the things presumably you're talking about. Why do they need to buy these things or give these things to and from each other?

7 (8m 24s):
I think it one demonstrates how few options the Russians actually have right now given their status and how much the international community has condemned Russia's illegal war in Ukraine. I think even the Chinese are very hesitant to provide direct aid or be open about providing direct military assistance to the Russians because they still care about their international standing. North Korea is one of the countries that doesn't have much of an international standing and so can afford to make these kinds of moves because it will benefit them, but they don't really lose as much in the process as what China would for instance.

7 (9m 5s):
And the other reason why North Korea makes sense for the Russians is because it's compatible with Russian systems already. So you know, they can use it. Hmm. It's the same gauges and stuff, so it makes it very easy to kind of plug and play. And North Korea has stockpiles of it, you know, like they haven't actually been at war since 1953 in the past. We've heard about rumors of the deal, but we haven't been able to verify anything in open sources.

0 (9m 30s):
So obviously Ukraine loses here. If, if Russia further cozy up to North Korea, who else loses?

7 (9m 37s):
Well I think, you know, this obviously throws a lot of complications into the mix. One would be, you know, obviously this will further agitate relations with the US and with NATO and, you know, will prolong Russia's ability to continue fighting. I don't think it's a game changer by any means given the kinds of, you know, arms in artillery that that Russia is likely getting or likely will get from the North Koreans. I

15 (10m 6s):
Think they'll get some munitions. But I don't know that they're gonna get so much that it'll make a substantive difference,

7 (10m 12s):
But it, it does prolong their ability to keep fighting. It might also though create really complicated recalculations in South Korea as well though because the US is wanted South Korea to get more involved and provide more hardware and more arms into Ukraine directly. And South Korea has been reluctant to do so.

16 (10m 34s):
Two major reasons for this. One is an economic relationship. It has billions of dollars in, in trade with Russia. But perhaps more importantly is the issue of North Korea. It is afraid that perhaps if it does anything to rub Russia the wrong way, i e by arming Ukraine, Russia's gonna go ahead and start either arming or helping in other ways. North Korea,

7 (10m 54s):
There's South Korean laws that prohibit the provision of lethal aid Hmm. Into conflict zones. And so, you know, they've been selling arms instead to like Poland in order for Poland to direct into Ukraine. And when there was talk, for instance, that South Korea might reconsider that the, the former Russian president had warned at that time, if South Korea did that, that Russia would then openly start to help North Korea with their missile programs. But, I, I think they're already playing that card, right, of like Russia saying, Hey, we are now willing to openly cooperate, especially on space cooperation, satellite cooperation and if that's open likely there's other aspects of their weapons programs that the Russians are also willing to support.

7 (11m 40s):
So that really opens the door then for, you know, south Korea to recalculate to say, Hey, if, if Russia's already doing this, then why wouldn't we help Ukraine directly? So I think that there's a lot of really interesting complications that this will cause and that will affect the war in Ukraine. I also think, you know, the Russians have probably been hesitant to be this visible and this open about its cooperation with the North Koreans because it does have costs for the Russians in terms of their political standing. We, if we're talking about for instance, space cooperation with the North Koreans, this is sanctioned activities.

7 (12m 25s):
So you know, for Russia to do this, they're basically, you know, taking a stand to say that regardless of sanctions, this is our friend and we have common interests and we are going to move forward in this because it benefits us regardless what the international community thinks. Hmm. And I think that's a position that the Russians have not been willing to take until now. And again, I think it shows just sort of the, where Russia sees itself in the international community right now as having not enough to lose by doing this. Whereas in the past they had still something to lose by doing. So

0 (13m 6s):
Jenny's gonna tell us more about what North Korea's getting out of this deal when we're back On today. explained

Rocket Money (13m 20s):
Support for today's episode comes from Rocket Money. If you've ever been budgeting and you've tried to cancel a bunch of your subscriptions, you probably know that it can be very, very difficult. The unsubscribe button is hard to find or they make you call to unsubscribe. They put you on hold, it can be a mess. Rocket Money can help you keep track of your monthly memberships. Rocket Money is a personal finance app and according to the company, they can find and cancel your unwanted subscriptions, monitor your spending and help you lower your bills all in one place. According to Rocket Money. They can make it easy to cancel the subscriptions you don't want with just the press of a button. Less time spent on hold, less time emailing customer service. Now you can stop spending money on things that you don't use. You can cancel your unwanted subscriptions and manage your money the easy way by going to rocket money.com/explained. That's rocket money.com/explained rocket money.com/explained.

4 (14m 17s):
Support for the show comes from a W Ss business is constantly changing. How are you staying ahead with a w s? You can power new possibilities with generative ai. Predict customer wants with machine learning, speed up prototyping with data-driven design, and forge ahead with the power of the most experienced cloud. Just imagine how a w s can transform your business. Learn more@aws.com.

18 (14m 54s):
Get off my train. Get off, get off. Get off. Get outta here. You stubborn. Today explained.

0 (15m 5s):
So Jenny, it sounds like Russia is pretty desperate Southern, they're knocking on North Korea's door. But what about North Korea? Are they just down to answer the door or are they in a desperate situation themselves? I know we don't know a ton about North Korea.

7 (15m 20s):
I don't think it's either or. I think it's both. Huh? They're definitely utilitarian. They're very pragmatic. They understand opportunity when it arises and they're ready to act on opportunity when it arises. And this is a definite opportunity for the North Koreans where again, it's very low political risk for them. Results are almost guaranteed with very little negotiation and they will benefit from it in some way depending on, again, Russia's calculation of what they're willing to do and willing to provide. But you know, north Korea is also now emerging from self-isolation from the pandemic.

19 (15m 58s):
North Korea has announced that it will now allow its citizens abroad to come back home as its border officially reopened after over three years of pandemic closure.

7 (16m 9s):
And so they've been since January, 2020, very, very limited trade. No tourism, no foreigners coming in. And so the situation inside North Korea, while we don't have a good gauge of on the ground reality, we know it's been a lot of hardship, especially on food security rising to the level of Kim Jong-Un and actually talking about a food crisis inside the country. Hmm.

14 (16m 39s):
Attention's being paid at the very top North Korean leader, Kim Jong-Un held a workers party meeting this week calling for a fundamental change in farming and state economic plans. But many say it is his re regime. It is chronic mismanagement and isolation that has caused this crisis.

7 (16m 56s):
Even as the border starts to open up. A lot of those first shipments coming in have been, you know, food and medicines and things that they've needed for a long time that now they can start to get in in a more regular basis.

0 (17m 11s):
And where is it coming from? Is it coming from Russia China?

7 (17m 15s):
It's coming from wherever they can get it. Ha definitely there, there has been stories about Russian wheats coming in. There's definitely been food aid coming from China. There's been some stories of rice coming from Southeast Asia and that the North Korean were actually complaining about the rice coming from Southeast Asia because it's the long grain rice instead of short grain rice. And they don't think it tastes as good

0 (17m 42s):
Real Asian problem too. Yeah,

7 (17m 43s):
Right.

0 (17m 44s):
Why does Kim Jong-un just perennially struggle to feed his people? Is he a terrible farmer?

7 (17m 51s):
Well, you know, there's very limited agricultural lands in North Korea. When the peninsula was first split, the northern half used to be the industrial center and the southern half was the agricultural areas. Mm. And so when the country was split arbitrarily in the middle, the south was very much behind the north when it came to industrial production because all of those institutions and operations were historically in the north. And so, you know, south Korea, as in a agrarian culture to begin with, had a long way to go to get to where they are now. Whereas the North has limited agricultural areas that never actually quite fully meet the needs of the people in a self-sustained way.

7 (18m 40s):
They're always a little bit short. But you know, in the past several decades that's been supplemented with food stuffs, imports that come in. So, you know, they can make up a lot of that when trade is healthy, when trade is coming in and, and when people can engage in market activity and start to do for themselves as well.

0 (19m 1s):
So the countries, by virtue of its geography in a precarious position when it comes to growing food. And during the pandemic, Kim Jong-un decides to make matters worse by shutting down trade,

7 (19m 13s):
Shutting down trade and shutting down all kinds of, you know, access to the country in order to prevent an outbreak from happening inside the country. Because their health system is just so weak that they never would've been able to deal with the kind of mass epidemic and healthcare needs that other countries went through

20 (19m 34s):
For two years as the global pandemic surged isolated North Korea boasted of zero Covid that recently changed as trade with China increased. And a series of national celebrations in April meant huge unvaccinated crowds spreading the virus.

0 (19m 55s):
Do we have any idea what that meant for food supply in the country? Do we know how bad things got?

7 (20m 3s):
So this is now dealing with a couple of years where the food supply was not supplemented by imports. And so we know that based on North Korean reporting, this wasn so bad that they started to distribute military stockpiles out to the people.

22 (20m 21s):
The specter of another famine has not stopped Kim Jong-Un from funneling his limited finances into building nuclear weapons. The money he spent on missile tests last year would've been enough, according to some estimates to ensure his entire population was properly fed.

0 (20m 38s):
But now the country's borders are back open and presumably they even have some vaccines out there in North Korea.

7 (20m 43s):
Presumably there's some vaccines. Yes. And there was talk in 2022 when North Korea did finally admit to having some cases of c Ovid 19 North

23 (20m 54s):
Korea has acknowledged its very first cases of c Ovid 19 leading the nation's ruler Kim Jong Un to declare a national lockdown. They

7 (21m 4s):
Did apparently start a vaccination campaign at that point. We don't know where they got vaccines from. We dunno how many vaccines they got or who was vaccinated, but it seems that they did see the need to vaccinate to have a vaccination campaign at some point.

0 (21m 21s):
So now finally, for the first time since 2019, Kim Jong-Un is feeling safe enough to leave his country to go to Russia to make an arms deal. How much of that deal has to do with his own position and his own people back home in North Korea?

7 (21m 37s):
It does play a big role. Right? Again, a lot of the cooperation expected is also on the economic side of the equation of, you know, food, oil, gas, things that North Korea desperately needs in order to revive their own economy. Even in the arms still, again, if it rises to the level of actually, you know, manufacturing new arms and munitions for the Russians that would have, you know, a huge economic impact in the short term. There may have also been discussions about returning North Korean workers to Russia where under sanctions, before they were expelled from the country and sent back.

7 (22m 17s):
But now if Russia is saying they don't care about sanctions anymore, this opens the door for, you know, greater cooperation to happen at that level as well. So there's definite economic opportunities in reestablishing and deepening the relations with Russia

0 (22m 36s):
Kim Jong Ill King Jong-UN's father was famously a lonely guy. Do King Jong Un and and North Korea have any other friends? I know Russia's one of 'em, China's in the mix. Who else is out there for them?

7 (22m 51s):
If, you look at the statements that Kim Jong Un has made, or that the North Koreans have made in say the Un General Assembly. They also will list off a number of countries that they have good relations with, including, you know, countries like Cuba, Venezuela, Vietnam, Cambodia, Palestine. The list goes on,

24 (23m 13s):
The D P R K delegation of else itself, of this opportunity to extend its full support and encouragement to the Cuban government and people. I also express our constant support to solidarity with independent countries, including Syria, Palestine, and their peoples.

7 (23m 28s):
And a lot of them are other countries that are also under sanctions or that they have historical friendships with. And you know, north Korea is not a hermit kingdom by any means. They have embassies outside of North Korea that are active and I think we are much more closed off to them than they are to anyone else. And so just 'cause they're not talking to the US doesn't mean they're not talking to anyone. They, they definitely are out there. They're active and they're cultivating relations with more sympathetic states.

0 (23m 59s):
And Dennis Rodman

7 (24m 1s):
And Dennis Rodman,

25 (24m 3s):
What do you actually talk about with, and, and I don't mean this insultingly a madman, murderous dictator,

26 (24m 12s):
Actually we talk about basketball.

25 (24m 14s):
Okay.

0 (24m 17s):
Did the world change after this meeting in a meaningful way, Jenny, or, or is it just sort of more the same or, or a bandaid on some existing issues that we have?

7 (24m 27s):
I wouldn't say the world changed. 'cause again, a lot of these things were already in motion. This is just sort of putting a fine point on it. Certainly it's much clearer now what Russia's willing to do and how they're willing to grow that relationship. It will be interesting to see how the Chinese respond to this because there's deepening China Russia cooperation going on at the same time and deepening China North Korea cooperation going on at the same time. Whether this rises to the level of an actual trilateral axis where, you know, we start to see joint military exercises or things like that, I think that's where we could be headed.

7 (25m 9s):
I don't think we're there yet. And then that's where the real block against block competition starts to come in and really agitate and exacerbate the security situation in the region.

0 (25m 23s):
Well, I really hope we don't have to call you back to talk about the day that happens.

7 (25m 27s):
Me too.

0 (25m 30s):
Thanks to Jenny Town from the Stimson Center. She runs their 38 north program focused on North Korea. And thanks to John Park at the Harvard Kennedy School for his help with this episode. We were produced by Avi Shai Artsy with help from Haddi Mawajdeh, edited by Amina Al, mixed by David Herman and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Sean Ramas firm and this is today explained.

4 (26m 16s):
Support for the show comes from a w Ss business is constantly changing. How are you staying ahead with a w Ss? You can power new possibilities with generative ai. Predict customer wants with machine learning, speed up prototyping, with data-driven design, and forge ahead with the power of the most experienced cloud. Just imagine how a w s can transform your business. Learn more@aws.com.

Zelle (26m 50s):
Support for this episode comes from Zelle. You'd never fall for an online scam, right? You use two factor authentication. Ignore calls from everyone named spam risk and never use the password. Password. But scammers are getting more sophisticated and more active, which means they're finding millions of new victims every single year. The good news is that there's a lot you can do to protect yourself on the wild, wild Web. For starters, Zelle wants to remind you only send money to people you know and trust. Zelle is available to United States Bank account holders. Only terms and conditions apply.