2 (4s):
We've been talking a lot about the war in Ukraine, on the show lately. But today we're going to step back and talk about what happens after a war ends. It's been a little over six months now since the Taliban regained control of Afghanistan and the United States made a very messy exit from its longest ever war, roughly 80,000 Afghans in danger of retaliation from the Taliban qualified to be airlifted out of the country. As you might remember, they were brought to a number of other countries, including the United States as evacuees and on the show today, you're going to hear from one of them about starting over after war.

2 (1m 10s):
It's an explained I'm Sean Rama's firm. And we were wondering how the Afghan evacuees were settling into the United States on the show. So today explains Halima Shaw found one and asked Halima, who did you find?

3 (1m 22s):
I found a woman named Hanifa wall. She's 30 years old and she was evacuated last year. And now she's living in Northern Virginia, outside of DC. And just trying to get adjusted to life here. So she's learning how to drive.

4 (1m 39s):
Yeah. So Halima the first, it was quite difficult getting to know the science, driving science here,

2 (1m 47s):
You went driving with her.

3 (1m 49s):
I went driving with her. I wasn't teaching her how to drive the person, actually teaching her how to drive as her is Dubby, who you heard in the car. I was kind of shadowing this driving lesson because Hanifa drove a little bit back in Afghanistan. She was living in Kabul, but she didn't really drive much. And driving in the U S is very different.

5 (2m 8s):
We have the traffic law, but nobody follows the law. Like there was no signals for stop, stop signs or any other speed signs. But here, once you move, like you know how to drive a car, but you don't know how to follow these signs.

3 (2m 25s):
That is Dubby, honey fuzz, brother. And he came to Virginia seven years ago and he's a citizen now. And honeycomb is pretty lucky because she actually has three brothers who are here in the us who are really helping her find her way, including giving her driving lessons.

5 (2m 41s):
Well, that's one of the difficult jobs to teach somebody how to drive a car because I have experienced this with my wife. Like I'm not, I'm not a good person to teach how to drive a car because I don't have that much patience.

2 (2m 53s):
Brotherly love

5 (2m 54s):
No, wait, hold on. Look at your mirrors. Both signs. You need to put signal here, keep doing good.

2 (3m 4s):
Wait, who am I feel like we skipped right to driving, but where does she live? Like what's her housing situation.

3 (3m 9s):
So Hanifa lives in a two bedroom apartment, which she shares with her parents, brother and nephew who were all evacuated with her. Oh, I'm sure the long-term goal is to move in somewhere. That's a little bit bigger, but this apartment was very hard to come by. Most have gone evacuees when they came to the U S were brought to us military basis first and then were resettled into homes. So for people who are resettled in Northern Virginia, it's really hard to find housing because one it's a very expensive area too. They didn't have income. And three, a lot of places don't accept a co-signer. So they were able to nail down this place because it was one of the few that would accept them.

3 (3m 52s):
If their resettlement agency agreed to pay 90 days of rent. And when those 90 days are up Hanifa and her family will be expected to cover rent on their own.

4 (4m 2s):
So now we are all looking for jobs. My brother and my nephew got a part job once. And then it was far from here and they didn't have a car. So couldn't reach there. They left that place and now they are getting a training at Dallas airport.

2 (4m 24s):
Okay. So it sounds like she's getting money through this resettlement agency. Is that the government or is that like a government partner and either way, how long is she going to get this money?

3 (4m 34s):
So resettlement agencies are oftentimes partners with the government. So it's not the same thing as the government. She's getting support from the government in that she is eligible for food stamps and cash assistance through the county. But the resettlement agency helped her with things like applying for those things and applying for medication. The government has given her a work permit and a social security number.

2 (4m 60s):
Okay. Does she like life in America so far?

3 (5m 4s):
She likes that her life isn't in danger, but I mean, suburban Virginia is very quiet and it's nothing like gobble.

2 (5m 11s):
I, I imagined that to be true Holly by,

3 (5m 14s):
Yeah, I do too. Because as a person who drove like 45 minutes to an hour from DC to suburban Virginia to do this story, I was like, damn, it's quiet out here. I am out in the boonies.

4 (5m 26s):
I miss everything. Sometimes when I wake up in the morning, I even miss the air driving on the streets, my home, my office colleagues, my friends and I, I miss everything about the country.

3 (5m 44s):
And she had a really high powered career in Afghanistan. I think without that she's feeling kind of bored.

4 (5m 50s):
Usually the days are spending in doctor appointments are arriving practice.

2 (5m 56s):
That sounds kind of boring compared to a high powered Korean Afghanistan. What was she doing?

3 (6m 1s):
That's sort of the whole reason she's here. She was a human rights attorney for

4 (6m 4s):
We're working. I have worked with Afghanistan dependent human rights commission for almost five years.

3 (6m 9s):
And eventually she worked directly with the previous government of a sheriff. Glenny

4 (6m 13s):
Almost a year in eight months as cobbled deputy governor on socio economic and development affairs.

3 (6m 21s):
So the fact that Hanifa worked with the previous government meant she had to get out of Afghanistan because she could face retaliation from the Taliban for being a member of the last government.

4 (6m 32s):
It was 16 August and I prepared myself for the office and it was eight o'clock in the morning. When I reached the office, I went to start my works. Normally the clicks was still coming and they were telling me that something is not normal. And I, I, I try to motivate them and I told them everything is okay, just get back to your works. Well, there was still a fair in my heart. And then it was around 10 30. When I received a call from origin director's office who told us to leave the office immediately.

3 (7m 16s):
So if you haven't sensed it already, this was the day that gobble fell into the Dolly bons control. The fall was not a total surprise. I mean, other provinces had fallen into their control with remarkable speed, but even as people sense, this was coming, it didn't really mean that people were prepared for this to happen in Kabul.

4 (7m 38s):
Everyone was running, the traffic jam was very high. And the only thing that came to my mind was going to the airport that was be taught. That might be the safest place. Guess the U S embassy was still in the airport.

3 (7m 56s):
So while others were waiting for days at the gobble airport, Hunetha actually managed to get on a plane on August 15th.

4 (8m 3s):
And somehow that moment was very heart-wrenching because we need that. Whatever was gained in 20 years, that has all been lost. And the pupil was so desperate. They didn't want the Taliban. And they were so afraid that they were ready to do anything just to flee from Taliban. The plane was full of pupil and a pilot left it because he said, I cannot take this flight with the smartest people we got out of the plane and the airport has a chaotic situation.

2 (8m 42s):
I think we all remember seeing this. These were like these grisly scenes of people falling off of planes and struggling to get into the airport. And, and there was a lot of ugliness there. What does Hanifa do in the middle of all that chaos,

3 (8m 56s):
Hanifa left the airport, but she didn't go home because she was expecting the Taliban to come looking for her. And she spent the next six days in hiding until she heard from us officials

4 (9m 15s):
21 August when at 11 o'clock, they called me that they give me an address. And they told me to read there as soon as you can. And I was also panicked because I knew this is the last option that I have and I have to get there.

2 (9m 30s):
So what happens after she gets this call? What does she do?

3 (9m 33s):
Well, the first thing she does is she tries to convince officials to let her take family members with her. Initially, when Hanifa got this call, it was so Hanifa could be evacuated from Afghanistan. She managed to convince officials to let her take her parents, her brother, and her nephew.

2 (9m 50s):
Nice. And are they like straight on a direct flight to Virginia? What happens next?

3 (9m 55s):
No, they were actually flown from cobble to <em></em> and then they were sent to an airbase in Germany. It actually wasn't until they arrived at Dulles airport, which is in Northern Virginia, just outside of DC, that Hanifa realized what her family's immigration status would be.

2 (10m 13s):
What was their immigration status?

3 (10m 15s):
A very precarious one. They didn't get one of the more common immigrant fuses. They got something called humanitarian parole, and Hunetha had no idea what it meant. She actually had to Google it once she got here,

2 (10m 31s):
I'm Googling it right now.

4 (10m 32s):
Actually, when we were evacuated, nothing was told, how are we going to take to us? What will be our estate is nothing, but we need to Dallas airport here in Washington, They put the humanitarian Pell visa to our passport. And then we, when we did the search for it, only thing I could find is that it's one of the urgent visa system by us.

3 (10m 57s):
What did you find in your Google search? Sean?

2 (10m 59s):
A bunch of government, immigration bureaucracy kind of stuff.

3 (11m 2s):
Yeah. That sounds about right. Humanitarian parole is actually this rarely used program that the U S relied on for Vietnamese evacuees. Yeah. So it's an old program and it's kind of a fast track for foreigners who are in emergent situations and really need to get to the U S as soon as possible. It's a program that does not grant permanent residency. Instead it gives someone two years of protection from deportation. And about 70,000 of the 80,000 of guns who were evacuated are classified as humanitarian parolees with the idea being that they're going to have two years to get their paperwork together and qualify for one of the more permanent pathways, which would be a special immigrant visa or asylum, which come with permanent residency or a pathway to citizenship.

2 (11m 56s):
I mean, two years sounds like a reasonable amount of time to figure that out. Yeah,

3 (11m 60s):
It does, but not when there's a mountain of SIV and asylum applications that are still waiting to be processed.

6 (12m 7s):
Click has been growing and growing over a time overall, it's a growing number of asylum applications and an agency that just hasn't been keeping pace with that number.

3 (12m 18s):
So this is Julia , she's a senior policy analyst at the migration policy Institute, and they reported a backlog of about 18,000 SIV applications and over 400,000 applications for the affirmative asylum system, which is the type of asylum Afghan parolees would apply for.

2 (12m 38s):
Wow.

7 (12m 39s):
Yeah.

2 (12m 40s):
Mount asylee,

3 (12m 42s):
A mountain indeed.

2 (12m 43s):
And which is Hanifa applying for the SIV or the asylum?

3 (12m 49s):
Well, Hanifa has not applied for either yet. Huh? She wouldn't even be eligible for SIV because that is pretty narrowly defined as a program for somebody who worked directly with the us government or us government contractor, what she would be eligible for is asylum, which is a much broader pool of people. And she would have to demonstrate that as a former official of the Afghan government, her life is in danger and she has this founded fear of persecution in her home country. But the reason Hanifa hasn't applied for either of those two things is because she doesn't think her application's going to be processed anytime soon.

3 (13m 30s):
She's hoping for a third option And it's a third option that doesn't exist yet, but it has been floated. And in order for it to come into existence, there will have to be a big fight on Capitol hill.

7 (14m 4s):
Important conversations around what it means to be a professional or happening right now on LinkedIn members are talking about things like adding flexibility to where and how we work. They're talking honestly about taking time away from work, to focus on their families and mental health, because those things should not stumped career development and showing up to work on our own terms as our full selves, isn't an impediment to growth. It's actually the key to unlocking it. LinkedIn members are adding vital new information to their job. Titles and workers everywhere are defining themselves more completely. There are radio hosts slash activist slash moms, finance managers slash poet slash dog dads. And so many more professional is our to define. So if your LinkedIn doesn't reflect who you really are, update your job title, post your truth, show the world the authentic professional year and join the redefining professional on LinkedIn.

7 (14m 54s):
LinkedIn welcome professionals.

3 (15m 5s):
It's a new year. So it started off on the right foot, build a solid financial future for yourself. By checking out wealth, front.com. Wealthfront was designed by financial experts to help you start investing with ease and clarity. If you're just getting started with investing, you can rely on their classic portfolio, but if you're already good at the whole investing thing, you can just use wealth front to simply rebalance your existing portfolio. Wealthfront is here to get you invested in what interests you and make informed credible decisions to start building your wealth today and get your first $5,000 managed for free for life.

3 (15m 47s):
Go to wealth, front.com/explained that's w E a L T H F R O N t.com/explained to start building your wealth, go to wealth, front.com/explained to get started today.

5 (16m 10s):
When you drive just focus, you don't need to give a look at that

2 (16m 14s):
Halima. When we left off, Hanifa was looking at this Mount SIV Mount asylee over, you know, 400,000 people trying to make it through this immigration system right now. And she didn't really want to join them to find a more permanent status here in the United States.

3 (16m 34s):
Yes, and I should mention that I reached out to the United States citizenship and immigration services, U S C I S about this. And they told me in a statement that recent off gun parolees should not be affected by the backlogs.

8 (16m 49s):
There is no backlog for affirmative asylum and SIV applications for Afghan nationals who were paroled into the United States through operation allies. Welcome DHS previously announced that the department will exempt filing fees and streamline application processing for Afghan nationals who are paroled into the United States for humanitarian reasons on or after July 30th, 2021.

3 (17m 15s):
And since the backlog is not supposed to delay off gun parolees, asylum or SIV applications, I asked U S C I S. How many of those applications they've approved so far? And they told me that

8 (17m 29s):
The data you've requested is not publicly available at this time. Sad

3 (17m 33s):
Now to Congress's credit. They did order agencies to decide, have gone parolees asylum cases in roughly five months, but Julia Galot at the migration policy Institute. Isn't sure that will actually happen. If the agency gets a wave of applications from the thousands of parolees who are already in this country,

6 (17m 53s):
Given the way things are currently moving, it seems like it would take several years to get through, you know, 70,000 Afghans asylum applications, or even 36,000, whatever. The number turns out to be a people who apply for asylum in recent years, the us has approved fewer than 30,000 affirmative asylum applications per year. So at that pace, this could take quite a while.

2 (18m 22s):
How does Hanifa feel about her status in this country right now? The, the options she has, the timeline, all of it.

3 (18m 30s):
You know, I asked her if she felt like she was given false hope because she was basically evacuated from Afghanistan, told she was going to be taken somewhere safe and it wasn't until she got there that she found out her status is temporary.

4 (18m 44s):
I want to say that they give us a false hope, but I guess I've, can't, don't deserve it being the closed alleys and working with them for common costs all these years. I think the us government in the us pupil based on values, they believe on, they will try to advocate for Afghans and I'm sure they will find the legal path for them.

2 (19m 14s):
Okay. So it sounds like instead of false hope, she's actually hopeful that Congress will get together and figure out an additional path for Afghan evacuees, not the special immigration visa nor silent, but some third path.

3 (19m 32s):
Yes. And that third path would be something called the of gun adjustment act.

6 (19m 38s):
This would create a straightforward pathway for Afghans to apply for green cards. Basically anyone who was evacuated by the United States to the United States, from Afghanistan in recognition of their humanitarian need, could have a way to apply for a green card.

3 (19m 55s):
And basically enough gun adjustment act would mean that evacuees would have to go through the standard green card background checks instead of the SIV or asylum processes, which are far more cumbersome, take way more paperwork and usually require a lawyers assistance.

2 (20m 12s):
How likely is Congress to do something like this? I think Congress has a lot of other things on their mind, like Russia and Ukraine and stuff like that.

3 (20m 18s):
Yeah. And Congress also has a very bad track record with passing any kind of bi-partisan immigration legislation, but a source of hope could be that they have done stuff like this in the past,

9 (20m 30s):
Tons of refugees, fleeing Vietnam. Many don't make it this far.

10 (20m 35s):
We hope that we will get all the help of the people in the government of the United States. These help us to survive.

3 (20m 45s):
And when we look at the Vietnamese example, we see that a Vietnamese adjustment act didn't pass for Vietnamese parolees until about two years after the fall of Saigon.

2 (20m 57s):
One thing that occurs to me here is that the whole government seemed to really care about what happened in Afghanistan six months ago. There was a lot of bi-partisan attention on this. Is there bi-partisan attention on what happens to these evacuees?

3 (21m 15s):
It's true. I mean, operation allies welcome, which was the legislation that airlifted off guns out of gobble had bipartisan support, but we're not seeing that type of support from Republicans and Democrats for an off gun adjustment act. We've seen some Democrats back it, but there has not been a single Republican who has publicly supported this. And it could be because either constituents or legislators on the right view of gun evacuees as a national security threat, take Republican Senator Tom cotton, as an example, who is actually a veteran of the war in Afghanistan.

11 (21m 53s):
We have no idea who these people are. We're just taking on faith, they're using their real name. And then we're testing against incomplete database and saying, well, if we don't have a record of you being a terrorist and you must be fine, you're not going to attack Americans. You're not going to commit sex offenses against American women. You're not going to bring any kind of disease or anything else in the country. Wow.

3 (22m 9s):
This isn't really an idea. That's rooted in reality, because from my conversations with Hanifa, evacuees had extensive vetting at the two air bases that they went to before they even came to the United States. And Julia told me that this kind of thinking ties directly to the very dangerous evacuation at gobble airport, which was broadcasted to the whole world last year,

6 (22m 33s):
When people saw the evacuation from Kabul, it looked really chaotic and messy. And I think that led to a perception that may be some bad people had snuck onto the Plains. But the truth is that everybody who made it to the United States went through extensive vetting before arriving to the United States. So the U S was evacuating people to its military bases abroad, and then conducting background checks and security checks. And those people before they were flown to the United States.

3 (23m 3s):
On the other hand, we could see some rare cooperation for enough gun adjustment act, because some of the strongest backers of this legislation are refugee advocates and veterans groups, which have some more conservative members.

2 (23m 16s):
I mean, the strongest backer of ending this war, which led to this entire situation is the president himself. Is he going to throw his weight around on this issue? Is there anything that the executive branch can do without Congress?

3 (23m 29s):
Well, granting green cards is pretty much something that only Congress can do, but if nothing passes Biden could renew Africa and evacuees humanitarian parole. So it doesn't expire in two years. The problem with that is it still doesn't give permanent residency. It just kind of kicks the can further down the road.

2 (23m 49s):
So what happens if none of this works out, if honey fed doesn't get this third path, if she never gets to the front of the line on asylum or SIV, does she get deported in like a year and a half?

3 (24m 4s):
What could happen is that Afghan evacuees could fall through the cracks of the U S immigration system.

6 (24m 10s):
It's incredibly hard to imagine the U S deporting someone to Afghanistan right now, especially someone that the us evacuated at government expense to the United States. But what could happen is that people could end up in legal limbo if their parole expires and they haven't been able to get asylum or something else they'll remain in the United States as an unauthorized immigrant and joined our population of about 11 million other unauthorized immigrants.

2 (24m 40s):
So she probably won't get deported, but she could end up losing her status. And basically living here illegally,

3 (24m 48s):
That is if the Biden administration doesn't extend their parole in the absence of enough gun adjustment act,

2 (24m 54s):
Huh? It's kind of heavy that you might just end up being an unauthorized immigrant in a country that you didn't even plan on coming to that, just so happened to start a war with the country you were born in, you know, 20 years ago.

3 (25m 10s):
Yeah. And I think this is why Hanifa is somewhat critical of the Biden administration's management of Afghanistan. And I think this is why a lot of immigration advocates are very critical of how the Biden administration has handled evacuating off guns.

2 (25m 25s):
So what's the NEEF up to in the meantime, just trying to get that driver's license and hanging out in Northern Virginia,

3 (25m 31s):
She is, and she's also thinking about ways she might be able to continue her career. She's very passionate about being a lawyer. And in theory, she could take the bar in Virginia and practice law here. But I think that she spends a lot of time just thinking about Afghanistan and the colleagues that she left behind

4 (25m 50s):
My colleagues contact me. And they told me that there is a Taliban members working in there. And yeah, it's at most of the government offices. Now there are thought about it.

12 (26m 5s):
How does that feel knowing that your office is there's, there's someone from the Taliban, basically sitting and working from there. Now,

4 (26m 13s):
Usually when you're a public servant, your job is not permanent. And it's like, sometimes you're working there or at the time someone else's coming, but I just wish and hope. One thing that whoever's at that office, they worked for their pupil and for the betterment of that country.

3 (26m 35s):
And it's interesting because as imperfect as the humanitarian parole system is, and given the frustration that honey Fe has with, she's still relying on it to see if she can help her colleagues get out of the country.

2 (26m 49s):
Wait, what you're saying? After everything we just heard after all of the, maybe Congress might do something, but maybe not Hanifa still wants to help her former colleagues in Afghanistan get the experience that she's having right now.

13 (27m 9s):
Yes.

4 (27m 15s):
Most of the time when I'm thinking about them, I just can do my daily activities because I just wonder is that what's going to happen to them. What if I had any bad news and I try to apply for humanitarian parent for most of them, but unfortunately the process is very slow and I haven't heard anything back yet.

2 (27m 59s):
Our episode today was reported and produced by Halima Shaw. Fact-checked by Laura Bullard engineered by Paul mousey and a FIM Shapiro and edited by Matthew Collette. And me I'm Sean Ramez from it's today explained