1 (4s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king when Russia invaded Ukraine, the United States and the international community decided to go after Russia's all oligarchs, the really rich guys who often made their money in really corrupt ways. Reporters went to Dubai to track luxury apartment purchases and to Italy, to track down yachts writer all over below, who spent a good part of his life on the crooked Russian oligarch beat did not have to go very far at all.

2 (33s):
You can write about Russian corruption really well without leaving the UK. In fact, I think you can probably write about it more accurately without leaving the UK because all the money ends up here.

1 (43s):
It ends up in London,

2 (45s):
Maybe stolen from over there, but it ends up here,

1 (48s):
The oligarchs and the accountants and the lawyers and the developers who serve them coming up.

BalanceUS (60s):
The Coca-Cola company, Keurig Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold, contained zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more

Outdoorsy (1m 17s):
Flights are getting pricey. The kids are getting restless and that home office got old six months ago. There's only one thing left to do get out of here and bring the outside in with an RV rental from outdoorsy. Outdoorsy is the world's largest peer-to-peer RV rental network. Choose from thousands of vehicles ready to help you reconnect with family nature and even yourself, get outta here and book an RV today@outdoorsy.com.

1 (1m 54s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king oligarchs have been in a lot of trouble since Russia invaded Ukraine, their yachts have been seized. Their jets have been seized. Their assets have been frozen over bolos. New book Butler to the world is about how the British have been quietly assisting oligarchs for decades. Now, Oliver is interested in all of this because he started his career as a reporter and a writer in Russia.

2 (2m 23s):
So I'm from Wales. I grew up on a farm in mid Wales and always had this weird and not really explicable obsession with the former Soviet union, then the actual Soviet union. And it just seemed the most interesting place in the world. Like everything was interesting When I was a student, I used to go and travel around there in my holidays. And then after I graduated, I just moved to Russia and I became a journalist, not really at it out of any desire to become a journalist, just because I needed a job. And I suppose I had this in retrospect, incredibly naive idea that I would be sort of witnessing Russia's transition to democracy and freedom and the kind of development of a new kind of society.

2 (3m 12s):
You know, the only time in history you would ever see such a firm kind of autocracy transitioning into democracy, it was going to be great. But that isn't what happened. Obviously about three weeks before I arrived in Russia or a man called Vladimir Putin became prime minister. So instead of writing about democracy, I ended up writing about this rather depressing, reverse instead, But all the time there was this sort of weird, you know, kind of backbeat to what I was writing about, which is that editors would call up from London and be like, this guy is just bought a football club, who is he or this guy's just bought himself the biggest house in London after the one that belongs to the queen, who is this guy or, or whatever, you know, these kinds of questions.

2 (4m 1s):
And what was strange was people who were oligarchs in Russia and generally seen as being, you know, terrible violators of all there was right and proper, as soon as they got in a plane and flew to the UK, they became entrepreneurs or philanthropists or, you know, providers of foreign direct investment. So, you know, my friends and I used to get quite annoyed about this, cause it always seemed a bit hypocritical. And so we started running these things called the kleptocracy tours. Hello. Hello, welcome to Hyde park. For 400 years, London has been coming here to freely speak to freely assemble to Sunday, to horse ride, to do all the things that are most fun to do in London in an open space.

2 (4m 41s):
But we're not here to talk about Hyde park. We had to talk about one Hyde park, the building behind me, which is probably the most exclusive gated community in Milwaukee. It's a bit like the Hollywood tours. You know, when you put people in a bus and points out, you know, the house that belongs to another Scarlet, your Hanson or, or whoever Robert Downey Jr. And, but instead of that, we point out houses that belong to like Russian oligarchs or, you know, Russian deputy prime ministers or you, whatever. I mean, oligarchs from wherever, what we're looking at here apart from me obviously is 60 million pounds worth of house. And if that doesn't look like much house for 60 million pounds, that's cause you're only looking at half of it. And because of that, I sort of became the kleptocracy guy

1 (5m 22s):
In your book. You refer repeatedly to the United Kingdom as the Butler to the world. What do you mean? What are you saying there?

2 (5m 30s):
So this particular metaphor derives from a conversation I had with an American academic could Andrew a few years ago and because of the kleptocracy tourism, because I'm one of the kleptocracy guys. When he came to London to look into Chinese money laundering in particular and you know, London, doesn't just learn the Russian money. Launders all the money. So Chinese, whatever it all comes through here. And he came here and every time he asked me about what's the, of the Southern district of New York and I'd have to say, well, we don't, we don't have that. Or, you know, what's the equivalent of Homeland security investigations as well. We don't have that either. And what's the equivalent of, you know, the department of justice has cracked up kleptocracy initiative or whatever.

2 (6m 11s):
And I said, well, I'm afraid we don't have that either. And so it went on and eventually I just had to stop him and say, look, we don't have any of those things here. United States, you're the policemen of the world, right? You, you, you do these investigations. You, you bring these cases, you prosecute people. We don't do that here. There's no money in that. And then I was like, well, if he, if he, if the U S is the policemen of the world, what's Britain at this stage. And, and, and, you know, I suppose what I was thinking was something along the lines of conciliary in a mafia film, You know, the kind of guy who sits in the backroom of a, of an Italian restaurant in Brooklyn with the Dawn and wearing a white vest and a wife beater, you know, one of those singlets and they discuss business over pastor sort of thing like that.

2 (6m 58s):
Paula

5 (6m 59s):
I've been here consiglieri for a lot of years, Brianna, but just tell me what on your mind you got some unhappy people out there.

2 (7m 6s):
Yeah. But, but that's very much not British. So what I was thinking, what's the British equivalent. And then it struck me, well, Butler, that's it Butler with a Butler to the world. We were beautifully dressed and we're very polite and we we've got the right accent and all that, but we're utterly amoral. If you want something done, if as long as you can pay us, we'll sort it out for you. So we're like the dark Jeeves with, you know, the polite constantly Harry, that's what we are.

5 (7m 30s):
Here's where the conversation gets difficult.

1 (7m 35s):
How did this start? What, what's the Genesis of Britain becoming the place that facilitates offshore economies.

2 (7m 42s):
It's really interesting, isn't it? Because, I mean, if you think about what Britain used to be, right, Britain used to be the oligarch, right? Britain, Britain, what Putin is doing to Ukraine. Now, that's what Britain used to do to places. If we didn't like the trade policy of a country, wherever we'd send in the war ships and bombard them until they changed their mind. And so the transition from that from being the kind of oligarch to being the Butler is a really interesting one that gets very little attention in Britain or anywhere else weirdly. Cause it's kind of significant, I think, and it's very much a post-imperial story. You know, we, we went bust as an empire and we needed a new way of making a living.

2 (8m 27s):
And it's a little bit like an aristocrat who, you know, he used to have the big house and the place in town and a yacht. And he was a member of all the right clubs. And he knew how to be an aristocrat perfectly cause he was one, but then he goes bust. So what's, he got left while he, all he's got left is his knowledge of how to be an aristocrat. So instead of being one himself, he sells that knowledge to other people who want to be one. And that's a little bit like what Brooklyn does, Britain lost the empire, but it still knows how to do all the stuff it used to do when it was an empire. And there is this, there is this moment when this happens, the moment when, when this business model is discovered, it's completely accidental. And it happened a surprisingly long time ago, 1955 in the, in the depths of the cold war, Starlin was dead, but it only been dead for a couple of years.

2 (9m 15s):
And the Soviet union was concerned that if it kept its dollars, which it used, obviously for financing its international trade in New York, then the U S government might freeze them if there was a geopolitical crisis. So it wanted to be able to put them somewhere else. You know, where would they be safe from the enforcement arm of the U S government? And, and the Soviet union had a bank in London and the Mackowski not on any bank. It didn't do much, but it did exist. And so it moved its dollars to London. It felt well, there'll be safe in London. We'll just put them there. And then there were banks in London that were starved of capital and they desperately wanted some capital from anywhere. They didn't much care where, so the muskox Skinner of the bank lent its dollars to a British bank, which is called the Midland bank.

2 (10m 1s):
And both banks realized conceptually backs it in this wasn't ever intended that they'd stumbled upon this amazingly profitable thing. Because at the time there were all sorts of restrictions on what you could do with dollars. The U S government was very strict on how much interest you could charge, where you could put dollars, what you could do with them. And so on. It was, it was very tightly controlled and the British government did the same thing with pounds. But if you move those dollars to London, the British restrictions didn't apply because you weren't dealing with pounds. And the U S restrictions didn't apply because you weren't in the U S so that they had miraculously invented with this one trade, which soon became an awful lot of trades. They invented a space that had no law that if they totally knocked it a hole through the global financial regulatory system, and they needed a term for what they're discovered.

2 (10m 50s):
So they called what that invented off shore. This is where it comes from. And from this little idea, this miniature single trade between the muscular skin I wrote in the bank and the Midland bank, just to put dollars in London, rather than New York, they built an entire offshore empire. This is where it all comes from. And it's kind of the invention that changed the world because pretty soon it wasn't just Soviet banks moving dollars to London. It was American banks and Japanese banks and German banks and every bank, because it was so much more profitable to do business in a place where there are no rules. And that meant in order to try and catch up with what the Brits were doing, the Americans had to cut their regulations.

2 (11m 30s):
And so did the Germans. And so did the Japanese, everyone had to try and chase the city of London and in this race to the bottom. And what this meant was that for the owners of wealth, the, the clients who had hired Britain, the Butler, there were fewer and fewer onerous restrictions on what they did with their money. So the taxes were lower. The regulations were fewer, the restrictions were fewer and it just became easier and easier to be very rich. And that's what Britain did. It transformed the world from a place where if you had money, they were onerous restrictions to follow to a place where they weren't. And that's what I mean by being a Butler, you know, that's what our clients wanted. And that's what we provided.

1 (12m 7s):
We started by talking about your early career in Russia, you watched the rise of the oligarchs. These were men who owned huge swaths of Russia's natural resources. They were well-connected. They became billionaires. And there was one in particular, he's in the book who you are very interested in, who is this man

2 (12m 27s):
To meet three

Canva (12m 49s):
Support for today's show comes from Canva. Pro Canva pro is a design platform that empowers you to create and share stunning content in just a few clicks. You can choose from over thousands of templates that are easy to customize, or you can start from scratch. Canva pro has endless premium fonts, premium fonts. I'm reading here are back no more comic Sans, I guess, along with photos and videos to add personality and edge to whatever you're designing. Ken for pro also helps you stay organized on the same page and on top of team projects. Plus, if you want to make designing with canvas, a team activity, you and your teammates can unlock everything Canva pro has to offer for just $12 and 99 cents a month. So design like a pro with canvas pro. Right now you can get a free 45 day extended trial when you use our promo code. Just go to canva.me/explained to get a free 45 day extended trial. That's C a N V a dot M E slash explained canva.me. Flash explained.

Mattress Firm (14m 3s):
Hurry into mattress firms, July 4th sale. Get a king bed for the price of a queen or a queen for a twin and save up to $500 on Sealy. Plus get a free adjustable base with qualifying Sealy purchase of two, a $499 value or shop Tempur-Pedic the most highly recommended bed in America and save $500 on all Tempur-Breeze mattresses and get a $300 instant gift good towards sleep accessories. Only at mattress firm restrictions apply, see store or mattress firm.com for details.

1 (14m 37s):
Oliver. Before the break, you introduced us to this oligarchy. Dimitri Firtash tell us about him.

2 (14m 44s):
Dmitri Firtash is one of my favorite oligarchs. I use the word favorite in the sense of fascinating, rather than the kind of guy that I I'd like to be godfather to my children. He is I think the perfect encapsulation of person's willingness to take money from anyone, whoever they are, wherever the money comes from. He is a Ukrainian billionaire or used to be a billionaire, whether he still is. I'm not sure. And basically he became very wealthy selling gas on behalf of laudomia Putin to Ukraine,

8 (15m 21s):
One of the richest men in Ukraine, Dimitri fear, Tash made billions in natural gas, mining and agriculture and long supported pro Putin political forces in Kiev.

2 (15m 32s):
It's an important job because you crane, as we know now has been constantly striving to break free of Russian control and has been for 30 years and the most important tool that Russia has had to prevent it from breaking free, to punish it for breaking free and to dissuade it from doing so is gas. You know, the Ukrainian economy is very dependent on gas because of the Soviet legacy. And that gas tends to come from Russia. Cool through Russia. So Dimitri fare Tasha is the guy who rather be Putin's gas company, gas prom, handpicked to be its man in Ukraine. And what's the man with billions of dollars going to do with them.

2 (16m 14s):
If he's Ukrainian, because you know, Ukraine is a super lovely country, but there isn't that much to buy that if you've got billions of dollars. So he needed somewhere else to spend them. And he looked around and quite obviously the place he chose to bring them was the UK was London. As Boris Johnson said, when he was mayor of London as the jungles of Sumatra or the natural habitat of the orangutan, London is the natural habitat for the billionaire. And so he came here in 2007 just after he'd earned the money. No one really knew what he looked like, right? This is a totally unknown person. And he set up, he set up a British Ukrainian society, which was a charitable organization with a number of members of the house of Lords members of the house of commons on the committee.

2 (16m 59s):
People who were happy to take some freebies from him and to go on some nice, exciting, all expenses, paid trips. He started giving some money to Cambridge university Britain, second oldest and second most prestigious university. And he gave so much money. In fact, a foot to create a center of Ukrainian studies that by 2011, just four years after he arrived, he was, he got to hang out with the Queen's husband, the duke of Edinburgh. He was brought into the Guild of benefactors, this incredibly prestigious club of generous donors by 2013, he is opening trading on the London stock exchange. And he's hanging out with the speaker of the house of commons, John Bercow, which is also amazing. He's bought himself a mansion in central London, just down the road from Harrods, the big luxury shop.

2 (17m 44s):
And, and then when another crisis breaks out in Ukraine, this is 2014 annexation of Crimea and so on, which is what's leading up to the crisis that we're living through. Now, he is brought in by our foreign office, the foreign ministry here to advise them what to do about Putin. You know, this is a man whose whose social ascent from unknown Ukrainian businessmen to person who hangs out with the Queen's husband advisers, the government owns a mansion. And so on is just vertical. It's extraordinary. And that's what you get in Britain. If you come here with a lot of money, you get to hang out with members of the house of Lords members of the house of commons with the Queen's husband, with top academics, you get fated by the great and the good you get to open trading and London stock exchange.

2 (18m 31s):
But what's so extraordinary about this story and how this draws the comparison between Britain Butler to the world and the United States policemen to the world is the fact that all the time that this was happening, the U S was investigating his wealth, was interested in what he was doing. And he was indicted by the FBI and arrested in Vienna on a S arrest warrant.

9 (18m 54s):
The U S claims it's been investigating him since 2006 for suspected bribery and setting up a criminal organization.

2 (19m 2s):
The eight years he's been stuck in Vienna, battling extradition to the us

10 (19m 6s):
For Tash denounces, the Russian invasion and denies reports. He has ties to Vladimir Putin or links to Russian organized crime. Calling bows lies and smears for Tash says, he's asked American officials for permission to leave Austria and returned to Ukraine where his industrial plants, he says, have all been transformed into defense production.

2 (19m 28s):
And that's what I mean by the distinction between Butler to the world and policemen to the world. Someone makes a huge amount of money in, you know, possibly questionable, possibly not questionable circumstances. Britain says, brilliant, get your money over here. What can we sell you? America starts investigating and tries to indict the guy. That's the distinction between your country and ours. And, and I think it's an example, which really explains a lot.

1 (19m 52s):
Oh, right. So you have this situation in which these guys are coming into the UK with tons of money. They're setting up societies, they're getting away with a lot of stuff. And then Russia goes marching into Ukraine. And suddenly much of the Western world is just angry at Russia. How has the conversation in Britain changed since Russia invaded Ukraine, are the oligarchs getting more attention, more negative attention.

2 (20m 19s):
There has been a complete shift in the conversation.

11 (20m 24s):
You say you have no links to Vladimir Putin, but despite the city of your birth, that being under attack, you've offered no condemnation. Some might conclude you're more concerned about your money than your country. What would you say to them?

12 (20m 36s):
I'm also worrying about the country.

2 (20m 39s):
It's not to say that there wasn't negative attention towards them in the past. You know, if you look at some of the things that Russia or Putin has done in Britain or in Europe more broadly over the last few years, it's not surprising. There was negative attention, right? I mean, in 2006, Russian spies killed Alexander Litvinenko or a refugee. A former Spire living in this country was helping the British security services. They killed him with polonium two 10, possibly the most deadly substance known to man.

13 (21m 5s):
He tells her the case seems stolen from a spinal level. Surveillance video shows the Russian agents at the London hotel, where they allegedly injected a powerful dose of the highly radioactive element. Polonium two 10 into Litman yet goes T during a meeting there

2 (21m 21s):
In 2018, they try to kill Sergei ScripPal and other emigre in this country. And other expire, obviously they invaded Georgia in 2008. They invaded Ukraine in 2014. I mean, you know, Russia has been doing a lot of bad stuff. And yet throughout that period, despite a bit of sort of rhetorical chat, Russian money has been welcome in this country. Russian oligarchs have been welcomed here. They've owned our football clubs, they've bought property. And so on. It hasn't been enough. What's happened in Ukraine in the last couple of months has been transformational in the conversation. But in terms of what's actually happened, obviously a lot of oligarchs have been sanctioned, which is good, but all of the money that came here, it came here through loopholes in the law through deliberate problems, deliberate openings left in the law, thanks to an incredibly underfunded law enforcement apparatus, thanks to incredibly strict libel laws.

2 (22m 17s):
That makes it very difficult for journalists to write about the rich and the powerful. And essentially none of those things have changed.

1 (22m 26s):
Oliver, can I ask you why an ordinary person British American or otherwise who's trying to pay a mortgage or get a kid through grade school or make it through a two hour commute should care that some people are extraordinarily rich and other people make a good living catering to them. Who's really getting hurt.

2 (22m 46s):
Yeah. It's a really important question. And you're right. It is a difficult one to answer. I think at the moment when everyone is watching on television, what the Russian oligarchy is doing to ordinary people in Ukraine, there is a visceral emotional response to that. And we can say who's getting hurt. Well, people just trying to be free in Ukraine are getting hurt, but obviously, you know, that doesn't have the same relevance to those of us in, in Western countries who aren't currently being bombed by the Russians. But I think the question is, is more about the difference between short-term benefit and long-term benefit. There is a short term benefit to Britain and to other countries from this money arriving in our economies, you know, it, it pays lawyers, it pays taxes and it looks good.

2 (23m 36s):
It flushes our balance sheet nationally, but in the longterm, what are we actually doing? What are we selling when we bring these people into our countries, Oligarchs, don't stop being oligarchs. When they get off the plane in London or JFK or wherever they want the same things that they want at home. They want preferential treatment before the law, they want to muzzle journalists. They want to be able to rig the economy and the political system in their favor. That's what they do. And they're going to keep trying to do that. So if we want to preserve democracy, which is, you know, what we inherited from our parents and our grandparents.

2 (24m 22s):
And we'd like to, certainly I would like to pass on to my children. Then we need to start thinking about what it is we're selling. If we're selling people preferential treatment, which is what Butler Britain does, right? We're selling people preferential treatment that is inherently antithetical to democracy. Because if some people have preferential treatment, you are not a democracy anymore. And so that's why I think everyone should care because essentially we're going to wake up one day and we're going to be living in an oligarchy too. And that is something that is the experience of Russia and Ukraine and lots of places show that once it's become established, it's very, very hard to establish that

1 (25m 18s):
Today's show was produced by miles Bryan. It was edited by Matthew collect. It was engineered by Paul mousey and it was fact-checked by Tori Domingus. I'm Noel king it's today explained.