1 (5s):
Tesla, do you wanna drive your ev? Well, that's too bad because it's cold. And when you haven't charged your battery no flattery, your car will feel old. It used to be such a good car, and now it's not. I wish Elon would tell me, why do you wanna drive your ev then you should have read the instructions. Go away, hottie. Okay,

2 (36s):
But we're gonna talk all about frozen EVs on today. Explained

3 (44s):
Some Tesla drivers learned the hard way about how cold weather impacts their battery life. All

4 (49s):
Of these vehicles right here, all of them have dead batteries.

5 (51s):
They tell you the charges are fast. It takes two hours to charge a car, bro,

1 (56s):
I can't even get in my Tesla

6 (58s):
And it's terrible.

‎The Gray Area  (60s):
Sean Ling here, host of the gray area. On our show, we delve into the ambiguities around the world's biggest questions, which is why I spoke with Maggie Jackson, who wrote a book about the joys of uncertainty. If we approach uncertainty, knowing it's a space of possibilities, then we, you know, roll up our sleeves and be present in the moment and start investigating and exploring. Hear more of our conversation on this week's, the gray area available wherever you get your podcasts.

TED Talks Daily (1m 31s):
Hey, today, explain listeners, If, you wanna add a little curiosity into your everyday routine? Check out Ted Talks daily. It's a podcast that brings you a new TED talk. Every weekday in fewer than 15 minutes, you'll go beyond the headlines. You'll hear about the big ideas shaping our future, coming up microbes, microbes that shape our minds, and how Gen Z, the Zoomers are creating tools for social change. Very cool guys. Also, much more you can listen to Ted Talks daily, wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (2m 2s):
Today explained

10 (2m 5s):
Now you say now Francis,

0 (2m 8s):
Today.

9 (2m 11s):
Good job.

1 (2m 12s):
We reached out to Andrew Hawkins from The Verge to find out what's going on with America's electric vehicles this winter.

11 (2m 19s):
Yeah, it's a, it's a tough situation out there for the, for the EV owners in this current weather environment that we have

3 (2m 27s):
Some Tesla drivers learn the hard way about how cold weather impacts their battery life. I've been here

12 (2m 33s):
For over five hours at this point, and I'm still have not got charged my car.

13 (2m 37s):
Yeah, this is crazy. It is. It's, it's a disaster

6 (2m 41s):
And it's a waiting game. It's a waiting game. It's a waiting game. And it's terrible.

11 (2m 44s):
We've known this for a very long time, but I think that, you know, with more people buying electric cars and sort of the, the numbers increasing out on the road, it, it becomes a, a new story every time. The weather turns cold.

0 (2m 58s):
Oh, we got a bunch of dead

14 (2m 59s):
Robots out here. Dead

11 (3m 0s):
Robots. People are sort of discovering for the first time that this is not exactly a perfect relationship between EVs and Sub-Zero temperatures.

15 (3m 9s):
Is this acceptable? No, not

16 (3m 10s):
At all. I mean, pay premium price, price for these Teslas

1 (3m 15s):
And for all the people who have the traditional combustion engine and can't imagine what we're talking about here. What are we talking about here? What goes wrong with EVs when it's cold outside?

11 (3m 26s):
The battery in particular loses some of its charge in the cold

17 (3m 31s):
Functioning, but energy draining fast,

11 (3m 35s):
It just starts to kind of sap its energy, its capacity and charging also becomes very complicated as well. They

5 (3m 43s):
Tell you the charges are fast, it takes two hours to charge a

11 (3m 46s):
Car. And the reason for this is that, you know, electric vehicle batteries are lithium ion batteries for the most part. They contain liquid electrolytes and liquid freezes in the cold. And so, you know, when you go to turn on your car and you've got a, a freezing cold battery with frozen liquid inside of it, it's not gonna perform in the same way that it would during normal temperatures or spring or summer temperatures. So the battery needs to basically get nice and toasty warm before it starts to cooperate. And that takes a little bit of time. Hmm. So I think what we're seeing out there right now is a lot of people who haven't allowed their battery to come to a proper temperature before attempting to charge it and then discovering sort of what problems that that actually entails when that happens.

1 (4m 31s):
And how do they respond when they make this discovery? Well,

11 (4m 34s):
They respond by, you know, freaking out and, you know, talking to various local reporters about their buyer's remorse and owning an electric vehicle

18 (4m 43s):
As far as the drive and everything, it's real nice. But not Chicago. Not Chicago. I couldn't do it.

11 (4m 49s):
It sucks. I totally get it. you know, you, you buy a futuristic car like Tesla Tesla, you expect to be having a certain ownership experience. And then when that sort of crashes into the reality of Sub-Zero temperatures, I can understand how that turns into a little bit of a, of a rude awakening for a lot of people. But I think as we saw in Chicago, there were, there was a lot of other factors that are going into this. It's not just people sort of without the proper education or understanding about how EVs operate in the cold. There was a lot, a lot of other things going on too.

1 (5m 20s):
What's going on in Chicago?

11 (5m 24s):
A couple things. First of all, there were a number of charging stations that were out of order, and that is a big problem. These

4 (5m 29s):
Cars are all dead batteries. That car is stranded, here comes another one. Hoping for something good to happen here. All of these vehicles right here, all of 'em have dead batteries because of those charging stations. They're not working.

11 (5m 42s):
It's a problem across the country. And, you know, ev chargers tend to break down. Sometimes we've seen the same was with, you know, with the, with the batteries in the cold. The charging equipment also tends to freeze as well. So we're seeing some chargers that were breaking down and not working. Has it been charging?

19 (5m 57s):
No, not at all. It just isn't working at all. It's just frozen. And so I'm now getting it towed to the Tesla service center because that's my only option at this point.

11 (6m 6s):
It was just chaos. And I think another factor that was going on here, and I really wanna shout out a number of outlets that did some really great reporting on this insight. EVs and the Utopian and outta spec reviews actually went down to Chicago and, and talked to people and checked out what was going on in the scene. And it turned out that a lot of the vehicles that were running outta battery capacity were owned by rideshare drivers, Uber and Lyft drivers. What's interesting about that is that those are probably gonna be the folks that are the least experienced with electric vehicles. I mean, they're operating under a number of different conditions. Uber and Lyft, the companies themselves are incentivizing drivers to switch to EVs by offering them more money for their trips if they drive in the electric vehicles.

11 (6m 49s):
There's also a lot of leasing programs for rideshare drivers that allows them to rent these cars for favorable rates.

6 (6m 57s):
I rent this through Uber and I'm really gonna take this back and see if they got gas cars.

11 (7m 1s):
So, you know, sort of having all of these factors come into place, you had sort of the perfect storm where all these cars were breaking down, the charging equipment wasn't working and the, you know, local reporters were there to shine a light on the whole thing. And obviously they don't really tend to mince words, you know, like they were talking about how the charging stations were turning into car graveyards

21 (7m 22s):
In Chicago, we have Tesla charging station graveyards because the cars can't charge in the very cold weather.

11 (7m 31s):
And that, you know, tends to sensationalize things a little bit. And I think it has the unfortunate side effect of probably turning a lot of people off to electric vehicles when I think in reality, most people who are buying electric vehicles, they're just gonna be doing most of their charging at home or at work. you know, I think If, you can own an ev like I I do myself. Oh, and go, you know, for months on end without visiting a public charger, you're gonna do fine. There's not gonna be any problems with, with your car, especially in the cold weather.

1 (8m 5s):
I wanna jump in here and just ask you, I mean it seems a little counterintuitive that ride share drivers, people who live in their cars are kind of surprised in the debt of Chicago winter to find out how the batteries function. Also, this is not the first winter we've had with electric cars. Why are we seeing so many videos on social media of drivers discovering how their cars work in cold weather? Yeah,

11 (8m 31s):
I think there's a number of things going on here. First of all, 2023 especially has been the year of the Tesla price cuts over the last 12 months or more. Tesla has dramatically reduced the price of its cars to the point where it's become extremely affordable for a lot of people. And that's, you know, when you're gonna start to see a lot more ride share drivers deciding that EVs are gonna be the right move for them. They want to cut gas prices out of their cost equations and they're ready to go full electric. But I think that, you know, a lot of that adoption is kind of going ahead of Where The charging infrastructure is, and we're still dealing with a lot of problems with software, with availability and with uptime, which is, you know, sort of like the amount of time that the charging station is actually operational.

1 (9m 18s):
Let's talk solutions like how do we have a happy and safe and warm and functional, you know, winter 2025 in Chicago,

11 (9m 29s):
If your car offers you the option to precondition the battery before you start charging and it's below freezing out there, that is the first thing that you need to do. You need to get that battery nice and toasty before it can start to accept any charge. Another thing that people could do is try not to rely on the public charging network as as much to do your charging If. you can charge at a a slower charger, for example, like a level two charger. You can charge at work, you can charge at home. You should definitely try to do that. But otherwise, you know, try to try to avoid those, those ultra fast DC fast chargers during the wintertime because not only are the lines gonna be long, but the charging is gonna be really, really slow.

11 (10m 10s):
But you know, that's, that's gonna be a challenge especially for the folks that live in, that live in dense cities. So I, I know that that's not really gonna be an option for a lot of people, especially for the folks that are rely on their, their EVs for work. Like, like rideshare drivers. And so I think maybe a solution there is that we need to start to see these rideshare companies start investing in the charging infrastructure as well.

1 (10m 46s):
Andrew Hawkins transportation editor at The Verge dot com. you know who could help with this freezing EV crisis in the United States. China will today explain when we're back

Ramp (11m 8s):
Support For today. Explain comes from ramp. If you're looking for a better way to do the finances for your business ramp, would like to suggest that you check out ramp. RAMP is a corporate card and spend management software designed to help you save time and put money back in your pocket. Here's what RAMP promises it can give your finance teams unparalleled control and insight into company spending. Issue cards with limits and restrictions. Automate your time consuming monthly expense reports. Ramps accounting software collects receipts, categorizes those expenses in real time. No more chasing down receipts or people. Whether you have five employees or 500 says ramp, it's easy to get set up with when you get set up. You can start making payments in less than 15 minutes and right now you can get 250 bucks when you join ramp. You can go to ramp.com/explained ramp.com/explained RA p.com/explained

Quince (12m 13s):
Support for today. Explained comes from Quince. Quince believes that your clothes can say a lot about you. Of course, high quality clothing can be very expensive. Quince believes that a well-made luxurious wardrobe shouldn't break your bank. They offer must-haves like leather, motorcycle jackets, elegant silk shirts, Mongolian cashmere sweaters. These are all must-haves for up to 80% less than similar brands. Sarah Frank, my colleague on the business Sidedo Things at Vox thinks this about Quince. I had the opportunity to test out a few Quince products and I was really drawn to their classic styles and fabrics. I was really impressed with the huge selection of cashmere available, whether sweaters, cardigans, or pants for just 50 to a hundred dollars. You can update your closet with Quince by going to Quince dot com slash explain for free shipping and 365 day returns on your order. That's Quince, that's Q-U-I-N-C e.com/explain to get free shipping and 365 day returns. Quince dot com slash explained.

TIAA (13m 21s):
TIAA is on a mission. Why? Because 54% of black Americans don't have enough savings to retire. So in collaboration with big name artists like Wyclef Jean, TIAA released paper Wright new music inspiring a new financial future with 100% of streaming sales, going to a nonprofit that teaches students how to invest stream paper Wright now and help close the gap

1 (13m 55s):
Today Explained is back Andrew Hawkins is gone. But Simon Wright from the Economist is here. He writes about EVs. He doesn't personally own one,

24 (14m 5s):
But I've driven quite a lot of EVs in the course of my job, including yesterday I drove the Rolls Royce Specter. Wow. And that was quite a lot of fun.

1 (14m 14s):
That sounds fancy. I did not know Rolls Royce had an EV on the market. They've

24 (14m 18s):
Got an EV on the market and if you've got 330,000 pounds to spare, it's not a bad EV to try give it a go.

1 (14m 27s):
Okay, so that's like the most expensive EV out there I imagine. What's on the cheaper end? What's on the opposite Sidedo? The spectrum.

24 (14m 33s):
Well I think that's what we're here to talk about today and that's probably going to be the Chinese, I know you've been discussing recharging and that's one of the reasons that people don't buy an ev. And what we've seen recently in America and and the rest of the world is a slowdown in growth of EV sales. Hmm. And that's partly because cost is still the major issue. It's affordability of EVs and that pretty much is Where The Chinese may well come in.

1 (15m 2s):
We reached out to Simon to talk about China's EVs because it seems like they're already a game changer there. And we wondered if they could end up being a game changer here. More Chinese EVs in America would mean more infrastructure. It would mean maybe fewer people with freezing cold cars in the winter. We asked them how EVs got so big and so cheap in China.

24 (15m 24s):
Well this is the thing the Chinese government decided many years ago that it wanted to be a power in the car making industry, but the Chinese realized they could never compete with the intricacies of the internal combustion engine, which these com companies have been developing for a hundred years. They really knew how to make internal combustion engine cars. Chinese domestic car makers outside the joint ventures made terrible cars. The Chinese governments saw a while ago that maybe EVs, they took a bit of a gamble. EVs was the way forward. So they brought in subsidies for buying EVs. They built up a battery supply chain. They, you know, bought in protection for domestic EV battery makers.

24 (16m 5s):
They did all kinds of things to promote EVs. And so now what we have is the Chinese car market, which is the world's biggest car market. They're the world's biggest car producer. They're now selling something like one in every three cars sold is an an electric vehicle or a plug, a plug-in vehicle at least maybe a hybrid. Wow. And most of those are Chinese.

1 (16m 28s):
I imagine the average American cannot name a Chinese automaker. Can you give us the, the menu? I

24 (16m 37s):
Bet you they could name one. They wouldn't realize that they would, they, they might name Volvo.

25 (16m 41s):
Volvo, a car you can believe in,

24 (16m 44s):
Which is of course owned by G, which is a Chinese company.

1 (16m 47s):
That's right, that's

24 (16m 48s):
Right. I mean they are, they're a European car company in the, in the, the sense that they're based in Europe. But they're, they're Chinese owned. But you know, you are absolutely right. They've yet to make much impression in America. But If, you came to London, you would see plenty of mgs on the road, which are from psych, one of the Chinese state-owned car companies.

26 (17m 7s):
What makes us human? Sometimes it feels like we've forgotten. Maybe we can learn again from someone who's been learning from us. Welcome.

27 (17m 17s):
Be

26 (17m 19s):
Hello MG

24 (17m 20s):
And increasingly we're going to see cars from BYD. We

27 (17m 23s):
Are A BYD. You've probably never heard of us. So we could tell you that we are one of the largest manufacturers of new energy vehicles in the world and our commitment to sustainable mobility. But hey, we know you just want drive a great electric car.

24 (17m 41s):
It's the biggest EV maker in China that sells the most EVs. And last quarter it overtook Tesla in sales of pure battery powered cars. It makes plug-in hybrids as well, but just for pure battery for our cars. It actually overtook Tesla in sales. So there's this, there's this extraordinary company, which in 2017 it was saying something like 400,000 cars a year, mainly internal combustion engine hit cars. Last year it sold 3 million cars and they were all either EVs or plugins. And in the last quarter of last year, I overtook Tesla in the global sales of pure battery powered cars, which is extraordinary.

24 (18m 22s):
The year before last, it sold something like 1.2 million. I don't think we've got a final figure, but it's, it's a little bit more than that maybe last year. But it's, it's, you know, it's considerably bigger than Tesla If. you count plugins as well as pure battery EVs. So it is got a remarkable journey and it's one of the powerhouses of the Chinese electric car market.

1 (18m 42s):
Tell me what a Chinese electric car looks like. Typically an MG or A-B-Y-D-I think when we think of a Tesla, we think of something that's very sleek, something that's very modern. What about the, what about the Chinese market?

24 (18m 54s):
Look, there's a enormous range of Chinese cars. That's the other thing that's going to, you know, why they're going to be able to take on OO on the global markets because they produce all kinds of cars, but they're pretty nicely styled. That's the thing. China has gone from making terrible cars to very nicely styled cars that are pretty cheap, have pretty good tech, and are really quite desirable.

1 (19m 16s):
So why aren't any of them in the United States?

24 (19m 18s):
They're not in the United States yet, although they've started to export to Europe and they have big plans because Europe is gonna be the main battleground in, in the near future for the Chinese. Ah, it's only in the last sort of three years that the EVs have really taken off in China. Up until then it was mainly fleet vehicles and government vehicles. But because these cars are now really quite snazzy, they look good and they're really very, very cheap. In China. They're Al, you know, A BYD is almost half the price in China. They're, they're selling in Europe. You can buy A BYD for sort of $12,000 or something like that.

1 (19m 51s):
12,000. That's the price of a used car.

24 (19m 54s):
What are their cheaper cars? Is something like that with Tesla drivers. The, the initial people who bought a Tesla, they were out there, they were making a statement about what they did. you know, these were expensive vehicles. We getting to the point where for the EV market to really take off, they just have to be like cars. Now in China, they're both as cheap as internal combustion engine cars. And arguably better because they have better tech. The driving is nicer. So the Chinese are just going out not to buy an ev, they're going out to buy a car that happens to be an ev And that's what we're going to see happening in the west. As long as the, the prices can come down sufficiently and the way those prices are gonna gonna come down two ways.

24 (20m 36s):
One through Chinese exports and eventually Chinese companies producing cars in the west. And secondly, through the competition, that's going to bring to the sort of foreign car makers, the who, whose lunch they want to eat.

1 (20m 49s):
Yeah. If these Chinese EVs arrive in Europe and arrive in the United States, are they still gonna cost $12,000 or are they gonna cost, you know, 2025 with taxes?

24 (20m 59s):
Now listen, at the moment, If, you look at the, the way the Chinese are pricing their cars and BYD again as an example, they're pricing them cheaper than the sort of cars they're competing with, the EVs they're competing with. But they've got a lot more wiggle room. I mean, they're making a profit and they could still make a profit by bringing prices down because China has built up this enormous EV market. They have scale in battery production, they dominate global battery production. Something like 70% of the world's EV batteries, which is one of the most expensive parts of a car come from China. They have the scale that's been built up in the Chinese domestic market where they've really, they're giving the foreign car companies a real kicking.

24 (21m 41s):
And by doing that they've managed to bring prices down. And that's, that's what we're seeing.

1 (21m 46s):
So you're saying there's a certain degree of inevitability here with Chinese auto manufacturers?

24 (21m 51s):
I think so. Look, if the question is should we worry about this? I we, if we look at the Japanese, and to a lesser extent the Koreans more recently, Where The Japanese did exactly the same thing. There was all these fears going around about a sort of influx of Japanese and taking over. Well it hasn't happened. The Japanese have a decent share of the market. No one's scared of the Japanese anymore. People in the US will readily buy a Toyota and those Toyotas are made in the US So one of the things that could happen when the Chinese localized production, okay, that will take market share away from Amer, from American car makers potentially, but also it would provide jobs in America. So it sort of swings in roundabouts. And that also brings, you know, local defenders for car companies that do that.

24 (22m 35s):
So as I say, we look at the Koreans and the, and the Japanese, an example. But what I would say is that it took decades for the Japanese and Koreans to do that. And they only really succeeded, succeeded when they did localize production in China. Everything's happening much, much faster. There's the, one of the big bosses of Volkswagen put it very neatly, but I've heard this referred to many, many times. They call it China speed. Hmm. And everything happens so much faster in China because I think because they have young people, they have these new companies, they can just move much faster because the software is so much more important.

1 (23m 9s):
And because their government is authoritarian,

24 (23m 11s):
Well may, well maybe So, I mean I think that authoritarian governments probably get in the way of things like this rather than aiding them. I really think it's the Chinese consumer that is pushing this China speed. And it means they bring out new models much, much more quickly. They up soft software much more quickly. They're just much more sort of versatile and flexible than western car makers that have for a hundred years they've been making the cars the same way. They have a model cycle that's sort of six or seven years that's just not gonna work in the new, in the new world of car making where car firms have gotta be more like Tesla or the Chinese. They've gotta be software firms and they've gotta be nimble and they've got to sort of respond to consumers much more quickly.

24 (23m 53s):
So I think it, I think we're gonna sort of see a big change in the car industry as a result of the Chinese and as a result of Tesla. Do

1 (24m 1s):
You think if you know America, American lawmakers, American automakers can get over their fear of Chinese automakers or whatever it might be, that China speed could expedite the transition to electrical to electric vehicles in this country and thus get us out of this winter rutt that we're in right now where people aren't savvy enough about how their cars work and maybe we don't have enough infrastructure to charge these vehicles.

24 (24m 33s):
Affordability is the key thing here. And cheap electric vehicles have two advantages. Cheap electric vehicles from China could have two advantages. One is they are cheaper so more people will be able to afford them. And secondly it'll make car companies more competitive. And look, the end point is very clear. We're gonna be a hundred percent electric some point in the future. Mm. And at some point sooner than that, electric cars are going to be a sticker price parity. Not entirely sure when, but it should be, you know, in a few years time. And, but they'll be much cheaper to run. So there'll be absolutely no reason not to buy an electric car at that point. So it sort of almost doesn't matter who makes them, they, we will be going electric and the infrastructure I think will have to catch up.

24 (25m 14s):
And I think it will catch up. I think we'll look back and wonder why we were worried about it so much. What we're seeing I think is, is teething troubles with infrastructure. Hmm. Electricity everywhere. It's, it's, it's not a hard thing to lamppost outside. My house was converted to an electric car charging point. I didn't even notice it happen. And that's just going to get more prevalent as more electric cars are on the roads I think. I think, you know, it is just a question of the elec, the charging people and the electric car sales getting in the right balance. And I think, I think we will, we will see that.

1 (25m 56s):
You know, it's funny 'cause all of this sounds like totally inevitable, but it still feels very far away that the lamppost outside my house gets converted into electric vehicle charger. But I cannot wait. Simon Wright is the industry editor at the Economist Economist dot com. The program today was produced by Haddi Mawajdeh. It was edited by Amina Aldi fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd. I'm Sean Ramas firm. This is today explained.

9 (26m 53s):
All right, we've reached the end of the show. You're still here. We put jokes in the credits just for people like you. Now all year we're gonna continue to bring clear and fact-check reporting to this election, to the stakes. And we would welcome your support by giving a monthly or annual contribution. You're gonna gain access to expressions of our gratitude members only newsletters q and as with Vox reporters, Sean will come to your home or office and more to be announced. Our explanatory journalism takes resources and your support is a critical part of sustaining this resource intensive work. You can support our work at today explained by going to Vox dot com slash give and contributing today.

9 (27m 34s):
There's also a link to give in the show notes now if this is not the right time for you, if things are economically tricky, we got you. We'll still be here for you. We'll be doing a show about the economy soon. And we thank you for your support in advance.