0 (1s):
We are literally terrified. All we hear is explosions and the sky is lighting as if it's rain and thunder. I'm watching and I see where the explosions are happening, and it's a place surrounding my neighborhood and in another area in the north of the Gaza Strip. And we don't know if we're gonna make it till the morning. We have six more hours for the sun to shine and rise, and it's very dark and the electricity is not as off, and it's a complete blackout.

2 (46s):
Hin Hodari, a Palestinian journalist in a voice memo there from Gaza on the night of October 27th. Coming up. On today, explained Gaza's Humanitarian crisis.

1 (60s):
And here's your prescription

3 (1m 2s):
I. know just the pharmacy to get this filled Who. are you A pharmacy benefit manager, A middleman, your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to.

1 (1m 15s):
Why can't I go to a pharmacy in my neighborhood?

3 (1m 17s):
Because I make more money. When. you go to a pharmacy I own

4 (1m 21s):
No, one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma dot org slash middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

5 (1m 30s):
I'm Jonn Hill And this week on the Weeds, a growing piece of the care crisis.

6 (1m 35s):
It used to be that there could be seven people to take care of each person, and that number is going down and down and down. So that has impacts for the people who need care and has impacts for the people who are giving that care too.

5 (1m 46s):
Millions of Americans are caretaking for children and aging loved ones. At the same time, it's difficult to bridge multiple care gaps and the policies that could fix it, listen and subscribe.

2 (2m 7s):
It's today explained. I'm no Will King Nick Schiffrin is the Foreign Affairs and Defense correspondent for the PBS NewsHour. I asked Nick to tell us, as the Israeli Defense Force says it's expanding ground operations in Gaza, how he would characterize the situation right now.

7 (2m 24s):
So generally, the Israeli instinct is to use walls of artillery and walls of tank fire in order to expand kind of a frontal assault. What the Americans have been pushing for is different tactics, a lot less artillery, more mortars, so basically smaller guns, less reservists who don't really particularly have the training to do this kind of warfare. And more special forces operators who are relatively more trained in this kind of urban combat that they're gonna face. So the idea here is that by using these tactics, the US hopes, there's fewer civilian casualties.

7 (3m 7s):
I think from the Israeli perspective, their priority is fewer Israeli casualties, and it also reserves a lot of their forces to be able to respond in case the northern front expands and, and Hezbollah decides to enter the war. So that's what we're seeing from the Israeli side. But Noel, it's, it's a given from the perspective of a Gaza resident, you know, who's been under constant aerial bombardment from Israeli Air Force, you know, all of this is a little bit moot. Their lives are, are upended regardless of the tactics the Israeli ground forces are using.

2 (3m 40s):
What have conditions been like in Gaza since this war started about three weeks ago? What are you hearing from your sources there?

7 (3m 46s):
It's catastrophic. It is catastrophic. you know, I think for any gazen parent, it is a nightmare. So many children have been killed, so many families have been killed. People who have left Gaza city with 1.1 million residents, by far the largest part of the strip moving south. A lot of them feel like they've been targeted by Israeli airstrikes in the very part of Gaza that Israel told them to flee to.

8 (4m 15s):
Since Saturday, October 7th, we've been here, we've received six warnings to evacuate the hospital. We told them identify safe places and we will leave the hospital. There's no safe place. Not in the South, nor in the whole of Gaza.

7 (4m 30s):
And you know, the perspective on this from the Israeli side is well, they're firing at Hamas rockets, which I personally have seen are fired from apartment complexes right next to hospitals, right next to hotels where foreigners typically stay and Hamas officials live in the neighborhood, in, in the communities. And these are high rises. So when you target one, you're gonna take down a high-rise with lots of families. But from the gazen person's perspective, from the family's perspective, who's trying to flee? It's, it's total catastrophe. No food, no water, no reliable safety whatsoever.

10 (5m 8s):
I wish God will have mercy on us. And the war stops. We've reached a state where we wish we had died under the rubble just to find some rest. Our life is torture.

2 (5m 17s):
The United Nations and others in the international community ha have expressed real concern about hospitals in Gaza. Why is that? Why is this a particular area of such concern?

7 (5m 28s):
Well, humanitarian law requires that hospitals are not targeted purposely. So the Israeli military by law is not allowed to target a hospital, period. Full stop. I think where the nuance comes in here is, is multiple ways. One, the humanity that is in the hospital goes way beyond just the scenes of the injured that we see every minute of every day. And also the use of hospitals as morgues. So many Goins don't feel safe in their neighborhoods, and therefore they flee to the hospitals. Hospitals have become shelters even though they're not equipped for that at all. So the parking lot of the hospital that suffered that explosion about a week ago where it seems like hundreds died, the hospital itself was undamaged by the explosion, which US officials believe was a, was a misfired rocket.

7 (6m 21s):
Israel says the same, but the parking lot was where these people were staying and hundreds died because the explosion in the parking lot.

2 (6m 30s):
What do civilians in Gaza need if this conflict is to continue

7 (6m 34s):
Everything? I mean, they, they need everything. I mean, they don't have reliable food, they don't have reliable water. So many Goins are drinking water from the Mediterranean Sea that is not desalinated because there's no power. And on top of that, they have no sense of safety. So it is on a scale that, that even gaza's have never experienced The Israeli decision to besiege Gaza to lay siege to gaza's daily life. That is what is making things extraordinarily difficult for everyone who lives in the strip. Even if you have fled south, the reliability of food water is very, very little.

7 (7m 18s):
And then for about 36 hours, they had no internet. They had no phone system at all. And that isn't just about like advertising to the world, what's going on that is calling the bakery, that is calling the neighbor saying, Hey, are you okay? Or God forbid, calling the ambulance system saying, can you pick up the wounded? And that was even unavailable for, for 36 hours. So it, it's, it's less about what Gaza's need going forward. It is what Gaza's need a hundred percent right now, and they need everything

11 (7m 48s):
Now. Every time we lose the connection, it is another form of horror. Basically, we just anticipate that any moment we could get attacked and bombed in our houses, and now even if we think of going south, there is no way to, we can't leave our houses. We, we just hear the bombs around us. And when we lose the service and the connection, we have absolutely no idea what's going around us, but we just anticipate what's going to happen. Lastly,

2 (8m 20s):
Nick can and will Israel continue fighting this war in this way? If the humanitarian situation in Gaza remains as cataclysmic as it is today, will the international community allow this?

7 (8m 37s):
You know, it's an interesting question to, to put at that angle because the answer to that question is, well, the international community has struggled to get Israel to do what it wants for decades. Israel doesn't particularly respect the UN or the EU or, or lots of international institutions because it feels, it believes that it has to act a certain way in its neighborhood. It has particular enemies who have particular traits and, and obviously Hamas showed its true colors on October the seventh with that terrorist attack. So it is less about whether the international community can do it as to whether the United States government, whether the president of the United States decides to put enough pressure on Israel to change its plans.

7 (9m 20s):
Right now, I think what we've seen is Israel responding to US suggestions will at some point the United States willingness to sit by and watch this erode. There's no evidence of that in Joe Biden's history. But, you know, there's a lot of people internally who want the policy to change. But the bottom line is that Israel believes it is fighting an existential war, and it needs to overwhelmingly destroy Hamas in order to prevent Iran from attacking Israel, from Hezbollah attacking Israel. So Israel's motivations are a complete total war that eliminates Hamas' political ability to run Gaza, let alone its military objectives.

7 (10m 4s):
Whether the United States facilitates that in the long run, I think it's way too early to tell, but most people in Washington and in Israel, the officials who are designing this, believe that this is gonna be a very long war.

2 (10m 27s):
That was Nick Shiffrin foreign affairs and defense correspondent for the PBS News Hour coming up, how to define what's happened in this war.

Pharma (10m 48s):
And here's your prescription I know just the pharmacy to get this filled Who. are you A pharmacy benefit manager, A middleman your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to. Why Can't I go to a pharmacy in my neighborhood? Because I make more money. When. you go to a pharmacy I own No, one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma dot org slash middleman to learn more paid for by pharma

Noom (11m 19s):
Support for today Explained comes from noom. There is a whole big weight loss. Industry can be hard to figure out what works for you. Noom wants to tell you a bit about noom. Noom uses science and personalization to try to help you manage your weight over the long term. Noom says that their psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors, and you can decide how Noom fits into your life and not the other way around. Noom offered a sample of 4,272 numer and 98% of them said Noom helped them change their habits and behaviors for good. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Vox, who, who works on the business side of things. She had a chance to try out Noom and tell us how it went. There were days where I was overeating based on my goal and days where I was undereating and Noom had a very clever way of also matching my mood to those days. So I could actually see after about a week that I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed and days that I'm more relaxed, I'm eating more and I know some people's habits are the opposite of that. You can sign up for a trial today@noom.com. That's NOO m.com to sign up for a trial today.

15 (12m 35s):
This is today it's flight.

2 (12m 41s):
Kenneth Roth is a visiting professor at Princeton School of Public and International Affairs. Ken, tell me why we're talking to you today. Tell me about your expertise.

16 (12m 51s):
Well, I ran human rights watch for almost three decades, and so I am experienced in monitoring and reporting on human rights violations around the world in some a hundred countries. I have spent extensive time reporting on both sides in the Israeli Palestinian conflict, and I have long specialized in applying international humanitarian law or the laws of war in conflict situations around the world.

2 (13m 24s):
What got you into this line of work?

16 (13m 26s):
I think my, my introduction to the evil the governments can do came from my father who grew up in Nazi Germany and fled Frankfurt as a 12 year old boy in July, 1938. So I kinda grew up with Hitler stories and, you know, had this very personal connection to these kinds of atrocities.

2 (13m 46s):
You have found yourself on the opposing end of several governments.

16 (13m 52s):
Oh, I, I Governments hate me. I mean, just to put this in perspective, you know, I have been personally sanctioned by both the Chinese government and the Russian government, which I take as a badge of honor. you know, I have been blocked at the border in Hong Kong and in Egypt, the Randan government, the Sadi government. I mean, there's a long list of governments who, you know, clearly personally dislike me.

2 (14m 15s):
Now, I'm gonna note here that Ken Roth has been critical of the Israeli government. And earlier this year he publicly said that a fellowship he'd expected to receive from Harvard's Kennedy school was revoked because of comments he made about Israel. I asked him to tell me what happened

16 (14m 31s):
When I announced about a year ago that I was, I'm going to be stepping down from human rights watch. I got a phone call from friends that the Car Center for Human Rights Policy, which is part of the Harvard Kennedy School, asking whe whether I would be interested in going there as a senior fellow to work on a book that I'm, I'm in the process of finishing. And we talked about it and in principle I agreed it was all contingent on approval by the dean of the Kennedy School, Douglas Almanor. And we had a chat over the summer, what I thought would be just proforma. He asked me though, you know, similar to what you asked me, do I have any enemies?

16 (15m 10s):
And you know, among the enemies I mentioned was, you know, that the Israeli government doesn't like me either. And a couple weeks later I got this phone call from the car center sheepishly telling me that the dean had vetoed my fellowship because of my criticism of Israel. Now when word of this got public, there was a huge outcry not only in the media, actually around the world, but also on the Harvard campus where students, faculty, alumni were outraged. And so after about two weeks of uproar, the dean reversed himself. I was granted the fellowship and I'm actually still a senior fellow at Harvard. Although this past September I began working also as a visiting professor at Princeton School of Public and International Affairs

2 (15m 55s):
As the head of Human Rights watch. What was your position, the organization's position on the Israeli government that made the Israeli government feel as though you were a fierce critic of theirs?

16 (16m 8s):
Well, in any conflict situation, human rights watch, as a matter of principle, always reports on both sides. In the case of Israel, that required, you know, not simply looking at Israeli government conduct, but also at the conduct of, of Hamas the Palestinian authority. Hezbollah periodically when there was conflict there. And, and we did that and we reported as factually and conscientiously as we could. But inevitably that required criticizing the Israeli government not only the way they conducted wars, but also between wars, the way they treated the Palestinian civilian population in the occupied territory, where reluctantly a couple of years ago, we concluded that the Israeli government was imposing apartheid on the millions of Palestinians in the occupied territory.

16 (16m 58s):
I should add that Humanized watch was, was the first major international group to reach that conclusion. But every serious human rights group that has looked at the issue has come to the same conclusion.

2 (17m 9s):
Is there a legal definition of apartheid, Ken?

16 (17m 12s):
Yes, there is. And indeed we made it quite clear that we were not simply making an historical analogy to South Africa, but rather we were applying international law. And in essence, what it requires is an intention by one racial, ethnic religious group to dominate another. And then systematic oppression coupled with instances of that repression in practice. And in the case of Israel and Palestine, we found that they came together all three elements in the occupied territory. you know, we're not just a group with an opinion. There are lots of groups with opinions.

16 (17m 52s):
Rather, we begin by conducting, you know, detailed factual research, ideally going to the scene of the crime if not speaking to people who were there. But then the standards that we apply are the standards of international human rights or humanitarian law.

2 (18m 8s):
The Secretary General of the United Nations, Antonio Gutierrez says,

17 (18m 12s):
I'm deeply concerned about the clear violations of international humanitarian law that we are witnessing in Gaza.

2 (18m 18s):
What are the international laws we're talking about here? And who has to abide by those laws?

16 (18m 25s):
Well, let me start with the second part of your question because every party to an armed conflict must abide both by those rules. Governments ratify these treaties. So, you know, Israel or in this case the Palestinian authority too, because the UN General Assembly is recognized Palestine as a non-member state. So it too has, has joined these treaties. But once the government for a relevant territory is committed, these rules then bind any armed force. And so, you know, you often have a rebel group, you know, like Hamas, which doesn't have any international status, but it nonetheless is bound by these rules.

16 (19m 7s):
The rules, you know, are complicated in a sense. I mean, there are hundreds of pages, but they really are simple in their essence. One is you can't deliberately target or kill civilians. And so you know what Hamas did on October 7th, you know, going into Israeli territory and, and randomly killing as many Israeli civilians as they possibly could. Clear war crime. Not even a question, you know, similarly abducting civilians back into Gaza, a blatant war crime. The indiscriminate firing of rockets by Hamas or Islam jihad into civilian populated areas in Israel is also a war crime.

16 (19m 50s):
Now a basic rule of of humanitarian law is that war crimes by one side do not justify war crimes by the other. And so Israel is bound by these rules even though Hamas has flouted them. And then when you look at Israeli conduct a few of the relevant rules, you know, one is that you're not allowed to fire indiscriminately into a civilian populated area. And so what that means is that, you know, there may well be a military target in this area. you know, you could have a, you know, a, a group of Hamas troops there, you could have a Hamas command post, whatever it is, you have a duty to target them.

16 (20m 31s):
Specifically, you can't fire upon a whole area. The flattening of certain neighborhoods in Gaza suggests that the Israeli government is not abiding by that rule. Another rule is that even if you are targeting a military target, you cannot fire if the harm to civilians will be disproportionate. And so to give an example of that, the Israeli government has been bombing and destroying huge apartment buildings. These look like, you know, clearly disproportionate attacks because in one fell swoop you have a hundred families who are homeless.

16 (21m 16s):
There is also a rule which the Israeli governments just ignoring, which requires allowing access to humanitarian aid for a civilian population in need. And there's no question that the Palestinian civilian population of Gaza is in need. They're suffering huge bombardment. They've been under a blockade for 16 years. And since basically the beginning of this current conflict, the Israeli government has imposed a siege blocking all access to food, water, fuel, and electricity, as well as medical supplies. And they have, you know, in the last few days allowed in drips and drabs of aid.

16 (21m 58s):
But this aid is, you know, less than what the UN says is the minimum required for the needy civilian population of Gaza. So, you know, here again, there seems to be a clear violation on, on the Israeli government's part. One final thing worth noting is that humanitarian law requires warring parties to give what's known as effective advance warning in the case of an attack, if possible. What the Israeli government did is to say, everybody in northern Gaza get out, evacuate South, 1.1 million people uproot your lives and move.

16 (22m 40s):
Now there is, you know, no place in Southern Gaza for them to go. They're trying to move in with friends and relatives. Southern Gaza is subject to the same siege as Northern Gaza. And to make it worse, there have been instances of the Israeli military bombing the route south. And there have been many cases of bombs in the South where the Israeli government is told Palestinian civilians from Northern Gaza to congregate. So this has been a hugely problematic matter.

2 (23m 9s):
You wrote an opinion piece in the Guardian newspaper in which you said Israel may quote, begin an illegal process of ethnic cleansing. Is there a legal definition for ethnic cleansing? And if so, what is it?

16 (23m 24s):
No ethnic cleansing is, is a, is just a term applied in these circumstances. The, the legal definition is forced deportation, which is a crime. It's something for example, that the International criminal court is currently actively investigating. In the case of Myanmar for what the Myanmar military did through Rohingya, by basically using violence to force 730,000 Rohingya next door into Bangladesh.

2 (23m 53s):
Okay, so when, when you write Israel may begin a pro, an illegal process of ethnic cleansing. Ethnic cleansing is not a legal term, but you are saying, I am concerned about something and that something is what exactly?

16 (24m 9s):
So when I say, you know, illegal ethnic cleansing, I mean if they do ethnic cleansing, if they really do chase people into Egypt, that will be a crime. And the technical crime is forced deportation.

2 (24m 18s):
We are in the third week of this war, the Israeli government says more than 1400 people were killed by Hamas. In this attack on October 7th, the Gaza Health Ministry says Israel's response has led to a death toll in Gaza of around 8,005 people. It says more than a third of those are kids. Now Palestinians and pro-Palestinian activists are saying this death toll to them means that this is a genocide. Turkey's president Jitt Erdowan said quote, this is a mounting to genocide. Genocide is a legal term as I understand it. What does it mean? Well,

16 (24m 57s):
The definition of genocide is an intent to eradicate a national, ethnic, religious, or racial group using a variety of means, including murder as such. And to eradicate, I should say in whole or in part is the definition. Now as you set forth the numbers like that, there is a difficulty with that numbers game. Under humanitarian law, the gross numbers are not really the answer. You have to look attack by attack. And I think the reason that, you know, people do feel myself included, that the Israeli military is violating humanitarian law is when you look at the way the bombing is being conducted, you know, flattening entire neighborhoods or you know, attacking these huge apartment buildings, which seems to be a disproportionate attack.

16 (25m 48s):
And obviously the siege is only making matters worse because the death toll inevitably is gonna rise as hospitals lack the fuel for their generators as they lack the basic medical supplies to keep an injured or otherwise medically needy population alive. So there are many elements of what the Israeli government is doing, which are wrongful contributions to the civilian toll. And humanitarian law really requires that kind of more refined assessment rather than just the gross numbers game.

2 (26m 22s):
I think I hear you saying at this moment in your view, Israel's actions in Gaza are not genocidal, not by the legal definition of the term. I

16 (26m 32s):
Tend to restrict my use of the term genocide to situations where there really are large numbers. you know, something like what happened in Bosnia, what happened in Rwanda, conceivably even what's going on in Ukraine today. but I, I tend to be conservative before I jump to the conclusion that there is a genocide. you know, sadly, there's this sort of tendency toward rhetorical inflation, which I find unhelpful. 'cause oftentimes people feel that, oh, unless I call it a genocide, it's not really serious and that's completely wrong. you know, war crimes are completely, totally serious. It should be bad enough to spotlight the war crimes that are taking place.

2 (27m 22s):
Ken Roth, he led human rights watch for almost 30 years. Halima s Shah and Haddi Mawajdeh produced today's episode, Amina El Sadi and Miranda Kennedy edited it. Serena Solin and Laura Bullard fact checked and Patrick Boyd engineered, I'm Noel King. It's today explained.