1 (3s):
The day 83 year old Stenny Hoyer of Maryland, was reelected to Congress this month. He tweeted a link to his op-ed about Democrats putting hashtag people over politics. 84 year old Maxine Waters of California waited three days to tweet, then sent a message on Veterans Day. 85 year old Bill Parell of New Jersey thanked the people of the greatest state in America, hashtag Jersey strong. And 25 year old Maxwell, Alejandro Frost of Florida tweeted in all caps. I'm gonna see at the 1975 on Thursday to celebrate lots of exclamation points. It'll be a while before we know exactly what role young voters played in the 2022 midterms, but one of them won an election coming up on today, explained an interview with Florida's Gen Z congressman.

Financial Times (59s):
Support for the program today comes from the Financial Times, better known by their friends as the ft. They know that quality journalism matters, and that's why they aim to cover important issues with breadth and depth. The FT covers topics outside of finance and markets, just in case you're wondering, they, they touch on stories that impact not only your career, but your life and the wider world as well. It's a big wide world. You can visit ft.com/today to read free articles and save 50% off an annual digital subscription

3 (1m 37s):
Vultures TV critics spend a lot of time looking for the best tv, which in 2022 has been hard.

4 (1m 44s):
There was certainly a lot of TV more than anyone could humanly watch, but then every so often there would be yes, many nights where I would say like, is there just a law and order from 20 years ago that I could watch

3 (1m 57s):
The best TV of the year? And why it's so difficult to find something to watch this week on Intuit Vulture's pop culture podcast

0 (2m 14s):
Today? Today. Excellent.

5 (2m 18s):
My name is Maxwell Alejandro Frost. I'm the Democrat nominee for Congress in Florida's 10th Congressional district.

1 (2m 24s):
And congratulations to you. And what year were

5 (2m 27s):
You born? 1997.

1 (2m 29s):
1997. Alright. So you're the first member of Generation Z elected to Congress. Yes. How do you

5 (2m 33s):
Feel? I feel great. You know, it's all the emotions at once, you know, I feel incredibly blessed. You know, we had hundreds of people who really came together to be a part of this movement and really make this win possible. And then also, you know, the, the, the, the pressures of just getting the office ready and just ensuring that we're all good for January, so it can really serve the people immediately.

1 (2m 59s):
You're in Washington DC this week doing orientation?

5 (3m 2s):
Yes. Yep.

1 (3m 3s):
What's one thing about orientation that you think you'll never forget? One experience.

5 (3m 8s):
Hmm. I, I think the connections I'm making and just being able to make some really great friendships. You know, we have such a diverse, at least on the Democratic side, it's such a diverse and young class of people. People like Greg Kassar and Austin, Texas, or Deli Ramirez, Jasmine Crockett, summer Lee. I mean, I could, I could go on forever really. And so it's just really exciting to, to build these strong relationships. And we're talking about, we're already kind of scheming, right? Like, how are we gonna work together to provide for people back at home, but also shift the narrative

1 (3m 39s):
After the midterms? I was talking to a man who spent many years on Capitol Hill many years ago, and he's in academia now, and I asked him what he thought you might encounter, and he said, well, no one is gonna believe that he's in Congress. Referring to your age, of course, have you experienced any of that? Anyone saying like, son, what are you doing here? Yeah,

5 (3m 57s):
Well, not, not from members, but I've had, I've counted five times now that I've been stopped and told like, oh, this is a member's line or this, this and that, but it's okay. I don't really hold it against people too much. I mean, it is, the fact of the matter is it is abnormal for a 25 year old to be in the halls of Congress as a member. And so, you know, I'm, I'm one of many folks, hopefully, and young folks that'll help change that stigma. But it was actually funny. I think it was yesterday, the day before, I'm blurring the days, but I was walking into a building and was walking through the member line, which we're allowed to do with our id, and the guy was like, oh, hey, that's for members. You gotta come through here. And I was like, oh, I'm a member elect. I showed him my ID and he was like, wait, let me see it.

5 (4m 36s):
And then he looked at it and then him and like the other guard looked at it and they started like cheering and they were like, oh my God, you're so young. And he's black only in America. Like, you know, they were like jumping up and down and clapping and it was actually really cool. It was really sweet, you know, it was funny. What

1 (4m 52s):
Did you feel like when you heard

5 (4m 53s):
That? I, I started jumping with them. I was like, yeah, we're here. We made it. You know? And you know, I think that feeling that, that they had those guards is really the feeling that hopefully a lot of people across the country have had when, again, not just my election, but the election of just really great young people, especially young people of color coming into freshman class,

1 (5m 14s):
The average age in the House of Representatives is 59 ish, so you're gonna be very young compared to many of your colleagues. And I wonder, what do you think the challenges will be having colleagues who are on the whole just a lot older than you?

5 (5m 28s):
The, the great thing is a lot of my colleagues are really just excited to have me there. Something that Speaker Pelosi told me just a few days after, one, my primary is that it's gonna be really a breath of fresh air to have young, young people in the caucus. And so I'm really excited about it. You know, I think there's oftentimes where people will maybe not take me as seriously or look down on me, but that's something I'm used to, right? I mean, I've been working full-time in politics and straight outta high school. I'm at 18 years old and I've always been the youngest person in the, the room. I've managed people twice my age. I mean, so I've, I've always been really navigating this dynamic and even though it's at a whole new level now in the United States Congress, I, you know, I'm ready for it.

1 (6m 9s):
How did you get your start at 18?

5 (6m 12s):
So actually, my start was actually at 15, 15, 18 is when I eighteen's really when it kind of became my career, right when I started, when I started my first full-time job as an organizer. But what, how I really got involved was 10 years ago was the Sandy Hook, shooting, breaking news. I'm a band nerd. I went to a high school and middle school that was a arts high school, middle school, and I played jazz drums. So before every jazz band concert, my best friends and I would go to this restaurant across the street, we'd load up on a ton of junk food. And I remember we're there eating and there was a kind of silence that fell across the entire restaurant. We looked around, looked at each other, and finally looked up and saw that somebody walked into an elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut and murdered 20 children and three teachers.

5 (6m 57s):
And you know, for me, it had a insane impact on my life. I couldn't think straight. And I ended up going to the memorial in Washington DC here, and it was there that I met a guy named Matthew Soto Matthew's sister. Vicki was one of the teachers at Sandy Hook that lost her life. And seeing Matthew crying and talking about how much he missed his sister seeing a at the time he was 16, seeing a 16 year old with the demeanor of a 60 year old just completely changed my life forever. And it was, you know, I went straight to my hotel room and I dedicated the rest of my life to fighting for a world where no one would have to feel the pain that I saw in Matthew's eyes. And for me, that really is really what changed everything for me.

1 (7m 40s):
Organizing and being a politician, as you well know at this point, are two very different things. Why did you decide that you wanted to go into politics? Which in a lot of ways, I would guess could be much harder.

5 (7m 50s):
Yeah, well, you know, for me, and also earlier I said it was three teachers, six teachers that were, that were killed at Sandy Hook. You know, for me, I actually think organizing and legislating and being a, being a member of Congress are actually a lot more similar than we, than we think it is, right? I mean, you know, the, the whole, the crux of what we do up here is work to pass legislation. To do it, you have to get buy-in from your colleagues, and you have to sometimes work with people across the aisle as well. Organizing, it's all about bringing people together around a common shared value for specific outcome and asking them to take action. It could be knocking doors, it could be protesting. In this case it's casting a ballot, casting a vote, and asking them to also help you inspire other people to be involved as well.

5 (8m 31s):
So I think that's part of the reason we could use more organizers in Congress. Maybe we get some more things done. And also outside of just legislating, which is obviously one of our main functions, but another ma you know, big function of a member of Congress is to be a community leader, to build power in the community and to help shift the narrative and really use the bully pulpit to change the way people think about these issues. I think about someone like Representative Corey Bush, that when they took, took out the evictions moratorium, she knew what it was like to sleep on the streets and she slept on the capitol steps. And because of her advocacy, it was extended and people stayed in their homes, right? And so there's ways to also be creative about things.

1 (9m 10s):
You will represent the 10th Congressional District of Florida. What do you think your constituents elected you to do? How'd

5 (9m 17s):
You win? If you go to our platform, the platform is really a love letter to our community, right? We, we spent time in the community, found out what the main issues were, and provided bold transformational solutions to get the world that we wanna live in. And look, everyone understands we're not gonna get those solutions passed next year or tomorrow, right? I think voters and people understand that, that we live in a system that, you know, works slowly at times, but we don't, we can't know what step to take if we don't know where, where, where our destination is, right? And that's why I think it's important that leaders, politicians are unafraid of talking about what it means to live in a country where everybody has healthcare, what it means to live in a country where we are, you know, taking significant action to combat the climate crisis, to end gun violence, to ensure people have a drivable wage housing as a human right.

5 (10m 8s):
These things are really important to talk about, because for me, it's not about, when you talk about it that way, it's not left versus right. It's not Republicans versus Democrats, the people versus the problem. And the fact of the matter is, we had a lot of problems going on right now. People are, are having trouble living. We, we live in a country where just so many people have so little, and then there's a smaller group of people who have so much. And that creates this, this system that we're in now where people, especially our most vulnerable communities, the the resources they need to tap into the opportunity our country has. Yes, our country has immense opportunity, but the fact of the matter is you need resources to tap into a lot of that opportunity.

1 (10m 46s):
The results of the 2022 midterms and the results of the past couple of years suggest that Florida is becoming a red state. It used to be a swing state when you were young, it was one of the swingy states. What do you think the Democratic party is doing wrong? How is it losing Florida?

5 (11m 1s):
Sometimes, especially in Florida, these de democratic campaigns end up being campaigns of just rebutting Republicans, right? Republicans call you this name, you spend a million dollars on a commercial that says, I'm not that Republicans say you do, you, you believe this, you spend a million dollars on commercial saying you didn't do that. And so we spend so much time talking about what we're not and don't spend as much time talking about what we are and what we believe in. And what I found in my organizing is people are more apt and excited to vote for you if they have something to believe in. We had a lot of candidates focusing on talking about what they're not and what they are. And, and we did have this year where Republicans really had a good year, and it was very, it was bittersweet for me to be honest, election night, because I obviously had my win and my historic win, but we lost a lot of great people in our state legislature.

5 (11m 47s):
And so there's just a lot of work to do in Florida, but we ca we cannot give up.

1 (11m 50s):
When you were campaigning, you talked a lot about love, which was interesting. It's not a word you hear all the time on political campaigns, and you talked about thinking beyond partisanship. Now research has shown that a lot of millennials refuse to run for office because of the perceived toxicity of Congress, the partisanship, the fights, the refusing to work across the aisle. You seem like a very optimistic man. How are you gonna deal with gridlock and partisanship and just straight negativity?

5 (12m 19s):
Yeah, I mean, and, and Congress is toxic, right?

1 (12m 22s):
Oh, you agree? Okay.

5 (12m 23s):
Yeah, yeah. I mean, no, we, we know this, right? I mean, you know, and it's something I've had this square, I'm going into a system that has caused a lot of harm historically. But I also think to give up on government as a path towards the world we want is to almost give up on our greatest tool that we have as far as being able to make the change. And that comes as an organizer, I think we have to use every tool in our toolbox. We gotta vote, we gotta protest, we gotta be involved in our arts and culture because that changes the way that our society thinks about these issues. And we also gotta engage in mutual aid so we can take care of each other despite the problems that we're in. You know, the interesting thing about Congress that I, I was just talking with a colleague about this, a few, like on Monday night we were at a dinner and I noticed that part, you know, intense divide and partisanship is even built into the operation of Congress, right?

5 (13m 14s):
The way that it operates, you know, there's different cloak rooms. Republicans sit on one side, Democrats sit on the other side. The, at this orientation, we have different dinners every night that are separated from, you know, the being together. There's not really as of yet been bipartisan things that we've done besides the lec, like the classes that we're sitting in, which we're not really talking to each other. We're trying to like pay attention to what's being said. All these sort of things are interesting because I think it really even subconsciously continues to sow in the divide that we have right now, which is unfortunate. And obviously, look, I'm really new here and I think, you know, there's obviously traditions in everything like that, but even just being a new member and walking through orientation, yeah, I can tell, you know, some of the reasons why there's so much divide.

5 (14m 1s):
I mean, things are just divided even in the operation of the way Congress works. You know, the other thing I'll say is, look, we, the part of the reason why these times are becoming even more divided is there's a specific reason. I mean, we have a far right maga movement, far right wing movement that is saying, if you have a problem, they're scapegoating every vulnerable community for every problem there is. And that is real division. You know, it's hard to come to the table with someone who doesn't respect your humanity. You know, imagine being a, a queer legislator and coming into this body or being a trans legislate le legislator and coming into this body, having to sit across from someone and talk about issues.

5 (14m 45s):
Who doesn't value your existence as a human? It's very difficult. And, and, and that's something that we have to square and figure out. You know, I think bipartisanship is incredibly important. It's compromise is part of governing. That's what happens when you have a body of 435 people and you stuff 'em in a, in a chamber and you tell 'em to work together. They gotta kind of work together. But we also have to, we also have to be very frank about the dangers looming in, in government right now and this threat against our democracy, which is really this far right movement that, that doesn't wanna work with other people, that wants to blame everybody else for all the problems that are going on. And once the look working class people in the face and tell them that the source of their problem isn't the people who are making the most money or the people who who have traditionally had the most, but it's their fellow neighbor who might look different than them.

5 (15m 39s):
And for that, you know, that is, that's why culture and art is so important in, in this, in the political work. We have to really pierce that and, and get straight to the humanity of people and just talk about the fact that we're all part of this grand mosaic of humanity. And you can eat and I can eat right, you can succeed, and I can succeed. In fact, ours, our successes are really tied together. And, and that message I, I've seen at strike a chord with Republicans, with democrats, with progressives, with moderates, with all the all different types of people in my district. And that's the message that I think is a winning one.

1 (16m 20s):
Congressman elect Maxwell Frost, thank you so much for

2 (16m 23s):
Being here.

5 (16m 24s):
Of course, thank you so much for having me.

0 (16m 35s):
You

ClickUp (16m 40s):
Support for this show today comes from click up. And though I will admit I've never used it, I do have something in common with click up, which is, I think we're both obsessed with productivity. Good thing. I work for a daily new show, plenty to do. Click Up is a productivity platform designed to save you a full day every week. That means more time for clients, for meetings, for eating snacks. Who doesn't love snacks? Here's how it works. Click up houses all your projects and documents and goals and spreadsheets and anything else you need for work in one place. So you're gonna spend less time clicking between all your tabs and your different programs you're running. You can help your team of 10 plus be more efficient and productive with Click Up. Listeners can use the code. Explain to get 15% off click ups, massive unlimited plan for a year, meaning you can start reclaiming your time for under $5 a month. You can sign up today@clickup.com with the code explained.

0 (17m 45s):
Okay, so we'll open the champagne. So

6 (17m 49s):
When you're in sommelier school, they teach you that the pop shouldn't be no louder than a nun's fart.

7 (17m 56s):
A pop that's no louder than a nun's fart. That's the sound. That means there's gonna be a celebration

8 (18m 2s):
That's right around the world. December is often party time and we here at Gastropod are celebrating in style.

7 (18m 8s):
We've got a two-part special mini-series for you this month with the stories behind two of these special occasion treats Caviar. And of course Champagne

8 (18m 17s):
Gastaut is the podcast that looks at food through the lens of science and history. So we are going to get to the bottom of why the eggs from a massive dinosaur looking freshwater fish are one of the most expensive foods in the world.

7 (18m 29s):
M y Champaign is in a different league to other fizzy wines like Kava and Prosecco.

8 (18m 34s):
We also discover why Champaigns bubbles were originally considered a flaw and how to give a sturgeon an ultrasound.

7 (18m 40s):
Come join the party, find Gastropod and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

1 (18m 52s):
Today explained, we're back with Maron Kogan. She's a senior correspondent at Vox and Maron. We now know what counts as a youth congressman, what counts as a youth voter.

9 (18m 60s):
Generally we're talking about voters 18 to 29

1 (19m 3s):
And what do we know about what youth voters meant to and in and for the 2022 midterms.

9 (19m 10s):
So there's some early disagreement over whether these young voters swung elections or whether they played a more modest role. One thing we know for sure is that they strongly favored democratic candidates and that, you know, this is the second highest turnout that this age group has had in at least 30 years, just second to 2018 when about 31% of them showed up. In this case, about 27% of them showed up. And there is some evidence to suggest that in really key races across the country, that strong preference that they have for Democrats might have tipped some candidates over the edge in key races and given Democrats hard won victories.

9 (19m 50s):
These estimates are all based on exit polls, some of which speak to voters as they're coming out from the polls and some of which don't. It's not actually solid data on how people voted. The census will release more solid data on voting behavior, but it often takes weeks or months to get that. And the numbers that we have now will be revised when we get that more solid data. There is strong evidence in places like Pennsylvania. Young voters strongly preferred John Federman. It looks like they preferred him 70% to his opponent's, 28%.

9 (20m 31s):
And that case Federman won the race by about 4%.

10 (20m 34s):
Huge breaking news, Democrat John Federman has won the Senate race in Pennsylvania. Folks, this is amazing news for the Democratic Party. This was also a democratic pickup. Previously Republicans held the seat seat, but now it's flipped to the Democrats and John Federman

9 (20m 50s):
In the Wisconsin Governor's race, it was the same deal. 70% preferred Tony Evers the incumbent Democrat over his Republican opponent. He won by about 3%.

11 (20m 59s):
Y'all compared to 2018, the Wisconsin youth vote is up 360%. It's happening.

9 (21m 7s):
It also appears that young voters strongly prefer the Democrats in Arizona who are running for Senator and Governor. And ultimately both of those candidates we now know Mark Kelly and Katie Hobbs won. Hey

12 (21m 19s):
Carrie Lake, my name's Katie. Just wanna let you know I'm gonna go drop off my ballot and I'm not voting for you cuz you're kind of a douchebag, but yep, no conspiracy, no fraud, just not voting for you.

9 (21m 35s):
So there is evidence to suggest that they strongly prefer the Democrats in these key races. And where they did prefer those Democrats, they narrowly won their elections.

1 (21m 46s):
Do young people traditionally strongly prefer Democrats like was 2022 different?

9 (21m 51s):
So this is a somewhat new trend, but there is evidence that these voters are more solidly liberal than previous generations were at their age. So if you go back and you look at elections in the late nineties and early two thousands, for example, it was a much more even split with young voters. It was pretty evenly split between Democrats and Republicans. That divide in young voters preferring Democrats really opened up in 2004 and 2008. And that divide has been growing since. But what we've seen in the last 20 years is that more young voters now who are strongly preferring Democrats,

1 (22m 26s):
Do we know why?

9 (22m 27s):
I think it's because some of the issues that these young voters are ranking as their top choice issues and the issues that motivate them and get them to the polls are climate change and issues like gun reform. And, and you know, those are two issues where there is a really stark divide in terms of what each party is offering or saying about those issues.

1 (22m 47s):
By what margin do people under 30 preferred Democrats?

9 (22m 51s):
Yeah, so the estimates are that 63% of young voters preferred Democrats,

1 (22m 57s):
63% of young voters preferred Democrats. It's not an overwhelming number,

9 (23m 1s):
It's not an overwhelming number, but when you start to break it down, those divides get even more stark. And it, it is basically across every category of young voters. So white young voters, black young voters, Latino young voters, Asian young voters, men, women, they all favor democratic candidates. But when you break it down even further, you know, an estimated 87% of black young voters voted for Democrats. 67% of of Latino youth favored Democrats. It's even smaller for white voters. They were about 57% for Democrats. But you know, this, this generation, both of these generations, millennials and Gen Z are larger and they're much more diverse.

9 (23m 42s):
So if there are more than voting, it can be a real boon. For Democrats,

13 (23m 46s):
We would've had a, a red wave actually, if not for younger people, between 40 and 49 year olds, Republicans won by seven points, 50 to 64 year olds. They won by nine points and they won by 12 points among people over the age of 65. That's a red wave, but it's a red wave among baby boomers.

1 (24m 1s):
Maron. If it's the case that more young voters turned out in 2018, why is everyone making such a big deal about turnout this year?

9 (24m 9s):
I think the major reason that you're seeing all of this excitement is because Democrats do recognize that this is a huge potential source of electoral power for them. And that if young voters turn out, they can become an incredibly important voting block with the power to transform our politics. So, so some of the excitement is about the fact that there is huge power when this group de decides to vote. And I think there's excitement about getting more of them to vote in future elections.

1 (24m 34s):
And so what is the Republican party response to this?

9 (24m 37s):
I think you're gonna see a lot of soul searching in the months ahead about how to win these voters.

14 (24m 42s):
It should have been one of the biggest red waves we've ever had because, you know, the President Biden's approval rating was so low, one of the lowest, historically, more than 70% of the people thought the country was going in the wrong direction. And yet we still didn't perform.

9 (24m 57s):
Frankly, I think it's going to be very hard, you know, the issues that these young voters rank as their priorities, climate change and gun control are one for the Republican party is not offering them much. And, and another thing that a lot of young voters cited was abortion. So you have one party who is actively trying to restrict reproductive rights and you have another that's vowing to try to protect them. There's not a lot that republicans are currently offering to this age cohort, so I I don't quite know where they go from here.

0 (25m 29s):
What

1 (25m 30s):
Do you think the election of Maxwell Frost, the first generation Z member into the Congress tells us other than we're all getting older? Like, what is the significance here?

9 (25m 39s):
This is a generation that is not waiting for permission. And when you think about the way that young people have mobilized and, and organized around the issues that they really care about, again, those issues like climate change and gun control, you've seen them be able to make a difference in politics already and you've seen that they're not waiting for their turn. So I think if anything Maxwell Frost's election is evidence that, that we're gonna see more of these young people running and not, not waiting, not sort of coming up the old fashioned way necessarily. I mean, I think there will be several of them doing that too, but I think we should expect to see more of them running in future elections.

1 (26m 24s):
Today's show was produced by S Petros, who is indeed a youth, and it was edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard. It was engineered by a theme, Shapiro, gen X. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.