3 (0s):
It's Friday April 24th 2020. It's a great day to abstain from injecting disinfectants into your body. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained the president of the United States suggested Thursday night that it would be interesting to look into injecting disinfectant into humans to combat covid-19. This prompted the makers of Lysol to issue a statement reminding people that quote. And under no circumstance should our disinfectant products be administered into the human body through injection ingestion or any other route.

3 (40s):
Not sure who needed to hear that other than the person in charge of the country, but glad it's all been cleared up the Food and Drug Administration is also issuing guidance that contradicts the president. Remember those anti-malarial drugs Trump was promoting in a statement today the FDA strongly cautioned against using hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine to treat The 19 outside of a hospital setting or a clinical trial due to risk of heart rhythm problems. One thing everyone seems to agree on is aid for small businesses in the United States. The president signed a four hundred eighty four billion dollar relief bill that will also help hospitals and provide funding for testing missing from the package is aid for state governments, which Democrats are pushing for Republicans less.

3 (1m 24s):
So and while we're on the state, some of them are opening back up today. George's really going for it and we'll talk about Georgia and Today's show but George is not the only one features of already begun to open back up in Florida. Alaska is lifting restrictions. Oklahoma is reopening parks and stores are opening up in South Carolina more states are expected to lift their shelter in place orders in the coming weeks this as the death toll hit 50,000 in the United States today interestingly the president urged caution at least in the case of Georgia saying he disagreed strongly with the governor's decision to reopen certain businesses, but the president's messaging on them. Has been inconsistent at best no matter what state you're in you can call today explain them.

3 (2m 5s):
Let us know how you're doing. What's on your mind, whatever call our listener voicemail line at two. Oh two six eight eight five nine, four four email today explained at vox.com or tweet at us. We are at today underscore explained. I'm a traumas firm. Globally offices are closed and

4 (2m 28s):
we're all practicing social distancing but one major way we're staying in touch with family friends and co-workers is

2 (2m 34s):
through Zoom want to know

3 (2m 36s):
more about the company and the leader behind the brand keeping us all connected.

4 (2m 39s):
Then you have to subscribe to zero to IPO a podcast from

3 (2m 42s):
OCTA long before we all started taking video calls from 9 to 5 0 to IPO interviewed Zoom founder Eric you want where he shared his journey and advice for new entrepreneurs in the space subscribe to Your IPO podcast to hear this episode and catch up on season 1 of 0 to IPO. Georgia is reopening today, even as its death toll continues to rise according to a model from the University of Washington.

3 (3m 24s):
The state shouldn't be allowing people to get mani-pedis until June 22nd at the earliest. But here we are it's happening today and people are scared with the reason. Jillian Weinberger has been talking to someone in Georgia for today explained.

4 (3m 38s):
I've been talking to this woman for a different story about voting rights, but then coronavirus hit her town here in Albany you about three people

3 (3m 48s):
removed from knowing someone.

4 (3m 49s):
I mean, it becomes real close really fast. Her name is Lily and Rambo Snead and I live in Albany, Georgia, I grew up here. So Albany is pretty rural. It's mostly black and a lot of people live below the poverty line. Line, we are Title One County meaning every child in the county eats free back in mid-march Lillian and her husband were out of town and they got a call from a friend of theirs. It's actually a member of their Church where Lillian's husband is a bishop. She called and said her daughter's mother in law is in ICU and another friend of the family. She told us to that he was in ICU Lillian and her husband decided to head home and they got on the road.

4 (4m 32s):
My husband's over his sleeping. I'm driving to one song for fifteen hours. The promise often song by the late Andrae

3 (4m 42s):
Crouch. I'll never leave you. Neither force a and all of a sudden I'm like, hold on.

4 (5m 0s):
Okay, based on the people that I knew that were in the hospital in ICU. I put together a picture of how it happened. There was this big funeral and the people from the funeral left and went to another

3 (5m 16s):
funeral

4 (5m 18s):
and then they went to a church anniversary and so it spread

3 (5m 24s):
through three or four

4 (5m 25s):
churches that way.

1 (5m 29s):
State

4 (5m 29s):
officials don't know exactly who started the outbreak in Albany, but the state's first coronavirus casualty was a man who attended that first funeral a guy who traveled to Albany from Atlanta. He ended up in albany's hospital while he was in town. Well, he was here in the hospital for about a week. Not tested for the virus. So that person initially might have come in contact with the nurses the doctors the janitors the cafeteria people when that person left and went back to Atlanta Atlanta put him back in the hospital. They called back to hospital here and said he has the

1 (6m 11s):
virus.

4 (6m 16s):
Now Albany has one of the highest infection rates in the state and more people have died in Albany than in Atlanta, which is a much bigger city the minister that did the first funeral has since passed three family members in One family have since passed that one sick guests at one funeral has led to a lot more funerals are social media has turned into an obituaries column. And so this point, you know, we've moved to grave site services. What we traditionally especially in the south is not a very common thing to have a graveside service the first funeral we went to doing this virus was a judge whose two brothers his mother and his father are all ministers that funeral should have been attended by at least three different churches.

4 (7m 12s):
Along with all the legal judges and you know, we're talking about at least a thousand person funeral dwindled down to 10 people and about 30 people standing by their cars to watch it live on Facebook and we're standing there and I see his mother tears running down her face and she inhales grieving and says, my baby. And she's looking around but there's no one that can come up to her and hug, her grab her hands. So she puts her hands on her husband's shoulder.

4 (7m 55s):
And he breaks into tears and they're just they're trying to console one another. And you know the next funeral went to his my classmate. She was an activist here in Albany Dougherty County what they call a real Renaissance woman we all grew up together and we all went to school together. My parents were civil rights leaders here in Albany together there again at the car. About 20 feet away and I'm standing there and I look over the grave yard and there's three tents within a 50 yard radius of each other.

4 (8m 42s):
So you have three services going on at the same time and you're like, oh my Lord And there again, we only three people removed here in Albany. So you recognize. Oh, that's Pastor so-and-so so that must be someone so that just died places like Albany Georgia are especially vulnerable the uninsured rate and albany's home counting is about double the national average and Georgia. Unfortunately did not take the expansion for Medicaid. So therefore you have a disproportionate amount of people that do not have access. To adequate Healthcare.

4 (9m 24s):
That means they don't have a primary care doctor. They don't go to the doctor for any and everything. They've grown accustomed to using emergency rooms. If there is a need and our emergency room, of course now is inundated with people that are suffering from the virus. The other thing is people don't have access to medications because cuz they hadn't been to a doctor to get that chronic disease under control which could easily be managed. So that's another part that has played with making Albany a hot spot because you have so many people that have underlying conditions.

4 (10m 11s):
Asthma diabetes high blood pressure that are being exposed without the proper insurance without medical attention.

1 (10m 20s):
In

4 (10m 22s):
the ICU units are full and they're sending patients to surrounding areas. They had a stockpile of masks gloves that kind of thing and they went through protective gear six-month Supply in one week. We've survived floods of 94-98 tornadoes hurricanes. We've never seen anything like it.

3 (10m 53s):
more in a minute on today

1 (10m 54s):
explained

3 (11m 8s):
I turned 35 earlier this year, which means now invariably when you get together with your friends thinning hair comes up neutrophil would like to join the conversation neutrophil is formulated with pure Botanicals to grow hair. That's as strong. As you are gosh. Darn it. It's physician formulated to be 100% drug-free. They don't even use Lysol. They use natural clinically effective Botanicals for better hair growth through hole. Body health and neutral Works in clinical studies neutrophil users saw thicker stronger hair growth with less shedding in three to six months. You listener can grow thicker healthier hair and even support the show by going to neutrophil.com.

3 (11m 52s):
You'll get 20% off using the offer code explained that's their best offer available anywhere again, the website is neutral full.com and utra fol.com and the promo code is is explained I turned 35 earlier this year and that means whenever you get together with friends invariably someone ends up talking about seeing a therapist better help is offering licensed professional counselors who can help you can connect with your counselor in a safe and private online environment anything you share with them is confidential to get started simply fill out a questionnaire to help assess your needs and then you get matched with the counselor in less than 24 hours after that.

3 (12m 38s):
You can easily schedule video or phone sessions. Therapist plus exchange as many messages as you want better help offers professional help when you want wherever you are whether you're in a closet like I am presently or in a kitchen where I will be soon better help is a truly affordable option and right now listeners of today explain get 10% off your first month with the discount code. You guessed it explained. So go ahead and get started today better help.com explain. That's better. Heelp.com ESS pla

1 (13m 11s):
indd

3 (13m 21s):
Okay, Jillian Lillian said the ICU and Albanese, Georgia was so packed patients are being flown to other cities for care and that's because what so many people got sick so

4 (13m 32s):
quickly that's part of it. But also the Health Care system in Rural America was kind of a mess. Even before this pandemic began.

2 (13m 41s):
We have always faced Health Care disparities in Rural America,

4 (13m 46s):
Jacob Warren. Researcher At Mercer University in Macon, Georgia, not too far from where Lillian lives and he outlined two major problems with rural Healthcare one. There's a serious lack of doctors and hospitals and to patients either can't or won't use health care. We started with one the shortage

2 (14m 7s):
over the past 15 years or so ten percent of all rural hospitals of closed and there another 20 to 30 percent that are at risk of closing there are many many. Rural counties that don't have a physician at

4 (14m 19s):
all. So no, no providers whatsoever.

2 (14m 22s):
Right? There are some that have not a single physician

4 (14m 25s):
but if counties do have a doctor to that's not enough during a pandemic

2 (14m 29s):
if you have a county that has one medical provider and no hospital and you have two cases of covid and if that one provider became exposed to that patient and wasn't wearing PPE then they're going to have to self quarantine until they can get their test results back which are slower in rural communities and then Effectively wiped out the whole medical system in that county by having one or two providers

4 (14m 51s):
out and if a county is lucky enough to have access to a clinic or a hospital

2 (14m 56s):
because rural providers both Physicians and hospitals operate on such a tight margin or quite often a negative margin talking to a lot of my colleagues. They are facing really hard decisions about what they're going to have to do to be able to make

4 (15m 8s):
payroll because of the pandemic clinics and hospitals have had to cancel non-essential surgeries like back or knee surgery and that's a problem for Linux that are already operating at a loss because those are the procedures that bring in money

2 (15m 21s):
there's one Clinic that has had to send some nurses home which is ironic isn't even quite the right word. We're in the middle of this this crisis where we need all hands on deck but they're having to send some competent Healthcare Providers home because they just don't have the volume of services to make payroll and they don't have the resources to stock up on things like PPE. So they're much less likely to have had a stockpile in the first place and they're not able now to purchase all of Additional equipment that's needed in the context of a reduced income stream.

4 (15m 52s):
So that's issue. Number one issue. Number two is the

2 (15m 55s):
patients we see problems because we have higher rates of uninsurance higher rates of poverty lack of reliable transportation, and we know that states that did not expand Medicaid are disproportionately

4 (16m 5s):
Rural and then even if patients do have access there are some that just don't feel comfortable seeing a

2 (16m 10s):
doctor there's issues of mistrust of the medical community. We have lower levels of healthcare literacy. I have lower levels of General literacy all that place into Medical Care being a big black box for a lot of people that they don't understand and don't quite trust. We do also, you know, we have to say things the way they are we do still have issues of racism and discrimination within the healthcare setting. We know that early experiences of discrimination and racism within the healthcare setting make you much less likely to go back and seek care and in times of Crisis where we're asking individuals to take precautions that they might feel subject. Two additional profiling such as wearing a mask in public.

2 (16m 51s):
We're really layering on complexity here to makes it hard for marginalized populations to do everything. We're asking

4 (16m 57s):
so rural patients are less likely to have insurance even if they do they might not want to use it and if they're not going to the doctor, they're more likely to have chronic diseases.

2 (17m 8s):
So we have higher rates of diabetes. We have higher rates of hypertension. We have higher rates of General coronary disease, and so they're more susceptible to the The negative effects of covid-19 and then at the same time, you know, if they don't become infected, they're not able to access the primary care. They were able to previously to help them manage their diabetes and hypertension and heart disease. And so a lot of us are very concerned about what this is going to look like in three four months in terms of regular chronic disease outcomes because care has become a vacuum in this interim

4 (17m 40s):
still Jacob sees potential for change coming out of the pandemic. He thinks it's an opportunity for states to look at expanding access to

2 (17m 47s):
Cade whether that's temporary expansion of Medicaid during this crisis, that's one option

4 (17m 52s):
and right now insurance companies are covering virtual doctor's visits tell a house. Jacob hopes that sticks around

2 (17m 58s):
those are things we've been pushing for in rural healthcare for a long time because that will give patients access to it.

4 (18m 4s):
But in the short term,

2 (18m 6s):
we're seeing this pandemic play out in rural areas in ways that we're not seeing in other urban areas. It does reinforce this feeling that the healthcare Them is failing them. I'm worried. It'll lead to some more disillusionment with the Healthcare System. But at the same time if we're able to support change out of all of this, it could be an opportunity where they could say, okay this led to change so there was something positive that came out of all this.

3 (18m 47s):
Jillian Weinberger reported the story for today explain the rest of the team includes. No MM hassenfeld Bridget McCarthy a film Shapiro almond al-saadi and Halima shot. Cecilia lay is our fact Checker the mysterious brake master cylinder provides music. He didn't write this one. Liz Nelson is vaux's editorial director of podcasts and they explained his parts of the VOX media podcast Network.