1 (1s):
There are more than 9 million lead pipes delivering water to homes in the United States. It's not great. We know that lead is bad for us. And In fact, the Biden White House has spent a lot of time talking about it.

2 (14s):
Over the years, I have traveled around the country, and I have met many parents to talk about this very issue. So many parents, parents who were worried that every time they turned on the faucet to get their child a, a glass of water, that they may be filling that glass with poison.

1 (34s):
And then recently, Biden's, EPA upped the ante in a big way. Here's what it's proposing, that all of the lead pipes in this country be ripped up and replaced in the next 10 years. It's ambitious. It'll be expensive. Is it even possible Ahead on today? Explained what it would take to Get. the lead out.

Atlassian (1m 1s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian. software like Jira, confluence and Trello help power global collaboration for all teams so they can accomplish everything that's impossible alone, because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. No matter if you're a team of two, 200 or two million Atlassian software keeps everyone connected and moving together as one towards shared company goals. Learn, how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A-N dot com.

3 (1m 34s):
Atlassian scene

Vox (1m 43s):
Hey. there it's Noel from today. Explained since 2020, Vox has turned to our readers to help us keep Vox journalism free. Most newsrooms make money through either advertising or subscriptions, but for us, there are a couple of big problems with that. First advertising goes up and down with the economy. And second, we are not into subscriptions. Vox is here to help everyone understand complex issues, not just people who can afford to pay for it. And we cannot do that, of course, if we have a paywall. So If, you believe in the public value of news. Please help us get to 95,000 gifts by the end of the year by going to Vox dot com slash give.

1 (2m 30s):
It's today explained Noel King here with David Sedlak, who teaches in the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering at UC Berkeley. David studies water infrastructure and also why it's such a problem that LED is a big part of our water infrastructure.

4 (2m 45s):
There are many things that led does to the human body, but the one that we're most worried about when it comes to drinking water environmental exposures is lead's action as a neurotoxin. It's especially toxic for children during their development and exposure to very low levels of lead can result in reduced IQ and behavioral problems and other kinds of health effects that can follow someone throughout their entire life. Okay,

1 (3m 14s):
So it's acting on the brain.

4 (3m 16s):
The brain is one of the places where it has the largest impact, especially in developing children.

1 (3m 22s):
If lead is as dangerous as you've just described, how did we end up with it? Transporting our drinking water into our houses?

4 (3m 31s):
Well, lead's been around and associated with our drinking water for thousands of years.

1 (3m 37s):
Soay Marcus, can you believe we finally have running water in our villa?

5 (3m 42s):
All thanks to these incredible new lead pipes. Our Roman engineers really are the best. Hail Neptune, Neptune,

4 (3m 50s):
It was the Romans who pioneered some of the first systems to send water into cities and a lot of the pipe work and, and valves and ways to move water involved. The use of lead In fact, the word plumber comes from the Latin word plumb for the name for lead itself. So lead was essentially synonymous with the piping and valves and, and other types of infrastructure used to move water because it was so easy to work with and malleable. You have to remember in ancient times there weren't a lot of the modern materials that we're used to today. There were no plastics.

4 (4m 30s):
There were the high strength, iron and metal and steel. And so lead was this readily available material that could be molded into all kinds of shapes and perhaps most importantly could withstand pressure. And so it was the obvious choice for pipes

1 (4m 46s):
In 2000 years. Why didn't we make any advancements? How did it end up that here in the United States, a lot of the houses on my street, I know this for a fact, I was able to look it up. They have lead pipes bringing them water

4 (5m 0s):
As the modern water infrastructures that we built in cities in the 19th and 20th century grew. Lead was the only real option, especially for the pipes that take water from the street into people's homes because they had to be flexible and malleable and easily installed. Basically at, at some point in the 20th century, people came to recognize that lead might be an issue and also other types of pipes became cheaper and easier to install, like copper service lines. And so the places where we find the most lead water pipes and service lines is in the oldest cities.

4 (5m 41s):
So you'll fi find the lead pipes, particularly in the northeast and upper Midwest.

1 (5m 47s):
Okay. So for a long time we are just crack acking along, making our pipes out of lead. And then at a certain point we start to realize it is not just a substance that we make things out of. It's actually really bad for us. Can you tell us the how and the when of this happening, this realization?

4 (6m 4s):
Well, the recognition that lead was a wide scale health problem actually isn't related to drinking water at all. It was something that happened in the mid 1960s as scientists started to understand the health effects of leaded gasoline.

6 (6m 21s):
What comes from leaded exhaust is a polluted atmosphere and damage to children like brain damage learning disabilities estimates 300,000 children have levels of lead in their systems that are considered dangerous.

4 (6m 34s):
So in the 1960s and and through up until the mid 1970s, lead was an additive in gasoline to make the engine run more efficiently,

6 (6m 47s):
Where you could still get leaded premium, the spirit 76,

4 (6m 52s):
And it was distributed all over because it would come outta people's tailpipes. And so children had high levels of blood lead through the 1970s. And when scientists started looking at where the lead was coming from, they decided that a lot of it had come from leaded gasoline and some of it had come from lead paint. So back in that era, a lot of the paint that was used on surfaces, particularly surfaces that got a lot of traffic, like the kind of paint that you would use on your kitchen cabinets were made out of lead containing materials.

7 (7m 25s):
It's pure white lead, it's Dutch boy, and it's ready to use this new paint like the famous paste gives your home the long lasting protection of pure white lead.

4 (7m 37s):
So there were lots of sources of lead in the 1960s, and as we became aware of the fact that this was having health impacts, there was an effort to get it out of gasoline

6 (7m 47s):
Cars built. After 1974, you was unleaded.

4 (7m 50s):
And once we recognized that that wouldn't do enough to remove the lead, people started to ask questions of why children still were showing up with lead every once in a while. And that turned people's attention to the possibility that the lead pipes and the lead containing solder and plumbing fixtures might also be an important source of lead exposure.

1 (8m 12s):
And so the government's now realized, okay, there were a couple of sources of lead getting into us gasoline and paint are, now we've sort of cut them out. What did the government do when it realized the drinking water was a problem too?

4 (8m 25s):
Well, the obvious thing to do would've been to say, let's take the lead pipes out. But people realized pretty quickly that there were a lot of lead pipes and they would be hard to get to because they were not the, the big pipes that ran under the street, but they were the pipes that ran through properties and also that people had lead solder and lead fixtures inside their homes. And it's pretty unusual for the government to come into your home and, and try to repair your plumbing and pipes. And so one of the responses of the federal government was to pass a regulation. The the So-called Lead and copper rule in 1991. And this was an EPA regulation that told water utilities how to manage the chemistry of their drinking water.

4 (9m 11s):
So rather than pulling the lead pipes out, we could change the chemistry of the drinking water to make it less conducive to corrosion. And that process of corrosion is one of the ways in which lead gets released into tap water. So the idea was that you could change the chemistry of the water and make sure that the lead wasn't being released into the tap water.

1 (9m 37s):
Did it work? Did the government's lead in copper rule and mitigation and treatment techniques, did that improve the situation?

4 (9m 44s):
So the lead and copper rule made a big difference in many places, but there were some places where there were some other things going on in water systems that had unintended consequences. And the one that probably had the biggest impact on the way people think about controlling lead release from pipes happened in Washington DC in the early two thousands. And the city of Washington was struggling to meet the EPA regulations on chlorine disinfection byproducts. That is when we add chlorine to water to disinfect it, it produces small amounts of chemicals that can be carcinogenic or can lead to miscarriages and other, other things you don't want in your tap water.

4 (10m 31s):
And so the City of Washington switched the form of chlorine that they were adding to the water before setting it out in the pipes from So-called free chlorine or basically bleach to something called chloramines. And when they did that, that had an unintended impact on the release of lead from the lead containing service lines and the lead concentration shot up. And lots of people, especially children, were exposed to high levels of lead in the period immediately after the conversion from chlorine to chloramines.

1 (11m 7s):
Alright, so this is, we've got this issue in DC in my adult lifetime. We've had this crisis in Flint, tens of thousands of residents exposed to high levels of lead when the city starts getting its water from the Flint River in Newark, you had elevated levels of lead in the public schools. These were all incidents that made big news. The public was aware of them. Why is it only now in 2023 that President Biden's EPA is saying, we need to get all of the lead pipes out within the next 10 years? Why? Why did it take this long?

4 (11m 38s):
Well, the crises in Washington and Flint and Newark turned public attention to lead. And they, they finally built the momentum and political support for the idea that yes, we could afford to take all the lead pipes out. Finally, it was just recognized that, you know, this is something we need to do because no matter how hard we try, people are gonna make mistakes and that's gonna lead to lead exposure. And that's just not something that we can tolerate.

8 (12m 11s):
Folks, this isn't complicated. Every person in this country deserves to be able to turn on a faucet and have clean drinking water. And through the infrastructure law, we're making historic investments to make sure that they can

0 (12m 26s):
President

1 (12m 27s):
Joe Biden before him, David Sedlak of Berkeley coming up. Surely this isn't possible. A researcher has some good news.

Etsy (12m 48s):
Support for today. Explain comes from Etsy. With the holiday season approaching, you might be on the lookout for presence. Etsy is a great place to help you find affordable handcrafted gifts made by independent sellers. If, you have someone on your list who's a home chef. Etsy could help you find the perfect addition to your kitchen, maybe a custom cutting board. If, you have someone on your list who's obsessed with that. Nicole Kidman, a MC ad that previews the movies. you know, somehow heartbreak feels good in a place like this. And you're like, I want that on a hat. Etsy can hook you up. Was that personal? Maybe. If you're new to Etsy, you can use the code holiday 10 for 10% off your first purchase. That's code holiday 10, maximum discount value of $50 expires December 31st, 2023 C terms at etsy dot com slash terms for handcrafted and affordable gifts For everyone on your list, Etsy has at shop etsy dot com.

Robinhood (13m 53s):
Support for today, explain comes from Robinhood, not the Fox, the platform. There are lots of ways to potentially boost your investments these days and even more options on where to stash 'em. If you're interested in finding new ways to invest, you might consider moving your brokerage account over to Robinhood. Whether you're transferring $1,000 or $2 million right now, Robinhood is offering an unlimited 1% bonus on your assets. Unlimited as in no cap. If, you have $2 million. Hit me up, I'll take your money. You can see why over 3 million people have Rated Robinhood five stars on the app store. You can visit robinhood dot com slash explained to claim your bonus terms apply to the bonus. See full bonus terms at robinhood dot com. Investments offered through Robinhood Financial LLC investing is risky.

Atlassian (14m 53s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian. software like Jira, confluence and Trello help power the collaboration for teams to accomplish what would otherwise be impossible alone. Because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. That's why millions of teams around the world, including 75% of the Fortune 500 trust Atlassian software for everything from space exploration and green energy to delivering pizzas and podcasts, whether you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million, or whether your team is around the corner or around another continent altogether, Atlassian software is built to help keep you all on the same page from start to finish. That way every one of your teams, from engineering and IT to marketing, HR, and legal can stay connected and moving together as one towards shared company-wide goals. Learn, how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's at L-A-S-I-A-N dot com, Atlassian.

1 (16m 0s):
It's today explained with Karen Baehler, a scholar at American University who studies environmental justice Karen what's in this new Biden EPA proposal.

10 (16m 10s):
There's a lot in it and a lot of it is genuinely new. I think we might even say this is a non incremental policy change, which is why a lot of people are excited about it. So really the, the, the headline I suppose you'd have to say is there is a requirement now from the federal level for all lead service lines, which are the lead water pipes that lead from the water main in the middle of the street to people's buildings. All of those lead pipes have to be removed completely all the way, the full length of the pipe in 10 years. And 10 years is a much quicker timeline than what we were looking at in the past.

10 (16m 53s):
So the new proposed revised rule is full of potential improvements.

1 (16m 58s):
Okay, so you referred to this as non incremental and you weren't even being snarky, which I appreciate, but non incremental would seem to also mean somewhat ambitious. This seems ambitious. Is it possible?

10 (17m 11s):
Ambitious is an excellent word. We could also say however, that it's late. I think it is possible if lots of people do the right things and a lot of work is done,

8 (17m 23s):
Folks, this isn't complicated. Every person in this country deserves to be able to turn on a faucet and have clean drinking water. And through the infrastructure law, we're making historic investments to make sure that they can.

1 (17m 36s):
I want you to walk us through exactly what goes into replacing these lead pipes and what they're replaced with. Tell me what I might be seeing if I'm walking through my own street here in Washington DC and the Biden administration's proposal is going through, the lead pipes are coming out. What's this gonna look like?

10 (17m 52s):
Well, you'll be walking down your street and you'll see a lot of trucks from DC Water, which is our local utility. And what they'll be doing is digging up the middle of the street because these lead service lines, as I mentioned before, run all the way from the water Maine, which is the great big pipe that runs down the middle of the street to the house. So they have to dig up the street and then they'll dig a trench all the way from the street up to your building. And then they pull out the lead pipes and have to handle them very carefully, of course, because they are, you know, a hazardous material. And then they will replace those pipes, reconnect to the water, main reconnect to the house. Usually the replacements are made of copper, and then of course they have to cover everything up and they have to replace your sidewalks and replace the street.

10 (18m 37s):
It ought to be able to be done in a week, you know, for a whole block if they're doing it all at one time. It

1 (18m 44s):
Seems like this could be expensive. How much money is going to be available to states to get this project done? And where's that money coming from?

10 (18m 53s):
The cost is is obviously very much a, a factor. There are so many different sources of money, it's kind of mind boggling. And you know, this is part of the challenge for localities is to figure out, you know, how to sort through all of the different pots of money that are available. Fortunately we have the bipartisan infrastructure bill or, or law I should call it, that was passed recently and that contains $15 billion nationwide for this work specifically, specifically this lead work. It's also interesting, many people don't note that, that that law also authorizes 50 billion, $50 billion for water infrastructure in general.

10 (19m 36s):
And so that's good news for utilities because it means that that money will take pressure off of other parts of their capital budget so that they could potentially spend more on the lead pipes. Some cities have put in money into lead pipe removal directly from their municipal budgets. And then there are a PA has a state revolving water fund that funds this work. Of course, the final part that's so important is potentially raising the rates on water customers. And that nearly always needs to be one piece of the whole recipe.

1 (20m 11s):
What else is needed beyond money? If we can say, all right, the money is doable, what are the additional hurdles?

10 (20m 16s):
Well, one of the hurdles that you find in this new rule is the issue of legal access to the property itself. Generally about half of the pipe is sitting on public land and about half of it is sitting on private property. And there are various types of obstacles to that, and this varies hugely from jurisdiction to jurisdiction in terms of who owns that pipe. But in the past we know that utilities were sometimes given not the best information about those restrictions. A lot of utilities were told, for example, that they could not spend rate payer money to do anything on private land.

10 (20m 58s):
But then a recent analysis just last couple of years from some researchers at the Emmett Center at Harvard, the Center on Environmental Law and also the Environmental Defense Fund, they looked at laws, policies and and court decisions in 13 states that have lots and lots of lead pipes. And what they found really was that those policies did allow the spending of rate payer money on private land for lead removal because of course it's a public good, it's a public benefit, it's not a private benefit only to the homeowner.

1 (21m 30s):
Okay, so there are some very interesting obstacles here. You studied the lead line replacement program here in Washington DC. What were you studying exactly? What were you, what were you watching for?

10 (21m 41s):
So in that study we were looking specifically at the difference between full replacements and partial replacements of pipes.

11 (21m 49s):
DC water replaced water lines serving thousands of homes from 2004 to 2008. But homeowners were responsible for replacing any lead pipes on their side of the property line. Could

10 (21m 60s):
Be about $2,500 on average per house. It's a lot of money, you know, when you're, you're living on a tight budget. And so what the utility would do in those circumstances is a partial replacement. So the people living in the house, you know, still have a lot of exposure to lead because of the piece of the pipe that's on private property.

11 (22m 20s):
The CDC says partial pipe replacement can sometimes cause more harm than good. The study found that children living in homes with partial lead pipe replacement had elevated lead levels in their blood.

10 (22m 30s):
What we found was that in the districts within the, the city known as wards, the eight wards of Washington DC in the districts that had lower income, lower median income, and higher percentages of populations who identify as as African American and black, they had more partial replacements and fewer full replacements. Hmm. Now what this essentially means, right, is that the people living in those parts of the city are receiving a less effective remediation and they're exposed to public health hazards that other parts of the city are not exposed to.

10 (23m 11s):
So it's a real equity concern. Now, I should mention that our data was from 2009 to 2018. So that was during the period when partial replacements were frequently done and accepted and the cost sharing was in place. Fortunately, DC changed that rule in 2018.

1 (23m 30s):
Oh, now DC is paying for homeowners to get it done. They are.

10 (23m 33s):
They are, yeah. Starting in October of 2019 they've been doing that. Okay.

1 (23m 38s):
So what could other cities, a lot of cities are gonna go through this. What could they learn from Washington DC?

10 (23m 44s):
Well, they absolutely could learn a lot. And you know, when I read through the EPAs new revised rule, I think the EPA learned a lot from DC as well and, and from other places in the country that have been successful about this. One of the big takeaways I think for other cities is that you really have to be quite deliberate in thinking about the equity implications of your lead removal program. How you do it, you know, really matters in, you know, back in the old days, as we say, it was logical. you know, they'd say, well we're just gonna go to the places that have the most lead pipes and we're gonna try to get as much lead out of the ground as possible. If that means we do partials, then we do partials. If it means that, you know, we send our crews into wealthier, wider parts of a city because people there are, you know, willing to pay for these, then you know, that's what we do.

10 (24m 35s):
Because our goal is to Get the lead out of the ground. And so I think what we're learning though is that those approaches end up having unintended and pretty severe impacts on the equity patterns of, of access to this service. And so I hope other cities will learn that to target those neighborhoods where you really need to start doing the work.

1 (24m 59s):
I think when people hear about proposals like this, oftentimes we're skeptical of government. We say this isn't gonna happen even if the money is there, government is such a mess. Agencies don't coordinate. People are suspicious. You are telling me you've seen success stories. Can you tell me one of those success stories?

10 (25m 21s):
Well sure. One of the, I think really inspiring ones is Madison Wisconsin in Madison. They started really wanting to remove the lead pipes in the early nineties. Now the lead and copper rule, you know, was brand new at that point. And immediately the city of Madison, Wisconsin is thinking, hmm, we're not just gonna add chemicals to our water in order to, you know, avoid lead leaching. We actually wanna get these lead pipes out of the ground. We

12 (25m 51s):
Had done some studies using our water and demonstrated that there really was limited benefit. The alternative was to use orthophosphate. And as we know, that is what triggers Eutrofication or the algae growth in Madison area lakes.

10 (26m 6s):
So they really started the actual removals in 2001 and they had about 8,000 pipes that needed to be taken out and it took 'em about 10 years and

12 (26m 15s):
It was a Herculean task.

13 (26m 17s):
Madison is a model for the rest of the country,

12 (26m 20s):
I would say. So, I mean we made a decision 20 plus years ago to take out the lead. We don't have that in our system anymore.

10 (26m 27s):
Now Newark, New Jersey then originally had a timeframe of about eight years for replacing all 24,000 of their pipes.

14 (26m 36s):
The water coming from Yvette Jordan's tap looks pure, but this year she learned it contained lead levels nearly three times federal

15 (26m 43s):
Rules. The city says it's embarking on a plan to replace lead water pipes, but that will take some time, possibly years to get all of that done.

10 (26m 52s):
And they ended up doing it in about three years. Newark

16 (26m 54s):
Has become a national model for replacing lead water laws.

17 (26m 58s):
We went through a storm and then the sun came out and you know, not all storms are there to wash you away, I guess.

10 (27m 5s):
So, you know, these are just a few of the success stories that I think give us hope that we can scale this up.

1 (27m 14s):
That was Karen Baehler of American University. Today's episode was produced by Isabel Angell and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by David Herman and Fact-Check by Anouck Duso. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.