1 (1s):
Over the last 14 months. On nine separate occasions, Jerome Powell's Federal Reserve has ticked interest rates up, up, up. And then yesterday, a typically subdued Powell did it again.

2 (12s):
Today, the F O M C raised its policy interest rate by a quarter percentage point. Since early last year, we've raised interest rates by a total of five percentage points.

1 (21s):
Many words to say the Fed is making money more expensive. Your mortgage, your small business loan, it just costs more. To borrow a point that he typically amped, Senator Elizabeth Warren has made

3 (33s):
Chair Powell hasn't just raised interest rates, he has raised them on a curve. Unlike anything we steepest in, in 40 years, deepest in 40 years, in 14 months, he's gone up five points here. And that's when things start to break.

1 (51s):
Today, unexplained our higher interest rates starting to break things.

4 (60s):
Here's a pop quiz. What's a better factor to determine upward mobility? A elementary school test scores b, A two-parent household, or C commute time?

5 (1m 11s):
We know that social mobility depends on literal mobility.

4 (1m 17s):
Transportation. Secretary Pete Buttigieg on the weeds referencing a 2015 Harvard study. I'm John Plin Hill host of the Weeds, a podcast all about the policies that shape our lives. Find it wherever you get your podcasts.

6 (1m 31s):
Nita Manor's new movie is part team comedy, part Bollywood Drama and part martial arts action film, which makes for some really interesting scenes

7 (1m 41s):
Every time you go for any sort of ridiculous body hair removal, it's like this is like akin to torture. I need a waxing torture scene and I need a villain just chewing the scenery. This is why I wanna be a filmmaker. To make this specific scene,

6 (1m 54s):
Nita Manzo on her new movie Polite Society This week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast. This is

1 (2m 17s):
Talman Joseph Smith, economics reporter at the New York Times, and good friend of today explained, start by telling me whether a 5.25 interest rate, which is where we're at today, is considered high.

9 (2m 29s):
Yes and no. So to get to the yes first, it is absolutely a very high interest rate compared to say the 2010s when most of the decade, right, interest rates were at or near zero with exception of a year or two here or there. And it's important to also keep in mind however, the pace of this rate site high goal. So in February, 2022, just over a year ago, the Fed still had baseline interest rates near zero. By summer they were around 1%, and basically a year they've hiked interest rates 10 times and essentially quadrupled that 1% rate from a year ago. In fact, a little bit more than that. However, in the grand scheme of things, interest rates across much of the 20th century and much of the early part of this century were at current levels or much higher.

1 (3m 19s):
Alright, so let's talk about the response to yesterday's rate. Hike 5.25. You're putting it in context and you're saying, look, in context, it's not that high, but it's high for now. What's the response?

9 (3m 31s):
There's this sort of battle that's been going on really since 2021, the spring of 2021 when inflation first reared its head. There's been the doves and the hawks. Doves are generally folks that say the cost of borrowing could be lower in order to support the economy and labor market in various ways.

3 (3m 53s):
Rate increases make it more likely that companies will fire people and slash hours to shrink wage costs, rate increases also make it more expensive for families to do things like borrow money for a house. And so far

9 (4m 9s):
The cost on the other side, you have hawks who believe that wherever the Fed stance is at a given time, the fed's probably not doing enough. We

11 (4m 17s):
Have more work to do on inflation. Inflation, although we've had some welcome news is still too high, and we need to do what we can with our monetary policy tools to bring it down

9 (4m 27s):
For much of 2021, the doves had somewhat of an upper hand as people looked at supply chains being messed up, they looked at the fact that China was still shut down even as we reopened with our vaccines. And they said much of this might be transitory, which is a fancy word for transient, which is a fancy word for temporary, that we, we wouldn't have to live with

3 (4m 49s):
These

9 (4m 49s):
Higher rates of price increases for very long. And so why not just practice patience and let this thing sort of resolve itself? And the hawks were saying, no, no, no, you don't understand. We have spent trillions and trillions of dollars. Those trillions and trillions of dollars in spending have not even fully hit the economy for now, as long as we have constrained supply, those trillions of dollars are gonna stimulate demand in a way that will be unsustainable on a longer basis than you think. Now, nobody could have predicted unless they had a crystal ball the Ukraine war, but just as there was hope that inflation might settle on its own. The Ukraine war happens, supply chains get even more discombobulated.

9 (5m 32s):
Energy prices, commodity prices, experience all sorts of volatility. And we get the sort of near double digit inflation that we got last spring, last summer. And so the hawks ended up having the upper hand As inflation is moderated over the past year, going from that peak of 9% down to 5%, and actually 4.2% according to the Fed's preferred measure. Doves once again are sort of having the upper hand. In fact, there's some hawks who have converted to dodo saying that, okay, we were right in 2021 and in early 22, but geez, I mean we've, we've hiked 10 times now, we've, we've more than quadrupled the rate.

9 (6m 15s):
How about we take a pause? Now, the Federal Reserve seems to be leaning towards taking a pause by their next meeting in June. There's this idea that this might be the last rate hike.

2 (6m 27s):
A a p a decision on a pause was not made today. You will have noticed that in the, in the statement from March, we had a sentence that said, the committee anticipates that some additional policy firming may be appropriate. That sentence is, is not in in the statement anymore. We took that out. We, that's a, that's a meaningful change that we we're no longer saying that

1 (6m 48s):
Part of the reason that they're thinking about taking a pause presumably is because of what higher interest rates do to the economy more broadly, let's talk about what higher interest rates have been doing. And let's start with a place where I think almost every single one of us probably focuses our attention at one point or another, which is the housing market. What do higher interest rates mean for people buying houses and people selling houses

9 (7m 12s):
In the most direct way? It makes your monthly mortgage payment much more expensive when the mortgage rate goes up. And we saw during the height of the housing boom in 20 20, 20 21, and even leaking a little bit into early 2022, there were plenty of folks, all of whom were able to get interest rates at four three. And in some cases nearly 2%. That allowed many people to lock in cheap fixed term debt. Even as interest rates have risen over the past year or so, they've been locked in and so they've not been affected. However, if you're a new home buyer, you not only have to contend with higher prices that have come as a result of the housing boom that we've seen, but now you can't really get a mortgage for two or three or 4% and in some cases not even 5%.

9 (8m 4s):
Often you're looking at 7% and if your credit score is not that great, 8% and that's if you can even afford the down payment in the first place.

1 (8m 12s):
My, my interest rate on my mortgage is 3%. And I will tell you something, in all honesty, if it had not been 3%, I wouldn't have, I wouldn't have bought a house. It was like everyone said to me, you need to do it now while rates are low. And I was like, okay, I'm of, I'm of age, I'm gonna do it. But if interest rates had been six or 7%, I would not have gotten that advice and I would still be renting. What do high interest rates do to businesses?

9 (8m 35s):
So this is one of the main channels that the Fed operates its policy. It is the simple mechanism that when the baseline interest rates for the cost of borrowing money goes up, every single business has their cost of borrowing set against that. And it's usually going to be a little bit higher based on your credit worthiness. That has changed now, many businesses are going to, over the course of this year, and certainly over the course of next year, going to have to go back to the well and ask for more funding to get another credit line from the bank or just at least refresh it. Many people may have sticker shock when they realize that the new cost of borrowing money, just because the federal funds rate that policy rate that we've been talking about, just because it's gone up by so much, their borrowing costs will have gone up by a lot as well.

9 (9m 30s):
And that could lead to some of the things that you've talked about with other guests and that you've talked about with me, which is they may make pretty drastic cutbacks internally including stopping new expansions of business, you know, maybe not investing in new equipment, maybe not doing new hires, and in many cases, or some cases, deciding to fire people to cut back on staffing. And that's where you get into the sort of things that people really worry about, which is the eventual impact that this could have on the labor market.

1 (10m 0s):
Okay, so we have housing, we have businesses, and then tal a thing that we keep hearing is that one of the reasons we have seen bank failures over the past couple of weeks is because of interest rates going up. Can you explain that? Can you make two and two equal four here? How does Silicon Valley Bank end up closing? Just because Jerome Powell is like, mm, we're gonna, we're gonna jack up interest rates a bit more.

9 (10m 23s):
They had these, you know, assets on their books, these treasury bonds on their books that paid out a lot less than newer bonds issued at higher rates could, which makes those old bonds less valuable. Now that's not usually a big problem if you don't have depositors that are worried about their money, but as news about how a lot of these assets they had in their books were not as valuable now compared to 2020 and say 2021 got out, Hmm, their depositors were so concentrated, they're, you know, part of a sort of Californian elite that often also had deposits that were above the government protected limits in terms of deposit insurance.

9 (11m 3s):
Put that all together. And you do have almost a worst case scenario that isn't the case for much more diversified banks throughout the country. However, it's obviously spooked markets. It's spooked. The Federal Reserve drone. Powell spoke about how banking, stress, financial conditions being challenging, factored into their sort of forward guidance. We

2 (11m 29s):
Will continue to very carefully monitor what's going on in the banking system and we'll factor that assessment into our decisions in an important way going forward.

1 (11m 38s):
And so if we have banking getting hit and we have home buyers and home sellers getting hit and we have businesses and in particular we pay attention to small businesses getting hit, when do things start to break?

9 (11m 50s):
It's, it's funny you wrote, you do all sorts of reporting that I do and you know, you're talking to, you know, asset managers that control trillions of dollars. You know, I spoke with a CIO of fixed income at BlackRock yesterday. I could just smell how rich he was through the phone. You know, you listening to Jerome Powell yesterday and you know, he is arguably one of the most powerful figures in the entire globe. And they all keep saying the word uncertainty. Uncertainty. You can just imagine, you know, as a reporter and as a citizen, I think it's very understandable that people are uncomfortable and and fearful because when sort of the, the, the smartest money in the room and you know, most powerful people in the world are saying that they're not sure what's going to happen either in the coming months, that's a good reason to be cautious of not fearful.

9 (12m 41s):
In terms of how we'll go from here, there's this old phrase that monetary policy operates with long and variable lags, basically that you never really know exactly what interest rate hikes, especially when they happen this quickly will do to the economy besides the obvious things that it will do to interest rate sensitive sectors. And they happen with a lag regardless. So we're not out the woods yet.

1 (13m 8s):
I can't tell if you're optimistic or pessimistic. Tell it

9 (13m 10s):
De it depends on the day. It depends on the day.

1 (13m 15s):
All right, we're gonna take a break and when we come back we're gonna talk about the last time interest rates. Were really, really, really high tally, you're coming back with us? Yep.

12 (13m 41s):
Hey folks, I'm Heather Cox Richardson. And

13 (13m 44s):
I'm Joanne Freeman.

12 (13m 45s):
We're the hosts of now and then a podcast from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network that looks to the American past to make sense of our current political and cultural climate.

13 (13m 56s):
Recently we've traced the tangled history of the New York County District Attorney's office, the American cultural fascination with UFOs and our national love hate relationship with the banking industry.

12 (14m 7s):
Tune in each Wednesday as we make sense of the headlines and the long road to this crucial moment for democracy.

13 (14m 14s):
Listen for free wherever you get your podcasts.

14 (14m 22s):
When trouble strikes in music town, there's one guy who gets the call, that's me, Joe Treble, forensic musicologist. And this week on Switched on Pop, I've got one of the most shocking cases I've ever worked on. Someone killed the key change in pop music and I'm going to find out who, back in the 1980s and nineties, a quarter of all hit songs featured a key change. But today the key change has virtually disappeared from the hot 100 songs start and end in the same key and no one seems to have even noticed except me.

14 (15m 4s):
And that means whoever is behind this heinous crime has nowhere to hide. Join me on, switched on Bob as I tackle the hardest case of my career. The case of the missing key

1 (15m 36s):
Taman, Joseph Smith of the New York Times, the federal funds rate, the interest rate is now at 5.25%, which seems very high to us, but historically it is not that bad at all. I was looking at some data the other day in 1980, it was 20%. What was it like to be a consumer during that period?

9 (15m 58s):
In the early eighties, the average boomer who is now somewhere in between 60 and 80 years old, they were in their late twenties and in their thirties like most millennials are now, interest rates were really high. And that's in part because inflation was really high and the Federal Reserve of that era was doing its own version of hiking the cost of capital in order to try to bring in inflation. Down Robin,

16 (16m 23s):
There are those who claim Paul Volker is the real father of this recession in October, soon after he became Federal Reserve chairman. The Fed intensified its efforts to stop inflation. Its basic strategy was to cut back the amount of money that would be available for borrowing.

9 (16m 38s):
They succeeded eventually. And you got a really nasty recession out of it. Mr.

16 (16m 42s):
Boker, welcome first. Are you willing to accept parenthood for this recession, sir? No,

17 (16m 47s):
I'll claim no paternity. I don't even like the question being asked that way.

9 (16m 51s):
But in the meantime, and even for a bit afterwards, interest rates were really high. And I was talking with your heroic producer before we started chatting and he mentioned how Rocky Balboa in one of the Rocky movies is like bragging about how he got a mortgage rate that was 9.5% or something along those lines. This

18 (17m 12s):
Is Miles the producer, it wasn't Rocky, it was his wife Adrian. And she wasn't bragging so much as just stating the fact, I regret the error.

19 (17m 20s):
The bank said it will give us a $16,000 first mortgage at nine and a half percent.

20 (17m 24s):
Why? I don't, I said we get the house now, huh? Yeah, but we come upstairs. I don't mind. It's just details. I'm sure it's nice.

9 (17m 31s):
And so I think that bit of pop culture is sort of telling about the sort of relative scale of what it was like to sort of operate as a, as a consumer and as a, as a person during that time. And I think in some ways it serves as a cautionary tale as we debate as a country when, and if we should pause on our current rate hiking cycle.

1 (17m 56s):
I was talking to my mom the other day and she was telling me that when my parents bought their house, their interest rate was 12%. It is inconceivable to me of the 3% interest rate that people might have been borrowing money on those terms. When did the interest rates start to come down?

9 (18m 14s):
They came down from their, you know, high teens in the early part of the eighties, down, down, down through the nineties. And then comes the Great Recession and you have the Fed's policy interest rate go all the way down to zero.

21 (18m 31s):
The Federal Reserve is decided to keep interest rates at a record low with the economy continuing to bleed. Jobs and credit still hard to come by. The Central Bank said it will employ a new tool hoping to boost the economy out of the recession. There was

9 (18m 44s):
Talk about whether the entire global financial system would collapse. We actually had deflation for a period of time that lasted for quite some time, depending on the sector. I'm sure there's plenty of people that remember housing prices dropping by double digits continually for a period of time. And job loss, permanent job loss especially, was very prominent. And you know, it was a period of folks have in their car taken by the repo man of having their houses foreclosed on in a way that was incredibly widespread and calm. And it seemed like everybody knew somebody that was affected if they weren't affected themselves. And in terms of the overall economy, what economists call aggregate demand was very, very suppressed.

9 (19m 29s):
There's a, you know, much more simple way to put it, which is if you're broke, you can't spend that much. And a lot of people were broke. Hmm. I'm sure you know, you and I both vividly remember when the Obama administration had a big stimulus plan, the

22 (19m 41s):
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that I will sign today. A plan that meets the principles I laid out in January is the most sweeping economic recovery package in our history.

9 (19m 54s):
And it worked, but it didn't really get us out of a rut. But people were still very, very upset about that stimulus plan and they thought it was irresponsible in some cases. It began last February with

23 (20m 4s):
An offhand slap at President Obama's stimulus plan by a cable commentator.

24 (20m 8s):
We're thinking of having a Chicago Tea Party in July. All you capitalists, I wanna show up the Lake Michigan, I'm gonna start organizing.

9 (20m 17s):
So that sort of ended up leaving the Federal Reserve as the only game in town. And the Federal Reserve can't spend in the direct way that the government can, but it can lend. And so the 400 PhDs at the Federal Reserve and the Federal Open Market Committee, all the folks that run the Fed together circle around this idea of like, okay, well what if we just keep it really inexpensive for businesses to finance their operations? Hopefully that'll do something. So I'm not sure about the age range of, you know, our listeners here, but I'm sure you know, plenty of people have seen the meme of like a stick man poking a blob saying do something. And for much of the 2010s, that's what the Fed was doing.

9 (20m 59s):
And they weren't getting a lot of results by some measures besides helping finance fledgling industries like tech, which ended up being a very big deal. And you know, there's an uncertain but real share of, you know, apps that we have and delivery services and all sorts of things of that nature that we might not have if the cost of borrowing was harder for startups.

1 (21m 21s):
Give me a few examples of the companies that you're talking about, your

9 (21m 24s):
Ubers of the world, Netflix, the sort of big tech companies that we've seen. Why would

25 (21m 30s):
You go after revenue? Because to make money, no. If you show revenue, people will ask how much, and it will never be enough the company that was the a hundred x or the thousand X or becomes the two x dog. But if you have no revenue, you can say you're pre-revenue, you are a potential pure play. It's not about how much you earn, it's about what you're worth and who's worth the most. Companies that lose money,

9 (21m 56s):
A lot of that some think would not be as powerful of, of an industry in our economy. The sort of tech-based engine would not be as strong without this period. However, the apps that we scroll or the delivery services that we have, you know, don't necessarily raise living standards. And I guess that brings me very quickly to just the counter argument here that no, in the end, those lower interest rates actually did help stimulate things. By the end of the slow jobs recovery that we got throughout the Obama era, the economy kept expanding because it was cheap for businesses to borrow and inflation was still low. And so we all chugged along and people were feeling pretty good about the economy even though there was still an affordability crisis at that time.

9 (22m 44s):
And even though obviously politically the country was incredibly divided and then of course get covid, which has been an incredible exogenous shock that has sort of changed everything, at least for now. So at

1 (22m 56s):
The end of the day, tal, what's more abnormal? The, the moment we're in where we see interest rates ticking up and we're all getting very nervous, or all of those years where interest rates were, were near zero. What kind of world do you think we're headed into? The one that we came out of or the one that we're in in, in early 2023, mid 23. So I'll

9 (23m 16s):
Go back to that phrase I used before at risk of being repetitive uncertainty. There's a wide band of uncertainty, there's a lot of very credentialed, very proven smart people who respectfully disagree on this issue. But in terms of my own inkling, I think will probably end up somewhere in between, right? It seems inevitable to me and to many of other reporters that the Fed will eventually have to ease from their current rate position. For example, a guy that I know at, you know, JP Morgan that's very high up there and well respected, he as well as another investment forum called Bespoke. Both think that inflation could be below 3% by early next year. And that even if we have a nasty temporary uptick in inflation in the next month or two, that the overall yearly rate could still be below four by sometime in summer.

9 (24m 5s):
At which point people might say, well fed, it looks like you're actually sort of winning your fight on inflation. Especially since a lot of the data that we get on inflation lags behind us, right? Often we're talking about data that is a month or more behind the president. And so That would put a lot of pressure on the Fed to cut rates because if the point of a 5.25% interest rate is to get inflation down and inflation is now seemingly coming down, heading back towards two-ish percent, then maybe it could be time to ease, especially if the trade off could be what some might say is unnecessary pain on small businesses and those employed by small businesses as well as large businesses.

9 (24m 52s):
But the flip side of that is that the country does really seem to be scarred by recent inflation, right? And I think there'll be a hesitation to cut rates too much. Certainly I don't think there's a big coalition for going back to 0% or near 0% anytime soon. You know, the, the funny thing here is that, you know, the, there, there were clearly some excesses that did come from having a near zero rate, right? Hmm. The animal spirits kind of got crazy. There was a lot of froth, right? I'm sure we all remember, you know, reading about, you know, scooter companies value that billions of dollars based on no proven track record, right? Things got a little bit crazy and so it, it does seem like there'll be somewhat of a hangover that makes it so that we end up somewhere in the middle ground.

1 (25m 45s):
Taman Joseph Smith covers economics. You can find more of his work at a little newspaper called The New York Times Miles. Bryan and Amanda Lou Ellen produced today's show. Matthew Collette, edited Russ Hannaman, advised Michael Rayfield and Paul Robert Mosey, engineered, I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.