0 (0s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast by New York magazine. That's got a lot of people on edge. What is the name?

1 (6s):
Number one rule. We would all go. Don't your client.

0 (11s):
It's a gnarly personal look at the underground psychedelic therapy world and its boundary problems.

1 (17s):
All my clients try to have sex with me during these sessions. And I was like, I don't think I'm going to try to have sex with you. And he's like, yeah,

0 (27s):
You will cover story. Season one, power trip, check it out on apple podcasts or wherever you listen

3 (42s):
Sports. We don't talk about them enough on this show, but we try to sneak them in here and there this, this year we covered the Olympics a few times we talked about tennis and one time we talked about one NBA MVP. That episode ended up being one of our team's favorites for the year. So we thought we'd bring it to you one last time before the year's out, it's called an MVP for the world. You might remember it from August, but for all those who feel like August was a lifetime and a vaccination and a wave and an entire variant to go here. It is again, A few weeks ago, a very tall Greek, Nigerian basketball, God named Yannis.

3 (1m 30s):
<em></em> brought a championship to the city of Milwaukee and his story is simply a little too irresistible to pass up. So if you'll indulge us for a minute here, I promise you won't regret it In the league. They call Yannis the Greek freak. It's not disrespect. He's okay with

6 (1m 50s):
Definitely not my nickname. I don't know who came out with it, but the way I play, a lot of people say you're a freakishly athletic

3 (1m 58s):
To be fair. He is extremely tall.

5 (2m 1s):
Can you imagine a 42 year old mentally trying to stop that out of quarter eight

7 (2m 9s):
Jada's is nearly seven feet tall, but he handles the ball. Like he is a point guard. He can dazzle and move and flow on the court with such agility and such grace and yet be so forceful. So dominant. You just do not see somebody do the freakish things. He does such as chase down a defender and block him or rise up from the complete end of the other side of the court and block a shot. He dunks with such terror that people just run out of the way

5 (2m 41s):
Through the rent. We'll fill that one tomorrow.

3 (2m 48s):
Mirin fader is a writer at the ringer. She's also wrapping up an entire book about Yonis called Yonis, and she spends a lot of time in her book writing about the Greek half of his

7 (2m 60s):
Nickname. Basketball is becoming more international than ever. And people are wondering whether Yon is, can become the face of the league. And he's been held up as this national hero to his home country in Greece. People have fallen in love with his story and called it a fairy tale, but it is so much more complex than that. And the way that Yonis is grappling with his identity as being a child of parents that migrated to Greece from Nigeria, somebody that grew up in Greece, but often dealt with racism and being undocumented. It's just part of his story. That's been swept under the rug. And so now that he's won this championship, everybody suddenly wants to know everything about him.

7 (3m 42s):
And I think honestly, as wonderful as he is on the basketball court, as dominant as he is, as much as what he has done is honestly us witnessing greatness in real time. I think basketball is the least interesting part about him. So Yonis his parents, Charles and Veronica, they both grew up in Nigeria and around the seventies and eighties, they are thinking about moving somewhere because oil, which is really valued in Nigeria is plummeting and the economy is not doing well. And there's various forms of political unrest. And they're thinking about going to Germany, Charles was a semi-pro soccer player.

7 (4m 28s):
And so he had an opportunity to play there, but unfortunately he got injured and they couldn't stay there. And so they decided to go to Greece and that's where Yonis and his brothers were born. But because Greece does not offer birthright citizenship, they were all essentially undocumented. And they settled in a neighborhood called <em></em> and <em></em> is in Athens, it's working class and Yonis and his family really struggled. They could not get jobs or access to renting certain apartments or getting a passport or opening a bank account. What did they do to survive, to get by the family sold trinkets on the street.

7 (5m 8s):
And they would go to nearby markets, even though they didn't have permits and they would sell whatever they could find

6 (5m 14s):
Glasses watches. Then you still see these.

7 (5m 19s):
They would often leave as a family for a week or two to go to upscale beaches, such as Ali, most beach. And they would try to sell it to richer people and Yannis his entire childhood was consumed by this rhythm of selling and moving and selling and moving. And it was hard for him growing up in the nineties, trying to figure out how he can sell items to help his family. And also look out for his brothers. Yannis had a kind of authority over his younger brothers, Kostas, us and Alex. And they were in awe of him. They followed everything he did. So even though the family could not make ends meet at times to have food, Yanis would give whatever portion.

7 (6m 3s):
He had a food to his younger brothers

6 (6m 6s):
Out of money, but we had a lot of happiness. So it wasn't broken happiness wise. You know, when we were struggling back in the day we were all together. Yeah.

3 (6m 14s):
They were braving financial hardship, but also neo-Nazis

7 (6m 19s):
Yeah. At this time there was a group called golden Dawn. This is

8 (6m 24s):
Terrifying, modern face of fascism, a warning siren to the world from the streets of

7 (6m 31s):
Neo Nazi criminal organization that would chase migrants, stab migrants, even murder migrants. They would go and work in class neighborhoods like suppose CLIA where Yonis grew up like other close by neighborhoods, like keep Sally or coast. And they would say things like blood honor, golden Dawn greases for Greeks It didn't just happen with golden Dawn. It was just the everyday attitudes of normal white Greeks Yonis. And his brothers would be walking to a nearby cafe, Kiva LTOs cafe where the owner Yana seekers would give them food.

7 (7m 18s):
And the people in the restaurant would say, why are you giving to the black kids?

3 (7m 23s):
How much of these early years where he's trying to help his family get by by street vending and trying to help his brothers survive by sharing his portions with them. Does he spend playing basketball?

7 (7m 35s):
Yanis doesn't spend any of it playing basketball. He is not even on his radar. He's a soccer player, soccer, you know, soccer. Now I know, I know why Yonis has the magical footwork. Yes. He was a soccer player and he wanted to be just like his dad. His dad was his hero, his role model. And they would play pickup soccer. Charles' 40 something breezing down the field, giving it to Yonis. He and his brothers were mostly strikers and basketball. I don't even think he heard of basketball until age 13. And that is when this man a random white man who does not know Yonis and his brother's named Spiros belly Nazis just watches the boys playing tag one day And Spiros, as he tells me feels he has some sort of cosmic divine intervention from above that says, this kid is special.

7 (8m 31s):
He's destined for greatness.

10 (8m 33s):
I can put psychology. And as far as his eyes Australia, this apartment, when I make, you

7 (8m 49s):
Know, I know what you're thinking, this sounds ridiculous.

3 (8m 52s):
He's on a playground. And some guy just walks up to him and it's like, you you're the next star of the NBA.

7 (8m 59s):
And Yannis is not a star. He is 13 years old, lanky as all get out. He is coordinated because he plays soccer, but he's not talented in basketball. He's just running around. And so Spiros who I believe really does like to embellish this story still, we can give him credit. He identified Yonis as being athletic and invited him to play for a team that he helped coach called field athletic coasts at practices in a very small gym with cracked windows and a broken rim. And here's this man that says, will you play for me? And Yonis is thinking, I don't have time to play for you.

7 (9m 40s):
I have to help my family put food on the table. Spiros offers to give him in the family money. If <em></em> gives it a shot with not too many options out there, Yonis agrees. The problem is he hates basketball.

3 (9m 52s):
At first, he hates basketball.

7 (9m 54s):
He's not somebody that just took to it immediately. He would commit travel violation after travel violation,

3 (10m 1s):
Not used to holding the ball,

7 (10m 3s):
Right? He's like, I'm sorry. I am used to moving with my feet, but his oldest brother Thanassis loves basketball. And so Yonis is like, Hmm. If that means I get to hang out with my brother, I guess I'll keep going. But they don't practice regularly because Yannis keeps having to leave every couple of days and then he's gone. And then he comes back and then he leaves. And then he leaves for more stretches three weeks at a time because he's going to these upscale beaches with his family to sell items. And the coaches, they know Yonis. Isn't ready to be a star basketball player yet, but they know that he's tall. They know that he has a good work ethic and he is kind of a natural in terms of running and jumping and moving.

7 (10m 45s):
And so they keep trying to convince him to come back to the gym. And at one point Spiros comes to Yonis his apartment and he gives him a book on the legend Maradona. And he says, you could be the marijuana of basketball. And Yannis is just like, okay, dude, he doesn't believe it, but he's like, I'll come back. And then something miraculous happens in the next couple of years, Yannis falls in love with basketball and he gets really good, but he's still not good enough for the top two teams. And even if he is, he doesn't have the proper documentation. So essentially Yonis is stuck in this a two division, but he is dreaming of becoming something so much more.

3 (11m 27s):
He can't advance in Greek basketball because he's an undocumented immigrant. But how do Greek basketball fans react to seeing this undocumented Nigerian giant in their minor leagues? Yeah,

7 (11m 44s):
The away games were really awful for Yonis. Anthony ASAs fans would hurl racist insults at them. One game was the worst in a place called tricolor and fans just kept screaming go home monkeys. And that happened often on the road. It was really painful because there was nothing Yonis could say or do you know, he's in the game. He hears it. And it's devastating. And I talked with a lot of his friends about it as well. And it was just very painful. And Alex Yonis, his youngest brother told me, you know, we've, we've been treated like outsiders, our entire lives. Like yes, there were people that were kind to us and made us feel like racism.

7 (12m 25s):
Wasn't a problem. This is Alex saying this, but that doesn't mean that everyone else did. And not only is he made aware of this on the basketball court, but he is constantly having the anxiety and the fear that his parents will get deported at any moment. So Yon is just tries to keep his head down and go about his business and try to play the best basketball he can. But there is this fear, always gnawing at him that someday somebody could call the police and that would be it. His parents would be gone.

3 (12m 57s):
When does that become something he doesn't have to worry about anymore?

7 (13m 0s):
The NBA hears about Yonis and all the Scouts are whispering amongst themselves. Who is this kid? I've never heard of him because usually prospects in the American system and even internationally as well, but particularly from America are identified as early as 13 years old, Yannis was busy, hating basketball at 13 years old. So it is extremely rare to have a scout find out about a first round prospect at age 17. But that's what happened with Yannis. A video circulated among Scouts. Yanas had agents and the agents sent the video to Scouts and it was very hard to tell how good Yonis was from this video because the film was grainy.

7 (13m 44s):
You weren't sure how tall he was, but they are intrigued. And they see somebody that is very fast and coordinated and smart and has good court vision. And of course that freakish size. And so 30 GMs and more and Scouts come to this little tiny gym in Zola Fu, which is where I feel like the clothes is based and there's not even enough chairs for them. I found that the coaches told me they weren't anticipating so many Scouts. They had to go get more plastic chairs to fit all these American coaches. And so here yanas finally has this shot. He just has to prove himself in front of these Scouts. And his family will no longer have to worry about money.

7 (14m 26s):
So naturally he's a bit nervous, but he performs well enough that the Milwaukee bucks want to take a chance on him. But in order for that to happen, Yon has to get his citizenship papers. And remember he's undocumented, his brothers are undocumented, his parents are undocumented, but then once Yonis is named starts circulating as somebody that might climb above NBA draft boards, the Greek government is like, oh, I guess we have to give him papers. And I interviewed the prime minister at the time who played a large role in that Antonis Samaras.

7 (15m 8s):
And it was very clear to me that the only reason he gave citizenship to Yonis and Vanessa is, is because they had a chance at the NBA.

3 (15m 19s):
Does it making it to the NBA style? All his problems?

7 (15m 22s):
No. His problems actually intensify in a number of ways. Once he gets to Milwaukee

0 (15m 38s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast by New York magazine, that's got a lot of people on edge.

1 (15m 44s):
What is the number one rule we would all go. Don't

0 (15m 48s):
Your clients. It's a gnarly personal look at the underground psychedelic therapy world and its boundary problems.

1 (15m 55s):
All my clients try to have sex with me during these sessions. And I was like, I don't think I'm going to try to have sex with you. And he's like, yeah, you will

0 (16m 6s):
Cover story. Season one, power trip, check it out on apple podcasts or wherever you listen.

3 (16m 13s):
Hello, 2022 is going to be a big year with lots of complex problems that people need to understand and potential solutions. We love the solutions at box to help us plan our coverage. The Vox is aiming to add 6,000 financial contributions from readers by December 31st, by the end of the year, you can give once that helps keep our work free. You can also make a monthly or annual recurring gift, which helps keep our work free and also helps us plan ahead. Please help us get there by making a gift today. Just go to vox.com/give. Thank you so much

13 (16m 57s):
With the 15th pick in the 2013 NBA draft, the Milwaukee bucks see lack yanas deco Columbo from Athens, Greece. He last played in Greece.

3 (17m 20s):
It's a mirror where we left off Yannis is finally drafted to the Milwaukee bucks. He's officially a Greek citizen finally, but his problems aren't solved by getting into the NBA.

7 (17m 32s):
First of all, he is learning the language. He can speak English enough to understand sort of what people are saying, but we're talking about learning. Hundreds of plays in the best league in the world. And coaches talk really fast and Yannis was constantly playing catch up, trying to learn English phrases, learning new things about American food.

6 (17m 52s):
So after that, I went to the table and then I was sitting and that show coach standing up and going back. And like when he came back, I was like, what are you doing? You can't do that. He's a move fail first. You can do that. You can like go and take as many tests as you want. I didn't know that like I was like putting food on my plate,

7 (18m 9s):
But I think the biggest thing was that he was lonely. I was in

6 (18m 12s):
The gym mode day. I was sleeping in the gym. I ain't had nothing to do. Like I was going back home and I couldn't even watch TV. I didn't know how to work the TV over here

7 (18m 24s):
Without his family who were still stuck in Greece because they did not get papers fast track the way he did. He just felt utterly alone.

3 (18m 32s):
How does he develop as a Midwesterner and as a basketball player,

7 (18m 39s):
The bucks were god-awful that year and they only won 15 games,

3 (18m 45s):
15, 15 good heavens.

7 (18m 47s):
So he gets thrust into the game because they're so bad because there's nothing at stake. And he actually gets to develop by making mistakes and learning on the fly. It's actually the best thing for him. Milwaukee also had a support staff in the organization that cared about him as a human being. They taught them how to drive. They were there for him through his dark moments. They stayed up late with him into the night when he felt lonely, they were always making sure that his mental health was okay because they realized he was a big part of their future. And even though he hadn't developed yet, he was going to at some point, and then finally his family gets the proper documentation that they need to, to come over, which might I add, might not have happened if the Buck's owner was not a us Senator in herb Cole.

7 (19m 37s):
And so finally it is rumored from the people that I spoke to that were really knowledgeable about the situation and the ins and outs of how this worked with the government is that it's rumored, that it went all the way up to the secretary of state, John Kerry at the time who helped make this happen. So there were a lot of people looking out for you, honest behind the scenes to make this happen.

3 (19m 57s):
Okay. So it takes a now retired Senator herb Kohl of Kohl's department store fame. Plus John Kerry of, I don't know, I ran for president fame who knows what else to get Yannis his family out to Milwaukee with them. Once they get there, does it change his game?

7 (20m 18s):
It changes his game. Completely. Yonis is happy. He's comfortable. He's walking around with a brightness about him. I mean, he has so much gumption that he walks up to his assistant coach, Josh Oppenheimer, when they're about to play the Knicks and says, I'm going to bus Carmelo Anthony's ass. Okay. We're talking about Carmelo Anthony, Carmelo Anthony in his prime on the Knicks baller. Jada's at the time scrawny scrub, but he, he honestly was so amped and he just loved the fact that his family was there to watch him do it. And when they played the Knicks, Charles, the dad, Veronica, they were so happy.

7 (21m 2s):
They were high-fiving. Each other. Alex was screaming at the top of his lungs, his head tilted so far back up to the sky. I mean, they were living a dream and it was so wonderful to see.

3 (21m 13s):
Hm. How does he go from being like a scrawny rookie on a team that has like 15 wins to the guy we just saw when the championship

7 (21m 22s):
Yanis practically lives in the weight room would not have been surprised if he had a sleeping bag in there. He weight lifted so much that everyone started to make fun of him because he would, for example, do bench press and then go in front of the mirror and flex and see if he saw any gains.

3 (21m 42s):
I'm saying, is that the first dude to do that though?

7 (21m 44s):
It's just like, I'm going to get big. I'm going to be just like LeBron, I'm going to get better. You know, they're not going to know what's coming from me. And you know, the image of Yonis at that time, it's like, okay, he's so adorable. We love him. And his family. He loves smoothies. How cute Yonis is like, I'm done being cute. Like I need to get mean. He puts in a tremendous amount of work. He's still kind of skinny, but he puts on muscle and miraculously grows two inches. And that enables him to compete with the best of the best. And he just shows these glimmers of brilliance. He is a tremendous defender. He even makes three pointers, which is not part of his game.

7 (22m 25s):
And he just has this knack to get to the basket. And he starts learning his powers and realizing he can just dunk on people. And he completely transforms into a superstar.

14 (22m 38s):
He's the best player in the world period. He did it every single way. It could be done. Last night, he drove to the bucket. He posted up, he hit mid range shots. He hit three point shots. He blocked the best big man in the league. Four times he led the fast break. He had 11 points in the fourth quarter. He had a latest sit. I mean, what else could he do in his?

3 (23m 3s):
So Yannis, beefs up and develops this mean face. And he becomes a much better player.

7 (23m 10s):
He becomes a great player. Everything seems to be working for him. He is somebody that we're putting now in conversations about potential league MVP. He is dominating on the offensive end, the defensive end. He's one of the games best. And then tragedy strikes again. His dad, Charles dies of a heart attack at age 54. You know, Yanis always wanted to be like his father. He looked up to him since he was a child wanting to be that soccer player. His dad was always inspiring him and the work ethic required to achieve anything in life.

6 (23m 48s):
You know, I've said this before, you know, my dad had no money, you know, had nothing. So his wealth was us. That's why we tried to represent him in the best way possible. Every single day.

7 (24m 1s):
When I went to their home, I was in their basement and they had this large, beautiful portrait of Yonis and his brothers ascending up in various basketball poses with the words I am my father's legacy. And so, you know, Yanis really changes after that because for him, family is the most important thing in the world, far more important than basketball. And so they just cling tighter as a family after that.

3 (24m 26s):
And it's not long after that, that he's given the opportunity to leave Milwaukee. Right?

7 (24m 30s):
Exactly. So at the height of Yonis is fame. Now their speculations that he might leave because he would be eligible for a supermax extension, which is a lot of money given to Laura, a player to stay with the franchise. And it becomes this huge media circus. Did

6 (24m 47s):
Yonis leave Milwaukee and go chase a rain?

7 (24m 50s):
Absolutely. It needs to go, will the generational player leave just like the last one?

15 (24m 55s):
What time tomorrow? Kareem Abdul-Jabbar will officially become a member of the Los

6 (24m 59s):
Angeles Lakers

7 (24m 60s):
Because Milwaukee was too small for him.

3 (25m 3s):
And I'm guessing he decides to stick.

16 (25m 4s):
Yes, you are looking at a picture now of the home bridge, which is lit up blue and white and honor of the Greek flag and honor of the Greek freak here in Milwaukee. And of course, everywhere

7 (25m 18s):
And Milwaukee either took a deep breath, cried, danced. I mean, everyone I talked to just can remember the exact moment where they were when Jada said he was staying

3 (25m 29s):
And he doesn't just stay. He goes from being a kid who didn't have enough food to eat on the table and giving his food to his brothers, to becoming like a rich, rich, rich basketball player,

7 (25m 43s):
$228 million. The highest contract in NBA history. He is so overcome with emotion. He said his dad would be dancing right now. If he saw him sign this deal,

6 (25m 55s):
I was happy was that I need to do, you know, discuss with my agent, you know, the team, my family, you know, talk to my mother. I asked my mother, do you want to move? She said, no. So, okay, cool. I'm just going to sign the deal.

7 (26m 11s):
Money is something that Yonis has contended with his entire NBA career. He was deeply hesitant to spend it when he first got to America. So fearful that all of this goodness and happiness and wealth could be taken away as quickly as it came, because he was so used to not having enough

3 (26m 28s):
To becoming this $228 million man. How long does he have to wait before he gets to taste that real MBA victory?

7 (26m 36s):
Well, in a surprise to yours, truly who is writing the book, it would only take another year to win a championship on the biggest stage in the world.

17 (26m 49s):
The fuck's a better way to say that after I'm half century, the Milwaukee bucks are NBA champions. Once again,

7 (26m 58s):
And the bucks rebound from a pandemic year, which is also filled with so many protests in which the books are at the forefront. And Yonis is very much a part of that and speaks out.

18 (27m 18s):
I want my kid to have hate in his heart.

7 (27m 22s):
The bucks continue to persevere and persevere and they pull off the unthinkable. Not only do they reach the NBA finals, they win the title. And the honest scores, 50 points in a game, six victory that immortalizes him as not only one of the all time grades, but now everyone's saying, could he be the face of the NBA right now?

19 (27m 44s):
Thank you for believing in me and know my teammates, man. They, they played hard. They would pick every freaking game. You know, I trusted his team. I want you to do it, sharing the city I wanted to do with this guy. So I'm happy. I'm happy available to I get it done

3 (28m 2s):
And to celebrate it, he didn't end up going to Disney world or whatever. He went to Chick-fil-A and he brought both of his trophies.

18 (28m 9s):
These trophies are not living my side. What if all of a sudden I wake up and this is all a dream.

7 (28m 16s):
My favorite thing is that he is doing this live. And he says to the woman taking his order,

18 (28m 22s):
Do you mind? Or no, just this hundred 50,000 people watching you right now. Really?

7 (28m 29s):
You know, it's just so yada, it's like asking, you know, and then they have this adorable moment. He's like,

18 (28m 35s):
Can I have please a 50 piece Mac minis, 50. Exactly. That's 51, none 49 chicken me these years. 50. That's why they loved him

7 (28m 47s):
So much. He's so relatable. I mean, who among us has not had a Chick-Filet stop.

18 (28m 51s):
Thank you. And then can I, oh man,

3 (28m 58s):
For someone who probably follows basketball a lot closer than a lot of people in our audience, what does this win mean? That you know, Yanis at that's a combo got this championship for the bucks. And what does that mean for the league and for the game?

7 (29m 12s):
He is living in an era where a super teams are built. The best stars go to all one team and they're stacked and people are angry because they say it disrupts the integrity of the game. And Yonis is like, I'm not going to join a super team. I'm going to stick with my small town, small market team, and we're going to build something and we're going to struggle from 15 wins and keep getting better and better and better and put in the work and win. And he proved that that is possible. And whether or not they win another title, he has changed the city of Milwaukee forever. Not only did he stay as we talked about, but he helped Milwaukee stay. You know, one thing we didn't discuss was there was a period of time since the eighties, in which the Milwaukee bucks were always in grave danger of leaving the city because they did not attract a lot of fans.

7 (30m 6s):
The arenas that they played in such as the Bradley center were not modern. And you know, Adam silver said, by the time you almost got there, you know, you need to have a better arena or this team might leave and Milwaukee and saw the Seattle Supersonics leave. They knew it could be them. So yanas comes and turns into a star and Milwaukee starts selling out games and he literally saves the franchise from leaving.

3 (30m 33s):
Not only that, but it feels like in doing so. He sort of reminded the country in a pretty dark period. It seems like of the American dream. And it's ironic, of course, because he's not even American. He wasn't even Greek until the MBA took interest in him. And he wasn't even Nigerian until sometime after that, do you think his story is big enough and remarkable enough that he changed anyone's attitudes towards immigrants? Be it in Western Europe or here in the United States?

7 (31m 14s):
It's complicated because certainly there is a level of inspiration to his story. For example, I talked to a lot of young black migrant kids growing up in Greece right now that picked up a basketball because of Jada's. But even as yanas ascended to global superstardom and a real symbol of hope for Greeks to clink to there were still so many in Greece to this day that say racist things about him, that draws Watts because on murals of him. And I think that people have a really hard time of holding both of those things in their heads at once, that he can be proud of a country that does not always treat him.

7 (31m 58s):
Well. He can be honest about his experiences of not being treated well and his experiences of being treated with dignity and respect. So I think that to talk about yanas, we have to talk about all these other factors because he doesn't exist in a bubble. Yonis is Greek and Nigerian and an adopted son of Milwaukee. And this idea of home is fascinating to me. Milwaukee is home now, but so polio is still home. And if he decides to explore his roots in Legos, Legos will be home.

7 (32m 46s):
And I think Yannis his fluidity with identity and the way that he's exploring those sides, show me that this is a kid that grew up feeling, not necessarily belonging anywhere he belongs in all of those places.

19 (33m 1s):
Yeah. Just believe man, just, I hope, I hope, I hope I give people around the world from Africa, from Europe, give them hope. You know that it can be done. It can be done eight years ago, eight and a half years ago, I came to the league. I didn't know where my next move will come from. You know, my mom was selling stock in the street, like, and now I'm share sitting at the top of the top, you know? And I, and, and I'm extremely blessed and that's why I cannot, I can never get, I'm extremely blessed if I, if I never have the chance to sit on this table ever again, I find with it, I find with it.

19 (33m 41s):
But like, I hope this can give everybody around the world hope and I love them to believe in their dreams,

3 (34m 2s):
Mirroring fader. She's the author of Yannis, the improbable rise of an NBA MVP. You can find it wherever you find your books. I'm Sean Ramez from it's today. Explain the show is made by Amina. <em></em> a FIM Shapiro, Matthew Collette, Myles Brian Halima, Shaw Hottie, Milwaukee will read and Victoria Chamberlain. Our facts are checked by Laura Bullard. We had extra help this week from Paul Z and Christian nyala and Jillian Weinberger, Liz Kelly and Nelson is the VP of audio here at Vox. We use music from Breakmaster cylinder and no I'm Hassenfeld. You can get in touch with us anytime at today, explained to box.com.

3 (34m 45s):
Thank you so much for listening. This is the last big show we're doing this year, but we'll have a little nice, surprising kind of treat for you tomorrow. Today explained as part of the Vox media podcast network.

0 (35m 22s):
Cover story, a new investigative podcast from New York magazine. That's uncovering some secrets from the psychedelic underground.

20 (35m 30s):
So basically in December of 2019, Dave got an email from this woman. Hi there

1 (35m 37s):
Student at California Institute of integral studies in the weekend program. I had an experience in my first two years where I was essentially recruited by a TA into an underground guide training program.

20 (35m 50s):
She had been training to become a psychedelic therapist with Francoise and her husband in this underground training program that they had. Hello. And she'd already reached out to James Kent, another podcast, or that we know this is

1 (36m 2s):
James. Hi,

20 (36m 3s):
How are you? Because she was feeling really weirded out by.

1 (36m 6s):
I felt like I woke up from something and I was like, who else is awake? You're on speakerphone. Do you mind if I record this conversation, w

20 (36m 18s):
Listening to the tape of her, I was

1 (36m 20s):
Just sort of reaching out to you. Cause I'm like, okay,

20 (36m 22s):
It's really clear that she was trying to find other people who understood what she'd been through or who could see what she saw.

1 (36m 30s):
I really appreciate it if you didn't use my name or anything. No.

20 (36m 35s):
And eventually she was sent to us.

1 (36m 38s):
I was searching for anyone who like

20 (36m 42s):
I get it and talking to her is actually what really kicked off our investigation.

0 (36m 48s):
Checkout cover story, season one power trip on apple or wherever you listen,