1 (4s):
Hey, I'm Sean Rama's for him at this is a coronavirus update from today explained for Monday, March 23rd. 2020. It's been a hectic 24 hours for the Olympics yesterday the head of the international Olympic Committee said that the ioc had ruled out canceling the games but was open to postponing them shortly thereafter, Canada and Australia became the first two countries to say, they would not send athletes to KO at the games went ahead as scheduled then this afternoon ioc veteran dick pound told USA Today that the games would be postponed until 2021 with the details to be figured out in the next month Canadian Prime Minister.

1 (45s):
Justin Trudeau got mad today. He said in a press conference. We've all seen the pictures online of people who seem to think they're Invincible. Well, you're not enough is enough go home and stay home. He threatened to use law enforcement to enforce the rules if Necessary President Trump seemed mad today to he all caps tweeted. This is why we need borders exclamation point the United States Senate failed to agree on what's now a two trillion dollar stimulus package that would show up the country during the coronavirus crisis the Crux of the disagreement appears to be a four hundred twenty five billion dollar fund the treasury secretary Steven minuchin could use to Aid American companies Mitch McConnell was all are you kidding me to Democrats and the Democrats were all oversight, please and What about workers complicating matters further McConnell needs more Democrats to vote for this thing than usual because several Republicans are now in quarantine after Senator Rand Paul tested positive for covid-19 over the weekend.

1 (1m 44s):
One of the now quarantine Senators is Mitt Romney of Utah when President Trump was asked about GOP senators in quarantine yesterday. He said Romney's and isolation. Gee that's too bad in case you were wondering if an adult was in charge looks like maybe know If you have questions for the show, email us today explained it vox.com. You can tweet at us to today underscore explained. I'm a traumas firm. This episode is brought to you by Lending Club. You could find me in the club. If you're carrying revolving debt, you could be paying thousands of dollars in interest every year, but you don't have to Lending Club is the number one peer-to-peer lending platform and can help you consolidate your debt or pay off credit cards with one fixed monthly payment.

1 (2m 34s):
If you want to learn more go to Lending Club.com / explained that's right. This club has a website / explained check your weight and minutes and bar up to $40,000 at Lending Club.com explained make it rain at Lending Club.com / explained anyway all loans made by web Bank member FDIC Equal Housing lender. Sounds cool. Let's not mince words here death is in the air. People are sick. People are dying. We get tallies everyday from Italy from the United States from just New York City alone. We're worried about our loved ones.

1 (3m 14s):
It's It's hard to not think about the end of life. But there's a lot of people in the world who are focusing on the other end of life on creating it. I mean think about how many people are at home right now with nothing to do with their significant other right? I mean in nine months we're going to see a lot of babies may be named Corey or or Rona or falchi, but you know, we'll get to that later. What about people trying to give birth right now? A lot of people are thinking about that including today explained MVP Jillian Weinberger.

3 (3m 48s):
Yes. I am Sean and I'm thinking about this because for many women being pregnant and going through childbirth is the first major medical event. They've ever gone through there's all these doctors appointments. There's the hospital stay some of them have to have surgery and now they're having to do all of this in the middle of a pandemic with a lot of unknowns

1 (4m 10s):
and we know one of these pregnant women going through all this right now,

3 (4m 13s):
Now we do faxes Julia Baloo's our Healthcare reporter. She has been reporting on coronavirus from her based in Vienna Austria. And as of last Monday, she was nearly 40 weeks pregnant about five days out from her due date and this is when you called her up. Yeah, I gave her a call because I just wanted to see how she was doing and she ended up taking me through what has to be one of the most dramatic days of her life.

4 (4m 39s):
I'm due on Friday and we had planned to Wait for that to have a childbirth that didn't have any extra medical interventions that were necessary. But over the last few days the case stolen Austria has escalated quite dramatically and because of what's Happening across the border in Italy the country has effectively gone the way of Italy and entirely shut down. Oh, wow, as I was talking to sources about what was happening in Italy last week some of them knew I was pregnant and they started to bring up this idea that I should consider an induction before the healthcare system was overwhelmed here like it is in Italy and when they when a couple of people first brought this up, I thought it sounded kind of crazy and then things have escalated here so dramatically in the last couple of days that I started to talk to my doctor over the weekend about whether he thinks we should consider an induction and today I went in for a checkup.

4 (5m 41s):
We had an ultrasound and thankfully. Everything looked fine with the baby and then we started to ask about covid-19 and how the hospital Was preparing for that and just over the last few days. They've started to screen people who are entering and only spouses of pregnant women can come into the hospital and they're also screened for their travel history and their temperature and any symptoms that they may be having and he said as of today there are no cases in the hospital, but Things are changing by the half an hour here. So we came home from that appointment and kind of weighed the risks and benefits and we think that the risks of having to have the baby in a much more precarious hospital and Health Care environment.

4 (6m 32s):
We think that the risks of that outweigh the risks of doing this induction. How do you feel about it? I honestly I can't even process any of this like I absolutely didn't think we were going to consider an induction tonight, but viruses have ways of surprising people and societies even viruses that we know about for a long long time. Like I've had a very hard time predicting where anything is going in this pandemic and I think most people have and I've tried to look for patterns and you know talk to some of the most knowledgeable people in the world over the last few months since I started covering this It's very very hard to discern where things are going.

4 (7m 17s):
I think when we had when I started to report on what was happening in Italy and talk to people there. It became clear that it really could be anywhere. You know, what happened in Northern Italy could be a town in the US next week or could be Vienna this week. And and I think just that uncertainty is what made us think. Hopefully we're making the best decision tonight.

3 (7m 43s):
Do you think a lot of other pregnant women are making the same

4 (7m 46s):
decision to have my doctor? So he's getting these requests from patients now about induction. So I hope researchers are starting to look at how among the tons of data that this pandemic is going to generate how how this will affect maternity care because yeah, he's said he's absolutely getting these requests. He just didn't do someone yesterday for the same reason. She was due in the next couple of days and wanted to avoid this potential. That we we think is probably coming to the health system, but I definitely don't want to encourage a run on on induction sir C-sections. Like again, we're rate across the border from Italy where they've had the biggest outbreak outside of China and the cases here are doubling every other day.

4 (8m 32s):
So there is this potential for real like Mega Healthcare disruption year on the scale that we've seen in Italy where doctors have had to turn to rationing care and routine care has completely ground to a halt that we're really lucky to be in a place where there is a very strong health system and there is universal access to health care and like we didn't need to worry about the cost of like being in an out-of-network hospital or you know, all the added stresses that people in the US have right now and and the stresses that people and health systems that aren't as prepared as Austria what will face in this crisis so is crazy as all of this is we're still privilege to be here and to have access to that.

3 (9m 28s):
That was Julia on Monday afternoon last week by Monday evening. She was on her way to the hospital to give birth and she kept the updates coming. Here's the first from 8:30 p.m. Vienna time. Julia was on her way to the hospital with her husband Axl.

2 (9m 44s):
There's not a soul on the streets. Basically, we've just picked up a car share and this is one time where you don't think about the downsides of not owning a car in a pandemic. You don't really want to do a car share but we have no other choice Axl. How are you feeling? Absolutely ready and surreal doing this in a pandemic. What do you wearing on your hands gloves? We both have surgical gloves on we haven't been really supporting them. But trying to minimize any risk and right before we left for the hospital.

2 (10m 26s):
We got a text message from our Midwife telling us they once again the protocols at the hospital had changed and then once we enter for the induction We basically can't leave again. So we can't go in and out of the hospital. So we had to quickly scramble and pack some extra

3 (10m 46s):
underwear. 20 minutes later Julia arrived at the hospital

2 (10m 51s):
are so fever 9 no, no, cough. No sore throats and so stroke and mine China South Korea Iran Hong Kong to Germany, France Spain Austria u.s. Know so we just checked into the hospital had our temperature checked attends our questionnaire, but our travel history and whether we had any symptoms of covid-19 Thankfully we could answer no way right now and we're just going to go up to check

3 (11m 23s):
in and about an hour later.

4 (11m 26s):
We just heard from the Midwife that in the hospital that's attached to this one already next to it Affiliated that they have an anesthesiologist who tested positive without symptoms and a bunch of people were exposed. It feels a little bit like a ticking time bomb that they're going to have some problem here, too.

2 (11m 48s):
It's eerily come on the other hand. So it's not very very quiet. So it's a difficult thing to get your head around terms of what's really going

1 (11m 59s):
on. more from Julia and Jillian after the break on today explained A word from Lending Club. If you don't mind, if you're caring revolving debt, that means you're not paying off your credit card every month and could be paying thousands in interest every year that you don't have to Lending Club can help you figure all this stuff out. Just go to Lending Club.com explained. It's a website. Tell them about yourself and how much you want to borrow pick the terms that are right for you. And if you're approved your loan is Ugly deposited into your bank account and as little as a few days, they've been helping people get on top of their debt since 2007.

1 (12m 47s):
They say and have given out millions of affordable fixed rate personal loans. They say you don't have to go to a bank are open another high-interest credit card. They say go to Lending Club.com explain. They say check your rate and minutes and borrow up to $40,000 is a that is lending club.com / explained all loans made by web Bank member FDIC Equal Housing lender. They say bye.

3 (13m 16s):
This is Advertiser content

4 (13m 19s):
climate change the global Refugee

3 (13m 21s):
crisis cybercrime.

4 (13m 23s):
The big issues are huge and we're just a notification away from more bad news. It's leading to something called

3 (13m 29s):
headline stress disorder

4 (13m 31s):
and the first notable spike in stress in a decade and a decade ago. We were knee-deep in a global recession. So why does scrolling through a Newsfeed leave us feeling powerless anxious even afraid we just get a little tired of seeing Some of the worst things that happen on the planet and then walking away that's journalist Nellie for her diet host of course correction a podcast presented by Doha debates and Qatar Foundation. Now, the fur is part of a new generation of journalists who see the news as an opportunity to empower whether it's me trying to figure out how globalization has affected people where I'm from and I've learned to stand in Kabul or challenging myself to figure out how much data and information I put out on the web.

4 (14m 16s):
AB it's focused on trying to get the reality of these big gigantic problems down to an individual level because focusing on what we can solve decreases stress and improves mental health. Every single accomplishment is just it just makes you feel better. I'm hoping course correction is a little bit of shock to the system to make people realize the impact that we have be a part of the conversation for change. Listen to course correction wherever you get your podcast.

1 (14m 48s):
All right Jillian last we left off Julia's at the hospital with her husband axle. They're about to get induced. They're about to do the baby birth thing, but they just found out that this like neighbor anesthesiologist and be like attached hospital has tested positive for covid-19 and has been around a bunch of other people not the best news to be getting as you're about to get induced what happens next

3 (15m 17s):
so That was actually the last update I got from Julia for a while.

4 (15m 22s):
But that was the last thing you

3 (15m 23s):
heard. I know I yeah yikes. I don't want anyone to worry about Julia everything works out. Okay in the end. I promise we'll get to that in a bit. But while I was waiting to hear how it all went. I ended up talking to an OBGYN about what pregnancy and childbirth looks like during a pandemic here in the US. My name is Tina Arrington. I'm a Maternal Fetal Medicine doctor. ER at Boston Medical Center, and I'm also the director of Labor and Delivery there. Dr. Arrington told me that a pandemic can be especially scary for pregnant women because pregnancy changes a woman's immune system in general when you become pregnant. There's a little bit of a shift in the immune system that at its core keeps the woman's body from trying to attack the fetus who would otherwise be seen as an outside organism or something and that shift in the immune system affects the pathway that also protects her against me.

3 (16m 18s):
Any common viral infections? So in principle, yeah, we do think that there's an immune change when you're pregnant that can make you more vulnerable and at first past when coronavirus started to come to the fore that was the Assumption and they're still very cautious language from the CDC, which I think is completely appropriate. However, at this point I feel reassured and try to share this glimmer of positivity with my pregnant patients as well that the early data about coronavirus infection in a pregnant woman. Suggest that it's thank goodness. Not any worse in the woman who is pregnant that she get sick. There's a small risk of getting very sick, but for example, the 28 year old otherwise healthy woman who is pregnant has basically the same course of coronavirus as a 28 year old otherwise healthy woman who is not pregnant that's based on what we currently have and the landscape to be fair as always changing and evolving as we learn more.

3 (17m 15s):
Who are the patients in the studies that have been done so far one of the limitations right now in understanding and interpreting how coronavirus may affect pregnant women may affect anybody for that matter is that the bulk of the data that we have specific to coronavirus is from a large cohort coming out of China. It's good data. It's well organized. It's pretty thorough and detailed. However, when I look at my patient population as a high risk

2 (17m 44s):
a

3 (17m 44s):
provider in an urban center seeing mostly women of color mostly women who are not native to the United States and of wide variety of body shapes and sizes I always have to pause and think about whether or not the study that I'm looking at really is generalizable to the mothers that I am taking care of and with respect to that like I said while I take a note of positivity from the data from these large groups of Chinese these people I always have to wonder how a study that is based on women who look very different from my patients and have a very different range of other health conditions than my patients how that study really translates to my patients there is not yet a study out about how coronavirus plays out in the pregnant woman who has high blood pressure and diabetes and HIV we know that in the general adult population those conditions and Secular seem to confer a higher risk of the infection leading to more complicated disease, but we don't know how that plays out in pregnancy.

3 (18m 54s):
And so I'm still waiting for optimal information for my sicker patients. That's for sure. And what about transmission between Mom and baby? What do we know so far about that the question of transmission from Mom and baby is such a critical one and it's the one that's on the tip of the tongue of most of the patients that I saw this morning and I'm sure most of the patients that I'll see this afternoon and tomorrow. The limited data that we have about that fortunately suggests that there is not transmission while the babies in utero and that is based on studies of the placenta to look and see if there's any virus in the placenta the afterbirth from studies amniotic fluid all of those point to a lack of transmission while the woman is pregnant.

3 (19m 38s):
To be fair. The data is still evolving. And so I'm open to things changing and I tell my patients always that this is the best information that I have right now, but everything seems to point against the possibility of infection while the babies in utero. I feel like our responsibility now to our patients who have coronavirus infection or who we aren't sure yet do not have court run a virus infection but are symptomatic is that the time of delivery making sure that we are being really diligent. Ensuring a safe environment for their newborn because while there doesn't seem to be evidence of the infection transmitting through mom to baby while still inside. Once the baby comes out that baby is as vulnerable to infection as anybody else in that room who isn't wearing a mask.

3 (20m 24s):
And so the recommendation from the CDC what we're doing here as well is if Mom has known coronavirus infection at the time of delivery or if she is symptomatic high-risk, and we don't know yet if we're still waiting for the test results. Result then when that baby is born. The baby is separated from the mom until we had better information. I like I can't even imagine what that's like, I have two kids myself and I am a practitioner with a midwife heart who highly values the birth experience but I also know all the work that goes into the nine months of growing that baby and there's no question. It's the right thing for the sake of the newborn. I know the reporter.

3 (21m 5s):
We talked to earlier the friend of ours at Show that was one of the things she was most concerned about was you know, if she got infected that having to be separated from the baby after the baby was born. I can't even imagine what that would be like. What kinds of questions do your patients have about covid-19? The first ones are the ones that you've already asked if I get it am I going to get critically ill if I get it do I have to live in the hospital and I'll come back to why that's irrelevant for my patients. I think in particular and then if I get it can I give it to my kids? Can I give it to my baby is my baby going to die people really think go down to scary pathway, but I'll tell you this question of will.

3 (21m 49s):
Have to be in the hospital for a long time as a complex one and a safety net setting because for me to say to somebody you have to be in the hospital might mean that there is no one to take care of the other kids at home might mean that there's no one who can make any money for the household. It's a major disruption to their lives not always possible. Yeah, I'm sure how have you been communicating with your patients about this. What do you tell them? This week the information has been coming in and evolving so quickly even the times of what that I'm in doing an ultrasound on somebody have been an opportunity to educate and quell fears.

3 (22m 29s):
And so the ways we're trying to approach that is a thoughtful rescheduling of appointments so that you're only coming in as frequently as we really think is medically necessary will reach out with more phone calls. You'll have probably more contact with us, which will give you a chance to share. What you're feeling about the pregnancy, but also to ask new questions as they come up, but the Counterpoint to that is that I don't want you to be afraid of the hospital. We want to be really cautious with what we asked if you for routine care assuming that all is well and you and the baby are perfect. But if at any point that changes if there's a coronavirus fear if you have cough and fever a new respiratory symptoms, or if you start to have cramping and bleeding or the Baby's not moving.

3 (23m 17s):
You need to know that the hospital this Hospital Boston Medical Center just like every other hospital around New England in the country are taking numerous steps to make sure that when you enter this space that we are making it a safe space for you to engage in care. We're doing everything in our power to reduce the chance that you would be exposed to something untoward with your necessary medical visits here so that you can walk in with confidence that you're worried can be addressed. Your baby can be evaluated and you can continue to receive the best possible care for your pregnancy.

1 (24m 2s):
All right, but Jillian, what about balloons? What happens to Baloo's? Yeah. So Julia Baloo's are Vox reporter and Austria.

3 (24m 11s):
She was a little out of commission after giving birth for a while

1 (24m 15s):
there. What do you mean? She didn't send you a voice memo of getting a deuced? What's the deal Blues? What a

4 (24m 20s):
slacker?

1 (24m 23s):
No, we did not get a voice memo of her getting induced, but she

3 (24m 26s):
did send one a little bit later in the week.

2 (25m 5s):
We just left the hospital and we're on our way home. It's Friday. So on Monday, we made the decision to induce and by Tuesday at 1:00 p.m. We had a very special delivery our first son on the way home from the hospital. We went to bring the baby to meet is Grandpa who lives in Vienna and we had to do it through. Grandpa's standing at the window on the second floor of his old age home and we had to stand outside and basically just wave. So anyway, the very good news is that you know, we were going to the hospital empty-handed and we're bringing home a son.

2 (25m 46s):
We're just so so happy to come home with this new

1 (25m 49s):
life. We are happy for you Baloo's and axel and your baby boy is his name Rona Corey falchi. Let me know you got my email. Julia Blues is a senior health correspondent and fox Jillian Weinberger is a senior producer and reporter at vaux and I'm Sean Rama's from this is the Babe explained

3 (26m 54s):
If there was a spreadable clickable bakeable plant-based butter that was better for your body and the planet what would you make with it butter cookies butter pie? That's a thing by the way, whatever. It is Country Crock plant butter makes it happen and makes it delicious Country Crock plant butter is so tasty even butter lovers love it. You can use it as a one-to-one substitute for dairy butter in all of your favorite recipes and enjoy it knowing it has Percent less saturated fat than regular old dairy butter to try it for yourself. Use the store locator at Country Crock.com plant - butter today.

1 (27m 37s):
I see a lot of people out there on the internet talking about. Oh, I need more stuff to listen to who's got recommendations. I'm at home all day. I want podcasts. Well Have you listened to stay tuned with preach? It's all about Justice power law democracy. Probably coronavirus this point the host preet bharara. He led the southern district of New York the most storied Federal prosecutor's office in the country. He's got you know, he's got a

4 (28m 5s):
True way

1 (28m 7s):
about him. He's got an aura he's got calm. He's got wit and he answers audience questions and speaks with the people who happen to be shaping history right now previous guests include Sally Yates Bryan Stevenson, and some guy named Pete buta judge, never heard of him. Listen now to stay tuned with preet wherever you listen to your podcast where you listen to this one right now, check out stay tuned with breat. I bet you could find it. Bye.