0 (1s):
This podcast is brought to you by Twilio, for businesses around the world, unlocking and unifying real-time customer data is critical, especially for delivering truly personalized campaigns at scale. That's why companies like Instacart into it. And IBM are turning to Twilio, which was recently ranked number one for 2020 market share and customer data platforms by IDC to learn how Twilio can help your business harness real-time data and build customer engagement like no other visit twilio.com.

2 (39s):
The year's coming to an end. We're looking back taking stock and one thing's clear 20, 21, not as bad as 2020 good things happened. We covered lots of positive developments on the show from alien feeling bipartisanship in the United States to people reclaiming political power in Chile to a vaccine from malaria that could save tens of thousands of lives a year, but there are things we miss too, and some things we wanted to review. So today on the show, it's just wall to wall. Good news from 2021 deal with it.

3 (1m 14s):
Hey John, this is Dylan Dylan Matthews. Write about poverty yet@fox.com.

4 (1m 19s):
Hi, my name is Lee, so I cover Congress and social programs for Vox.

3 (1m 24s):
I think probably the best thing that's happened on my B over the past year, besides, you know, the COVID vaccinations and people being protected has been the huge drop in poverty, especially for kids

4 (1m 42s):
As the name suggests the child tax credit is something that families who have kids are able to receive, which reduces their tax liability and enables them to keep more of that money

5 (1m 53s):
In plain English. It means instead of families who need help the most getting late, getting the least the more hardworking families, heartbreaking families will get this on a month full monthly basis.

4 (2m 7s):
Congress, this year made a couple big changes to the tax credit first. They made it a lot bigger. Secondly, they made it so that people could receive it in monthly installments instead of just as the lump sum and third, they increased the accessibility of the credit for lower income households who previously may not have qualified already. We're seeing the effects of this change in the first month after payments went out, child poverty went down 25%, which means 3 million children were lifted out of poverty and experts estimate that if this policy is able to go on for longer, the impact could be even more significant cutting child poverty.

4 (2m 47s):
By 40%,

3 (2m 49s):
We have official numbers for 2020 actually. And you would expect in a year when unemployment shot up to 14% and there was this giant recession and a massive public health crisis that poverty would go up and human deprivation would go up. And literally the opposite has happened. If you look at a chart of poverty, measured accurately, including government programs, it was the biggest year to year drop in poverty ever. According to the census as supplemental poverty measure, it went down by about 20%. The, the poverty rate, that's just a huge, huge drop year over year, and it's nothing we've ever seen before. So we just done a remarkable job of taking care of Americans and especially children and preventing them from falling into poverty.

3 (3m 36s):
I don't know if that will keep going, but it's, it's one of the big pieces of good news over the past year for me,

6 (3m 48s):
I am Jen Kirby, a foreign and national security reporter with box 29, 21 was a pretty bad year for the world. We're obviously still in the middle of a pandemic with a very unequal global vaccination campaign. We've seen Kuda Taz and places like Sudan and Myanmar. And I could go on with bad news, but if I had to find a positive development, I would suggest the efforts of more than 130 countries to agree to a global minimum tax rate of 15% on certain very large multinational corporations. To

7 (4m 25s):
Day after years of discussion G seven, finance ministers have reached a historic agreement to reform the global tax system to make it fit for the global digital age, but crucially, to make sure that it's fair.

6 (4m 38s):
The goal of this minimum tax rate is to really prevent these major companies from moving operations or finding tax havens, where they can pay a lot less and to help countries, you know, recoup some of those profits.

7 (4m 52s):
And whether it's people operating in tax havens or as digital companies, we're going to level the playing field and inject that principle of fairness into our global tax system. That's the prize

6 (5m 3s):
Critics say that there are going to be loopholes and it may not work out very well because there will be difficulties to implementation worldwide. But I think that in this time when we've seen, you know, countries kind of turn inward in the pandemic and struggled to work together on global efforts on vaccination, for example, the idea that the G 20 countries signed off on and a bunch of other countries agreed to these plans, show that there are still possibilities for diplomacy and multinational multilateral efforts. And of course, again, there's going to be challenges to really making this work in real time, but it is an effort to at least on paper, make the global economy a little bit more just, and the organization for economic cooperation and development has estimated it could raise about $150 billion annually, which, you know, many countries may need as they recover from the pandemic.

6 (6m 5s):
So, you know, the best case scenarios, we'll start to see these changes and being implemented next year in 2022 to go into effect into 2023, that may be overly optimistic, but why not have a little faith for once

8 (6m 21s):
And the governor of Puerto Rico, Pedro people that we see joins us now, governor, thank you so much for being here. You've, you've praised her Island's efforts. You all have a high vaccination rate

9 (6m 32s):
And I'm a reporter for Vox. Puerto Rico has become a real pandemic success story. As of December 5th, the island had fully vaccinated, almost 75% of its population. That's more than any other us state or territory. And Puerto Ricans have been less than half as likely to die of the virus than the us population overall.

10 (6m 49s):
Well, we're acting with a sense of urgency. We have the department of health fully engaged. We have the national guard as well, supporting our health department and , we're doing what we have to do. I mean,

9 (7m 4s):
That might come as a surprise, given the kind of public health challenges that Puerto Rico is facing. The island is still recovering from hurricane Maria, which hit in 20 17, 72 of the islands, 78 municipalities are considered medically underserved and nearly half a Puerto Rican's are on Medicaid. So why is Puerto Rico been so successful? It's a combination of politics and earning community trust, and it could provide a blueprint first responding to future public health crises on the mainland angios and community groups where some of the first responders during hurricane Maria and two major earthquakes that hit the island in late 2019 and the government's absence, they set up emergency centers and provided basic supplies and services establishing the community relationships and infrastructure necessary to mobilize.

9 (7m 48s):
When the pandemic hit, they developed an expertise in responding to public health crises, and Puerto Rican's learned to trust them what their health, when it came time for vaccination, 85% of Puerto Ricans wanted the job and the collective efforts of a local public health department, the national guard, and NGOs made it really easy to get, even for people in medically underserved areas. And while Republicans on the mainland have flirted with anti-vaxxers politicians across the spectrum in Puerto Rico did not tolerate vaccine disinformation and let scientists lead the response.

11 (8m 19s):
So helps at the four major parties that were in power in 2020 and in 2021, all support vaccines. So there isn't the same partisan divide on, you know, don't get the vaccine be wary and do definitely get it. It's, you know, there's more of a middle ground there

9 (8m 35s):
Where Rico's governor has implemented some of the widest vaccine mandates in the country for students, for public sector employees and for many private businesses without the kind of pushback that we're seeing on the mainland. It's a Testament to the Island's efforts to unify around the vaccine as a means of protecting everyone while it may be too late to turn the clock back on the kind of political we've seen in the U S on vaccines, it should be a lesson to the 50 states that building community trust is the first step in responding to a public health crisis. And it's not something that can be established overnight.

10 (9m 7s):
This pandemic is hitting us all in the states on, in Puerto Rico and we're an island. So we have to be very carefully dealing with it. And that's what we're doing

2 (9m 19s):
Even more good news in a minute on today explained Hello, 2022 is going to be a big year with lots of complex problems that people need to understand and potential solutions. We love the solutions at box to help us plan. Our coverage of Vox is aiming to add 6,000 financial contributions from readers by December 31st, by the end of the year, you can give once that helps keep our work free. You can also make a monthly or annual recurring gift, which helps keep our work free and also helps us plan ahead. Please help us get there by making a gift today. Just go to vox.com/give thank you so much.

12 (10m 8s):
Hi, I'm Kenny. Tarella a staff writer for Fox's future perfect section. There's more interest than ever in eating less meat to fight climate change, improve your health and help animals, but how do you get started? And just as important, how do you stick with it? My newsletter meet Les is here to help in five emails. I'll show you how to easily incorporate more plant-based foods into your diet, give you evidence-based strategies to make it last and share lots of food for thought on the impact of our food choices. Sign up for free at fox.com/meat less.

6 (10m 59s):
Hey, I'm Anna north. I'm a senior correspondent at box. This was a year when workers started to take back at least some power from their employers.

13 (11m 9s):
The sign of the times, employees at this Nebraska burger king telling customers we are

6 (11m 14s):
Quit after a frightening and dangerous year. In 2020, when frontline workers faced unprecedented risks and many others were laid off or furloughed a record of nearly 4 million people quit their jobs in April, 2021. And quit rates kept smashing records all year long, job

14 (11m 31s):
And things are at a record high and wages increased again. Last month, as companies tried to attract new employees more than 25 million people quit their jobs in the first seven months of this year. And it is now being called the great resume

6 (11m 47s):
The nation. The so-called great resignation has led to a lot of jobs going on filled the demand for has led to the best market for job seekers in recent memory with employers offering signing bonuses and higher wages to try to coax people back to work.

15 (12m 2s):
I think we kind of live in a time now where companies have to really think about how do I rehire this employee every day and make them excited about their work, because there's, there's really more choice than ever. And it's easier to change roles than ever.

6 (12m 14s):
There's no guarantee that this moment will last and some economists are worried that it's just a temporary response to the pandemic. They fear that without reforms like a higher minimum wage and protections for unions will eventually go back to the battle days when bosses had all the power. But at least for right now, it feels like working people finally have some choices,

17 (12m 40s):
Butterfly in the sky. I can go take other a reading rain.

15 (12m 51s):
My name is Benji Jones, and I'm an environmental reporter at Vox where I spend most of my time writing about biodiversity along those lines. One good thing that happened in 2021 was that Monarch butterflies in the Western us seem to have made a modest recovery.

16 (13m 8s):
It starts out as a very hungry caterpillar, then informs a Chrysalis. And though you might think the caterpillars in there napping, what it's really doing is changing into a butterfly. Now that's pretty spectacular, but it's only the beginning because that butterfly is a model.

15 (13m 29s):
These are of course the iconic black and orange insects. And I'm talking specifically about the ones that live west of the Rocky mountains. They migrate each year to coastal California for the winter where they clump together in trees. And it's a pretty amazing site. Last year, the annual count there turned up only about 1900 butterflies. Whereas this year there are over a hundred thousand already and it could go up from there. This is especially neat because butterflies are this kind of barometer for what's going on elsewhere in the country. They migrate across long distances and are sensitive to things like habitat loss and climate change and so forth, which means basically that lots of monarchs tend to be a good sign for the health of the planet.

15 (14m 10s):
Plus they're just super beautiful and fun to see, but

16 (14m 13s):
You don't have to take my word for it.

15 (14m 17s):
Something else good that happened in 2021 is that a bunch of very powerful people saw the value in biodiversity? What do I mean by that? Well, for one president, Joe Biden has put a lot of attention on protecting nature in his agenda, more than other presidents in the past. For example, in the spring, he launched an initiative called America that beautiful to conserve at least 30% of all land and water by 2030. It's a goal also known as 30 by 30 and dozens of other countries have made similar commitments for reference the start of 2021, about 12% of American land is within national parks, wildlife, refuges, and other formal protected areas. So 30% is a pretty big step up.

5 (14m 56s):
And the truth is national monument and parks are part of the identity as RPNs the people there are more than natural wonders. They're the birthright we pass from generation to generation of birthright of every American preserving them is the fulfillment of a promise to our children.

15 (15m 15s):
Meanwhile, Jeff Bezos also known as the billionaire behind Amazon pledged $2 billion allocated directly to restore nature and transforming food systems. And more than a hundred world leaders agreed to halt or reverse deforestation by the end of the decade, those promises are backed by $19 billion in public and private funds. This is a big deal because in the past, biodiversity has been sort of in the shadow of climate change when it came to ranking priorities. And now it seems like they're sort of side by side. So essentially biodiversity has really entered these high levels of decision-making. This all matters of course, because nature is what sustains us. It provides us with water and food and so on and saving biodiversity comes with benefits for slowing climate change.

15 (15m 59s):
One example is that forests rich in trees store lots of carbon. So yeah, I would call that pretty good news.

1 (16m 6s):
It's Brittany bitch.

4 (16m 11s):
My name is Constance gradient and I cover culture and celebrities for VOCs. So I have been following a lot of news about the free Brittany movement. I was very excited when Brittany actually got fried Brittany's freedom was announced on Friday, November 12th,

18 (16m 44s):
The fans out here, the supporters that the free brand new movement reacted to the news that both conservatorships the personal and the financial have been dissolved or did use the language of the court terminated.

4 (17m 6s):
I was sitting at my computers sort of view refreshing Twitter feeds from people who I knew were in the courtroom because they were not broadcasting anything, any of the court proceedings out to the public. And eventually this lawyer who is a big Brittany fan and has followed the case pretty religiously just tweeted in all caps, Brittany free. And I immediately sent it to my editor with a million exclamation points. And that is when I found out she was out. So one good thing that happened this year is Brittany Spears is freedom.

2 (17m 59s):
Constance grainy, Benji Jones, and a north Nicola NORAD, Jane Kirby, Lizo, Dylan Matthews. You can read all their good work@box.com. Our episode today was produced by Matthew Colette edited by Jillian Weinberger engineered by a theme Shapiro and fact checked by Laura Bullard. And we'll read, this is today explained