0 (1s):
In 2018, Netflix released Nanette, a viral standup special from the comedian Hannah Gadsby. It was an odd show because it wasn't entirely funny. Gadsby was quite angry about some things, including the artist, and sometime misogynist Pablo Picasso.

1 (17s):
Picasso freed us from slavery. People really did. You know, he, he freed us from the slavery of having to reproduce believable three-dimensional reality on a two-dimensional surface. Picasso said, no, run free. You can have all the perspectives from above, from below, inside out. Thank you, Picasso. What a hero. Thank you. But tell me any of those perspectives are womans.

0 (41s):
50 years after the anniversary of Picasso's death. There are celebrations of his work happening all around the world. Gatsby has co-curated an exhibition of his art and the work of others at the Brooklyn Museum. And today, on today explained along with Hannah Gatsby, we will examine the art monster.

3 (1m 6s):
Christie Carlson Romano has made a bunch of content all about the dark side of childhood fame, which makes her unlike a lot of other former child stars. But she's fine with that.

4 (1m 17s):
People are in their trauma. You cannot rush them out of it. When we ask, like, you know, why aren't they coming forward? I can't assume to know why. Unfortunately, yeah, I can only sweep my side of the street.

3 (1m 31s):
Christy Carlson Romano on life after Disney this week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast

0 (1m 43s):
You're listening to today

2 (1m 45s):
Explained,

0 (1m 49s):
It's today explained Omni Will King with comedian Hannah Gatsby. So Hannah, you studied art history, including Picasso, and then you made a bold decision to talk about him in a comedy special.

5 (2m 2s):
It is a bold decision. Thank you. Because it, it's very difficult to talk a about visual medium, just just through chat. So that was, you know, an exciting idea just on, in and of itself. But the show, it's was about cultural misogyny and the effects that it had. So it felt like it was bringing these two, I, you know, parts of myself into the conversation. I studied art history and so I, I, I knew about this conversation and I just got to a point where I was sick of it. I was sick of just like, well, this is what artists have to be. They either have to be terrible monsters or suffering, and I just reject that idea.

5 (2m 43s):
I re I just think life will deliver suffering. You don't have to manufacture it, you don't have to nurture it, you don't have to lay it, you know, prepare the soil. It just will come. So I, I was just in this really frustrated place where, you know, I felt really restricted about what I was allowed to do. He's like, you've gotta be funny, you've gotta be funny. You've gotta be a slave to the punchline. But yet, like successful men were allowed to be monsters, yet I wasn't allowed to be a little bit self serious on stage. So Nanette was just like, well, come on. Then.

0 (3m 19s):
When you kind of went after him in the special in Nanette, did you sense the conversation around Picasso was shifting? Or had the conversation already shifted and you were saying what all the art people already know?

5 (3m 28s):
No, I don't think, look, the Picasso of Nanette sort of got lost in the tidal wave of all the other reactions,

6 (3m 41s):
Like that standup special that person did, where it was joke, joke jokes, and then like, now here's all the pain behind it. Ah, don't, I don't wanna know the truth behind this. I signed up for,

7 (3m 56s):
She talks about her various rapes that she's had over the years and, and you're like, hilarious. Like it's just not comedy.

8 (4m 10s):
You must admit Hannah Gatsby is not funny.

5 (4m 21s):
So I'm just sort of coming to terms with the Picasso aspect of, of Nanette. I've, I've been sort of dealing with the backlash of the comedy community first. So it is well known. What isn't challenge though is that it's a bad thing. I just think they're just like, well, he was a monster. It was a different time. We still love him. And was it that bad? And that's the conversation all the time. As I say, you gotta separate the artist from the art. And I'm like, you can't separate an artist from their art in this world cuz we're artists first. We are obsessed with artists as Gods and their idols and we're seeing that play out now. So I think Picasso is incredibly relevant because we don't know how to talk about monsters.

5 (5m 6s):
We don't know how to deal with them. We don't know how to have an adult conversation around abusive geniuses, so to speak. Johnny Depp just got a seven minute standing ovation in Cannes. Like, this is, this is a conversation we seem incapable of having and incapable of seeing women as humans and as people with potential and as people with, you know, a relevant humanity. It's, it's almost boring. It's so frustrating.

0 (5m 42s):
Do you think if an artist is told from a young age, it doesn't matter how talented you are, sir, you have to be nice and you have to be normal. Does he act nice and normal?

5 (5m 52s):
Look normal's not, I'm not gonna ask normal of anybody. Mm. But this is bigger than individuals. This is about the, the cultures that situate themselves around success. And it's also a story about fame. Fame impacts an artist. You know, I've experienced a little bit of success recently. I dunno if you noticed, but it's certainly changed my life. I, I hear the word no a lot less now because people have a vested interest in, in me and that I think it cannot not change a person.

5 (6m 34s):
The conversation around Picasso seems very sort of, you know, almost, it gives up, you know, it's like, well you can't do anything about it now. It is what it is. It was a different time. And Jeezy's done a lot of paintings. They're great and they're worth a lot and as a historical figure you can't change that. But as an historical figure, that is interesting to where and who we are now and we're still stuck in this, that really toxic place. And I think it's the world that we build around artists and the machines of success and profit that we build around artists. That is where the work has to be done.

5 (7m 14s):
Artists just want to create people who have creative urges, just want to create. And you can do that without operating from a cruelty first perspective.

0 (7m 29s):
Let's talk about the art and the exhibit and the first question to you, I swear to God I'm serious. Is Picasso good? Is he a good artist?

5 (7m 37s):
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Absolutely. You can't, it, it's very difficult to deny that. I don't think people like him. Like, I think his work is difficult. I think the, I think the art world is very happy with their decision to put him on the pedestal. They have good reason to celebrate his technical prowess and he certainly has a long and interesting, Hmm. But I think he represents a time in modern art that sort of is when people stop, it stopped being accessible to a broader public. He's not, Picasso's work is not having a conversation with a broader public. So it's very difficult for people to look at a Picasso and know why it's good, but that doesn't make him irrelevant, you know?

5 (8m 21s):
I don't think art should have to be beautiful anymore than I think comedy has to be funny. But I think it is an interesting thing that, you know, so many people know who Picasso is, assume he's important except that he's important, but look at his work and go weird. I find it uncomfortable. I don't like it. It's just a lot of people who exist on this earth who would not give a shit if they did not see another Picasso.

0 (8m 46s):
And, and here you are co-curating an exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum that will include some of his work. Tell me about the exhibition, if you

5 (8m 53s):
Would. It was put together as a, you know, part of a global celebration of the 50th anniversary of his death. And so understanding that the world was going to be full of Picasso chats. When I was approached by the Brooklyn Museum, I thought, do you know what I think that chat could do with an antagonistic voice and an outsider? I'm an outsider to the art world, so I, I don't have any problems with being rejected by them. The art world can't banish me because I don't live there and I just want people to laugh at Picasso. It's all part of my grand plan of emasculation and, you know, plummeting his stocks.

5 (9m 40s):
I think when someone's on a pedestal, it's important to laugh at them. I just think we should be able to have those conversations without being so frightened that reputations are gonna be destroyed. Like it's just how it is and interrogating history and the previous versions of ourselves is a really great way to understand where we are now. But I've also included a lot of feminist pieces. The exhibition is probably half and half Picasso and, and feminist pieces. There's a few nice bits from Picasso, so you will be able to walk in and go, oh yeah, that's a good Picasso. But I've also included Picassos that are a little underwhelming.

5 (10m 22s):
And I think that's important. I think it's really important when you're talking about Picasso to recognize and show that not all of his work is equal. Not all of his work is good. He was prolific, but people place importance on it because it's profit. And I wanted to put that on the wall. And a lot of the feminist pieces that I chose are enormous and they're really, again, part of the project of emasculation of Picasso. He's got tiny little unimpressive prints next to these huge feminist statements by some black American feminists. So we've got Din McCannon, Micheline Thomas and Renee Cox.

5 (11m 2s):
And then we've got some older feminist artists as well who are, you know, not necessarily with us anymore. The Louise Bourgeois, who I would argue is the greatest artist of the 20th century. Marilyn Minter May Steven. So it's, it's like really great voices. Picasso died in the seventies and he's called the greatest artist of the 20th century. He wasn't there for the last 30 years. So just by claiming that, just by pinpointing an entire century on one individual, I just feel like that's really disrespectful to everyone who came after this in the seventies. Art movements. I think it's disrespectful to people who were contemporary to Picasso.

5 (11m 42s):
He didn't create in a vacuum. He was part of a zeitgeist. And I think if you're going to understand who Picasso is, you have to put in within the zeitgeist that, that he was participating in. And so I wanted to, you know, acknowledge the context of Time and Place, which is Brooklyn. And now with w with works that speak to that. These artists are all also really funny. I feel like feminist art has been sealed off into this vacuum of humorlessness and they're really funny. There's really funny pieces in here and really, you know, talking about serious things in really interesting engaging ways.

5 (12m 22s):
But you know, these artists, you know, feminist artists from the seventies, you know, really pushed form, you know, like medium, what mediums can you use? They brought in, you know, protest performance art. They incorporated video medium. I want the exhibition to sort of like remind people that the 20th century is a rich tapestry of voices.

0 (12m 45s):
It is so interesting to hear you say that because as I was, as I was, you know, I was doing research for this interview. I'm looking at the exhibition and I was thinking about last fall, I was in London and I saw this Cornelia Parker exhibit. Cornelia Parker is an artist who physically blows things up. Like with explosives, she rolls over things with tanks. It is so dope. It is so funny. It struck me, you know, someone who knows nothing as very good art. And I thought, why doesn't Anna Gadsby lend a name to someone like Cornelia Parker? And, and like leave Picasso out of it. But maybe it doesn't work that way. I don't know.

5 (13m 22s):
Well, nobody's asked me to do that. I'm not a curator. I'm not from this world, so I'm not like, here's what I want to do. This is slim pickings. This is the scrap table. I picked it up. But, you know, context is really interesting. You know, having people experience Picasso in a different context, which in this case is, you know, the, the feminist lens I think is interesting. You know, I can't destroy Picasso, nor would I want to, I can't, you know, stop people from investing in him and making a lot of money out of him, et cetera, et cetera. So I don't, I'm not wasting my time on that. He is part of the conversation. He's very present now.

5 (14m 3s):
So you've gotta work in the context that you have. And so this is how I've chosen to do it. Do you

0 (14m 7s):
Suspect he will always be relevant? Is he one of those game changing artists that, you know, a thousand years later we're talking about Michelangelo is, is he that kind of kind of guy?

5 (14m 17s):
Well I would argue that he's not relevant. Ooh, his art's not relevant now, huh? He's a historical object. It's dead up. It was very relevant at the time of producing it. That's what makes it an a really important cultural object. You know, it's a very important part of history. It's, you know, it was a real pivot point of art history. So yes, he law will always be relevant in that context, but he's the art itself. The objects themselves, I would argue don't have a lot of relevance to people who are alive today. Cuz we've moved on.

5 (14m 58s):
We've moved on. But I would argue that the interesting thing about Picasso is the conversation around his monstrosity. That's the only interesting thing about him right now is that conversation. Because we don't know how to have that conversation. We don't know what to do about that. I get the feeling we want, we wanna do better, but we just can't let go of this idea that in order to be good at art, you have to be a terrible person

0 (15m 29s):
Coming up. Maybe you're not wild about Picasso, but what about Michael Jackson or Roman Polanski or Woody Allen? A conversation about the fans dilemma.

2 (15m 51s):
Fox Creative,

9 (15m 52s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by too. Good.

2 (15m 56s):
Why

10 (15m 56s):
Do we throw away so much perfectly good food in this country while a huge number of people are going hungry? Like the two things just don't add up. My name is Sean Volks and I'm the senior brand manager of two goods. We offer a variety of delicious products that you can find in the yogurt Tile Two Good was founded back in 2019 and our mission from the start was really to create good, both small good food and more good in the world. Combating food waste and food insecurity came as a natural course of action. 30 to 40% of the food supply in the US goes to waste. And one in six Americans are facing food insecurity. So we don't have an issue of lack of food supply, it's an issue of food distribution.

10 (16m 38s):
If we rescue without food, we can feed more people one cup less hung up. The way it works is that for every two good products sold, we donate to two incredible food rescue organizations. City Harvest and we don't waste who are dedicated to rescuing good food from businesses, from supermarkets, anywhere it might go to waste. And then redirecting that to communities in need who are facing food insecurity. Consumers that have purchased two good products have helped rescue over 58 million pounds of food and donate over 48 million meals to those who need it the most. It's really remarkable the amount of Food City Harvest and we don't waste are able to rescue

9 (17m 14s):
To learn more. Visit two good yogurt.com/one cup Less hunger.

11 (17m 23s):
I had been thinking about this problem as somebody who had written previously about the filmmaker Roman Polanski and learned a lot about his crime. And yet still, I loved his work. And to me that seemed a really interesting problem and dilemma. It's today

0 (17m 38s):
Explained. We're back with Claire Dieter. She's a writer and a critic and she has a new book out called Monsters, A Fans Dilemma. Claire had been writing about art monsters for a couple years when Me Too Happened and she started realizing that many people were struggling with the same questions. She was, can you separate a bad person from great

11 (17m 58s):
Art? One thing that really changed for me was kind of questioning this idea that the greatness of the work could be ascertained by any one person, or that there was an authority that could tell us what work is great enough to withstand kind of our knowledge of these bad behaviors. And instead, I started to see the problem as a conflict between each individual person's love of the work and each individual person's biography that makes them more or less able to tolerate or engage with someone who's done such a crime. So I came to see it more and more as a subjective experience rather than something that could be sort of universally decided by some authority.

0 (18m 40s):
Do you still like Roman Polanski's movies? Yes,

11 (18m 43s):
Undoubtedly. Yeah. I was a film critic for many years and I was a film student in college and you know, I could, I could stand in the place of authority and say, I think they're very important works and I feel confident that I'd be right. But more than that, and more interestingly to me as a writer and critic and thinker on the subject is the fact that I just love the films that they're important to me. And I think when we talk about this, we talk a lot about the emotional experience and the kind of ethical experience of responding to the rotten thing the person did. But I think it's also important to remember that we love art and that it's meaningful to us. And so I'm trying to talk about that side of it as well.

0 (19m 23s):
Tell me about the so-called monsters that you wrote about who's in your book?

11 (19m 34s):
I did write about Picasso quite a bit, and I wrote about Hemingway, I wrote about Plansky, I wrote about Woody Allen. I wrote about the minimalist artist Carl Andre and I also went on to write about various women, but the women I wrote about, I was thinking about them in a more expansive idea of maybe a more expansive idea of what can be contained by the word monsters. As I was writing, I started to think that I didn't just mean people who'd done something awful, but I started to think about people who had done something that disrupts our experience of their art, which is a much more elastic term.

11 (20m 16s):
That idea of monster being able to call someone a monster got set aside and instead it was more this idea that we couldn't escape our knowledge of someone's biography and we couldn't ex escape the way it affects our experience of their art. And because of that, I kind of turn away from the image of the monster and toward an idea of the stain, the idea that the work is stained by our knowledge of what the maker has done. And that became a more interesting place for me to explore.

0 (20m 58s):
There seem to be two schools of thought on how to deal with these people and with their art. Right now, as you know, there's this, this ferocious debate about JK Rowling. I myself know people who say, I'm not gonna engage with her work ever again. I'm done with Harry Potter, I've taken the books outta my house. But then there are people who say, no, you have to separate the art from the artist. I myself will listen to Michael Jackson music even though the evidence suggests that Michael Jackson did some very, very bad things. Where do you come down in all of this? You still like Roman Polanski noted. What else do you still engage with where you think the artist is not somebody I like or even maybe respect, but I do like the

11 (21m 38s):
Art. I'm happy that you asked that question in the way you asked it, that you asked it in a personal way. What I'm really trying to do is say that this is a question that we each bring our biography to. You know, I bring my biography, things I've survived, things I've been through to my experience and thoughts about the person's misdeeds or reported misdeeds. I also bring my biography to the, you know, the love I have of the work. And so each individual person kind of can reside in their subjectivity and their response to this. And the book, in fact is not seeking to solve the problem for people, but rather to describe the experience of what happens when we consume that work with that knowledge in our minds.

11 (22m 19s):
So, you know, it's, it's really interesting. You know, the Michael Jackson situation, I think is, is one of the more interesting questions because he's so woven into all our histories. So do I put on a Michael Jackson record anymore? No, I really don't. But when it c you know, it still comes across the air to us all the time, right? I constantly hear Michael Jackson when I'm out and about and, and do I still love it and I'm still moved by it. Yes. I mean, I can't switch that off.

0 (22m 46s):
How should we, and you don't seem like a particularly prescriptive person, but I wonder if you've thought about how we should feel when we engage with artwork, knowing what we know about the artist, should we feel guilty?

11 (22m 60s):
I love that you used the word prescriptive, because that's exactly what I am not, Because what I'm really trying to do is describe feelings and to say that we are having these feelings and they're real. And you know, just telling them to go away doesn't accomplish anything. So you ask if we should feel guilty and, and I'm not sure that's how feelings work. I don't think we feel what we should feel if we did. The world would be a lot simpler place and a lot better place probably. But I think that if you love the work, that's important. I think if you feel guilty or sad about what the accusations are saying, that that can be part of the experience too.

2 (23m 48s):
Should

0 (23m 49s):
We have like a universal set of standards around this?

11 (23m 52s):
I think that the, the desire for a universal set of standards is a very deep yearning. I think that everybody would ask this question, and I think that from our conversation, you can probably guess my answer is no. Because the problem immediately, immediately arises who's going to set the standards. You know, the work that's important to you might not be the work that's important to me. That might not be the work that's important to someone else. So if we start to have this kind of authoritative idea that, well, if the work's good enough, we're still gonna consume it. Who gets to decide what that work is? What population, you know, different work is important to different people.

11 (24m 32s):
So I, I just think that the idea of a universal set of standards is ultimately gonna end up being coercive. And once again, we have to reside in this really uncomfortable place of subjectivity and just acknowledging that we have these, you know, terrible feelings about these people, but we also have this sort of undeniable love.

2 (24m 57s):
Claire

0 (24m 58s):
Deidre is the author of Monsters, A Fans Dilemma. Hannah Gatsby show at the Brooklyn Museum opens today. And guess what the critics think. It's interesting. Today's episode was produced by Hottie Modi and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Michael Rayfield. I'm Noelle King, it's today explained.