0 (0s):
Hello listeners have today explained in moments like these, when people are struggling to understand variants and vaccines and sending their kids back to school, a lot of news outlets are taking their paywalls down, but I would just like to point out the Vox has never really had a paywall in part because of financial support from our readers and listeners, people like you. Our goal is to add 2,500 individual contributions by the end of September, please help us get there and keep Vox free by making a financial contribution today, go to vox.com/give. There's also a link in the show notes of this episode. Thank you.

2 (40s):
If there are friends and family members you haven't talked to in awhile, don't worry. It's never too late to reconnect to help at. And T is offering deals on the latest smartphones. It's not complicated. Everyone deserves something new. So at and T is giving new and existing customers their best deals on every smartphone. Even the latest ones, restrictions and exemptions apply. Visit att.com for details.

0 (1m 15s):
Back in November of 2018, we published an episode titled those weird Cuban attacks. It was about what's now commonly referred to as Havana syndrome, though, it would appear the Biden administration is trying to get away from that name. They're apparently calling them unexplained health incidents or UHS now because there's still a lot of mystery surrounding what exactly is going on here. And whatever is happening is no longer limited to Havana. Just this week, the Pentagon asked all of its military personnel, civilian officials, and contractors to report any health issues, similar to what diplomats and CIA officers first experienced in Havana years later, they're still trying to figure out what exactly is going on as is Vox is unexplainable podcast.

0 (2m 5s):
Today. We're bringing you a recent episode of there's tackling Advanta syndrome, UHS, or those weird attacks and diplomats, and also other people, whatever you want to call it, you can find unexplainable wherever you find today explained here is that episode

3 (2m 33s):
It's unexplainable. I'm no I'm Hassenfeld. Remember a few years ago when those invisible attacks were messing with us diplomats in Cuba,

4 (2m 41s):
The Trump administration announced that it is pulling more than half of its staff out of the American embassy in Havana. This comes after diplomats and staff suffered mysterious health attacks that caused minor brain injuries.

3 (2m 55s):
The symptoms have been called Havana syndrome and new incidents are still reported, except they're not just happening in Cuba anymore. Incidents have been reported in Russia, China, the U S and just in the last few months, there were reports of incidents in Austria, Germany and Vietnam, about 200 incidents of Havana syndrome have now been reported around the world. We've many requiring hospitalization or outpatient treatment, but what's causing Havana syndrome is still a mystery on this week's episode. A potential reason why we may have been looking for the wrong kind of answers. We'll start from the beginning.

5 (3m 33s):
So in late 2016, two intelligence operatives who recently arrived at the United States embassy in Cuba, they hear what they considered to be a bizarre noise.

3 (3m 49s):
This sound is a recording obtained by the AP of what some diplomats claimed. They heard.

5 (3m 55s):
It's a very bizarre other worldly noise

3 (3m 59s):
Journalists. Dan Hurley wrote about the science behind Havana syndrome for the New York times magazine.

5 (4m 4s):
And they begin to develop headaches, fatigue, dizziness, hearing loss, nausea

3 (4m 14s):
Word, reaches the head, us diplomat in Cuba, who eventually calls a meeting and be senior staff.

5 (4m 19s):
And he tells them there's these weird noises makes people feel sick. We're trying to figure out what's going on. And if any of you feel it, please let us know, but don't tell anybody this is confidential,

3 (4m 34s):
But more and more people start reporting these strange symptoms. So the head diplomat starts telling other countries ambassadors who are also in Cuba. And

5 (4m 43s):
Once he tells the Canadian ambassador, 12 of the people who are in the Canadian embassy say I'm feeling the same thing,

3 (4m 54s):
Cases continue to rise. And the state department's medical director sends patients to get examined at the university of Pennsylvania.

6 (5m 1s):
So I'm a Douglas Smith. I'm a professor of neurosurgery and director of the center for brain injury and repair at the university of Pennsylvania

3 (5m 9s):
Douglas. First examined the patients in 2017.

6 (5m 12s):
I have to tell you that patients have a kind of a great sense of humor despite the suffering they had and some call this immaculate concussion, because it sure seemed like concussion symptoms, but without the actual head impact,

7 (5m 26s):
It was in intense pressure.

6 (5m 28s):
That's in my temples. I mean, the room is spinning. I can't stand up. I'm falling over. I feel physically sick. Your head is splitting. The majority of them heard sounds, but not all the sounds were the same. Some were high pitched kind of a trilling type of sound, very high pitched sound in Catherine's bedroom, Cicada,

3 (5m 50s):
Actually scientists who later analyzed the AP recording concluded that at least that particular sound was likely generated by Caribbean crickets, but

6 (5m 60s):
Not everybody had. Those sounds

3 (6m 1s):
Some didn't hear anything and some heard entirely different sounds.

6 (6m 5s):
So they weren't all consistent some reported styles that were kind of low grinding metal type sounds

7 (6m 11s):
The same time I heard this low humming sound and it was awesome.

6 (6m 16s):
And others even reported sounds like, you know, this baffling noise, we had the back window of a car off and on the highway that kind of really made kind of sound. And they could actually sense what direction this phenomenon was coming from.

8 (6m 31s):
I felt like hit me from the left side and it paralyzed me. So I was not able to move, or

6 (6m 39s):
Some of them would even duck behind a concrete wall and the feeling would go away. They come back again, like to have a window, for example, and the symptoms would return.

7 (6m 49s):
And I remember looking around for where the sound was coming from because it was painted.

6 (6m 54s):
It made them feel kind of like they're dizzy or ringing in their ears or visual problems. I'm able to function for two or three hours a day in concentrating, but that's about it. You're in a fog

8 (7m 7s):
It's as if everything is moving

6 (7m 8s):
In slow motion, but nobody in our group had ever heard of sound hurting the brain

3 (7m 16s):
In 2018 Douglas and his team at Penn published a study, which found that these government officials did appear to have sustained brain injuries, but they didn't know what could have caused them. The team left that open claiming the symptoms were due to a quote, unknown energy source associated with auditory and sensory phenomena. Meanwhile, the U S government seems split on how to refer to the episodes while some called them incidents. Others like former secretary of state Rex Tillerson started calling them attacks.

9 (7m 44s):
We hold the Cuban authorities responsible for finding out who is carrying out these health attacks on not just our diplomats, but as you see now, there are other cases with other diplomats.

3 (7m 55s):
The U S ended up withdrawing. Most of its staff from the Cuban embassy, but more and more incidents kept being reported this time outside of Cuba. First, it was in Moscow, in invisible attack, in a Moscow hotel. Then it was in China. Abnormal sounds

7 (8m 12s):
Left a console at worker with a mild brain

3 (8m 14s):
Injury. It was in Australia, two senior CIA agents may have been attacked in Washington, DC on the national mall. I want to turn now to a mystery right here in the nation's capital. The reports kept on coming. It's been reported in Poland, London, and Taiwan. And even this past summer, there were incidents in Vienna. So this

10 (8m 34s):
The big issue for the Austrian authorities and clearly for the United States.

5 (8m 39s):
Next thing you know, it's NBC the New York times

3 (8m 44s):
60 minutes, science journalist, Dan Hurley. Again,

5 (8m 48s):
Paul saying Americans are being attacked and Scott Pelley tonight

3 (8m 53s):
On

5 (8m 53s):
60 minutes in his classic signature rumbled, I'm Scott Pelley, I'm Scott Pelley. There appears to be

11 (9m 3s):
Hostile foreign governments plan to target Americans serving abroad and their families.

3 (9m 10s):
At first, the U S blame Cuba.

5 (9m 12s):
The Cubans were saying, we don't even know what you're talking about. This is not us.

3 (9m 17s):
And then the U S blamed the Russians. They blamed the Chinese, but incidents have continued to be reported. As of now, it's up to around 200 people,

5 (9m 25s):
But you know, the truth is there's no evidence of any foreign government being involved.

3 (9m 35s):
Is there any type of Sonic weapon that could do this? Like could cicadas be, be weaponized? No,

5 (9m 41s):
And it's not. No, no, no. So there is this strange effect that's called the fray effect. Okay. Back in the sixties, a scientist named Alan fray found that microwaves aimed at the head could cause a clicking sound. You had to be in a very quiet room to even notice it, but the fray effect cannot cause brain damage. It's just something people grabbed on. One of the engineers I spoke to who did a study of the fray effect, Kenneth Foster professor of bioengineering.

5 (10m 23s):
He said kind of

12 (10m 25s):
The fact that it's been talked about with the embassy is purely,

5 (10m 30s):
He said, you might as well be talking about little green men from Mars, throwing darts of energy.

12 (10m 38s):
Concealable microwave weapon, as it's being thought about in this case, no one has measured microwaves in the embassy. As far as I know, it's just purely speculation that there's anything at all involving microwaves in this case.

3 (10m 51s):
And if you take that low level of energy, that gets you the fray effect and just turn it up a lot. Could that be a possible cause here, like shoot a lot of microwaves. So

5 (10m 60s):
There's something else called an active denial system, which the U S government, the military has used to disperse a crowd it's called millimeter waves instead of micro waves. It's 95 gigahertz instead of two and a half gigahertz.

3 (11m 20s):
Okay. So like higher frequency than microwaves. Yeah. And it only

5 (11m 23s):
Goes skin deep. So it makes you feel like you've got a burning sensation on your skin and it's never been known to produce any sounds or to cause chronic brain damage.

3 (11m 37s):
What if you did this with actual microwaves and not millimeter waves,

5 (11m 41s):
That would be exactly like climbing inside a microwave oven. And it wouldn't be something that they hear a noise and go, gee, what's that? No, it would be like getting microwave. It, it heats up your body and it would be a painful experience

3 (12m 2s):
Outside of microwaves or millimeter waves. Are there any other possible causes here

5 (12m 6s):
Ultrasound?

3 (12m 7s):
And that I guess is, is very high pitched frequencies. Yes.

5 (12m 12s):
Now, apparently if you took an ultrasound generator and you put it in a bucket of water, you could make little bubbles appear. And I talked to Timothy Layton, who's a professor of ultrasonics and he told me, you know, if you send it through the air, you will never get that effect. You know, with the pregnant woman, the reason they use the slippery gel is you can't have an air gap.

3 (12m 44s):
So essentially the idea here is that you couldn't get this effect from far away, right. Someone would have to sneak up behind them and touch them with an ultrasound machine or something.

5 (12m 51s):
Yeah. You know what Layton said was we have no evidence and no theories of how it could do that. And he said the idea of some kind of secret ultrasonic death, Ray, going through the air to hit you, it's nonsensical. And that's a quote. And one of the key things is even if you got a concussion, it is unusual for people to develop chronic long-term sickness from that. And yet most of the people with this syndrome do seem to have chronic symptoms. I mean, it just doesn't fit with, what's known about mild traumatic brain injuries.

5 (13m 35s):
None of it makes sense by any physical means

3 (13m 44s):
To this day, neither of the Penn doctors who examined the patients nor other experts have been able to point to a definitive cause for Havana syndrome. While some scientists have claimed that certain high frequency radio waves could be a conceivable possibility, the science is far from resolved, but Dan is one of many people who think there could be another option here.

5 (14m 4s):
There is a simple explanation that is entirely consistent with what neurologists know, and nobody wants to believe it

3 (14m 18s):
That's after the break.

2 (14m 28s):
If there are friends and family members you haven't talked to in awhile, don't worry. It's never too late to reconnect to help at. And T is offering deals on the latest smartphones. It's not complicated. Everyone deserves something new. So at and T is giving new and existing customers their best deals on every smartphone. Even the latest ones, restrictions and exemptions apply. Visit att.com for details,

0 (14m 55s):
Support for the show that comes from nerd smart money podcast. Maybe you're looking for some financial advice, but you don't want to pay for it. Well, NerdWallet's smart. Money podcast is free and it's teaming with financial advice every week on smart money hosts, Sean piles and Liz Weston recap. The financial news that actually affects your life. Then they invite a guest from NerdWallet's massive network of financial experts to answer real listeners, money questions. Maybe they have the same questions you do. They cover topics like how to approach buying a house as unmarried partners or making sure you're maxing out your Roth IRA, where to go for travel insurance and much more it's practical stuff.

0 (15m 42s):
You can subscribe today. Wherever you listen to your favorite shows the show again is NerdWallet smart money podcast.

13 (15m 54s):
This is the strange story of Fred strong, a normal happy man who usually enjoys life, but suddenly without warning, Fred is on his way to all the terror, all the worry, all the pain of an ailment, commonly known as

3 (16m 10s):
Unexplainable from the Vox media podcast network, unexplainable we're back. We've been hearing about Havana syndrome. This mysterious condition that's affected about 200 diplomats around the world. Patients are still suffering and scientists haven't been able to come to a consensus on what kind of energy source could cause this syndrome, but there's another possible theory. Havana syndrome could be an example of something called a functional disorder. These kinds of disorders are just beginning to be understood because they don't usually involve observable structural damage in the brain. A functional disorder is less about how the brain looks than about how it works, how it's communicating

14 (16m 50s):
Structural brain injury would be having a stroke or a brain tumor or, you know, difference. And the brand Mattamy essentially, but a functional difference or change is really just how the different parts of our brain interact with each other.

3 (17m 6s):
Katherine Lefevre is a neurologist specializing in functional disorders.

14 (17m 10s):
We don't understand all the underlying pathophysiology, but we understand that reasonable.

3 (17m 17s):
So here's an example of how one kind of functional disorder could play out. Someone might have an episode of vertigo which could have been caused by a virus or a bit of loose calcium in the ear.

14 (17m 30s):
It can happen is this initial event provoked so much anxiety and sort of expected or fear in people that there's this chronic dizziness, but develop

3 (17m 42s):
Essentially the hypothesis here is that the brain gets overstimulated and locks in a new unhelpful pathway, which lead to continued physical symptoms long after the initial cause is gone to kind of conceptualize this. You can think of the brain as a city center. There's neural pathways snaking through it like streets. And once in a while there's an accident or there's a construction project that creates some detours, but with a functional disorder, it's almost like a worker forgets to take down these detour signs once the construction is done. So even though the city's repaired, the cars keep driving along the detours, since there's no easy way to just take those signs down in the brain, the only way to treat functional disorders is often slowly patiently retraining the brain to take the correct pathway.

3 (18m 29s):
And until the brain can get its traffic corrected people with functional disorders can experience problems with movement weakness in the limbs, or a whole host of other symptoms. That sound a lot like Havana syndrome,

14 (18m 42s):
Brain fog, dizziness, speech, problem, vision problems. And really it can sometimes be quite a big list of symptoms that people are dealing with.

3 (18m 53s):
This is why some neurologists were surprised when the study from the university of Pennsylvania attributed Havana syndrome to a quote, unknown energy source without including a functional disorder as a possible cause

15 (19m 6s):
I think it should just be on the table and it should be on the table without assumptions that people seem to be making about it.

3 (19m 13s):
John Stone is a neurology professor at the university of Edinburgh in Scotland, and runs a clinic for functional disorders.

15 (19m 19s):
If you came to my clinic in Edinburgh and sat in the room, you would watch me interview lots of people. Who've been nowhere near an embassy who have persistent dizziness and cognitive problems, fatigue, which means they have to leave their job.

3 (19m 33s):
After reading the Penn study, he wrote a letter to the editor of the medical journal, claiming functional disorders should be in the conversation

15 (19m 40s):
To me. When I read about these patients, I'm reading about patients who are just people. I would see every time I do a clinic, these are not unusual illnesses,

3 (19m 51s):
But it's not like you can easily do a brain scan and just point to the functional disorder. It's sometimes possible with something called a functional MRI, but they're most often diagnosed based on symptoms. And it's very much a topic of active research. It's really

15 (20m 5s):
Very poorly taught if taught at all at medical school, but in the last 10 or 20 years, a sort of flowering of research in this area has helped to understand these disorders as ones that are at the interface between neurology and psychiatry, where it is reasonable to talk about them as clinical brain disorders.

3 (20m 25s):
So here's how a functional disorder might have been involved with Havana syndrome. Functional disorders are pretty common to start with. John actually did a study, which found that they're one of the most common diagnoses given by neurologists. Then diplomats might be especially susceptible because of the added stress that comes with life as a foreign official. And then on top of that, they're hearing stories or reading reports about other officials being attacked by invisible.

15 (20m 48s):
I think it is possible. A lot of anxiety may be caused about the possibility of having a brain injury from a Sonic attack. And that that concern is heightening people's vigilance for events that might be consistent with a Sonic attack and then symptoms that might be consistent with a Sonic attack.

3 (21m 5s):
Basically, John is saying that there may have been no energy source at all. Some have gone even further, according to reporting from the new Yorker, the FBI initially concluded that this was all a mass psychogenic illness in a mass psychogenic illness, which is also sometimes called mass hysteria, the anxiety or the physical symptoms themselves are contagious. And they aren't already present in the general population. And there have been examples of this throughout history. Things like sudden contagious outbreaks of laughter or fainting at schools. But John says that while mass like a genetic illness could be understood as a type of functional disorder. He doesn't think there's enough evidence for Havana syndrome to qualify as a mass psychogenic illness.

3 (21m 47s):
Plus this term carries some troubling connotations.

15 (21m 50s):
I personally don't use the word psychogenic because it suggests that the problem is all psychological. When patients hear the word psychogenic, they think that's a doctor accusing me of imagining my symptoms or making them up.

3 (22m 5s):
But Douglas Smith, the Penn neurologist to examine the Havana syndrome patients. He says that regardless of the explanation, the suggestion that there may have been no attack, it's been difficult for patients.

6 (22m 16s):
There became a debate out there from outside experts, quote unquote, who really upset the patients by just being absolutely certain that this was the kind of a mass like a illness or some other psychological issue. And they call us a lot of stress to these patients who felt they had a crazy story. So who's going to believe in the begin with

3 (22m 36s):
Douglas, his team actually included tests specifically designed to show that Havana syndrome, wasn't just psychological,

6 (22m 43s):
The equivalent of that knee jerk test, you know, eye tracking and eye movements and how your eyes converge as you move an object closer to the middle of your nose. Somebody can't fake these, even if it's psychological, you can't create these types of neurological symptoms just out of thin air.

3 (23m 0s):
And the team later supported these tests with functional MRI results.

6 (23m 4s):
We selected a MRI sequence that takes a look at the connectivity of the brain and the areas that had loss of conductivity could account for the neurological symptoms that the patients displayed.

3 (23m 18s):
But John says this still doesn't rule out a functional disorder.

15 (23m 21s):
I agree with him, but one can see changes in the brain and one can start to see changes on testing, but that's the case with functional disorders as well.

3 (23m 31s):
We may just need to rethink this seemingly hard division between what's neurological and what's psychological,

15 (23m 38s):
Neurological and psychological refer to the same organ. And this is why it's so hard. I think to report these things or help people get their head around because everything is telling us that there are these two categories. When I think neuroscience is telling us that there aren't, these are disorders that actually forcing us to have a whole new way of thinking about what is the brain? What is the mind

3 (24m 0s):
Think of Phantom leg syndrome? For example, a soldier

15 (24m 3s):
Has their leg amputated, but the brain still believes it to be there. And they experienced very distressing Phantoms of Olin being there it's painful. Is that a psychological problem? You wouldn't necessarily say so you would say, well, that's the kind of brain problem.

3 (24m 18s):
And in a sense, a functional disorder is kind of like reverse Phantom limb syndrome. The brain is functioning like something's wrong, even when nothing is structurally wrong, but when it comes to applying this idea to Havana syndrome, it's just a hypothesis. It's very different from actually examining patients.

6 (24m 35s):
The only people who are saying that this is primarily a psychological issue are people who have never examined the patients

3 (24m 42s):
University of Pennsylvania, neurologist, Douglas Smith. Again,

6 (24m 44s):
Individuals who examine the patients believe that this is a neurological issue. People from the outside feel very confident in their diagnosis of patients. They had never seen.

15 (24m 57s):
I have never met any of these patients with Havana syndrome. I do not know what they have. My only interest in this is that I see functional disorders being thoroughly misrepresented. I completely understand that what he's seeing in front of him are patients with genuine conditions, but that is not reason to dismiss the possibility of functional disorders playing at least a part in what's happening, a functional disorders, a genuine disorder, just as much as a brain injury. I see this all the time in my clinical practice. So I see people who have had minor head injuries. They've had concussion symptoms for a while, and then they gradually get worse because they develop a functional disorder and it becomes very harmful to them.

15 (25m 42s):
If they're caught in a medical system, that's telling them this is all brain damage. Now it's very validating for the patient, but if they do have a functional disorder, it's potentially very harmful because you're denying them the opportunity to consider treatment of their condition. Through other means.

3 (25m 59s):
Now thinking of Havana syndrome as a functional disorder could mean that it wasn't caused by an outside energy source, but at the same time, it doesn't necessarily rule out the possibility. John is still open to the idea that an energy source could be part of the equation here. Perhaps

15 (26m 14s):
There is a Sonic weapon. If someone said that that has been built and it's possible to direct it, I would absolutely accept that. But even if there is a Sonic weapon, is it the case that some people had a Sonic attack that affected their brain and then they improved again. Whereas other people gradually got worse because they developed a functional disorder. These are scientific hypotheses to be tested without dismissing out of hand, because of someone's prejudice about what disorders,

3 (26m 47s):
This last idea that Havana syndrome could have been caused by an initial energy source. And then it could have become chronic because of a functional disorder. John's not the only one suggesting it in late 2020, the national academies of sciences put out a report along the same lines, but still they equivocated. And they said that other causes couldn't be ruled out because the truth is that right now, there's still no way to definitively say what happened to these patients. We can rely on imaging to an extent, but even that requires interpretation. And that's largely because the brain is just absurdly ridiculously complicated. So in the end, we're left with a pretty giant unknown here.

3 (27m 28s):
We can locate that unknown outside the brain, but we can also locate it within the brain itself.

5 (27m 35s):
I don't understand how my brain works. I don't understand how I do anything.

3 (27m 41s):
Science journalists, Dan Hurley. Again,

5 (27m 43s):
Nobody understands how our brain works.

3 (27m 45s):
He's only slightly exaggerated.

5 (27m 47s):
How does your brain right now create the impression that you are here, that this is your body, that that's the clock on the wall. You know, where you are, who you are, your brain is this incredible Oregon that creates your reality. It creates your reality. So maybe it's created a reality that isn't actually consistent with the physical body. You know, we need to be humble in our appreciation of what we don't know about the brain.

16 (28m 39s):
This episode was produced and scored by Noah Hassenfeld. There were edits from Meredith Hoddinott and Brian Resnick with some help from Daniel Gross and Jillian Weinberger, the mixing and sound design was done by Christian ALA. And the fact checking was done by me, Mandy, Nouwen special. Thanks to Adam entas of fame, Shapiro, Julia blues, and Emily set Byrd. Pinkerton is very noisy, but not in a mysterious way. Lauren Katz heads up our newsletter and Liz Kelly Nelson. As the VP of ox audio, you can sign up for our newsletter or read our articles or look@ourshowtranscriptsatbox.com slash unexplainable, unexplainable as a part of the box media podcast network.