1 (2s):
The former president of the United States seemingly kicked off his 2024 campaign with an unending stream of legal woves. His biggest competitor, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis kicked off his campaign last night with something called Twitter Spaces.

2 (19s):
Yeah, I think we've got a, just a massive number of people online, so it's servers restraining somewhat. But

1 (28s):
Elon and Ron eventually got the boat back on the tracks.

3 (31s):
We will never surrender to the woke mob and we will leave Woke ideology in the dust bin of history

1 (39s):
Coming up on today explained. He's running

4 (45s):
His overarching pitch, like essentially the one line elevator pitch has been Make America, Florida, which sentence, you know, joy up the spines of some people and fear for others.

5 (1m 0s):
Prescription weight loss injections are all over the news right now. People want them, people can't get them. Everyone is talking about them. They seem to work by removing hunger. But what does that really mean? This

6 (1m 12s):
Episode of Gastropod, we talk to people who've taken these drugs and felt their hunger suddenly disappear. We

5 (1m 17s):
Also talk to the researchers who are figuring out the science of hunger and fullness, how it works and how it shapes our lives, plus why each of us experiences it so differently. Come

6 (1m 28s):
With us behind the headlines to hear what these drugs can tell us about the feelings that bookend each and every meal. Listen to Gastropod wherever you get your podcasts.

7 (1m 37s):
A live action remake of a Little Mermaid hits theaters this week with a black princess Ariel, which good, right?

8 (1m 47s):
It is very much giving the skin of diversity, but not the root of it. It doesn't feel fully integrated into the movie

7 (1m 57s):
Disney and Black Princesses and the Racial Politics of Fairy Tales. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast

9 (2m 17s):
Explained 2024 explained

1 (2m 19s):
Matt Dixon is a reporter at N B C covering Florida politics. And when he told us Ron DeSantis wants to make America, Florida, we were like, but also like, what exactly do you mean, sir? So we broke out the governor's conservative checklist, abortion. We

3 (2m 38s):
Are here today to defend those who can't defend themselves.

0 (2m 44s):
Well,

4 (2m 44s):
He signed two bills. One was a 15 week ban, which was last year, and that's still in the courts this year. He signed a six week abortion ban. That'll only become law if the courts sign off and say the 15 week ban was constitutional. So moving very fast with abortion restrictions for sure.

3 (3m 1s):
This will represent the most significant protections for life that have been enacted in this state. And the generation

1 (3m 9s):
Education.

4 (3m 11s):
He's essentially rewired the, the institution he has put his considerable political muscle into normally kind of sleepy school board races. He elected, gosh, I think it was 20 more than 20 school board members during the 2022 primaries. And those are very, very sort of far right school board members who want to sort of, you know, rework the institution of public education. They're going after sort of diversity programs, what can be taught in classrooms, you know, what books are in libraries. So he has gotten more than I think any governor in the country and certainly any governor in Florida history, very, very involved in school board races and sort of micromanaging what happens in the, at the classroom level. He's essentially taken the institution of, of education at both the K-12 level and higher education and remade it in his own image.

3 (3m 58s):
As many of you know, I think the last couple years have really revealed to parents that they are being ignored increasingly across our country when it comes to their kids' education. We have seen curriculum embedded for very, very young children, classroom materials about sexuality and woke gender ideology. We've seen libraries that have clearly inappropriate,

1 (4m 25s):
Don't say gay,

4 (4m 25s):
That don't say gay legislation, which got a ton of attention last year. And it's sort of a part of what supporters of that movement call parental empowerment. Essentially the idea that parents should have a bigger say than sort of school districts, teachers, administrators, and generally those fall along the lines of, of, to some degree a, you know, the partisan spectrum. So, you know, the idea of parental empowerment usually involves them advocating for ideas that are supported by conservatives and not liberals and DeSantis has been on the forefront of a lot of that stuff

3 (4m 56s):
In Florida. We not only know that parents have a right to be involved, we insist that parents have a right to be involved.

1 (5m 5s):
He also seems to have some opinions on trans rights.

4 (5m 9s):
Yeah, he actually just signed, gosh, four or five bills all at once just last week. You know, banning gender affirming care from minors. Teachers can no longer ask students about their preferred pronouns. There's a, a bathroom bill, which we've seen in a lot of other states where you students in schools and other sort of taxpayer funded public facilities can, can only use the bathroom for the, the gender they were assigned at birth. What

3 (5m 33s):
We've said in Florida is we are gonna remain a refuge of sanity and a citadel of normalcy, and kids should have an upbringing that that reflects that.

1 (5m 44s):
Also vaguely related, perhaps Disney.

4 (5m 52s):
The fight between DeSantis and the mouse has really sort of defined Florida politics from a 10,000 foot perspective for the past year.

10 (5m 59s):
Disney announcing that it is canceling plans to build a new campus in central Florida. This was estimated to cost nearly 1 billion. Disney is also no longer asking about 2000 employees in its parks experiences in products division, which it had previously asked them to relocate to Florida to do so.

4 (6m 17s):
He's got national attention and I don't think we've seen an example of a governor, you know, picking a fight with one of its state's biggest employers before it's usually sort of, especially, especially a Republican governor. It's a part of another tenant that he talks about a lot. He started to refer to companies that disagree with him politically as so-called woke

3 (6m 35s):
Corporations.

4 (6m 36s):
And he's taken a much harder line approach against, you know, the business community than you would traditionally see from Republican governors. And without question, you know, Disney is the biggest bullet point in that presentation.

1 (6m 48s):
I feel like I'd be remiss to not mention immigration.

4 (6m 52s):
Yeah, no, no. He has every year passed sort of an immigration crackdown. We

3 (6m 57s):
Have leaned in on illegal immigration in the state of Florida

4 (7m 1s):
This year. The, the biggest flashpoint with that was that companies with more than 25 employees have to use the e-verify system, the federal database that checks a worker's employment eligibility.

3 (7m 14s):
This makes Florida the largest state in the country to do full e-verify for employment. And that's important because the people are gonna come if they get benefits. And so what you want to do is say there's not benefits for coming illegally.

4 (7m 30s):
The hospitality and agriculture and the, the business community really opposed that. And so that has sort of sparked been a, been a shock to the system a little bit and was one of the biggest elements of, of an immigration bill that, that we have seen here in quite some time.

1 (7m 45s):
Guns just

4 (7m 46s):
This legislative session, which ended in May. So it's relatively recent. They passed and DeSantis signed legislation that no longer requires concealed carry permits, but you know, you no longer need a permit to carry a gun in Florida

3 (8m 0s):
With all due respect to these leftists. They just want to come after your second Amendment rights.

1 (8m 5s):
And then lastly, somehow election laws.

4 (8m 9s):
He has passed, gosh, I think three years in a row, some version of an election, a bill that, that Democrats certainly argue limits the ability of people to vote. Mostly, you know, democratically in the organizations. There's been a lot of focus on college campuses. This year's version, it was a really sweeping bill, but among many things it increased penalties by quite a bit for third party voter registration groups. So if you go out and you wanna register people to vote and you make a mistake, you violate a state law, you know, even if it's unintentional, you know, there, there are rules in place. The fines that you have to pay, that the threshold went up huge.

3 (8m 47s):
And me signing this bill here says, Florida, your vote counts. Your vote is gonna be cast with integrity and transparency. And this is a great place for real

11 (8m 57s):
Quick question, governor, real quick question.

1 (8m 58s):
Will you, so it sounds like a veritable breakfast buffet of conservative policy. How is it playing out in, in Florida, which in recent memory was a purple state?

4 (9m 9s):
I mean, this is a state that was a one or two point state for a long time, DeSantis one in in November by 20 points. So there's been two things kind of happening. I I think Republicans here in Florida absolutely love these policies. Hmm. And there's sort of been a cratering of the Democratic party here. It's Democrats nationally don't fund things the way they used to. There's democrats for most of political history here in Florida, had a huge voter registration advantage. There was more registered Democrats than Republicans for the first time in history. That is now reversed. Republicans have a, a significant registration lead. So there's been sort of, you know, Florida's been an experiment and, and when one political party is well funded and the other political party gives up and we saw how sort of quickly it can, it can remake a state.

4 (9m 52s):
And, and Florida's a a sort of really good laboratory to study that dynamic,

1 (9m 55s):
Especially when it comes to like the Disney situation. It feels like some of these policies that Ron DeSantis is pushing could alienate people on the right because evidently he just chased away thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in investment in Orlando. How is the Republican establishment responding to Ron DeSantis?

4 (10m 21s):
I mean, I, I think Disney is probably the best one to look at. Cause I do think there are republicans who are, are turned off by that one. But by and large, I mean the culture war, political persona that has been around DeSantis isn't new. It's existed for a couple, you know, since, you know, 2020. And he's gotten a lot of really endorsements. He's raising a ton of money. He is expected to have the most money of any Republican in the field. So if those traditional campaign, you know, metrics are of any indication, the the culture war stuff isn't, you know, really turning off the people who make presidential campaigns work. We've seen a couple individual donors come out and say, well, we're a little leery of this stuff.

4 (11m 2s):
But I think those are the exception and not the rule at this point based on, on how much money he raised during his reelection as governor, which was a huge amount of money, over $200 million, which is crazy for a state level race. And then the fact that he is anticipated to, to really sort of, you know, lead the pack as far as fundraising in this Republican primary. Those are, those are classic metrics for, you know, sort of measuring support among the, you know, the establishment class. And I think DeSantis is gonna be doing quite well there.

1 (11m 30s):
How is the former president responding to his governor becoming America's governor?

4 (11m 36s):
Oh, as you can imagine, very even keeled. He's handling it great. No, he's, he's, he's, he's attacking him near daily. He's using truth social and pretty much anytime a camera's put in his face to come after Ron Des pneumonias, as he calls him, team

12 (11m 52s):
Trump dropping a new ad, hitting DeSantis for his tax plan, calling him a new nickname, Ron Des sales tax, Ron

13 (11m 60s):
Des sales tax plan to make you pay more

14 (12m 3s):
With the sales tax here, got the sales tax, there

15 (12m 6s):
Were tax everywhere sales

4 (12m 8s):
Tax. It should be reminded that Trump endorsement really played a huge role in DeSantis winning his first race in 2018. That's something that Donald Trump likes to bring up time and time again. I got

16 (12m 19s):
Him the nomination, by the way, couldn't have never gotten the nomination. He would be working in either a pizza power place or a law office right now. Okay. And he wouldn't be very hassle. It's about loyalty. It's about loyalty. It is to me. Okay, let me just,

4 (12m 31s):
Trump is, I think, sees DeSantis as his only potential threat because he's actually, he's welcomed other Republican candidates into the race, which is not normal for a primary. Usually you don't welcome direct competition. But I think he sees a bigger field and a field with lots of candidates as advantageous to him. And there has been just a, a barrage of attacks each week, you know, since, since he got on the race as a result.

1 (13m 1s):
Matt Dixon, NBC News when we're back v's. Andrew Pro Cop is gonna try and get inside the head of Ron DeSantis

19 (13m 22s):
Fox Creative. This is advertiser content brought to you by WhatsApp.

18 (13m 26s):
Privacy is empowerment and agency.

19 (13m 30s):
Billions of texts are sent every day, and you may think they're private, but without end-to-end encryption. Cybersecurity expert Matt Mitchell says, our messages are anything but secure.

18 (13m 40s):
Many times there's an assumption that we're having a private conversation with just our friends when we're actually having that conversation in a very crowded elevator filled with random people, some who might not have our best interests at heart. With

19 (13m 54s):
WhatsApp, your personal messages are kept private by default To understand how we asked Matt to share an ABCs of end-to-end encryption. A is for asymmetric

18 (14m 4s):
With asymmetric encryption. It uses mathematics and we are forging a public key and a private key when we use a product like WhatsApp. This lock-in key exists inside the device itself. When you send a message, it is scrambled the entire time, only visible to you and to the intended recipients.

19 (14m 24s):
B is for backdoor.

18 (14m 26s):
A backdoor is a secret way to get into the message. They can be created by bad actors or hacked in.

19 (14m 33s):
And c is for cipher.

18 (14m 35s):
We're talking about the ways that the messages are scrambled and the ways they can be decoded, almost like a secret decoder ring.

19 (14m 45s):
So when you send your personal messages through WhatsApp's, end-to-end encrypted platform, you know, no third parties can decipher them.

18 (14m 51s):
The more we use good digital hygiene, the more we protect all of us. WhatsApp always message

1 (14m 58s):
Privately

20 (15m 4s):
Every week, it seems like we hear about something else that AI can do, whether it's write poetry, figure out your workout plan or even be your new boyfriend.

21 (15m 12s):
That's weird and a little sad. But as fun or as weird as artificial intelligence can be, experts are worried about what the future holds. And so am I

20 (15m 20s):
I'm Naza, that's Kara Swisher and we make the podcast on with Kara Swisher. This

21 (15m 25s):
Week we took a look at the dangers that AI poses with Tristan Harris, the former Google Design ethicist who co-founded the Center for Humane Technology,

20 (15m 33s):
From job displacement to deep fakes and more disinformation to the fear that AI will become a Gollum, which guys is not just from Lord of the Rings. No, it's

21 (15m 41s):
A really famous old thing, but anyway, it's never good.

20 (15m 44s):
But don't worry, it's not all sinister here. We'll acknowledge much of the good that AI can unleash too.

21 (15m 48s):
It's a fantastic episode and a thought provoking one. And it's live Now. Search for on with Kara Swisher. Wherever you get your podcasts,

22 (16m 3s):
Florida is where to die

1 (16m 8s):
Today. Explained Sean Ramas for a question we've been trying to answer on this show for some time now, is what does Ron DeSantis believe? And the person we've most recently posed this question to is Vox, is Andrew Procop and Andrew, like those before him, essentially said, DeSantis believes an opportunity.

23 (16m 27s):
Yes. I I think that's probably the best description of him because he has been very malleable on the issues and on what he purports to care about at the time, what he spends his time focusing on. You know, all politicians do this to some extent. They follow where the winds are blowing, but DeSantis really, really does. He throws himself into each new reinvention. And in, in a relatively short career in politics, just about a little over a decade, he has embraced many of these new personas. I think at least five.

23 (17m 7s):
It starts with when he's first running for office, for an open house district in Florida in 2012,

3 (17m 14s):
Unless the economy starts growing more than 1.3%, you're not gonna be able to reduce unemployment and you're not gonna be able to deal with the budget deficit. This

23 (17m 22s):
Was the time of the Tea Party. What was all the rage that year was big cuts to government spending. That's what all these tea party groups were demanding. So that's what he focused on too. He tried to cultivate these national conservative groups and national conservative figures to get their endorsements to help distinguish him from the other more locally focused Republicans in the race. And it worked. He won the primary and he got into Congress as a, as a leading tea partier. Hmm. But if we go forward a few years, he, he tried to run for Senate, it didn't work out.

23 (18m 2s):
He needed to

1 (18m 3s):
Reinvent himself

23 (18m 3s):
Maybe. Oh, yes, exactly. And, and because this was when the entire Republican party was going through this reinvention because of Donald Trump. And DeSantis was looking for his next move, and eventually he decided pretty early, actually to become the most lavish over the top Trump defender in Congress. Well,

3 (18m 27s):
The strongest evidence of collusion, Trish, is between the Clintons and the Russians, not Trump and the Russians.

23 (18m 40s):
He was pretty early in, let's say debasing himself so thoroughly and really tried to cultivate Trump's endorsement for the next office. He had his eye on the Florida governorship. Again, he was facing a more established Republican in the primary, but DeSantis strategy was basically Trump, Trump, Trump. He ran this absolutely ridiculous ad where he's reading the art of the deal to his young child. Then

3 (19m 11s):
Mr. Trump said, you're fired. I love that

23 (19m 14s):
Part. He plays with blocks with his daughter and builds the wall with his blocks, build the

3 (19m 20s):
Wall. Pretty

23 (19m 21s):
Insulting stuff. But Republicans in Florida ate it up and he won the primary big,

1 (19m 27s):
And then he gets to be governor, and then he reinvents himself again.

23 (19m 31s):
He gets to be governor, but only barely. He wins the general election over Democrat Andrew Gillum by a very small amount in the democratic wave year of 2018. It seems that after that he cast a bow and he decided, wait a minute, maybe I wasn't focusing enough on the median voter. So his first year as governor of Florida, 2019, we see a very different DeSantis from what we're currently seeing. Now, this has been a, an almost totally forgotten period in his history because of what came after. If

3 (20m 5s):
We overcome the tribalism that has dominated our politics, if we set aside, if we set the interests of hardworking taxpayers as our true north, then I have no doubt that the state of Florida will cruise to bright new horizons.

23 (20m 22s):
He governed, as you know, saying from the center would be too strong. But he, he governed as a pragmatist, avoiding the big national culture war battles, and really focusing on areas where he could find consensus with Democrats in the state. He focused on clean water. He pushed to raise teacher salaries. He appointed some Democrats to his administration. He posthumously pardoned for black men who had been falsely accused of rape in 1949. He was, this was a, a real kinder, gentler DeSantis, and his approval rating soared, and then things took a turn after that. Again,

3 (21m 2s):
There's been a lot that's been done to try to promote fear, to promote worst case scenarios, to drive hysteria. And I think people should know that that worst case scenario, thinking that has not proven to be true.

23 (21m 18s):
So Covid hits, and after that, DeSantis seems to have again looked for which way the wind was blowing on the right, but also among typical voters. He's placed a bet very early that people weren't going to like it if Covid restrictions kept up too long, that it would be in his political interest to rebrand himself as an opponent of these covid restrictions and a critic of the democratic and public health establishment.

3 (21m 53s):
Everyone in the media was saying Florida was gonna be like New York or Italy, and that has not happened.

23 (21m 59s):
Cases surged in the summer, critics called him Death Satis, but he, he kept onward with it. And politically it worked out because he won reelection overwhelmingly in 2022.

3 (22m 15s):
That would not have been ha been possible if we had followed Fauci. Instead, we followed freedom, and that's the reason why Florida's doing better

1 (22m 26s):
By my count, Andrew, that's, that's four reinventions. The fifth has to be the one we've covered several times on this show. Now, what do you call it?

23 (22m 34s):
Well, this is DeSantis the culture warrior. You know, after he was, he was a fighter on Covid, he decided to be a fighter for the Republican right. On a series of other very hot button issues, trying to, to really cause controversy on them and push the state as far to the right as he could. And he was really just, just glomming on, again, to what the causes that the national Republican right were most crazy about in these years. What, what they were most focused on and what tended to get him attention nationally and importantly, attention on Fox News, because Fox News was constantly pursuing all of these issues and they loved having DeSantis on in the 20 21, 20 22 period, and they really helped build him up and, and helped make him one possible alternative to Trump.

23 (23m 34s):
If

3 (23m 34s):
You're being attacked by NBC and cnn, I know you are doing a hell of a job,

1 (23m 42s):
Is there any chance that Ron and Don could, you know, team up and get the best of both worlds here? Or is that sort of ship sailed with all the Snyder remarks about each other? Isn't that politics though?

23 (23m 51s):
For all intents and purposes, that ship has already sailed because of the United States Constitution. Oh. Because it has a provision that makes it really problematic for a presidential and vice presidential candidate on the same ticket to be from the same state.

1 (24m 7s):
Ah-huh.

23 (24m 8s):
Specifically, the issue here is that when a state's electors are casting their votes for president and vice president, they're not allowed to vote for two people from their own state. So Florida electors cannot vote for two Florida men for president and vice president and Florida is really, really important to Republicans electoral math these days. So it's basically a non-starter for Republicans to, to run two Florida men because they have to forfeit Florida's electoral votes for at least the vice presidency. Now, one workaround might be that either of them could move and change their residents to another state that's a little hard for the governor of Florida to do.

23 (24m 52s):
Trump of course, has split his time from New York and Florida, but he's currently having some trouble with the law in New York and might want to minimize his time in that state for fear of being charged with further crimes.

1 (25m 6s):
You know, ProGo, there was a time last year where DeSantis felt like a real threat to the Donald, but now between an extremely extreme abortion ban and a big fight with the mouse and just generally not being very likable or charming, it feels like maybe he's in a bit of a rut on the national stage at least. Do you think this is just a slump and Ron transitional stage before he figures out his sixth iteration?

23 (25m 32s):
I, I, I think the question is whether, you know, he could run his calculations through the old optimizer and, and, and figure out the, the new persona, the new thing that's missing, whether he'll be able to adopt a more forward looking persona. I've always thought his strongest critique of Trump is to argue that Trump is a loser that he lost in 2020. His candidates lost in 2022, and if Republicans won impede Biden, they should nominate DeSantis a winner. And so he's like, he's hinted at that argument, but we're gonna need to see him actually take on Trump more directly and make that case more aggressively.

23 (26m 19s):
I think for that message to hit home,

1 (26m 29s):
Andrew broke up. vox.com is where you can read his work. We were produced today by Amanda Lou Ellen, edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Michael Rayfield. The program is today explained. Tomorrow we are back to not talking about this election that is 530 days away.