0 (1s):
Lots of healthcare professionals, doctors, nurses, pharmacists, predicted that there would be chaos in their field. If Roe V. Wade was overturned. Here's what the president of the American medical association Jack Resnick has spent the past weeks hearing from some of those people,

1 (16s):
Physicians are literally having to call their hospital attorneys and ask questions. Like there's a 30% chance of this patient dying enough to meet our state's new criteria is the risk of losing one kidney enough to count as the health of the mother,

0 (31s):
The health of the mother under these new laws, it doesn't count so much because it can't.

1 (37s):
We're also seeing patients with a new cancer diagnosis. Life-threatening cancer is where they can't start their chemotherapy until they terminate their pregnancy

0 (46s):
And they can't terminate their pregnancy. So they can't get chemo coming up. The unintended consequences, the things we didn't predict, the people trying to get through this on today explained

Cities (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action that together cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, health care, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G.

Facebook (1m 43s):
Facebook is taking action to keep its platform safe. Their safety and security teams are over 40,000 strong. That's more than the size of the FBI. All for more meaningful connections. Learn more about the work ahead@facebook.com forward slash action

0 (2m 3s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. After Roe was overturned, Francis Steed sellers, a senior writer at the Washington post started looking into these stories about confusion among medical professionals.

5 (2m 16s):
Early on in my reporting, I talked to her doctor, I remember in Kansas city, Missouri, who said that once the laws came through, she found herself going to the lawyers who work in the hospital, describing the various scenarios that come in the regular treatment of people who are pregnant. There has been an awful lot of uncertainty, and that's not only for patients, but also for doctors and pharmacists. Who've been trying to navigate their way through what seemed like very murky laws.

7 (2m 49s):
How sick does she have to be before the staff felt comfortable delivering her because of this law hanging over our head, we're calling the lawyer first

8 (2m 59s):
Saying, Hey, we need to do this. Is that okay? If I proceed,

5 (3m 3s):
People can start having miscarriages. And then their miscarriage may not complete and they need to use the same drugs or people's waters break early. That can be very dangerous. The pregnancy may end on its own or there may be a remaining heartbeat, but they develop sepsis. They can go into a very extreme situation very quickly. There can be ectopic pregnancies. There's another viable and women need to terminate those pregnancies very, very quickly. They're life-threatening. But none of these scenarios, I think did the lawyer fully understand until this doctor sat down and tried to explain to her the kinds of complications that come with regular treatment of his, of obstetric care, there are those kinds of complications, but then many others with medications as well.

5 (3m 47s):
The medications that are used to treat miscarriages are the same ones as for abortions. And also many medications have many uses and can damage fetuses. So there's a whole enormously complicated sphere of issues that have come up for doctors and for pharmacists. And as I said, as well for patients themselves,

10 (4m 13s):
What's going on with pharmacists,

5 (4m 15s):
Many of the drugs that are used in particularly one called methotrexate, which is used to and ectopic pregnancies, these pregnancies that occur outside the uterus have other uses. Methotrexate is used for cancer. It's also used very commonly and very effectively to treat rheumatoid arthritis.

11 (4m 35s):
In fact, it's the first line of treatment for most people after they're diagnosed. And it serves as the gold standard against which other treatments are evaluated.

5 (4m 45s):
But in these states that have very restrictive laws, pharmacists need to be sure for their own safety for their own sake, that when they hand out methotrexate, they're doing so for people who are taking it for rheumatoid arthritis, not to stop a pregnancy. Now, I think a lot of these things, these issues are actually going to settle out eventually, but still in this moment of confusion, pharmacies are asking pharmacists to make sure they know exactly what the drugs are being used for. And that can mean asking for diagnosis codes, or it can be contacting the patient's physician.

10 (5m 19s):
England. No blend is a long-term user of methotrexate for rheumatoid arthritis, but says a pharmacy recently put her refill on hold.

12 (5m 27s):
They needed to make sure that my rheumatologists actually prescribed me methotrexate for my RA and that so that I could, you know, abort a fetus.

5 (5m 36s):
Now, let me add a little wrinkle to that. These drugs, many of these drugs can also damage fetuses

13 (5m 43s):
Women who are pregnant or at increased risk for death of the baby. And for birth defects, women who are pregnant or who plan to become pregnant must not take a Trex up.

5 (5m 51s):
So there's an added risk for doctors who may be prescribing a drug like methotrexate, well worry that the patient may accidentally become pregnant. Now they can't counsel patients, but we all know that accidental pregnancies can happen. Then there's a whole ethical question, right? Women in the past with these accidental pregnancies, might've had to resort to terminating the pregnancy. Instead. Now will they have to carry a fetus and potentially a very severely damaged fetus to term.

0 (6m 23s):
We should note, there were people who said when Roe versus Wade is overturned. Everything will be fine. Abortion has been illegal in, in many states, you know, prior to the overturning, what gave you the hunch that actually there might be chaos. Why'd you start looking?

5 (6m 38s):
Well, we saw an awful lot of reaction on Twitter. People were very worried about a lot of people talked about delays and denials and getting their drugs. We also saw stories of women beginning to bleed out before their ectopic pregnancies were being treated. Some of these stories seemed extreme. We also had from patient advocacy organizations who said that we hearing from a lot of people who were having trouble getting their drugs. Those advocacy organizations are checking up and verifying the stories. And we spent a lot of time. We took, we didn't rush these stories in any way. We followed up with people and there was some legitimate misunderstandings we found.

5 (7m 20s):
I talked to a woman in a blue state who said she was being denied or delayed her methotrexate. It turned out when I called the pharmacy and went back to her and talked about the time she went, she turned up during the pharmacist lunch. So the woman had made an understandable assumption, a wrong assumption. She was, she was relieved when we found out what had happened, but in this very heightened political atmosphere, there are delays and denials happening. There are definitely problems happening that we're able to track, but there's also a lot of anxiety that is allowing people sometimes to overstate the problems. One of my colleagues actually spoke to a woman who had decided to be sterilized because her doctor would no longer prescribe a methotrexate because of the risk of her becoming pregnant.

5 (8m 10s):
Now she was a, somebody with a history of infertility. She didn't think it was a big risk herself, but that was the decision she made. I've talked to other women, another woman who decided to have a hysterectomy because she couldn't risk a pregnancy because she had a very dangerous condition called preeclampsia. When your blood pressure goes very high during two previous pregnancies and actually had had strokes. So some women have been forced to take very extreme steps in order to prevent unwanted pregnancies. Right now we're in a very, very confusing situation for women and it is causing enormous emotional distress.

0 (8m 45s):
Our patients forced to have these conversations with pharmacists at the pharmacy window in front of other customers.

5 (8m 53s):
We've heard of that happening. I was

14 (8m 55s):
Because I was in a pharmacy line and I, I said, okay, do you also need to know the first date of my last period as well?

5 (9m 3s):
There are some very distressing situations where women need another drug for, to complete a miscarriage. And then, then are asked at a pharmacy window. Are you sure this is for our miscarriage and not to have an abortion? And that can be very, very distressing. I think one of the other things that's happened is we're just coming out of the most extreme moments with COVID and there's lots of turmoil anyway, in the medical system. So pharmacies are realigning their needs, doctors as well have been under extreme pressure. And I think this coming on top of that, this kind of massive rethinking of how they go about their jobs, this caution, because, you know, OB GYN has always faced very high rates of malpractice allegations, but these are felonies.

5 (9m 49s):
And suddenly that changes the calculus for doctors. So this is a situation of immense change. That's coming just as people are emerging from COVID with all the stresses that has put on the system,

0 (10m 4s):
How is pregnancy care changing?

5 (10m 7s):
You know, some of these laws came into effect immediately after the Supreme court's Dobbs decision. I talked to some doctors in Ohio who treat high risk pregnancies, who had, had to cancel planned abortions for the following week for women who had come to the very, very difficult decision to terminate pregnancies. When they realized that that fetuses had extreme abnormalities, they were then told they had to travel out of state. So in all these areas, these complex areas, as the laws change, doctors are having to get advice about what it means for them and for their continued treatment of patients and patients are having to learn on the fly, what they need to do.

5 (10m 48s):
If they do feel they need to terminate a pregnancy.

0 (10m 51s):
Did you speak to doctors who said once upon a time, I would make a decision. I'm a professional. Now I go and talk to a lawyer. I go and talk to a colleague. I go and make sure that what I'm doing is okay.

5 (11m 3s):
I have heard from doctors who were advised to talk to ethics boards and otherwise outside groups and resisted it fiercely others though, do consult with lawyers or with other doctors. So for example, before dealing with an ectopic to make sure there are, there are complications with ectopic pregnancies. Sometimes when the, when the cells settle either on a uterine scar from a, from a <inaudible> section or cannot be seen. And so the doctors left in a sort of gray area, trying to figure out exactly where it is and worrying. It might be inside the uterus, which would then put them at risk. And they've had to consult other people before moving ahead with a procedure that should be done expeditiously because it is a life-saving procedure, but many have resisted hospital ethics boards, because those people are not experts in wa and the way that fellow doctors are.

5 (11m 56s):
And it may delay the treatment to go outside to external ethics boards,

0 (12m 2s):
The doctors who are resisting, going to ethics boards, what reasons do they give

5 (12m 6s):
One doctor? We spoke to, for example, talk to a colleague and a radiologist who had examined the patient themselves. They were right there and they were able to work as quickly as they can. Another doctor I spoke to who had a patient who was developing sepsis after their water's broke early, consulted a lawyer. But that doctor said to me, this was a very black and white case. She still felt she needed to call her lawyer as she went in, just to explain what she was doing. This is in the immediate days after the Dobbs decision,

0 (12m 35s):
How often and how serious are the delays now? I mean, what you're talking about is essentially a thing that used to happen with some amount of immediacy. How serious is the problem of slow down

5 (12m 47s):
On every individual case it's immensely serious, right? We're talking about lifesaving procedures documenting this across the country is very, very hard. Doctors have always had to respect patient's privacy. This is through the HIPAA regulations. In addition to that now many women in this very heightened political atmosphere, don't particularly want to talk about their cases. I'll put their names out there. So reporting this, discovering the numbers, figuring this all out is going to take a long time.

0 (13m 28s):
Coming up on today, explained to it's not just reporters like Francis Steed sellers who are hearing about post row chaos. The president of the American medical association is going to tell us about the calls he's been getting from doctors.

AbbVie (13m 58s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by Abby. We're always trying to understand how do we stop disease, right? Disease comes in. We try to stop it. That's how we practice medicine. An interesting thought would be, what if we actually didn't get disease? What if we prevented disease? Hi, my name is Howard Jacob. I'm a vice-president at AbbVie. I had the genomic research center and I also had our data integration across R and D Better. Medicine starts with better information. So Howard and Abby have been studying a collection of more than 1 million human genomes to advance our understanding of disease. It's a large amount of data. Your DNA extended end to end from all of your a hundred trillion cells would go to the sun and back 666.5 times. All of that information will have major implications for the future of health care. Helping doctors tailor treatment to every patient's needs. For many genes, there are tests where you can actually say, oh, this is the dose you should take. This is when you should take it. And this is why you're taking it. It opens the door for prescribing medications differently and at different doses for each individual, Their work is already saving lives, but genetic researchers are far from satisfying. I just know that we can do more. I know we can enable physicians to practice medicine better. I know we can able patients to live healthier lives. I know we can develop better therapies and we just have to do it To learn more about how AbbVie is shaping the future of medicine. Visit here now.abb V I E

Upside (15m 39s):
Today's episode is sponsored by upside from the gas pump to the check at your favorite restaurant. Inflation. It's bad out there, but saving money on everyday stuff can really add up over time upside as an app for anyone who buys gas or groceries or eats out with every purchase, you can earn cash back upside partners with businesses near you, who would like to win you over with great offers. Plus they have 50,000 partner locations across the country, download the free upside app and use the promo code explained to get $5 or more cash back on your first purchase of $10 or more that's $5 or more cash back on your first purchase of $10 or more using the promo code explained

15 (16m 29s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king.

0 (16m 31s):
And we are back with Jack Resnick.

1 (16m 34s):
I am a dermatologist at UCF in San Francisco, California, and president of the American medical association.

0 (16m 40s):
The AMA

1 (16m 42s):
The American medical association represents physicians and works to make sure that doctors around the country have the tools they need to take care of patients in the United States.

0 (16m 54s):
It seems like dermatology Jack's area of expertise would be unaffected by Roe being overturned. That is not the case. It turns out

1 (17m 2s):
Even dermatologists. And a lot of these states are now running into several things they prescribed where a pharmacist won't fill them. You know, even kids getting Accutane for severe acne or a variety of psoriasis or skin cancer drugs, where pharmacists are now demanding diagnoses and demanding pregnancy tests and demanding other things because they're scared of being prosecuted,

0 (17m 22s):
Kids getting Accutane. That's when that never would've occurred to me in all honesty, what's the main thing that doctors are afraid of.

1 (17m 30s):
Well, there's tremendous fear, frankly, about prosecution and many of these states violating these restrictive laws is a level five felony. So physicians face going to prison for taking care of the patient. That's right in front of them. What

17 (17m 47s):
Are we supposed to do? Do we wait until it's too late and get sued by the family and rightly so, or do we do, you know, our job, what we're trained to do and have to defend that in court,

1 (18m 0s):
We're worried about patients being prosecuted. We're worrying about patients, friends, and family being prosecuted. We've even seen instances where people's social media posts and messages are, are, are being gathered by law enforcement. So I just can't sugar coat, what a dangerous time this is.

0 (18m 19s):
And so I guess this brings us to the question of what can the AMA do about all of this?

1 (18m 25s):
The Supreme court has really cut off a major legal avenue that we typically used in the courts to push back when state governments stepped in and tried to insert themselves and to healthcare decisions that really should be between doctors and patients, but we're doing everything we can to try to mitigate the downsides that we're facing and protect our patients as best we can. There's actually a federal law called EMTALA, and that's a law that's been on the books for many, many years, but it basically says that when you have a dying or unstable patient right there in front of you in an emergency department, that you have to take care of them regardless of their insurance or any other issues.

1 (19m 7s):
So for example, we worked with the white house and the us department of health and human services to ensure that there was clarity from the federal government, that that requirement really supersedes state laws, which might get in the way of a doctor being able to provide care for that unstable or dying patient. And we're thinking about other things that maybe haven't had as much coverage, like for example, medical education, what's going to happen to the next generation of physicians that we train in medical schools and residency programs in these states where they might not even get adequately trained in miscarriage or ectopic pregnancy management, because those things are so limited and their states

0 (19m 52s):
That's extraordinary. That seems to be almost deliberately taking us back in time. Medically

1 (19m 58s):
It's very scary. And it's something we've been facing for some time as we've had physicians training and certain hospitals, for example, that might have policies where, depending on the ownership structure of the hospital, some of the full spectrum of reproductive healthcare, including abortions might not be offered. But now to have entire states where that's happening really just adds to this, to this crisis. If they're not getting exposed to the full spectrum of reproductive health care that threatens the, their ability to take care of patients in the decades to come.

0 (20m 33s):
I think it's a pretty well understood fact that there are disparities in treatment in the United States. If you have more money, it's easier to get healthcare. If you live in certain areas, it's easier to get healthcare. When Roe vs Wade was overturned, do you think there was an immediate effect on how equitable healthcare in this country is?

1 (20m 55s):
I'm worried about the impact that it's going to have? I think these kinds of restrictive laws, we know that they fall hardest on historically marginalized populations, especially those without the resources to travel to other states or to miss several days of work. And we already have a maternal mortality crisis in this country, the maternal mortality rates in the U S are far higher than in any country on the globe with our level of resources. And that crisis is worse. For example, among black women, it's a problem that we need to solve in a problem that I'm fearful that this restriction and access to reproductive healthcare is going to make worse.

1 (21m 41s):
So getting back to some of the dangerous medical situations we talked about before, like ectopic pregnancies, not properly cared for those can threaten the life of a pregnant person. Had. I also think once you take away access to full spectrum reproductive healthcare, which includes physicians taking care of patients with desired pregnancies all the way through to delivery, and also sometimes includes abortion. What's going to happen in these states, particularly to marginalized populations, as these laws go into effect what we know, some things that are going to happen. We're going to see some patients turning to self-managed abortions without engagement of a healthcare team.

1 (22m 23s):
And we know that's less safe. We know that patients who have to travel for abortions are going to get them later in pregnancy, as they find the time and resources to travel and then wait and longer lines. And those states that are still providing access to that care. And then we also know there's a large body of evidence in the medical literature that shows us that those patients who are turned away and carry unwanted pregnancies all the way to term end up with more physical and mental health struggles over the course of their lives. They end up with worse economic outcomes and even a higher risk of intimate partner violence in their lives. So again, all of these things fall hardest on black, Latino, indigenous, transgender, and other populations.

1 (23m 12s):
And I am worried that that's going to get worse as received the fallout from, from this decision.

0 (23m 18s):
We are two plus years into a pandemic. And for much of the past two plus years, we've been hearing about burnout being a problem among doctors. What has the overturning of Roe meant for doctors mental health? You've described people who are genuinely scared for their careers, people who are scared of being prosecuted. How is this affecting mental health? What have you heard

1 (23m 44s):
When I talked to physicians about burnout kits, it's largely about those things that get in the way of what drew them to medicine in the first place, right? This is about obstacles to providing the care that they want to provide and that they know is best for their patients after informed consent and a process of engaging with patients and talking about the values that those patients also bring to the table. So this is yet another thing I think that, that will add to physician stress and worries me about making sure that we have the workforce. We need to take care of the health of the nation and the decade to come. And we are seeing substantial burnout. As you mentioned, I think physicians have been holding together a healthcare system these last few years that is stretched far too thin and something like 20% of them now say that they're going to retire in the next two years.

0 (24m 39s):
And lastly, I wonder about you, you're a dermatologist by trade and by training. That's

1 (24m 44s):
Right.

0 (24m 45s):
Do you ever have moments where you think, oh man, I just want to go back to being a dermatologist.

1 (24m 50s):
You know, I, I love getting to take care of patients and I still do that as part of my life and the privilege of getting to sit down one-to-one with a patient in an exam room and have them share their problems and their concerns with you and try to solve the puzzle or the mystery of what's wrong with them. And talk through ways to make them better is really one of the most fun things we get to do as physicians. But I equally love my work as president of the American medical association and getting to advocate for physicians and patients. It's not an easy time for so many reasons with assaults by governments, really trying to insert themselves and the exam room and into that doctor patient relationship.

1 (25m 36s):
But if anything, it motivates me even more as to the importance of doing this job. I get to work with incredible colleagues. I'm, I'm proud of the people that, and the profession that I represent. And I've, I've certainly learned in my time in this career, that one can never predict in any given year what the crises are going to be, but I'm glad I'm here and have the opportunity to try and make a difference.

0 (26m 12s):
Today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlain. It was edited by Matthew collect and fact checked by Laura Bullard. It was engineered by Paul Robert mousey I'm Noel's king it's today explained.