1 (2s):
Israel barraged Gaza with airstrikes today. Meanwhile, three aid convoys carrying food, water, and medication entered Gaza through its border with Egypt. The Biden administration is urging Israel to delay a ground invasion. It wants more aid to enter Gaza and more time for Hamas to free the hostages it's holding. Okay, that is the news on the war. All of that is true. Verified fact-checked. Thank you Laura, but so much else Here is not why this war became a haze of misinformation. Most

2 (37s):
Of the content that has, that has come from this wall hasn't been necessarily by professional journalists with a camera person recording. It's been actual ordinary people with their smartphones just taking videos of what's going on and putting it online. And then obviously that needs to be verified.

1 (54s):
Coming up. On today explained It is today explained. Abner Will King. So a lot of stuff circulating about this war is not real. What to do about that? Enter Cheyenne Sarda. He's a BBC journalist and he's part of a team of journalists at BBC who look for and flag misleading or fake content that's gone viral. I ask Cheyenne first to just define misinformation.

2 (1m 24s):
So I mean, the technical definition that most people who do this job seem to stick to is that misinformation is mostly content that is shared online, which is False, but there's no malicious intent behind it. But this information, you know, it takes it a nudge above that. That's when you know somebody is putting content out that is misleading and False because they think there'll be something, there'll be some gain for them from it.

1 (1m 50s):
Okay, so misinformation is mistakenly put out. Disinformation is deliberate. During this war for the past two weeks, what sorts of things, what sorts of misinformation and disinformation are you seeing being spread?

2 (2m 6s):
I have seen, I think it reminds me of the first few days, first few weeks actually, of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Very similar. We have had in the first two weeks of this war, a torrent of misinformation online, you know, videos being shared and posted, viewed by tens of millions of people that have had nothing to do with the war. I have seen videos from past Israeli, mass conflicts. This

3 (2m 32s):
Video of an attack by Israeli forces on Gaza is in fact that what it purports to be, but it's from May not from this current set of attacks

2 (2m 43s):
From the war in Syria, from the Ukraine war, from some of the uprisings in the Middle East. I've seen content from football celebrations. I've seen video game footage

4 (2m 53s):
Take this video saying, Hamas militants started a new airstrike on Israel. You see that? That's that video that is actually from a video game. It's not even real. You see the exact same video posted to YouTube here.

2 (3m 5s):
I've seen military exercise videos on YouTube that have been shared on, you know, TikTok, Facebook, Instagram, X, and have been viewed millions and millions of times.

5 (3m 16s):
This video allegedly shows dozens of Haleema fighters paragliding into Israel. Through a reverse image search, we were able to geolocate the area. The white building in the background is a military academy in Cairo,

2 (3m 30s):
And it's not just videos By the way, same thing with images. And in some cases, same thing with posts that do not contain any video or image, but make a very incendiary claim during the Fogal war that shocks people. And then it turns out it's completely unsourced. There's no evidence for it. You know, it's somebody who's just made it up. And then we get into, you know, people who, who, you know, for whatever reason create fake accounts, say, you know, fake I D F account or fake Hamas account, or fake account from an Israeli politician and try to get engagement off of it. So I've seen all of those and some more.

1 (4m 9s):
I wanna understand how your job works in real time. Can you walk me through the process of checking one of these claims that you've discovered is misinformation? Yeah,

2 (4m 19s):
Sure. I'll give you two. One misinformation, one disinformation. So obviously we know the way this particular conflict started was that on the Saturday 7th of October, Haleema militants infiltrated Israel and killed something between 1200 to 1300 Israeli citizens. And we know that some Israeli citizens were taking hostage during that attack that was unleashed on Israel. So a rumor began on the Sunday morning that some senior Israeli generals had been taken hostage by Hamas militants. And then a video came out in the afternoon, our time in the UK that got millions and millions of views online. It was on X, it was on Facebook, I saw it on Instagram, I saw it on TikTok.

2 (5m 4s):
It's a 32nd video, and in it you see a big black van, and then you see several men wearing military uniforms who look like security agents and balaclava with three men being escorted by security agents. And the caption on the video said several high profile Israeli generals captured by Hamas fighters, quote unquote. That's what it said. So while I, when I saw that, I was like, okay, we have reporters on the ground. They're not telling us anything like it. They've contacted the I D F, they're not saying any of the generals have been taken off stage. So let's properly check this. And if you check the video, there's a moment in the video that one of the security agents wearing a military uniform has the logo, D T X on there.

2 (5m 48s):
And I, I just searched for D T X and you know, lo and behold, D T X is the State Security Service of Azerbaijan. So then I thought, okay, this video must have been shared at some point, somewhere of the Azerbaijani Securities service arresting some people. So then I went on YouTube, went on Instagram, went on TikTok, and started putting search terms, you know, using Google Translate in the local language, in Azerbaijani language, looking for that video. And I found a video uploaded on the 5th of October on YouTube by the official account of the Zer by Journey State Security Service with, you know, a verified YouTube channel that that was the longer version of that video and of higher resolution.

2 (6m 32s):
So somebody had basically taken like a 32nd clip of that video, and all the captions were in there and it, it, it made it perfectly clear that it was the state security of Azerbaijan arresting carac separatist leaders. Then I searched online to see whether any Azerbaijani news sources had reported this happening on the 5th of October, and I found several. So that was it to me. Then at that point, it was clear, this video is False. It doesn't, it has got nothing to do with the conflict between Israel and Haleema. Those are not Israeli generals. This video was taken in Azerbaijan, and it's related to the dispute there between Azerbaijan and Armenia. The first instance of that video being shared was on the platform Telegram, which is a messaging gap, which is really, really popular in some parts of the world, maybe not necessarily in America.

2 (7m 18s):
So it was initially shared there wasn't very viral then some people who have big followings on platforms like, you know, Twitter or Instagram or TikTok, had basically seen that video and they posted it to their accounts, and that's how it took off and became really big.

1 (7m 36s):
That sounds like disinformation to me. That sounds deliberate to me. You said it's misinformation. What do you think?

2 (7m 42s):
I would categorize that as misinformation, because I think most of the people who shared it had no idea what it was. If I wanted to give you an example of disinformation that I've seen in the last two weeks. We saw a video shared online that it looked like it was like, it was like a minute and a half, and it looked like a BBC News video. So somebody had gone through the effort to copy our branding and style and logo in a very convincing way, and the content of the video said that BBC News was reporting that the Hamas militants who infiltrated Israel and killed Israeli citizens had got their weapons from Ukraine. Now, this wasn't something that we had reported at all.

2 (8m 22s):
This wasn't a video we'd created. It was 100% fake. Ukraine has got nothing to do with this conflict. And then lo and behold, the day after that, Dimitri met eth, the former president of, of Russia, posted online, putting out exactly that same narrative, Ooh, that Haleema militants were using the weapons given to Ukraine by Western powers. So you have to wonder why anybody would go through the effort of producing a fake BBC video to say the government of Ukraine is actually in cahoots with Haleema.

1 (8m 56s):
What tends to be the motive of people who spread miss and disinformation

2 (9m 0s):
Misinformation most of the time comes from people who are doing what, what is known as engagement farming. And on platforms like say TikTok or YouTube or Twitter, they can make significant sounds of money off of it if they get massive engagement. One of the examples I saw was on TikTok, somebody was claiming that they were running live streams of the conflict from the ground in Israel, and they had like something like two, 3 million people who were watching their live stream. The footage was actually from a military exercise from five years ago, but people were watching it and he was making money off of it. Social media platforms, the algorithms are designed to make content that is shocking. The algorithms want that type of content, want us to see that type of content.

2 (9m 42s):
That type of content goes viral regardless of whether it's true or not. So that's one incentive. But then when, with the example I just gave you, and I can give you several more. Either somebody is trying to shape the opinion of a group of people or you know, a group of nations, some politicians, some influential people about what is going on, which is politically in their favor. Or somebody has an actual economic interest mixed with politics in what's going on. And, and they're doing this because they will have something to gain from it.

1 (10m 14s):
How many people see the work that you do versus the thing that you end up debunking?

2 (10m 21s):
Look, that's the age old problem of people who work in this field, but even if you had a fact check on a piece that had 10 million views and yours got 2000, 3000, even if you managed to change one mind, one person who saw the original post sees your fact check and is convinced, okay, that was False. I don't believe it anymore. I think any fact checker, any misinformation reporter can take pleasure in that and go, okay, I did something good.

1 (10m 46s):
I hear you, I really do. I hear you making sense of this, and yet everything that you've just told me makes me a bit frightened and a bit depressed. When you think about the tide of misinformation, just this tide of Bullard crap, and you're like a lone soldier at your keyboard, how do you sort of get through the day without becoming very overwhelmed and very depressed?

2 (11m 12s):
Look, I'm, I'm, I'm an optimistic person. I still think the vast majority of people have common sense, are good people and want to get factual information. And I still think most people still believe in such a thing as a shared truth. I do. So I, I think it's just a case of, you know, us working harder, people like me working harder, spending more time, hopefully, and, and then spreading disability. This knowledge, you know, one of, one of the things that I do constantly, and I, and I take huge joy from it, is I try to, you know, on social media on say X I try to do threads like media literacy threads, and I try to tell people, see, this is the process I follow to check a video to Verify video.

2 (11m 55s):
This is the process I follow to Verify an image step by step simple. Many of the stuff that goes viral online that is False or misleading would take minutes to check sometimes seconds. Honestly. The other thing is social media is not a friend of sourcing. Always good to look for sources on social media. Always good to know, and I think most people know this, but that's the power of social media, that just because something is viral doesn't mean it's true. And then the most important thing that it's something I always say to people just to be skeptical, everything that I'm seeing I have to check for myself doesn't mean necessarily that it's true.

1 (12m 36s):
That was Cheyenne Sardarizadeh. He's a senior journalist at BBC Verify Coming up. It is not just random people spreading misinformation about this war, it is also the governments of Israel and Tomas, how they're doing it.

Mint Mobile (13m 1s):
Support for today's show comes from Mint Mobile. Mint Mobile says if you sign up for a new wireless plan just to get a new phone at a discount, and then it turned out to not be that great a deal, you might wanna check out Mint Mobile for a limited time. Wireless plans from Mint Mobile are $15 a month, and all plans come with unlimited talk and text and high-speed data delivered on the country's largest five G network. you can use your current phone with any Mint mobile plan, and you can keep your phone number and you can keep all of your existing contacts to get a new unlimited wireless plan for just $15 a month and get the plan shipped to your door for free. you can go to mint mobile.com/explained. That's mint mobile.com/explained. you can cut your wireless built $15 a month at mint mobile.com/explained.

Noom (13m 53s):
Support for today, explain comes from noom. There is a whole big weight loss industry. It can be hard to figure out what works for you. Noom wants to tell you a bit about noom. Noom uses science and personalization to try to help you manage your weight over the long term. Noom says that their psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors, and you can decide how Noom fits into your life and not the other way around. Noom offered a sample of 4,272 noms, and 98% of them said Noom helped them change their habits and behaviors for good. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Vox who works on the business side of things. She had a chance to try out Noom and tell us how it went. There were days where I was overeating based on my goal and days where I was undereating and Noom had a very clever way of also matching my mood to those days. So I could actually see after about a week that I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed, and days that I'm more relaxed, I'm eating more, and I know some people's habits are the opposite of that. You can sign up for a trial today@noom.com. That's N O O m.com to sign up for a trial.

1 (15m 0s):
Today is today explained, and I'm Noel King. We're back with Mark Owen Jones. He's a professor of Middle East studies at Hamad bin Khalifa University in Qatar, and he studied specifically digital disinformation.

8 (15m 22s):
So basically I spent a lot of time in social media trying to find bot accounts and troll accounts and people spreading fake news.

1 (15m 28s):
Mark recently wrote a book called Digital Authoritarianism in the Middle East, in which he identifies the countries in the region that he calls digital superpowers.

8 (15m 38s):
Put simply a digital superpower is a country that can use digital technology, including social media, to exert its influence on a domestic, regional, and an international level. And I would say in the Middle East more broadly, the key digital superpowers in the region are Sadi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Israel.

1 (15m 56s):
Digital superpowers, as Mark defines them, have a lot of money and high penetration rates. That means the number of people using cell phones and the internet in those countries is high. These countries, governments use digital platforms like x nay Twitter to spread propagandists and misinform. I asked Mark about the context of this war. What does it mean that Israel is a digital superpower?

8 (16m 19s):
Well, it looks similar all around the world. I think digital technology is a generally relatively harmonized in their effects. So in Israel, you'd have highly networked closed circuit television systems that have face tracking systems that allow people who might be seen as political distance to be tracked.

9 (16m 36s):
The high resolution cameras are pointed at mosques, hospitals, schools, and into people's homes.

10 (16m 42s):
You can see it in the cameras around you, the big cameras, the small cameras, the hidden cameras, the flying cameras.

8 (16m 49s):
I think crucially, what Israel are known to specialize in is their ability to use and subvert people's anonymity using spyware intrusive technological surveillance. So Israel are a big exporter of Pegasus.

11 (17m 2s):
Pegasus does not require any action by the user or a click on any suspicious links. The user receives a call from an unknown caller through the internet, and the phone gets hacked even without answering the phone call. after that, Pegasus spyware is installed on the targeted phone,

8 (17m 21s):
And once that software's installed, it can have access to your phone, microphone, to your phone camera, to your WhatsApp contacts, to anything on your phone, right? So Israel are known to specialize in this, but they're also known to specialize in techniques of astroturfing and sock puppets. So for example, Earlier this year, the Guardian and a few other organizations did an investigation. This

12 (17m 44s):
Is Tal Hannan, the mastermind behind Team Jorge, a covert unit that specializes in hacking and disinformation.

8 (17m 54s):
He created a program called aims. Now, AIMS is a program that basically gives you access to this platform of fake accounts, avatars, photos that look real, but fake accounts on LinkedIn, on Facebook, on Twitter, even on Airbnb. And the whole point of these thousands and thousands of fake accounts is to give the illusion that they're real people and engage in activities online, either to engage in propagandists or to intimidate critics.

12 (18m 18s):
Our investigation pointed to Team Jorge's work in countries all over the world,

13 (18m 24s):
33 presidential level campaigns, we have completed 27 of which were successful.

1 (18m 33s):
When might we see Israel doing this? When might we see this sort of propagandists response and how might it play out?

8 (18m 40s):
Well, there's different ways, but when there's a crisis, we always see an increase in propagandists. And this is true the world over. So for example, in the recent escalation in Gaza and in previous escalations, in Gaza, you'll see a lot of what is called quote unquote Haber. Haber is the Hebrew word to explain, but it's also come to mean in this term of public diplomacy, because when Israel, for example, bombed Gaza, this creates a public backlash where people will say, this is a violation of human rights. Basically, you have a large group of people mobilizing to criticize Israel, which means then there is a large group of people needed to counter that discourse. And so when every time you have bombing of Gaza, you'll see a massive increase in activity online where you have accounts, some are real, but many also fake.

8 (19m 26s):
Whose job it is, is essentially to increase the defense of Israel online, increase the reputational defense of Israel online, and basically create a large narrative that tries to exonerate Israel from any responsibility. So when something happens recently, the 17th of October, the Al Ali Hospital in Gaza was bombed. As soon as this happened, there was, there was different narratives. It was reported that Israel had bombed that hospital.

14 (19m 52s):
It's hard to see what else. This could be really given the size of the explosion other than an Israeli airstrike or several airstrikes.

8 (20m 2s):
However, Israel quickly denied that

15 (20m 5s):
All indications are that this was not Israeli ordinance, but this was rather hammas rocket that fell short.

8 (20m 13s):
But a number of accounts immediately started publishing accounts saying that this was actually a hammers rocket that was intercepted, and they provided videos. And most of these videos were actually either old videos, videos from a, with a different timestamp. They were fundamentally incorrect. So those narratives get put out there, and then they get inflated massively by bot accounts, bot accounts, or automated accounts that are run automatically to retweet content. Right? And so that narrative gets promoted algorithmically. And so before you know it, within about an hour of the event happening, there's a massive trend saying that actually this was, could have been a Hamas rocket. And already that's successful.

8 (20m 54s):
You've muddied the waters, right? Speed is of the essence.

16 (20m 57s):
There are photos, videos, and eyewitness accounts of the huge explosion at the Aha Arab Hospital, but there's not yet clarity on who's responsible.

8 (21m 6s):
These tactics aren't unique to necessarily Israel, but these tactics take on a life of their own in the digital world because you can put the stories out there into the information ecosystem very quickly. They proliferate and people lose track of who the source is. And once you lose track of who the source is, it becomes hard in many ways to corroborate it.

1 (21m 23s):
Let's move over to the other side of this war. Is Hamas doing the same thing with digital misinformation?

8 (21m 31s):
Yeah, I mean, so any entity now, whether a state or a terrorist organization or political group, depending on how you wanna define it, uses digital technology to get the message across. And Hamas is no different videos

17 (21m 42s):
From their tunnels are widely available on video sharing sites like YouTube, and they're active on Twitter too. They've even released guidelines on how Gazen should use Twitter to report Israeli assaults.

8 (21m 57s):
And I think we saw during their attack on the 7th of October, they were pretty diligent in documenting what they were doing, posting very highly produced videos online, documenting certain aspects of what they were doing. The thing is, if you're a small organization, like a relatively small organization, I think Haleema living in the guards, the strip, mostly living in a place where, you know, Israel controlled the electricity, the water, your land orders, you might have intentions to use digital technology in a way that you, you'd love to be on a pile with say, a digital superpower. But you can't, you physically do not have the infrastructure or the resources, right? So in order to be a digital superpower, you need to really have a sophisticated digital infrastructure, which Hamas do not have, and they certainly do not have the ability to secure their infrastructure.

8 (22m 43s):
At the same time, Hamas know that their videos, their kind of media outputs because of the Israel Palestinian conflict, the nature of it is so polarized. They know they'll also Generate a lot of support from the Middle East and from Arabic speaking legacy media. So they know that will happen. So they don't necessarily have to rely so much on their digital forms of digital technology to engage in this kind of propagandists, but of course, they do do it. They do use techniques of trolling and using fake accounts. They just cannot do it on the same scale as a country like Sadi, the UE or Israel.

1 (23m 16s):
When you think big picture about where this all leads and what this ripples out to, what is the real danger here beyond just it gives people bad information?

8 (23m 32s):
I mean, the real danger for me is that the nature of that bad information is often adversarial. The information often is designed to sensationalized so that it turns people against one another. It promotes tribalism and polarization. And we see this happening. This is happening now in Israel and Palestine. I think that this information and the propagandists is fueling a polarization that is accepted to conflicts and making people less likely to want to reconcile. And you know, you don't just see it in Israel Palestine, you see it in the us now you know about the right versus the left or the far right and the left everywhere. Information is being weaponized in such a way that I think it threatens the communality we have between people and the good faith that we have people and the willingness to listen and actually have rational critical discussions with other people.

1 (24m 34s):
That was Mark Owen Jones. He researches disinformation and digital media at Hamad bin Khalifa University in Qatar. A note about facts. You heard our BBC guest, Cheyenne say that Hamas killed between 1200 and 1300 Israelis in that attack earlier this month. Now, since we interviewed Cheyenne, that number is now higher. The death toll is at more than 1400. Today's episode was produced by Amanda Lewellyn and Isha Artsy. It was edited by Amman, Sade, in fact, checked by Laura Bullard and Halima Shaw. Patrick Boyd is our engineer. I'm Noel King, and this is today explained.