0 (0s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. About 11 weeks ago. A strange thing started happening in Southwestern China. It's summer heat is normal, so the temperature went up up some more, more,

1 (13s):
The nights are hot. The days are hotter and people are sweating through their shirts when they go outside and there's just no relief.

0 (21s):
It didn't stop a hundred degrees, a hundred to a hundred for a construction worker drop dead. And when they took his temperature, it was 109.4 degrees. China youth daily reported 110 degrees, 113. The thing was people kept going to work and going about their lives. The heat was an annoyance in the U S the deadliest weather phenomenon is heat, but we kind of treat it like an annoyance to coming up. Heat waves have been faking us out a plan to make us realize they're dangerous.

Citi (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them. The world needs to take action that together cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, health care, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G.

Paycor (1m 43s):
This episode is brought to you by Paycor, the HR and payroll software made for leaders. It's never been harder to recruit, hire, and engage workers. That's why HR leaders and frontline managers depend on Paycor for all things. People management from onboarding and performance reviews to compensation and benefits. Learn more at paycor.com/leaders.

0 (2m 9s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king Shaw squad reporter with the wall street journal. You've been covering two record-breaking events in China. There's the heat wave. And there's the drought. Tell me first what the drought's been like.

1 (2m 22s):
Rivers have run dry or they're at a very low level, which means that a lot of vessels can't actually ship along the river

4 (2m 32s):
Record heat wave and drought and China are drying out the Yangtze river. The longest in Asia, the rivers, a crucial source of water for nearly 400 million people and is vital to China's economy.

5 (2m 43s):
The water level in some places along the river is more than five meters of below normal. And of course, a low water level in the river leaves the goods that move along it high and dry. In one year, the river is used to transport more than 1 billion, tons of cargo

6 (2m 57s):
And drought in China has revealed ancient statues of Buddha on an island. That's usually submerged. The statues are believed to be 600 years old.

1 (3m 7s):
You know, farms have no water to irrigate their fields.

7 (3m 12s):
4.5 million people are short of drinking, water,

1 (3m 16s):
Water reservoirs, the places where you store water, especially along the dance near that water level, which is basically the level of water at which you can still use the water to generate electricity.

7 (3m 30s):
Hydroelectric power stations in these areas have halted operations to provide water for farmers and households.

0 (3m 43s):
Now tell me about the heat wave.

1 (3m 45s):
The heatwave has been going on for a long time, actually. So it started in June and Chinese stayed media quotes it the longest heat wave in recorded history. So about 70 days of extreme temperatures, upward of a hundred degrees Fahrenheit,

8 (4m 3s):
Scorching temperatures melted the roof of a museum in central China,

9 (4m 7s):
Been an increasing number of reports of COVID workers, collapsing and fainting on the job due to heat stroke. This is the kind of weather that is suffocating, even in a t-shirt and jeans. Now imagine wearing a full body hazmat suit

1 (4m 20s):
In different places. It looks differently, obviously in the cities, you basically have people sweating through their shirts. And in the countryside, you have fields where all the crops have wilted.

10 (4m 35s):
If China can't rescue it's autumn harvest and has to buy more food from overseas. This could have an effect on global suppliers.

1 (4m 43s):
A lot of the poetry, the livestock is not really taking well to heat. And I think some livestock has also died of heat.

0 (4m 50s):
Tell me a bit about how ordinary people are experiencing this heat wave.

1 (4m 55s):
So the area that has been impacted by the heat wave is huge. The places that have been impacted by the drought about six provincial level jurisdictions. And I just looked up their population number, and it's about the population of the United States. And obviously, depending on whether you're rich or whether you're poor, you must probably experience it differently, whether you're in the city or in the countryside, if you're in the city and you're middle class, you must probably have access to air conditioning. It's not so great. If you have to step outside to take a PCR test, but otherwise you're sitting at the splendor of air conditioning.

1 (5m 38s):
If you're on the countryside, air conditioning might be less prevalent and you may have a fan. I saw a girl being interviewed by Chinese state television, and she was asked how the heat wave felt like for her. And she said pointing at the fan, that was blasting at her that even that air felt hot to her. Now, I should also say about some of the areas that have been affected by the heat wave, that they are actually quite accustomed to hot temperatures. So turn and chanting. And one, for example, all of these places are known as furnaces in the summer.

1 (6m 19s):
So heat as such is not so uncommon, what was truly outstanding for everyone was just that it lasted for such a long time.

0 (6m 32s):
Tell me about a bit about Sichuan, which you said is used to heat, where in the country is Sichuan and what kind of province is it? What what's the economy based around?

1 (6m 45s):
So Sutton is in Southwestern China, and it has about 84 million inhabitants. And that's where a lot of the mountains are from which the river spring forth. It's a very, very lush province. And it's also home to the giant Panda, which it prides itself with. And it has a lot of water. So it produces so much hydro-power that it can actually export power to other provinces in China, since on itself, realize 80% on hydro-power, which is a huge number during this heat wave and drought. We've also learned how much you can be susceptible to extreme weather events when you rely on something like hydro-power, because once you have a drought, you basically don't have the thing that gives you electricity.

1 (7m 38s):
And when there's a heat wave, what you want is electricity because you're turning to your air conditioners. And that tends to drive up electricity demand. We looked at the numbers and in July, when the heat wave was already ongoing, residential electricity demand increased by 45%. That's huge.

0 (8m 0s):
How did the Chinese government respond to both the heat and the drought?

1 (8m 5s):
So in the short term, they had the fire brigade deliver water to a lot of the places that lacked water in the countryside

9 (8m 15s):
Broadcasting agency there says a three-month long cloud seeding project is underway. And the Southern Hubei province, they released footage of meteorology workers, firing rockets, carrying what it said was the chemical silver iodide into the sky, which they hope will create rainfall.

1 (8m 31s):
They did something which in China is actually quite common, which is to cut power use. So what they do is they send out notices usually to industrial users like factories and tell them to maybe cut production, maybe use it during off peak hours when other people aren't using the electricity or to say, Hey, you know, maybe stop production completely because we need all the electricity to power, the air conditioning, to keep people cool at home. And I think this is how you saw all these pictures of, for example, Shanghai turning off the lights along the Bund, which is it's famous promenade, where you see all the high rises

11 (9m 14s):
And the city of Chung do the subway system. There is running on low power mode and there are these photos going viral on Chinese social media, showing people boarding a subway in the dark.

0 (9m 25s):
Does China have policies to deal with heat in the future?

1 (9m 30s):
I mean, the unfortunate thing is that if you get a heat wave or a drought in a way it's a natural disaster, and there's only so much you can do, you can try to mitigate the impact, but there are things that you can maybe do in the long-term. And I think China's government has realized that climate change is real and that they need to address it. And this is why they're also trying to build out renewables at a record pace. I mean, they're these huge soda farms and wind farms in the west of China, they are trying to build a lot of loot nuclear power plants, and they are trying to switch a lot of things from coal to gas to cut emissions.

1 (10m 11s):
But China is a huge manufacturing hub and it's a huge industrial nation. And the industrial sector just needs a lot of energy. And the truth is renewables. Aren't there yet. One of the things that a lot of climate experts will say is that China is an authoritarian state, but because of there's an authoritarian state, it can just make decisions and then pursue them. And it doesn't always have to take into account every group's interests and have this democratic process involved. So it can act quite decisively and quite quickly. And this is part of the reason why it's been able to roll out all these huge renewable projects and build a lot of nuclear plants, which is just not so easy in a lot of Western democracies, liberal democracies.

1 (11m 1s):
I guess

0 (11m 2s):
I understand that in the last 48 hours or so, things have started to get better. The temperatures in some of these hard hit areas are a bit cooler. What's going on in terms of relief.

1 (11m 16s):
The rain that everyone's been waiting for has finally come down and it's actually come down in some areas with such Gusto, I guess that some people that had to be evacuated because the rain was so torrential, but generally I think it's a good thing that rain has come down and now the hydroponic plants are working again and electricity is restored. And a lot of the factories can produce again, has

0 (11m 47s):
The heat wave also started to lift?

1 (11m 49s):
Yes. So actually my father lives in trenching and he just told me that he's been able to step outside again. After entering the splendor of air conditioning for many, many days,

DirecTV (12m 8s):
This episode is brought to you by DirecTV stream. Direct TV stream brings you the live TV you love. That means you can stay up to the minute on 24 hour live news from entertainment to current events, wherever you are in the U S whether that's at home on your TV or streaming on the go and you get your favorite live sports. So you can catch this season's biggest games. Get the best of live TV with direct TV stream. Get your TV together@directv.com.

Samsung Galaxy Z fold (12m 36s):
This episode is brought to you by Samsung unfold, the all new galaxy Z fold for and expand your world with flex mode. It stands on its own. So your hands free to get more done during calls and with multi window view, you can use up to three apps at the same time. Plus the edge to edge screen allows you to fully immerse yourself in your favorite games and shows. Visit samsung.com to learn more about galaxy Z. Fold for

13 (13m 7s):
Another guy just collapsed out there. Oh, but the good Samaritan to the rescue. Oh, damn good. Samaritan just collapsed. Oh. And ups guy to the rescue and the ups guy just collapsed ladies stealing packages. Oh. And the lady just to labs

0 (13m 33s):
It's today explained we're back with Neil Doneisha he's boxes, science and Recode fellow. And he's been looking into why it's so hard to talk about heat with any sense of real immediacy, despite the fact that it is a big problem.

14 (13m 47s):
He is the deadliest weather phenomenon in the United States. It surpasses things that you might think of as more deadly, like floods and lightning and tornadoes and hurricanes by a pretty significant amount. And if you look around the world, we've seen pretty devastating impacts this year alone.

15 (14m 4s):
That's if heat warning is in effect in Seattle, Washington, we're just 44% of residents have air conditioning.

16 (14m 11s):
Heat waves sparked by climate change is causing death and destruction across Europe,

17 (14m 15s):
Power outages and India and Pakistan have made it even harder to cope with record shattering.

14 (14m 20s):
The Chinese heat wave is the third heat wave this year where nearly a billion people are being essentially cooked at one time. And when you put them all together, we're just seeing heat wave after heat wave, after heat wave coming and hitting everyone.

0 (14m 33s):
What makes heat waves so different and dangerous than other extreme weather events?

14 (14m 40s):
I think the two big things about heat that I keep thinking about are that it's, it's invisible and it's subjective. Heat waves are different because like, you know, you're surprised because heatwaves don't have like catastrophic winds ripping roofs of houses, or, you know, rainstorms bringing floods. It's this thing that we like, you know, we feel it on our skin. We feel it in our bodies. We might see it shimmering in the air, but it doesn't have the sort of like, you know, apocalyptic impact on our cities and on our homes. And that means that we can take it less seriously.

0 (15m 14s):
How exactly does heat hurt people? What is, what is the scientific process by which heat kills me not to be grim?

14 (15m 22s):
Well, that depends on how many, how many gross details you want.

0 (15m 26s):
I want all of them,

14 (15m 28s):
It's pretty gnarly. The sweat is, is your body's primary mechanism for regulating temperature, right? And so the first thing that happens when, when things get hot is that you sweat. I think we all know this. And when it gets especially hot and you start sweating too much, and that means that your body starts to lose all the water and the salt that you know, that you need to stay alive. And if it gets especially bad, you start experiencing heatstroke, which is when your sweat mechanism just shuts down because it can't regulate your temperature well enough. And so your skin turns red and dry and your internal temperature rises extremely quickly. It can go above 103 degrees Fahrenheit in like 10 to 15 minutes. Once your sweat mechanism breaks down, then your heart starts to beat faster and you develop a headache and nausea and dizziness and confusion.

14 (16m 12s):
And eventually you pass out. And this is what you see when people get heatstroke. But you also see with heat exhaustion and you see it faster with people who are older or who had like these preexisting medical conditions, it's a painful process. You know, like it's, it's something that really brings you down to like a level where you feel pretty helpless.

0 (16m 34s):
I know that you've been looking at areas around the country that are unused to heat. In addition to ones that are used to heat. Can you tell me some of what you found in your reporting that surprised you or that sticking with you?

14 (16m 47s):
Yeah. One thing that really sticks with me is that people who aren't used to heat, they do things that they think would help them cool down, but actually ends up dangerous. And every year in the Pacific Northwest, when my sources told me that a handful of people will go out into the lakes, they'll take a boat out into the lake and jump in the lake, thinking it will cool them down, but the lake is so cold that it sends their body into shock. And if these people jump in without life jackets, they start gulping and water and they drown and they essentially die of the cold in the middle of a heat wave. And it just, this sort of like terrifying idea and inmate, you know, it's, it's especially terrifying. Cause it makes total sense that they would do that. You know, if it's hot, go find some cold water.

0 (17m 28s):
Meteorology tries its best to keep us like apprised of what's going on. There are ways in which the meteorologist on my TV or radio talks about heat waves. Your reporting seems to suggest it's not going far enough. What doesn't the nightly news or the morning news tell us that we should know.

14 (17m 47s):
Yeah. I mean, I think that a lot of what the news focuses on is the temperature, right? We have this, this number that we all kind of understand. And when the number is high, it's hot when the number's low it's cold. I think that there's just such a focus on this one, metric, the temperature that we lose, these nuances of all the different ways that he can affect us.

0 (18m 6s):
You've been reporting on some groups. Who've been thinking about how to communicate the dangers of heat waves more effectively, who is doing what who's interesting.

14 (18m 16s):
Yeah. So there's this one group I talked to, it's a nonprofit called the Adrian <inaudible> foundation resilience center or awestruck struck, which studies climate resiliency. They're a nonprofit affiliated with a think tank in DC called the Atlanta council. And they've been working on the system that would sort of treat heat waves like hurricanes

18 (18m 36s):
It's virtually invisible and silent. It doesn't have a brand, it doesn't have a name. So it needs PR. And so we believe that naming and categorizing heat waves is the best way to quickly get people on top of how deadly this is.

14 (18m 51s):
It's been a very effective tool for hurricanes. We know when a hurricane is coming and we call it by its name, you know, like many talk about historic hurricanes. We can just rattle them off our tongues. Like people you might know, you know, Katrina or Maria or Sandy, which was a superstar mint. I mean, he say them, we, you know, their impacts are immediately known to us. And so the idea is that if you do the same thing for heat waves, you might be able to, you know, better tease apart the differences in these heat waves and really come to terms with how they affect us.

0 (19m 19s):
How would meteorologists go about categorizing heat waves? Would it be by temperature?

14 (19m 24s):
It's very tricky. So they're making a system that's very localized for, you know, specific cities and towns. And what they do is they look at past heat waves and they see how they've affected the cities and towns over 25 years and which ones have caused the most deaths. And they see, they look at the combination of, of weather conditions like heat and humidity and wind speed and cloud cover, feed all this data into an algorithm, which then tells them how deadly a future heat wave will be. So if a heat wave rolls in and it matches all the characteristics of a heat wave, that was super devastating, you know, 25 years ago, they'll go, oh, this is going to be a really deadly heat wave.

14 (20m 6s):
Let's give it a category three,

19 (20m 8s):
Consider this. When there is a category four hurricane, we don't expect a pizza delivery person to bring a pizza to your house, nor do you expect like people to keep working in a construction site. However, we don't have such considerations or policies really in relation to a category for heat waves, because there is no category for heat wave who don't have metrics. And we don't have categories.

14 (20m 32s):
Hurricane categories are based on exactly one thing and that's wind speed and hurricanes are so much more than just fast wins, but that is what determines the category. The arch rack system is different because it takes mortality data. It takes health data and marries it to weather data and creates this category. That's like, Hey, this weather will cause this health impact. And that makes people uncomfortable. Meteorologists are like, we're not health officers. You know, we're not people who have, who give health recommendations. We tell you about the weather and then you do what you want with it.

0 (21m 8s):
Neil, these groups that are interested in changing the manner in which we designate heat waves, giving them names, have they tried them out in the real world or is this all scientists sitting around in the lab discussing?

14 (21m 21s):
They have tried them out in the real world this year. So they're running pilot projects in six cities, Los Angeles, Miami, Milwaukee, and Kansas city in the United States. The two in Europe are several Spain and Athens Greece. And in both those cities, they're launching these, you know, these initiatives to give heat waves, names and categories, and sort of see how the people respond to them.

18 (21m 42s):
Five names have been identified based on the expected number of extreme heat waves.

14 (21m 48s):
Seville was the first city in the world to ever give a heatwave a name. And that was heat waves, Zoe, which had this past summer.

18 (21m 54s):
These names might be names that civilians will remember forever. The names are Zoe Jago Xenia when Lau and Vega.

0 (22m 9s):
And tell me how the experiment in categorizing and naming. When did people behave themselves? Do they behave differently?

14 (22m 16s):
We don't quite know yet. You know, the, the names and categories caught a lot of attention. They got a lot of media attention and social media attention, but you know, they're still collecting the data to see how it played out in the real world and how people responded to those categories. These categories came with all kinds of recommendations for what people should do. The question is if they did that or not.

0 (22m 37s):
So may have worked, may not have worked either way. Sounds kind of cool. We're taking things seriously that deserves to be taken seriously. Do you have a sense of when we might see widespread adoption?

14 (22m 51s):
I do not. And that's partly because it's not being accepted by the institutions that govern whether for us around the world, the world meteorological organization, or the WMO, which is the UN agency that sort of coordinates weather data and planning around the world. It's it really is a statement in July that seemed kind of targeted about these efforts, saying that they had no plans to name and categorize heat waves. They don't think that, you know, it's a good idea.

20 (23m 19s):
If we get into this issue of naming and then there's a different name, it's Tom in Montreal and Alice and, and Toronto and people are traveling. It's it's. We think that the communication there would be a detriment to civil production.

14 (23m 35s):
And there's also, there's a lot of institutional pushback because there are other tools that other agencies, you know, like the WMO had been to use. And so there's this fear among these institutions that, you know, the, our struck initiative could undermine these efforts by local meteorological agencies and organizations to talk about heat in, in different ways or to raise awareness of heat.

0 (24m 0s):
And for the scientists who make the argument, no, we should actually be doing this. Even if it means getting into drama with the, with the WMO, what what's the argument that they're making?

14 (24m 14s):
Yeah. So to be clear, they, they would like the WMO to adopt their idea. You know, they would like this to be something that these organizations are like, oh, this is great. We'll do it. And then they can just run with it. If the WMO doesn't adopt these ideas, they're just like, well, we think it's a good idea. And we'll continue to work with whoever wants to use our idea, which is kind of getting exactly at the fears that these people at the WMO and other immunologists have, you know, this idea that like, if you have competing systems, you know, we currently have a very unified sort of agreed upon non politicized approach to the weather. And if this does happen, if there's this sort of fragmentation of some people who are using the awestruck model and some people are using the Dell Emo's approaches, that could be kind of confusing for people

0 (25m 10s):
Today's episode was produced by Amanda Llewellyn and edited by Matthew Colette. It was fact-checked by Laura Bullard and it was engineered by Paul Robert mousey I'm Noel king it's today explained

21 (25m 24s):
Usually

KiwiCo (25m 41s):
Looking for a great hands-on gift for the curious kids in your life, that tinker who can't stop exploring building and taking things apart, Kiwi COEs delivers super cool science technology and art projects for kids of all ages straight to your door every month, choose from nine different subscription lines, focused on subjects like engineering, art, and design science of cooking, and more, every crate delivered has everything you need to complete the project in there. Seriously fun. Get 50% off your first month on any subscription line at QE code.com/vox, 50 that's QE code.com/v O X five zero.