1 (0s):
Rise.com it's the all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage rise looks great. It's interactive. It's easy to use and most importantly it's secure with rise. You can create training from scratch or customized hundreds of pre-built lessons templates and Sample courses to build training even faster, see why you'll love Rise by starting a free 30-day trial at rise.com today. Across the u.s. Police response to recent protests as looked a lot like a military operation officers are showing up in full riot gear and they've got Arsenal's of rubber bullets and mine-resistant tanks and soldiers were actually standing alongside police officers when protesters were tear gas in Washington.

1 (57s):
See for a trump photo op on June 1st for General Mark. Milley the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that moment led to a reckoning I should not have been there my presence in that moment. And in that environment created a perception of the military involved in domestic politics, but it's not just a perception that the military is involved in domestic politics police have been using military equipment for decades more on that in a bit. But first we're going to stay with the immediate aftermath of the tear-gassing and the photo up. The military didn't just stand on the sidelines. They flew military helicopters above the protesters tracking their movements and even flying low to the ground to force protesters to disperse.

1 (1m 37s):
Alex Horton has spent the last few weeks reconstructing the paths of the helicopters for the Washington Post says spoke to two protesters their roommates. My name is Camellia Magnus. My name is Julia - from Rosa. So right after the tear-gassing there is still a very tense situation on DC streets all the Is were pushed back from Lafayette Square? We wanted to protest we wanted to

2 (2m 1s):
have our voices heard. And so we wanted to keep moving the entire intention of the night was to have no confrontation with the police. Well all throughout the day there were several military helicopters

1 (2m 14s):
from the DC Army National Guard that were flying high above the city, you know seemingly to Shadow the protesters everywhere they

2 (2m 22s):
went so when the one of the main groups Moved from Lafayette Square. They sort of swung Northeast towards you Street coming down towards Logan Circle. The helicopters. Were there wine real low gear Army Shopper, particularly Army Black Hawk helicopter and army Lakota helicopter. So throughout the night. The helicopters used a

1 (2m 49s):
spotlight presumably to

2 (2m 51s):
give updates to other law enforcement about the composition of the crowds their size where Seemed to be headed then a Curious Thing Happened close to about 10 p.m. I think at this point like one flashbang went off. We don't even know what was happening. Just one one of the helicopters a Blackhawk descended and started pounding the protesters with rubber wash which is the downward force of the air coming down from the propellers for about a minute and a half. How many minutes it got very close to us? There was wind blowing everywhere. There was dirt getting into our eyes like our masks were kind of opening up and dirt ones getting into our mouths and then chameleon luckily reminded me that I had goggles on top of my head and to put my goggles on because it's old time.

2 (3m 37s):
I was just getting dirt straight into my eyes and the Black Hawk is is a pretty large helicopter. It's that's used for transport. It's a utility for you can use it for a Medevac you can use it to move troops around the battlefield. It's essentially Flying school bus it went low and slow around the National Portrait Gallery for a few minutes enough to sever a pretty thick branch one of the trees there and there was debris like sticks and leaves and glass that has been smashed from Windows of cars start flying around the are sort of like shrapnel.

2 (4m 21s):
Out of the way, and I was like use your like we had are protesting size as it gives your sign and we like held it over ice and tried to like duck down. So it was down for several minutes people were running away people felt that the helicopter was going to land and push soldiers out and you know move the crowd to the police who are starting to encircle them. We had hair plugs in we had mask then and I'm trying to communicate to Camellia that I think this is a trap then the hell After ascended and people started to cheer and that's when the second show of force by the helicopters began. An another helicopter showed up Lakota, which is smaller, but it still has a pretty good force of its rotor wash and that flew as low as 45 feet off the ground.

1 (5m 11s):
And what if that like when a helicopter like that size would that power is 45 feet off the ground. So everyone is spoke to described it as deafening as sort of an overpowering of your senses. Well my primary thought probably was just what the fuck is going on. And then it was like when the fuck is this going to stop? You know, you can't you can't hear anything. So if someone's telling you to run away or move over there. You can't hear them and you know many people are wearing masks because the coronavirus so you couldn't read lips either pure and endeavoring protester. You might have had goggles or anything. But if you didn't have goggles than the debris and sand and dust was hitting you in the eyes you feel it stinging your skin.

1 (5m 57s):
I was just kind of like, oh my gosh, I'm gonna have so many like little like scratches and stuff tomorrow. It's a good thing. We weren't wearing skirts because if we were that would have been very upset. Uncomfortable. I took these these elevations in these helicopters to aerospace engineers at Texas A&M University and and their estimates of the the wind speed of the rotor wash where the equivalent of a tropical storm. So this is clearly not peaceful crowd control. Right? Right. They had ever seen anything quite like this before, you know, when they saw that Blackhawk descend. So once they realized there was this police tactic to follow them along the Route and block.

1 (6m 38s):
Certain sections. They figured this was some sort of initiation for a final assault and arrest that was their initial fear and we

2 (6m 47s):
definitely an intimidation

1 (6m 49s):
and terrorizing tactic and as you can imagine, you know watching this helicopter come down, you know, you might feel like you're in an action movie, you know, the police sirens all around can't hear anything. You can't see anything. The only thing you want to do is get away from the salad copter, you know, it creates a very chaotic and surreal

3 (7m 10s):
atmosphere

1 (7m 14s):
How rare is it for military-style helicopter to be used against civilian protests in America. I mean, I would say it's unprecedented in combat, you know, you're talking about the escalation of force, you would use this as the beginning of of ADI escalation strategy, but the way they were used this was an escalation of force. You know, they went from marching in the streets and please following them to low hovering helicopters that were, you know, setting debris spiraling across streets. So instead of a d escalation this was an escalation do we know who ordered the helicopters to participate in crowd control to fly low to try to scare protesters are mr.

1 (7m 57s):
Terry Ryan McCarthy told reporters that he had authorized the use of helicopters, but he didn't go into detail about what those hot guys Supposed to do there is some Pentagon assertions that they were there in an observation role but multiple helicopter Pilots that I spoke to told me that they're flying too low for observation surveillance to be effective. You know One Pilot. I spoke to who flew both of these helicopters in combat and also in Medevac in the in the u.s. Told me that they could be as low as 200 feet and still be able to observe. Pretty well anything below a hundred feet because the dangerous maneuver so they described it as unnecessarily low for the mission.

1 (8m 45s):
They said they were doing which led many to believe including senator Tammy Duckworth who flew Blackhawks human rights groups and and military law experts to say this was a glare show of force meant to deter and scare protesters. This is wrong. This is a perversion of what our United States military. Stands for it is a political and it needs to remain that way. You know, Alex you're not just someone who covers the military. You're an Iraq war veteran what went through your head when you were reconstructing how these military helicopters were used on civilians, you know, you expect things in war to stay in war and things and pieces stay here.

1 (9m 28s):
And you know, I'll tell you the story of the first and you know, probably the only time I was involved in a show of force was an ambush on her. I was an Army infantryman I served in Iraq in the first day of being in a new city. My platoon was was in a convoy and one of our vehicles hit a deep buried IED that essentially turning Into ton vehicle on its side kill the driver and that initiated a pretty brutal counter-attack with RPGs and machine gun fire. And there were fighter jets in the area and one of them was carrying bombs, but once we told them we didn't know where the enemy was and they were so close that you know, it would endanger us if they Dropped a Bomb It decided to do is called a show of force the pilot flew perhaps a hundred feet off the ground low enough for us sitting on rooftops to see his helmet and it was the loudest thing I've ever heard.

1 (10m 35s):
Probably will ever hear even at a hundred feet that jet just it turns your whole body into a sensory organ like it's so loud and you can feel it in your guts. It almost makes you you want anything. There's nothing more that you want for that to be over and it's only a few seconds long. We weren't even the enemy it was on our side and I still felt that way. I walked away from that with a sort of appreciation and also a little bit of a Fright with the way these machines can be used.

1 (11m 16s):
You know, they're not just used to drop bombs and shoot guns. They're you know, they're as an act of aggression just with a presence, you know, and that's what that jet did and that's what these helicopters did. Up next how police started to look a lot like the

2 (11m 37s):
military. I'm no on hassenfeld filling in for Sean Rama's Forum. This is today

1 (11m 41s):
explained. Okay, so you need to train up some new hires, but your office is closed and you're all working remote and you're up against the tight deadline rise.com has got you covered rise is an all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage with rise. Anyone can easily create guides courses and other training content. You can start from scratch or customized hundreds of pre-built lessons helpful course templates and gorgeous sample courses to build.

1 (12m 23s):
Content even faster. Your learner's will love rise because rise courses are beautiful interactive and engaging your managers will love rise because rise makes it fast and easy to create distribute and analyze online training and your it department will love rise because it has everything your team needs to manage online training in one secure Enterprise class system, see why you'll love Rise by starting a free 30-day trial at rise.com today. That's rise.com. today Kara Swisher here twice a week.i Cohoes pivot podcast with my clothes Frenemy New York University Professor Scott Galloway, we break down the biggest stories in business and Tech but it is not business as usual these days.

1 (13m 11s):
That's why we're hosting schooled a weekly five-part live event Series this summer will unpack how covid-19 is changing the global economy and the real impact. It will have on Tech media and commerce and Scott. Unfortunately, we'll have to be there who unpacks better than the dog who

2 (13m 28s):
His his

1 (13m 29s):
four digit pause and unpacks better than the dog ever. Come on everybody. Who does it everybody each week we're going to have you join us by video will analyze a key sector of the economy have interactive discussions and interview a business heavyweight and people holding them accountable whether you're an investor executive or entrepreneurial just love me and Scott mostly me and you'll graduate from pivot schools smarter than before you have to pay. The owner is the amount of money you have to pay which I'm going to pay next year to have Scott as a professor. So get schooled this

2 (13m 59s):
August and in your check now, everything's going back to normal. Nothing. We're going to be normal and then we'll money you're talking

1 (14m 5s):
about himself get school. This all gets go to Pivot school.com for tickets. That's pivot school.com Madeline Marshall Vox why I have America's Police started to look more and more like soldiers. I think it's more that we've just kind of started noticing but this has kind of been a slow creep since the early 80s and now it's kind of this full-blown expectation that police have on terms of how they should look and how they should be

3 (14m 33s):
equipped.

1 (14m 36s):
What was happening back in the 80s that kick this off. So President Reagan really wanted to get aggressive. Of with the war on drugs and he's the one who kind of kicked off this culture in this idea of police and military working together.

2 (14m 48s):
We have increased seizures of illegal drugs shortages of marijuana are now being reported last year alone over 10,000 drug criminals were convicted and nearly 250 million dollars of their assets were seized by the DEA The Drug Enforcement Administration.

1 (15m 8s):
He signed laws that had them work and train together for police to be able to

2 (15m 11s):
Is military bases

1 (15m 13s):
for the National Guard to work with police on drug enforcement operations, and eventually it led to a 1990 bill which we now know as the 1033 program and it was for police departments who are specifically going to use the free military equipment for drug enforcement operations, but in 1997, it was expanded so that pretty much any Police Department even really small University Police can apply for this

2 (15m 36s):
what we have is what was originally designed manufactured as a mine-resistant ambush-protected. The vehicle that's mrap for sure. And the hope is UT system police will never have to use

1 (15m 47s):
it. This military equipment is anything from you know assault rifles to mine-resistant vehicles to just basic office supplies, even robots

2 (15m 57s):
in 2014. Our investigation found the Tennessee Highway Patrol obtained a hundred thirty-five bayonets from the Surplus program.

1 (16m 5s):
We found that other departments across the state obtain thousands of pieces of military equipment items like in vehicles night vision goggles helicopters and guns Okay, so the 1033 program eventually allowed police to get lots of military-style equipment. But why was there so much of it just lying around? Well, that's a good question about military spending. But at first that, you know kind of little things but especially after we withdrew from Iraq in 2011, they had just a huge surplus of equipment and one less for to use it on. So from 2011 to 2014. We just saw a huge spike in military equipment that was given out to mostly small and Medium sized police departments even like University Police.

1 (16m 50s):
I remember looking at pictures of the Ferguson protests in 2014 after the killing of Michael Brown and seeing just armored tanks and military equipment and snipers and just being shocked that this kind of stuff was in a civilian neighborhood. But I guess that was more normal than I thought it was it depends on where you live depending on how you've seen it. So they've been using that equipment since the early 80s for no drug raids and SWAT operations, but we never really seen it used to against peaceful protesters. I was actually in Ferguson and that was my big the scariest thing for me was there's peaceful protesters and suddenly this like armored truck shows up in people are pointing sniper rifles at you and it's like where did this military equipment come from?

1 (17m 31s):
And it raised a lot of

2 (17m 32s):
questions men in Kevlar vests and helmets camouflage carrying automatic rifles moving in

1 (17m 38s):
tactical armored vehicles.

2 (17m 40s):
These aren't American troops on the battlefield, but police in

1 (17m 43s):
Ferguson at that time enough people were mad about it that Obama put in an Order to kind of curb the program and put on restrictions like what kind of gear they were able to get they would have to get training for the first time on it. They'd have to keep detailed records on it for the first

2 (17m 57s):
time. We've seen how militarized gear can sometimes give people a feeling like there's an occupying Force as opposed to a force that's part of the community that's protecting them and serving them. Can alienate and intimidate local residents and send the wrong message

1 (18m 14s):
plate? Actually, none of the equipment we saw being used in Ferguson was from the 1033 program. All of that equipment were things that Ferguson or st. Louis whoever was there had bought themselves or gotten through grants from the Department of Homeland Security did the Obama restrictions last know so Trump reverse it as soon as he took

2 (18m 33s):
office, he is resending restrictions from the prior Administration that limited your agency's ability to get a Matt through Federal programs including life-saving gear and honestly all the people I spoke to you on the experts say that that wasn't

1 (18m 48s):
that big of a deal because at this point, you know, that's really just stopping these bigger equipment to going to smaller, you know, police stations that may not need it but places like st. Louis or Ferguson that bought this gear already have this gear and they don't need the 1033 program. The 1033 program might have kind of kicked off this militarization of police, but it's certainly not the reason police are going to You to be militarized or why they have the equipment that they do today. So we've had almost three decades of this police military collaboration under the 1033 program. What impact has this hat on how police see their role or how they do their job. I mean, of course if you arm someone like a soldier and you train them like a soldier and you dress them like a soldier they're going to act more like a soldier and I spoke with experts who have done polling on this and they've shown that police that wear this they don't have a problem wearing militarized equipment, but they do think it makes the Public not trust them and be a little more scared of them and they think it might make them more aggressive.

1 (19m 46s):
It's really just change kind of this military mindset and at this point the military's culture is just so ingrained with police that the equipment is just kind of a layer on top of that. This is an isolated to one type of Department with one type of equipment. You know, this is a u.s. Police problem. Is there any argument in defense for the use of this equipment? Has there been a reduction in crime when police use Military equipment there's definitely an argument that police have been able to use this equipment like a great example is the Pulse Nightclub shooting in 2016 in Orlando where Orlando Police were able to use an armored truck. They bought themselves, but studies that have looked at this have not found a reduction in police officer safety or in rates of violent crime because of this equipment and do you think seeing such a problem like that on such a broad scale on videos that are impossible to ignore?

1 (20m 38s):
I mean do you think this is something that could shift the Nation ship between the police and the military I don't see how it wouldn't. The Trump Administration certainly isn't going to change anything about the 1033 program and is one expert I talked to said changing. The 1033 program is literally the least you could do right now because it's so ingrained in the culture but there are definitely steps that can be taken part of it is the defunding of the police. So how much money should they be spending on this type of equipment but also, you know, there are Department of Homeland Security grants for this kind of equipment. And so getting rid of those grants or at least having them have a higher bar of who can actually get this equipment. Police hope to have come to expect this in such a way that they don't even have to go through training.

1 (21m 21s):
They don't have to have a really a good reason. It's really just if you want it and you can get it you can have it and I think even just putting restrictions on that would have an effect. It's just going to take the political will Madeline Marshall is a video producer at vaux. She recently made a great video called why America's Police look like soldiers you can find it at youtube.com

3 (21m 48s):
Vox.