0 (0s):
That's why I'm running for reelection.

1 (2s):
He's running again.

0 (4s):
When I ran for president four years ago, I said, we're in a battle for the soul of America and we still are.

1 (10s):
He dropped a heavily produced video today to prove it.

0 (14s):
The question we're facing is whether in the years ahead we have more freedom or less freedom. More rights are fewer. I know what I want the answer to be, and I think you do too. This is not a time to be complacent,

1 (29s):
But he's already the oldest president in the history of the United States, and if he wins, he'll be 86 years old by the end of his second term. Most Americans do not want Joe Biden to run for office again, but he's doing it anyway. Coming up on today, explained why he doesn't have any real competition from his fellow democrats.

3 (59s):
Support for this podcast comes from.com sax.com. Editors are always tracking the top styles that are trending right now. Tailored blazers and mid dresses are selling fast@sax.com, especially from brands like Veronica Beard and the row and sax.com, editors are seeing Leves oversized tote on the streets of New York, Milan and Paris. If you want your own free personalized trend recommendations sax.com, stylists can do that ands more. Plus there's free shipping and returns all the time@sax.com.

1 (1m 39s):
Andrew Procop Vox, it is official. Joe Biden is running to be the even older oldest president of the United States ever. Is anyone surprised?

4 (1m 50s):
I don't think anyone is surprised necessarily. He's certainly been signaling that he would likely run again for some time.

5 (1m 59s):
No, an answer is yes. My plan is to run for reelection. That's my expectation. Our intention is to run again. That's been our intention. Well, you gonna run again, sir?

6 (2m 8s):
I mean, how many times does he have to say until you believe it? Help

5 (2m 12s):
A brother out. Make some news for me. I, I, I plan on running Al, but we're not prepared to announce it yet. Alright.

1 (2m 17s):
It seemed like everyone knew this was gonna happen. He told Al Roker casually that he was running again a couple weeks ago. He told Ireland he was running again. Why did he not officially tell the country he was running again first?

4 (2m 34s):
Well, he told that he intended on running again and he thought he would run again. But you know, there are legal considerations about exactly what happens when you make a campaign official involving fundraising being an official candidate for office and, and all kinds of things. So there is a lot of hair splitting traditionally around when a campaign has officially been launched. But the other thing is that, you know, he is the oldest president ever and any politician wants to signal that they're probably going to run again because the second they let it seem like they're not running again, they would lose all political support.

4 (3m 19s):
So one possibility, some people might have thought about that. Maybe he was just trying to keep his options open. He wasn't really fully decided on running for a second term.

1 (3m 33s):
How do people feel about this, Andrew? We don't talk a ton about polling on the show, but how do Americans feel about an even older president Joe Biden?

4 (3m 42s):
They're not really thrilled about it. There was an N B C poll that just came out a few days ago that showed that a 70% of Americans would rather Joe Biden not run for president again. Wow. That includes 51% of Democrats.

1 (4m 3s):
Wow.

7 (4m 4s):
And let me show you even more of this poll. 53% of 2020 Biden voters say he shouldn't run. 64% of Democrats who voted for Sanders are warn in the 2020 primaries. Think he shouldn't run. And 76% of voters under 35 think he shouldn't run.

1 (4m 18s):
And, and why is it that 70% of Americans might not be into this idea? Is it because simply Joe Biden is older than superglue?

4 (4m 27s):
That is part of it. Sure. But then there are other questions about his record in office and also about scandals that have been kind of simmering in the background and how important those will be.

1 (4m 43s):
What are we talking about like Hunter Biden or like the documents that were found in his various offices?

4 (4m 49s):
I think both the Hunter Biden investigation is still proceeding. It has not so far as we know, been wrapped up. No charges have been filed.

8 (5m 1s):
The investigation has been going on since 2018 and this stems from Biden's business dealings from Hunter Biden's business dealings in foreign countries like Ukraine while his father was serving as vice president.

4 (5m 13s):
It is something that is hanging over all this. Now as far as we know, that investigation just pertains to Hunter Biden's conduct, not Joe Biden's conduct, but it is a scandal that has advanced a bit further and and could potentially drag him down if conservatives and Republicans argue that it brings the White House into disrepute. There's also the classified document scandal. We haven't had a lot of news on that lately.

9 (5m 39s):
Classified government documents found inside one of President Biden's private offices. The records dating from Biden's time as vice president during the Obama administration,

4 (5m 51s):
Merrick Garland appointed a special counsel to supervise the investigation into the classified documents that were found at Biden's residence and office that he had used before he was elected president. And yeah, we haven't heard much of that, but I think probably the bigger concerns are about his record since taking office. The kind of uneasy place the economy is in where we had some inflation and we're hoping that we're past it. But there are all these questions about whether the economy will really end up in a soft landing or whether we might have a recession this year and all the sorts of struggles with governance that have proceeded in this first couple years.

1 (6m 38s):
Okay, so we've got the age factor, we've got the various controversies. Why isn't there anyone else making a clear claim to challenge Joe Biden in 2024?

4 (6m 52s):
It's generally believed and for good reason. I think historically that challenging the incumbent is extremely divisive and damaging to your party's chances of winning. In the general election, the last time we really saw a serious challenge to an incumbent president was 1980 with Jimmy Carter, where Ted Kennedy ran against him and had a pretty vigorous campaign against him, which was viewed as damaging Carter pretty badly.

10 (7m 22s):
I cannot understand what Mr. Carter is frightened about, why he's scared to defend his record. And it seems to me that the Democrats are gonna be reluctant to nominate a, a candidate for the president say that is unwilling to defend his record.

4 (7m 37s):
And of course he lost overwhelmingly to Ronald Reagan in the general election. Right now, only two Democrats who are even somewhat of note are in the race. That is Marianne Williamson. You may recall her from running in the 2020 primary friend of the show. Yes, yes.

11 (7m 55s):
I heard about confederate flags in Maine. It was like, who's gonna tell him? Right. So clearly what had happened, I know it's like,

4 (8m 6s):
And also Robert F. Kennedy Jr. Son of R F k anti-vaccine activist who's also launched his campaign recently. Not

1 (8m 17s):
A friend of the

4 (8m 17s):
Show, but there's no real credible democrat who's running the whole Democratic party does seem to be holding its fire and kind of uniting around Joe Biden despite open skepticism and opining even from elected Democrats that Biden maybe shouldn't run again.

12 (8m 37s):
You know, should he run again? I think that I, you know, I think it's, it's, we'll take a look at it.

1 (8m 44s):
Do

13 (8m 45s):
You wanna see Joel? I I don't wanna answer that question because we have not, that's not, yeah, I don't want to answer that

4 (8m 49s):
Question. But when he did, and Democrats did unusually well in the 2022 midterms, they lost a house, but they picked up a seed in the Senate. They didn't have the full red wave wipeout that many expected. That was viewed as kind of a sign of Biden's political strength in that he's not totally politically washed up. His approval rating right now is not great. It's in the low forties. It's historically not great, but if the alternative is a Republican party that's even less popular then, then that's still a winning hand for Biden and Democrats.

14 (9m 46s):
Here's the scene. You walk into a courtroom, but instead of meeting your human lawyer, you slip on a headset and you meet your AI lawyer,

15 (9m 55s):
It would listen to what's being said in the courtroom, process it with the AI and then whisper back to the person what to say.

14 (10m 2s):
This is Joshua Browder and he tried to get an AI lawyer into a real courtroom. It didn't go well. He got sued

15 (10m 10s):
And all these lawsuits, it's just the dinosaurs suing to stop the Ice Age.

14 (10m 15s):
Browder believes AI is the future, that it's real world magic and there are a lot of people like it. There's also a lot of people who think this is all bs. I'm Peter Kafka, I'm the host of Recode Media and I'm doing a special three part series breaking down the Hype around ai. You can find it in the Recode Media feed right now. This is something the biggest companies in the world are spending tons of money on something that's consuming Silicon Valley and it's something that has a lot of people really, really worried. I talked to all of them. So come tour the AI boom with me. The first episode is out now it's in the Recode Media feed.

0 (10m 53s):
Let's finish this job I know we can

1 (10m 55s):
Today explained is back. Andrew Procop, senior correspondent at Vox is gone, but Dylan Matthews, senior correspondent at Vox is here and Dylan, if I'm not mistaken, you recently wrote piece for vox.com titled Joe Biden is pretty good at being president. He should run again. I I think your dreams have come true, my friend.

16 (11m 17s):
It does appear so, you know, there are things I wish for that I, I don't think are gonna happen, like winning the lottery and then there is the incumbent president running for reelection and I thought that was a pretty attainable dream to have.

1 (11m 29s):
But you, you hear differ from like the majority of Americans it seems in thinking that he should be running at 81 years of age. Tell us why. I

16 (11m 40s):
Think Joe Biden like democracy is, is the worst option except for all the other ones. The Democratic party is a loose coalition of thoroughgoing left-wingers, more moderate liberals like Joe, labor liberals, conservatives who just didn't like Donald Trump for whatever reason. And bringing those elements of the party together is an inherently challenging job. And I think compared to the field of people that you could imagine being the democratic nominee, Biden does a quite good job of holding them all together in part because he's been around forever and he knows all the, the factions of the party well, and he knows them in a personalistic way that makes him better able to manage them than a pi, but a judge at Kamala Harris.

1 (12m 27s):
But let's talk about the actual job he's been doing because you write about his experience in the White House as a reason for wanting him to remain in the White House, right?

16 (12m 37s):
Right. I was surprised by how productive the first two years of the Biden administration were. I did a profile of Biden's policy agenda and policy team in the summer of 2020 and I came away thinking like, these guys are mildly delusional that he's, he's surrounded himself with these old timers who really think that it's the seventies and he can get a bunch of senators around a fire to smoke cigars and hash out deals. And that's just not the way Washington works anymore. This guy's not gonna get anything done. And he was able to get things done in exactly the way that he said he was going to by getting people around a table and hashing things out. He passed things like the CHIPS act and the infrastructure bill, which were major pieces of spending legislation that accomplished goals, like expanding funding for basic science and repairing bridges and improving rollout of semiconductor plants and things that had been goals of administrations for years.

5 (13m 32s):
The bill, I'm about to sign a law as proof that's despite the cynics, Democrats and Republicans can come together and deliver results, we can

16 (13m 43s):
Do this. And he did it on a bipartisan basis, which I would not have necessarily anticipated given how sort of fractured and, and polarized congresses at the moment. But he also got things done in a way that I, I sort of assumed he wouldn't try to, which is on narrow party lines by like fighting and scraping, which is how he got the American rescue plan through. People

17 (14m 4s):
Are waiting for relief. Yes, I got them 1.9 trillion relief so far.

18 (14m 11s):
They're gonna be getting checks in the mail that are consequential this week for childcare

16 (14m 18s):
And how he got the inflation reduction act through, which is the biggest piece of climate legislation the US has ever had.

19 (14m 24s):
President Biden made remarks before signing into law a bill aimed at lowering prescription drug cost and tackling climate change.

1 (14m 32s):
I think you just shouted out like maybe multiple trillions of dollars that President Biden spent in his two, three ish years in office so far. Of course we'd be remiss to not mention the state of the economy right now because he's also presided over growing inflation and fears of a recession.

16 (14m 55s):
One, I'm, I'm perhaps of a minority view, which is I think the economy right now is honestly not that bad. That inflation is around 5%. That's too high, but it's not like calamitously high unemployment is at record lows, wage growth is near record highs. People are working, people are getting raises. I infinitely prefer this economy to the one that prevailed the entirety of Barack Obama's time in office. That Obama went relatively small and economic stimulus in part due to constraints put on him by Congress, but in part due to sort of his own timid. And the result was a long sluggish recovery where you didn't have any inflation but you had elevated unemployment for a good decade or so.

16 (15m 36s):
Biden aired in the other direction of spending a ton of money all at once and sure enough, when you air in that direction, you get some inflation and the question is, do you want a little bit of inflation and the best labor market the the United States has ever had in my lifetime, or do you want no inflation but seven 8% unemployment for years in an entire generation that's scarred and sees their entire career setback.

1 (16m 1s):
You know, while we're on spending huge swats of money, let's talk about the war in Ukraine because billions upon billions are being spent there. Do you think his management of that crisis, at least American involvement in that crisis makes the argument for another four years of such management?

16 (16m 17s):
Yeah, I mean, I think I'm not a foreign policy expert and so add that asterisk to everything I say on Ukraine. I think America's goals going into this were to weaken Russia to deter them from invading neighbor states again to support Ukraine in repelling an invasion all while avoiding an actual war between Russia and nato and committing us drown troops and raising the probability of nuclear weapons being used. I think he's found a a pretty workable middle path where Russia has been weakened dramatically. The odds of Ukraine maintaining something like territorial integrity at the end of this war seem much higher than they did before the war started in large part due to commitments made by Biden and his administration all while not having anything remotely like some of the close calls we've had on un nukes and prior confrontations

1 (17m 15s):
While we're on war. Let's talk about the withdrawal from Afghanistan. It was a year and a half ago, August, 2021 when almost everyone looked at this video footage of planes taking off and people desperately clinging to them and falling off of them and said, this could have been done better almost, you know, two years later. How was Biden's decision to withdraw being remembered, being evaluated?

16 (17m 41s):
My short answer is we needed to get out of Afghanistan at some point. Like there was no universe after 20 years in which we were setting up and leaving behind a stable regime that could withstand a sustained assault from the Taliban. And there's no way to withdraw from a regime that you know is faltering without risks of, of chaos and mass evacuations and huge humiliating losses. I'm not saying there's no way they could have done it better. There's definitely ways they could have done it better. They could have accepted more refugees, they could have been more prepared for refugees, they could have been more expansive in protecting people who, who helped the allied coalition.

16 (18m 21s):
That being said, Biden was president during the Afghan war for like about eight months of it. There were 20 years before that.

1 (18m 30s):
And Afghanistan at the end of the day is an example of a promise President Biden kept. Let's talk about a few that he didn't, namely, let's say a permanent child tax credit, universal pre-k free community college and still yet to be realized student loan debt relief. Do you think the American people will be holding Joe Biden accountable potentially in 2024 for these unkept promises or as yet to be decided promises?

16 (19m 1s):
Many of the things that Biden has promised that have not come to pass are things that he needed congressional authorization for and he didn't have it. Some of the specific examples I think point to a difference between sort of the discourse and reality. Student debt relief was not wildly popular. Most Americans did not finish college. Most do not have student loan burdens. I don't think that's going to meaningfully affect his reelection chances at all. Those people are voting for Democrats if they're voting for anybody on the child tax credit. Like look, I started right about how we should have a fully refundable child tax credit in 2016 and I wrote about it for five years continuously like beating the drum that we needed this and then we got it and it did not take off the way I was anticipating.

16 (19m 48s):
And I still think it's a good idea and I still think people should fight for it. But it was not wildly popular. Joe Manchin was not talking out of nowhere.

20 (19m 56s):
Discussions over the social and climate package have soured between President Biden and Senator Joe Manchin. The Democrat from West Virginia now reportedly wants to eliminate an expansion of the child tax credit from the

16 (20m 9s):
Bill. He was, I think, accurately reflecting the views of his constituents as much as I disagree with those constituents. Is it sad? Yeah, I think it's a tragedy. They, they had a possibility of of making sort of a generational dent in child poverty and the Senate blinked. But do I think it's a threat to Biden's staying in office, especially when the alternative is Donald Trump? No, I don't.

1 (20m 32s):
Perhaps one of the most monumental political events during the Biden presidency at least thus far had little to do with President Biden. It was of course the Supreme Court overturning Roe v Wade in the summer of 2022. Despite having a warning that this was coming down the pike from a Supreme Court leak, president Biden seemed to be caught flatfooted when the Dobbs decision dropped. How has he handled it since Dylan?

16 (21m 6s):
So, I think Biden's in a, a tricky position because his actual authority on it is rather limited. Biden can appoint people to the courts and he's been breaking records in terms of how many lower court appointees he's added. He appointed Kathi Brown Jackson, who is a solid supporter of abortion rights, but that's also where Richard Nixon was. He was president when Roe v Wade was decided. He had appointed a bunch of the justices who voted for, for Roe v Wade. He was opposed to it and he had to deal with the after effect of that. So that's a fairly normal position for presidents to be in. I'd also say that as much as it's a substantive defeat, it's become clear that making abortion a state voting issue and, and something that state legislatures and ballot initiatives and, and to some degree acts of Congress speak to, hasn't been all bad for Democrats.

16 (21m 59s):
This started with you saying sort of Biden was kind of flatfooted in his response to, to Dobbs, which I don't disagree with. It's a, a major shift that's a political weight on everybody, but I don't know that the weight is biggest on Biden.

1 (22m 11s):
You know, Biden said back in 20 19, 20 20 when he was running for office, that he really wanted to

5 (22m 17s):
Stop the shouting and lower the temperature

1 (22m 20s):
And he has proven to certainly be a far cry from his predecessor. He doesn't tweet nearly as much, but, but things still feel pretty divisive in American politics from, you know, abortion rights fights to, to drag bands to more people than I can recall in modern history, yelling at the president during his State of the Union, even if he seemed to enjoy it,

5 (22m 42s):
Instead of making the wealthy pay their fair share. Some republicans, some Republicans want Medicare and Social security sunset. I'm not saying it's a majority.

1 (22m 55s):
How would you say he's doing on that key pillar of his presidency? Dylan?

16 (23m 1s):
I think I've, I'm a mix of sort of, kind of cynical and, and did, did he really ever think that was gonna work? But also the temperature in the last couple years and the degree of bipartisan collaboration does feel meaningfully different. I don't think you could have gotten a bipartisan infrastructure bill under either Trump or Obama and you did under Biden. And I think some of that is racism. I think like some of the virulence with which serve Obama was rejected and people didn't wanna work with him can be chalked up to that. But I think some of it is that Biden like is genuinely skilled at this and is committed to notching those victories and is not afraid of, of giving his opponents victories on things that they can share with him.

16 (23m 49s):
Has that made America a utopian public sphere where everyone debates using only reason? In fact, no. But has it made DC work a little bit better and a little more productive than I've seen it in a long time? I think it has actually.

1 (24m 10s):
Dylan Matthews Vox read him and Andrew procop@vox.com. Our show today was produced by Halma Shaw and Si Petros. We were edited by Amina Aldi, fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd. I'm Sean Ramas from the presidential election is 560 days away. We will try not to talk about it too much until it's closer on today. Explained

2 (25m 5s):
I

17 (25m 5s):
Wrote the bill on the environment.

21 (25m 19s):
We all need the right tools for success. A painter needs their perfect brushes and a climber needs to be able to rely on their harness and for your work, you need to stay connected with Slack teams can help you work better. Slack is a productivity platform that connects all your team members together instantly. It's built to help your team with a host of features like huddles for quick check-ins and clips for recording and sharing video. Slack also makes it easy to search and find the right information you need. You can even integrate the apps you use in your normal workflow, like your calendar or product management tools so you stay focused on the work that matters and get more done. Learn more at slack.com/productivity.