0 (1s):
It's today explained AB Noel King. In 2021, a record was set and when 2022 ends in a few weeks, that record will likely be broken yet again. Last year, lawyers filed a record breaking 325 class action lawsuits against food and beverage companies for misleading consumers. According to Perkins coi, a law firm that keeps track of such things,

1 (23s):
A woman has filed a lawsuit against Kellogg's, New York resident. Elizabeth Russett claims the strawberry pop-tarts do not contain well enough strawberries.

2 (32s):
An Illinois woman is suing after finding out the mozzarella stick sold with the TGI Friday's branding does not actually contain mozzarella.

0 (41s):
The man who filed many of these lawsuits has earned the nickname, the Vanilla Vigilante.

3 (47s):
Yeah, I would say I'm wired a little bit different

0 (50s):
Coming up. We ask this man Spencer Sheen, what motivates him on a quest that may seem absurd, and we dig into what consumers, you and me get out of it.

5 (1m 0s):
Vultures TV critics spend a lot of time looking for the best tv, which in 2022 has been hard.

6 (1m 8s):
There was certainly a lot of TV more than anyone could humanly watch, but then every so often there would be yes, many nights where I would say like, is there just a law and order from 20 years ago that I could watch

5 (1m 21s):
The best TV of the year? And why it's so difficult to find something to watch. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast,

4 (1m 43s):
It's

0 (1m 44s):
Today explained. I'm Noelle King. Spencer Sheen is a lawyer based in New York who specializes in consumer protection cases. What is he protecting consumers from? A thing that might seem minor to you to me, but to him is a very big deal, misleading food and beverage labels.

3 (2m 1s):
One of the cases that I like the best is against a and w, which is the company that produces root beer and cream soda, the staple beverage of every, you know, elementary school birthday party.

7 (2m 13s):
For 50 years, people have been coming to a and w Drive-ins for our rich natural tasting, old fashioned root

3 (2m 20s):
Beer, and for many years, a and w and on the root beer and cream soda advertise, it is made with aged vanilla.

8 (2m 28s):
A and w root beer is crafted with premium ingredients like aged vanilla for a straight from the barrel taste.

3 (2m 36s):
And in fact, there's practically no real vanilla aged or non aged in the product. Instead, the only vanilla taste is due to artificial vine Ramirez versus craft. This

9 (2m 50s):
Big lawsuit is about craft's Velveeta shells and cheese cups, and the companies claim that it takes only three and a half minutes to make it a microwave. The plaintiff from here in South Florida says that's a lie and she's suing for false advertising.

3 (3m 3s):
Some might say, well, it is ready in three and a half minutes, but our case says that the ancillary steps that are not listed as part of those three and a half minutes render the three and a half minute claim, not exactly truthful, and it's our intention that the label should be changed to reflect the time that it actually takes.

10 (3m 26s):
Ramirez says the claim is false since microwaving for three and a half minutes is one of several steps needed. Spencer,

0 (3m 34s):
Why are you doing this? This type of lawsuit, this type of thing.

3 (3m 37s):
I enjoy these things. I've always enjoyed marketing. I always enjoy, especially smaller things that the types of things that if let's say one were to call a customer service line and complain about, nobody would really take what you say seriously. And while of course this macaroni and cheese is, you know, an example that you know, has garnered a lot of attention, it's just one of many cases that deal with similar types of issues where companies go a little bit farther than I believe they should, and that's, you know, where, where I come in or at least you know, where my work is relevant.

0 (4m 20s):
Do you think you are wired a bit differently than other people to look at this and say, craft macaroni and cheese takes longer than three minutes to cook, even though the label says three minutes and that's a serious thing. What do you think is going on here? What feelings does this evoke in you?

3 (4m 38s):
Yeah, I would say I'm wired a little bit different. You know, I noticed the smallest of small things in a way that sometimes if, you know, I didn't resist those impulses could prevent me from having a productive day or productive life. Just the smallest little things I'd see at the corner of my eye that, you know, bother me. And sometimes I wish that I could just, you know, go past them. Maybe it's a, it's a table. It's not even at a, at a restaurant that I'm at or maybe it's a, it's a glass that, you know, has a crack in it. So things like that, I just, it's hard for me to look away from those things, but I also recognize that there is humor in these types of things and they don't challenge that.

3 (5m 22s):
And I'm never going to, you know, be so serious and say, oh, this is the most serious thing and you know, this is more important than curing cancer. Or, you know, giving equal rights to underprivileged groups. It's not a choice between one or the other. Just by writing, you know, many of these cases off as, as you know, many people who might click on an article might do. Absolutely. I mean, I don't blame them for thinking, oh, this is so silly. And, you know, making comments or just thinking, well, that's so zaney. I mean, I completely understand that.

0 (5m 53s):
Do you get tips from people or are these things that you notice when you're in the grocery store?

3 (5m 58s):
Certain cases, yes. There are things that I become aware of on my own and like any other attorney I can, you know, then inform others of that and then they can tell me, yes, that's something that I experienced and I'd like to do something about that. For many of the cases, that's how they originate. But for many, like this macaroni and cheese, it's legitimately from a third party or, you know, somebody who I don't know who contacts me. And while the macaroni and cheese one was filed, I would say at least 90% of the things that people submit to me, I don't file because I would think that, or I just think that they're kind of silly or not that they're kind of silly.

3 (6m 43s):
You probably wonder, wow, what must he think is silly if,

0 (6m 46s):
Yeah, I, I gotta say that does come to mind. What, what counts as silly for you?

3 (6m 51s):
Something that I often get is when people come to me about, you know, the pictures on a package not looking like the contents, and that happens every week. We all know what pictures on a box of food, you know, look like, and especially in the area of microwave and frozen meals, they look very delicious. But we also know that after we microwave that food or heated up, it's not going to look like that. That's one of them that I believe is, you know, unfortunately not at the top of my list for cases to do.

0 (7m 29s):
What changes have your lawsuits brought?

3 (7m 31s):
We are responsible, although it won't be publicly disclosed for the removal of the a and w made with aged vanilla claim from their root beer and cream soda. Also, I would point you to the Frito-Lay case against the hint of lime Tostitos.

11 (7m 50s):
This time Tostitos is in the hot seed over its lime flavored tortilla chips. A new class action lawsuit argues that there's hardly a hint of lime in the snack food and that Frito-Lay is deceiving customers.

3 (8m 2s):
I thought that case was kind of interesting because they were selling these tortilla chips advertised as, you know, hint of lime and there was a transparent lime shaped window on the front of the package. You're

12 (8m 14s):
Probably wondering what makes these chips taste so good? Here's a hint, it's lime. They taste like lime

3 (8m 26s):
And only at the very bottom of the product on all the way down in the corner did it say that, you know, basically that there wasn't in fact a hint of lime. It says there, you know, flavored a few months after my case was filed, their new packaging that gets rolled out is pretty clear that the hint of lime is actually a hint of lime flavor, which is qualifier to the hint of lime. Nobody likes to say that word flavored. It's a four letter word when it comes to labeling products because if you have to get into, you know, the flavor of something, then you lack the something that you are seeking to impart the flavor of.

3 (9m 6s):
So that's why the flavor word is often obscured and sort of placed in, you know, locations that rendered inconspicuous.

0 (9m 15s):
Is this just a form of, and forgive me for the expression, is this just a form of ambulance chasing? You can make a consistent living as long as you find these small ways in which food and beverage companies are screwing up and they will, they will reliably screw

3 (9m 30s):
Up. In a better world where we would have stronger enforcement and regulations from a government and the state and federal regulatory agencies, I wouldn't be doing this and lawyers like me wouldn't have, you know, the opportunity to do this because it would be something that before the product even got to the shelf, there would be a process whereby it's, you know, reviewed and that companies would know that, you know, they should be more conservative with the way they represent it. A you know, less the government, you know, not allow it to be, to be distributed. The same thing about the small benefits that can be said about a lot of different areas of law.

3 (10m 17s):
It's small, but it's multiplied by, you know, millions of, you know, people who see these things. Yes, it's, it's hard to measure and that's one of the issues that lawsuits like this typically struggle with, or at least the courts may struggle with it because how do you define what that value is To think that somehow there's gonna be a day where you know, this job is somehow complete or you you win or that everything is going to be, you know, accurate and truthful and honest, that that day will never come. When we're dealing with the society where we have, you know, all different companies independent, competing against each other, it's impossible to, you know, envision a scenario where everybody is going to follow what we believe are the accurate regulations and guidelines for representing their products.

3 (11m 13s):
And even in some instances, if, if it can be argued that everybody follows the law, which will be argued today, there's always going to be interpretations and that's just, you know, the nature of, of laws and that is the purpose of courts to identify, you know, where those interpretations are correct and where they, you know, should be pushed back a little bit.

0 (11m 44s):
Lying to or misleading consumers on food labels seems like a thing that shouldn't be happening all that often and yet it is coming up. Why it's taking lawsuits to get food companies to stop

ClickUp (12m 8s):
Support for this show today comes from click up. And though I will admit I've never used it, I do have something in common with click up, which is I think we're both obsessed with productivity. Good thing I work for a daily new show, plenty to do. Click up is a productivity platform designed to save you a full day every week. That means more time for clients, for meetings, for eating snacks. Who doesn't love snacks? Here's how it works. Click up houses all your projects and documents and goals and spreadsheets and anything else you need for work in one place. So you're gonna spend less time clicking between all your tabs and your different programs you're running. You can help your team of 10 plus be more efficient and productive with Click Up listeners can use the code, explain to get 15% off click ups, massive unlimited plan for a year, meaning you can start reclaiming your time for under $5 a month. You can sign up today@clickup.com with the code explained.

0 (13m 13s):
Hey everyone, Sean, putting on my <unk> you know, public radio p b s hat right now to remind you that today explain comes to you year round in part thanks to support from generous listeners, just like you, access to trustworthy information and explanations of complex ideas and issues is a core part of our mission at Vox and you can support that mission right now by giving. This month Vox is aiming to add 3000 contributors to the community of people supporting our journalism to keep our explanatory journalism free for all people.

13 (13m 51s):
Financial gifts directly support everything Vox does. You can make a gift@vox.com give today to help us reach our goal of 3000 contributors this month. There's also a link in the show notes of this very episode you're listening to right now. Thank you so much for supporting Vox,

4 (14m 13s):
It's live

0 (14m 16s):
Today explained. We're back with Helena BMI Yic, who's the founder and editor-in-Chief of Food Fix, a newsletter about food policy. And Helen, earlier in the show we talked to a class action lawyer who has made suing food and beverage companies for misleading packaging his thing. Do you think these lawsuits are effective or are they a waste of time? They

14 (14m 36s):
Can kind of be both at the same time? I mean it's a, it's a really good question. Are consumers really harmed by maybe being confused about vanilla flavoring? Right? Which is what those lawsuits are about. Is that an important question? I think a lot of consumers would probably say it isn't, but a lot of litigation like this similar litigation around questions like, you know, calling something natural is that misleading? Those lawsuits have really changed industry practices. They've led to less labeling of, of natural on food products because there were so many to it. So it does change behavior and it does reign in some of this marketing, but whether or not there's a real public health issue I think is a, is a separate question.

14 (15m 18s):
I

0 (15m 19s):
Was surprised when the attorney told me that he has filed hundreds of these lawsuits over the past couple of years. That seems like a lot. Is the pace of this kind of litigation increasing? Are we seeing more of these?

14 (15m 31s):
It is absolutely increasing. That lawyer is so prolific that he is actually named specifically in like the roundup reports that are done about the state of litigation in the, in the country targeting the food industry. Oh, you

0 (15m 46s):
Know him,

14 (15m 47s):
I don't know him personally, but you know, I recently read the Perkins Kuey, you know, update on food litigation, which is basically the map for the food industry of like, you know, what's the state of play and he's specifically named in that report. That's how prolific he is. But there's no question overall these lawsuits have increased really over the past, you know, decade plus. We've seen a more than tripling of the number of class action lawsuits targeting food companies and they've really increased in the last year or two. And I think a lot of that increase is lawsuits specifically from that attorney.

0 (16m 19s):
Why do you think we're seeing more litigation? Is there something other than this one? Man

14 (16m 23s):
Over time consumers have gotten a lot more interested in their food, where it comes from, you know, marketing claims surrounding it. They are more interested in healthy eating. And so I think as the food industry has tried to meet that demand and really market products as more healthful or more natural or more simple, I think it's easier for lawyers to find consumers who are willing to, to sue food companies, right? Because they might feel frustrated when a claim they thought was being made maybe doesn't match up with reality. So there's that. And then I think also money, this comes down to, you know, if you win one of these lawsuits or you or you get a settlement, attorneys take a percentage of the settlement.

14 (17m 6s):
So there's a lot of money at stake and I think the food industry in some ways has made itself sort of an easy target. I mean there's a lot of ridiculous labels out there. I'm a reporter who covers food policy and I am confused about food labels, right? Like I get duped. I am just as confused as I think a lot of consumers find themselves. There's just a lot of claims being made and it's really hard to tell what's real and what's not. Sometimes

0 (17m 29s):
In what way do you get duped? I

14 (17m 31s):
Find the egg section particularly fraught like the claims around eggs, cage free pasture raised, you know, on pasture. Some of them actually give space requirements 108 square feet per bird. And you know, if you really pressed me on like which one of these has something behind it and which one doesn't, I think I would have trouble

0 (17m 56s):
To that end when Frito-lay claims that their chips have a hint of lime that is in fact a hint of lime flavoring. Why does it take a lawsuit to make them stop doing that? Isn't there a government agency that regulates this kind of marketing?

14 (18m 9s):
So F D A for sure is on the lead for the labeling of at least the products they oversee, right? So that's about 80% of the food supply, a lot of packaged foods, fruits, vegetables, basically everything except for meat. That's U S D A, right? So U S D A actually pre approves labels, they have a much more hands-on approach. Yes. They pre, they have to approve all labels for meat and poultry products. And so FDA is in a much more passive position, right? So they do set rules, but FDA as an agency has a ton on its plate. They're also in charge of food safety for 80% of the food supply. And a lot of experts would tell you they are, you know, they don't necessarily have the resources to really fully do that job as consumers expect them to.

14 (18m 53s):
And so things like food labeling, you know, you know, is everything exactly as it should be. It's not necessarily the top priority of FDA to be out there like policing labels. I think these lawsuits in some ways do provide a check on the industry because you know, if you work for a food company, you know that there are plaintiff's attorneys out there who are looking to catch you on something, right? And if they can get traction in a court and if they can get a settlement, that's, you know, that's the significant cost to the industry.

0 (19m 22s):
Let me ask you about a big one. What does it take for something to be called healthy?

14 (19m 26s):
Yeah, healthy is such an interesting one because I recently went to the store and tried to find like how many products are actually labeled as healthy because FDA's in the process of updating the definition of healthy FDA has spent seven years trying to update this standard. And we just came out with a proposed rule to do that. Essentially it's, you know, making sure right now we have a limit on fat, total fat, it has to have a certain amount of iron, calcium, so it has to have some of the good stuff, right? So FDA has rules around what can, I guess we would say nutrients of, you know, with health benefits, right? So there's some rules around that. FDA is proposing adding some criteria to that to actually make it stricter and to include a cap on added sugar under

15 (20m 11s):
The existing he healthy definition on, you know, oily fish like salmon would not be allowed to carry the healthy claim on its label, but cereals get this sweetened with sugar and packed with sodiums could. And that's because current standards only look at what individual nutrients like vitamin A see calcium, iron protein, dietary fiber, and saturated fat, fat on food products. So cereals, they take off certain boxes that meet current standards, whereas salmon naturally contains high levels of fat, which are considered bad back in 1994.

14 (20m 42s):
One of the reasons FDA wants to update the definition of healthy is to have it be more in line with the current dietary guidelines, which does recommend consumers limit their consumption of added sugars to no more than 10% of their total calories. So actually not that much in the grocery store is, is right now labeled healthy. Only 5% of products in grocery store have that label. It's, and that's before FDA makes the definition more strict.

0 (21m 11s):
How are misleading claims on labels brought to the attention of the fda, if not for lawsuits are, does the FDA have like super shoppers that go around and look themselves?

14 (21m 22s):
That's a really good question, and if they do, I want to profile them. I, you know, I think a lot of it frankly is competitors that raise concerns. So, you know, if you notice your competitor, let's say you're a bar company and they're making claims saying that they're healthy and they don't meet the definition that would be, I don't know, an example of something you might flag to the fda. I think that's a a, a big fit, a big way. The FDA gets certain things on their radar, but lawsuits do, I think affect the industry behavior in a way that is much broader and also frankly, quicker.

14 (22m 3s):
So going back to the natural example, for a long time we saw food companies using natural as a very common sort of positive word on their labels. And after a ton of lawsuits, food companies are much less willing, I think, to go out on that limb, right? Because if you know you're gonna face litigation over it, it's sort of like why deal with it? But on the flip side, FDA has been totally unwilling to define what is natural, right? Because if FDA had a definition, then you wouldn't be able to get traction in the courts, right? Because it's a decided issue. Yeah, and there's rules. So the food industry for a long time really wanted to see FDA like define natural so that, that it would be a safe term for them to use and the agency never did and probably never will.

14 (22m 51s):
Cause it's just, it's a really hard thing to define.

0 (22m 53s):
How has the food and beverage industry responded to these lawsuits, especially to the increase in these lawsuits?

14 (22m 59s):
Well, it is certainly keeping defense lawyers, huh? Employed, there's a lot of work, right? So as these lawsuits have e exploded, it's not only been work for the plaintiff's bar, but also the defense bar. So, you know, they're, they're defending them, right? And they are in some of these getting a lot of traction. I think the vanilla lawsuits have been mostly dismissed. There's not, not every issue is going to get traction in the courts. And so even, even when they don't get traction, however, though it's a big expense.

16 (23m 28s):
This is just a, a prime example, what we call lawsuit abuse. The evidence is very clear that in these types of consumer class actions that the consumer gets little if anything, but that the lawyers do quite well.

14 (23m 40s):
You now have a food industry that is very mindful of lawsuits, right? Right. And very mindful of marketing claims and not going too far or not going too far in their marketing claims without thinking like what is the litigation risk here? I think that is mu a much bigger factor in the decisions that food companies make now, what's

0 (24m 1s):
The biggest thing these lawsuits accomplish? I

14 (24m 3s):
Think they do reign in marketing a tad on food labels. I think looking at things like, you know, the baby food lawsuits,

17 (24m 12s):
The lawsuit alleges one serving of Gerber baby food will expose a six month old to three times the amount of lead an adult is allowed to have in one day. Those

14 (24m 22s):
Could potentially have more of an impact because they do push the food industry that, you know, the baby food manufacturers to then push FDA harder to set standards, right? We don't have heavy metal limits for most baby foods and therein lies the issue here, right? Without clear federal standards, there's more gray area and I think more gray area leads to more litigation. And so I think it does create some more pressure on F D A to set clearer standards and to, you know, be more of a cop on the beat.

0 (25m 4s):
Today's show was produced by Victoria Chamberlain and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by Paul Robert Mosey and fact checked by Laura Bullard. The rest of our team includes Amanda Lou, Ellen Halima Shaw, aha, artsy Hai, Modi Miles, Brian Victoria Chamberlain, aem, Shapiros Petros, and my co-host Sean Ramas firm. Our supervising producer is Amina Elad. We use music from Breakmaster Cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. I'm Noelle King today explained as part of the Vox Media podcast network and we are distributed to public radio stations across the United States by W N Y C.