0 (0s):
Support for this podcast comes from Amazon Prime. Being a Prime member comes with a ton of perks, especially during Prime Big deal days. This two day shopping event will give Prime members exclusive deals on the things they love, fashion, electronics, home goods, you name it, And, that can make you feel like a big deal. Don't miss out on two days of big savings. Join Prime now just in time for Prime Big Deal Days Happening October 10th and 11th. Learn more@amazon.com slash Prime. Big deal days.

2 (41s):
Hey everyone. Today we have something different for you, but we think you're gonna like it. It's an episode from our friends at Intuit, and it's about the 50th anniversary of Hip Hop. So, you know, Intuit, it's the show that Sam Sanders hosts, and in this episode, Sam is taking a critical look at Hip Hop. He's a big fan, but he's also gonna look at how the politics of Hip hop have drifted away from its radical origins and how the genre hasn't really reckoned with its history of both misogyny and homophobia. If, you like what you hear in this episode. Remember, you can always get more from Sam and his team at Vulture by following Into It in your favorite podcast app. New episodes drop every Tuesday and Friday.

0 (1m 20s):
Hey, you're listening to Intuit from Vulture in New York Magazine. I'm your host, Sam Sanders, and this episode, Hip Hop at 50. So I am sure you know by now that Hip hop is officially 50 years old this year, and it seems everyone is celebrating. There was a big Hip hop tribute at the VMAs earlier this month.

3 (1m 43s):
Flash Prize.

0 (1m 48s):
The New York Times did this massive interactive package this year where they interviewed 50 iconic rappers run D M C and Nas and Snoop Dogg. They had a Hip Hop anniversary concert at Yankee Stadium.

4 (2m 3s):
Now show the West Coast. Let's get in Hip Hop 50, the celebration, let's get,

0 (2m 9s):
And all of this celebration and coverage. It has been mostly incredibly positive fawning rose colored glasses, which has made me wonder, are they seeing what I'm seeing? Because to me right now, Hip hop is in a bad place. I've talked about this on the show before. Hip Hop's not well. A lot of the biggest men in rap seem truly unhappy. I'm looking at you, Drake, The genre has gotten really corporate and rap, and Hip hop is topping the charts a lot less than it was even five years ago.

0 (2m 54s):
Hip hop at 50 is maybe not doing as well as all this anniversary coverage would have you think. So, this episode we're gonna hear from a couple of critics who love Hip hop enough to say, do better, do better by women and queer people, and confront Hip hop's, misogyny, and homophobia. And maybe stop selling out. We're gonna talk with an academic this episode, who argues that Hip Hop has gotten too corporate and cushy in its middle age, and he argues that it's now in a showy, ostentatious, full-fledged midlife crisis. Stay with us all that after the break are not too nice.

0 (3m 36s):
Take on Hip Hop at 50 Support for this podcast comes from Amazon Prime. Let's be honest, everyone loves a little v i p treatment. Whether it's a stranger holding your door or an extra nugget in your order, it's a reminder that your parents were right. You are special. Now during Prime big deal days, feel like the ultimate v i p with exclusive savings just for Prime members. Join Prime today just in time for Prime Big Deal days. This two day shopping event offers personalized suggestions with huge savings Prime big deal days happening October 10th and 11th.

0 (4m 21s):
Learn more@amazon.com slash Prime. Big deal days

1 (4m 30s):
In

0 (4m 31s):
The midst of all this glowing Hip hop anniversary coverage. One essay this year stopped me in my tracks, Jason England wrote it for a defector. Jason's an assistant professor at Carnegie Mellon University and his defector piece is called 50 years Later. Is there anything left of Hip Hop? It's a doozy and it has lines like this quote, Hip Hop has reached its midlife crisis. It took the corporate job, bought the Ferrari, left its family, and hit the dating apps. It found new crowds and it still went out to the clubs. But no one has a heart to tell it that just maybe it isn't the coolest motherfucker in the room anymore.

0 (5m 16s):
Wow. So yeah, to start this chat, what do you mean when you write that Hip hop is in a midlife crisis? I'm just obsessed with this imagery.

7 (5m 26s):
I grew up in the middle of the golden age of it in New York City, and so having been there for almost not all 50 years, but a lot of it I've seen it mature and grow. And it's starting to remind me of people in my family and friends where it's like, you got older. I don't know that you matured and and I kind wanna evaluate this because I love you. Right? Yeah. So I respect Hip hop enough to critique it because to thoughtfully critique something is actually a deep and sincere form of respect. It means you take something seriously. The puff pieces. Hmm. That feels like you're just patting a kid on the head and saying, Hey, good job.

0 (6m 5s):
Yeah. Yeah. I want you to give me an example of Hip hop at Midlife Crisis. Is there a song? Is there an artist that really gets at that idea for you right now? And the consciousness in the zeitgeist of Hip Hop?

7 (6m 20s):
You know, you mentioned the Vice President and, and, and Lil Wayne. You have these sort.

0 (6m 24s):
So before we even began recording, Jason and I were commiserating over this really, really strange moment that happened earlier this month. Lil Wayne was rapping his song Mrs. Officer in front of the Vice President's official residence for a Hip hop anniversary party.

7 (6m 54s):
You have these sort of like absurdist, as you said, boondocks moments that would've seemed impossible years ago.

0 (7m 0s):
And it felt like another sign that Hip Hop has maybe gone from revolutionary to Peak establishment. And there's more in

7 (7m 9s):
The piece. I talk about watching the guy who wrote Black Cop in the Sound of the Police.

4 (7m 15s):
That's the sound the police Police,

7 (7m 23s):
You know, freestyle reverently for the New York mayor who is a black cop.

0 (7m 30s):
And we should say this is KS one, the rapper who was there at the start of Hip Hop, who was clearly not on the side of the police. Now freestyle rapping for Cop Turned Mayor Eric Adams. Lemme

8 (7m 43s):
Tell you, What it is, I'm off the top. This is what we call real Hip Hop off the block. I'm telling you right now, because back in the day, it was a mayor called Mayor and it didn't know his way. He held us looking, he said War on Graffiti had us run it all up and down the whole city. But 20 years later, guess who popped up? Really pop. And you know what

0 (8m 8s):
Up. Yeah. Kss one calling Eric Adams real Hip Hop. So Jason and I kept talking about all these rappers and signifiers that seemed to indicate that Hip hop is truly in a midlife crisis, lost its edge, got a little soft, you can see it everywhere once you start looking Ice T who once sang a song called Cop Killer. He has played a cop in the law and order cinematic universe for two decades. Now.

9 (8m 36s):
You for violating and volunteering servitude and Pen Jack, in case you haven't heard Lincoln Free the Slaves.

0 (8m 42s):
But maybe the biggest example of Hip hop at a midlife crisis right now is Jay-Z, arguably the most successful rapper alive.

7 (8m 51s):
Jay-Z's incredibly talented, but Jay-Z is the person who ushered in this, this idea. I'm not a rapper, I'm a hustler who happens to know how to rap, right?

10 (9m 4s):
CDs a businessman. I'm businessman.

0 (9m 9s):
I'll tell you what I think most signifies Hip hop at midlife crisis, everything Jay-Z has been doing for the last five to seven years. Everything, and I wanna get specific here. There was one of the more recent albums of his, and let me tell you, they all kind of got bad after the Black album, but there was one or two albums where it was, it wasn't even just luxury rap, it was like conspicuous consumption rap. And there was one album, I wanna say, was it 4 44, where he spends a lot of time in one song talking about like art collection as investment, some

10 (9m 51s):
Artwork for 1,000,002 years later. That shit worth 2 million, two years later. That shit worth 8 million. Can't wait. Children, y'all think it's bougie. I'm

0 (10m 3s):
Like, and I'm like, are you, this is the, this is the same guy who was running drugs in the projects. Yeah. Like he's an art collector now. And it's like, fine, get your art. But it was vaguely Cosby esque. Pull up your pants energy. Yeah. And I was like, oh, we are, we're down bad if this is, if this is the most successful rapper in Hip hop businessman of all time, and he's talking about this, that's midlife crisis for Hip Hop. That right there. Yes.

7 (10m 36s):
Well, he, he definitely seems to be in one. and it, and Jay's been so successful, it's hard to critique him on some levels. You can't say that he's gone wrong. But as an artist, I told,

0 (10m 47s):
Have you listened to 4 44?

7 (10m 49s):
Unfortunately, I listen to everything. I think you were wrong. Think you were wrong. There is nothing that I don't listen to. I will listen to everything so I can have a part in this conversation. Yeah, that's, but I don't listen to it with a great deal of joy. And all of tho his later albums have kind of blended together. I think I called him sort of these Rich Dad Poor Dad Ro Robert Kiyosaki out. Wow. So he is giving these, he gives terrible financial advice.

10 (11m 11s):
I could've bought a place in Dumbo before it was Dumbo for like 2 million. That same building today is worth 25 million. Guess how I'm feeling? Dumbo nigga.

7 (11m 23s):
Right. Die ki like Kiyosaki's whole thing was, Hey, I've got a thousand pieces of, of financial advice, but really I'm making money off this book that tells you how to get rich. You know? It's like, this is not for me, man. This feels like a, it's not for me. A cult personality. Yeah. Ice Cube for me is the craziest one. Hip Hop always leaned anti-establishment. It's always had screwy politics. But they said Eazy-e I had lunch with George Bush senior. That is true. And. that did happen. Why? You

11 (11m 53s):
Might not have guessed that Eazy-e Eric Wright is his real name would be among this group of well off Republicans who paid $1,250 to become members of something called the Republican Inner Circle who were waiting in line today to hear law and order man George Bush at a private members only reception.

7 (12m 11s):
What's crazy though, in terms of Hip hop and his midlife crisis is the man who said, I'll never have dinner with the president. I

4 (12m 18s):
Never have with the president. And when I your ass again, I'll be hesitant.

7 (12m 24s):
That man is now running around with Steve Bannon and Tucker Carlson And. that is Wow. Completely insane. Yeah.

12 (12m 31s):
So why would you be doing this of all interviews? I mean, you could do an interview with anyone. You're doing an interview with me. Obviously you're, you're gonna take abuse for doing that. Like, why would you do that?

13 (12m 42s):
Because I think it's silly not to talk to people.

7 (12m 47s):
Yeah. You know, that's, that, that is, that is shocking.

0 (12m 50s):
Yeah. So Jason, and I did this for a while, going through examples of Hip hop artists showing the genre in a midlife crisis. But eventually I pushed back like, what's wrong with these rappers making money and getting reliable, high paying jobs? What is wrong with them being cool with politicians? What is wrong with them? Building business empires? Isn't that how it always works when any genre goes from the margins to the mainstream? We've talked about how Hip hop has become so mainstream, how it's become so driven by hyper Capitalism and conspicuous consumption. But could there have been any way that Hip hop went mainstream in a different manner, in a manner that pleased you more?

0 (13m 34s):
And what would that path have been?

7 (13m 36s):
No. And I think right in this piece was becoming the grips with that In some ways, I think in an American society, and, you know, I think I used the term from public enemy, the anti   machine. What do black people create that they can own as a collective in a society where our numbers are fairly small and then relative to the dominant group are actual resources are even less significant. It's inevitable in a white capitalistic society that this is going to happen. I really do believe that. So I didn't want, I wasn't saying, Hey, I Blame you people. I Blame us.

7 (14m 16s):
We lost, we were gonna lose control. The same way the jazz artists, that the jazz artists didn't wanna lose jazz. Yeah. Now, could it have gone a different way in terms of people preserving the culture and not leaning, not following the lead of some of the worst bad faith actors? I, you'd have to ask them, you know, I don't wanna speak for, for, for, for the people who are my heroes, and I don't want to be naive. I don't know what decisions they had to make. I don't know what bills would do.

0 (14m 42s):
How much of the essay and how much of this conversation is you being critical of Hip hop and rightfully so. And how much of it is actually you being critical of Capitalism?

7 (14m 55s):
Much of it is me being critical of Capitalism. But I think mostly what I'm critical of is our lack of interest in having real conversations. That frustrates me. Right? As Hip hop at 50, like you, let's

0 (15m 9s):
Argue about it. Let's, let's actually

7 (15m 10s):
Argue. I expects more pieces that really delved Into It one, because who doesn't like those conversations

0 (15m 15s):
Baby? I love them. Yeah.

7 (15m 16s):
Yes. That's, those are the best ones. And, and this is a culture at its root. If we're being honest, I, it's amazing how few people know about,

0 (15m 24s):
It's a battle culture. I remember in my youth, all the rappers were literally fighting in their songs. Like, this is kind of the point of the genre. You can do that.

7 (15m 32s):
It's when we stop criticizing each other, it's when we stop taking things seriously and saying, it's okay if this person is making a bag of money that justifies it, that's when the culture starts to slip away.

0 (15m 47s):
Last question for you. Not really a question. Just to kind of comment. I think back to when Hip Hop was like maybe better than it was now and less of a midlife crisis than it was now. When I think back of the quote unquote golden era of Hip hop decades ago, I still kind of don't see it as that golden. And I look at it kind of as an outsider because I'm a black man and some of it relates to me inherently because of that. But I'm also gay. And the genre has always kept me at arm's length because of that. When it wasn't like throwing SLS at me in the songs. And I think, like for me, it makes me look at Hip Hop at 50 and this kind of weird middle aged midlife crisis rock is like not that surprising because like Hip Hop always had these big blind spots and like if the blind spot wasn't hyper Capitalism at the start, I could see the genre being open to that blind spot because they had the biggest blind spot around gender and sexuality forever, like from the start.

0 (16m 56s):
So yeah, I'm like disappointed for Hip hop, but not surprised by it.

7 (16m 60s):
Dream Hint made that case. How can we say Hip Hop was ever progressive if it was always so deeply homophobic and misogynist? How?

0 (17m 7s):
Yeah.

7 (17m 8s):
Oh yeah. That's a hundred percent true. I think people have a big problem discussing that. I don't think it's changed all that much. Again, I think that we have, Hip Hop has always had a radical posture, right? That doesn't mean it was radical in action at times. It was. But you cannot deny just how to deny that

0 (17m 29s):
Reality.

7 (17m 30s):
Bigoted and, and, and homophobic. And misogynist. The music has always been. And in that way it is again, deeply American. Mm.

0 (17m 40s):
Thanks again to Jason England Coming up. There are more women in Hip hop than there were 50 years ago. But as Hip hop today, actually better to women,

14 (17m 58s):
Hip Hop needs to be seen as something that is, you know, as beautiful and as creative and as innovative as it is, it is still something that still has its flaws. And the major flaws have to do with women and queer folks.

0 (18m 11s):
That's Kiana Fitzgerald. She's a Hip hop scholar and journalist. And she recently published a book all about Hip Hop at 50. So as our previous guest mentioned, at the end of that last chat, most of the 50th anniversary coverage of Hip Hop has failed to acknowledge perhaps Hip Hop's original sin. It's rampant misogyny and homophobia. It was there from the start and it seems like it's still with us. I wanted to talk about that and see if any progress has been made. 'cause I see artists like Cardi and Megan and Doja Cat making waves and Hip hop. But even still, it doesn't feel like enough. Have there been any parts of this anniversary celebration of Hip Hop so far that have really just felt the most, I don't know, problematic to you?

0 (18m 55s):
Like I keep thinking of these instances of like middle-aged male rappers hanging out with law enforcement or like former law enforcement. Mm. Like, you know, you got KS one freestyle rapping for Mayor Eric Adams, a former New York police officer. You got Lil Wayne singing Mrs. Officer in front of Kamala Harris. Yeah. Who during her time as AG in California was known as California's cop in chief. It feels weird. Were there any moments for you that you were like, oh my God, this is not right.

14 (19m 29s):
Oh man. Well, those are two great examples of me being like w t F, like, what is, yeah. What is actually happening in my face? Yeah. It's especially for, you know, a genre that is so, you know, like N w A F, the police, like, you know, this is something that we are very, very aware, has been deeply involved in Hip hop since this beginning, is this aversion to police and being avoidant of them and being critical of them. So it's like, you know, these decades later, what's, what is that about? Like, what do we, what are we really doing? I remember watching the Grammys and perusing social media as one does during those events. And Dr. Dre was presented with the Global Impact Award.

14 (20m 10s):
Everybody

15 (20m 11s):
In here probably knows this already, but this is the 50th anniversary of Hip Hop

16 (20m 17s):
Makes some noise for Hip Hop. Yeah.

14 (20m 21s):
And it was like, oh, so we're really celebrating outright an abuser who has admitted to his abuse. And that's just kind of one example of an artist who has been championed year after year, decade after decade for really making these huge impacts on Hip hop and not really tipping the skills in order to say, well, this is what he's accomplished, but this is also what harm he's done. And, that conversation happens here and there in certain pockets of the internet, but it doesn't really happen on the, the stages and it doesn't happen in the performances. It doesn't happen in, you know, the, the places where more people will see it and hear it. It's more critical pieces that don't get the attention that an award show or something like that would have.

0 (21m 5s):
Yeah. Well, and when you think about all these now middle-aged legends of Hip Hop who are being honored in 2023, all the early stuff was really mean to women and gay people, and they never had to apologize for it. You know, tribe called Quest had a song about date rape, that's KRS One had a song that was kind of slut shammy, you know, Jay-Z, biggie, Tupac. They all had lyrics that were demeaning to women. And over time everyone just forgot about it. You know, it it like, there was never an answering for that.

0 (21m 47s):
They just kind of stopped doing it. Yes,

14 (21m 49s):
Exactly. When you say Jay-Z I think of girls, girls, girls. I think of Big Pimping, which is one of my favorite songs because U g K is on it. And I love U G K. Yeah. But, you know, Jay-Z pretends like those songs don't exist anymore. and it is like, well, we remember, you know, the videos are out there, remember the, it's still on streaming. Like it has not gone away. But I think as these artists mature, they kind of come to terms with some of their material and they're like, Ooh, that wasn't a good look. Maybe I should just pretend like it doesn't exist. And that's not how the world works. That's not how the internet works. And people have very long memories. So I think in their efforts and their attempts to kind of reconstruct their own histories, they're doing more harm than good.

14 (22m 32s):
Because at the end of the day, we know what we heard. We know who we saw. So it's like, just because these events have gone by and they've, they're 10, 20, 30 years old now, doesn't mean that they, that they never happened.

0 (22m 46s):
I wanna talk about this kind of weird dichotomy of women and Hip hop. Hip Hop has generally been mean to women, but women have also always been there for Hip hop. You know, even the first party that was believed to be the start of Hip Hop and Hip Hop DJing, this DJ Kool Herc party. It was his sister Cindy's party, the party where Hip hop started a woman through the party. Right. Exactly. Like how symbolic is that, knowing that, and knowing that history If, you had to sum up Hip hop's relationship to women in 30 seconds or less, what would you say?

14 (23m 28s):
Whew. Hip hop has been very unkind, to say the least, to women. It has from the very beginning, tried to ostracize them, tried to make them feel like they didn't belong, tried to make them feel like if they were involved, then they, that they should, should be lucky to be there. And not only that, the women who were included were told that they had to look a certain way, that they had to dress a certain way. Mm. There were so, so many parameters that were involved in the policing of women in Hip hop that are still existent today. And I think that's why we've seen this explosion of Hip hop artists currently who are women and who are really just not able to take the microphone and say, Hey, I'm here and I'm gonna tell you about my experiences and the way that I've lived it.

14 (24m 14s):
I think all of these elements that have kind of been thrown together in this, this great melting pot of Hip hop, it's an exciting adventure for women contemporarily because of all the walls and the barriers that, that have been broken. But at the same time, they're standing on the shoulders and on the, you know, the halos of some women who will never get the, the credit and the acclaim that they deserve.

0 (24m 36s):
Yeah. And I mean, you know, when I asked this question about how Hip hop treats women, it's also a question about how Hip hop treats queer people, which is maybe even worse. I remember it wasn't until I was in high school, and I'm 39 now, it wasn't until I was in high school when rap kind of decided to stop saying the word faggot. Yeah. Like, that was a big deal. Big. And even then it kind of stopped. But you still don't see queer rappers prominently in the industry.

14 (25m 7s):
No, we don't. And I'm so glad you brought that up. As I was doing research for the book, I heard so many efforts, so many efforts, and I was like, wow. I did not, like, I knew that it was, you know, prevalent, but I didn't know that it was that of a,

0 (25m 22s):
That everyone was doing it.

14 (25m 23s):
Everyone, everyone literally, the people that we respect to this day were doing it. It's mind blowing how, just how cavalier people were about it. How it was just like something that rolled off the tongue very easily. And I was just like, wow, this is frightening to hear. So I'm glad that we're in a place where it's not as weaponized, but it still is very much present. But yeah, I feel like today we don't have nearly the amount of queer artists and representation that we could have. We do have, you know, the, the people who are very visible like a lil Nas X and then we have other folks like Keg sta we have rah rah Gaur, who I love, who identifies as gender fluid from New Jersey.

14 (26m 6s):
There are so many artists who are like creating at every level of the genre, but they're not giving the resources. They're not given the attention, the, the, the developmental attention that they need to become the artists that they could be. They're really just having to go out here and just get it how they live by themselves. And, that does not always equate to art that is appreciated on a global level. So I can only hope that in the next 50 years, not to sound cliche, but I hope that, you know, as we move forward, that it will become much more inclusive. That it will become much more diverse in every single way. That is utterly possible. Because Hip Hop, Hip hop is all about giving voice to the voiceless.

14 (26m 50s):
Which, you know, as journalists, we know that phrase very well. But for people outside of our profession, that's what Hip Hop has become. It's become this very, very instrumental tool to help people to turn their lives and their experiences into something bigger, something relatable, something that anybody could listen to and say, I feel that I've been through that. So that doesn't just come down to straight men. You know, that's not how, that's not how the world works. So I can only hope that moving forward we will see much more inclusivity.

0 (27m 20s):
I wanna talk about some of the rules that have existed for women in Hip Hop, and if they're changing, especially in this moment where we have so many women rappers kind of dominating. But it seemed like when women have been allowed to be a part of Hip hop and rap, there's been a certain script they've had to follow. They have to be co-signed by some male rapper. Oh gosh. Or some male led crew, and then they could be the only woman in that crew, and then they'd have to fight rumors that they slept with the crew to make it their entire career. I

18 (27m 54s):
Never fucked Wayne, I never fucked Drake or my life, man. Fuck sake.

0 (27m 59s):
And if they were good lyricists, the thinking would always be that some man was writing their lyrics for them. Mm. And on top of all of that, they had to be hot, dressed, sexy and dance. It was kind of wild. Like every woman in Hip hop had to do all of those things and still wouldn't be respected by the men of Hip hop. It. How much of that is still the case? Has it gotten better or what? Or, or worse? I don't know. Mm.

14 (28m 26s):
Yeah. I mean, I will say that it is unbelievable the standards that women are held to when compared to their, their male contemporaries. I, gosh, even just, you know, working in Hip hop media for as long as I have, I've, you know, been in offices where we've brought in artists of all kinds, and the men come in and they're, you know, they look how they look and they, they talk how they talk and it's like, all right, you're just here to be here. And then the women come in and they're pristine, they're dressed, they're wearing heels. Their, their makeup is on point. They're talking like they've been through a media machine. Like, it's so different. It's so markedly different the way that they have to present themselves.

14 (29m 6s):
So to your point about the history of women having to be attached to a man or a male crew, and then having to jump through all these hoops, additionally that I just thought about Lil Kim, I thought about Nicki Minaj, you know, two of the most championed women artists in Hip Hop. I thought about them and I thought about what must they have gone through that we don't even know. We just see the, the surface of, well, we just see the, the optics of it and we're like, Ooh, that must've been very hard to deal with. But there's probably so much more that, that they've never talked about. On top of that, I would say in current times, I feel like it's very exciting for me personally, just to kind of observe the way that women are coming into the fold.

14 (29m 48s):
You know, we have Scar Lipp who is getting co-signed by male artists, but not necessarily connected to a male crew fly on a boss. Oh Christ,

19 (29m 58s):
I'm not GaN I said I spice cinnamon synonym

14 (30m 9s):
Who are just running around and having a great time working with Missy Elliot already. So we have these, these new crops of characters who are Coming up and they're not having to necessarily be attached to these, these old antiquated tropes and these old ways of thinking and living and moving throughout the industry. So I think right now is probably the most excited I've been in a very long time when it comes to new artists and, you know, we don't even have to say new women artists or new female artists, like just new artists. I'm just super excited to see these women like picking up the baton and running with it. Literally.

0 (30m 46s):
Yeah. You know, I look at Hip Hop now and I see two big trends. All the men are like in a bad mood. Trevi Scott's in a bad mood, Drake's in a bad mood. The dude's in a bad mood. And the women are having fun. Cardi iss having fun, Megan's having fun. Nick is having fun. Doha iss having fun, and they're topping the charts. You know, their songs are getting all the radio play. And part of me wants to say, oh, this means the women have won. But I'm not sure, because when I look at what these women have to do, it's still so much more than the men. Yeah. Cardi B has to be a standup comedian on top of just rapping.

0 (31m 29s):
Yeah. Megan Thee stallion has to be the most beautiful woman in the world. Doja cat sings and dances and raps and is a weird girl. And is an art girl. Yes. And the boys just get to sit there and mumble. Oh

14 (31m 45s):
My gosh.

0 (31m 46s):
And so in that reality, should I say, look, the women won? Or should I say, damn, it's still not fair for the women.

14 (31m 56s):
Oh my God. I'm just like, you just kind of blew my mind. 'cause I'm like, on the one hand, yes, the women are winning and it's so much fun. Yeah. And I'm having the time of my life. Yeah. But it's also like, at what cost, like as you said, they're having to do so much and carry so many burdens, and maybe not even necessarily traditional burdens, but burdens nonetheless of having to, you know, outperform out, out, outlook out, rap out, this, that, and the third. Like, women have always had to do this, but I think now it's, it's probably just become so standard to us to see women accomplish and go leaps and bounds above everybody else, because that's what they've always had to do.

14 (32m 36s):
So I'm glad that you brought up that dichotomy of, you know, they're winning, but why are they winning? Like, is it because they have to go above and beyond and, you know, surpass everything that a man has ever done in this industry. And I feel like if women artists really did sit back and think about all that they do, they'd be like, man, why did I have to do this? Like they would Yeah. It's one of those things where it's like, you go mad If, you think too much about this specific topic. Oof. Yeah. And yeah, and we, we know that very well. So yeah. It's, it, it also reminds me of the, the saying within the black community, you know, you have to be twice as good to get half as much. That's even more the case for women rappers, especially black women rappers.

0 (33m 17s):
Yeah. Yeah. You know, in a recent profile in The Atlantic, one of Hip hop's biggest critics Dream Hampton, she was talking about all these prominent women in rap and Hip hop right now. And she's like, I'm not sure if all of it's great. Like, she talked about Cardi B. And she said, actually, Cardi B is incredibly conventional.

20 (33m 39s):
I don't cook, I don't clean. But lemme tell you, I I got this ring.

0 (33m 44s):
Like Cardi B is performing womanhood in service of a man. Mm. Her lover, her husband. And like a lot of what the most prominent women in Hip hop have to do is perform their womanhood and perform their fun for the male gaze. How true is that? Or are these actually women who are doing it for themselves and for other women?

14 (34m 8s):
I feel like women have always had to do what they have to do in order to make it. And if that means, you know, like a Trina working with a trick daddy And having to deal with all of his antics, I think about them. And I think about all the things that they've had to go through in order to get a voice and to, to be someone who can speak to the masses and change lives. When I think about all that, it just feels like a weight, you know, it feels like a weight on me to think about it. And if I'm feeling that way, I know it has to be a weight on them.

14 (34m 49s):
So for these artists to, you know, create music that speaks to their personal lifestyles, if Cardi B is in love and head over heels for her husband, then that's her way of life. You know, if she, if she truly feels that way, if it's all performative, then that's another story. But, you know, if that's how she feels and that's how she wants to relay her lifestyle, then who are me to judge? I am just one person. Yeah. But, you know, I do, I do understand where Dream Hampton is coming from. I do understand her very, very wealthy investment into Hip Hop and all the work that she has done. But at the same time, I do acknowledge that, like, when I hear Megan talking about shaking ass and twerking and like having fun with her body, you know, when I spoke to Megan the first time, she told me that she doesn't wanna rap about popping pills and killing people because that's not what she does.

14 (35m 39s):
Mm. Yeah. So, you know, so why can't she rap about what she likes to do? What

0 (35m 43s):
She likes to

14 (35m 44s):
Do? Yeah. Yeah. So that's, when I, when I hear conversations like that, that's what I think about. Totally. I think about the lifestyles that these women are living and their freedom to, to explain and to convey it and the way that they feel is accurate to them.

0 (35m 57s):
Yeah. You know, on the one hand, Hip Hop seems to be a better place for women now because you have artists like Cardi and Meghan and Doja succeeding, but the most prominent men in rap, they haven't been as supportive of women as you think they would be in 2023. When I think about Drake, probably the biggest rapper, male rapper of our current moment, seems like every few months he says something that's kind of patently offensive to women. Yeah. Whether it's about Serena, whether it's about Megan. He is not someone who seems to be feminist in his lyrics.

0 (36m 38s):
And then when I think about what Meghan went through, even getting shot by another male rapper, Tory Lanez, even as women ascend in Hip hop, the men aren't supporting them. Am I right to think that? And if so, what's up with that? Why? How

14 (36m 55s):
You're right. And it's very simple. They're haters. They, they, they can't, they can't, they cannot get over the fact that these women are having so much success Yeah. That they are, you know, ascending on their own. That they are touching lives in ways that they could only imagine. Mm. These men are, to put it, very frankly, they're boring compared to the women. And yes, I'm not afraid to say it because it's, it's, it's a fact in my opinion. It's true. It's, yeah. It's very, very true. So I think men are looking at, you know, these, these up and coming women artists, or these more established women artists, and they're seeing that they're connecting with their fans in the way that these men could never dream of.

14 (37m 38s):
And they're like, well, how do I get that? I know. I'll tear 'em down. And it's like, no, no, that's, that's not how that works. You just look like the supreme hater that you are. And yes. It's like, it's a certain kind of person who doesn't see that. And I, I'll leave it at that because it's just the misogynoir of it all. It's just clear as day that these artists, these male artists don't have a fiber of anything that is even equivalent to respect for women. Yeah. And that's, that's heard in their lyrics clearly. And it's heard in the way that they present women in their music videos and their little documentaries and stuff like that.

14 (38m 20s):
It's very clear that they don't, they don't have an iota of respect for women. And, you know, hearing them and seeing them do these kinds of tangential things when it comes to like, you know, writing lyrics about how women ain't this, that, or the third, and then seeing how they operate in spaces with women, or how they speak about women when they're at their concerts. Like Drake just, you know, had a moment, I think recently where he was like, oh, shout out to Meg. Oh, not that Meg, this Meg. Oh. And he's talking about somebody else shout out to

21 (38m 48s):
Meg one time girl, not that Meg, this Meg.

14 (38m 54s):
And it's like, was that even necessary? Like, come on dude, why are you taking Yeah. Why are you taking cheap shots as someone who is literally in the process of healing? So yeah. It just, it's it's all very frustrating.

0 (39m 5s):
Yeah. You know, what does it say about Hip Hop and whether it's going to move forward when it comes to how it treats women that Drake is still the biggest rapper in the country, in the world, in spite of historically and systemically being mean to women. He's never stopped being kind of an asshole to women. And yet Tour still sold out, still got number one albums, people still love him. What does that say about Hip Hop's fandom that Drake still gets to be a misogynist and win?

14 (39m 35s):
I think it says that we're in a stagnant place. Hmm. As much advancements and as much, you know, as much as we've moved ahead of certain, you know, things that have held us back in Hip hop, I do think that we are still very, very stuck in our ways. And, you know, I mean that in a, in a couple of different ways. For one, Drake has been top men in the industry since at least 2009. And other people have come and gone, but he's always kind of been in the top one to three. So I think it's a matter of Drake just being the, the option that's always been in front of us and the person that has had success.

14 (40m 15s):
So we're like, oh, well he must be doing something right. We'll just keep, you know, we'll, we'll keep supporting him. And it's like, well, that's boring. And then on the other hand, I don't know, I feel like it says quite a bit that people are not willing to really interrogate why they support Drake, why they support his music. I want us to really look at why we are saying that and why we feel that it's okay for him to be as big and as successful as he is, even though he is someone who is very blatantly been an asshole to women or been an asshole to queer people. Like, I love Koan who deserves so much more.

14 (40m 56s):
You know, we have all these examples littered behind Drake as he TRAs this forward into this, you know, this oblivion that we have no acknowledgement of. But yeah, it's, it's just very, it's, it's a conundrum. It really is.

0 (41m 11s):
Yeah. Yeah. You know, I keep thinking about how much things have changed but not changed. There's this review that Dream Hampton wrote back in 1996 of an NAS album and a Jay-Z album at the same time she reviewed it was written and reasonable doubt together. And in 96, she said, of the state of Hip Hop, that it was philosophically stuck on quote, hyper Capitalism numbness and cartoonist misogyny. And when I think of the most prominent male rappers of our day in 2023, they are still doing the same thing, even though we now have Cardi and Meghan and women in the fold.

0 (41m 57s):
Yeah. Knowing that, looking back on that, are you hopeful about the next 50 years of Hip hop? 'cause it feels like even though the women have risen to prominence, the men are still, let me say this nicely, shitheads.

14 (42m 16s):
I mean, just, you know, you pointing that out, that Dream Hampton double review from 96 and her kind of illustration of what she heard, that I can, I can think of 25 artists off the top of my head who are doing exactly that right now. Wow. It's very much still present. And I would hope, you know, and that's all I can do is hope and pray and wish that things will start to, to kind of turn a curve and start to evolve into this new thing, this new way of creating and bringing life to, to experiences that anybody can relate to. Yeah. I don't know how quickly that's going to happen, you know?

14 (42m 58s):
Yeah. Just from 1996 to 2023 and seeing the, the very stark similarities between what she saw then and what I'm seeing now, it's, it's very sobering to, to hear something like that and to realize that we have not come as far as we think we have.

0 (43m 19s):
Yeah. Yeah. You know what I want, what's that? Like, what will allow me to actually finally forgive Hip Hop for being so mean to women and queer people? I want all of the big pioneers of Hip hop to like rerecord their shitty verses. Mm. Like there's so many Jay-Z verses that I love, but are just full of bitch ho and faggot. Yeah. Like Polo Taylor Swift, rerecord it, make it nice. I'll love you forever. Yeah. That's what I want. That's not

14 (43m 48s):
So much to ask. I would love that. That would be incredible. I think that anything like that where it's just like a reevaluation or you know, just like a reconsideration of what has happened in the past and just acknowledging that like, oh, that wasn't cool. And a lot of people probably still love this. Maybe I should do something about it.

0 (44m 7s):
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I also hope that we just get fewer Drakes and more dozes. Yeah. Yeah.

14 (44m 13s):
That's really what I want. I would love that more dozes please.

0 (44m 17s):
More dozes. Thanks again to Kiana Fitzgerald who happens to also be from my hometown, Seguin, Texas. Go Matadors Kiana wrote a book called Owed to Hip Hop 50 albums that define 50 years of trailblazing music. Alright. Intuit is hosted by me, Sam Sanders. The show is produced by Janae West, Trevi Uck, Gabi Grossman, Jelani Carter, and Tka Zenin. Our fearless editor is Adrianna Homan, and we had editing help. This episode from Jolie Meyers, our engineer is Daniel Turk. Our music is composed by Breakmaster Cylinder and the executive producer of audio at Vox Media is Nisha Kwa.

0 (44m 59s):
Listeners, we are back on Thursday with a brand new episode. Until then, go listen to Doin Katt. Y'all know I love her. Okay, bye. Support for this podcast comes from Amazon Prime. The wait is over. Prime Big Deal Days are here for two days. Amazon Prime members can get even bigger discounts on tons of products, clothes, electronics, furniture, toys, you name it. Sign up for Prime now and enjoy the year-round perks of super fast shipping, exclusive entertainment and personalized recommendations, plus the extra savings of Big Deal Days only on October 10th and 11th.

0 (45m 47s):
Shop now at amazon.com/ Prime. Big deal Days.