1 (3s):
When 97.85% of members in the Writer's Guild of America voted to authorize a strike yesterday. People in Hollywood and people who watch Hollywood carefully were not shocked.

2 (14s):
You know, Hollywood executives, screenwriters, agents, pretty much everyone have seen a strike as inevitable four months now

1 (21s):
<unk> Hollywood writers say their pay and benefits haven't kept pace with the times, and that the rise of streaming has disadvantaged them even more. And if a deal is not met on or before May 1st, they'll stop work.

2 (32s):
There's always a chance that they reach a last minute deal, you know? But I would say a pretty small minority of my sources, maybe, you know, 10, 15% think that they'll be a deal before

1 (43s):
If there's not a deal. The last time a real strike happened was in 2007, and it did fundamentally change what we watch that's coming up on today explained.

3 (59s):
RuPaul's Drag Race champion Sasha Valor, says some of the weirdest drags she's ever done was influenced by the Lord of the rinks.

4 (1m 7s):
They did a transformation from like a glamorous 1950s ingenu to Gollum and did the lip sync with both Gollum and Sneel fighting. And then I performed Kate Bush, weathering Heights,

3 (1m 23s):
Sasha Valor on her new book and the history of drag This week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast,

1 (1m 39s):
It's today explained with about 12 days before the Writer's Guild and studios need to come to some sort of an agreement we called Lucas Shaw, who covers media and entertainment for Bloomberg. Lucas also writes a weekly newsletter called Screen Time Lucas. What do the writers want?

2 (1m 54s):
I mean, the simplest is obviously they wanna get paid more, right? That's what almost any labor dispute is about. The Guild argues that the average salary for their writers has declined over the last decade. If you adjust for inflation, it's down more than 20%. Oh, and more and more people are working for the minimum pay covered by the deal. Cuz the way a lot of this works, right, is that a writer in a room gets paid the minimum salary depending on what kind of work they do and their seniority and, and, and such. Here's

5 (2m 26s):
The deal, the offers scale, and if you stay on top of your tutoring duties, I will even consider letting you sit in on the rewrite. But if the answer's no, tell me now so we can move

6 (2m 33s):
On. Yes. I mean, if that's what the deal is, then yes, I don't even have to think about it.

2 (2m 38s):
Yes, a lot of people get paid or to kind of negotiate a more direct deal for more money. That's what happens with, you know, a really big writer, producer, or a showrunner when they sell a show, you know, they're not getting paid, whatever the minimum is, they're getting paid millions of dollars.

7 (2m 51s):
Ryan Murphy, the name behind Fox Hits, including American Horror Story. American Crime Story, glee going over to Netflix, reported deal five years, 300 million, and it starts July 1st.

2 (3m 5s):
But the average person on a show is, is generally getting paid whatever the minimum is. And they feel that that's, that's too low. There's also all sorts of work that they feel like they maybe don't get paid for. You know, writers have to pitch projects, do things like that. They don't, they often don't get paid for it. And there's just been a bunch of, of sort of new developments in large part due to this streaming boom that we've lived through, that have changed the way that they get paid that they feel have been to their disadvantaged. So

8 (3m 31s):
For example, the studios have this thing called mini rooms. Now mini room is paying writers to help them prepare to write a show versus actually right on the show. And that would be fine, except it's pretty much the exact same work and definitely the exact same amount of work except writers are paid less.

2 (3m 48s):
They don't like some of the limitations on what other projects they can work on. You know, they have, they have a long list of demands that they're trying to work through.

1 (3m 58s):
You said salaries adjusted for inflation went down. There is so much happening in tv, there's so much happening in film. How is that possible?

2 (4m 6s):
Well, if you think about how writers or how the TV business works, it used to be that your main goal was to be on a broadcast TV show.

10 (4m 16s):
Sometimes you wanna go where everybody knows your name.

2 (4m 21s):
The season's gonna run 20 plus episodes. It's probably gonna last for at least a few seasons, sometimes longer. That means that you're gonna get a chance maybe to write an episode or two, or at least you're gonna get trained and by say season three or four, you get to write it means you're probably gonna get some time on set. There's a whole apprenticeship model. If a show is successful enough and it gets licensed to someone else in what's called syndication, those reruns get reared by another network. You are gonna get a cut of that. If you wrote any episode, just TV felt stable and there was sort of more upside in it. In the case of success, now you have streaming services that are by and large making fewer episodes per season.

2 (5m 2s):
The shows don't last as long and they are taking just as long. And so again, you're doing kind of maybe the same amount of work, but the opportunity for getting paid for a credit for a show is less. And the odds are that you're just in general not getting paid as much as, as it seems like from the outside. Cuz I get your question, I, I've wondered this myself too. It, we've seen this massive expansion in the number of shows being produced, right? I think more than 500 scripted shows a year, but if you look at the total number of episodes, it's higher, but it's not as significant because the seasons are shorter and just the model for people getting paid is different. And so not everyone is benefiting. The people who have benefited the most from that are the people at the very top.

11 (5m 43s):
I write for a show called Abbott Elementary that's on abc, which is a traditional network, but the next day we're on Hulu and a little bit after that we're on HBO O Max and Disney Plus. So the amount for a rear on the, the network is $13,500. And the amount that you're paid for that episode being on new media streaming is $700.

1 (6m 8s):
The writers would seem to have a very rational and strong argument here. What are the studios saying in response? You

2 (6m 13s):
Know, the studios I think acknowledge that there are some issues that, that they need to deal with and they need to compensate the writers a bit more. But they'd also point out a few things. One is the fact that there's more getting made means that there are more writers who kind of get a chance than ever before. I don't know that this is gonna be their central talking point, but I think you could say that there are, you know, more female writers, more writers of color who've gotten opportunities over the last few years than they had previously. The bigger argument that they'd likely make is that streaming services now pay writers as though every show is a hit. One of the big changes in the model is, you know, Netflix came around and they said, we're gonna pay more upfront and not have to pay you on the backend because they buy out most of the rights to a show.

2 (6m 56s):
So there isn't that kind of syndication gravy train coming at the end and most shows are not hits. And so that does mean that a lot of people, you know, get paid more upfront or more for a show than they might otherwise have been paid. But, you know, perhaps most important, at least for the studios is that they're saying they're all suffering because Wall Street has sort of soured on these streaming services ever since early last year when Netflix reported a slowdown in its subscriber growth, you know, the stock for, for all these big companies have gone down,

12 (7m 27s):
Alright, been focused on shares of Warner Brothers discovery for some time. It's been a sad story if you own the

2 (7m 32s):
Stock. Pretty much every major entertainment company has fired staff and the last year has vowed to cut costs. We don't need to cry poor for these companies. They still are making a lot of profit, but their streaming services, these things they've spent a lot of money on are losing billions and billions of dollars. And so they say, you know, now is not the time to have to drastically change the model and pay writers a lot more money.

1 (7m 52s):
So if a strike does happen on or around May 1st, what does that mean for what we see like as a television consumer or a streaming consumer? What does this mean for my shows?

2 (8m 3s):
Well, the, the immediate impact will be limited to those that are constantly producing new episodes. So like a, the late night shows are some of the first to go off the air. Stephen Colbert, the Daily Show. Hmm. That's usually something that's hit very quickly. We'll see if those programs have sort of developed any contingencies for this scenario. Knowing what has happened before. For those who mostly stream their tv, I don't think they'd see an effect for, really for a while because streaming services tend to stockpile projects. So, you know, Netflix, we experienced this a little bit during the pandemic where for the first several months Netflix had plenty for people to watch. And it wasn't for sort of six or 12 months where we started to feel, oh maybe the, you know, maybe the slate's a little thin.

1 (8m 44s):
What is a popular TV show that people talk about now? And they say, look, if this goes on six months down the line, this really will mean something for XX show that everybody is really into right now.

2 (8m 54s):
Well think about about a show like Abbott Elementary, which is popular show on abc

13 (9m 0s):
Janine, that performance was on 0.0 and they say you Penn students can't stick.

14 (9m 7s):
Wait, who says that?

2 (9m 8s):
I tend to watch it on Hulu.

1 (9m 10s):
Same,

2 (9m 11s):
Those shows that are on broadcast, you know, the New Season's debut often in the fall or in the mid-season, what's, which is sort of January the writing on that happens in the months leading up to that and then continues during the course of that show. It's a little different from streaming where they often sort of get the whole project done months before it's supposed to be released. And so if this strike were to happen and if it were to drag on the chances of the next season of that show coming on kind of as expected would be significantly lower.

14 (9m 42s):
Most people think school starts when the kids get here, but it actually starts now at development week. Teachers prep for the year, we get ready, get our curriculum. It's the calm before the storm. It's very zen actually.

1 (9m 57s):
You know, here's a question I imagine some of the writers are asking themselves. There is a lot of TV out there, there's actually a lot of very good TV out there, including a lot that people just don't have time to get to. If we don't see new shows coming down the pipeline, are we really gonna be missing all that much? Or do you think consumers are likely to say, okay, there's no third season of Abbott a show that I truly love. I think I'm gonna go and watch back episodes of secession. Look,

2 (10m 23s):
I would welcome a few months to go back and catch up with all the shows I've missed. I keep a long list on my Apple Notes or on my iPhone notes of shows that I haven't watched that I'd like to at some point. I don't know that the average viewer thinks about it that way. I mean, by and large the most popular programs on streaming are new series, right? You know, more people are watching new episodes of the Night Agent on Netflix or the Mandalorian on Disney plus than they are anything old. This is the way, there are a few exceptions shows like Friends in the Office that people go back and watch a ton of

15 (10m 55s):
The product, the Ole My Son returns.

2 (10m 59s):
But look, there's no shortage of television for people to watch on these streaming services. And I think some of the studios, you know, to, to our earlier conversation about their response to the writer's demand, some of these studios would be more than happy to save money over a few months if they don't have to spend a bunch and just ask people to watch older programs

16 (11m 17s):
Seeing it bad, boring song on the plane. Rerun, rerun, ugh,

1 (11m 24s):
Okay, this is really interesting. So what you're saying is the studios are not gonna be thirsty for content. The writers presumably have money saved because they've been preparing for this and audiences have enough stuff to watch until they die. Who actually loses out here

2 (11m 39s):
While studios would be okay not having to spend a bunch of money for a couple of months because Wall Street is nervous about how much money they're losing on these streaming services. The best way to sign someone up to one of their streaming services is still to have something new, right? You know, HBO Max, which is about to relaunch as max in May. One of the things that they need to ensure that more people sign up for their service cause that's why they're doing it. They want more people to be using Max more frequently is they need fun hit shows, new hit shows for people to watch. And while they may have it for a little bit, if, if they don't have those later this year, that's the problem for them.

2 (12m 20s):
Now, in terms of other losers, there are a lot of people who work on television shows who would suffer. You know, the last time there was a writer Strike the economy in Los Angeles was estimated to lose more than 2 billion. You think about the number of shows being produced, the number of movies being produced, it's not just rich people arguing with rich people. There are, you know caterers, there are hairstylists, there are makeup artists, there are drivers and truckers and all these people built around the production. And it's really not just in Los Angeles either. The way that the production business has changed over the last several decades, you know, Atlanta is a major production hub. New Orleans is a major production hub. New York, Chicago, Vancouver, Toronto, North Carolina, certainly you know London.

2 (13m 2s):
Some other places that that may not feel up but do welcome American productions. And you have just a, you know, a lot of workers who've built up around those production hubs who would suddenly not have a job for a while and would have to find something else to do.

1 (13m 22s):
Coming up next, we're seeing lots of comparisons to the last big writer strike in 2007. We're gonna tell you how that one went down and how it changed and it did what's on your TV

17 (13m 40s):
Over the last few years. A big idea has taken root trees might be talking to each other,

0 (13m 48s):
Some

18 (13m 49s):
Call it the wood wide web, the wood wide web, the wood wide web.

17 (13m 53s):
And it's all happening underground.

19 (13m 56s):
Underground. There is this other world, a world of infinite biological pathways that connect trees and allow them to communicate and allow the forest to behave as though it's a single organism.

17 (14m 9s):
It's a beautiful image, but is it real?

4 (14m 13s):
Lots of people potentially are sort of getting this somewhat of a fantasy about how forests work rather than the true picture.

20 (14m 20s):
It's a welcome debate. We need to lean in and figure out what is actually happening

17 (14m 25s):
This week on Unexplainable. The story of the talking trees and the pushback. Follow unexplainable wherever you listen for new episodes. Every Wednesday,

21 (14m 39s):
Al Bruno ran the mob in Springfield, Massachusetts,

22 (14m 43s):
US growing up Italian and you want to be a Criminal. Bruno was the guy that we looked up to

21 (14m 48s):
Till he was gunned down in 2003,

23 (14m 52s):
Val Bruno just took about eight to the body at the Italian Club on Winthrop Street. I'm like, oh Jesus.

21 (14m 57s):
Bruno's murder was a mystery but also an opportunity. It was law enforcement's best shot at taking down the Springfield Mafia once and for all. I'm Ellie Honing host of Up Against the Mob, the Springfield crew. As a federal prosecutor, I took down over 100 mobsters, but nothing was as wild as what went down in Springfield.

24 (15m 24s):
Call my one one. I've been shot

21 (15m 26s):
To solve the case. We'd have to convince made men to break their code of silence.

2 (15m 32s):
You can't put your

21 (15m 33s):
Hands on 'em or you get killed. And as the dominoes started to fall, all of us just looked at each other like this case

2 (15m 39s):
Is blowing up,

21 (15m 40s):
Up against the mob, the Springfield crew from Cafe and the Vox Media podcast network following your listening app to hear all seven episodes out now.

25 (15m 53s):
Good people right now are out of work and it's, yeah, and possibly worse with all the late night shows off the air. Americans have been forced to read books and occasionally even speak to one another, which has been, which has been horrifying.

1 (16m 9s):
It's today explained. I'm Noelle King, we're back with Lucas Shaw of Bloomberg and of the screen time newsletter. Lucas, tell me about the last big strike.

2 (16m 18s):
So the writers went on strike in 2007. It lasted a hundred days. It, it stretched into 2008 and this was the last big labor unrest in Hollywood. We've seen some disputes and skirmishes since then, including this moment where, you know, writers fired their agents for a long period. But that was the strike that people remember vividly and sort of in part earned the writer's reputation for being kind of the most activist of the big Hollywood labor unions. You know, that was a different time in Hollywood. It was the very beginning of streaming 2007, 2008. That was the debut of Netflix's streaming service. It was the debut of Hulu, it was the debut of Amazon's streaming service.

2 (17m 4s):
It was so brand new and writers were as preoccupied with, you know, DVDs and getting paid from those as they were from this, you know, oncoming revolution in in pop culture.

26 (17m 17s):
Such a waste of talent. He chose money over power in this town. A mistake nearly everyone makes money is the McMansion in Sarasota that starts falling apart after 10 years. Power is the old stone building that stands for centuries. I cannot respect someone who doesn't see the difference.

1 (17m 37s):
What was the strike about in 2007? What were the issues then?

2 (17m 41s):
So part of it was had residual payments or or fees for those DVD sales. You know, you, you think back then DVDs, you moved more than, you know, a billion units a year. I think studios would make a couple hundred million dollars just from DVD sales for their biggest titles. And writers felt like they did not get enough of that money much as they now feel they don't get enough from streaming. There was also a lot of concern about the internet and making sure that they were adequately prepared for that. So at the time the, the Writer's Guild didn't have jurisdiction or power to negotiate over those. So that was one of the things that they were pushing for. And they also wanted to make sure that they were getting paid in some way for kind of internet transactions, internet streaming.

2 (18m 24s):
Because again, it was so new that they weren't really getting paid for any of that. What

1 (18m 28s):
Ended up happening, take me through it a little

2 (18m 30s):
Bit. Well there was a pretty long labor dispute where you had months of major writers petitioning at studios protesting. They

27 (18m 39s):
Know damn well they're in the wrong here. The logic would be obvious to a child. A novelist receives fair royalties for their books. A musician receives fair royalties for their songs. Screenwriters deserve fair royalties for their work.

2 (18m 53s):
You had a complete shutdown in production. You know, we talked about there was no late night television for a long time and there was a huge increase in reality tv you think back in the history of, of reality. Yes, there was the real world in the nineties and you know, survivor and Who Wants to Be a Millionaire came around around the turn of the century. But there was just a dramatic increase in reality TV produced coming out of that because that was one thing that these networks could put on the air. NBC created Celebrity Apprentice to spinoff of Of The Apprentice. I'm sure that's one of your favorite shows.

2 (19m 35s):
Big Brother came on the air. You think back there was actually a big labor dispute in the late eighties and that is part of what gave birth to cops. I'm sure another one of your favorite shows

0 (19m 50s):
Better Stop.

2 (19m 51s):
And so Strikes have, have historically been the cause of a, of a big increase in, in reality tv. And then they reached a deal in early January, but, but only after a lot of fighting back and forth. The writers mostly ended up kind of giving up some of their complaints on the, the DVDs, which in, in retrospect was okay. They did get some major gains on streaming just in getting the Writers Guild to have the jurisdiction to negotiate and also this structure for residuals or fees because one of the things for writers is, is not just getting paid up front but getting paid sort of in success and in relicensing

28 (20m 27s):
Observers say there was compromise on both sides, but the studios gave the most. And today a new contract was presented to writers first on the East Coast.

29 (20m 37s):
I believe it's a good deal. I am going to be recommending this deal to our membership.

1 (20m 41s):
What I hear you saying is the writers mostly won in 2007, is that right?

2 (20m 45s):
I think it was mixed. You know, they certainly got more concessions I think than they would have had they not struck. And that's what some members of the Guild are looking back on now as inspiration, cuz I do think there's some debate in the entertainment business over, you know, how effective these actions are when the writers had this fight with their agents a few years ago where they have ceremonially fired all their agents and only later did they reach a new deal. They were fighting over this thing called packaging, which had to do with how agencies kind of make money from their work. And I think there are a lot of writers who look back on that fight and wonder if they actually got everything they wanted out of it.

1 (21m 23s):
How did that agreement, what, what are we talking 16, 16 years ago, 15, 16 years ago, how did that shape the Hollywood that we have today? Did it,

2 (21m 32s):
First of all, it it shaped what people watch in that it did lead to this, this dramatic increase in the production and output of reality tv, which has, has only increased since then. You know, you look at, at Netflix and people were, you know, going crazy on Sunday evening because the live stream of the Love is Blind reunion did not function and love is blind and all these reality shows have become such a big draw even for Netflix and the Streaming leader, which started with normal dramas. It also, you know, it it set the, the pay scale for what we see today in streaming and, and how writers are compensated. And this has been, you know, an ongoing dispute I would say over the past decade between the creative community in, in Hollywood and the streaming services.

2 (22m 18s):
You know, when streaming services first came around, Netflix told people, we'll pay you a bunch of money up front. You get paid like it's this hit. And by the way, you don't have to worry about how successful it is. And I think everyone was, you know, kind of relieved by that, right? Cuz there was such pressure they felt if you had a show on broadcast to, to look at the ratings and people would wake up first thing Tuesday morning and say, oh, did my show hit a five seven or a five nine? And what does that mean? And, and Netflix absolved them of having to worry about that at all. But now that streaming has become kind of the primary way they realize that some of those models don't work so well for them. They want to know how their projects did and they want to get paid in success. You know, there's this feeling of information asymmetry, but they're now negotiating with a bunch of companies that have set the practice of not needing to disclose data.

2 (23m 3s):
And if you let companies get away with that, they're probably not gonna want to change the practice.

1 (23m 8s):
Are there any other similarities between 2007 and today? Well,

2 (23m 12s):
I think there's similarities in that the writers feel like they're not getting paid enough. That's the obvious one. There is a new technology that is similarly scaring people now as streaming did then in artificial intelligence. I don't know that AI is going to dramatically reshape the entertainment business as much as streaming did. It's, it's obviously too soon for us to know that there are some people who certainly think it will, if the central part of this negotiation is related to minimums and residuals and mini rooms and all these things that govern sort of the nuts and bolts of making a TV show and how writers are paid. Artificial intelligence is that other thing where they're gonna make sure there's some kind of clause in the deal, huh? That protects them.

2 (23m 53s):
Unless they view that as something they can kick down the road and get what they want on the core issue. Because that's, to me, one of the most interesting dynamics in this whole dispute is the writers are asking for a lot of different changes to the system and there's gonna have to be some compromise. That again, is a similarity last time where there were a lot of concerns about DVDs, also a lot of concerns about streaming. And in any negotiation, you just gotta pick and choose a little bit.

1 (24m 18s):
And it seems like the other big dynamic here is you almost wanna be able, if you're in the writer's position, you almost wanna be able to predict the future. I mean, even two years ago, we as a, as humanity, were not worried about AI the way we are now. And so if you lock in changes for a set period of time, well in six months those changes could be outdated.

2 (24m 37s):
Yeah, you're absolutely right. Look back to the deal that they struck in, in oh 7, 0 8. The residuals that the writers receive for streaming, which is sort of paid for a project getting re-air, they get paid for, you know, how, how long a show is on or, or how or how recently it was on and, and how many episodes, but they don't really get paid for how many viewers it has or anything related to the success of a show. They just, some of it I'm sure they anticipated and couldn't get, and some of it, they, they failed to anticipate just how much it would change. And that's always the tricky thing with these is you wanna negotiate a deal that gives you some, some wiggle room going forward, or you have to, you know, you end up striking 15 years later.

1 (25m 35s):
Today's episode was produced by Hottie Modi and edited by Matthew Collette. It was fact Checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Patrick Boyd. I'm Will King, it's today explained.