1 (1s):
Something strange is happening in Hollywood. I'm not talking about that guy that got to host the Golden Globe. Yo,

2 (8s):
I got the gig 10

1 (9s):
Days ago. I'm talking about the secret musicals.

0 (13s):
What's that? The Lord. It's the Queen Bee

2 (14s):
Regina George. Don't look her in the hot.

0 (18s):
You can be really hot. You change like everything.

1 (22s):
A new Mean Girls movie comes out today. It promises it is not Your Mother's Mean Girls, which rude. But also, what does that mean? The trailer never tells you. But check out this footage from a recent screening that audience groaning when not Lindsay Lowen, Katie Heron starts singing. They're bummed because they didn't want a musical. They didn't necessarily know they were getting a musical, but they got a musical. And it's not just Mean Girls. Why Hollywood is hiding. Its musicals coming up on today. Explain.

Unexplainable podcast (57s):
Never Make me feel so stupid This week. Unexplainable. Can scientists save the rainforest by listening to it? Here we go. Well, this is not gonna work. It's in the day. Got it, got it, got it. 20 birds. Let me see if there's anything from the night that's a poison frog. Wait, wait, wait. Where the, I don't. Okay, that's a poison frog. How to make a stethoscope for the rainforest. That's an unexplainable this week. Follow for new episodes every Wednesday.

0 (1m 36s):
It's today.

1 (1m 43s):
Ben Lindbergh is a senior editor at The Ringer, where he recently wrote a piece of investigative journalism about the American film industry.

4 (1m 50s):
Yes, there is a coverup occurring. Hollywood is hiding. Its musicals.

2 (1m 58s):
They're not telling

4 (1m 59s):
Anyone. The actual music has been absent from trailers for some of the most prominent movie musicals of the past year.

2 (2m 8s):
Hollywood is hiding the actors who are singing.

4 (2m 14s):
I think the main ones that people have taken note of was Wonka really

1 (2m 19s):
Mean Girls

4 (2m 20s):
Regina. And to some extent, the Color Purple, at least in its initial trailer. These are all very much moving musicals. They do not hide the music once you are in the theater. But the trailers for these films really obscured the fact that there was music in the movies themselves, which started some conversation among some people who were in the know, as word of mouth went around, Hey, you know, this is a musical, right? Weather

2 (2m 49s):
Is producing. Why you hiding my singing?

4 (2m 55s):
People kind of did a double take. I did not know that I saw the trailer. Nothing in the, the trailer told me that these were musicals.

5 (3m 1s):
I wanna sing. I wanna sing again. There's

4 (3m 6s):
Been multiple rounds, I think, of people coming across this secret hidden knowledge that these are actually movie musicals.

5 (3m 13s):
Let me sing because I, I'm a star

1 (3m 22s):
And I too saw all the initial trailers for those three offending movies you mentioned. So let's just go through them one by one and tell people, if you watch these trailers, what you would see or what you would think. Starting with Wonka

4 (3m 35s):
Just about no music. As I recall, there were multiple trailers, but really no sign whatsoever other than Hugh Grant's, upa, Lumpa, maybe singing in the second one. An Uma.

5 (3m 45s):
What? Now allow me to refresh your memory.

6 (3m 48s):
Oh, I don't think I wanna hear

4 (3m 50s):
That. And you know, you would think that if you've seen the original Charlie in the Chara Factory or even the remake, you know that there's some music in a Willy Wonka movie.

7 (3m 59s):
Come with me and you'll be in a world of pure imagination and you'll see into your imagination.

4 (4m 14s):
But they are doing their best to hide that here. And the movie doesn't hide it, you know? you know, basically as soon as the movie starts, okay, there's gonna be singing in this thing.

5 (4m 23s):
If you want a view paradise, simply look around and view it. Anything you wanna do it wanna change the world. There's nothing to it.

4 (4m 42s):
But from the trailer, you really would not be able to guess that whatsoever. The baseball writer Craig Calcaterra in his newsletter wrote about my piece because he went to see Wonka and in his theater, there was a man who as soon as Chal May opened his mouth to sing the first song, just let out an audible. Oh no. Oh,

6 (5m 3s):
I don't think I wanna hear that.

4 (5m 5s):
Which just goes to show that there really are people out there in the wild who do not know that these are movie musicals, and in some cases may be disappointed. So I suppose that backs up the strategy.

1 (5m 17s):
Okay, next up, let's talk about the Color Purple, which I believe was based not only on the original source material, but also on the Broadway musical of the Color Purple.

4 (5m 28s):
Right? That's right. Very successful Broadway musical with multiple runs. And the first trailer for the Color Purple promised that it would be a bold new take on the Beloved Classic, but did not specify what made it bold or what made it new, which is the fact that it's a musical, a successful musical. You'd think that they'd wanna play that up.

1 (5m 49s):
So they're basically telling you we're doing the musical without saying we're doing the musical.

4 (5m 53s):
Right. In fact, the trailer mentions that it's based on the 1982 novel, but it does not mention that it's adapted from a Tony winning Broadway play, which seems like something you would wanna brag about

5 (6m 5s):
Sweet

8 (6m 6s):
And love and God.

1 (6m 22s):
And lastly, because it comes out today, let's close out this trend with the New Mean Girls movie, which I'm sure a lot of people are wondering why there is a New Mean Girls movie.

4 (6m 32s):
Yes. That is so Fetch,

9 (6m 35s):
Gretchen, stop trying to make Fetch happen. It's not going to happen.

4 (6m 39s):
One reason why there's a New Mean Girls movie is it's a musical, which again, you would not know and probably would not even suspect from the trailer.

10 (6m 49s):
Why are you dressed so scary? It's Halloween, Katie, if you don't dress slutty, that is slut shaming us.

5 (6m 54s):
That's just unprofessional.

4 (6m 56s):
Now, I think there's sort of a a tell, which is that if you went to the theater to see Taylor Swift's eras tour movie, there was a special theatrical trailer for Mean Girls, which did highlight the fact that it's a musical. My

11 (7m 10s):
Name is.

4 (7m 17s):
So if you're in the theater to see something with music, then they will disclose that there's music in this movie. But if not, if you're not already in that audience, then they're just not gonna tell you. And you will just wonder why are they remaking this thing? It's not even that old. And you will just be in the dark until someone lets you know, or you go see it. Well,

8 (7m 37s):
The NY City Critics Association just sent me this best actress in a movie based on a musical, based on a movie. Hey,

5 (7m 44s):
That's great.

1 (7m 45s):
And why Ben? Why are they doing this?

4 (7m 47s):
Musicals have not done well lately. They have not made much money in theaters, and they have not garnered great audiences on streaming. Now, you don't have to go into the distant past to find very successful movie musicals, whether it's La La Land or The Greatest Showman. These are award-winning and nominated movies and movies that made a lot of money ultimately. Or Hamilton, of course, which was an enormous streaming sensation when it came out on Disney plus,

5 (8m 28s):
Disney. Won't You Love Me again?

4 (8m 33s):
But since then, things have changed. And in fact, the industry really invested in movie musicals Post Hamilton. There was sort of a production boom, inspired perhaps by Hamilton.

12 (8m 47s):
This is when I get sad.

4 (8m 50s):
But almost everything that has surfaced since has flopped to some extent. And so there's been a quick correction here as Hollywood has pivoted to wait. Maybe people don't want to see movie musicals, or at least they don't want to be told that they're about to see a movie musical. And so I think that's what's driving this trend.

5 (9m 8s):
I know

1 (9m 13s):
Who are the floppers, who are the main offenders here.

4 (9m 16s):
So some of the more prominent ones would be West Side Story by Steven Spielberg or Lin Manuel Mirandas in The Heights.

13 (9m 34s):
I am vie, you probably never heard my name reports, some of fame are greatly exaggerated, exacerbated

4 (9m 41s):
By the, there are others that are a little less prominent. Dear Evan Hanssen, have you

5 (9m 46s):
Ever felt like nobody was there?

4 (9m 50s):
Everybody's talking about Jamie,

5 (9m 52s):
I'm

14 (9m 52s):
A superstar, and you don't even know it in a Wonder Bra, and you don't even know it yourself, blah blah. And you don't even know it. I'm like, and you don't even know it.

4 (10m 1s):
Not enough people were talking about Jamie. As it turned out, of course, there was Cats, the pre pandemic, notable movie musical bomb

5 (10m 15s):
In the, I Can Smile

4 (10m 20s):
At Me. And then there were a bunch of movies that came out maybe on streaming and just didn't do well based on what we can tell from streaming charts

15 (10m 34s):
Before Truth Gets

4 (10m 39s):
Tick, tick, boom and a week away. And Diana, the musical all on Netflix or Annette on Prime Video,

5 (10m 46s):
We love each other

4 (10m 53s):
Or Come From Away and High School Musical, the musical, the series, another mouthful, which are on Apple TV plus and Disney plus respectively. So a lot of these just seem to be misses. Again, maybe the market was oversaturated. Maybe they overinvested in the wake of Hamilton. It's kind of a copycat industry. But most of these movies just failed to break through. Granted, of course, there was The Pandemic, which certainly hurt the movies that were released in theaters. But even the ones that have come out since, or that came out on streaming only just haven't done well lately.

1 (11m 29s):
Do we think Wonka and Mean Girls and The Color Purple, which were both based on the Broadway musicals of those stories were greenlit in this era, this post Hamilton era, where everyone was drunk on musicals.

4 (11m 42s):
It could be partly that I think in some of these cases though, these are based on established ip, right? So you might wonder, well, if they're going out of their way to hide the fact that these are musicals, why are they even making musicals? Right? Exactly.

1 (11m 55s):
It feels like a paradox. Yes. Like you could like nip this in the bud by just not green lighting musicals.

4 (11m 59s):
Exactly. And we might not see as many movie musicals made in the near future, but these are based on established properties, right? People know Wonka, they know mean girls. They know the color purple in one incarnation or another. And just as in any genre, it's easier to get things green lit these days when you can point to this is a recognizable brand, or this previous version of this thing made X amount of money. Right? So I think these are sort of exceptions in a sense. And maybe what is going away or what will go away is the less recognizable movie musical. Mm. The one that doesn't have some established source material.

4 (12m 42s):
I talked to a lot of movie marketing people and trailer production people, and they said that the goal of the trailer is just to get people in the seats. There are some people who would be attracted by a trailer that makes it explicit. This is a movie musical. But there are maybe more people who would be repelled by that, or at least would not think that they want to see a movie musical. And so the best thing to do the studios have concluded for now is just to omit that fact, right? So is not to turn anyone off. And so they hope that if you are a movie musical fan, you'll find out some other way that it's a movie musical and you'll show up.

4 (13m 22s):
And if you're not, then yeah, you know, they're trying to trick you in hopefully not the most nefarious way, but they're trying to get you to go see the movie by any means necessary.

16 (13m 50s):
TIAA is on a mission. Why? Because 54% of black Americans don't have enough savings to retire. So in collaboration with big name artists like Wyclef Jean, TIAA released paper, Wright New Music, inspiring a new financial future with 100% of streaming sales, going to a nonprofit that teaches students how to invest stream paper right now and help close the gap.

17 (14m 18s):
This is Andre iga with my man, Evan Turner, your favorite former NBA players, bringing

18 (14m 24s):
You the truth, the realness

17 (14m 26s):
We're talking about. What the hell is going on in the bay?

18 (14m 29s):
It's like, yo, we don't have room for air anymore. We an older, older, older. Now, I don't blame any part of Steph relying on the dudes that built a dynasty with 'em and went to war with 'em at all. Now that goes down to the front office or the coaches.

17 (14m 45s):
And our guest on the pod this week is the one and only ice tray, Trey Young, who has been going crazy, crazy, crazy, crazy for Atlanta this year. Subscribe to Point Forward the podcast, dropping every Wednesday

5 (15m 8s):
Up today

1 (15m 9s):
Explained. Let's talk about people who hate musicals. Why do people hate musicals?

19 (15m 15s):
I don't know if hate is the right word.

1 (15m 18s):
Oh, professor, hate is the right word.

5 (15m 25s):
Find what the trolley.

19 (15m 31s):
I just think they are not drawn to musicals. And I think that musicals have lost their connection to popular culture, particularly popular music in the thirties and forties. During the Depression and World War II musicals were extremely popular and studios made many of them. And they were one of the main ways along with radio that popular music was disseminated. So lots of hit songs came from musicals. Big bands were featured in musicals. Popular dances were featured in musicals.

19 (16m 14s):
And with the fifties and the advent of rock and roll that began to shift,

1 (16m 31s):
Stephen Cohan is a professor emeritus at Syracuse University. He's written multiple books about movies, musicals and movie musicals. He's the kind of guy when you're like, what's up with this new trend? Hollywood's hiding. Its musicals. He'll be all

19 (16m 46s):
It is not new. It's been going on since 2007, I think. Huh? I, I know Sweeney Todd disguised the fact that it was musicals. But if you, I don't think The Greatest Showman advertise it. It was a musical. If you look at trailers for musicals, I don't think many of them, if at any advertise that they're musicals, studios advertise to their desired demographic. And just because the studios think people don't like musicals don't mean that people don't like musicals. I do think that there are certain gender divisions.

19 (17m 28s):
Now I'm gonna make a simplification. When I would teach the musical, the majority of students in my class tended to be women. And then there'd be a handful of guys. And they all loved musicals. Some of it was because of Broadway. And some of it had to do with familial associations because of watching musicals with a grandparent, or events like watching the Sound of Music for a slightly older generation when it would air on TV with a, as a family event. And I think associations from childhood can be very powerful in terms of people's tastes. So I, I think it's fair to say that the studios think that people don't like musicals.

19 (18m 15s):
The other thing is that a convention of trailers these days is to give as much of the plot as they can. Yeah. Songs are harder to excerpt in a way that indicates a plot when musicals were a mainstay of studio production. And so a studio like MGM or Fox were, were churning out eight or nine musicals a year. In the forties. They would advertise the number of new songs, the various performers, and they would have little clips of performances. They were not interested or focused on advertising a narrative. But these days the trailers advertise a narrative.

19 (18m 57s):
And so I think there's that industrial reason, just the convention of a trailer. But I agree, I think that the studios think that audiences will not rush to see a musical.

1 (19m 9s):
And And why do you think that is?

19 (19m 11s):
I think there's probably many reasons. People aren't used to watching musicals. They are not accustomed to the break in the illusionism of a musical. Mm. When someone will burst into song and you hear an orchestra. Whereas when musicals were produced in large numbers, audiences were used to and accepted a break from the illusionism of the narrative and the heightened sensibility, the heightened utopian experience of watching someone dance in the streets or sing their heart out.

19 (19m 52s):
I also think there is a lingering association of musicals with a queer following

20 (20m 2s):
Show. Should be more pretty show, should be more witty. Show should be more, what's the word, gay. Exactly.

19 (20m 13s):
So that it makes some people uncomfortable. But I, I think the main reason has to do with just not knowing how to watch a musical

1 (20m 22s):
D Does it break your heart a little bit that audiences ha have fallen out of practice with musicals?

19 (20m 29s):
I think it used to, but not anymore. Hmm. I mean, for one reason, I have a lot of musicals on the Blu-Ray, so I can still watch them.

1 (20m 41s):
You know, I, I think you and I may not see eye to eye on the haters out there, but I do feel like in my personal experience, I have heard many a friend and acquaintance say, oh, I don't want to go see that. I hate musicals. But, but I will agree with you that I don't think that person necessarily hates musicals. I think that person has maybe seen a character jump into song and rolled their eyes and said, oh, I don't think I wanna hear that. What would you say to them to maybe help change their mind?

19 (21m 14s):
I'd say go see Aquaman.

22 (21m 19s):
My dad's from the Land. My mom's from the Sea. I'm Atlanta. Atlantis is true King.

19 (21m 27s):
Okay. I know, I, I know that I, I I know the kind of of viewer you're talking about. And if you're gonna talk about people hating musicals, then there's something really profoundly disturbing about the musical as a, I think that's much, much more deep seated and psychological than simply, than, than simply not accepting someone bursting into song. I mean, I, I've taught musicals to, in, in general in, in introduction courses and also in courses on the musical. And I've seen students laugh uncomfortably when someone bursts into song because they're not used to it.

19 (22m 12s):
And it's unexpected. But I think that when someone says, I hate musicals, it's because of what a musical represents to them. That is so disturbing. That's why I think that, that there's still a lingering association of otherness with musicals.

1 (22m 30s):
So this is interesting. It sounds like you're saying at the heart of this matter is people might think, oh, musicals are kind of queer. That's not me. Musicals are about white people. That's not me. Is there a musical out there that sort of transcends those stigmas maybe and, and can be sort of enjoyed by one and all? I

19 (22m 54s):
Think if, if anything, it would be the musical, the film version of Hairspray. It had a multiracial cast. It was about popular music. It had drag. It's well done. It had people of size. It defied authority. It was anti-authority.

1 (23m 19s):
The film version of Hairspray, that's the one where like John John Travolta and Christopher Walkin, they like slow dance on the rooftop and it's movie magic. Yeah.

19 (23m 30s):
And Michelle Pfeiffer,

1 (23m 32s):
Queen Latifah. That's

19 (23m 33s):
Right. It's derived from John Waters Hairspray, which is a, a really good film that's a musical. And both of them are about the advent of rock and roll as youth music in the fifties and the integration of what was a sort of pseudo version of American Bandstand,

1 (24m 5s):
Professor Steven Cohan. You might remember him from masculinity in the movies in the fifties. Hollywood musicals, the film Reader, incongruous Entertainment Camp, cultural Value, and the MGM musical or the Sound of musicals. Haddi Mawajdeh was the star of this production. The supporting cast includes Matthew Collette, Laura Bullard and Rob Byers. Noam Hassenfeld played the musical. The rest of the ensemble includes Noel King, Amina Aldi, Avishai Artsy, Victoria Chamberlain, Amanda l Ellen Miles, Bryan Halima Shaw, and Patrick Boyd. Miranda Kennedy's our executive producer.

1 (24m 45s):
We did not use any music by Breakmaster Cylinder, but sometimes we do. Today. Explained is distributed by wnyc. The show is a part of Vox, which is totally free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners. Join us at Vox dot com slash give. Thank you. We are off Monday for Martin Luther King. Junior Day. It's a day of service. Do something nice for somebody more today, explained on Tuesday.

2 (25m 7s):
You can't stop my happiness 'cause I like the way I am and you just can't stop my life. And for when I see a Christmas Am So if you don't like the way I, I just don't give a damn. And the she can shake up.

2 (25m 57s):
You.