Into It: A Vulture Podcast with Sam Sanders (1s):
Hey, it's Sean. It's Saturday. Before I started my weekend, I wanted to let you know that we have something special for you today. It's Intuit a vulture podcast with Sam Sanders. If you don't know vulture, it is the authoritative place to go online to find out about what's happening in popular culture. Right now. They're also really good on what was happening in popular culture years ago. They're great on nostalgia and now they have a companion podcast hosted by the one and only Sam Sanders, Noel. And I actually help Sam kick off this episode. So you're gonna hear from us, but then you're gonna hear a really interesting conversation that quite frankly, I don't think you're gonna hear anywhere else about how exactly Hollywood works, especially when it comes to intellectual property and milking intellectual property to death. I found it fascinating. I hope you enjoy it too. If you do subscribe to into it wherever you listen,

2 (1m 8s):
I do wanna say I got dressed up for y'all today. I wore my new favorite shirt. Aw, it's my Katy Perry, California girl's shirt. I went to see her in Vegas this weekend. Stunning, stunning her show. Her show was Quaalude fever dream.

0 (1m 23s):
Hey, Hey, I'm Sam Sanders and you are listening to Intuit from vulture and New York magazine. And one day we will get Katie Perry on this show. I have the t-shirt. I went to the concert. It was a good seat. It's gonna happen. But until that time comes, who's favorite to win. Definitely Noel,

1 (1m 50s):
Sean,

2 (1m 51s):
I have Sean Rambo and Noel king.

3 (1m 54s):
Sean knows I've been studying for the game.

2 (1m 57s):
You've been, of course, you know, Noel is a study. Noel has valedictorian vibes, valedictorian vibes. We love it. She really does. Before we start the exam, can I have you both write your full names on the Scantron? Tell our listeners who you are.

0 (2m 12s):
Sean Rams firm. One of two hosts of today explained

3 (2m 16s):
Noelle king. The second of two hosts of today explained

2 (2m 20s):
I don't do second or first. Sean are both co-lead singers in the that's band. That's right.

0 (2m 24s):
We're the hall notes of daily news

2 (2m 26s):
Podcasting or who was the other one? Ashford and Simpson

3 (2m 30s):
Solid, solid,

2 (2m 31s):
Solid that's them. And that's, y'all solid as a rock, solid

1 (2m 34s):
A

2 (2m 34s):
Rock. I said it. I feel like both of you have played games about the news with me before, but this is a new game and it's different. I'm gonna tell you real quickly what it is. It's a game that we're calling here on Intuit into it, not into it. I mention a recent headline and the two of you tell me whether you're into it or you're not into it. And at the end of this game, I will award points and choose a winner based on how much I like your opinion.

3 (3m 8s):
You got this, Sean, thank

0 (3m 10s):
You. I'm rooting for Noel.

2 (3m 13s):
With that. Let's get into it are either of you into a new Selena album, which features 10, never before vocal tracks from Selena that have been digitally altered to make her sound older.

3 (3m 32s):
Not into it, not into it. Is that mean

2 (3m 35s):
It's not me, Sean. What about

0 (3m 36s):
You? I hard pass. I don't is anyone else even clamoring for this? Who's this for? Who's the intended audience. Can't we just let Selena

2 (3m 43s):
Tell you B I am a south Texan who is a big Selena fan. And one of my favorite films of all time is the Selena biopic, starring JLo. And even I don't want new digitally altered, Selena vocals,

3 (3m 59s):
Let her

2 (3m 59s):
Rest. So apparently the backstory and this is all approved by someone's estate and her family and her widow, their estate is gonna release tracks with some vocals that she recorded when she was between the agents of 13 and 16. But they want to make her voice sound quote a little bit more mature. So they're gonna digitally lower her vocals to make it sound like she wasn't 13 when she's sang these songs, it's giving Tupac hologram vibes. I didn't like that either. Yeah.

3 (4m 31s):
The

0 (4m 31s):
Tupac hologram, I feel like of all the iterations of let's resuscitate someone who's been dead for years. The Tupac hologram seems a little more respectful than something like this, where you're just trying to recreate something that sort of wasn't there.

2 (4m 45s):
Which artist would you allow to be resurrected?

3 (4m 49s):
Is Willie Nelson dead yet? Joking. He's on you. The one who told was a joke. That was a joke. Oh, my

2 (5m 1s):
Next question. It's a, it's a three parter. First part of this question. Are we into or not into shaggy?

0 (5m 10s):
Shaggy

2 (5m 11s):
SHA the singer. It wasn't me shaggy. Shaggy.

0 (5m 14s):
What did shaggy do? What

3 (5m 16s):
He do?

2 (5m 17s):
I just a first

3 (5m 18s):
Answer the question. Are

2 (5m 19s):
You or are you not into shaggy as an idea?

0 (5m 21s):
Isn't shaggy veteran. Yes. I think I'm pro

3 (5m 23s):
Shaggy. I'm pro shaggy. Okay. If he hasn't done anything terrible, if you're about to update me

0 (5m 27s):
With something hideous,

3 (5m 28s):
It's

2 (5m 28s):
The triple update. You wait for it. Second question. Are we into sting? This singer?

3 (5m 35s):
He had his time. He has his talent.

2 (5m 39s):
Wow. Desert rose

0 (5m 42s):
Was a bot I'm words

3 (5m 44s):
Was a bot

0 (5m 45s):
I'm into what sting did for tantric sex. I still don't quite know what Tantrix sex is, but I know sting did a lot for it. Oh, wait. Did shaggy wait a second. I think I know from a tiny desk concert that shaggy and sting did a thing together.

2 (6m 1s):
Well, here's the thing. After that first honey desk concert, there's been more sting and shaggy content and quiet as it's kept just this may, this duo released a new album and it is a sting produced reggae album of shaggy singing covers of jazz standards. Like come fly with me and luck. Be a lady,

4 (6m 25s):
Be a lady tonight.

3 (6m 28s):
I am so into this.

2 (6m 30s):
So shaggy and sting began to collaborate after they were on tour together years ago. But a while back sting told shaggy, Hey, I kind of feel like you have the same vocal range as Frank Sinatra. Shaggy's like, nah, dog, look at me. And sting was like, yes you do. And it took a few drinks to convince shaggy that this album of shaggy reggae jazz standard covers could work, but it's here now. Wow. And it's shaggy doing Sinatra. Wow. Just, yeah,

3 (7m 3s):
I was hanging on every word you guys are musical, you know, I'm not, does shaggy have the same vocal range as Sinatra?

2 (7m 11s):
I mean, there's a difference between vocal range and vocal talent. I hate to say

4 (7m 18s):
Mommy, me to the

2 (7m 19s):
Movie. I don't think it works. And when I see the two of them together, they love each other. They have fun together. What I want for them is like a buddy comedy movie. Oh, more than I want an album from them. Yeah. Right.

0 (7m 31s):
I would definitely see that, but it sounds like somebody should call the police.

3 (7m 37s):
Oh,

0 (7m 39s):
Well

2 (7m 40s):
It won't be me. All right. The game is tied. This last question for all the marbles. Here we go are y'all into or not into HBO. Max taking TV shows and movies off its platform without telling viewers like you and me.

3 (8m 0s):
Okay.

0 (8m 1s):
I know. I have to think about this one. Cuz HBO, max is the only one of the things that I actually pay for. So I'm gonna, I'm gonna take a moment here to ponder.

2 (8m 10s):
Okay. I will tell you all the list of things that have been taken down so far and alright, Amy Amsterdam, an American pickle charm city Keens. Check it out as in check Republic, final space, full bloom here and now locked down starring and Hathaway moonshot. Mrs. Fletcher vinyl and the witches remake also starring and Hathaway. Oh,

3 (8m 37s):
Now I'm good with what HBO did. I think I'm okay here having so

2 (8m 40s):
You hate Anne Hathaway.

3 (8m 42s):
Wow. She is gorgeous and talented and I

2 (8m 46s):
Will great gowns. Beautiful gowns

3 (8m 48s):
Check. What is the, I would watch the check thing I think, but nothing else on there. They're not removing game of Thrones.

2 (8m 55s):
There you go.

0 (8m 55s):
Exactly. Yeah. It sounds like they were moving things that you didn't realize or remember existed to begin with.

2 (9m 1s):
Yes. So then while you're okay with this, Sean, what do I mean? I'm okay with

0 (9m 4s):
This. Yeah. Well I will say this. I will say this. The trailer for American pickle looked really good of all of those movies you named. That is the only movie I set aside, time to watch and it was disappointing and all the good parts were in the trailer as so often happens. So I will say good writtens to all these things. I'm into HBO, max taking garbage off the platform.

2 (9m 26s):
Okay. I will say my favorite version of HBO max is every few months a new series featuring a prestige actress over 45. Doing bad things. Yes. Yes. That's my favorite category on that note, I've gotta determine a winner of this game. Good luck. And it shall be determined by a tiebreaker. Oh wow. Damn. And the tiebreaker is which of you will have the best review of this shaggy jazz classic. I'm gonna play for you now.

1 (9m 59s):
Come fly with me. Let's fly. Let's fly. I

3 (10m 7s):
Would resurrect Frank Sinatra changing my original answer

2 (10m 11s):
Just to see his face. Yes. Yes. Sean, can you beat that? I don't think you could beat

0 (10m 22s):
That. Don't beat that either. I would. I would just ditto. So I, I, I capitulate the well you win. Sorry.

2 (10m 29s):
Thought you win.

0 (10m 29s):
It's you

2 (10m 30s):
Do it. We win Simpson. We are Ashford and Simpson. We both win. Solid has a rock salad as a rock. Oh, I love it. I love it. Noel. You won. But emotionally and spiritually, we all did. Thank you both for being here. I love it. This is delightful.

0 (10m 47s):
Thank you,

2 (10m 49s):
Dear listeners, you can catch Noel and Sean, five times a week with their daily news podcast called today, explained and as a special treat, you can probably also hear it on a public radio station near you. It's good. Go check it out. I'm shaggy. I can't nevermind. So after stranger things finishes its fifth season, which maybe doesn't even need to exist. There's also gonna be a stranger things stage play, and there's gonna be a stranger things, spinoff series as well.

2 (11m 36s):
And you know what? I am irrationally annoyed by this because I think it represents a not so good trend in TV and movies, the biggest hits and names and brands. There's this increasing pressure to keep those things going no matter what adventures, you know, everything Marvel game of Thrones, which is getting prequel, the Lord of the rings. They're making more of that star wars, which truly never ends. It feels like that kind of stuff is sucking all the money and energy and attention out of the room to the detriment of newer and smaller ideas.

2 (12m 19s):
I wanted to talk about this with someone who I thought would also be mad about this. So I called up Damon Linda off, you know, Damon is one of the guys behind lost. He also did the leftovers and that amazing single season of Watchman on HBO and Damon has a rep for knowing when and how to end things and how to fight against that urge to let some things go on too long. I mean, he didn't just do one season of Watchman. He also cut that show down to nine episodes from 10 while filming the show. But I was surprised in our chat. Damon was not nearly as pessimistic as I am about this extension of big TV and movie mega brands.

2 (13m 3s):
In fact, Damon kind of cheered me up. So here's our chat about making art in a media world full of Goliaths and maybe too few Davids. I have brought you here for a very particular kind of conversation. I wanna talk with you about how to say no in Hollywood, because it seems that whenever something works on screen, there is more pressure than ever before to keep it going or bring it back from the dead or revive it or make a sequel or a prequel or do a spinoff or make a new multiverse to make the world even bigger. Hmm. Do you think it's harder than ever when a TV idea or a film idea works to say no to just keeping it going forever

5 (13m 48s):
Harder than ever. It's always gonna be hard because once you've got someone's attention, you want to keep it. And so the idea of letting it go and not knowing if you're ever gonna get it back again is sort of like it's antithetical to the way that we're wired from a slightly sort of more cynical industrial standpoint, this is a business, right? It's an industry. And so if you make a couple of great Marvel movies, the instinct is like, we need to make more Marvel movies and we need to sort of expand this. And I have this sort of like interior feeling of like, wow, I wish they made less because they would make each one that came out a little bit more special, but I watch all of them.

5 (14m 29s):
Sam,

2 (14m 29s):
You're better than me. You better than me.

5 (14m 32s):
People don't want things to end. I do. But in general, the audience wants them to perpetuate.

2 (14m 39s):
I wonder how you feel about all of that as someone who is able to say no and stop the thing. And I wonder if like, can we talk about perhaps your most famous, no, your, your most famous forcing and ending. And this was how lost played out

6 (14m 57s):
Last week. Most of us were strangers, but we're all here now. And God knows how long we're gonna be here.

2 (15m 5s):
Lost becomes a success. You're making this show. ABC decides early on that they wanted to go 10 seasons and you say, no, we'll give you six. And then you even say, we're gonna make fewer episodes per season than the norm. I feel like that would be so hard to even ask for now, how hard was it to do back then?

5 (15m 24s):
Well, it seemed impossible at the time at the time that loss started, as you might imagine, the primary critique of the pilot was how are you gonna keep this up? There's this big sort of cinematic plane crash. And then you start introducing 14 major speaking, part characters, all of whom we're gonna be tracking. And in addition to that, the island that they're on, they're not gonna be leaving at any time soon, the show's called lost. So they kind of have to stay that

2 (15m 53s):
Way.

5 (15m 54s):
Yeah. Are you gonna run into the Gilligans island problem where the audience starts to get frustrated? Because it would make sense for them to be trying to get off the island. And my response to that always was like, you are right. So let's design like a finite beginning, middle and end. ABC just didn't wanna engage in that conversation at the time that they picked up the show is like, really make 13 of these and let's see how it goes. The show was such a, a ratings hit that it became clear to me instantly that all conversations about ending the show would be over. And I was like, Hey guys, this is really great news, but don't forget that issue that you had of how are you gonna keep this up? The answer is we shouldn't keep it up forever.

5 (16m 36s):
That's when ABC said, oh, we were thinking more like 10 seasons. And so the compromise ended up being six. Yeah. But I personally wish that we could have done it in four,

2 (16m 47s):
But even just hearing you talk about wanting to do four, having to do six, but pulling them back from 10, how hard would that conversation even be if you were making a show like lost now, because I compare what happened with lost this world that y'all built, that had to end. And I compare it to a thing like stranger things. And I like that show every season, the kids kill the aliens and yet they come back. They're endlessly building out this world because they have a thing that works in this fragmented viewing economy. Like, would you face more pressure making a show like lost now to just keep it going, keep it going, keep it going, keep it going.

2 (17m 29s):
And would you feel more pressure to bow to the pressure?

5 (17m 33s):
Yes. To all of the above, but what you do now is, and this is certainly what we did on Watchman, which is at the very early stage. You just say, I want you to know that this might only be a season. You know, we wanna design nine or 10 episodes with the beginning, middle and end. And here's why that we would do it that way. Could there be another season of it maybe, but that's not really the plan here. What do you think? And if they say we're not interested in picking up anything that isn't multiple seasons, then they don't go for it. But I do feel that I do see creators now in 2022 saying I have a five season plan and that's what we're gonna do. And then we're gonna be finished.

5 (18m 14s):
I love the fact that Harry Potter ended, you know, JK rolling was very specific in saying there's gonna be seven books and I'm gonna bring the story to a close and did, but then, then there was a stage play, Harry Potter and the curse child,

2 (18m 26s):
And then the prequel movies, which are still happening

5 (18m 29s):
For sure. I don't begrudge them the right to keep it going. And as a fan, I'm sort of like, and not just a fan, but I've made prequels and sequels and reboots. So yeah, I have to, I, I can't be a hypocrite and say, God, like come up with an original idea. Meanwhile, I'm making two star Trek movies and, and Prometheus,

2 (18m 51s):
You know, I wonder also how much of this is about the changing relationship between fans and these shows and these movies and the folks that make them there was this really weird story in the news last week, super fans of the Ryan Murphy show, American horror story got pissed waiting for season 11 of that show because they said he wasn't giving them enough information behind the scenes info about the new season. So they tweet last week and say, we're gonna go on strike a media blackout until Ryan Murphy gives us something. And the next day Ryan Murphy announces the launch date for American horror story, season 11.

2 (19m 32s):
Wow. And you're like, whoa. Fan service has gone to a new level. How much is the, keep these worlds goingness of it all tied to fans, just being louder than ever and demanding more than ever.

5 (19m 44s):
For those of us who are working on a television show or a movie we're investing many, many hours, days, many cases, years of our lives to these artistic pursuits, but the fans do the same thing and they have real relationships. The more energy that we invest in these things, the more entitled we begin to feel that we should have a say and what the outcome is. One of the things that I was fascinated by as it related to lost was that the two questions that we got asked most often were are you making it up as you go along? Are you just winging it? And the fans wanted the answer to that question to be absolutely not. We have a plan. We are executing that plan and understanding that not everything is gonna work, but we're sticking to the plan for the most part.

5 (20m 30s):
Don't worry about it. We got this, you know, we're piloting this plane. Yeah. We're gonna land it. The second question that they asked most often was what input do we have as fans? You know, are you listening to, but how

2 (20m 43s):
Do you, okay. But do you feel like you should have to listen to them at all?

5 (20m 46s):
But here's the thing thing is they want the answer to that question to be, we listen to everything that you say, and it affects the outcome of what we write. But then that would suggest that we don't have a plan. And everything that we're doing is like, yeah, the band basically finishes a song. And then we say, what do you want us to play next? Versus that we have a set list. Here's the set. And so you kind of, you kind of can't win. And I will just say having experienced the intensity of the fandom for all of the wonder and fantastic feeling that it brings. And also all of the terror of, oh my God, they're gonna hate us. If we do this, it is rarefied special air.

5 (21m 29s):
And I wouldn't trade it for the world.

2 (21m 31s):
I mean, that said you're famously not on Twitter,

5 (21m 35s):
Huh? Correct.

2 (21m 37s):
I mean like, like I think it's a part of this like existing IP conversation and a part of this. Like how can you say no conversation is the way to say no or to feel comfortable enough with what you're making to say no is to not listen to all the noise. I think if you're a creator, now there's so much noise to listen to. There's more noise than perhaps 20 years ago is the answer. Just like tune some of that stuff out, delete your Twitter.

5 (22m 3s):
It is. I mean, you have to tune some of that stuff out, right? Because it's your job to hear how people are responding to your stuff. I don't think it's fair to demand an hour of someone's time to watch an episode of something that you've made and then say, but keep your response to yourself. Mostly. You wanna know if they liked it, you would rather not know if they didn't like it,

2 (22m 25s):
But

5 (22m 25s):
You can't ask for only positive feedback. It just doesn't work that way. There's always, of course gonna be people who say this is terrible. It's the worst thing that I've ever seen. You don't know what you're doing. You know, you're a fraud, you're a huckster. Those people are always gonna be out there. They're not haters. They, they may be, some of them may be, but some of them are having. Yeah. But some of them are having a legitimate response. We've all watched shows that we used to like, and then stopped liking or, or liked less. That's part of the nature. And the risk of continuing beyond one's expiration date is eventually that milk starts to taste pretty sour.

2 (23m 3s):
Yeah. You know, I was expecting you to be a little more dower on this stuff. Like I am, I personally, as a viewer, I am mad at the existing IP industrial complex. I'm mad that fans think that they can tell a person how to make a show. I'm mad that there is a loss of a certain viewing monoculture, and you're not mad about this stuff. And you seem pretty optimistic about the state of the industry. Are you,

5 (23m 33s):
You caught me on a good day. You know, I mean, I, no, I just, I think that your anger is righteous. You know,

2 (23m 40s):
I love to hear that.

5 (23m 41s):
And I, and I completely and totally share it. I think that probably what you're, what you're hearing from me is an acknowledgement of my own complicity. I can't sit here and move over into the category of where you are and then answer. But you made Watchmen, that's preexisting IP, you made Prometheus, preexisting IP, you made two star Trek movies, preexisting IP. I can't not acknowledge my own hypocrisy. And I think that sometimes hypocrisy sounds like optimism. It isn't. I am pessimistic about where this is all headed, because I do think

2 (24m 18s):
That tell me more about that.

5 (24m 19s):
I think because the real special stuff, the gems, the original stuff, which everybody craves, right? Everybody says like, I just want something original and then ask people like what their top 10 favorite television shows of all time are. They're gonna mention probably 10 things that were original. They resonated in this way that, you know, the wire, the Sopranos or breaking bad, or I may destroy you. These are not things that were based on preexisting IP. And so it's gonna get harder and harder for the light that those shows shine to basically break through the cloud cover of all of the juggernauts. And that makes me sad. It does feel like it's only gonna get worse.

2 (25m 1s):
What's the fix for that thin. If you're in charge of all the industry, what's the fix.

5 (25m 6s):
I would be very bad and I'd be almost instantly fired if I were in charge of the industry, because I'm not motivated by what's gonna make money and what's gonna get the most eyeballs. But the people who sit in in those chairs and pull those levers, they have to be, or they're gonna lose their jobs. And so that fundamental idea of we have to scale. We have to make more, we have to go bigger. It has to keep going. I'm just sort of more along the lines of, Hey, we had this wonderful experience, we got 2, 3, 4 seasons of something that we loved and you're not gonna get anymore. And that's what makes it special. I love Fleabag. If Phoebe Waller bridge wanted to make a third season of Fleabag, that is absolutely her right.

5 (25m 50s):
And I will be watching it, but I'm so glad that she hasn't. But if I were running a studio, there'd be a lot of pressure on me to talk her into making more. I wouldn't be very good at that job, but I would make less, less, less episodes, shorter seasons, much more of sort of like an artisanal. And again, using that word makes me wanna punch myself in the face, but like not in it for big Mac I'm, I'm in it for like the special meal that I had in one place at one time. And what's amazing about it is I have to go back to that place in order to have that meal again. I can't just walk to the corner and get it, you know?

2 (26m 29s):
Yeah. Last question for you talking about loving and ending things you've said no to more Watchmen, a show that I wanna say received more Emmy nominations than any other show that year that it was up for all the Emmy's and one of you, what if a studio says, we're gonna give you a bajillion dollars, just give us a Watchman, prequel, sequel, something give us, would you, would you do it

5 (26m 55s):
A bajillion? I, I wouldn't, you know, I, I really believe that I wouldn't. One of the things that made the Watchman experience special for those of us who were inside that process, that there was an looming end date. And I think that maybe the only reason that it worked was because we knew that it, we were gonna be together for these two years and then everyone was gonna go off and do separate things. And so I feel like I'd be dishonoring the work that was done on the season that we made by continuing it. And I also feel as a fellow comic book nerd, some allegiance to the original Watchman. And so I think that that idea of like Watchman is, is a very special thing.

5 (27m 36s):
You come in, you do your version of it and then you're finished. Huh? Just treat it with some degree of fragility because these things are very fragile and you have to treat them with care, love, and care.

2 (27m 51s):
Well, I tell you what you have given me a little bit more faith in the world of TV and

5 (27m 58s):
Movies. Have I changed your mind? Oh my God, come on. Yeah. Come on, Sam, come over to the light side.

2 (28m 5s):
I think it's gonna be all right. I'm gonna choose to see the bright side you're telling me to. So thank you so much for this chat.

5 (28m 10s):
What better ending than that, Sam? That's the perfect ending.

2 (28m 14s):
We stuck the landing. Yes we did. I love it. Thank you. Thanks again to producer and screenwriter, Damon, Linda laugh. Also one more thing listeners, before we get to our last segment of the show this week, wanna save some space for vulture TV, critic, gin Cheney. Jen wanted to share a few thoughts on Olivia Newton, John who died earlier this week, Olivia Newton, John loomed so large in G's life.

2 (28m 55s):
She said that if she had a daughter, she fully would've named her. Olivia.

7 (29m 1s):
When the news broke earlier this week that Olivia Newton, John died. A lot of women in my gen X demographic were really, really sad, including myself. And I was trying to think what it was about Olivia Newton, John, that resonated with so many of us when we were kids. And I think it has a lot to do with both her arc within the movie, Greece, which kind of paralleled her arc as a musical artist where, you know, she started out as the girl, next door

8 (29m 35s):
Lady devoted.

7 (29m 39s):
As she moved on with her career, she started to lean more into, you know, more adult, more sexy kind of material. And in the movie Greece, she makes that transformation ostensibly, to win over Danny Zuko, which is not the best message.

9 (29m 52s):
Tell me about it instead.

7 (29m 54s):
But as an artist, I think she made that decision of her own accord. And that was how she wanted to express herself.

1 (30m 2s):
You better shave up man set on you

7 (30m 11s):
On a subconscious level that really resonated with a lot of girls. This idea that you could be the kind of girl who wears all black leather, but also be sweet and nice that you could contain multitudes. I think in some ways she really conveyed that to all of us. And I really appreciated that about her and, and I'm gonna miss her being in the world a lot.

2 (30m 45s):
Thanks again, to vulture critic, gin, Chaney culture, Geist, culture Geist. You're listening to culture, Geist, culture Geist. I don't know y'all.

10 (31m 7s):
And now for a segment we're calling culture Geist about all the things we can't stop thinking about the culture that's haunting. You haunting me. Haing all of us for better or worse.

9 (31m 27s):
My name is Catherine. ER, I am a critic at vulture and my obsession this week is that there are 25 new episodes of the children's show bluey now available to stream on Disney plus. But my real obsession is that in one of the new episodes, it's called omelet. The mom is making breakfast for the dad because it's his birthday, but she doesn't make it as fast as she possibly could because the youngest sister feels left out. So the mom slows down to try to include the youngest sister in the breakfast making process. Even though the dad is hungry and annoyed. And it's his birthday here is my issue.

9 (32m 8s):
I got in a very serious life changing, very upsetting disagreement with a colleague at another publication because he washed this episode and he believed that he was seeing a tragic story about a dad whose needs always come last. And meanwhile, what I saw in that episode is a cautionary tale. Think of about a mom who has to parent her children and her spouse. My name is Justin Kuo and I cover

11 (32m 39s):
Music for vulture. And what has been emotionally haunting me recently is Maggie Rogers' new album surrender, which just has these little moments that just like hit me right in the fields on one of the singles horses. When toward the end, she sings in the chorus. I see horses. And I know there's a way, there's this sleep breaking in her voice and it's really emotional. And I'm like, I feel that,

1 (33m 13s):
Or

11 (33m 13s):
There's this song called shatter where she's singing about how her heroes have died and she wishes she could hear a new David Bowie song. Again, I'm not gonna hear

12 (33m 27s):
A new movie again again, again

11 (33m 29s):
Again. And I'm like, girl, me too makes me want to make a tum wear account again, just so I can post all these song lyrics and be really emotional.

13 (33m 41s):
I'm Mariana Cruz. I'm a producer at switch on pop. And over the past few weeks, I've started to dig deep into the absolutely baffling story of Paul Abdul's plane crash. If you're not familiar with the illustrious history of superstar, Paul Abdu, Paul has told this frankly, outlandish story of a crash in the early nineties.

14 (34m 1s):
And I took, I had to take seven years off and then I reappeared on American idol. So the thing is though about this crash is that reporters have not been able to find anything about it anywhere. No eyewitnesses, no markings, no police reports. The only thing that they have is Paula's stories, which honestly quite conflict. So I haven't been able to stop thinking about it because what happened here? What is going on? Was there a plane crash? Was there not really makes you think.

2 (34m 34s):
Thanks again to Rihanna, Cruz, Justin Curto and Katherine van Aaron Don, my culture Geist this week is just one single solitary sentence. And the official statement that Donald Trump released after his Mar Lago estate was being rated. He wrote the following line. They even broke into my safe exclamation point. I find it hilarious. I imagine Donald Trump saying that sentence with the same energy as right in front of my salad. And if you know, you know, all right, Intuit is hosted by me, Sam Sanders.

2 (35m 18s):
The show is produced by Janney west Giani Carter and Zach M our fearless editor is Jordanna Homan. Our engineer is Daniel Turk. Our music is composed by the mysterious get lovable Breakmaster cylinder. Our podcast operations manager is Gabi Grossman. Hannah Rosen is the, the editorial director of audio at New York magazine listeners. We're back next Thursday with a new episode till then keep your safes locked up. See y'all next week. Bye.