1 (10s):
It's an, I explained I'm Sean Rama's from, towards the end of last year, we brought you an episode that was wall to wall. Good news. We spoke to a bunch of Vox reporters about positive developments that they thought went under noticed in 2021. One of them was Dylan Matthews from Vox is future perfect desk. He writes all about the ways we can make the world work better for people.

2 (32s):
I think probably the best thing that's happened on my B over the past here, besides, you know, the COVID vaccinations and people being protected has been the huge drop in poverty, especially for kids.

1 (46s):
One of the things that led to that drop in child poverty was an expanded child tax credit.

2 (52s):
It was a one-year experiment that happened in 2021. And for six months of 2021 people for the first time were getting monthly cash payments from the IRS as part of the child tax credit, which is something that had never happened before

1 (1m 6s):
Your days after Dylan told us about this good news, that expanded child tax credit,

2 (1m 13s):
That was an emergency provision that was passed as part of the Biden's stimulus in March.

3 (1m 19s):
The expanded child tax credit is here today for families all over our country for children all over our country, help us here

2 (1m 33s):
Biden very much. We'd like to expand it. Most Democrats in Congress would very much like to expand it, but as of right now, it expired on December 31st, 2021.

1 (1m 42s):
So today we're going to ask how this expanded tax credit program for kids went because at least in the United States, it was kind of an unprecedented experiment in social welfare

2 (1m 53s):
Child. Payments are just sort of unrestricted cash to parents is one of those things like universal healthcare or pre-K that most other rich countries do in the U S doesn't poverty researchers and journalists like me who cover their work had been writing about how the us doesn't have a policy like this. Whereas Canada does a UK has Virgin Germany has a version. Japan has a version, and that this was really hurting us when it came to child poverty, that we have much higher child poverty by a variety of measures than other rich countries. And a large part of that is that they, they provide cash assistance to parents. And we didn't. So gradually you started to see sort of the ground move in Congress on this, that there was a bill introduced in 2017 by a few senators and then a few members of the house that would establish sort of unrestricted cash payments to, to parents that started to build momentum.

2 (2m 47s):
And then eventually in 2020, Joe Biden got on board and said, you know what, at least for a year during coronavirus, we want to try this out.

4 (2m 56s):
I think we need to give ordinary families a break, a tax break to help some of the costs of raising their kids.

2 (3m 3s):
A lot of us we're hopeful that not just that, that would do some good in 2021, which it did. It drove child poverty way down by some metrics. 2021 was the lowest year of poverty on record in the United States. We were hopeful that it could stay on a little longer. That seems to not be true, basically because of Joe Manchin.

5 (3m 24s):
First of all, child tax credits, think about this. If a child tax credit, do you want to help the children and the parents that are basically providing for those children? There's no work requirements whatsoever. There is no education requirements whatsoever for better skillsets. Don't you think if we want to help the children to people should make some effort,

2 (3m 40s):
Everyone else, 49, us senators, including Christian cinema seem to like this policy. Joe mansion seems very concerned that because what changed about the child tax credit, several things changed. It got bigger, it got paid out monthly, as opposed to with people's tax refunds, but also there's no income test at the bottom before 2021, you had to make at least $2,500 to get any child tax credit. And even then it phased in slowly. So if you were living in poverty, you probably couldn't get the full benefit of the credit. And that was one thing that Biden changed in 2021 that the whole credit in its big expanded form went to everyone, whether or not they had a job or not.

2 (4m 23s):
And that seemed really important as we were recovering from, from a really awful recession in 2020 that, you know, maybe if you don't have a job, that's not really your fault. And so offering some assistance, not tied to that seemed important. And I think it's also just important in general, that people living in poverty work in different labor markets than other people in the economy. And it is often tougher to get a job it's tough to, to manage childcare. That's one reason experts had been pushing for this, this change to make it available for people at the very bottom. But I think Joe Manchin looked at that and says, Hey, you're paying people not to work. This is a no, I think that's a little silly. Like this is at most $300 a month per kid.

2 (5m 5s):
No parent of three is going to be like, oh, $900 a month. That's great. That's all the money I needed here. He was very concerned about that. And so right now, I think as we speak, he and Democrats are trying to figure out if there's a deal, they can cut that he's comfortable with to expand it in some form. It's probably not going to look the way it looked in 2021, but, but he's been very resistant to just carrying that forward indefinitely. Do we have any

1 (5m 30s):
Data that suggests how this, you know, massive experiment in, in giving people free money worked?

2 (5m 36s):
We do, let me pull it up there. There've been a few people trying to track this one that, that I think is particularly interested in, in the child. Tax credit is a team at Columbia that does monthly poverty estimates. And that's especially important because you know, it's the coronavirus, everything is changing really rapidly. Month to month. Policies are changing a lot month to month. What they found is that December the child tax credit kept about 3.7 million children out of poverty. Good news. Their estimate is that due to it expiring in January, the child poverty rate is going to increase from about 12% to at least 17% for, for early this year badness.

2 (6m 20s):
So about 5% of kids are going to go from not being in poverty to being in poverty because this policy expired.

1 (6m 27s):
It sounds like it alleviated a whole lot of poverty for a whole lot of people. Is this, I mean, were people impressed with

2 (6m 33s):
It depends what you mean by people was, was I impressed? Yeah, I think a lot. And a lot of people who've studied poverty. Their whole careers viewed this as this big watershed moment. And it was, it was a particularly big deal because it was exactly 25 years after the U S abolished welfare. As we know it as bill Clinton, put it

6 (6m 52s):
From now on our nation's answer to this great social challenge will no longer be a never-ending cycle of welfare. It will be the dignity, the power.

2 (7m 2s):
Yes. It could work. There had been a sort of cash program for single mothers and one that was designed specifically so that they wouldn't work. And Clinton abolish that. And in the 25 years, since there hasn't really been unrestricted cash for parents. And so it felt kind of like the end of an era and the beginning of a new era. I think the public opinion response was not exactly what I or other people were expecting. It was not unpopular. My general rule of thumb is that if you ask Americans, do you want the government to do a service? They will usually say yes by some margin, unless the service is like, like setting orphans on fire That pose badly, the child tax credit pulled better than setting orphans on fire, but it pulled worse than about everything else that Democrats wanted to do worse than spending money on, on climate change.

2 (7m 59s):
It pulled worse than spending money on elder care and care for people with disabilities pulled worse than pre-K. And this has been sort of puzzling to a lot of people I know who follow this. I think some of it is just like a smaller and smaller share of people are parents of kids, especially parents of young kids who got especially big benefits under this. And a lot more people are say, retirees who want help with nursing home bills or people with student loan debt who want debt relief people in college. It's, it's not as big a part of the life cycle. As I think a lot of us went in thinking it was. And so we thought there'd be this sort of natural constituency of both poor and not poor parents being like, Hey, I'm getting a few hundred bucks a month.

2 (8m 46s):
Like that's not too shabby. And it didn't seem to build that kind of base at least in the one year that we tried it. And maybe just one year wasn't enough.

1 (8m 55s):
Is it possible that a lot of Americans who were polled agree with Joe mansion or even, I believe, you know, a couple of researchers at the university of Chicago, Bruce Mayer and Kevin Corinth that that giving parents money might disincentivize work.

2 (9m 13s):
Yeah. And I I've, I've read Bruce and Kevin's paper and they make a decent point just that you went from a policy that explicitly incentivize work to one that doesn't try to, and that might have some effects on parents' work. I'm willing to concede that, but even their numbers suggested it, it cut child poverty pretty dramatically. They don't think that's worth it. I do. But I do think a lot of Americans share Joe Manchins fears that like people are going to blow it on booze. People are going to blow it on drugs. West Virginia had a really bad opioid epidemic even sort of by us standards. And I think there's, there's a lot of sort of folk wisdom about people just blowing government benefits.

2 (9m 56s):
Well, do we

1 (9m 56s):
Know how parents spent this money? Do we have that data?

2 (9m 59s):
People seem to spend the money on food, some, some on rent though, for people in really stressed housing situations, the eviction moratorium and, and other housing measures helped a lot. So they didn't need to lean on the child tax credit, the same amount. There's some indication in employment. I've seen that people really viewed this as something that was earmarked for their kids. And so it was something that they had to spend on food for their kids or clothing for their kids back to school stuff. People

1 (10m 26s):
Didn't know. They could just go out and buy heroin

2 (10m 28s):
With this buddy. I may mean, thankfully, the government didn't put up billboards being like, you know, you can spend this on heroin, right? But they, they, they seem to instead invest pretty heavily and their kids, because they were told that's what this was for. And I think labeling at the child tax credits are made that clear of like, this is to help you raise your kid.

1 (10m 47s):
So even if most American parents ended up spending this money on food for their families, people still aren't completely in love with this program. And it sounds like Republicans in Congress just plain old think it's too dang expensive, huh?

2 (11m 2s):
Yes. There is exactly one Republican in Congress who is excited about giving cash to every parent. His name is Mitt Romney and he has no other friends on this issue. And he, he has, he has his own plan to do this.

8 (11m 18s):
Under our plan. Parents receive a benefit, a monthly benefit, and they actually begin receiving it four months prior to the time the child is due, maximum payment is $1,250 per family per month.

2 (11m 33s):
I like a lot of it. I would pass it in a heartbeat, but he also designed it sort of, so it can't pass and its current form like all the pay fours are sacred cows that Democrats love, like getting rid of a variety of other sort of smaller social assistance programs, getting rid of the state and local tax deduction that Democrats in California, in New York and New Jersey view as like their sacred birthright. And I agree with him that that would be a good trade, but it, it was sort of written as trolling and, and written in such a way that he had to know this would not be viable for a lot of Democrats.

2 (12m 17s):
So I think my, my hope for, for 2022, and this is I put low probability on this, but is that he can work out a deal with Democrats where you don't need Joe Manchin and you might be able to get some buy-in from, from him as the 50th vote to, to expand this program and keep it going on an ongoing basis. But he is going to demand that it be permanently paid for. And that's going to raise a lot of tough questions about how to pay for it

1 (12m 46s):
Since we're sort of, role-playing here, Dylan, and you're talking about how you'd vote for, for Romney's bill or not. I, I wonder, you know, if you were in the room with the Romneys and the mansions and the, the Republicans who perhaps see this as a program, that's going to disincentivize work and cost way too much money. What data was you present them?

2 (13m 3s):
I would point out that that efforts to estimate the cost of child poverty in the United States, put it at about hundreds of billions of dollars every year. Kids who grew up in poverty got lower test scores are less likely to finish high school or college, earn less as adults pay loss as taxpayers, they're likelier to get involved in the criminal justice system, which costs the government a whole lot of money. Even if you don't care about the kids themselves, which you should, these, these kids are going to be adults Sunday and they're going to be better adults and, and better citizens of the country you want to live in.

2 (13m 43s):
If they didn't grow up in poverty, this is really, really costly as a problem for the United States and trying to fix it with the credit can create a lot of other side benefits. There's also a new study. It's just one study. Don't make too much of it. But, but suggesting that this could actually sort of change patterns and brains of babies that whose families get cash benefits. So there's, there's a lot of evidence suggesting that this might have profound effects for children as they grow up.

1 (14m 22s):
I don't want to make too much of it, but I want to hear

2 (14m 24s):
More about that in a minute. Talk to you in a sec

1 (14m 43s):
Support for the show that comes from imperfect foods today. I love me some imperfect foods. I'm at the grocery store. I see a blemished onion. I see a perfect one. I buy the blemished one. I'm just kidding. I don't have the guts. I'm not brave enough. I buy the perfect one, but imperfect foods. They are some brave people. They, they gather all the blemished ones, all the rejected babies and they bring them to you. And they say, look at this food. That is perfectly fine. Don't throw it away. Don't don't ignore it. Confront it, eat it, embrace it. Enjoy it. It's delicious. Right now, imperfect foods is offering today. Explain listeners 20% off their first four orders.

1 (15m 23s):
When they go to imperfect foods.com and use the promo code. Explain 20. That is 20% off your first four orders. That's up to an $80 value. bob@imperfectfoods.com. When you use promo code, explain 20, join the movement@imperfectfoods.com and use the code. Explain 20.

9 (15m 48s):
Hi, I'm Kara Swisher. And just a few weeks. I'm heading to Miami to drive Scott Galloway crazy. And, and actually to have a conference with him. It's not because we like the beach, although we do it's because Miami is the perfect backdrop for pivot Mia, a brand new three-day event, hosted by us, of course, and also featuring the biggest and boldest names in tech, FinTech, media, education, climate, and more. There's still time to apply, to see speakers like Sandeep Mathrani CEO of WeWork, Cathy Savage, president and chief commercial officer of boom, Meredith Copa, Levian, president and CEO of the New York times. David M. Solomon chairman and CEO of Goldman Sachs and many more so exciting. We can't even announce them yet. We are always throw good events. Honestly, I've done for 20 years. Trust me on this one.

9 (16m 29s):
It's pivots signature hot takes and even hotter because like we said, we're at the beach in Miami visit box media events.com/pivot, M I a slash podcast to apply to attend and see you in Miami on February 14th. Happy Valentine's day. Don't tell Scott I'm getting him nothing. All of course be the one in aviator sunglasses. Although that's nothing new,

1 (16m 50s):
Not even a gesture, you're not going to be anything, nothing

9 (16m 53s):
Even adjust your thing. Not a thing

1 (16m 59s):
A minute ago, boxes, Dillon ninth, you said there was this new study that suggested giving parents money for their kids could potentially change their kid's brain activity. He said not to make too much of stink about it, but I mean, we have to know that

2 (17m 11s):
There are a lot of reasons you might want to give cash to parents or families with kids. Getting them out of poverty is one that's, one that I care a lot about, but there are other more health-related reasons. And for years, economists and doctors and scientists have sort of theorized that child development goes better. When you have more money over the last few

10 (17m 30s):
Years, many other scientists have also found links between growing up poor and differences in,

2 (17m 37s):
And that sort of makes intuitive sense to a lot of people. You have more access to education and you have more access to sort of enrichment opportunities reading, but it hasn't been sort of tested in an experiment before. And there's a big new experiment called baby's first years. This started in 2018.

11 (17m 54s):
The baby's first year study included 1000 low income moms. Shortly after they gave birth. Some were given a little more than $300 a month or the rest received $20 a month.

2 (18m 6s):
And the first study to come out of that experiment came out this month

11 (18m 9s):
For a year of receiving that money to use how they chose the babies and the families who received more money, had faster activity in key areas of their brain showing stronger cognitive development. Wow,

2 (18m 21s):
It's pretty well. And I want to be clear that this is just one study and part of why I'm excited about these first years as an experiment is that it's going to be tracking these kids for many years. It's going to see what gain this cash means for them at three, at four, they might have to change the researchers doing it. But the idea is to track this for a very long time, but this is the very first data we've gotten out. And it's suggestive that something is happening to these kids related to them getting cash,

1 (18m 54s):
Help people listening right now make the connection between, you know, an infant's parents getting cash from the federal government. And it sounds like you're saying neurological activity. Yeah.

12 (19m 7s):
One of the things we were very interested in was the surface area of the cerebral cortex or the thin wrinkly layer on the outer surface of the brain that does most of the cognitive heavy lifting. And that's because past work by other scientists has suggested that in many cases, a larger cortical surface area is often associated with higher intelligence.

2 (19m 28s):
Specifically, this is looking at what are informally called brainwaves. There's a set of sort of electrical waves that our brains use that operate at different frequencies. And so there are lower frequency or slower waves, and there are higher frequency and higher waves in this found that there were more higher end waves in kids that got the money. And it's kind of hard to say why that happened. There are a lot of theories. So one is just that having more money makes parents less stressed having the less stressed mom or dad or both is probably good for kids and probably helps their development. Another theory is that they invested in things that we know help kids like sort of high quality daycare or buying books for them putting them in and enrichment activities.

2 (20m 12s):
Things like that. The study is not as good at teasing out the mechanisms through which this worked, but there are a lot of reasons to think that having more money can, can help kids develop better, which is partially seen when you compare outcomes for rich and poor kids that due to no fault of their own poor kids tend to have lower test scores, worse outcomes on a number of health metrics.

12 (20m 34s):
In fact, a child living with poverty is likely to perform worse on tests of language and impulse control before they even turn to.

2 (20m 43s):
And this is really tracking that and seeing that some of those might come up at a very young age and with very slight differences in the amount of money involved.

1 (20m 52s):
How do you study the brainwaves of infants of tiny little children? It

2 (20m 57s):
Is cute as hell. Shawn,

13 (20m 60s):
You got to see the baby. When are you going to see the baby?

2 (21m 3s):
And they just send us a tape. I couldn't put photos of this in the article because there of kids in the actual experiment and it would violate their privacy. When the researchers showed them to me privately, they have this little like swim cap that they put on the baby's heads. And it has these little tassels that you Velcro together at, at their chin, a sort of like a winter hat for a baby. And they placed the baby in their mother's lap and see it at rest. And just see what happens through the cap. The cap is actually measuring the electrical activity on their scalp, which you can pick up from the brain. And so it's these, these little like swimmer babies with these adorable helmets on, but they're they're little scientists, babies doing it for science.

1 (21m 44s):
The ever you mentioned, this is just one study at this point. Is there any chance that there's some other factor involved here with the brainwaves of these infants? Could it be where they live? Could it be, you know, who their parents are or something like that.

2 (21m 60s):
I've seen some solid critiques of this study and it was hard to follow up with families that they had some attrition between people who were initially getting money and people who they were able to get brain scans for the babies. And so that might complicate interpreting it. There's also some statistical issues around sort of how significant the difference between the groups where it's not an enormous effect, but it's about the effect that the study was big enough to pick up. And so I think reasonable people can disagree about how important this one study is, but it does fit in a broader literature that using a variety of methods, that's pretty consistently found that having more money in the home is good for kids development. It helps them learn. It helps them mature.

2 (22m 40s):
Yeah.

1 (22m 40s):
Well, how did these brain measurements fit into what scientists already know about the link between, you know, giving money and brain development for kids?

2 (22m 51s):
So Kimberly Noble, who's a neuroscientist. And, and one of the lead authors on the study I've argued that this was important because we know that some of these brainwave measures correlate to other things later in life.

12 (23m 4s):
No, in this study we found one factor that was associated with the cortical surface area across nearly the entire surface of the brain. That factor was family income

2 (23m 16s):
Correlate to better verbal ability. When kids start to talk and to breed, they correlate to personality, characteristics like being more cooperative and able to work with others.

12 (23m 26s):
It's important because those are the very skills that children living in poverty are most likely to see.

2 (23m 33s):
And so we're not able to know what happened to these kids once they're five or six, because they're not yet five or six, but we can try to look forward to what they might be like by looking at factors. Do know when they're one. And so if I were a parent, I would not really care what the brainwaves of my one-year-old looked like. It's interesting, but it's not like something that's going to make or break their life. What matters is, if it tells you something about where they're going to be at four or five, as they're starting to really learn stuff in earnest, and it's at least suggestive that cash can lead to changes in the brain that suggest better things down the road

12 (24m 11s):
Put simply if we can show that reducing poverty changes, how children's brains develop, then a young child born into poverty today may have a much better shot at a brain.

1 (24m 23s):
And certainly there are a lot of smart people who study early childhood development. How are they looking at this study?

2 (24m 29s):
I see mostly within the field of child development, people are really excited like studies like this just don't happen very much. It's really expensive. They're giving $4,000 a year to hundreds of people. And it's very rare for scientists to get the kind of resources to do a study like that, to just panned out that amount of cash. And so I talked to a psychology professor at Harvard, Katie McLauchlan and she said, this might be like the most important study we've seen to date on child adversity and brain outcomes. Another responses it's one study. And I think that's really important for listeners to keep in mind that that science doesn't work by big revelations. That works a little bit at a time. And I think this adds a little bit to our understanding of how cash can help kids grow up better, but I'm most excited for what this experiment is going to tell us later.

2 (25m 18s):
I'm really sort of excited to watch these kids grow up and learn what happens to them

1 (25m 23s):
And what implications might these studies as they continue have on policy. I mean the expanded child tax credit is a thing of the past could studies like this turn around the politics.

2 (25m 40s):
I mean, weather stays like this turnaround. The politics is, is a question for Joe Manchin in many ways. This is a no. And I don't know how, what he thinks about this study personally, have we

1 (25m 50s):
Studied his brainwaves.

2 (25m 52s):
Someone should, we would get all use a little EEG in our life, but I think where it fits into the politics is that we talk a lot about the effects of giving cash to parents on the parents. So mansion's reason for being hesitant to keep the expanded credit going was that he thought it would deter parents from working. And he thought that was a really bad thing for families. I don't think he's right about that, but it's, it's one effect. And I think the conversation has largely been missing the effect on kids and whether or not you think parents of kids ought to be working or not. Kids didn't do anything to deserve where they wound up at birth,

1 (26m 42s):
Dylan Matthews. You can find his writing and future perfect advance.com. Our show today was produced by Heidi Milwaukee with help from Victoria Chamberlain. It was edited by Matthew Collette engineered by Paul mousey and fact checked by Richard SEMA and Laura Bullard who joined our team today for real, for real welcome Laura,