0 (1s):
Super Bowl Sunday has come and gone, but the Super Bowl of bees is just getting underway. This time of year, millions of honey beehives descend on California's central valley to pollinate billions of dollars worth of almonds

2 (18s):
For a few short weeks. Every year, central Valley erupts in pink and white blossoms from the almond trees and they're truly

0 (25s):
Beautiful. And thus the bees are very, very

3 (28s):
Valuable. Some like to say that without the almond pollination and the money that is like going with it, the beekeepers in the US would go

0 (35s):
Broke. So valuable that people tend to steal them

4 (39s):
And the buzz around town, the beekeepers know exactly who allegedly stole from them.

0 (44s):
The sting operation is ahead on today. Explain today. Explained Sean Ramo here with today. Explained producer reporter Halima Shaw who is here to tell us about the bees Halima. What's up with the

5 (1m 14s):
Bees? Last year I got really interested in bees after seeing these reports that a lot of frustrated beekeepers had been placing G p s trackers and apple air tags on their beehives.

0 (1m 26s):
Huh?

5 (1m 26s):
Because in the dark of night people were stealing honeybees.

4 (1m 30s):
A beehive heist in Yolo County ended with an arrest outside of woodland. Sheriff's detectives turned up more than 70 stolen bee boxes from six different beekeepers

5 (1m 42s):
And there were reports of beekeepers maybe leaving hundreds of hives in a field one day and then coming back a few days later or even the next morning and finding that they were 20, 30, 90 beehives short. Hmm. And the first thing I thought to myself was, why would you steal bees? How do you steal bees? Because wouldn't they sting you?

0 (2m 2s):
I mean, I've never been stung by a bee personally, and that in my advanced stage has me only more, you know, hesitant to even go anywhere near a beehive.

5 (2m 12s):
Yeah, I have been stung by a bee once in like second grade, so it's really hard for me to imagine why somebody would do this and why someone would risk the trouble of getting stung. But it turns out that people steal bees for the same reason. You might steal a bike in the city, or as you heard on the show last week, might steal cows or horses. The incentive is money, it's cash.

6 (2m 36s):
There's a lot of money surrounding honey bees.

5 (2m 40s):
This is Rowdy Freeman. He's a beekeeper. He's also a bee detective of sorts because he is the deputy sheriff in a county in the Central Valley of California and he investigates a lot of these hive thefts.

6 (2m 53s):
Of course there's an opportunity for thieves to steal honey bees and turn around and make money off of those stolen beehives.

5 (2m 60s):
Right now, California's Central Valley is having the world's largest pollination event, and that's why this is hive theft. Central honeybees basically descend on the central valley because the central valley is the almond capital of the world.

7 (3m 20s):
Be a pros snacker with a handful of heart healthy California almonds,

5 (3m 24s):
Honeybees love almonds and almonds love honeybees. The two businesses are very codependent. California produces 80% of the world's almond supply and there is no other pollinator like birds or flies or even the wind that can pollinate almonds like bees can. But there's not close to enough bees in California to pollinate all of the almond trees there. So beekeepers basically ship hives into the valley. They show up on semi-trucks and they rent these bees out to almond growers for pollination. What

0 (3m 58s):
Do they go for? What's the, what's the B rate these days?

5 (4m 1s):
It's in the neighborhood of $300 a hive.

0 (4m 4s):
Okay. So real money

5 (4m 6s):
And in the weeks leading up to almond pollination, there's a lot of thefts. Here's an example of what happened to a beekeeper whose hives were stolen last month.

6 (4m 17s):
He had 84 hives in a apiary, which is, you know, like a holding location or a yard where honey bees are kept. He was getting ready to move those bees into an orchard under a pollination contract the following day. And someone came in the night before and took 84 of 'em.

0 (4m 35s):
So 84 hives. We're talking like 84 hives at 300 bucks a pop. We're talking like over 20 k. Yeah,

5 (4m 42s):
Yeah. We're talking like 25 Gs.

0 (4m 45s):
I'm just a little confused here. How easy is it to steal $20,000 worth of bees?

5 (4m 51s):
It sounds really hard. So I went to the Central Valley in early February just as pollination season was kicking off to find out what

0 (4m 60s):
Did you find? Are you now an amateur beekeeper?

5 (5m 3s):
No, far from it, but I can definitely say that I've been to an A apiary now. Oh, there's a bee. There's a bee.

0 (5m 11s):
And what kinds of bees are these? Are these the kinds that wanna sting Halima?

5 (5m 14s):
Yes, they're honey bees. I have a phobia of bees like, and it's, it's not something I'm proud of because no matter how many times people tell me bees will only stink to protect themselves, bees aren't interested in stinging you. I can't get over the, the pinchers and like their, their fuzzy like coat and their kind of like cult mentality. Like they're obsessed with their queen. And I think anything that's like so focused on authority is, is like you can't be trusted.

0 (5m 44s):
It's like qan on but but bees instead of Donald Trump.

5 (5m 46s):
Yeah, I mean there is a like a, a cult documentary waiting to be made about bees. It is just dawning on me that I'm literally standing right by the hives. I'm standing like 40, 50 feet away. Oh, I think I hear Max Anna hear a bee shit.

8 (6m 3s):
Okay.

5 (6m 5s):
Be a professional.

8 (6m 8s):
Hi Max.

3 (6m 9s):
Yes.

5 (6m 11s):
So good to finally meet you in person. How are you? I'm doing good. I was sweating. Those are the bees

3 (6m 18s):
Everywhere you can see trees, you usually can see bees.

0 (6m 22s):
Is this guy French?

5 (6m 23s):
He is. His name is Maximilian Ebrd Max. He's 31 and first started keeping bees as a kid in France and he works with a beekeeping company called ubi.

3 (6m 35s):
So let's go this way so we can, you know, look at some suits that you can try on to make sure you know you're protected. Yeah. And then if you want we can pick like some hives. I can introduce you a bit into the B world. Okay, perfect. Sounds good.

5 (6m 47s):
So I'm being all chipper here, but my head was honestly all over the place. I was remembering how when I was in elementary school there was a closeup picture of a B on my textbook. So I put a book cover on it and my mom tried to get me to get over my fear and she like took my hand and put it on the picture of the bee and I cried. Wow.

0 (7m 7s):
So

5 (7m 7s):
I was all over the place for this interview, which is why I asked this really stupid question. So when you put a

9 (7m 13s):
Bee suit on, do you wear the clothes you have on underneath? Yeah, the

3 (7m 17s):
Suit. Yeah, you don't get naked. The little B suit. Okay,

8 (7m 24s):
What are you doing?

5 (7m 29s):
Anyways, let's move on. So we walk over to the yard where the hives are kept and each hive is basically a stack of four boxes on top of industrial pallets.

3 (7m 40s):
Here we are. So let's see. So we want to pick one that's

5 (7m 45s):
Alive and a standard B box. When you think about it has 10 frames in it and those frames are lined up inside the box the way folders are in a filing cabinet.

3 (7m 55s):
Okay, let's see. And try to crack the box.

5 (8m 3s):
And it literally looks like a wood picture frame when you pull out one of these frames. But instead of a photo and glass, there's a honey comb and a bunch of bees.

3 (8m 13s):
See this is the nice they do when they not happy. So see it right now. I just crack behind.

5 (8m 18s):
Yeah, one just

3 (8m 19s):
Attack and they just,

5 (8m 21s):
And what are you doing right now with the smoker?

3 (8m 23s):
I'm smoking behind,

0 (8m 25s):
He smokes classic California.

5 (8m 30s):
He's using a bee smoker so it's like a, any metal can and it has a little billow attached to the side and a nozzle on top that basically blows smoke out and the smoke kind of settles between each frame of the hive

3 (8m 44s):
And they're distracted and they, they think less about stinging whoever is disturbing them.

0 (8m 49s):
Huh. So if you were to steal bees from Max's a apiary, would you need the suits and the smoker, it sounds like a lot of work to do a little theft.

5 (8m 59s):
Yes, you need all of that. You need a smoker, you need a bee suit, you need a forklift.

0 (9m 5s):
A

5 (9m 5s):
Forklift. Yes. Here's the anatomy of a heist, Sean. To answer your question. During the day a bee thief might drive around and take note of where the hives are.

6 (9m 18s):
They scout out a location where the beehives are easily accessible. They're often out in rural areas where there's no one else around.

5 (9m 25s):
And under the cover of darkness the thieves return

6 (9m 29s):
And they have their flatbed trucks and some sort of a forklift. And the hives that are stolen are most often on pallets. And so they just pick up the pallets of bees with the forklifts and load 'em on trucks and drive away. Now they can move into a yard and steal a hundred beehives in, you know, 15 minutes.

0 (9m 49s):
They don't have ring doorbells in rural America.

5 (9m 52s):
I mean some people have cameras out there. Yes, but like, think about it, the only person who could actually steal a beehive is probably another beekeeper. Someone who's been in the industry has the equipment, knows how to calm bees and you can put a camera up facing the hives, but what is the camera gonna catch? It's gonna catch a person in a bee suit with a smoker. It just looks like the beekeeper who would own the hives?

0 (10m 19s):
Oh touche.

5 (10m 22s):
If you were to steal the hives, an almond pollination season were to kick off in full swing, all you'd have to do is say, look at these beehives, they're mine. And then rent 'em out to someone who needs your bees.

0 (10m 39s):
Has your French friend Max had his beehive stolen

5 (10m 42s):
In the past? He has had beehive stolen. He told me that a friend had called him once and said he saw some bee boxes with his company's label on them in a location they weren't supposed to be at. And he said it wasn't hard to figure out who took them because beekeeping is a very small business. People talk and it was really awkward.

3 (11m 1s):
Well we had a difficult discussion. It's just, okay, it's clear that you have some of my hives, I want them back. And so I got the hives easily back because you know, at some point is either you get the hives back or you, you involve like the act sheriff or someone from the police and nobody has interest, you know, in in in going there for something that's obviously not his.

0 (11m 24s):
The thing I'm wondering right now is just how widespread is this be theft issue in in California?

5 (11m 30s):
Well Deputy Freeman said that be thefts have been steadily increasing since he started his job in 2013 and last year for example, there were over a thousand hives reported stolen statewide. Wow. Yeah. So it's been a consistent problem, but this year has been kind of an outlier. Hmm. Deputy Freeman has only investigated one hive theft so far, which is extremely unusual.

6 (11m 56s):
Honestly, one of the big factors I believe is the weather we've been having out in cattle floor lately, heavy rain and flooding. So the thieves haven't been able to go out there and steal bees like they normally would've if it was dry. And you know, they, they don't want risk taking their equipment in and getting stuck and having to leave it behind.

5 (12m 14s):
I mean extreme weather is good at deterring theft but it's actually really bad for bees nest

0 (12m 20s):
Shame on you.

5 (12m 24s):
The most obvious threat to bees is climate change, wildfires, floods, all that stuff destroys habitats. Think about Hurricane Ian in Florida there were 400,000 bee colonies in its path. Wow. And it took out a hundred thousand of them.

0 (12m 43s):
So what you're saying is that while, while bee theft is an issue, it pales in comparison to climate change.

5 (12m 48s):
Yes. Right now beekeepers are reporting that they're losing 40% of their hives per year. That is super far from sustainable and that's not because of theft. That 40% is a really scary number because a third of every bite of food that a human eats has to be pollinated by bees at some point. And so humanity really can't live without bees and with bees dying at such a high rate. There's some really big questions about how we continue to feed people

0 (13m 21s):
More with Halima in a minute.

11 (13m 32s):
Eyes

0 (13m 34s):
Today, explain back with Halima Shah who just reminded us how vital bees are to our food supply, but also how threatened they are right now. So threatened that we're seeing the honeybee population decline by 40% a year.

5 (13m 51s):
Yeah, max the beekeeper said California's drought is one of the major threats.

3 (13m 56s):
Bees need water like every human being and they need green so they need flowers and without the water everything is dry and dead. So there is no bloom, no green and so there's no food for the bees. So yes, it has affected the bees a lot and it has become very difficult to keep bees year round in the state of California, especially the Central Valley.

0 (14m 21s):
I love how he says Central Valley, but Pima, the central valley is green right now cuz of all the rain.

5 (14m 25s):
Yeah, California did have pretty torrential rainfalls by the time I got there. The ground had mostly dried. Huh. And one rainy season isn't going to make up for over a decade of dry periods

0 (14m 39s):
And, and is this drought why we're losing 40% of honeybees a year?

5 (14m 44s):
It's one of the reasons, but there are others like large scale beekeeping itself. I mean honeybees are working year round. Normally they would go dormant or die in the winter, but these bees basically never hibernate and they're being shipped to different parts of the country that's warmed. So they never have a winter season. So in February, March they're in California pollinating almonds in April, may they're in the Pacific Northwest for the apples and then in the summer they'll go to the east coast for cherries. So I ask Max if working without a winter break is bad for the bees,

3 (15m 21s):
That's a big debate in the industry I would say you have, you know, the natural way to look at it, they're naturally engineered to have a break and we are pushing them probably a little bit too much. This is also, you know what some people explain or put forward as one of the cause of, you know, the massive die outs, the colony collapse disorders, all the things that are causing beehives basically to die in intensive beekeeping countries. Hmm.

12 (15m 50s):
So how do you usually respond to those critics? What do you say?

3 (15m 53s):
I usually say okay, maybe there's other ways to do it. But at the same time, I mean we're not polluting and we're working on an insect that is non-destructive, providing sustainable service to nature and helping to produce food and achieve good yields so farmers can make a living in this country in a sustainable way.

5 (16m 15s):
But there's other sticky interconnected issues associated with these big beekeeping operations. When you have lots of bees in one place, that means the easy spread of disease. So the varroa mite for example, is this pest that spreads incredibly quickly and it kills bees. And if that has you thinking, okay then why do we have these concentrated beekeeping operations? The answer is that they're a byproduct of the way we farm, which is also enlarged concentrated operations. We have monocultures where you basically have one crop in a field at a time in really large quantities and that's great for feeding a lot of people at a low cost.

5 (16m 55s):
But it also requires using pesticides. Pests eat these crops incredibly quickly and farmers cannot expect to have a good yield without pesticides. The problem is, is that pesticides notoriously pose a risk to pollinators. So when your army of bees comes in to pollinate almonds, they're being exposed to chemicals that could impair them and lead to their death.

0 (17m 20s):
Okay. So we've got a host of issues here, shipping bees across the country, like they're probably some sort of circus. You've got disease, you've got pesticides, a bunch of things that are leading to this phenomenon where we're losing give our take half our bees year to year. Well what do we do Halima?

5 (17m 37s):
There are people trying to answer that question in southern California.

0 (17m 42s):
Oh I love Southern California.

5 (17m 48s):
So I went to to cyber the Center for Integrative, be research at uc, Riverside. Oh and it's your usual science department. Faculty offices a lab, but their lab has a live bees inside it and they study everything from be poop to be sperm. And the grad student who was showing me around actually said that cyber is a non-traditional beehive, which has a queen and a king who are Barbara Bar M hoof

13 (18m 16s):
Assistant specialist at the Center for Integrative be research

5 (18m 20s):
And Boris Bayer, her husband.

14 (18m 22s):
I'm leading a team of of people together with Barbara that works on oil diff aspects of Be health and how to save our six select trains.

5 (18m 35s):
So Boris and Barbara are basically working on a host of different solutions to save the bees and they have this one really fun one that I wanted to tell you about it. It has to do with saving the bees from pesticides. Okay. Basically, Barbara is working on something that would repel the bees from any field that has been recently sprayed with pesticides and what would repel them is a really nasty odor. What does it smell like?

13 (19m 3s):
Well one of the smells smells a bit like yogurt. That fruit yogurt very artificially.

5 (19m 10s):
The solution that they're really focusing on right now is actually on a special kind of bee that sort of has it all. It is able to withstand a lot of the issues that come with modern farming.

14 (19m 24s):
You might have heard of a bee that was artificially created in Brazil in 1957 crossing two different be types. That was the African bee and European B and it created a bee that was then turned Africanized bee and people became really afraid of that bee because it's very defensive.

1 (19m 45s):
It's

5 (19m 46s):
This the killer

14 (19m 46s):
Bee. Exactly. You name it. Right. I, I don't even use the word anymore. I, I don't think it was necessarily kind of a bee that was out there to kill people, but people were not used to that type of bee because it was more defensive, it spread, it escaped from that lab. It was extremely successful. It basically deals with all the environmental stressors that our managed bees. That's the reality now. The bee kind of was spreading north,

5 (20m 15s):
It was spread north all the way to Southern California. Huh. Where there are tons of these managed commercial bees that we use to pollinate crops. And what happens when one kind of bee meets another bee and they love each other very much, they

14 (20m 29s):
Hybridize. And so if you look at the genetics of the bees that we have here, they are not those Africanized bees any longer. It's a very different genotype. It's made up of four different types of bees. It's the genetically most diverse bee in the world.

5 (20m 50s):
And these hybrid bees are nicknamed survivor bees. They don't really need human management to make it in this world. They're also from really warm climates. So they've actually never had a winter vacation. These bees actually can work year round and they're much less defensive than the original Africanized bee from Brazil. But they still have the resiliency of that bee and they're especially resilient to drought.

13 (21m 14s):
Hmm. We suspect that they can upregulate certain proteins in their bodies to cope with heat for especially, so that will help them to cope with warmer temperatures in the better

14 (21m 26s):
These bees behave very differently. Our survivor bees here prefer soil so they go underground and they could be one of the adaptations of those bees to regulate humidity much more adequately.

5 (21m 39s):
Cyber is basically looking into breeding more bees that have these adaptation. Huh.

14 (21m 45s):
We start to kind of artificially inseminate them and propagate them. And then also some of the queens we have already started to give back to beekeepers so they can test them in their own, in their own lives.

0 (21m 54s):
Halima, no offense to Boris and Barbara, but I gotta imagine there's lots of people like them out there trying to dream up solutions to deal with our bee crisis. How real is what they're proposing here?

5 (22m 5s):
It's pretty real because survivor bees already exist in nature. The question is will they be effective enough once they're propagated and released out into the world and could there be unintended consequences? But you're right that this is not the only solution that's out there. Some people think technology is the answer and are looking to drones to pollinate crops instead of relying on bees.

0 (22m 31s):
Did Boris and Barbara seem reassured that there were solutions out of this crisis?

5 (22m 36s):
They did. Boris felt like the chaos of the pandemic actually made food supply and bees a much more top of mind issue.

14 (22m 45s):
I felt it was quite traumatic for some people that they realized, okay, food can't be taken for granted. Baba and me, both from Europe, our parents lived through the second World war. They said that is exactly like what we went through during the second World War. We got little coupons that we had to use to go to shop and we only got 30 grams of bottle per month or whatever it was. Right. So in that generation it was still present, but then like there was this in between generations and, and they got more and more used to it as it is just like everything is just available at all the times. And, and, and so the pandemic has clearly shown us like that's not the case. And we have all that follow up hiccup now these walls, these, these tensions between countries and that will have traumatic effects on the distribution of food.

5 (23m 34s):
Boris even said cyber started getting calls during the pandemic because people wanted to learn beekeeping so they could make their own honey. And because they loved showing people how that's done, Boris, Barbara and I got suited up and went to the cyber apiary, which is a little field around the corner from the building. Okay. The sign says caution. Do not enter. Honeybees will sting to protect their hive.

14 (23m 59s):
You are going to open

5 (24m 0s):
It. No, I'm not going to open it. I'm not ready for that yet. Okay. But Boris still kept trying to get me closer to the bees.

14 (24m 9s):
Do you wanna hold the frame?

5 (24m 12s):
Ooh, toe boy.

14 (24m 13s):
Okay. I hold your things.

5 (24m 14s):
All right. Alright.

14 (24m 16s):
Okay. She's now holding, I'm now live reporting from Riverside. I can do this. Yeah. You you're a pro. Yeah. So you are taking over a frame and how does that feel?

5 (24m 30s):
I feel so powerful. I feel like I've conquered a new fear. They don't seem to mind

0 (24m 37s):
Me. Wow. You love bees?

5 (24m 39s):
I don't love them. Love is a strong word. I just don't hate them.

0 (24m 43s):
You know what that is? Halima What? Progress.

5 (24m 46s):
Thank you.

0 (24m 47s):
Our show today was produced by Halima Shaw. It was edited by Matthew Collette, fact checked by Laura Bullard and engineered by Paul Robert Mosey. I'm Sean Ramos for today. Explained is on the radio and partnership with w n yc and we are part of the Vox Media podcast network. The rest of our team includes my co-host, Noelle King, our supervising producer, Amina Aldi. We got Aha, artsy, Haddi, ma Wadi, Amanda Lou, Ellen Miles, Brian Victoria Chamberlain, and s Petros. We had extra help from Jolie Myers and we used music by Breakmaster cylinder and Noam Hassenfeld. Noam helped me put together a little tribute to a theme, the Dream Shapiro.

0 (25m 30s):
It was our way of saying goodbye to a theme, but we thought we'd play it for you two. The show is over. You are not obliged to listen to it. But if you wanna, let me just set it up. A theme was here with us five years ago, almost to the day when we launched today. Explained at the time he was our one and only engineer. And that's a sort of confusing radio term for a job that's essential to any audio program you've ever heard. What it means is that he makes sure everything sounds as good as it possibly can. Always, or as a theme would say he butters the biscuit, he buttered the lion's share of the 1200 or so biscuits we've published here today, explained, and this week he's leaving us, but he's leaving a lot of butter behind.

0 (26m 15s):
So thank you AEM and God's speed. And as you hear now, he did a lot more than just butter the biscuit.

14 (26m 22s):
Okay, let's see what's on the radio.

16 (26m 24s):
Don't I just want bang on a drum day? Give it to me time.

5 (26m 42s):
Whoa. See,

17 (26m 43s):
Thank you for your hospitality. Ooh. And what else is in here? Rainbow, fentanyl. Go organ shooter.

18 (26m 57s):
Here we go again. Dude, I'm getting Pop Tarts for doing this. Just let me get my 15 minute break.

17 (27m 12s):
Wet ones, moist towels. They're convenient because they pop John and Dental Flo every day says s sob. Tell him to s h o v e. The j o b

18 (27m 41s):
Chop chop mu.

17 (27m 47s):
Today the academy has given us the greatest honor in podcasting. So why now? No, no, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. There's a mistake today explained. You guys won best podcast. I'm afraid they read the wrong thing today. Explained Best Daily News podcast.

18 (28m 9s):
Thank

17 (28m 10s):
Goodness. Thank you to a theme. This is our dream Shapiro. We did

18 (28m 15s):
It, brother. Stop wasting our time.

17 (28m 17s):
All right, Harvey, thanks again. Whoa, whoa.

18 (28m 21s):
Wait, wait, wait. Cut, cut, cut the music. Come on. What? What's up? Isn't this today explained? What's going on here

17 (28m 29s):
Today is gonna be explained. Yeah. Almost. Yeah. Okay. Go.

18 (28m 41s):
You've got bad eight minutes left. So make haste, scally

17 (28m 48s):
Wags the, the future

18 (28m 52s):
Of outside. We do nothing inside. We do nothing. So quarantine is just a boring

17 (29m 15s):
Oh, the single patties. All the single patties. All the single patties. Get your cheese out.

18 (29m 20s):
Do the one that sounds fun. Ding dong. Wow.

17 (29m 23s):
Rude. Oh, hey Zack. Tamar, we have taken your crew. What are you talking about? My crew is right here. Do their holograms. I I can see them. I I can look, I can I can touch them. My hands went right through. No arm's face. Are you still here? A BrakeMaster BrakeMaster has been a double agent this entire time. But, but, but her and now a theme, the dream. We are coming for you. Don't take me, take

1 (29m 50s):
Care of Swisher.

17 (29m 51s):
Is it worth it? Let me work it. Go. It's too early for this. So stop stifling your yawns. Oh God. Open wide and yawn with pride. We will not go quietly into the night. We will not vanish without a fight. Today we celebrate our yawn dependence day.

18 (30m 14s):
You are so beautiful,

17 (30m 17s):
Dirty projectors.

18 (30m 19s):
Finally, you've got a minute left to wrap up the show in

17 (30m 45s):
Shapiro.

5 (30m 50s):
No one today explained speaks Ukrainian, but our engineer Shapiro does speak some Russian and he volunteered to translate. Would you tell me your full name?

17 (31m 1s):
<unk> That is in the, in the <unk>. I'm, I'm so sorry.

5 (31m 14s):
So, Mr. Told, hold on a second. Let me call my

19 (31m 21s):
Hello? <unk>

17 (31m 25s):
Yulia. My name is Aem Shapiro.

21 (31m 27s):
When I was young, I would look up at the stars trying to take in the vastness of it all. I would imagine myself hurling through the infinite expanse in search of answers to ancient mysteries, ready to fight for a better future. Ever since I was little, I have been a warrior. I'm ready to step out into the unknown, to take on the ultimate challenge. I close my eyes, I know where I must go.

18 (32m 27s):
Goodbye forever.