LinkedIn (1s):
The world of work is changing fast from employers to their employees. Everyone is looked at how they work over the last year. Some changes might be temporary others permanent, but every decision will require more consideration than ever. Like how can employers balance a wide range of worker needs while satisfying their own profit needs? And what might you want to keep or toss out from last year's workplace changes. Introducing LinkedIn's new mini-series reshuffle. It's all about the future of work and what it'll mean for you. Join the conversation@linkedin.com slash future of work using the hashtag future of work. LinkedIn we're in it together.

ClickUp (44s):
Support for the shutter that comes from click up. According to whom we lose an average of three hours every day, switching between all of our work apps, but you can get them back with KickUp of flexible platform that brings all of your essential tools into one place where you can prioritize tasks, collaborate on docs and chat with your team and track goals. It's why companies like Uber and web flow use click up as their mission control center. Replacing every other app they were using before click up even guarantees to help you save one day a week and get more done. It's completely customizable and it's free forever. So try click up today@clickup.com slash today.

1 (1m 23s):
Explain it's today explained I'm Sean Rama's from, and I don't know where you thought we'd be with this pandemic in September, 2021, but I definitely didn't see horse paste coming. There

2 (1m 47s):
Are a lot of crazy news stories in the last couple of years, but this one just struck me as particularly nuts.

1 (1m 52s):
Marissa KBS wrote about horse paste for Huffington post,

2 (1m 57s):
And I really wanted to understand how people ended up eating horse place, because it didn't make any sense to me.

1 (2m 3s):
And in case this makes no sense to you. When we say horse paste, we mean the active ingredient in the horse, paced a drug called ivermectin

3 (2m 14s):
And pace sales are on the rise at forum supply stores, all because people think it can cure COVID-19.

1 (2m 22s):
It is an anti-parasitic it's been used in humans and animals for decades. The human dose usually comes as a tablet, not a paste. It's creators won the Nobel prize, and then you got to fast forward a few decades. We get the coronavirus than the vaccines, and now

4 (2m 39s):
We've seen a pretty good increase in the ag I've ever met. I don't know if it's from cows getting more on me or others issues, but it's hard to get right now. Marissa

1 (2m 53s):
Wanted to find out how ivermectin specifically in the form of horse pay started flying off the shelves.

2 (2m 59s):
And so I just started going down a Twitter rabbit hole as all my investigations, pretty much begin and found all these people referencing an organization called the NFL, triple C the front line COVID-19 critical care Alliance.

5 (3m 16s):
What is that? I

2 (3m 17s):
Had no idea and it kept seeing it come up. So I found out that they are an Alliance of doctors, kind of loosely affiliated from around the United States and now around the world. And they just put their heads together in early COVID to try and figure out how can we treat this pandemic? A lot of them were critical care specialists who are working in ER at the time. And the first came up with this protocol to use steroids, to treat COVID. And at the time people called them crazy. They said, you can't use steroids for that. What are you talking about? And then within a few months, that became a part of the protocol for treating COVID patients in hospitals, around the country

5 (3m 59s):
For every 25 patients in the ICU treated with either dexamethasone or hydrocortisone deaths fell from 10 to eight.

2 (4m 8s):
So they kind of felt emboldened by this early success that they were proven, right? And so they said, okay, let's take it a step further. And let's find the thing that will help us prevent it and treat it. And that's how they landed on ivermectin. So they developed these two protocols, one for prevention and one for treatment. And they incorporated ivermectin into both of them starting in October of last year. And it was just sort of spread throughout the internet, spread through their different networks. I mean their doctors working at major institutions. And then in December of last year, Dr. Pierre, Cory who's, one of the founders was giving Senate testimony at the invitation of Senator Ron Johnson from Wisconsin.

2 (4m 54s):
And he called it a miracle drug

5 (4m 58s):
Tins of data have emerged from all from many centers and countries around the world, showing the miraculous effectiveness of ivermectin. If you take it, you will not get sick. It has the immense and

1 (5m 10s):
Pussy, right. Is ivermectin America,

2 (5m 12s):
Not for COVID no, it's not.

1 (5m 18s):
But that is what he was trying to say. He was trying to say that it's a miracle treatment. Yes.

2 (5m 23s):
There have been a number of small studies around the world and he believes that those proved its efficacy, but there hasn't been a large scale trial yet to really prove that. And a lot of those small studies have a lot of ethical issues. One

6 (5m 38s):
Of the largest studies involving ivermectin, the drug that was being administered worldwide to treat COVID patients has been withdrawn, amid concerns of plagiarism and problems with their role data editor. A lot of things

1 (5m 50s):
Get said in Senate testimony that do not go mainstream, how does ivermectin become such a buzzy treatment? So,

2 (6m 0s):
So Dr. Corey's testimony kind of became this right wing lore when it was posted on the CSPAN YouTube page and subsequently pulled down as a COVID misinformation. And so people started to think, what are they trying to hide from us

6 (6m 20s):
Best band, any videos that even mentioned ivermectin as a possible COVID treatment, but here's the kicker alphabet and 12% of Vecsey tick who created the AstraZeneca vaccine on these conflicts of interests.

2 (6m 33s):
It was feeding into this idea that big tech was somehow getting involved in censoring COVID information and that they didn't want us to know about ivermectin. And the truth was that there was just not enough evidence to prove that it was effective and YouTube didn't want to be responsible for hosting a video that says to the contrary, however, they have no problem hosting videos about how people can do it yourself with horse paste.

7 (7m 4s):
Hi guys, I wanted to do a quick video. I had several people asking if I could show how to do the tube for the horse paced properly. And those have been out for months. It does have a very bitter taste. I can compare it to dandy. Lions has, has a very bitter taste, but just put it in your mouth, swallow it, and your dose will be over with.

1 (7m 35s):
So that's how the horse treatment becomes popular over say the human treatment.

2 (7m 41s):
Yes. So people hear about ivermectin late last year, they are asking their doctors to prescribe it to them as a preventative measure for COVID. And most good doctors are saying, no, that's not FDA approved for that. In fact, the FDA specifically said last year, don't use ivermectin for COVID. And so people realized, well, there isn't ivermectin, that's available over the counter. It's just for animals. But what if we took it and portioned it out for humans, it's based on weight. So you just do it for a human size instead of a horse size. And they thought this was a really clever fix.

1 (8m 22s):
And is the FLC CCC, the frontline COVID critical. Caroline's aware that people are, are doling out horse ivermectin for humans. They

2 (8m 33s):
Are aware, but they are not doing enough to distance themselves from that. Because I think their perspective is that all press for ivermectin is good press. I mean, this has been around for a number of months now, but it blew up a couple of weeks ago when the FDA issued a tweets and you are not a horse, you are not a cow.

1 (8m 57s):
It's the FDA try to be cute on Twitter,

2 (8m 60s):
Like flat into my DDMs. Let's talk about ivermectin. Like it's weird. I mean, I imagine they were trying to get people to stop, but it actually had the opposite effect of course, and organizations like the FLC CC and people who are pro ivermectin, saw that as an attempt to undermine all their research and all the good work that they've done in prescribing it for humans. And they felt like it was a concerted effort to tie the drug to the horse medication and make it seem completely ridiculous. And so it's become very conspiratorial

1 (9m 38s):
And nothing fans conspiracy better than Joe Rogan. Yeah. Yeah.

2 (9m 43s):
I mean, Dr. Corey was on Joe Rogan a couple months ago. First of all,

8 (9m 48s):
Dr. Corey, please explain who you are and introduce yourself.

9 (9m 51s):
Yeah, sure. So I'm a lung. And

2 (9m 55s):
Since that big pharma and the government are pushing the vaccine and that's why they don't want you to know about ivermectin. No one

9 (10m 2s):
Is one of the safest drugs in history. It's been mass distributed across continents, billions of doses. And they want to bring up questions around safety while there are other guidelines for the other diseases that I've remapped in is from the who they all would. They'll write in there that billions of dose has been administered. The side effects are minor and trans.

8 (10m 23s):
So they're inconsistent depending upon what disease they're talking about. Ivermectin being

1 (10m 26s):
Prescribed with COVID, they are off the reservation is what are the criticisms?

2 (10m 31s):
And he was on his boat with Bret Weinstein, who is a very popular anti-vaxxer has a podcast of his own. And so the millions of people listen to Joe Rogan who are looking for an alternative to the vaccine were handed one. Do we

1 (10m 46s):
Have any idea how many people are actually doing this versus how much people on the internet want to talk about doing this or not doing this?

2 (10m 53s):
I don't think we could really quantify it at this point. There's a viral story about Oklahoma emergency rooms being so overrun by ivermectin patients that they weren't letting gunshot victims come in. And that turned out to be not entirely true. So there's a lot of misinformation flying around, but it's flying around from both sides because I feel like this conflation of everyone's taking horse medication with no people are trying to take this human medication and just getting creative. It sort of sets up this idea that people came to this on their own because they're idiots. When in fact they were fed this idea by influential people and then it just kind of spun out of their control.

2 (11m 40s):
And so at this point, we have lots of people talking about people taking horse pays, but as far as how many are actually doing it, you know, sitting down and portioning out livestock drug from themselves, we don't know yet

1 (11m 53s):
Is Dr. Corey and this organization, he belongs to the frontline COVID critical care lines. Are they all anti-vax?

2 (12m 1s):
I asked Dr. Corey what the makeup was of the doctors there, like, are they split between VAX anti-vax and Provax? And he said, there's a mixture, but then he himself contracted COVID recently. And they've been very upfront that I ever mentioned is not good on the Delta variant. It does not work against the Delta variant. And that's what Dr. Corey got. And he was very lucky to have recovered from his case of COVID. But he said he was taking, I ever imagined for eight to nine months before he got it. And then afterwards, he doesn't need to get the vaccine because he has natural immunity. Now,

1 (12m 41s):
I think a thing that sort of frustrates a lot of people about this horse pay situation is that it sounds like people are more willing to try a drug intended for horses than a COVID vaccination that has been broadly tested and shown to have, you know, historic efficacy. Yeah.

2 (13m 6s):
I don't think more people are trying it than the vaccine. I mean, our vaccine rates as a country continue to go up. I believe the latest number I saw is that 53% of the population is fully vaccinated. 63% has at least one shot. So we're definitely trending in the right direction, but there are still a good amount of people who just want to try an alternative because they just don't trust anything that the government is telling them, but they trust what some random person in a Facebook group says. And that is just a reflection on our media ecosystem, the way people digest media these days.

2 (13m 46s):
And it's really tough watching people just reject real good medical advice.

1 (14m 2s):
Marissa CAPAs is a freelance journalist. You can find her piece on horse paste at the Huffington post at this point. There's no good evidence that ivermectin works, but we'll talk about some treatments that do in a minute on today, explain

BetterHelp (14m 42s):
support for the shoulder. It comes from better help. Do you ever text someone looking for some validation, some counsel, just some support, and then you never hear back. And then you're just wondering, did they even see the text? Did they forget about it? Do they not like me anymore? Are they ignoring me? Do, do you have your read receipts on or off? Do they have theirs on or off? I keep mine off because I don't want people to know when I see their messages, because that, for some reason it feels like just another layer of social interaction that I don't need. But do you even call them read receipts or do you call them and say, I've, I've heard both anyway. You know, who always answers? You know, who you don't need to worry about read receipts or read receipts, better help.

BetterHelp (15m 25s):
And today explain the sponsored by better help online therapy and our listeners get 10% off their first month of online therapy@betterhelp.com slash explained that is better. htlp.com/explained. Get matched with a better health therapist who will respond and get started

Vitamin Water (15m 50s):
Being good to our bodies. Doesn't have to taste bad. In fact, good should taste good, good, or than good even it should taste great. That's why vitamin water is amping up the good in every bottle with the delicious mix of the vitamins, minerals and nutrients, every body craves strawberry meets biotin and vitamin C and vitamin water shine for happy hair and zinc calcium and magnesium. Get together with lemonade to give squeeze a delicious and nutritious boost from head to toe and everything in between the new vitamin water is here to add more good vibes, good things, and good flavors to your day.

Vitamin Water (16m 32s):
So go ahead and do something good. Grab a bottle of the new vitamin water and find out just how good good can taste.

1 (16m 48s):
Kelsey Piper. You're a staff writer with boxes future. Perfect. What non horse treatments are out there to help with COVID-19.

3 (16m 55s):
So we're in a much better position than we were a year and a half ago when this hit, we've developed a lot of treatments that are reasonably effective. You know, both at saving people who are in the hospital and preventing things from even getting that far in the first place. There has been a lot of recent evidence coming out for like dexamethazone, which is administered to people in the hospital who have severe COVID and studies have shown significantly reduce the risk that those people end up dying. And there are treatments like monoclonal antibodies that are intended to help prevent them from getting hospitalized in the first place. That's one of the treatments that Trump took when he got sick last, but

11 (17m 31s):
Anyway, I took his drug. I wasn't feeling good. It said transfusion, as they say, like one hour and the next day I felt like Superman, I got up and said, what the hell is going on?

3 (17m 44s):
It is reasonably effective against hospitalization.

1 (17m 48s):
So are these two, the monoclonal antibodies and dexamethazone are they enough? Can we be like, all right, we're we're good now.

3 (17m 56s):
So not, not exactly like this is a huge improvement over the situation a while ago, but the big downside of dexamethazone is it is only helpful against severe disease. It actually has negative effects if it's administered early in the course of illness, because it suppresses the immune system and then monoclonal antibodies are a really big step forward, but they cost $2,000 a dose in the U S that's paid for by the government. So you're not paying it out of pocket, but it means it's not an option for lots of people worldwide who are experiencing COVID. And then, because you have to go get an infusion under medical supervision, even in the U S a lot of people aren't doing that. So we still really need a COVID treatment that can happen early that's cheap, and that doesn't need medical supervision to administer.

3 (18m 39s):
If we want to like really change the course of the disease. Are we working on one of those? Yes. So researchers have been looking since the start of the pandemic for something like that. And I think right now the evidence is starting to shape up that there are some good options. One exciting one is fluvoxamine flu Vox mean fluvoxamine the brand is strong. Nancy.

1 (19m 2s):
It's an antidepressant like, like Prozac or Zoloft or something.

3 (19m 9s):
It is in that genre. It is an SSRI. So, so Zoloft is also an SSRI. It, it is cheap and generic. It's been around in the us since the nineties. And it's approved by the FDA already for the treatment of OCD. Why are people using this to treat COVID? So back at the start of the pandemic, a researcher at the university of Washington, St. Louis had been researching patients with a rare genetic disease that caused cellular stress response. And she noticed that fluvoxamine for whatever reason, seem to like really improve things for those patients. And she looked it up and there was some research suggesting that antidepressants in general, but fluvoxamine especially manages cellular stress response.

3 (19m 49s):
And in particular managers like the cytokine storm and the inflammation, that's what causes so much lung damage in COVID.

1 (19m 57s):
Was that like a surprising finding that an antidepressant is a great COVID treatment.

3 (20m 3s):
Certainly people tried at the start of the pandemic, lots and lots of cheap, generic drugs that were known to be safe, just hoping that something would turn up some COVID benefits. And the overwhelming majority of them did not, which isn't surprising because why would most drugs work against COVID? But a couple of them turned out to work, which is really good news for the fight against

1 (20m 22s):
COVID. This isn't just like random anecdotal evidence, right there there've been some larger trials. I hope.

3 (20m 28s):
Yes, absolutely. And they got really promising results, a big difference between the control group and the experimental group in the odds of the disease. Getting more severe, depending on whether take taken fluvoxamine. But, you know, that's a small trial, as we saw with ivermectin. Sometimes you see one trial that has like exciting results, but then it turns out there's nothing. When you go a little bit deeper. So starting this winter, a team at McMaster university with has been running a really large thousands of patients. Multi-armed clinical trial added fluvoxamine to the list of treatments that they were studying, and they gave 800 patients fluvoxamine and noticed about a 30% reduction in hospitalization as a result of taking the fluvoxamine.

3 (21m 12s):
So that's a smaller benefit than monoclonal antibodies, but monoclonal antibodies cost $2,000 a dose and the box mean costs $4 a dose. So pretty promising.

1 (21m 23s):
So will this drug be authorized to treat COVID and not just as a, you know, like a thing that people tried on their own one time, the

3 (21m 31s):
FDA has already authorized fluvoxamine for OCD. And the way that things work is that once a drug is fully authorized by the FDA, not an emergency use authorization, but just a standard full authorization, this drug is safe, then doctors can prescribe it off label for other uses. And this is super common in general. And it's common with fluvoxamine in particular, because it's only technically approved for OCD, but it is also commonly prescribed as an antidepressant. So doctors could in principle now look at the evidence-based and go, okay. I feel confident also prescribing this for COVID treatment, but a lot of them might be reluctant to do that. So there's also the potential that the FDA will review the evidence and formally authorized, or at least change its clinical recommendations with respect to the drug and COVID as well.

3 (22m 20s):
And that hasn't happened yet, probably because the McMaster study went up like a week ago, but over time as more evidence comes out, I think we'll see government officials sort of revisit their clinical recommendations just as we learned more

1 (22m 34s):
Kelsey, we understand why fluvoxamine is maybe better than the horse paced ivermectin situation.

3 (22m 43s):
So I think it would be a mistake to have the takeaway from the ivermectin situation, be repurposed treatments, don't work. I think the correct takeaway there is like you have to actually run high quality clinical trials that randomized the population report. All of their data are published, are transparent, make their methodology really clear. The ivermectin studies are really, really bad. And as a result like they can't teach us that whether their drug works, the fluvoxamine studies are higher quality. And actually the together trial at McMaster university, the large randomized trial that found promising results for fluvoxamine also had an ivermectin arm and their finding was that ivermectin just doesn't work.

3 (23m 23s):
So you got to think about the difference between these drugs as like when we conduct high quality studies, what do we find? And you shouldn't say, okay, we couldn't take ivermectin because it's a repurposed drug. That would be the wrong lesson. You shouldn't take ivermectin because the data really doesn't hold up and it doesn't look like it works.

1 (23m 43s):
But like last week, the talk of the town was horse pace and ivermectin, why isn't fluvoxamine getting much attention or is that just my perception?

3 (23m 51s):
Nope, that's that is my perception as well. The <inaudible> conversation is a hundred times louder and more enthusiastic than the fluvoxamine conversation. Despite the fact that I think the evidence-base for fluvoxamine looks a lot better. I sort of think that the fact that <inaudible> is discouraged by the FDA and the fact that the evidence-base around it is so mixed and that a lot of people are, you know, saying there's nothing here has encouraged the Everett Becton fandom rather than sort of putting a damper on it. Like in a lot of ways, I think people are looking for something that is suppressed by the FDA. Something that, you know, the government won't tell them about. Mm.

1 (24m 31s):
So the government needs to say, don't take fluvoxamine and then it'll get the bus. You

3 (24m 37s):
Know, I can't rule that out. These are kind of crazy times, but it seems possible that more people would take fluvoxamine if the FDA condemned it as, I don't know what the equivalent of horse pastes for

0 (25m 6s):
Piper writes for future perfect and Vox today's show is produced by we'll read with help from Amina Alsada stay safe. People

SingleStore.com (25m 45s):
You don't wear acid wash jeans anymore. So why would you use databases that were built when they were still all the rage scaling modern SAS is already hard. So let the single store cloud introduced simplicity and ease to your data structure. Single store is a modern cloud database built for today's data intensive applications and the smart SAS generation single store powers. The new wave of SAS technology is displacing legacy providers. Use it to break the data bottleneck and reduce your monthly cloud bill in the process. See for yourself at single store.com/tri-free.

Rent the Runway (26m 21s):
When was the last time you were excited about getting dressed the endless cycle of comfy clothes? Well, it has its benefits is getting boring and it's time to get some new options in the mix with rent the runway, you can gain access to a constantly rotating closet, full of designer pieces, easy to use, and with zero commitment, rent the runway charges, a flat affordable monthly subscription rate, which you can pause or cancel at any going back into the office or heading out for a patio happy hour. You can enjoy the highs of wearing new designer clothes without the lows of buyer's remorse. Use promo code, get 30 for 30% off. It's only valid for a limited time. So visit rent the runway.com today terms and conditions apply.