1 (3s):
Summer,

2 (6s):
We're in the thick of summer, which means we've got fires.

3 (8s):
More than 400 wildfires are burning across Canada from the Western provinces to Quebec, turning the sky bright orange.

2 (16s):
We've got heat waves.

4 (17s):
Ocean temperatures off the coast of Florida this week surpassed a hundred degrees, feeling more like a hot tub than a proper ocean.

2 (25s):
We've got records to break

5 (27s):
New data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Noah shows this past July was the hottest on record

2 (34s):
At Matt. In the meantime, we've got a president who's accomplished more than any other in history on the climate.

6 (40s):
We did it. We did it, Joe,

2 (43s):
But there are a lot of climate activists who say it isn't enough. They want President Biden to declare a climate emergency, what that would mean, and whether there's any chance he'll do it coming up on today, explain.

7 (1m 0s):
Most Britney Spears fans are just happy she's finally free from that conservatorship. But some Britney fans don't think she's really free yet. They aren't even sure they're seeing the real Britney.

8 (1m 11s):
There's a big part of the movement that has been really, really laser focused on what they see as abnormalities or, or oddities or glitches. In some of her posts, there's theories that she's been replaced with AI or a body double or clone.

7 (1m 26s):
Wow. The Britney Spears Conspiracy Theory and what it says about fandom. This week on Intuit Vultures Pop Culture podcast

1 (1m 42s):
Explained

2 (1m 46s):
Zach Coleman is a climate and energy reporter on the text side of Politico, but he dabbles in the occasional audio interview.

9 (1m 53s):
I wouldn't call myself a pro, but I've done a few. So

2 (1m 57s):
We reached out to him to find out more about what a declaration of a climate emergency would look like in the United States, but we started with Joe Biden's record on the issue.

9 (2m 6s):
Well, I think that you look at some of the bills that have passed into law, and it's hard to say anything, but he's the most accomplished climate president that the US has ever had, ever, ever.

10 (2m 18s):
The Inflation Reduction Act invests $369 billion to take the most aggressive action ever, ever, ever, ever. In confronting the climate crisis. I mean

9 (2m 32s):
$369 billion in climate and clean energy incentives in the Inflation Reduction Act. That's his signature climate law that was signed into law in August, 2022. This

10 (2m 43s):
Bill is the biggest step forward on climate ever, ever. It's gonna allow, it's gonna allow us to boldly take additional steps toward meeting all of my climate goals and the ones we set out when we ran,

9 (2m 56s):
He passed a bipartisan infrastructure law that also devoted tens of billion of dollars to clean energy and to climate resilience, things that makes communities stronger against storms and heat waves and things of that nature. This

10 (3m 11s):
Law builds back our bridges, our water systems, our power lines, our levies better and stronger. So few Americans be flooded out of their homes or lose power in those days and weeks with consequence of storms had hit.

2 (3m 24s):
So are environmentalists rather pleased with him. If he's, you know, the most accomplished president ever on the climate,

9 (3m 31s):
They're certainly pleased with him. I mean, look at what the Inflation Reduction Act projects to do. It's going to buy some modeling, reduce us emissions 40 plus percent below 2005 levels by the end of the decade. And that's still short of President Biden's goal of cutting those emissions in half by the end of the decade. This 10 percentage point gap to fill to avoid the worst of the climate change from coming to fruition. And one way to do that is through declaring a national emergency through what's known as the National Emergencies Act, which would then grant a whole bunch of other executive powers to the president.

11 (4m 13s):
We are dealing with an existential crisis, and the existential crisis requires solutions that are commensurate with the crisis that we're dealing with.

9 (4m 23s):
It would grant him tremendous power to marshal federal resources, taxpayer dollars towards building cleaner energy systems, incentivizing private companies to produce greener appliances and products. It could also give 'em the ability to stop exports of crude oil to end all federal oil and gas drilling like in the Gulf of Mexico. A lot of people compare this to a wartime mobilization like World War ii.

12 (4m 55s):
All America alters its pattern of life and work to meet the demand for protection.

9 (4m 60s):
So there is this idea that to rapidly reduce climate change and the emissions that are causing it, that you need to get all sectors of the economy and society marching in one direction. And it was something that he did entertain.

2 (5m 17s):
Biden was actually thinking about doing this

9 (5m 19s):
Well, so What happened was there was this months long negotiation over build back better.

13 (5m 26s):
The reason his $1.75 trillion build back better plan has not advanced in the US Senate is almost entirely due to one Senator, Senator Joe Manchin, whose primary concern repeated over and over again is inflation.

9 (5m 39s):
And abruptly. In July of 2022, Joe Manchin said, you know what deal's done? I'm not, I'm not doing this. This is a no. So we have this period of time in middle of July where the climate community is all up in arms saying, Joe Manchin from West Virginia who loves coal and natural gas killed our climate bill. So Mr. President, can you please declare a climate emergency since Congress is never going to do what it needs to do to confront the climate crisis? And you would see the White House entertain this conversation. They never shot it down.

14 (6m 19s):
I would not plan a, a announcement this week on National Climate Emergency. Again, everything is on the table. It's just not going to be this week on that decision.

9 (6m 30s):
And there was an event not long after Build Back Better, had publicly died that President Biden was going to be speaking in Massachusetts. It was billed to this big climate event. We thought he might say, this is going to be a climate emergency. I'm going to declare it. He did not end up saying that he called it an emergency. He walked right up to the line, but he not declare a climate emergency.

10 (6m 55s):
Climate change is an emergency and in the coming weeks, I'm gonna use the power I have as president to turn these words into formal, official government actions through the appropriate proclamations, executive orders and regulatory power that the president possesses.

9 (7m 10s):
We walk away from that event. And you know, if you're a climate activist, you're like, well, that was disappointing. A few weeks later, lo and behold, we start hearing about this thing called the Inflation Reduction Act. And Joan Manchin is putting out a press release about it, and this is the revived climate bill that ends up getting passed into law in August of 2022.

2 (7m 30s):
So on on one side, you've got this sort of obvious tension between Joe Biden's Climate Agenda and Congress. And then on the other side, you've got him still managing to be the most historic president in terms of taking action here. And then you've got this tricky word emergency, which he's used, but he hasn't gone as far as declaring a climate emergency. Correct me if I'm wrong, but he doesn't need Congress to declare a climate emergency. Correct.

9 (8m 1s):
He does not need Congress. Many presidents have declared national emergencies before, and here's the clearest example. President Trump, when he was president, declared a national emergency at the border. This is what got him to justify building a border wall and using military funds had been appropriated for another purpose to build his wall. And this is something that got litigated. He was sued of course, but the Supreme Court ended up siding with President Trump and say, yes, you can take those funds. This is a national emergency. You can build your wall with those funds. This is the same exact model that climate activists are hoping President Biden will pursue, but for climate.

9 (8m 48s):
And their idea is, well, the Supreme Court already said that this is cool, so you don't have to worry about it, Mr. President, go ahead and do it. I don't know if that would be the case with the Supreme Court. I, every case is different of course, but a president can pull funds from different places to fulfill a national emergency obligation, and that is the model here.

2 (9m 20s):
So do we know why he hasn't just declared a climate emergency?

9 (9m 23s):
I mean, there's tricky politics here. I think that he's very responsive to blue collar voters in places that President Biden needed to win like Pennsylvania to even get into the White House. There's this tremendous anxiety about the clean energy transition for entire sectors of the economy and regions of the country. And I think that President Biden gets that

10 (9m 49s):
We're still gonna need oil and gas for a while, but guess what? No, we do, but there's so much more to do. We gotta finish the job.

9 (10m 1s):
That's why he advocated for technologies like carbon capture or green hydrogen that are viewed as sort of false solutions by a lot of the climate activist community that ended up voting for President Biden. But it's seen as a way to extend a lifeline to fossil fuel workers and blue collar workers that says essentially, you can continue producing this stuff, these fossil fuels, but we're just gonna make sure the emissions from them don't get into the atmosphere and make climate change worse. Now again, a lot of this technology is not massively available at scale.

9 (10m 41s):
It's very expensive. So that's viewed as a way to just extend the fossil fuel industry and keep them in business without actually affecting emissions. So there is a, a concern here about the moral hazard, but I think President Biden knows that declaring by fiat that we are going to marshal all the federal resources towards climate change is going to not sit well with a large portion of the country. And that is one of the reasons he doesn't do it. I, I don't know what the upside is though, for energizing voters who have grown, disillusioned with some of the moves the president has made, like approving the Willow oil project in Alaska.

9 (11m 31s):
There's also the issue of precedent setting. Does President Biden want to, with all the culture warring that's going on in this country, declare a national emergency for climate change? When a President Trump, who when he was in office, tried to get federal resources to prop up coal plants, would he want to risk President Trump doing something in reverse if Trump were to win reelection? I mean, you can envision a world in which a second term, Donald Trump says, the opioid crisis is an epidemic and we need to subsidize coal mines and coal plants to provide good paying jobs for people to get them away from this cycle and to provide economic opportunity for people.

9 (12m 22s):
I mean it, it doesn't seem that far a stretch.

2 (12m 32s):
Zach Coleman is with Politico. Read his work@politico.com. I'm Sean Ramas firm when we're back on today, explained what's to be done closer to home in the absence of a big federal declaration from the president.

Noom (12m 55s):
Support for today's show comes from Noom. There's a lot of advice about what you should and shouldn't eat out there, but Noom is focused on why you eat. Noom uses science and personalization to help you manage your weight for the long term. And Noom psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors and you decide how Noom fits into your life, not the other way around. Sarah Frank, who works on the business side of stuff at Vox Media, she tried out Noom. Hi, I'm Sarah Frank and I've been trying out Noom. I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed and days that I'm less stressed, I'm eating more. I really appreciated the ability to log my meals and then see a visual tracker and I found that visual feedback to be really helpful and a great reinforcer each day. You can sign up for your trial today at Noom dot com. That's N O O m.com to sign up for your trial today.

NetSuite (13m 55s):
Support for today, explain comes from NetSuite. NetSuite believes it's almost Impossible to make great decisions with bad information, especially if you're running a business that generates millions of dollars of revenue. Are you? That's fantastic. Streamlining your operation and ensuring that your next move is successful requires much more than just know-how and that fake confidence. NetSuite by Oracle is a cloud-based business software solution that can deliver the visibility and data you need to make better decisions. Right now, NetSuite is offering new users full access and full implementation of their service with no payments and no interest for six months. That means you'll get access to everything NetSuite offers, tools to help reduce manual processes, boost efficiency, build forecasts, increase productivity, no cost six months. If you happen to have been sizing up NetSuite to make the switch, then you know this deal is unprecedented. No interest, no payments. You can take advantage of thisspecial financing offer by going to netsuite.com/explained netsuite.com/explained. To get the visibility and control you need to weather any storm netsuite.com/explained.

17 (15m 4s):
Yo, it's that heat. It's heat. That heat, that heat. It's that heat

2 (15m 12s):
Today explain is back. Extreme heat is the number one weather related killer of Americans. In fact, in your average year, extreme heat kills more people than hurricanes, floods, and tornadoes combined. But the president will not declare a climate emergency to really mobilize the nation into action. So what are we to do in the meantime? Yeah,

18 (15m 33s):
It's a very important and timely question, the idea of how do we adapt to a changing climate? We reached

2 (15m 40s):
Out to Professor Vivek Honus for an answer. He focuses on climate adaptation at Portland State University.

18 (15m 46s):
So to begin with, many places are experiencing temperatures that are at the same hour, 15 to 20 degrees warmer than a, a place right next to a specific neighborhood. And that has a lot to do with what is on that landscape, how the heat is retained and put back out into the environment. So first thing that cities and regions need to do is really start focusing in on what are those differences and where are the places that are in fact hotter and face some more of the extreme climate events, and who are the communities that might not be able to cope as well to these extreme events? One of the first things I suggest people do is get the data.

18 (16m 28s):
Second is really to start thinking about heat action plan where we actually develop a systematic process that describes the different effects on the sectors in that region. A place like California, for example, would have a lot of concern over agricultural workers. It's a massive agricultural productive state and having safeguards for outdoor workers, agricultural workers is not currently in any federal or many local legislation. And we need to be thinking about a heat action plan that really centers those communities that are facing many of these impacts. First and worst,

19 (17m 4s):
According to a study by the National Institutes of Health, farm workers are 35 times more likely to die of heat exposure than workers in other industries. Construction workers have 13 times the risk.

18 (17m 17s):
A place like Florida would have a variety of issues related to the cascading effects of heat combined with hurricanes combined with storm surge and flooding.

20 (17m 29s):
Tonight, parts of South Florida are underwater. Meteorologists are calling the historic flooding a one in 1000 year rainfall event. Flash flooding prompted dozens of emergency rescues and forced drivers to abandon their cars.

18 (17m 42s):
And so these heat action plans would really need to think about how those cascading events might disproportionately affect communities in a region. Then at the neighborhood scale, we have to start talking about things like district energy. What does it look like to have a lot more air conditioning or heat pumps coming in, but a, an energy system at that district or neighborhood scale that may fail because it's just not ready for the kind of demand that we're seeing in on the infrastructure system. So we really need to start thinking about that. Also at the neighborhood bus stops and other places where people spend a lot of time outdoors trying to think about how do we cool those spaces. There's some amazing programs, for example with neighborhood greening, city block greening happening in Washington dc.

18 (18m 27s):
There's some phenomenal kind of green corridors happening across cities in Columbia, south America where entire alleyways and corridors are set up with greening and really thinking about building codes. We need to get this into the systemic level where currently we have no requirements for developers to design buildings, develop buildings for heat, and so there's some voluntary options that developers have, but right now we really have nothing at the federal, local regional scale that requires developers to start building with materials that actually deflect the heat, whether it's lighter color. There's a massive program happening in South Asia and India specifically that's looking at white paint on roofs of all different forms of development.

18 (19m 13s):
Whether it's informal developments or whether it's large high rises or even single family residential homes. It can cool an area by upwards of nine to 11 degrees Fahrenheit actually by putting that white paint directly on a building or a roof.

2 (19m 34s):
If something as simple as white paint could make a big difference, why haven't we covered everything in white paint?

18 (19m 40s):
He'd be surprised how difficult it is to get many of these strategies deployed. They may sound very straightforward, but there are a remarkable number of restrictions, whether it's homeowners association restrictions at the very kind of neighborhood level that require specific colors and not specific colors to be put on buildings or roads or rooftops. Developers are often struggling to find white shingles on rooftops. We often find brown or black shingles relatively easy, but white shingles are not something you can go to Home Depot and pick up relatively easily. Putting white paint directly on shingles of roofs is often not advisable because it degrades that roof material over time.

18 (20m 22s):
Now not all white paint is gonna behave essentially the same. We've seen recent studies coming out from various universities showing whiter and whiter colored paint, very, very white paint. In other words, Purdue

21 (20m 34s):
University researchers have created the whitest paint on record. The paint is so white. I am its favorite part of SS n l

18 (20m 42s):
And you'd be surprised that getting really white paint meaning one that would reflect almost 100% of the sun solar radiation is remarkably complicated engineering feat because they're getting the pigment. That white pigment to that really precise true white state is not something that humans have really done very often. And so what we're really talking about is trying to get a level of white that is, that's engineered in a lab and allows us to be applying it and reflecting that light. And so there are these grades of white, some white doesn't reflect as much and thereby the materials actually hold onto that heat a bit more and that causes a little bit of concern for of course trying to reflect that heat back out into space.

2 (21m 27s):
But the problem here, it seems sort of brings us back to the problem we see at the federal level where you have inaction, where you have barriers, be they legal or or structural or what have you. What do we do about that?

18 (21m 43s):
Yeah, the federal agencies have been remarkably slow in my read of this work to really respond to heat in a serious and severe way. So the federal government has launched a series of programs recently to be able to advance both the data collection and monitoring at a very hyperlocal scale. We do this through a lot of sensors on cars and bikes and collecting a lot of data. That's a program albeit relatively small for the federal government, but nevertheless something that gets communities kind of beginning to socialize the concept of heat. Now we need the federal government to free up some resources so local communities can start getting the emergency preparedness and response actions in place.

18 (22m 27s):
Then we need to really start talking about interbu engagement. So that's through groups like the National Integrated Heat Health Information System. That is a inter-agency coordinating body that allows multiple federal agencies to work together to identify how heat makes its way through housing and urban development, through the Environmental Protection Agency, through the National Institutes of Health, through all the different bureaus that in some way have direct consequences on the policies they administer promulgate and also have direct role to play in how local agencies have the resources, have the technical assistance, and have the capacity to be able to get in front of these heatwaves, which are increasing only in intensity and frequency across the country.

18 (23m 15s):
Many dozens of communities across the country have declared climate emergencies themselves, and so we have a lot of action happening at the local level, which of course gives me hope when I see communities so passionate, so, so informed, so technically aware and scientifically grounded in the evidence about how heat is playing out in their region and what actions need to be taken. So I actually have a tremendous amount of hope and optimism for the kind of work that's ahead of us and the strategies that really seem to be working.

2 (23m 51s):
Professor Vivek Shada, Portland State University, that's Portland to Oregon for anyone who is wondering. Our show is produced by Avi Shai Artsy and Amanda Lewellyn. For anyone who's wondering they had help from Matthew Collette, Laura Bullard, Serena Solin, Patrick Boyd, David Herman. Hello Amna Aldi, Miranda Kennedy and John Aarons. Take it away. John.

22 (24m 15s):
I see no colors anymore. I want them to turn white Iry, even mother of

1 (24m 33s):
It

22 (24m 34s):
Don't matter to me. It could just save world. I see a line of cars. They should be painted white whites on all white houses reflecting the,

1 (24m 51s):
I've seen

22 (24m 51s):
People turn their of the suns. I look out to the C and see a painted bow already painted white but needs a second It right.