0 (1s):
The FDA just approved the first non-hormonal drug to treat hot flashes, which are a particularly nasty side effect of menopause.

1 (10s):
It's a huge deal. It's called fean, and everyone is rejoicing because it's extraordinarily effective. I mean, major, major reduction in hot flashes within an average of four weeks.

0 (23s):
This news got us thinking about menopause a change that half of the humans on planet Earth will enter into.

2 (29s):
Yes, ma'am. I have gone through menopause. It took me a long time. Mine lasted about nine years,

0 (36s):
But honestly, no one really seems to talk about, did, did Grandma Helen talk to you about menopause?

2 (43s):
Oh gosh, no. No.

0 (46s):
We're gonna talk about it. Menopause in your feed, menopause on your radio. All the menopause questions you didn't know you had. I had no idea coming up on today. Explained

4 (59s):
Quentin here makes sustainable clothing. Yep. His shipping company, FedEx, has set a goal of having carbon neutral operations by 2040. Great news, this sustainability effort makes Quentin very happy. Nice. FedEx, where now meets next

5 (1m 15s):
A live action remake of the Little Mermaid Hits theaters this week with a black princess Ariel, which good, right?

6 (1m 25s):
It is very much giving the skin of diversity, but not the root of it. It doesn't feel fully integrated into the movie

5 (1m 35s):
Disney and Black Princesses and the Racial Politics of Fairy Tales. This week on Intuit Vultures pop culture podcast,

0 (1m 53s):
It's today explained I Will King. When news of the hot flash medication broke, we called Jany Dunn. She writes a column called Will for the New York Times. And conveniently she just wrote this book,

1 (2m 6s):
Hot and Bothered What No One tells you about menopause and how to feel like yourself again. You know, I can remember when I was putting together this book, I thought, okay, well what books are out there on menopause? Seemingly thousands of books on pregnancy. I mean, there was just, you know, shelf after shelf. And then there was one book. I have a nice library too. There was one book on menopause, one, it was written in the nineties. The pages were yellow. It was very old. And I thought, wow, given the proportion of time that women spend in menopause, you enter it and you don't leave, you stay in it. So the average age of menopause is 51 and, and the average lifespan for women is, is 80.

1 (2m 46s):
So that's decades and decades that you're in it yet. Who knew? I didn't know either. And I write about health

7 (2m 52s):
Anyway. I told him about my fever and my insomnia and my brain problems. You know how I can't remember anything. And he told me he thought I could be at the beginning of menopause. Hello? Yeah, that's what I said.

1 (3m 4s):
I started getting symptoms when I was 45. And you know, when you're in your forties, you're not thinking about that at all. But that is when perimenopause starts most often in your forties. And so I remember I got a, a racing heart. That's one of the symptoms, the, the, you know, the supposedly 35 symptoms. And, and I thought, oh, okay, I'm, I'm going to have a heart attack, you know? And then I got other symptoms. My, my skin dried out. I went to the dermatologist. All these things were happening. And I didn't connect the dots because I just wasn't in that head space. Like in your forties, you know, sometimes people have young kids, they're working, they're taking care of elderly parents, they've got pets, they've got this, they've got, you're just not there.

1 (3m 51s):
And I also had equated menopause with, oh, that happens when you're older. You know, oh, that's, that's kind of like golden girls territory. I didn't realize that It was in my forties. And when I finally put it together, I had seen, I don't even know how many doctors can you list, all 35 symptoms. I can, are you ready for some fun? I don't mean to scare people to death. I really don't mean to scare people to death. I, I interviewed, I don't even know how many experts for this book. And they would say, please tell readers sometimes you don't have any symptoms. Some women absolutely sail through it with no symptoms. Sometimes you just get a cluster of symptoms and it's not so bad. But here, here are all the symptoms because it is helpful to know if you're in your forties and some of these are starting to happen, put it together and maybe see your doctor.

1 (4m 35s):
Here we go. Hot flashes. Of course everyone knows about that, right? It's in all the sitcoms. Women like fanning themselves and night sweats.

8 (4m 44s):
Well, it don't feel very beautiful. I feel like I'm jumping in and out of a hot bath and somebody's twisting a rubber around my head.

1 (4m 54s):
Irregular periods, I'll go back to that because that's a major tell when you have perimenopause is just one, one month. It's the mighty Mississippi River. The next, it's a trickle. Okay? Anyway, mood swings, libido tends to go south. Breast soreness, headaches, vaginal dryness, a big one. Burning mouth, huh? What? But yes, tingling and hands and feet. I got that one. Gum disease, extreme fatigue, bloating, digestive problems, joint pain, depression, muscle aches, itchy skin, electric shocks. Another who knew, but, but quite common apparently terrible sleep, brain fog, memory lapses, thinning hair, brittle nails.

1 (5m 42s):
Mine were like baklava, weight gain, incontinence. Oh yes, dizziness or vertigo, me too. Increased allergies. Loss of bone density, that's a big one to keep an eye on. Irregular heartbeat, which I mentioned I had weird new body odor, also common irritability, anxiety and panic disorder. And, and there might even be more, but those are kind of the major ones. And they certainly take people by surprise.

0 (6m 12s):
I am fucking furious right now. No, it's

1 (6m 17s):
A lot. It's a lot. And I'm, you know, I don't mean to put a, a men positivity spin on these things, but like you will get through them eventually. But yeah, I know you're, are you absorbing all that? It's, it's a lot. It's

0 (6m 31s):
A lot. It's, it's a lot. And, and here's the thing, that's, that feels very weird to me. Women, girls even do talk about our periods and it's actually even kind of fun when like you're a teenager and you're like, Ooh, we're all getting it first.

9 (6m 44s):
Jenny got it. Then stupid Vicky got it. And I tried everything to get my periods.

0 (6m 50s):
We do talk about pregnancy, some of that chat is less fun in my experience, but, but we don't talk about menopause and that is really strange to me. It's like we got two out of three that we talk about a a lot all the time and then suddenly we go silent. You're

1 (7m 7s):
Right, there are so many rituals around different life transitions. And I received the talk, I remember my mom took me out to dinner. It was a, it was a big thing And you know, I had the period talk. You receive the talk for their first period. No one gives a talk for your last period. Never. It's just not part of these life rituals that we have. Baby showers, bot mitzvahs, you know, there's all kinds of different rituals that you go through. I had a baby shower where people would share knowledge with me and tips and oh, here's what happened when I went through it, you know, and absolutely nothing for this life transition. And I was thinking, wouldn't it be so great if there was like a menopause shower where people could share what's going on with them and what worked for them.

1 (7m 54s):
And maybe you could even get some gifts like neck cream because your neck really starts to dry out or, or you know, vaginal lube or, or whatever. But just to normalize it and to let people know what's coming. Because the really important part of this is how we're still like, I love so much that you're having me on and we're talking about it and you're helping to further the conversation. That's how it's going to be normalized, right? It's, it's not going to happen with policy. It's going to happen with us all talking about it.

10 (8m 24s):
I mean, the question is, were you open with your family about the sym, how the symptoms were affecting you? But obviously I didn't know that you were having those symptoms for 10 years.

2 (8m 35s):
I think. No, I think I wasn't open at all. I don't talk about, I didn't talk about myself that much about it.

10 (8m 42s):
Hmm. Why?

2 (8m 43s):
It's one of those topics that everybody jokes about like, oh God, menopause. Like we all, we know it's the worst. I just tolerated it.

1 (8m 50s):
I want it to not be a shock. I want it to be familiar because part of the, part of the shock is that you don't know what it's about and you don't know when it's coming and you don't know that there are treatments out there. So we had a, my mother and I had a really long conversation and that's also good for your health records. Like it's good to know when, if they can remember my mom, it took a lot of prompting for my mom. I was like, okay, when did you go through menopause? Was it the, the Carter administration? What? Do you remember any, how old was I? It took a while cuz she was kind of, she had, she's in denial about it. But it's helpful to know and if you, if your mother is no longer living other relatives who had it, you know, it's just, that's helpful information.

1 (9m 33s):
If you go to your doctor to talk about menopause, which is another thing that I recommend, what

0 (9m 37s):
I think I hear you saying is that what's behind all the silence is that generationally speaking, the generations that have come before us have been hesitant to talk about a lot of things that are quote unquote women's issues, including maybe periods in pregnancies, things that Gen X, myself and millennial are much more comfortable talking about. And so what's happening here really is just a generational shift in the ways that Gen X has pushed us forward in the ways that older millennials have pushed us forward. We're doing that again. We're doing it with menopause.

1 (10m 10s):
Exactly. And I have such high hopes for the generations that are coming up because they are so much more transparent. You know, celebrities talk about it and half the time they are pushing products.

11 (10m 24s):
Stripes was formulated specifically for perimenopausal and menopausal skin. Our patent pending rine and squalling formulation provides superior moisture and hydration where you need it the most. So what is the criteria? One of the

12 (10m 38s):
Right, one of the criteria for, for menopausal clothing? Well you want clothing that breathes, you need clothing that you can layer because you go from hot flashes to cold flashes and we, we wanna make sure that, you know, we've got something for both. I talked a little bit about the menopause middle.

1 (10m 52s):
They see that there's money to be made and fine, I don't care because they're still talking about it and they still carry some weight and, and it gives people permission like it or not to talk about it, you know, themselves. I used to write about health and also beauty. So I would get sent these menopause products and I noticed that back when, when I was growing up, the few things available for menopause symptoms that you could buy in a store, they were always in these like sad brown plastic containers and they would be like a picture of a sunset on them if it was like a supplement or like dry leaves, you know? And now they're very luxurious.

1 (11m 34s):
They're meant to be displayed and not hidden away, you know, with your skin tag removal cream, they're meant to be like put, you know, right there on the counter for people to see, they'll say the word menopause on it instead of some like stupid euphemism. And I think that's great too.

2 (11m 54s):
Even the doctors didn't really talk about the menopause. No, I just knew I was gonna not have a period. So that was fantastic but I was not really prepared for the other things that came with it.

10 (12m 4s):
Okay, so you knew you weren't gonna have a period and you knew you were gonna be sweaty, but other than that you were just kind of winging it

2 (12m 10s):
Completely, winging it

0 (12m 18s):
Coming up. The reason we are all winging it, guess how much time gynecologists spend on menopause in medical school? You will not believe it.

13 (13m 14s):
Fox Creative.

14 (13m 15s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by too. Good.

15 (13m 19s):
Why do we throw away so much perfectly good food in this country while a huge number of people are going hungry, like the two things just don't add up. My name is Sean Fhelps and I'm the senior brand manager of two goods. We offer a variety of delicious products that you can find in the two Good was founded back in 2019 and our mission from the start was really to create good both small good food and more good in the world. Combating food waste and food insecurity came as a natural course of action. 30 to 40% of the food supply in the US goes to waste and one in six Americans are facing food insecurity. So we don't have an issue of lack of food supply, it's an issue of food distribution.

15 (14m 2s):
If we rescue without food, we can feed more people one cup less hung up. And the way it works is that for every two good products sold, we donate to two incredible food rescue organizations. City Harvest and we don't waste who are dedicated to rescuing good food from businesses, from supermarkets, anywhere it might go to waste. And then redirecting that to communities in need who are facing food insecurity. Consumers that have purchased two good products have helped rescue over 58 million pounds of foods and donate over 48 million meals to those who need it the most. It's really remarkable the amount of Food City Harvest and we don't waste are able to rescue.

14 (14m 37s):
To learn more, visit two good yogurt.com/one cup less Hunger

16 (14m 46s):
Support for this show today comes from ramp. And if you're like, what is ramp? Let me tell you, you ever go on a a business trip and put all your expenses on your own personal credit card, collect all those receipts to one day, fill out an expense report, but then it's like four months later and you know you're staring in the mirror thinking about filling out that expense report and how agonizingly mundane that process will be. And seriously considering maybe just eating all those costs yourself just to avoid filling out an expense report. But RAMP wants to make sure that never happens. They wanna make the process simpler. It can help your company issue cards to every employee with limited restrictions.

16 (15m 27s):
RAMP can automatically create monthly expense reports instantly collects receipts and categorizes expenses in real time. It's designed to work with teams of all sizes. Whether you have five employees or 5,000, you can get $250 right now when you join ramp. Just go to ramp.com/explained ramp.com/explained amp.com/explained.

2 (15m 57s):
I would heat up internally. I used to say it was like your body was in a microwave oven cooking from the inside out. That's how I would describe it. That's beautiful.

0 (16m 6s):
It's today explained. Jany Dunn, author of the new book about menopause, hot and bothered Jany. You said you started perimenopause in your forties and I want us to suss out what perimenopause is, what actual menopause is, and medically what's going on during this time. So start with perimenopause.

1 (16m 24s):
Perimenopause, which was not even part of the lexicon until the nineties is I know, I know. It's so funny. Peri means around and so that means the years around menopause leading up to menopause can be four to eight years depending. And symptoms can be really faint at first. So it's not like it's this, you know, onslaught of symptoms for eight years. And again, that happens most often in a woman's forties. Menopause means that you've gone an entire year without your period. So 12 months with no period whatsoever.

1 (17m 4s):
If you get your period, if you're counting up and you get it on month nine, you have to start over. So it has to be a full 12 months. When it has been 12 months, then you are officially in menopause and again the average age is 51. Then after that you stay in menopause, you're sort of postmenopausal and the symptoms kind of can continue. The one that can continue for a while is vaginal dryness. That tends not to get better. A lot of the doctors told me. So if that's one of your symptoms worth checking out, I'm

2 (17m 39s):
So excited to tell you this as my daughter, your sexual life really suffers. You're not interested in sex. It was really diminished. So you

16 (17m 48s):
Had

0 (17m 48s):
To tell Todd so he could go get like some girlfriends.

2 (17m 51s):
Yes, I had to tell him as my excuse. And then, you know,

1 (17m 54s):
To leave me alone, women are socialized not to pay attention to their quality of life and, and sometimes with some of these symptoms, if they're being deranged by hot flashes or night sweats, that can affect your quality of life if you're not sleeping for weeks at a time and you know, I would urge everyone if they're beaten down by these symptoms, please see a doctor.

0 (18m 16s):
This is gonna sound like a bizarre question Chancey, but what is the point of menopause? Why does it happen? I always

1 (18m 22s):
Get excited when I hear it. This is gonna be a bizarre question. I love it. Researchers aren't exactly sure. You know, some people say that our lifespan keeps extending and, and you know, our fertility hasn't caught up with that. It's oversimplifying, but you can think of menopause as reverse puberty. That's what some doctors call it. And it

17 (18m 42s):
Makes a lot of sense because in puberty you've got those hormonal changes kind of everything's ramping up, right? If you can remember back then,

1 (18m 49s):
When you go through puberty, your system is being flooded with estrogen and other hormones. And when you're going through menopause, it's leaving your system. So it's reverse puberty. Again, that is oversimplifying and I'm not a doctor, but that's a good way to explain it to other people.

17 (19m 6s):
You cycle through your natural fertility and then perimenopause, sort of the opposite of puberty.

0 (19m 12s):
What do gynecologists learn in medical school about

1 (19m 15s):
Menopause? I mean really it's only an hour of training and it's, it's not much all I know. And you, you think like when you pull back and you just think even just, you know, systemically just knowledge about menopause. It's very interesting. The UK is ahead of us in many ways and menopause is taught in schools for kids. Whoa.

18 (19m 36s):
We've been able to ensure that menopause has been added to the school curriculum in England. If menopause is something that will happen to you or somebody you know or love, then this does matter to you.

1 (19m 50s):
In terms of medical school, it is kind of shocking how little it's addressed when the ramifications of menopause, when the symptoms can can just go on for years at a time and can be really severe.

0 (20m 3s):
If you're paying attention to the conversation around menopause, you do hear some about hormone therapy. What is that? And is that something that if I feel like I'm in perimenopause, I can just go in and ask for?

1 (20m 15s):
You can, and I know people are a little bit leery of hormone therapy after the Women's Health Initiative studies came out in the early aughts linking it to breast cancer and it's since been reanalyzed and there were a lot of flaws in them. There was just a lot of things that have not skewed the results but made them a bit more extreme. So anyway, it's replacing the estrogen that is leaving your body and there's progesterone two, which sort of mitigates the effect of estrogen. If you just have estrogen, then you can get certain kinds of cancers. And so you can have it on a patch which has been shown to be safer than a pill.

1 (20m 58s):
The current position with the North American Menopause Society in a bunch of other medical organizations is if you are within 10 years of menopause, if you're in good health, then you should explore the idea of systemic hormones. Meaning you, you take a pill or you have a patch that the benefits could well outweigh the risks. And there's also vaginal estrogen. When estrogen leaves your body, it leaves all the tissues in your body. It's not just your skin, which mine got really rough. It's, it's the skin in your vulva, your vagina.

1 (21m 38s):
And when it leaves your body, your tissues get drier. And so sex can be incredibly painful. And that was another shock to me because it was, not only did I not tell my husband what was going on, I just started avoiding him when it came to sex because I mean, who wants to talk about your, your vagina drying out, right? It's not the sexiest conversation, but I realized I was doing our relationship a disservice because I was avoiding him and he thought that I didn't care about him anymore. And I finally had to tell him what was going on with my body. I thought, oh, I'm doing what my mother was doing and I'm, I'm gritting my teeth about this and I'm keeping quiet. Why?

1 (22m 18s):
He's getting older too. Who cares? Who gives a crap? So I told him what was happening and I also said, you know, so just be patient with me. Here's what's going on with my body. It's reverse puberty. Think of it that way. This, this is what's, this is the result of the estrogen leaving my body. And I went to my OB G Y n and I got the frontline treatment for vaginal dryness and it's topical vaginal estrogen. You apply it topically, it's not in your system and three months later sex doesn't hurt and you're not peeing yourself. Peeing yourself is a quality of life issue. And I don't mean to scare everyone to death. You may not pee yourself. It may be fine, but topical estrogen was an absolute game changer for me.

1 (23m 2s):
Again, every it is a personal choice, but another thing that I didn't know was out there.

0 (23m 10s):
When you spoke to women for the book and you talked about menopause and you talked about how doctors had, what doctors had told them how doctors had treated the situation. What are some of the craziest things that women told you their doctors said to them or suggested?

1 (23m 23s):
Oh my God, the two responses that I, I can't, I interviewed countless women that they got were yoga yoga's great, there's lots of research behind yoga, but you can't, you can't pose away everything that's going on with you when you're going through perimenopause or menopause. And the other was have a glass of wine. This came up again and again. So a lot of times for painful sex, just have a glass of wine or for hot flashes, which makes it worse, by the way, alcohol. So you can't drink your problems away. It might be fun to try and you can't pose your problems away, but that was the two main things.

1 (24m 6s):
And so, you know, going back to your doctor, if you feel like you're being gaslighted or your symptoms are being minimized, see somebody else.

0 (24m 16s):
How do you think this conversation and how do you think medical advances would be different if men were the ones who went through menopause instead of women?

1 (24m 27s):
Well, I think that hormone therapy would be federally funded. I interviewed several urologists who treat both men and women and they said to me that quality of life is not discussed with my female patients. But men are very upfront if something isn't working, if they're having sexual problems, if they're having problems urinating, you know, they'll come to me right away. It would just be a normal stage of life just like everything else. And it would be much more normalized. And you know, right now the onus is on women to change things.

1 (25m 7s):
It's not gonna be at a policy level, is it? It, I mean, you know, not to be cynical, but I don't see anything changing for years and years. But the more we talk about it, the better it will be. And we are making progress. It seems slow, but maybe four years ago I tried to get a menopause book off the ground when I was just starting to figure out that I had symptoms and nobody was interested and this one, 13 publishers were interested. And I thought, ah, okay, this is telling,

2 (25m 40s):
I remember the blood flow being so heavy that it would push the tampon out. Jesus. Do you know what I mean? Like you'd feel the tampon starting to come out like, okay, you know, this

10 (25m 48s):
Is on NPR in a bunch of different cities. What if that is in in the radio?

2 (25m 52s):
Go ahead, put it on there. Someone will say yes, that happened to me too. That's

10 (25m 56s):
True. And that's important.

0 (26m 5s):
Today's episode was produced by Victoria Chamberlain. It was edited by Amina Elad and engineered by Michael Rayfield. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard. You heard Laura's mom, Anne Bullard throughout the show. And we wanna thank Anne for her frankness and also we wanna thank her for Laura.

2 (26m 22s):
Aw, thank you Noelle and happy birthday.

0 (26m 25s):
I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.