0 (1s):
Hello, Vox listeners. My name is Erin Lamor and I'm one of the hosts of the long-form podcast. The newest addition, the VOCs in the Vox media podcast network. We've been doing the show for over nine years. We've gotten to talk to people like George Saunders, Terry Gross, Tallahassee coats, and really tried to explore what it means to be a writer or a journalist today in 2021. We're also expanding to feature documentarians, podcasters, whoever we find interesting. So you can catch up on long-form now at vox.com/long form or in the podcast app of your choice.

2 (58s):
It's been explained Sean Rama's firm, and I've got one foot in Nevada and the other and Arizona, I am standing dead center on the Hoover dam, formerly known as the Boulder. Damn, and it is 112 degrees Fahrenheit right now. I think that's about 45 degrees for myself. He has friends out there and that is relevant because as we approached the Hoover dam, Centenery this crown Juul of American infrastructure is in bad shape. It's not the dam's fault per say, it's the water. The Hoover dam on the Colorado river creates a reservoir. It's called lake Mead when full it's the largest reservoir in the United States, but I'm looking at it right now.

2 (1m 40s):
And you can see how far the water level has dropped. There's the high watermark kind of like a giant bathtub bring. And then there's where we are right now. Well, below the water levels at the Hoover dam have never been lower since it opened in 1936 in its prime. This sucker shaped the American Southwest Los Angeles. Wouldn't be the city it became without this dam, but now it's all in jeopardy with record breaking low water levels. This dam is producing a third less, the hydro electricity than it could be. It's one of the reasons California is at a high risk of power outages in the summer. And things stand to get much worse.

2 (2m 20s):
American infrastructure is old and the changing climate is rendering a heck of a lot of it outmoded. That's why the president and, and both parties are trying to spend a ton of money to bring the country into the 21st century. And it's why we here today Explained are dedicating a week of shows to talking about what needs to get done. That's right. It's infrastructure week,

1 (2m 43s):
Two week to

2 (2m 51s):
Week, and isn't just infrastructure week. And today explained it's actually infrastructure week in Washington, DC. Biden's speaking about his very big plans today. Senator Schumer is supposed to call a vote on Wednesday to start the debate on a big infrastructure bill, but infrastructure week. Those two words have a bit of a history in DC. Yeah. And infrastructure

1 (3m 13s):
Week,

3 (3m 15s):
It's all been talking about this week, right? Infrastructure. You no fixing our old bridges, then jumping off them. Yes <inaudible>

2 (3m 24s):
To explain. She's leading the charge on infrastructure week for Vox.

4 (3m 28s):
It started back during the Trump administration.

3 (3m 33s):
So we have to build roads. We have to build highways. We're talking about a very major infrastructure bill

4 (3m 38s):
Pretty much. And every other week they would say they wanted to do something about infrastructure. My

3 (3m 43s):
Administration is working every day to deliver the world-class infrastructure and

4 (3m 47s):
It would never happen. So it became this running joke. Well,

3 (3m 50s):
Let's see how badly you want it. Cause if you want it badly, you're going to get it. And if you don't want it, that's okay with me too.

4 (3m 57s):
And it's really came back again during the Biden administration. And

3 (4m 1s):
Remember that bridge, we went down, we got 10.

4 (4m 5s):
Now it's not even just infrastructure week. It's Hot infrastructure summer because of how long things have been taking and how the expected to continue, where we keep talking about progress on infrastructure. But at this point there's yet to be an actual bill that's gotten passed

2 (4m 28s):
Way back in March of this year. President Biden announced an ambitious plan that promised to rebuild the country's economy and its infrastructure. We covered on the show. What happened to that plan?

4 (4m 40s):
That plan actually got a ton of pushback from Republicans immediately.

5 (4m 44s):
When I look at this, this is the staggering amount of spending like someone with a new credit card infrastructure

4 (4m 51s):
Is a very bi-partisan idea. And so you would think that it would be one of the easier things to get everyone on board with the issue is that there is a disagreement on what infrastructure is and how expansive that term should be. So you have Republicans who think that means what you would typically consider infrastructure, roads,

6 (5m 10s):
And bridges and ports and airports.

4 (5m 13s):
And then you have Democrats. Who've really expanded that definition to include things like caregiving, provisions, paid, family leave. And so like, there's a fundamental disagreement about what infrastructure is. And then on top of that, there's a disagreement about how to pay for it. And so those two in tandem have caused the conflict that we've seen so far.

2 (5m 35s):
We'll take us back to March. The things introduced, it's huge, it's sprawling. It covers things that people think are infrastructure and things that people disagree about. What happens next after

4 (5m 46s):
That? And you get the pushback from Republicans, you also have them proposing their own version of the bill. So Biden's original plan was over $2 trillion.

1 (5m 56s):
Guess what? Cozy

3 (6m 0s):
Benefits? Everybody hurts. Nobody Republicans

4 (6m 5s):
Come back to him with something that's roughly $600 billion. And we don't really see a lot of progress. And then this bi-partisan gang forms and it's about 20 people, including 10 Republicans, 10 Democrats. And they try to put their heads together to come up with something that everyone can agree on and get behind. Tell me about the gang who's in the gang. The gang is a lot of the cast of characters that you would expect. They are moderate Democrats and Republicans who love bipartisanship and really believe that Congress can work together.

4 (6m 46s):
And so you have people like Joe Manchin, it's doable

5 (6m 49s):
In the bipartisan way. Check that victory.

4 (6m 52s):
And then on the Republican side, you have Rob Portman. Infrastructure has always been by partisan, Susan Collins, Mitt Romney. So they are really focused and trying to do something that can get both democratic and Republican support. I know

2 (7m 7s):
They didn't get this thing done about to start. The process is supposed to happen this week, but how far does the gang get?

4 (7m 14s):
Well, technically they, they do have some semblance of success

7 (7m 18s):
Today, president and buying and walking out of the white house with senators, from both parties to announce they've struck an agreement to rebuild the nation's critical infrastructure.

2 (7m 27s):
And that's your direct question. We have a deal,

4 (7m 29s):
They get agreement on a framework and they get president Joe Biden sign off on it. And that's basically where they are. Right? I clearly didn't get all I want.

2 (7m 41s):
They signed off on a framework. That's not how a bill becomes

3 (7m 46s):
Pray that I will, but today,

4 (7m 52s):
Right? If you, if you look at actually what they put out, it is literally a table that has you, no roads, bridges, transit, and the amount of money allocated to each is what the framework is and what their in the process of doing now is, okay. Sounds like a sixth grade, the homework assignment.

2 (8m 13s):
What would you do with $1.2 trillion? I

4 (8m 16s):
Do think it's been funny to see some of the press releases that have come out because some of them do look like they've been made on like Microsoft paint. Oh, I will say this framework is a bit more sophisticated. You no, I'm going to say it probably looks like something out of Excel, but the bill still hasn't been written yet. So that's what we're waiting on to see. But there is an agreement on $600 billion in new spending and the idea that it's going to be paid for, not using changes to the corporate tax code, at least this piece of it, which is a big issue, Republicans

2 (8m 52s):
And 600 billion sounds a lot less than 2 trillion. Yes. Sorry. The Democrats just going to take like a huge haircut for the sake of bipartisanship and, and then pass a much smaller bill. Is that what's going on

4 (9m 4s):
Here? Not exactly. So they have their own plan to also pass a democratic infrastructure bill that is going to be much larger. And that is going to include a lot of the stuff that did not make it into the bi-partisan plan. The majority

7 (9m 18s):
Leader, Chuck Schumer, lauded the Democrats proposal, a $3.5 trillion budget outline calling for more spending toward healthcare childcare, education and climate. It would be paid for, with taxes on corporations and wealthy Americans.

8 (9m 33s):
Budget resolution will allow us to pass the most significant legislation to expand support and help American families since the new deal, since the new deal, this is generational transformational change,

4 (9m 47s):
And they're doing what they are calling a two track approach where they will be taking votes on both bills roughly around the same time and pursuing both of them in parallel so that the bipartisan stuff gets done and the democratic stuff gets done as well. And, and what, the second

2 (10m 5s):
Huge thing they're going to do through reconciliation is that how they get it done?

4 (10m 9s):
Yes, that's the plan. They can do it with just democratic votes, since it will only need 51 votes to pass. And so they have the entire caucus and I'm Alma Harris. I'm voting on that. The thing that they run into is that because the actual reconciliation bill itself won't be done until later in the year, it's possible that we see, you know, changes in momentum and internal divisions among Democrats potentially tripping up that legislation, but they won't need Republican support if they can get all their members on board.

2 (10m 43s):
Hmm. So you've got these two sets of legislation, one bi-partisan one, not together, they'd fulfill a lot of Biden's promises when it comes to building roads and bridges and to do what he calls, I guess, human infrastructure. What are the chances? All of this goes according to plan,

4 (11m 4s):
That is the biggest question right now. And there's certainly no, no sure thing on any of these for the bipartisan bill, still waiting to see just how many Republicans actually commit to it. And for the reconciliation bill, there are a lot of questions that are up in the air about what it will actually include. And it will have to go through the same process that we saw with the American rescue plan, where it needs to get approved by the parliamentarian as well as actually get written by the committee before we know for sure what will happen to it. So both of those run a risk of not actually coming to fruition.

2 (11m 42s):
What did we learn along the way on this journey, Lee? It, it felt like Biden was really committed to getting sort of bipartisan buy-in. He did on a smaller thing. And then he's just turning around and doing his bigger thing through this sort of nifty budget reconciliation tool that obviously the other side of the aisle won't like anyway, is this truly bipartisan government and spirit? Did it matter at all to even try and get Republicans on board? Should they just have gone to the lone the entire time?

4 (12m 12s):
It does feel like a really circuitous way to go about this. And a large reason they did it this way is both because Joe Biden himself believed so much and bipartisanship, but also because you had several moderate Democrats, including Joe Manchin, who said they did not want to go forward on a democratic only bill until they considered a moderate. And so you actually just have a lot of these Democrats who are pushing for bipartisanship because that's what they believe in. And then you have some of them like Mark Kelly and Maggie has the, and who will be up for reelection in the next cycle. And so for them, it's a way to probably appeal to moderates and independents in their state who might be happy to see that they did something with

2 (13m 3s):
Biden bet big on bipartisanship. And that might work out no guarantees. What's clear is that big ambitious spending on ourselves isn't as popular an idea, as it was say, after the great depression, Biden's new new deal versus the old one in a minute on today, Explained support for the shutter day comes from noon.

2 (13m 48s):
I want you to close your eyes and picture your favorite food right now, unless you're like operating a chainsaw. What are you doing? Don't don't close your eyes while you're operating a chainsaw, but the rest of you close your eyes and picture and your favorite food. I mean, for me, it's like a delicious and, and almost borderline toxically, spicy Sri Lankan, rice, and Curry with like, you know, four or five different dishes on the plate. My mom just made it. I can't wait to eat it. I don't see her very often. Oh, it's amazing. Now close your eyes and think of your favorite diet. Did your meal just disappear because you're now on this diet, new wants you to no, it don't have to be like that.

2 (14m 32s):
You can sign up for your trial and get psychology-based support to reach your goals. Go to noon.com/ Explained that's N O O m.com/ Explained to start your trial today.

9 (14m 47s):
This is advertiser content from lending tree. When it comes to a mate, most of us will compare many possible matches before finding our person. And we invest our time. A survey found that millennials can spend around 90 minutes a day swiping on dating apps. We

7 (15m 5s):
Can't find ourselves in a relationship with someone else. If we don't know who we are first

9 (15m 12s):
And that's professional matchmaker, Marshawn body of three day rule.

7 (15m 16s):
There's no one size fits all for everybody. But shopping around is important. At first, it can feel a little exhausting, but you, you gotta go through it, right? Everyone does. In the end, the things

9 (15m 29s):
You look for when comparing potential mates are unique to you. So why not find a credit card or loan that fits you just as personally lending tree is a one-stop marketplace where you can easily compare loans, credit cards, insurance, and more so not only do you save money, you save time. And that means more time to spend with your special someone find lending tree on the app store, or go to lending tree.com to learn more terms and conditions apply in MLS. Number 1, 1, 3, 6,

2 (16m 11s):
President Biden in the Democrats say they're trying to recreate an infrastructure plan from almost a hundred years ago. That was when Franklin Delano Roosevelt's new deal transformed every part of the United States,

6 (16m 24s):
Especially the rural parts of the country because of the roads that they created, the farm to market Rhodes, the school's that they built modern. School's the electrification

2 (16m 34s):
Gray Brechin. He's a scholar at the living new deal project at UC Berkeley in California, which has tried to catalog new deal projects whose origins have been lost to history.

6 (16m 46s):
So it's most of our airport, it's our zoos. It's the Triborough bridge in New York, the bay bridge in San Francisco,

10 (16m 55s):
The state where the building and state and

6 (16m 58s):
It's military basis, because it's segued right into the war,

10 (17m 4s):
Federal public building and the maintenance

6 (17m 9s):
It's wildlife refuges. It's the red rock amphitheater outside of Denver, the Timberline lodge on Mount hood. It's those beautiful murals that you see and all of our post offices, a thousand of which were built under the new deal. It's entire universities like Brooklyn college and federal government had not done at least

10 (17m 34s):
The state government land and not out. And it's

6 (17m 41s):
The roads we'd drive over. And don't no, it it's electrification. The Tennessee valley authority, Bonneville grand Coulee dam, it's hydroelectric and energy, which we get. And the water that we get, which have enabled Sunbelt cities like Phoenix to arise and grow up, right? It contributed enormously to our public health because at the beginning of the new deal, a minority of Americans had safe drinking water. And once they had built the sewers in the water distribution systems and the sewage treatment plants, we all had safe drinking water. And we had public hospitals as well, too. It's the restoration of the statue of Liberty, the Washington monument, the Alamo things we take for granted, when we go and visit them

10 (18m 30s):
Next one by the national government has the balanced budget over the last six years.

6 (18m 43s):
It's an immense legacy that we take for granted. And we don't know where it came from because most of it's on mark. And so we're sort of recovering from the collective amnesia that we ever did, such a thing

2 (18m 58s):
And why. And, and we forget, how did we forget? I mean, we built America and then forgot about it.

6 (19m 3s):
Well, Roosevelt in initiating the new deal, earned some very powerful enemies. That is the wealthy. They called him a traitor to his class because he was wealthy himself. And so they didn't appreciate the fact that in order to pay for the new deal, he instituted progressive taxation estate taxes. He essentially was a friend of labor unions and the working man, which made him enormously popular with working class people, but very powerful people, such as William Randolph Hearst really hated him for that because those taxes, those progressive taxes put a real crimp and such things as his collecting and his building, his cows.

1 (19m 49s):
Hi, Fred in the home I've been in contact station, has the generated your underwear rack

6 (19m 60s):
Hurst of course, was an extremely powerful person at that time, like Rupert Murdoch today, he was a thought shaper for millions of people. And he called Roosevelt more communist than the communist themselves.

2 (20m 13s):
Help us remember how the new deal was implemented. Was, was Roosevelt talking about just creating jobs or was he talking about infrastructure? Was he pitching it the same way? Biden is pitching his infrastructure spending, right?

6 (20m 26s):
Roosevelt had to address an immediate catastrophe. That is the great depression he came in after four years of ever deepening economic crisis. And so what he did was he told the American people that we were engaged in something akin to war, except that this was a war against depression. So as in a war, all the stops were off. As far as spending goes, it's an existential crisis. And the depression was an existential crisis. He said, if it doesn't work, the new deal doesn't work. I will be the last president because he knew that the country was right on the verge of a revolution or an another civil war.

6 (21m 10s):
And he knew that one civil war was one too many. So what he did was pump huge amounts of money into the economy to put people back to work and to give them the self-esteem that they had lost.

2 (21m 24s):
How does that compare to the position binds in right now because of the coronavirus pandemic? Well, Biden

6 (21m 29s):
Actually is facing several existential crises at the same time. One is the pandemic that we have, that we are not bringing under control as we should. And of course the other is the climate crisis that we're confronting. But in fact, actually Biden is in a different kind of great depression that is that millions of Americans are experiencing a great depression individually. That is the enormous numbers of people that we see homeless on our streets. They are experiencing the great depression, very personally. One of the things that was very interesting about the new deal or the new dealers is that they thought seriously about how government could be used to create a healthier society.

6 (22m 17s):
And so what they did was they instituted and not only physical public works, but what they called service projects such as home care, free education, food distribution, and clothing, distribution to the needy. They in fact actually did create a much healthier society by thinking consciously about that. We don't. And so we're creating exactly the opposite today.

2 (22m 43s):
Clearly based on the challenges president, Biden's having, getting this infrastructure bill through Congress, we are not looking at this kind of spending the way Washington was in the time of the new deal.

6 (22m 58s):
Well, Roosevelt came into office with a very different situation because his predecessor Hoover, Republican, who hated Roosevelt had not been able to do anything about the depression except watching the got worse. So Roosevelt had an enormous popularity. And so what he had was a solidly democratic Congress, which pretty much rubber stamped, anything that he or his brain trust wanted. So Biden is in a very tough and very different situation. The Democrats have a, the slimmest of majorities and it's not solidly democratic in the way that Roosevelt had.

6 (23m 41s):
So Roosevelt had it much easier in some ways, even though, of course, the great depression was a, an unspeakable calamity at the time, from which many people like my parents suffered their entire lives from the kind of PTSD we are actually in a similar crisis or crises today. And I think that's one of the reasons that Biden so often looks back to Roosevelt and has a large picture of Roosevelt because he knows he's confronting crises similar to those that confronted Roosevelt. When he came into office

2 (24m 31s):
Gray Brecken, he's a scholar, the living new deal project at UC Berkeley. If you want to learn more about new deal infrastructure in your area, check out their website, living new deal.org, they have maps maps that will help you identify new deal projects all across the country. This is episode one of a five episode series we're doing this week. We're not through with it. We're just previewing it, the Saint, the whole show. We're just cuing it. And we're gonna talk about train's toilets, child care and why it's so dang expensive to build stuff in the United States. So stay tuned. It is infrastructure week on today, Explained.