3 (1s):
Remember back in the day when people just had like their one main Hustle, but now people have all sorts of hustles. If you got more than one Hustle but need help with your side hustles check out MailChimp. MailChimp can help you with your hustle. They've got this all-in-one marketing platform that you just have to see to believe and you can see it at mailchimp.com. Hey, this is today explained. I'm Sean Rama's from last week. We did an episode about a law passed in California. That would make classes start a little later. So that kids could sleep a little more. I started the episode by calling one of my oldest friends to talk to him about how we used to show up at 7 a.m.

3 (47s):
For 0. At Saugus High School in the Santa Clarita, California today shortly after that seven am bell rang for zero period there was a shooting. Saugus High School as these things go not a lot is known yet as these things go at least two students have died and multiple students are in critical condition as these things go the shooter is in custody. Before we start the show today. I felt the need to say something about this and this is just for me my opinion. I refuse to accept that this is just how it goes that this is the cost of doing business in the United States that we can pass laws to let kids sleep in a little more but not ones that actually prevent kids from being shot when they go to school.

3 (1m 38s):
I think that's insane. This is not the world. We were promised in 0. At seven in the morning back at Saugus High School. Jen Williams foreign editor here at vaux yesterday you and I were in a room watching the impeachment hearings William Taylor George Kent and that whole time just a few blocks south of our office here. The president was having a very important meeting. Yeah, so he was meeting with the president of Turkey.

3 (2m 19s):
His name is reject type erdowan or Aragon As Trump. Correctly pronounce his name whatever he did yesterday A lot of people do it's hard. It's not it was a hard G. Yeah. It's a g but like there's like a little yeah. It's like in Turkish. It's difference. You say erdowan. We're grateful to president erdogan and to the citizens of turkey for their cooperation now, but this isn't just a visit from like a Justin Trudeau. This is a big deal because the president recently withdrew troops out of Syria and turkey stepped in right? So the US and turkey has been in a bit of a tiff lately over a few things. So it mostly kicked off with Trump and this phone call he had with erdowan a few weeks ago in which he essentially agreed to pull US troops out of Northeastern Syria.

3 (3m 2s):
We want to bring our troops back home. It's been many many years. It's been decades in many cases. We want to bring our troops back home and the US was working with the SDF the Syrian Democratic forces the Kurdish back forces. We have been partnered for several years fighting Isis erdowan really does not like those Syrian Kurdish forces Than terrorists and has wanted for a long time to basically launch military incursion and kick them out of the area get them away from his border and create what he's calling a safe zone. So Trump holds these troops out turkey Syria. Let them take care of it. Let them take care of it turkey launches this incursion the Turkish military Unleashed an onslaught of artillery and air strikes overnight targeting tilapia and Syrian town of raw salihin Trump administration of suddenly like hey, Hey, how dare you launched this incursion?

3 (3m 54s):
Even though we totally knew that was gonna happen. I've told turkey that if they do anything outside of what we would think is Humane to use the word a second time. We talked about Hong Kong we talked about this they could suffer the wrath of a an extremely decimated economy. Vice president. Mike Pence went over to try to make a deal with turkey and the Kurds and try to basically get the ceasefire put in place. That's kind of where we are. Now. The ceasefire is not totally holding their It's of war crimes being committed by the Turkish backed forces in the area. They're still sporadic fighting on the ground.

1 (4m 29s):
We are about a mile away from the turkey-syria border and we've been hearing fighting the sounds of mortar fire automatic weapons as well as grenades. Not exactly the sounds you'd expect to hear during a successful ceasefire a ceasefire

3 (4m 44s):
which this decision to pull out troops from Syria and to let turkey step in seem to anger Republicans. The president's allies far more than an anything to do with what happened to Ukraine this impeachment inquiry. How come so Q things first. We essentially abandoned our Syrian Kurdish allies. We've been fighting alongside in the fight against Isis and to who's going to deal with Isis now, So the Syrian Kurdish forces that again we were allied with four years fought Isis and they captured a lot of Isis Fighters and family members wives children of Isis. They've put up all these basically ad-hoc prisons.

3 (5m 25s):
There are thousands of Isis Fighters and their family being held by the SDF the Syrian Democratic forces the Kurdish back forces when turkey came in and ran the SDF the Syrian Kurds out of that region. It was like, well what the hell who's going to watch over these prisons? What's going on with all these Fighters? Like is it now turkeys responsibility do they even care? There was a prison break some Isis Fighters and family members of Isis

1 (5m 50s):
escaped. The God showed us this attempted prison break from four days ago, and then they pull the door off its hinges and they charge even further down the corridor

3 (6m 2s):
and now it's like complete chaos. It's been over a month since the president made this decision and started executing it. What are the conditions? Right now in these prisons were members of Isis are being held. So these are mostly ad hoc prisons right there, like Schools and Government buildings that they just took over and converted and made into makeshift prisons where a lot of the prisoners are sleeping on mattresses on the floor. So it was jammed with thousands of Isis foreign fighters from countries, including Britain France Belgium of America captured in the Battle of Bagus earlier this year and now crammed together in prison conditions more reminiscent of concentration camps. Hardly, even room to move around it's super overcrowded.

3 (6m 42s):
There are also these camps one in particular. It's has like something like

1 (6m 46s):
70,000. It's called and Hood a camp that sprung from nowhere. Now the size of a small town

3 (6m 54s):
most of the people there are family members so wives and children of Isis with her also, like actual Isis Fighters thousands of them. Also in this Camp made organizations say it is not too late

1 (7m 3s):
to save the children of is militants, but if nothing changes they say this humanitarian crisis could turn in to a security

3 (7m 12s):
disaster and it's basically just surrounded by like a rusty chain link fence. That's not super secure. We're basically rounding up people off the battlefield and putting them places wherever we can find place to stick them and there's no real like accountability. There's no real like accounting of how many people are there. So it's kind of a black box, which is really scary. Are there any people in these camps that actually, you know aren't associated with the terrorism of Isis. So it's entirely possible and and probably likely that there are people who got caught up in these because again like they're on the battlefield. So even when you were talking about Guantanamo Bay, like there are people there who are arrested and held in Guantanamo Bay that like weird.

3 (7m 57s):
It was just like mistaken identity that they were held they didn't even do anything and we're eventually released but you have tens of thousands of people. How do you have like quartz for each person to adjudicate? What did you do? Where's the documentation? Can we prove Beyond a reasonable doubt that you were a member of Isis? Like what does that even mean? A member of Isis like did you know run like a local Precinct? Did you run a school? Does that make you a terrorist? Even if it was an Isis school? They had, you know Engineers who are building roads, like does that make you a terrorist if you worked for Isis because you don't want to be killed Okay thousands of people some Isis some who knows men women children turkey's leading this incursion into Syria where does Turkey want to put them literally anywhere but there turkey's interior Minister Suleiman.

3 (8m 42s):
Zoila said the prisoners will be sent to their home countries. No matter what even if their citizenship has been revoked. Zoila said last week that turkey is not a hotel for Isis members from other countries. They just don't want them on the Turkish border. They don't want them in turkey and this is the really big problem right? Because like what do you do with these people one of the big issues is like, you know, especially in this big Camp, right? Like I said, it's women and children so Do you count them as Isis Fighters, you know, it's not like women had a ton of rights under Isis and so, you know were they just kidnapped where they coerced were they forced to you know, Mary these Isis Fighters are they willing are they like hardcore Isis supporters?

3 (9m 22s):
So for example in one of these camps, you've had some of the like Isis wives essentially set up these Islamic hardcore Sharia courts that are basically like meeting out Justice according to Isis is like crazy hardcore. Insane interpretation of

1 (9m 38s):
sharia law in an Isis propaganda video these women sent a message from the cab where a ticking bomb says one of them just you wait and see

3 (9m 50s):
and then you have the issue that thousands of their people came from other parts of the world including America including Western Europe Eastern Europe places, even more far-flung. These women won't say where they

1 (10m 2s):
come from but sound British. This is I'd Isis idea. G an eye for an eye and a tooth for

3 (10m 9s):
tooth. That's what it is. They're not all from Syria. So it's not like you can just put them, you know have a trial and put him in prison forever in Syria turkey wants to get rid of these people. And so they're trying to send the back to their home countries if they can which means sending them back to places like Germany and Denmark and the United States. That's a problem because most of those countries are like, yeah. No, we don't want them. You keep them. No one wants to become Hotel Isis. Well that I mean is essentially going to talk about Bay is Hotel Isis, right or hotel all kinda we were capturing people on these battlefields and we essentially left them to rot for like over a decade and that's a problem.

3 (10m 54s):
Right? We've been trying to get rid of those prisoners out of Guantanamo

1 (10m 57s):
Bay for

3 (10m 58s):
a long time the Obama Administration the Trump Administration and the way we did that is we sent them. Third-party countries we asked other countries. Hey, would you mind taking these folks and will give you x y z in return and they sometimes agree, but the problem is that once they get there. We don't really know like are they being looked after they being monitored are they able to like slip out and go fight elsewhere? So it's really a long-term problem that there's really no great solution to If no one wants to become Hotel Isis, how is the world going to deal with what's left of Isis that's in a minute on today explained?

3 (12m 15s):
I used to live in Santa Cruz California worked at a public radio station called Central Coast Public Radio K. USP. And I live with this lady who after the earthquake in Santa Cruz and Francisco 1989. She made these shirts that said shift happens and she sold him for like whatever a reasonable rate all over town and a ton of people bought them. In fact, when I told one of my colleagues who's now a dear friend Johnny Simmons. Hey, man, I The lady who made the shift happens t-shirts. Do you know her and he's like, oh Linda. Yeah. I know her I bought one of those shirts everyone had a shirt. She did really well for herself, but it was kind of like a limited run and then people got over the earthquake and that was it but I kind of wonder sometimes what could Linda have done with mailchimp's all-in-one marketing platform because it has everything you need all in one place to give your new business the strongest start with the right marketing.

3 (13m 6s):
It's got email Marketing Solutions got a website builder. Elder little schedule your social posts for you. Come on. Now if you're ready to Be Your Own Boss, but you're still asking yourself. Now what start with MailChimp mailchimp.com Jasmine el-gamal you're a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council doing research on the Middle East you're based in Turkey where the government doesn't want to be anywhere near these members of Isis and lots of countries feel the same way except the United States.

1 (13m 44s):
That's right. The US has taken its citizens back and President Trump has repeatedly called on the Europeans to do the same and when it comes to the Europeans just to mention quickly. The Europeans have been much more willing to consider taking Women and children but by and large by and large European countries have steadfastly refused to accept foreign Fighters back on its soil because of the dangers, they might pose to their societies because public opinion is so incredibly anti repatriation and because because a lot of these countries aren't necessarily able to guarantee that if they took back these Fighters and put them in court that any evidence would hold up and allow these Fighters.

1 (14m 30s):
To be jailed. So a lot of them could end up being set free and that's a really scary thought for a lot of people in

3 (14m 35s):
Europe. Why is it that European countries are finding it so hard to take back these Isis members and their families when the United States is happy to do

1 (14m 43s):
so, so there are two main reasons why the Europeans have been much more reluctant than the u.s. To bring back their citizens. And the first one is simply numbers the US had far fewer Fighters leave the country to go fight in Syria for Isis. And so Number of people that have been repatriated have been much fewer than what the Europeans would have to repatriate. So that's first the second major difference is that it's easier for us to deal with it because we have laws on the books that allow us to prosecute these Fighters and give them harsher sentences than they would receive in many of these European countries, for example, so someone who is tried and sentenced in the US and convicted and sentenced to To 20 years for example in Belgium or Germany or in the UK for the same thing could be sentenced to five years in Turkey.

1 (15m 38s):
It's seven years. And so one of the main reasons why European countries are reluctant to take their citizens back. Is that even if they do find enough evidence to convict them in a court of law the best case scenario is that they're in jail for less than 10 years and then they come out and then they have to monitor them for the rest of their Lives and that takes up a lot of resources and potentially puts a lot of people at risk in the eyes of the

3 (16m 6s):
Europeans are all of these countries obligated to take Isis members and their families back.

1 (16m 12s):
So that is such an important question. That really is the million dollar question. Is there a legal basis or a legal requirement for these European countries to take their citizens back and the answer is very murky. So let me just try to explain the Nuance when it comes to you know foreigners in Syria trying to go back to their country. There are two possibilities here. Right one is if a European citizen who's in Syria is able to get to let's say Germany, let's just use that as an example if they're able to get to Germany on their own and they show up at an airport in Germany or at the border. Then international law is very clear.

1 (16m 53s):
You have to let them in write the universal Declaration of Human Rights. For example, it says that I'm quoting here. Everyone has the right to leave any country including his own and to return to his country. It's less clear if when it comes to active repatriation. So a lot of these in fact most of these European citizens are in Syria and they have no way of getting back to their countries, right? They have no way of showing up at an embassy and saying, you know, you need to help us because we're your citizens, but since those citizens aren't able to get to those embassies, you know, they're in prison. Is there in camps in Syria? Then what the European countries are saying is that they are not obligated to proactively go into Syria, especially remember that these European countries have cut diplomatic ties with Syria.

1 (17m 44s):
So they don't even have diplomatic relations with would that country anymore? So they're saying that we are under no obligation to go in and proactively take our citizens back. Especially that we don't actually consider them citizens anymore because they tour Their passports or they denounced their citizenship or participate in a tan and acts that are really antithesis all to what it means to be a German citizen or a French citizen or anything like that. So so they don't even see them as really their

3 (18m 16s):
responsibility. Okay, but these members are in Syrian prisons now being taken care of by Syrian Democratic forces, they would like to see them repatriated to countries like Denmark the Netherlands UK France, Germany. Is there a middle ground? Is there a third

1 (18m 32s):
option? Well a bunch of them are being discussed right now with the Europeans have been discussing amongst one another but also publicly and what the SDF has also suggested is for an international tribunal to be held inside Syria in SDF held territory which is in the north east. And for those prisoners to be tried there. Another option that is being suggested is to have all Of them sent to Iraq and being tried there because Iraq is an actual State and has institutions that are you know, at least on paper equipped to deal with this issue. Those are the two main options that are being discussed right now.

1 (19m 14s):
And of course, they both come with pros and cons and complications, right? So for example for an international tribunal you have the question of well who would pay for it. First of all under what international law would you be trying these? Lesnar's, one of the complicating factors in this conversation is that there is no internationally agreed-upon definition of terrorism, for example, so it would have to be something like crimes against humanity. Right? But if you're trying someone for crimes against humanity, you really have to have solid evidence for that because it's such a serious accusation and there simply isn't enough evidence for most of these people to be convicted for crimes against humanity.

1 (19m 60s):
A lot of the evidence that's being used right now against them is for example, they posted something on social media or there's a video of them sitting next to a corpse or there's an Isis document that lists their name, but those examples and those cases are few and far between for most of the prisoners that are being held in Syria right now the evidence simply wouldn't really stand up in

3 (20m 25s):
court. It's just it strikes me as strange that people. are afraid to bring these terrorists back to the countries where they were born or where they have citizenship to try them in a court of law, but they don't seem afraid right now that Syria may not have the infrastructure to maintain the prison's where they're being kept and that they're falling into this state of legal limbo and could potentially just Escape,

1 (20m 53s):
you know, I know what you mean and I can see how you think it's strange but when you think about it and when you think about Politicians and policymakers in particular it's quite easy for them to to kind of imagine that this isn't going to be a big deal because it's not an immediate threat, right? Like if you bring back people to Europe that is to them an immediate threat that they have to deal with but when you try to explain to them that listen if you leave them in Syria, they might escape from prison the Syrian regime might take control over the prisons and then use them to Blackmail Europe. They could become more radicalized and they could radicalize future Generations if they ever escape, I mean, there are so many awful scenarios on the horizon if you think about just leaving them there, but because that's it seems kind of far like down the road that I think a lot of people convince themselves that all but that's not really a threat.

1 (21m 52s):
I mean that that might never happen, but

3 (21m 56s):
are we risking having stateless militants? From one conflict Zone to another I mean isn't this how Isis was formed in the first place?

1 (22m 6s):
That's exactly right. I mean Isis grew out of Al Qaeda in Iraq. I remember when I was working at the Department of Defense and I was working on the Syria file. I was the Syria country director and I remember, you know in the beginning of 2011 2012 when we first started seeing the first steady slow trickle of foreign Fighters coming into Syria and And you could just tell you knew that this was going to be bad. You knew that. This was not going to end well, but you had leadership across not just in the United States to be fair, but but across Europe as well who were convinced that this was going to be a manageable problem that you could contain this inside Syria and that it wasn't really worth kind of trying to game it out or do anything more serious about it.

1 (22m 60s):
Was because it could be contained and and that's exactly what I see happening. Now, you know the first time around I mean you could fault leadership and all of these countries political leaders either way, but you fault them you fold them even more today because we saw this before and we spent billions of dollars and put together an International Coalition to defeat Isis and we're leaving now and leaving behind thousands. Ends thousands of them in an uncertain fate and we think everything's going to be okay. It's really it's just astounding

3 (23m 41s):
I don't want to fear Monger anything but are you saying that you know, there's this potential here for Isis members who are in these prisons right now who are stuck in legal limbo to regroup and form something newer and even worse than Isis. Is that what you're saying?

1 (23m 57s):
I don't think it's fear mongering at all to say that I think that that is a very possible scenario and I think people need to understand the gravity of the risk that we're facing right now in letting these Fighters kind of languish in Syria under the control of the SDF. Just since October 9th since the Turkish operation began in the Northeast more than a hundred people with alleged links to Isis have escaped. And that's just since October 9th and there are eleven thousand of them across makeshift prisons being guarded by a non-state actor that doesn't have the capacity to hold them indefinitely.

1 (24m 40s):
So it's not fear mongering at all. It is a genuine and Urgent threat and one of the ways to address that threat and there is just no getting around this is that the European countries that have citizens on the ground in Syria. They have a moral and humanitarian and a secure. Three they stop legation to take back their citizens to relieve the burden off of the SDF and to help every country that is doing its part to fight and defeat Isis right now. It's a necessary step and I thought I don't think European countries can kinda nigh that fact, even if they choose not to do anything about it.

3 (25m 26s):
Jasmine el-gamal is a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council Jen Williams who you heard from the first half of the show. She's the co-host of the worldly podcast from box. Today's episode is all about the big news out of Bolivia this week. Was it a coup was it not what comes next listen to worldly to find out this is today explained.

3 (26m 16s):
The year is coming to a close. You got a lot to get done before you flip that calendar over to 2020. Who are we getting there's lots of resolutions you made back in December January that you still haven't resolved yet. You know, don't be so hard on yourself. Let MailChimp help male chimps got an all-in-one marketing platform. Tell me that's not going to help you figure out the rest of your year doubt it mailchimp.com. That's where you can find it.