1 (0s):
Support for the show today comes from another show called revisionist history. It's a podcast from Malcolm Gladwell. He's the 10,000 hours of guy you might know anyway, he takes these Journeys through the overlooked and the Misunderstood every episode re-examine something from the past be an event a person an idea even a song would love songs over here. Anyway, he asks whether we got it right the first time or not. The new season attempts to understand our Attachments to objects to rituals to traditions and to Memories new episodes drop every Thursday through August 20th revisionist history from Pushkin Industries.

1 (41s):
Listen now on Apple podcast Spotify or wherever you get your podcasts baseball's back the reigning world series champions the Washington Nationals. I know why they call it the World Series. Anyway, it's just like a bunch of American teams and one Canadian team doesn't really seem fair. With the World Series champion Washington Nationals had their season opener last night none other than dr. Anthony Fouch. He threw out the ceremonial first pitch. It was a pitch to remember and a bunch of other teams have their season openers today. No, I'm hassenfeld you reported an episode for today explained a couple weeks ago on all the sports coming back in bubbles is baseball doing the same thing.

1 (1m 23s):
Is there a baseball bubble a base bubble? No actually baseball's kind of on its own here men's and women's soccer. Come back inside bubbles men's and women's basketball are coming back inside bubbles. But MLB is planning to play the whole season with every team in its home stadium. Hmm. And is that going to be safe for Major League Baseball? Well, they're testing their doing temperature checks. They've got a lot of new rules. No spitting no sunflower seeds No Seeds No Seeds. No arguing social distancing in The Dugout masks in the clubhouse and the public health expert. I spoke to said this really could work if they follow the Yes, they have a lot of distance between players and they are Outdoors.

1 (2m 5s):
So if they're controlling what's happening in the clubhouse, especially with the testing they're doing I think it is. Okay. This is dr. Tara Kirk cell. She's a senior scholar at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health security, you know if there was a sport that you could avoid doing a bubble and I think baseball is probably one of those there's definitely a risk here just like there is with any other type of reopening but honestly, her biggest concern isn't about the players. It's That fans might have watch parties at home or that it might just give us this sense of normalcy that we don't really deserve. I mean that seems totally fair. What are the fans going to do here? No fans. No fans. No fans. They are going to pump artificial fan noise into stadiums, but the fans themselves are not going to be back and it's really a huge disappointment because fans across the country were looking forward to booing the hell out of the Houston Astros.

1 (2m 56s):
Oh, that's right. The Astros the Astros, it feels like Ages ago but before the pandemic hit there was a baseball Scandal that threatened to tear the entire sport apart is it is it's story time it all started last fall on November 12th. I had three Verizon employees installing cable and internet and I was hiding in my empty office just scrolling Twitter when I scroll across the athletic article Astros cheated in 2017 banging scheme. And from there my eyes kind of wide into my jaw drops. I said ho okay. Jimmy O'Brien runs a YouTube channel called John-Boy media in that article.

1 (3m 39s):
He saw a former Astros pitcher went on the record about one of the most absurd scams in baseball

2 (3m 44s):
history. The Astros

1 (3m 46s):
had a computer monitor right beyond their Dugout and they would watch the signs given from the catcher a

2 (3m 54s):
catcher uses hand signals to tell the

1 (3m 56s):
picture which pitch to throw signs like one finger for fastball to for curveball 3/4 changeup. If they catch her foots down two fingers or three fingers, they would have another player or

2 (4m 8s):
Personnel banging a trash can send the signal to the batter. If there's not a bang that means it's a fastball

1 (4m 17s):
if the hitters did hear a bang they'd know to expect a curve ball or a changeup rumors had been out there forever. And now my jaws kind of drop like, oh my God, this is it as I'm reading the article details that Danny Farquhar the relief pitcher for the White Sox says He stepped off the mound in the middle of

2 (4m 36s):
an at-bat because he heard the banging. So Jimmy thought that has to be on

1 (4m 41s):
camera somewhere. So you can easily go to his game logs and see the two times you pitch in Houston and find it Jimmy wanted to see if the banging was loud enough to hear on regular TV broadcasts. It was so

2 (4m 54s):
he put together a video. I found the footage. Let's watch it fastball. No bang at all. Next pitch there's The Change-Up Fang bang and park while steps off and says hey they got the fucking signs. We got to change this. This is super upsetting.

1 (5m 15s):
He uploaded the video to YouTube muted is phone so I didn't get back home till later at night and then I looked at my phone and it was insane texts emails calls from Friends fans media and Jimmy kept

2 (5m 27s):
findings more footage with the banging in the background more evidence that the Astros were cheetah. Another one. Here's another one and then you know, everyone started finding them and I would add them to the thread and the Astros didn't just

1 (5m 39s):
cheat. They won the World Series while cheating. They got to visit the White

2 (5m 43s):
House. They got enormous diamond rings and they each got almost a half

1 (5m 47s):
million dollars in bonuses is this was a team that did this and didn't win. They might get laughed at in like, huh? That didn't work at all. What were you doing? But the fact that it worked makes it worse the Sports World pretty much exploded these videos made the cheating so clear and you didn't have to be a hardcore fan to get it even they maybe they've never watched baseball ever can understand. Oh I get it. That is bad. Before we go any further. Let's clear something up stealing signs not against the rules feeling signs is part of the game. This is former pro ball player. Darryl Hamilton. I

2 (6m 26s):
mean, you know, if you're not trying to figure out what the other team is doing then obviously you're not trying to win a

1 (6m 32s):
game but not all signed stealing is the same sign stealing is illegal. If you use cameras Electronics or any technological device to Aid you in stealing the signs the Astros trash can Said was low-tech but the camera and computer monitor live streaming the catcher signs were not by the end of 2017. They had complaints players have said we sent it up the ladder internally and complained and nothing happened MLB didn't take any action to stop the Astros. So rival teams change tactics. They started using sequences instead of just single numbers the catcher put sound no 1331 and then the pitcher knows it's the third signal or it's the second.

1 (7m 15s):
Signal they have their own sequence and they started using that in 2018 because people knew what was happening in 2017, but that didn't really help against the Astros. The Astros had this thing called codebreaker. It's a computer learning algorithm. So say the catcher puts down to 1 2 3 and then the pitcher throws a fastball other Astros would then enter that into code breaker? 2 1 2 3 fastball the next pitch is 2312, and that's a curveball. Pitch pipe it in and buy five or six these computer algorithms can decode what it is and then you can enter the signs and it will spit out what pitch is going to come.

1 (7m 57s):
The cheating went on for years then right after the 2019 World Series the athletic article drops. Jimmy uploads his video and Major League Baseball starts to panic MLB did a thorough investigation. Suspended the manager and general manager for the Astros for one year without pay they find the team five million dollars, which is the max amount and then they also took away some future draft picks and the big takeaway from that investigation. They confirmed. Yes the asterisk cheated and I cheated in the postseason as well. But MLB let the players off the hook.

1 (8m 38s):
They were given full immunity if they spoke and came clean about what happened. That's the same day that MLB.

2 (8m 45s):
Publishes the

1 (8m 45s):
investigation the Astros respond. Today is a

2 (8m 48s):
very difficult day for the Houston Astros. The Astros owner. Jim

1 (8m 51s):
Crane has a press conference announcing that he has fired the manager of the Astros and the general manager of the Astros. You can be

2 (9m 0s):
confident that we will always do the right thing and will not have this happen again on my watch but that didn't

1 (9m 8s):
exactly end things. I think Major League Baseball's should fly in the Houston go to the the Astros facilities and confiscate that World Series trophy immediately and the Astros haven't been to apologetic. We as a team are

2 (9m 25s):
totally focused on moving forward to the 2020

1 (9m 28s):
season. They will not admit that they cheated they say they broke some

2 (9m 32s):
rules. May I ask is a cheating? Excuse me. Do you use the word cheating was this cheating? We broke the rules and you can praise that anyway you want their tone, especially the Her it's just just Rings false. You know, our opinion is that this didn't impact the game. We had a good team. We won the World Series and we'll leave it at that

1 (9m 57s):
players who didn't play for the Astros weren't buying the apology or the

2 (10m 1s):
punishment guy said it wasn't impacting the game you kidding me, you know you bang on trash cans knowing pictures common definitely does

1 (10m 9s):
I think the league thought a lot of teams maybe do stuff like this and they would keep their mouths shut. Because they don't want to get caught as well, but that was not the case.

2 (10m 18s):
I know personally I lost respect for those guys. I mean these guys were cheering for three years. They've cheated the game. They've cheated us as players. They can't take responsibility for their actions and doesn't sit right what should have happened was the commissioner vacated their championship and then we move forward you're playing the Olympics. You want to go metal and you find out you cheated you don't get to keep that

1 (10m 38s):
metal. Some players are going even further. The Astros are being sued by a former pitcher named Mike bolsinger who probably still has nightmares of banging trash cans. He accuses the strolls listen to this of unfair business practices negligence and intentional interference with contractual economic relations on August 4th. 2017 bolsinger came into a

2 (11m 3s):
game against the Astros and the first batter walked next batter hit a home run. Double and a walk a single and a single and a walk and finally got a Fly ball, which is a deep Fly ball. So he faced one, two, three, four, five six eight batters. He got one batter out. And that was it for both singer after that game. He never pitched again in the majors. In fact, he wasn't even offered another. contract

1 (11m 48s):
Both singer isn't the only one filing a lawsuit Here season ticket holders have filed their own lawsuit and a group of fantasy baseball players even tried to pull together a class action and MLB's response. They essentially said the cheating is a part of the game and they're not wrong mom's got that after a break. This is Advertiser content.

1 (12m 30s):
Hey guys, this is Bo's. I'm a podcaster a gamer streamer and just kind of all over the internet today with the help of Samsung Galaxy 5G. I'm looking at the waist 5G is going to impact our ability to be creative in a connected World art and techer now intersecting a new fascinating ways and it's making our lives easier. This has been Joe our was a fashion and celebrity photographer I count on the phone today. answer me images from the location scouting and answer my questions about engines of like it's just helped me to narrow down my mind to think a bit more creatively less technically 5G also takes business to the next level it definitely Advance my workflow the communication with clients and editors a good camera that they can actually capture on set and to share seamlessly to social media to keep documented reports of met behind the scenes and when the technology gets smoother ER it opens up more time for making art or whatever it is.

1 (13m 29s):
You love to do take your creativity to the next level with 5G today Galaxy

2 (13m 34s):
5G now available in

1 (13m 36s):
Galaxy S 25g and a 71 5G feels good to be first with Samsung. I remember I used to have a history teacher back at UCLA who said to us that there are times when you could feel the fists of History tightening around you also thought about that. She was talking not long after

2 (13m 59s):
9/11. But this is another one of those moments. It is a hinge

1 (14m 3s):
moment in the American Democratic experiment. The entire Globe is being battered by the coronavirus. We're dealing with some of our oldest moons in this country on top of entirely new technologies like it is a crazy time.

2 (14m 16s):
Mr. Klein host of years

1 (14m 18s):
of Hangzhou podcast and what we're trying to do right now is understand our time and try to find some of the ideas that might help us chart a way out of it the past few months. We've talked to Tom a Seacoast about why the protest made him actually hopeful demariont'e Basu kado about the ways in which economic profession has misunderstood the concept and this measure the concept of value to Elizabeth Warren about her plan to combat the coronavirus trust outfit about whether or not American societies become decadence. These have all been great conversations and there are So many more I hope you'll join me every Monday and Thursday to stay informed and maybe we get a sense of hope as well subscribe to this recline show on Apple podcast Spotify or whatever you're listening to this right now.

1 (15m 7s):
The Astros sign stealing scheme was big news, but to Baseball fans. It wasn't really out of the ordinary according to sports writer Joe posnanski sign stealing isn't just tolerated. It's a core part of baseball. It is just embedded in the game that if you can find a way to get a little of Advantage you should do it and we're not just talking about peaking at the catcher here. We're talking elaborate high-tech Heist. I will sign stealing it goes back to the very beginning.

2 (15m 36s):
So in 1899, there was a team called the Philadelphia Athletics. Here we go. Now, hey that team was the best hitting team in the National League. They developed a reputation as a team that you could not throw a high fastball to get them and it turned out it's because they had a guy who would sit in the center field usually in the managers sweet and he had binoculars or a telescope of some kind, you know, I don't like and You would steal the signs from the catcher he would stare in and know what pitch was coming basketball. But the second part of that is you have to get word to The Hitter of what that pitch is set at the fastball and what they had was a buzzer system believe it or not in 1899.

2 (16m 22s):
Now out of this thing, right the third base coach was wearing a buzzer. Yeah. This thing is that you and the sign stealer would press a button in such a way to let the third-base coach know exactly what pitch was coming and where it was coming. So if it was going to be a high fastball versus a low fastball You would basically yell out a cold worth and that's how they would steal sides. This wasn't just limited to the turn of the 20th century though. Some of baseball's most iconic moments might never have happened without Hi-Tech signs dealing the 1951 Giants were trailing the Dodgers by number of games going into the final few weeks of the Season Dodger manager Chuck dressen declares.

2 (17m 8s):
The Giants is dead. The season seemed over and the Giants went on this extraordinary run caught the Dodgers at the end of the year led by rookie Willie Mays the Giants charge back to force a three-game playoff for the And they ended up playing a very famous playoff, which ended with Bobby Thompson hitting a home run that to this day is still called the shot heard round the world. I remember a few years ago. I did a list of the 32 most famous home runs and it was number one and it turns out they were using a system a buzzer system just the same.

2 (17m 49s):
Basically it was the same scheme

1 (17m 50s):
looking through a telescope and then

2 (17m 52s):
buzzing different people to flash the signs to The Hitter so

1 (17m 55s):
that would hurts more than

2 (17m 57s):
the 1899 Athletics because it tramples upon one of the most storied seasons in baseball history.

1 (18m 4s):
As technology got more advanced sign stealing did

2 (18m 7s):
too. Now. There are many different ways to get word to The Hitter of me a couple of years ago. There was you know a small range Scandal about the Yankees and the Red

1 (18m 16s):
Sox using their apple

2 (18m 17s):
watches to steal size, which actually is a very smart way to do it. If

1 (18m 21s):
you're going to do it that's probably way better than a buzzer system this century plus of high-tech sign stealing it was frowned upon but it wasn't technically against any official Will's MLB did send out a few sort of warnings over the last few decades. But Hi-Tech signs stealing didn't make it into the official rule book until 2019 over a year after the Astros were banging on trash cans. It's almost like baseball wanted this stuff to keep happening cheating is such an integral part of baseball. We're talking cheating that goes Way Beyond sign stealing, you know, one of the most famous players managers is a guy named John McGraw.

1 (19m 2s):
Who essentially built his entire baseball philosophy around the idea that if you're not cheating you're not trying

2 (19m 14s):
John Joseph McGraw a truculent swaggering fiery egotist who was pure genius? He was famous for all sorts of different cheating. He used to grab of runners belt when he was trying to tag up from third base to prevent it from scoring. He used to have the groundskeeper not water the dirt in front of home plate. So that the hitters could chop the ball into the dirt have it bounce up really high in the air and that way they can get singles and he did this in Baltimore and to this day. It's still called the Baltimore chop, but Gras was the most hated beloved envied and admired feared and respected man in the game.

2 (20m 2s):
There is very much a Within the game that cheating itself is part of the drama as part of the fabric of baseball. So there's always been a reluctance to you know, make the rules to black and white. I guess you would have to

1 (20m 16s):
say Okay, but like what does it mean to say cheating is part of the fabric of baseball. I mean it's cheating is part of the game than isn't it not cheating. Yeah. These are you have nailed one of the great sort of riddles of baseball because yes baseball is wanted to say the the cheating is cheating you should do it, but the other hand cheaters are celebrated in so many

2 (20m 41s):
ways, you know, I mean, there's one of

1 (20m 43s):
the most famous players in baseball histories Gaylord Perry wrote a whole book about how he used the spitball.

2 (20m 48s):
Now

1 (20m 48s):
we fooled people with it. Yeah, he's like an admitted obvious cheater and he's in the Hall of Fame yet on the other hand. You look back the greatest scandal in baseball history other than what should have been the greatest panel which was segregation. But the greatest actual scandal in baseball history was the 1919 Chicago White Sox the you know, throwing the World Series the black socks. Well, there are numerous teams in the 1910s through World Series or through games gambling was a huge. Out of the game and baseball kept looking the other way because it was in baseball's best interest to look the other way. Hmm. Well suddenly after 1919. Suddenly people were like, oh baseball's not it's not authentic.

1 (21m 29s):
It's not real and baseball had to come in and do something and of course that was the case where they drew the most famous line and baseball which is you can't gamble on the game a line. That is so strict that Pete Rose many many many years later gambled on baseball and is still banned for eternity from the game. So, That's when baseball act when it's too late when all the cheating has become so bad. But once you start getting to the point where people start questioning what they're seeing, which is I think what happened with the 2017 Astros that's what baseball has to act in. That's what baseball does act. You know, I was speaking with somebody in the baseball office just after this Astro Scandal and we were talking about this larger picture of baseball wanting to change.

1 (22m 18s):
Needing to change and yet not really wanting to change at all and he said something really interesting. He said we're fighting is people's unwillingness to grow old people don't want to believe the time has gone on they want everything to stay the way it was and it's a losing battle for all of baseball's long history skirting. The rules has been at the heart of the game and MLB has been reluctant to change that but this year the pain Mick has brought about arguably the biggest changes. The game has ever seen. Both leagues will have a designated hitter Extra Innings will start with a runner on second and no one will be allowed to even spit on top of that.

1 (23m 1s):
No more fans social distancing temperature checks, testing baseball has shown it can change dramatically in just a few months. But if it wants to survive the league that's always tried to get around rules is finally going to have to follow them.

2 (23m 23s):
No one hasn't failed. He's their Sports correspondent over there at today. Explain Julian Weinberger edited the episode and Sean Roberts berm is the host. The rest of the team has a film Shapiro Ali Machado Bridget McCarthy moves 80 and I'm gonna oh, sorry Cecilia, like checks the facts and brake master cylinder writes the jingle Liz Kelly Nelson is boxes editorial director of podcasts and today explain this part of the VOX media podcast Network.