0 (1s):
Support for the show day comes from NerdWallet smart money podcast. Once again, you know, that panic you feel when you think about your finances. Well, if you listen to this podcast, you might not feel quite so panicked. You might even feel prepared every week that our hosts invite experts from their team of finance geniuses, to answer listeners' money questions, whether you're a finance pro, a finance bro, a finance amateur, or whatever, you might be NerdWallet, smart money podcast is worth checking out. It's available now, wherever you listen, Support for the program today comes from financial times. If you want to understand what the heck is going on in the world right now, you know, you come to us for that, but that doesn't mean you can't also go to the financial times.

0 (48s):
The financial times breaks down the biggest topics of the day and analyzes how they actually impact your life. And I know you're into that kind of thing, cause he listened to today, explained if you're interested in coverage, that looks at how global leaders and businesses and think tankers can create a better future in both finance and larger issues like climate change and technology and income inequality, and more. And you got to start reading the F T visit F t.com/new agenda to read carefully selected free articles and save 50% on an annual digital subscription.

0 (1m 30s):
That is Ft com slash new agenda. It's I explained I'm Sean Rama's firm and it's October spooky season autumn fall. And it's all happening. And schools have been back for a whole month. Now, teachers and administrators have been dealing with two huge unprecedented challenges at once doing live in person school safely in a pandemic and helping kids get back on track after a year plus of quote unquote, remote learning.

0 (2m 15s):
But now they're all back. They've been back for weeks. So it felt like a good time to ask how that experiments going. So we sent today explains miles Brian, back to school.

2 (2m 26s):
Yeah, I went to a Cramer hill elementary school. It's in Camden, New Jersey, just across the river from where I live in Philly and a couple of fast facts. It's a K through eight school. So it has kids ages five to 13 to 14. The school has about 800 kids and more than 90% of them are black and Latino. And most of their families are living under the poverty line. So when you talk about kids that are at the biggest risk of learning loss during COVID, these kids are in that group. Tell us

0 (2m 52s):
When you did your like 21 jump street thinking I did

2 (2m 55s):
My 21 jump street thing back in late August. The first week that they were back in school,

3 (3m 3s):
Got a VIP press pass.

2 (3m 6s):
I stood up a few minutes before school started to meet up with Jesse Guzman Kramer Hills principal.

3 (3m 12s):
I'm Jesse in the plat to

2 (3m 16s):
The first thing that jumped out at me was, you know, I was there before school even started. And even then there were already a few dozen parents and about a hundred kids already queued up to go inside.

3 (3m 26s):
I want to be with kids. They want to be with their peers. They're excited to go to lunch. They're excited for Jim in a way that is like tenfold, which makes like the buy-in of learning even easier this year, which is awesome.

2 (3m 38s):
Principal gives Mandy's 33. She grew up nearby and she's been at creamer hill for 11 years. So basically her whole career, you know, she started as a teacher and then became an assistant principal and is now the principal. And she's just one of those people who's always put together and bursting with enthusiasm, which is sort of striking to me after working from home for the last year and a half. And only seeing people on zoom. You know, her nails are always impeccable drops a lot of fresh jumpsuits. What time do you get up to get your morning routine and be here?

3 (4m 5s):
I get up at 5:00 AM every morning to start my morning routine. I was here about 40 minutes ago and usually am every morning. Hey, well, here's the math. Why are we eating ice cream for breakfast? Love just the question. Hey Kayla, good morning.

2 (4m 25s):
It's worth pointing out here that all those kids with maybe the exception of ice cream meeting will we're wearing a mask Cramer hill elementary started the year with a lot of COVID protocols in place, mandatory masking, weekly testing of at least 50% of students. And this is pretty common, not just in Camden or in a big Northeast city, but basically in all urban school districts, a recent survey of 200 of the biggest school districts found three quarters of them have a mask mandate

0 (4m 50s):
Kids other than ice cream will feel about masking though. Are they like pestered by

2 (4m 54s):
What's the deal? You know, they seem fine. I spent a lot of my time at Cramer hill with the eighth graders and they didn't even make it a thing. And frankly, they just seem so stoked to be back in school. Like that was such a big change for the better they weren't that concerned about still wearing masks. Hmm.

0 (5m 9s):
What were these kids' experiences with

2 (5m 11s):
The pandemic? Like, you know, principal gives Mondi said it was really tough. She told me about this moment. She had an April of 2020, so that's maybe a couple of weeks after schools in the state of New Jersey and the rest of the country had shut down due to COVID and she goes into the building. Anyway, she goes into the school building and she's holding this conference call with her teachers to try and figure out how the heck they're going to keep teaching these kids.

3 (5m 36s):
And I was telling everyone, I know we're going to be okay, I'm happy, you're safe. I'm happier. Kids are safe. Or we're going to figure this out day by day, I hung up the phone and cried

2 (5m 51s):
And you know, Sean, they got through it, the mastery charter school network, which runs Cramer hill. It had some grant money that they could use to buy Chromebooks for every kid. But even with those resources, there were huge educational impacts. It's going to take a while to figure out exactly how the pandemic has impacted school aged kids nationwide, but there is some preliminary data and it's already pretty clear one. The pandemic definitely costs learning loss and specifically it most effected the kids who were already behind their peers. When the pandemic hit the way it gives money, put it with kids that were in sixth grade in the spring of 2020, the ones that were reading and doing math at grade level, most of them continue to be on track.

2 (6m 34s):
They're probably okay. But the kids who were already behind when COVID hit the ones who were reading at a fifth grade level when they were in sixth grade, a lot of them are now in eighth grade and still reading at that fifth grade level, they got left behind

3 (6m 46s):
It is my goal and mission. And the thing that keeps me up at night as a principle is by may of 2022, my eighth grade state test scores are equal to what they would have been or what they were on track to be two years ago.

0 (7m 6s):
So it was like playing catch up the big focus of this new school year at Cramer hill elementary.

2 (7m 11s):
You know, it's definitely a big focus, but there's this other equally big focus, which is just how to make sure these kids know how to be around each other. You know, teach them how to exist in a social environment. Again, this is especially important in middle school, particularly for those eighth graders. I talked to, you know, they're preparing to make the jump to high school next year. It's a really important transition, but socially, a lot of them are still back in sixth grade. You know, they're not ready because Mani told us about this incident in the second week of school, when one eighth grader camp to another and like made a comment about their shirt or their shoes. And that first kid was ready to throw down and have a physical fight.

3 (7m 46s):
So like talk to their parents and do that peer mediation. But they're rusty. Unlike how to engage proactively or ignore somebody when they're being a jerk. I also think that there's social fatigue.

0 (8m 1s):
You spend the entire day in the principal's office or did you actually get to hit some classrooms and talk to them?

2 (8m 5s):
I did get to hit some classrooms and talk to some kids and a teacher. This dude named Justin Newell. He teaches eighth grade language arts at Cramer hill elementary. And he kindly led me into his classroom to kind of shadow what he's doing.

4 (8m 18s):
They want to share today. Before we get started on our actual academic work, anybody want to share whatever it is you have to overcome or whatever it is that you're trying to grow from.

2 (8m 30s):
Just to paint you a picture, you know, it's like a pretty traditional classroom. There's little desks lined up in rows facing whiteboard, lots of construction, paper art on the walls. Newell has been a teacher for about 20 years and sometimes it showed, are you all

4 (8m 42s):
Young to remember the week? Remember you make a character that looked like yourself. We me, my, we me look exactly like,

0 (8m 55s):
Hold on a second. Your example

2 (8m 56s):
Of how he's been a teacher for 20 years, that it showed is that he referenced the Nintendo wi which is like a recent Nintendo. I must be like, <inaudible> out here. If that is your example. But anyway, he's got to me like kind of a cop five, at least in how he looks. He wears this tight polo shirt every day, really, really strong, shiny bald head, but he's actually like a pretty goofy guy. He goes by the nickname pu like Winnie the Pooh and his class is a bunch of, we need the poo stuff given to him by former students. And generally he's just one of those teachers that kids love that week. They were covering literature about Chicago and Noah was lecturing on a Kanye west song that 2007 track homecoming Newell treated the verses, like stands as an a poem and asked the kids to give it a close, read

4 (9m 44s):
Your skin. That first line of the second verse or the second stanza. I said, I met this girl when I was three years old. Any predictions come out of that? Any predictions come out of that? Shantelle

2 (10m 0s):
Having all those kids back in the classroom, it just felt great. He said, trying to teach on zoom for most of the past two years, it was humbling. Even his best students.

4 (10m 9s):
And then you throw in those kids who weren't as academically motivated and they're not showing up, they're figuring out how to make their screen go black so they can tell grandma that it was broken and they don't know how to work it. And then all they did was turn their brightness down all the way. And grandma had no idea. Like they were just all these different things you had to deal with in order to get these kids, to see that we can still learn and come out on the other side.

0 (10m 34s):
So all those kids who weren't showing up to class online last year, are they happy to be back now?

2 (10m 39s):
You know, from what I heard talking to them, they might not have been quite as enthusiastic as their teachers, but the kids basically agreed. I'm

5 (10m 45s):
Not a big fan of online school. You don't do a lot of things

2 (10m 48s):
Being in person beats, being online, like

5 (10m 51s):
Field trips, no lunch and recess with your friends

2 (10m 56s):
And Sean. Like, I think it's hard to remember if you don't have a kid in middle school, but you know, that time is intense every day. There's drama with your friends and your frenemies. And there are crushes and adventures, but for the last couple of school years, you know, these kids have been super isolated. I talked to this one student, a girl named Sean tall, who said class for her, always meant staring at a sea of black boxes.

6 (11m 17s):
A lot of people didn't like to have the camera on and the t-shirt would always be frustrated and be like, I want to see all your pretty faces, but none of them wanted to show their faces. How'd you feel about that felt kind of awkward. Sounds

0 (11m 31s):
Like a box. All staff meeting.

2 (11m 34s):
Yeah. And Shantelle didn't love it either. And you know, she told me she spent a lot of the last academic year in the Dominican Republic where her family's from. And she said, you know, she was always a good student, but the internet in the Dominican Republic, wasn't always great.

6 (11m 48s):
More easier to ask for help. Now I could just be like, raise my hand and be like, I need help with this. When it was in computer, I had to text everything and be fast with it

2 (11m 59s):
And new all the teacher, you know, he told me there's one other middle school vibe that is back in full force with kids back in the classroom hormones. They don't know how to interact

4 (12m 7s):
In person. They didn't have

2 (12m 8s):
The in-person game,

4 (12m 9s):
Right? The game you can spit online is not the same game you have to employ when you're in person, because they don't, they don't have a clue about that.

2 (12m 18s):
The day I shadowed newest classroom, most of the time was actually not taken up with a Kanye lecture or with adolescent flirting. But with this test, it was sort of a benchmark test to see where the kids were at Newell says, you know, to make sure the kids advance this year, make up those learning losses. He has to see where they're starting off

4 (12m 37s):
A range of kids from the fourth grade reading level, up to beginning or mid of where they should be in their eighth grade year. I'm excited about being able to take them from where they are, to where they need to be, to get ready for us. They understand that our tests to play the game, as we said, okay,

0 (12m 52s):
So crushes and Kanye and this assessment test aside, I feel like the elephant in the classroom here is the Delta variant. You went to Cramer hill in late August. Were they scared about Delta and its impact in the classroom?

2 (13m 7s):
You know, to be fair, it gives Mondi a Newell, both talked a lot, even in that first week about making sure kids and staff states safe from COVID. And like I said, there were some pretty rigorous COVID policies in place already at that time. But you know, in our first conversations NewLink is Mondi were optimistic that COVID, wasn't going to be as much of a foreground issue this school year. Still, even in that first week, there were signs that COVID was intruding in all sorts of ways. Some of which were pretty surprising to me Like that first day, his mind, he said there was a shortage of math textbooks because supply chains were still all messed up. And more importantly, there was a shortage of bus drivers. You might have seen the headlines about this, but there's a bus driver shortage all around the country.

2 (13m 50s):
What that meant at Cramer hill is that some kids couldn't get to school. There just simply wasn't a bus to pick them up.

0 (13m 58s):
Okay. So clearly the pandemic was causing some headaches in that first week, but we haven't even talked about COVID cases in the school. Was that an issue?

2 (14m 8s):
Well,

3 (14m 9s):
After a week and a half of in-person school, the hope that I had that COVID would not be at the forefront of the work that we do is just absolutely inaccurate.

2 (14m 25s):
I'm going to tell you more about it in a minute. Fine

8 (14m 40s):
Support for this episode comes from first Republic bank, discover a new way to make banking, personalized. Your dedicated first Republic. Banker will guide you toward financial solutions that fit your needs from a checking or savings account to identifying the right loan for your situation. First Republic's commitment to extraordinary service is designed to change the way you feel about banking. Stop by their new locations in the Hudson yards, Manhattan west neighborhood, or visit first republic.com/locations to find a first Republic preferred banking office near you member FAIC, equal housing lender.

9 (15m 14s):
Rod now will live in it. You are listening to the Tony winning Grammy, winning Broadway musical, like no other Haiti's town is back on Broadway. The New York times raves his sumptuous gorgeous. You wish you could live in the glowy moment forever. Come see how the world could be at Haley's town. Get tickets now at <inaudible> dot com.

0 (15m 52s):
Okay. So miles you show up to creamer hill elementary principal cause Mondi and Mr. Newell are very optimistic. The students are stoked to be back, but then COVID rears its ugly head. What happened?

2 (16m 4s):
Yeah, it's sort of like that meme. You might've seen my fall plans on the left. The Delta variant on the right, you know, the first week was the, my fall plans have very rosy, pretty upbeat, but by week two gives Monte a new, a both seem kind of rundown because Mondi said that Monday. So the first day of the second full week of school, they found out a kid had been exposed to COVID and it's like, of course a kid is eventually going to get exposed. The pandemic is still very much happening, but you know, this is the Delta variant half of the meme because this one exposure totally blows up. The schools, teachers and administrators day, you know, gives Monte, has to contact, trace everybody who's near the kid. She has to send out notices to parents. They're freaking out

3 (16m 43s):
In three feet distance. It's more than a mask. It's more than air filters. It's just every single system that a school is run on, where there are hundreds of have to have a pandemic proof.

0 (16m 59s):
And this is an elementary school. So like are any of these kids even vaccinated?

2 (17m 3s):
It's a little tricky to figure out. So, you know, just as a reminder, vaccines are currently available for kids 12 and up Cramer hill elementary is a K through eight school. So K through six are so they're out of luck. They can't get the vaccine, but most middle schoolers should be able to get the shot. Principal gives Mondi said 90% of her staff was vaccinated, but those middle-schoolers not so much

3 (17m 23s):
When we had to do quarantining in eighth grade, we had to call quite a number of, of kiddos and only two of the children were vaccinated.

2 (17m 32s):
Hm. The reason she's referencing that process is because the school does not explicitly track the vaccination status of its kids. But if the kid is vaccinated, they don't have to quarantine. If they were exposed, it's worth pointing out that a lower vaccination rate for middle-schoolers is true nationwide. Only about 45% of 12 to 17 year olds are fully vaccinated compared to about 66% of adults in the U S so the

0 (17m 57s):
Variant almost immediately starts causing logistical and health concerns. What does that mean for learning for actual education?

2 (18m 6s):
Well, in a direct sense, that means that students who aren't vaccinated, but get exposed to COVID have to quarantine, which means they have to switch back to virtual learning for up to 10 days. But even kids who aren't exposed to COVID have been struggling back in the classroom. Like it, it turns out you can't just spend a year and a half online taking breaks and getting up whenever you want. And then switch back to sitting in a desk, eight hours a day, that teacher Newell, he says his kids are really struggling to stay focused. He calls it zoom lag. I'm trying to build him.

4 (18m 34s):
I'm trying to build in like, like little mental games and things like that to make sure that the kids are staying engaged in their present in the lesson. Like besides just being here,

2 (18m 44s):
It's a noodle is working hard to figure out how to keep his zoom, adult kids engaged in his courses. And actually during this call, which is in the second week of school, you will say there was something else that had him a bit rundown. And it wasn't just the stress of coming back to school.

4 (19m 1s):
I haven't been nervous this whole time. And I started having like some chest discomfort and it was like, I was like, do I have, do I have the Rona? So I ran down to the narrows and got a rapid test. It was all nervous, but it came back negative. So I was okay though. He was nervous

0 (19m 13s):
About COVID.

2 (19m 14s):
Yeah, yeah. I mean, who wouldn't be if you're having some chest discomfort, right. I don't catch up with them again until about a week later, I reached out on a Friday in the middle of the day. I texted him because I figured he's in class and would get back to me later. But he texted me back right away and says, he's at home. He just finished quarantining. That rapid test is wrong. He had COVID

4 (19m 44s):
When I was like 15, I had pneumonia pretty bad. And it felt very similar to that achy and extreme fatigue and a constant doll headache. Even if I just walked up two steps, I felt like exhausted. I had to stop halfway through and just gather myself just to go like get some juice or whatever

0 (20m 10s):
Mr. Noah was.

2 (20m 12s):
Oh yeah. He got vaccinated as soon as he cooked super pro-vaccine. So this is

0 (20m 16s):
Breakthrough COVID

2 (20m 17s):
Here. Yeah. Yeah. It's breakthrough. COVID

0 (20m 19s):
Still sounds like it sucks. What did he do? Did he stop teaching or did he forge ahead from home?

2 (20m 25s):
He definitely wasn't teaching from home. He was mostly just sitting around bored, trying to avoid contact with his sons and stressing about his students.

4 (20m 33s):
I was worried about my students. Like, did I give it to my students? That one of them give it to me if it, like, if I had my way, I would rather get it from my students as opposed to be the one that introduces it to the classroom. So

0 (20m 45s):
Did he get any of his kids sick? Does he know?

2 (20m 48s):
Yeah. A couple of his students were out that week and subsequently at least half a dozen, eighth graders tested positive for COVID at Cramer hill. But principal gives Mondi, said they did contact tracing and every single case had a home link. So it seems like a new old didn't get anyone sick, but you know, noodles case, at least to me illustrates just how pernicious COVID effect on even a well-prepared school can be. As I said, you know, Newell was vaccinated and remember Cramer hill tests, at least 50% of its students every week, but nothing caught his case until he'd been teaching for a couple of days, potentially exposing students or other staff

0 (21m 22s):
Who taught his class when he was out. If he can't find bus drivers, I imagine it's also hard to find substitute teachers.

2 (21m 28s):
He's lucky enough to have a student teacher who led the class, but he told me that he was painfully aware of all the progress. His class was not making when he was out.

4 (21m 36s):
We have a lot to do. I talked to you about like all the testing that we do in our schools who are non-testing days are at a premium. I don't really have any time to waste. I don't really have time to be sick.

0 (21m 45s):
And we've just been talking about Mr. Newell's classroom. What's going on with the rest of Cramer hill, did COVID spread outside. His classroom

2 (21m 51s):
Kids kept getting sick with COVID. Eighth graders kept testing positive. And pretty soon after Newell was sick, the entire eighth grade had to quarantine for a day to try and slow the spread. As of late September, they were back in the classroom. And the last time we interviewed principal <inaudible> around that time, she took pains to point out that the COVID positive rate at Cramer hill is just 1.5%. So only 1.5% of the tests they do come back positive, but even so fear of catching and spreading COVID is that all these ripple effects that just affect the whole school, not just the kids and staff who have to quarantine or get sick, like attendance

3 (22m 28s):
Every year on average for the last three years before COVID we had 93% daily attendance this year, we cannot get above 90%. And I know that those 3% sounds small, but I want to like call them out as this example of my fear, that we're going to be like constantly three to 5% shy of like everything, because parents are keeping their kids home when they're sniffly,

2 (22m 54s):
This stuff adds up.

0 (22m 55s):
I mean, it adds up for the students. And obviously it adds up for these teachers and administrators who, who never signed up to be like pandemic warriors. I wonder, you know, for people like principal cause Mondi or Mr. Newell, how do they feel about their positions right now?

2 (23m 13s):
You know, I talked to knew about this. I asked him about how he was feeling about his vocation after getting COVID. I asked if he was questioning anything. And he said, no, he told me that going all in as a teacher, it means accepting big sacrifices and a certain level of risk that other professions might not. And he made this comparison that sort of surprised me. He compared COVID to the pandemic of gun violence in schools.

4 (23m 35s):
If it wasn't, this we'd be having locked down drills and have to worry about classroom and shooters and things like that. When you're in this game, like you don't think about that kind of stuff. You just think these are my kids. These are my babies. These are who I have to get to the next phase. And it just so happens that my next phase is getting them in high school, which is extremely pivotal.

0 (23m 52s):
So it sounds like Mr. Newell's just a bit of a hero here, but surely not every teacher out there in the countries having the same experience. I mean, I know a public school teacher who's considering quitting because she just doesn't feel safe and wants to protect her family. How does the Cramer hill experience compare to the rest of the country right now?

2 (24m 12s):
You know, what happened at Cramer hill is actually pretty average. Here's one piece of context from verbiage, a data service that's tracking school closings by late September, over 2000 schools had shut down in person learning entirely due to COVID. So not just quarantining a grade, but actually shut the school down. At least temporarily what happened at Cramer hill, but NewLink is Mondi. And those kids went through, you know, it's tough, it's a struggle. They shouldn't have had to deal with it, but every parent should be prepared for something like that. This year, where I landed after spending a couple of weeks with gizmo, Andy and Newell is that their school Cramer hill, it's doing nearly everything, right?

2 (24m 56s):
In terms of returning to school during the pandemic, you know, they have masks, they have testing, the adults are getting the vaccines. They've had relatively few cases so far, but even so COVID has crept into pretty much every aspect of how the school operates and it's made it all way harder. And that burden is just so brutal for teachers and administrators and students to have to be dealing with right now, considering how much ground they have to make up from the last two years. One of the last times I talked to <inaudible>, she told me she'd pegged her hopes for a more normal year on sometime this fall, when the federal government is expected to approve vaccines for kids under 12.

3 (25m 35s):
I really hope that by November we're feeling at like some plateau and like some predictable cadence, because the like unpredictability is the rollercoaster that I'm like ready to get off,

2 (25m 49s):
Getting the families of those kids to take the vaccine. That'll be a whole nother challenge.

0 (26m 3s):
Miles' Brian, he's a producer. And quite clearly also a reporter here at today's explained he had help reporting this episode from Jillian Weinberger, Matthew Collette edited a FIM Shapiro engineered Laura Bullard fact check, thanks to MPRs education correspondent, Anya cabinets for her council. The rest of the team includes we'll read Halima SHA <inaudible> and Victoria Chamberlain. We use music from Breakmaster cylinder and no I'm Hassenfeld to Liz. Kelly Nelson is Vox is Veep of audio today explained as a part of the Vox media podcast network.

11 (27m 18s):
This episode is brought to you by off zero. The log-in experience can make or break your customer's first impression of your business. It's important to get it right, but you want your dev team to focus on innovation and improvements to your product. Oxy row is an identity platform for developers. They provide simple, secure and adaptable login for applications and businesses with Aussie row. Your user gets the convenient log and experience they want with the security, your industry demands. It's simple to build and customize the log-in that fits your brand best with features like social log-in multi-factor authentication, single sign on and more. Learn more@authzero.com.

11 (27m 59s):
That's a U T H zero.com.