0 (1s):
A few weeks ago, my friend Amy texted me a video. It was nighttime in New York City. She was biking down some street wind, blowing in her hair, filming herself with her front facing camera, tears

1 (13s):
Of the kingdom.

0 (15s):
She asked me to send the video to my brother in Montreal. He sent one back.

2 (19s):
Tears of the kingdom, tears of the Kingdom tears.

0 (27s):
I wasn't completely sure what was going on, but I was pretty sure it had something to do with Zelda.

1 (32s):
Tears of the Kingdom,

0 (34s):
The Legend of Zelda. Tears of the Kingdom drops Today, it will probably be the biggest video game of the summer and it'll probably do bigger numbers than any album, TV show or movie in the world.

2 (46s):
Tears of the kingdom

0 (48s):
Coming up on today explained how tears of the kingdom and especially its 2017 predecessor breath of the wild are turning grownups into gamers.

5 (1m 1s):
The honorable, the Chief Justice and the

6 (1m 3s):
Associates. Most Americans have made up their minds about the Supreme Court. It's either restoring justice, I still

7 (1m 10s):
Believe in the Constitution

6 (1m 13s):
Or destroying America. The Supreme Court's not gonna save us. I'm Julia Longoria and in this season of more perfect. We're making sense of the Supreme Court today. Listen to more Perfect from W N Y C studios wherever you get podcasts.

8 (1m 29s):
This week on the weeds, hundreds of anti L G B T bills have been introduced in state legislatures across the country. The vast majority targeting trans rights.

9 (1m 41s):
This care is actually already without these laws. Incredibly difficult to obtain even if you have a good job, even if you have good insurance. And I think that people skip over that and lawmakers certainly do. They make it sound like you just get it at your corner store.

8 (1m 55s):
I'm John Plin Hill host of The Weeds, a podcast all about the policies that shape our lives. New episodes drop every Wednesday. Find it wherever you get your podcasts

0 (2m 13s):
Today. Explained

10 (2m 22s):
Rama's Farm, Amy

0 (2m 24s):
Pearl,

10 (2m 24s):
What's going on?

0 (2m 25s):
Have I caught you at a good time?

10 (2m 28s):
I'm coming outta the shower. Oh

0 (2m 29s):
No, that's a terrible time.

10 (2m 31s):
No, it's good. This is the best time for me cause I have the babies and I have my dog. So let's do it. What's going on?

0 (2m 39s):
I called to ask you about a video game.

10 (2m 45s):
My video game,

0 (2m 46s):
Which is your video game. Tears

4 (2m 48s):
Of is of the kingdom.

10 (2m 58s):
You know, somebody said me the other day who lives in my building was like, oh, did you hear there's a new Zelda game coming out? I was like, what? Your brother? I'm like, did I hear? I'm like, I watch YouTube videos continuously when I'm not working. What

0 (3m 15s):
Are the YouTube videos you're watching?

10 (3m 16s):
Oh, just like breakdowns on gameplay. Like is link's hair longer? Like things about the theme music, all different music. What's coming back from the old game into the new game. But let me just say Sean, I have not been into a video game before. This is my first time. I know like I haven't played a video game. Like the last time I played a video game was was Centipede like in the back of the clothing store where I grew up.

0 (3m 44s):
What year was that?

10 (3m 46s):
1980. 1981. So I don't know anything about like video games. So if you wanna really talk about it, I'm not the best person, but I'm so excited.

0 (4m 3s):
I've known you for 10 years. No, I've known you for 11 years. Oh my God. And I've never known you to give a wit about any video game. How did you get into it? How did you become a gamer?

10 (4m 17s):
I'm a gamer. It's so cool. Gamer girl. Remember Isaac Jones?

0 (4m 22s):
I sure do. He was my former colleague. Your former colleague.

10 (4m 26s):
One Breath of the Wild came out. That was like right around the time that Isaac and I were first working together and he was like, oh you do play video games. You would love this video game. It's like you ride horses and you walk around make campfires and I was like, I don't play video games. I'm not interested. But like he talked about it endlessly. Then fast forward during the pandemic, I started hanging out with him weekly via Zoom to watch movies and just like have mental health time. And he again was going and he was like, I'm replaying Breath of the wild. You have to try it. Have you considered it? And so finally I broke down and walked into the GameStop on a strip mall like near Danbury.

10 (5m 10s):
I was like, I wanna play Breath of the Wild. Can you help me? What do I need to buy? I got a switch and I started playing and like the first weekend I remember telling my mom I was hanging out with, I was like, this was a mistake and a waste of money cuz I can't control this guy. I don't know what's happening. I don't know how to fight. I can't make the guy do what I want. And then just days later I was hooked. I would be like sitting in a Zoom meeting at my desk and I would like out of the corner of my eye, I would see my switch charging and I would just be like, oh Should I just go over there?

10 (5m 51s):
I mean it was insane. Like I would play on my switch till it ran out of juice and I would have to like go plug it in. I was so into it. I just like, I, I mean you can like take the guy's clothes off. So he's only wearing like kind of super underwear type stuff and he's barefoot and he, and he has a sword and then he rides a horse like that. And then like you can ride a bear. I just run around picking mushrooms, I pick mushrooms, I make dishes with it. I start fires sometimes I catch a horse, I ride it, I watch the sunset from a bridge. I found this one place where you can go and sit up on the top of the spill and just like every morning the dragon of that area comes out and flies within like one foot of your face and it's like the most beautiful creature.

10 (6m 40s):
It's really fun. It's really fun. Sean, you would like it actually you wouldn't. You like stupid games that are like beat the gold, get a soccer ball, make the truck go, right? That's your kinda game.

0 (6m 57s):
I, this isn't about me, this is about you. How much did it cost? How much did the switch and the game cost?

10 (7m 3s):
I bought a switch light, which is the cheaper one and I think it was like two 50. Wow. Or maybe, maybe just 200. But then the game was like $49 or $59 or something like that.

0 (7m 16s):
So this isn't like recommending a movie or a TV show to a friend where there's like zero barrier to entry. You just turn on your computer or go to a movie theater and spend like 10, $20. At most this was like, Hey Amy, you should check out this game and you had to drop Benjamins on this thing. But that wasn't a barrier to entry for you. You were, you were game to give it a shot.

10 (7m 38s):
When I decided I wanted to try it, I just decided I wanted to try it. I'm a grown up lady, I'm over 50 years old, I can spend 300 bucks. So I, that wasn't really the problem. The problem more was like, do I wanna spend 300 bucks on this or do I wanna go out to an excellent dinner in Manhattan? So it was more like that and I decided, I mean Isaac kept saying like, you will lose yourself in this world. I was like, how is that possible? I have no inkling that that could happen to me. And it did.

0 (8m 13s):
It's interesting hearing you talk about the world, you know, so much of what you're talking about is nature and I know you love nature and I know you experience nature all the time. And even in the pandemic you probably had access to nature knowing a bit about your life. So what was it about this virtual reality nature that you found so compelling?

10 (8m 37s):
I think just that in real nature, when you're like, oh I'm gonna go on a hike and, and have a campfire and do a weenie roast and, and then come home. It's like you start hiking out there, your shirt starts sticking to you cuz you're sweating, bugs are biting you. You'd go to start the fire. It doesn't start, then it gets all smoky. Then you drop your weenie, it gets like chips of wood on it, you eat it anyway, you're tired. You're like disgusting and smelly and it seems fun and theory, but in real life it's just kind of like, it's like too real.

10 (9m 18s):
So I was looking for something where I could lose track of time from the comfort of my couch Plus link, who's the guy that you become? He never talks. It's like a silent wordless existence, which I love. I just love beyond language. It's like where I wanna be. And also he's just like, he's so fit. He's like, he's, he's like starts climbing and he just like, I mean he's sweating and he's grunting, but he does it and he never really gets that tired and like even when he gets like pushed down by an enemy and he like rolls down a cliff and stuff, he always like takes him a second but then he gets back up and I mean I just like, as my body is getting older, I'm like, oh, it feels good to just be able to vault onto the back of a horse and just go, which I can't do in real life.

10 (10m 18s):
Hmm. I mean I know the point of the game is like something completely different and you have to like go in the shrines and, and solve all these puzzle and then like, you know, find your memories and, and go and fight Gannon and save Zelda and stuff. And I did it, I did it, I did all that. But that, that's not what's so great about the game. It's kind of like a daydream, you know, where you're, you're daydreaming about meeting up with your friend and daydreaming about seeing them again and and how great it's gonna be. And in that daydream, you know, the subway doesn't like let you off at Atlantic Terminal and you're bait and everybody goes to a new bar without you and they're like, oh hope you don't mind, we're meeting in Queens now.

10 (11m 8s):
You know, like it's a daydream. I mean yes there are blood moons where enemies come back to life and, and yes there's like bolans and whatever those things are that like come and attack you and stuff, but the game is built so that if you don't wanna fight something you can just sprint and you can get away from it. So you can go through the entire game and never have a battle.

3 (11m 30s):
Yeah.

10 (11m 31s):
Which is just like so fun. Are you thinking of getting it Sean? Absolutely

0 (11m 40s):
Not. But I'm so excited for you and my brother and everyone else out there who lives for this game.

10 (11m 51s):
I actually just got Monday and Tuesday off so I could just like continue playing.

0 (11m 58s):
Did you really take two days off so you could play this game? Yes,

10 (12m 1s):
And I, I did and I like and my boss asked me like, and I was like, my video game is coming out and I was like radio silence and I was like, I'm a loser, but a happy loser.

0 (12m 20s):
It was great to talk to you Amy.

10 (12m 22s):
All right, good to talk to you

3 (12m 37s):
Fox Creative.

Two Good (12m 39s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by Too Good, too Good cares about making great tasting lower sugar products that you can find in the yogurt aisle. They also care about combating food waste and food insecurity, which are bigger problems than you might realize. The US averages around 130 billion pounds of food waste per year. That's 30 to 40% of the total food supply that we produce in the country. My name is Caroline Huong and I am the communications and marketing manager with We Don't Waste in Denver. We recover good nutritious food from local businesses and we distribute it to nonprofits who have free food programs. Two good supports. Organizations like We Don't Waste to help keep healthy edible food out of landfills and reduce food insecurity. We don't waste this relationship with Too Good began back in 2020 and since then they've actually become the large supporter in our organization's history with too good support. We've been able to grow up to 20 million servings a year consistently. So every time you buy too good, you're not only doing good by you, but you're also helping to do good by others. To Learn more, visit two good yogurt.com/one cup Less Hunger

Canva (13m 53s):
Support for this show today comes from Canva. You know those presentations you see, maybe it's at work or in a TED Talk. What's your favorite Ted Talk? I like the guy who talks about tying his shoes. Anyway, those presentations that make you go, wow, that looks professional. Maybe they use a great font or a cohesive design language or some kind of special sauce that you can't even put your finger on. But Canva for Teams will help you put your finger on it. Canva is a design platform focused on helping users create all sorts of stunning content, access a wide variety of templates, fonts and colors for your presentations, social media posts and websites. They have a video editor with a bunch of filters who doesn't love filters. They've also got animations and transitions to help you bring your content to life. And Canva can also help you execute your social media plan. No matter how complex it is, collaborate with Canva for teams. Right now you get a free 45 day extended trial when you go to canva.me/explained Cava me slash explained for a free 45 day extended trial. Canva me slash explained.

14 (14m 59s):
Hey, listen

0 (15m 1s):
Today explained we are back with Mike Ma Hardy, who's a senior editor at Polygon. He's in charge of video game reviews at Polygon Mike. Earlier in the show we heard from my dear friend Amy Pearl, who was not a gamer until Breath of the Wild, which completely converted her. And since we've been talking about this show amongst ourselves as a team, I've heard this kind of story from lots of different people. Do you have any idea how many Amy Pearls are out there? How many people were brought into this game and this storyline through Breath of the Wild,

15 (15m 33s):
Breath of the Wild itself has sold about 30 million copies early in its lifespan. More people owned Breath of the Wild than owned the system you needed to play it on. Wow. So huh. Breath

0 (15m 45s):
Of the Wild

15 (15m 45s):
Was very much like one of these watershed games. Got

0 (15m 48s):
It. But if, if Breath of the Wild sold 30 million copies at how much does it cost ish?

15 (15m 53s):
So that was $60 60, so that's about like $60

0 (15m 56s):
0.8 billion

15 (15m 57s):
Just doing general multiplication. Obviously not everybody would've had to pay full price through various deals or trade-ins, et cetera, but here's the kingdom is $70 games have just gone up with inflation, but, but this

0 (16m 9s):
Is like Top Gun Maverick money if not more. This is as profitable as a huge blockbuster movie and certainly more profitable than like most popular TV shows. Could even be.

15 (16m 21s):
Yeah, for instance, the New Mario movie I think just crossed 500 million in box office sales. Granted that's only five weeks into its run. Breath of the Wild is six years old, but right now a sales of Breath of the Wild. If you were comparing 'em more than triples the Mario movie box office sales. Wow.

0 (16m 39s):
What was so groundbreaking about Breath of the Wild? What made this game such a game changer? That it made so much money for Nintendo?

15 (16m 47s):
It's the same thing that made the original legend of Zelda in the late eighties. So powerful. It was just about dropping into this world and exploring for its own sake and the developers were smart enough to reward that exploration, reward that curiosity. So you kept exploring because there was a bit of confidence that your curiosity would be met with something cool, something interesting rather The wild is actually much like that first game in that regard, except with Better Tech. The developers have way more experience in hindsight, you know, it was 2017 instead of 1986. So all these open world games that were coming out in the early odds and the 2000 tens were very much about like go knock these boxes on a checklist off Breath of the Wild was just much more organic in the way you're exploring and it really was just kind of like going back to the concept of the original Zelda, but with New Tech, better Hardware, more experience on the developer's part.

0 (17m 49s):
And is this sequel to Breath of the Wild Tears of the Kingdom which comes out today gonna be bigger?

15 (17m 55s):
It's hard to say they haven't released figures yet. Nintendo kind of usually doesn't do that. They're a bit more closeted for a while in terms of their financials. But it's one of those games where Nintendo released a teaser a few years ago and people were not just combing through this 30 seconds of a teaser to see what that character said. They were like, oh I heard this weird little sound snippet in the background. Some people were even playing them backwards almost like you would like an old school like Led Zeppelin record to hear these like demonic messages that Robert Plant might have been sending you.

0 (18m 29s):
Is there a chance you might remember that like Deuce Bigelow, European Gigo was famously nowhere near as good as the original. Is there a chance that tears of the Kingdom Disappoints fans of Breath of the Wild?

15 (18m 41s):
So the game came out today or last night, whatever you wanna say it. Maybe you went to a midnight release if you're listening, however, I actually have had it for like two weeks. You've had it for two weeks? Yeah. How do you do that? I was reviewing it for Polygon and I've had it for, played it for like about 70 hours. Wow. Still have not scratched the surface. It's actually not really one open world in tears of the kingdom. Like it wasn't Breath of the Wild or any number of other open world games. It's actually kind of three layer to top one another. There are these Sky Islands above high rule that they've been showing in these trailers and these gameplay demonstrations. However, there's also an entire subterranean map that is basically the size of high rule above it and that is much bigger than these Sky Islands.

15 (19m 27s):
So you're finding an item in the Sky Islands like a treasure map that actually leads you down to what they call the depths that subterranean map. But to explore the depths, you're also needing to gather certain items that can light up the darkness from this middle world, this high rule. So I think it actually might potentially turn some people away that really like Breath of the Wild specifically because compared to tears of the Kingdom, breath of the Wild was basically just like this overture, like this introduction just by how big it was cuz tears of the Kingdom even 70 hours in, I'm still like even right now while we're speaking, I'm thinking of things I haven't tried in terms of like how you can build these vehicles in this game. How you can fuse together different items to make new weapons.

15 (20m 7s):
It's, I think people might find it overwhelming, especially those people who, like we talked about, came in with Breath of the Wild because for as complicated as the things were under the surface, it's actually a pretty simple game to learn. This is more upfront you're learning these abilities that are basically trying to make you almost think like a game developer.

0 (20m 29s):
Okay. So if people aren't scared away by the complexity of this game, it stands to be just as huge, if not maybe even bigger than its predecessor. What would that mean for Nintendo and for the gaming industry?

15 (20m 45s):
So Breath of the Wild for Nintendo was their repudiation, so to speak. I think Open World Games, these actual maps you're dropped into to explore since the early aughts really open world games were kind of becoming stale. They're, you had games from publishers like Ubisoft in which you get dropped into this world and there are these icons all over the map. The UI was cluttered and crowded, had like six missions up on the side to go pursue basically just like you couldn't catch a break in terms of like just deciding where to go on your own Breath of the Wild came along as this kind of response to that. And since we've seen tons of developers chasing after breath of the Wilds design, Hmm. Eldon Ring, which released last year was Polygons Game of the Year was from software who's made Dark Souls bloodborne.

15 (21m 28s):
If you don't know those games, they're very, they don't care how difficult they are. They don't care whether it's gonna take some work on the player's part to figure out what's going on. They're just very confident and they don't clutter the ui. They're just, they're, they're like, Hey, go find this general boss and then see if you could beat them. And you know, we'll figure out where to go from there. But I think the games industry at large, I'm hoping at least as a fan of those games that I mentioned that kind of put the control in the player's hand. So I'm hoping more studios Chase after Tears of the Kingdom the way huge studios have chased after Breath of the wild. And Nintendo I think really needed this at this point in time. They are definitely lagging behind if you're like looking at the big companies, Microsoft with Xbox, Sony with PlayStation, even Valve with PCs and Steam Deck now, which is a handheld and it's awesome.

15 (22m 18s):
Nintendo is really lagging behind in terms of the actual technical side, you mean Breadth of the Wild was pushing the Nintendo switches hardware back in 2017. Tears of the Kingdom is no different. They really needed a big win on the creative side, on the software side because they just said recently, do not expect the switch to or switch Pro whatever happens to be in 2023. So it means a lot for Nintendo I think financially. Sure. But also just kind of in terms of continuing the relevance that new horizons and breadth of the wild established. I think it's a big deal for them.

0 (22m 51s):
You mentioned that Mario movie a little while ago. Yeah, hoo. And I wonder, you know, it feels like video games are kind of everywhere right now, not only on our platforms, but in the movie theater. H B O just had a very popular TV show, the Last of Us, based on a video game. It was wildly successful.

19 (23m 12s):
If you don't think there's hope for the world, why bother going on?

0 (23m 19s):
Is there something more pervasive about video games in our culture right now? Because I mean, we still had movies based on video games in the nineties and certainly after that, but there's certainly everywhere you look right now.

15 (23m 31s):
Yeah, I think it's less that like video games are having a moment right now, and this is kind of the result of a buildup. I, I hate to like attribute everything going on right now to like lockdown and covid, but the reality is that during lockdown people were getting into Animal Crossing, they were, it became less of this little hobby you do on the side alongside the TV shows you're watching alongside the movies that you're watching alongside the books you're reading became this cultural force that is just like this kind of binding agent in your social groups. I'm willing to bet most people listening play a game in some respect, whether it's Wordle in their family chat or it's Marvel Snap when they play on the subway.

0 (24m 8s):
The way you invest money using Robinhood or the way you look for your life partner on Tinder

15 (24m 13s):
Duolingo, the way you learn languages is extremely gamified. That has learned so much from video game UI and the way video games teach us and vice versa. I think in some way you are what we used to call a gamer. Like I think everybody is at this point. So I think the last of us being this tent pole on H B O and the Mario movie, which was a bit more based on nostalgia than actual, like trying to tell this like quality drama. I think both of those are kind of the result of video games being mainstream for a while and now creators in other disciplines are trying to, you know, actually bring that to the forefront for other audiences.

0 (24m 55s):
Other disciplines, as you generously called them, have always wanted to like co-opt profit off of anything that's popular, be it a Barbie movie or Super Mario Brothers or whatever it might be. But when you get back to like this game or it's predecessor breath of the Wild, it feels like for a lot of people it's about just escaping into a world and that's like a pretty pure thing that isn't really about corporate profits or intellectual property. It's just about spending some time in a world that's really satisfying.

15 (25m 28s):
Yeah, I mean one of the best selling games on Switch that released during lockdown was basically just about having a normal life

0 (25m 34s):
Animal

15 (25m 34s):
Crossing was just, you wake up, you tend your crops, maybe you harvest a few of them, go talk to your friend who happens to be the museum curator. And there was something really rewarding about having that normal life cycle and we were all just kind of consigned to our apartments. So I think people nowadays, more and more people just realize not every game is gonna be focused around combat. Some games just can be about this pure escapism. This pure discovery and tears of the Kingdom, to me is one of the sheerest demonstrations of what happens when developers just kind of embrace the fact that people want their curiosity to be rewarded. Yeah, it's, it's a powerful thing.

0 (26m 13s):
Mike Ma Hardy is a senior editor at Polygon. If you were excited about this game. Polygon is going wall to wall on it over@polygon.com. Thanks to Mike's colleagues, Nicole Carpenter and Christopher Plant for their help too. And Ode White, thanks Ode. Early in the show you heard from Amy Pearl. Amy doesn't presently have a podcast to plug, but she used to host one called 10 Things That Scare Me. I Loved it. Maybe You Will too. Our show today was produced by Amanda Lou Ellen. She had help from Matthew Collette and Laura Bullard and Paul Robert Moundy and Michael Rayfield. I'm Sean Ramas firm. This is today Explained.