0 (0s):
When Israel went to war with Hamas war, there immediately after erupted this conversation about what side everyone is on. It's maybe neither right nor useful, but it happened. What social media shows me a once young person of color and my co-host today, Halima s Shah, a still young person of color, is that many young people of color are siding with Palestinians. But why? Two things you hear Israelis are colonizers and Palestinians simply want their land. Decolonized. And also Palestinians are on our side, like during our various American racial uprisings and reckonings and officer involved shootings. I

1 (36s):
Remember there were Palestinians in Ferguson who were sharing their street battles with the police, that there were tactics and ways to protect yourself from tear gas and things like that. And honestly, I just saw the struggle as one and the same.

0 (53s):
On today explained why so much of the world seems to think the Palestinians struggle is also their struggle.

Vanta (60s):
Support for today's show comes from Vanta. If you're building a business, then achieving compliance with frameworks like SOC two and ISO 27 0 0 1 might help you win bigger deals, enter new markets, and deepen trust with customers. but it can also cost you time and money. Vanta wants you to know that it automates compliance and simplifies security. In fact, Vanta customers report saving up to 400 hours of work and 85% of associated costs. To. learn more about what this is, how Vanta works. and to claim a special offer, visit Vanta dot com slash explained. That's VANT a.com/ explained.

BetterHelp (1m 42s):
Support for today, explained comes from better help. The holidays can be a lot of fun, like you know, the parties and reconnecting with friends and family, but, but it's not for everyone. Some people don't like that stuff and, and the holidays could keep you from feeling those sad feelings or at least help you through a tough time. If you're looking for convenient, affordable online therapy, you might wanna try better help. You can find your bright spot this season with Better Help. Visit better help.com/explain today to get 10% off your first month. That's better. hlp.com/explained

0 (2m 12s):
It is today explained. I'm Noel King.

3 (2m 14s):
And I'm Halima s Shah. And

0 (2m 16s):
Right at the beginning of the war between Israel and Hamas war, I saw something on Twitter that had me rabbit holing. It was this person talking about how they were seeing people at a bodega, not Palestinians, but Egyptians and Jamaicans, if I'm remembering right, talking about Palestine as a colonial issue or struggle. And Halima, I told you about this and you said,

3 (2m 37s):
I was like, are we about to talk about colonialism on this show?

0 (2m 41s):
Yes, we are. And so you went into the field and where'd you go? So I went

3 (2m 45s):
To this meeting that was held in Chicago where people were reading the works of Kasan Kani, a late Palestinian author who was a Marxist and a member of the Palestinian Resistance.

1 (2m 59s):
Thank y'all for turning out tonight. We know the importance of political education. We know that there are many struggles that people are fighting ardently for and that they're fighting against the things like Zionism imperialism and racism.

3 (3m 15s):
So this event was held by the party for Socialism and Liberation, a group that is very critical of Israel and has organized a number of pro-Palestinian protests around the country. But what was interesting was that this meeting was happening in Little Village, which is a mostly Mexican working class neighborhood in Chicago.

0 (3m 37s):
Okay. So again, people are talking about Palestine, but they're not Palestinians. What did these people tell you about why they were there?

3 (3m 43s):
Well, there were two big things. One was racism. The US struggles with it. And one person I spoke to, her name was Ellie Gallegos. She is actually the daughter of Mexican immigrants. They

4 (3m 56s):
Use very dehumanizing language towards Palestinians like that. They're human animals. And I think that the, the correlation to that is like how a lot of people use race here in, in Chicago, in the United States to justify mistreatment of Mexicans.

0 (4m 16s):
Okay. So you heard about racism. Did you also hear about the C word colonization?

3 (4m 21s):
Absolutely. I mean, colonization was a big theme in this room. A lot of people felt that the colonized people of the world are all, you know, in a common struggle. One person I spoke to Nino Brown, his family is from Jamaica, which Like a lot of places in the world was colonized by the British.

1 (4m 38s):
They say that the, the Sun never sat on the English empire because it was so large and there's just deliberate creation of racial stratification systems and privileging one section of a population over another. Those are some of the main parallels I saw while, while, all while describing the native population as savages backwards. So the same way that they described African Jamaicans and the Rastafari and maroon societies as backwards, crazy heathens. That's exactly how they describe Palestinians.

0 (5m 12s):
Okay. So the next step was to ask what is the bigger framework for understanding this as a colonial scenario? We called Columbia University Professor Rashid Kdi, a distinguished Palestinian historian. And first we learned that he's seen the same dynamic we've been observing.

5 (5m 31s):
I've heard it from African Americans, I've heard it from people from the Caribbean, I've heard it from people from formerly colonized places like India, parts of Africa. I've heard it from Irish people. Anybody who lived under the boot of colonialism, whether British or French or otherwise, understands somehow that there's a similarity between what their people endured and what the Palestinians have gone through.

0 (6m 1s):
Haladi is a frequent guest on NPR and an op-ed writer for the New York Times. He wrote a book that both Halima and I read. It's called The 100 Years War on Palestine, A history of settler Colonialism and Resistance. Now, the word colonialism is really contested and to put it in your book title seems significant. So I asked him why is he so confident that that's what this is? And he began with what he identifies as the start of today's current conflict.

5 (6m 30s):
It really starts with the arrival of the British in 1917 and the imposition of British colonial rule under the veil of something called a League of Nations mandate. but it was basically ruled by the British, and the British came to install what they called the a Jewish National Home.

6 (6m 46s):
The Zionist movement aims to create for the Jewish people a home in Palestine secured by public law,

5 (6m 53s):
By law. And that in turn involved a settler colonial project. Zionism, of course, is, has a national aspect, but as early Zionists all understood and accepted, and were not ashamed of it was a colonial project.

6 (7m 8s):
At the second Congress, Hutzel establishes the Jewish colonial trust, which was to be the financial instrument of the Zionist organization.

5 (7m 16s):
They saw it that way. It was that they saw that they were European settlers with a claim in their eyes to the land, but who understood they were coming to a non-European land to colonize it. And they talked about that openly. You had something called the Jewish Colonization Agency that's not some anti-Semitic slur. That's what they called themselves.

0 (7m 35s):
It was the Jewish Colonization Association, In fact.

5 (7m 39s):
So in both of these respects, it was, and I would argue still is a colonial struggle or an anti-colonial struggle.

8 (7m 50s):
The main case of the Arabs is against the British government's policy in Palestine, a policy which if continued, will surely have as a result the replacement of the Arabs by the Jews.

0 (8m 6s):
Okay, so there was no hesitation about using the word colonialism at the time? It wasn't, it wasn't debated.

5 (8m 14s):
No. No, it was not. I mean, you have to understand, before World War ii, before the era of decolonization, colonialism was in good odor with Europeans, with, you know, the good and the great as far as they were concerned, it was a good thing. They were civilizing, the natives and so forth. If, you read the way in which the League of Nations described giving European countries mandates. They were uplifting these people. So colonialism was seen as a good thing until World War II and everything is turned upside down. And at that point, the Zionist movement re baptizes itself as an anti-colonial movement because at that point they were on bad terms with the British.

0 (8m 55s):
So Israel comes into existence with the help of the British. What was the British plan for that region? What were the borders supposed to look like and who was supposed to be able to live there?

5 (9m 6s):
Well, the British, the British, before they decided to take Zionism under their wing with the Balfour Declaration in 1917, for more than a decade, had decided for strategic reasons that they must control Palestine. They needed it to defend the eastern frontiers of Egypt. They needed it because it constituted the, the, the Mediterranean terminus of the shortest land route between the Mediterranean and the Gulf. So the British wanted Palestine for strategic reasons.

0 (9m 39s):
At some point, they had a plan for both Palestinians and Israelis to live there. Right? Or for, for Arabs and Jews to live there. Right. How did the British wanna partition the land between these two groups?

5 (9m 53s):
The British put forward a plan in 1937, the Peel partition plan, which would've created a small Jewish state, which would've expelled the large number of Palestinians who lived there under the Orwellian rubric of transfer and would've kept part of Palestine for the British as a British possession later on the United Nations in 1947, the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 1 8 1 on November 29th, 1947 voted for partition of Palestine into a larger Jewish state and a smaller Arab state. Even though Arabs owned most of the land, o over 80% of it, actually over 90% of it,

9 (10m 33s):
The Jewish state will include the ports of Heifer and Tel Aviv and the whole of the Niev Valley. The Arab will occupy the fertile eastern part, Jerusalem will come under United Nations trusteeship.

5 (10m 44s):
And even though Arabs constituted a two thirds majority of the country, more than 56% of it was to be given to the JA Jewish state, and the rest was to be given to an Arab state. And that was a un plan, not a British plan.

0 (10m 59s):
What do you say to people who insist that Jewish people have a historical tie to this land? Their, their origins are there and thus they can't be considered colonists?

5 (11m 11s):
Well, they, they're right that there's a connection between Judaism and the land of Israel. That's obvious. Everybody understands that Muslims, Christians and Jews understand that it's in the Quran, it's in the Bible. Nobody can dispute that the Jewish religion is rooted in this part of the world in Palestine. The question is, who are these people who are coming and on what basis are they coming? Well, they're coming as part of a national movement and people who say, well, it can't be settler colonialism because it's a national movement. Well, it can be both. I mean, we live in a settler colonial reality in the United States, which is also a national reality. So is Canada, so is New Zealand, so is Australia.

5 (11m 50s):
That's not so hard to understand. You can walk in chew gum at the same time. And the Zionist movement was both, it was a settler colonial movement to bring persecuted Jews from Europe to Palestine where they would establish a Jewish majority state.

7 (12m 9s):
You

5 (12m 10s):
Remove the existing population to bring in a new population that's settler colonialism. And the fact that there is an ancient connection between the Jewish religion and the land of Israel or, or Palestine, whatever you choose to call it, there's that, there's no contradiction between those three ideas. Does that mean that the people who arrive from Eastern Europe are indigenous to the land? No, they're not indigenous to land. Their religion comes from there maybe, or maybe not their ancestors came from there. But that's a question that doesn't give you a a 20th century, right? That's a biblical land deeded that nobody believes except people who are, you know, religious and that that in modern international law that just doesn't hold

0 (12m 58s):
Professor Rashid, Hodi Coming up the developing world, enters the chat.

Shopify (13m 8s):
Support for today, explain comes from Shopify. Some people spend years developing the perfect idea for a business. And then sometimes it feels like others receive market ready concepts seemingly from the universe. Whatever it is. If, you want to get started selling anything. You need a way to connect your brilliant idea with the people who get it. And guess who wants to help Shopify. They're a global e-commerce platform that can help you sell at every stage of your business. Shopify powers 10% of all e-commerce in the United States according to Shopify, including according to Shopify global brands like Allbirds, Roth's, Brooklinen plus millions of other entrepreneurs of every size across 175 countries according to Shopify. You can sign up for a $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/explained all lowercase. Go to shopify.com/explained Now to grow your business, no matter what stage you're in, shopify.com/ explained

Noom (14m 16s):
Support for today, explained comes from noom. There is a whole big weight loss. Industry can be hard to figure out what works for you. Noom wants to tell you a bit about noom. Noom uses science and personalization to try to help you manage your weight over the long term. Noom says that their psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors and you can decide how Noom fits into your life and not the other way around. Noom offered a sample of 4,272 numer and 98% of them said Noom helped them change their habits and behaviors for good. Sarah Frank is my colleague here at Vox who works on the business side of things. She had a chance to try out Noom and tell us how it went. There were days where I was overeating based on my goal and days where I was undereating and Noom had a very clever way of also matching my mood to those days. So I could actually see after about a week that I tend to eat less on days that I'm a little anxious or stressed and days that I'm more relaxed, I'm eating more and I know some people's habits are the opposite of that. You can sign up for a trial today@noom.com, that's NOO m.com to sign up for a trial. Today

11 (15m 29s):
Everyone knows that chocolate is a great part of a happy diet, but what about white chocolate? Is it even chocolate?

0 (15m 35s):
Everyone also knows that If, you eat asparagus, your pee stinks. Except that apparently that doesn't happen to everyone.

11 (15m 42s):
These are the types of questions that are setting the internet on fire. Wait,

0 (15m 46s):
Speaking of fire, here's another question. Why is the burn from wasabi so different from a chili burn? What's going on there?

11 (15m 53s):
We at Gastropod have the answers to all these and more in our latest episode.

0 (15m 58s):
It's a quick fire deep dive into the myths, the science, the history, and the controversy surrounding foods we know and love, including everyone's favorite chocolate sprinkles,

11 (16m 8s):
Which in some parts of the country strangely, are called Jimmy's. Why is that And it racist.

0 (16m 14s):
We've got the answers. So find gastropod wherever you get your podcasts and subscribe. We are back with Professor Rashid hol of Columbia University. So professor, when Israel became a country in 1948, how did the rest of the world react? And here I want us to think not just about the United States and Britain, but also about what we now call the global south or the third world, the developing world.

5 (16m 43s):
In 1948, most of the developing world had not yet been decolonized. India had, Pakistan had a few countries had been liberated from colonialism. But most of the, what we call now the global south was still subject either to direct colonial rule by European powers or was just in the process of liberating itself. You look at Indonesia, you look at China, you look at countries that were nominally independent or not really yet independent. And the global south didn't have the self-expression that it came to have By the 1960s when the deco, the process of decolonization had largely been been completed. How did the world look at this?

5 (17m 23s):
Well, the first thing is European countries and the United States looked at it almost entirely in terms of the Holocaust for which they bore a great deal of guilt. Since those countries had refused to take in people who could have been saved before World War ii, when the Nazis would've let people go, had anyone opened the doors, which the United States refused to do, which Britain refused to do, which most countries in the world callously and consciously refused to do so, they had, they bore an enormous share of guilt just correctly. They should have been guilty. And I think that that's one of the elements that drove the desire to support the Zionist project, to create a, a, a Jewish state in the majority Arab country and give most of it under the partition plan of 1947 to this Jewish minority

12 (18m 11s):
As Germany and other nations increase their persecution, treat them as pars and outcasts, beat them down and trample on them. The Jews are turning more and more to their promised land to the land, which they were told once would be flowing with milk and honey more

0 (18m 25s):
And more. Alright, so the process of decolonization, we have India gaining independence from Britain 1947, and then from 1947 onward, the dominoes start to fall. The de colonialization movement gain steam. And and with what we have today, did, did the Palestinian people see themselves as part of a larger decolonial push? Were they thinking of themselves in those terms? Like Algeria was like, get, get the French out?

5 (18m 53s):
Absolutely they did in the, in the period before 1948. I mean, you see demands by Palestinian congresses, by Palestinian leaders, by Palestinian delegations to London saying, we are entitled to self-determination under the covenant of the League of Nations. We are a provisionally independent nation and we should get our independence. We're the overwhelming majority in this country. It's our country. And the British and the League of Nations consistently refuse to do that. This

8 (19m 21s):
Policy is not only contrary to the pledge given by his Britannic magistrates government to the late King Hussein in the year 1915 for the establishment of a completely independent state, but is also not in accordance with the four points of President Wilson's 14 points calling for the self-determination of all people.

0 (19m 49s):
In the case of many of the countries in the developing world, Algeria, India, Kenya, the colonists largely left in the United States. Of course that did not happen. Right? We're all here. Right. What do you think needs to happen for Palestinians and Israelis? Do Israelis need to leave?

5 (20m 7s):
No, absolutely not. Two things have to be said. The first is that Zionism is a national movement and Like a at the same time as it wasn't, as a colonial settler project and as in many other colonial settler settings, it is created in a nation state or in a nation or people, however you wanna put it. A and that is, that is now a fact. Those are people who now are people that now have not just a presence, but certain rights. Now that's not entirely unprecedented in the history of settler colonial projects. You look at South Africa or you look at Ireland, or you look at Kenya or you look at what is now Zimbabwe and a very large proportion of the populations that were settled there by colonial powers, whether the Dutch and the British in South Africa or or the, or the British in in Ireland are part of those populations.

5 (20m 59s):
They have rights there. They should live there. They have every right to live there. Now how the relationship between them is to be worked out, that's a question that, you know, it's not gonna be easy to solve necessarily. But certainly the idea of pushing them out, which many Palestinians originally had, by the way, it's part of the original PLO charter later amended. That idea is absolutely un unacceptable and unfeasible.

0 (21m 26s):
I really wanted to do this episode after I saw a tweet by a young person in which she was talking about Egyptians at a bodega telling Jamaicans about how Palestine was a colonial issue. And I said, wow, that's really something right there that kind of sums something up that I can't really put my finger on. You said you've been seeing this dynamic for a long time. You also work on a college campus. Do you feel like you're seeing it more since October 7th?

5 (21m 56s):
It's not new since October 7th. I mean, If, you look back at things like the vote on divestment from companies that support the Israeli occupation at Columbia and Barnard four or five years ago, you already had that dynamic. I mean, the overwhelming vote in favor did not, I mean, the number of Arab or Palestinian or Muslim students is minuscule. The people who voted for that, that measure were by and large members of minority or, or members of the American white American majority, including a very, very large number of Jewish students. So I've seen, I mean we've seen that over several years at least, but it is actually not, not new on, on this campus.

5 (22m 36s):
And I think on most other campuses, and I would argue in society as a whole, I mean, you look at black pastors put a, a full page ad in the New York Times calling for a ceasefire. And I think they represent their, their congregations in that. And I would argue that's true across not just many minorities, but a large part also of, you know, the majorities in this country. Polling certainly indicates that among Democrats, among regular voters,

0 (23m 3s):
I have a lot of faith in those black pastors that they know what they're talking about, they know of which they speak. But there's part of this dynamic that's attracted some criticism And. it is that young people who seem to not really understand very much about the Israel Palestine conflict are talking about it in terms that make sense to them as Americans. So Israelis are white and Palestinians are POC and therefore Israelis are racist colonizers. And I wonder, I wonder if painting this in terms that makes sense to Americans is perhaps less useful because it doesn't really get at what's happening.

5 (23m 44s):
I was on a, on a platform with Esei Coates who had recently been to Palestine and he said, what I saw there reminded me of Jim Crow.

13 (23m 56s):
I can remember walking down streets with a Palestinian guide, and we would get to certain streets and he would say, I can't walk down this street with you, you can walk. I cannot because I'm Palestinian. And I thought, I, I know what that is.

5 (24m 12s):
I don't think that what we have in Palestine is exactly Jim Crow. There are elements of segregation. I mean, housing in its side, Israel is completely segregated. Jews and Arabs don't live together except in a small number of communities. Ed education is segregated. So there are parallels to Jim Crow, but that's how he interpreted it. But I I and I, and I I should say students are students and other course, they're still studying, they're still learning. They are young people and I think we should cut them a great deal of slack. Some of what they say may be, you know, not fully formed ideas or oversimplified ideas. But I actually think that there is a grain of truth in all of these comparisons.

5 (24m 55s):
I mean, to segregation, to, to the, the disenfranchisement of black people. I mean, Palestinians, 5 million Palestinians have lived for 56 years under the Jack Boot of an Israeli military occupation with no rights and no vote in, in, in terms of all the decisions that really matter. And that's not Jim Crow. And it's not exactly segregation, but there's a parallel there. And if a, if a black person sees it, I'm not gonna tell him no, he or she is actually right in certain respects. Similarly, if a Jamaican says, well the Britts did this to us, or an Irish person says, the Britts did this to us, I'm not gonna say no because I actually know, as the Irish person does, that Balfour is known as bloody Balfour in Ireland because of what he did, you know, in the 1880s, long before he became foreign secretary and issued the Balfour Declaration.

5 (25m 42s):
So there are actually parallels there. You know, the United States likes to think of itself as the international community. And, it likes to think of it itself with its few European allies and a couple of other white settler the states like Canada and Australia as the world. Well actually the world is not the United States and Western Europe. The world is Indonesia the largest Muslim country in the world. The world is China, the world is India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Brazil. That's the world. That's the world's population. And most of those people see this conflict in more or less the way that Palestinians do with obviously with differences and you know, with subtleties and so forth.

5 (26m 28s):
So In fact, I take a great deal of encouragement from that. Israel has the support of the undying support of the United States, Britain and a couple of other countries. I don't see that changing in the short run, though I think peoples in those countries are changing. Their political leadership is not. But people, ordinary people, I think are beginning to change. And I take it a great deal of encouragement from that.

0 (27m 3s):
Rashid Hodi, he's a professor at Columbia University and author of the 100 Years War on Palestine. Today's episode was produced and reported by Halima Shaw and edited by Matthew Collette. Laura Bullard and Serena Solin are our fact checkers. And Patrick Boyd is our engineer. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.