0 (1s):
Support for the show. Date comes from NerdWallet smart money podcast. Once again, you know that panic you feel when you think about your finances. Well, if you listen to this podcast, you might not feel quite so panicked. You might even feel prepared every week that our hosts invite experts from their team of finance geniuses, to answer listeners' money questions, whether you're a finance pro, a finance bro, a finance amateur, or whatever, you might be NerdWallet, smart money podcast is worth checking out and it's available now, wherever you listen.

2 (36s):
Nice. Try his back for a second season. And this time asking how much self-improvement can we expect to buy in a box I'm Avery Truffleman and from mattresses to be days to crockpots join us. As we explore the history science and cultural impact behind the lifestyle technology that surrounds us for decades, Americans have constantly been sold new versions of the same products that have been around a long time. And nice try is a podcast about humanity's attempts at perfection. Listen to nice try on apple, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (1m 44s):
Netflix is hottest. Show is squiggle. It's got everything pink stormtroopers, hundreds of people in matching tracksuits, honeycomb shape cutting, and a giant animatronic robot girl who will have you shot if you move out of turn, oh, and this Korean drama just became the biggest series launch in the history of the platform.

3 (2m 4s):
It is about a group of heavily indebted, south Koreans who are sort of tricked into participating into this survival game, where they show up and they're told it's, you know, they are going to have a chance to win money. And it's going to be a series of challenges.

4 (2m 22s):
We'll be playing red light green

3 (2m 24s):
Light, but at the start of the first challenge, more than half of them get killed,

4 (2m 38s):
3 24 eliminated.

3 (2m 45s):
And then they briefly decide to leave this game because they are scared out of their minds. But then upon going back to their own lives, ultimately decide that the trying to compete and win money is better than the sad state of their lives. Come on, let's finish.

5 (3m 5s):
I'd rather stay and keep on trying it here and go back to the bullshit out there.

3 (3m 12s):
It is very much about capitalism class inequality, and that is a recurring theme. Not only initially, but I think in a lot of the entertainment that's, it's very popular right now.

0 (3m 26s):
Lucas Shaw has been reporting on squint game for Bloomberg.

3 (3m 29s):
So squid game has had the most successful debut in the history of Netflix. They released a stat on Tuesday thing that 111 million people had watched the show. And I think the first 25 days for context, the most popular show before that was my,

6 (3m 46s):
My name is lady and whistled down. You do not know me, but I know

3 (3m 51s):
Which had 82 million people. So this is the most popular debut in Netflix history, by like an order of magnitude. And

0 (3m 58s):
Needless to say, no one saw this coming.

3 (3m 60s):
Nobody saw it coming because one has never been a show. I think that's reached that many people that quickly in the world before. And certainly there's never been a show from South Korea that reached close to that many people. I like to think that a lot of the Netflix shows are sort of accidental successes. Many of the most popular ones have caught the company by surprise. But this one is a whole other level. You know, Netflix tends to not invest a lot or sort of push its hits until after they come out. It's very different from how Hollywood traditionally markets it, where they sort of pick their hits in advance and they spend a ton of money to market it, to make it a hit. Netflix tends to let the people decide what's popular. And then when something is popular, they sort of pour gasoline all over it.

3 (4m 40s):
And that's definitely what's happened in the case of squid game where, you know, within a week or two of it being released, all of a sudden they're selling spree game t-shirts and trying to figure out a squid game, Halloween costumes, what are

0 (4m 51s):
The squid game? Halloween costumes,

3 (4m 53s):
To be honest, I haven't seen them yet, but I have to imagine they are coming. Anyone who's seen the show knows that there's these characters in it who are dressed in like red jumpsuits with masks. That seems like bound to be some kind of Halloween costume.

0 (5m 7s):
Oh, a bunch of people this Halloween season, we'll be buying costumes to celebrate a show about the perils of gap.

3 (5m 14s):
I think that's the, that's the hope, right? I mean, Netflix wants to set that up. Netflix has made a major investment in trying to figure out consumer products and merchandise, but if it doesn't happen, I still think it's a missed opportunity. Perfect.

0 (5m 27s):
How did a Korean scifi show become the biggest show in the world? In like a couple of weeks,

3 (5m 34s):
It speaks to the biggest impact that Netflix has had on pop culture all around the world, which is, you know, previously you'd have a show that got really popular in the U S or for like MCIs most popular show in the U S what makes it

7 (5m 50s):
And CIS the number one show on television. I haven't list if you're interested

3 (5m 55s):
Over the course of a couple of years, it become popular in France and Germany and some other places, but it had to be released out of slowly and systematically or the opposite of it. You'd have a show that's really popular in Korea or Japan. And then what would probably happen is someone in the U S would decide to make an English language version of that show. And so people in the U S would never even see that that's like this flip this whole dynamic on its head, where it will take shows from all over the world and release them all over the world at once. So I think that's the most basic shift. And really since 20 14, 20 15, Netflix has been investing more and more in original programs from outside the U S original programs in foreign languages. It really started with shows in Spanish, from Mexico and in Portuguese from Brazil, it's made shows in France and Germany.

3 (6m 41s):
And in the past few years, it started to make more from places like India and Korea and Japan, because, you know, Netflix is trying to make shows that are popular in potential areas of growth, right? And most of its growth in recent years has been outside of the U S one by-product of that is that because it still has such a huge audience in the U S and Europe. It has tried to make it so that people in those markets want to watch all these shows it's making from other countries where they previously hadn't. And that's the kind of the foundational layer for this. We've seen, especially over the past couple of years, a growing number of international hits below.

8 (7m 15s):
And that's how I started calling myself Tokyo, the one looking at my ass Berlin, a wanted man all over the world,

3 (7m 23s):
Positive propel money, heist from span, I think was the first truly massive hit. But then just earlier this year, we had lupus, which was the show from France, which had the second biggest debut of any show in Netflix history. You know, the handcuff trick.

8 (7m 37s):
Well now, you know, God

3 (7m 42s):
It's finished now. Third because of what's a good game has done in terms of its specific appeal and sort of how that happened. The show exploded, I'd say three or four days after it was released. It wasn't instantaneous, but as it started to grow in popularity in Korea and across Asia, and then eventually in the U S it just had this snowball effect, which often happens with Netflix where, you know, people start talking about it and because it's available everywhere. And because everyone seems to have Netflix, it just goes crazy viral. And something goes from being watched by a small subset of people to being watched by everyone in a way that, that really few other TV networks can make happen. And that's to say, even if the show is in a foreign language.

3 (8m 23s):
Yeah. Well, there's, there's two dynamics to that. You know, I think that because Netflix and YouTube and other global services have familiarized, more people with watching and listening to things in other languages, you know, there are more people doing that in general, you know, using subtitles for example, but Netflix has also invested a lot of money in, in dubbing whereby you have voice actors or rerecord what's happening in different languages. And so I, I don't, I haven't seen any data released by Netflix, but I would imagine that there are a lot of people who are watching squid game in English and it's dubbed for them or in whatever the language is in their local country. Because in Europe, for example, dumping has always been more popular.

3 (9m 5s):
And so I would imagine that there are a bunch of people in England, France, Spain watching it in their native tongue. It's safe to assume that, you know, 80 to 90% of the people are watching it dubbed the U S has always been more of a subtitle market. I think that balance has begun to shift, but the majority of people here tend to still watch the subtitles.

0 (9m 23s):
Subtitles. How about you?

3 (9m 25s):
I have gone subtitles for the first couple of episodes, but if I'm watching a foreign language show at the end of a long work day, and my brain is tired, I am not above dubbing

0 (9m 34s):
Fair. Obviously this is not the only Korean culture that's sort of struck gold worldwide. Yeah.

3 (9m 42s):
I mean, it's really remarkable to watch the impact that Korean entertainment has had on a global level over the last decade. Something that, that they started investing in really in the mid nineties, something called the Hallyu, which I'm sure someone who actually speaks Korean would tell me, I just butchered that, but this kind of Korean wave, where there are a bunch of media companies specifically then kind of music management companies that tried to develop these pop acts that would travel the world. I think now most people are familiar at the very least with BTS

9 (10m 14s):
Like criminal undercover Dawn pap trouble breaking in the Yamaha

3 (10m 21s):
K-pop has become a long with, I'd say reggaeton, one of the two big global genres that has spread everywhere. And then Korean TV has taken a little bit longer, but it is now probably the most popular genre across a lot of Southeast Asia, a lot of east Asia, when you have streaming services going into those countries and trying to sign up customers, they're often relying on licensing Korean TV or commissioning original K dramas, even in the U S we had sort of a niche service called drama fever. That's that caters to people who love that, but this is the first Korean TV show. I would say to break out in a big way in the west.

10 (10m 59s):
I know how to throw net pressure. <inaudible>

0 (11m 6s):
Do we think that the immense success of squid game will, will change how entertainment companies strategize the way they think about foreign stuff, or has that changed already taken place?

3 (11m 19s):
Changes is in process. I would say, you know, Netflix has been far and away the most aggressive company at investing in programming. In other languages, you look at some of the other global streaming services, whether it's Disney plus or HBO, max, apple TV, plus, they're all planning to do it or are doing it, but on a smaller scale, partially because their audience is still more concentrated in the U S and Western Europe, but it is inevitable over time that all of these companies are going to be trying to find big hits in Korea, both because Korea is such a strong market for their streaming services. And because those Korean programs will help them unlock customers across a lot of the world, How much remains to be seen.

3 (12m 4s):
But we're going to see, you know, millions of dollars flow from American companies into Korea to try to find the next squid game.

0 (12m 12s):
Cool. I will watch it with subtitles.

3 (12m 17s):
You know, I'll watch it. However, my brain decided that best for me, that day

0 (12m 46s):
Support for the show rate comes from imperfect foods. You know, when it's like snowing in the winter and you look up at the sky and you Marvel at how just every last snowflake is a little different imperfect foods is trying to do that. But with food, they want to bring you groceries that embrace fruits and veggies of every shape, size, and thigh, even, you know, because once you chop it all up and throw it in your, your salad or your pasta or your Curry or whatever the heck it is, you're, you're making your goulash. It doesn't really matter what that vegetable or fruit looked like. And that's their whole point. They're going to bring you all the food in an effort to keep groceries and food buying more sustainable and to reduce waste right now in perfect foods.

0 (13m 30s):
For a limited time is going to give you 20% off plus free shipping on your first order. When you go to imperfect foods.com and use explained 20 to sign up, that is 20% off plus free shipping@imperfectfoods.com with the offer code explained 20

2 (13m 50s):
Nice try his back for a second season. And this time asking how much self-improvement can we expect to buy in a box I'm Avery Truffleman and from mattresses to be days to crockpots join us. As we explore the history science and cultural impact behind the lifestyle technology that surrounds us, we are

11 (14m 10s):
Doing something to be slow and deliberate about. We need to do more than one thing at the same time

2 (14m 15s):
For decades, Americans have constantly been sold new versions of the same products that have been around a long time, sometimes centuries. And nice try is a podcast about humanity's attempts at perfection. Listen to nice try on apple, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (14m 50s):
Young. Kim is a professor of east Asian studies at the university of California, Irvine

12 (14m 56s):
Author of a hegemonic mimicry Korean popular culture, the 21st century. And he did not,

0 (15m 2s):
I have the same initial reaction. A lot of people around the world are having to squiggle.

12 (15m 7s):
I'm doing okay. And I, the creator of the show, I mean, we're same age. And so these are the same type of games that I used to play when I was in Korea. So this is kind of in the style brick home. And that's why I was really, really frustrated and naturally like devastated. How could you turn this to, you know, to the sweet memories, right of mine and nostalgic dreams that I had of my Homeland into this bloody right ruthless violin merciless thing. That's not what the game was about, but by the time

0 (15m 41s):
We finished the series, he had decided there was more to it than blood and gore.

12 (15m 46s):
It's set against the background of, of the harsh realities of liberal capitalism. And that's one of the, I think, appealing draw to the show that it talks about harsh realities before he goes on to this kind of, you know, happy, creepy kinds of dystopian, you know, space of nine. And this is

0 (16m 9s):
After like the last Korean thing that everyone watched parasite was also about gross income inequality in South Korea, the haves and the have-nots

13 (16m 20s):
<inaudible>, it's a story about family, oh, the son goes into a rich house as a tutor. And the story unfolds from there. It's just a funny insecurity

12 (16m 31s):
Movie,

0 (16m 32s):
Just a dominant theme and a lot of Korean popular culture, or just the stuff that's making it over to north America and the rest of the west.

12 (16m 40s):
I think Korean cinema has a tradition of actually being socially engaged over the last, you know, 20, 30 years Korean society after it had opened up, you Moxie after 1980s have really specialized in making, you know, socially engaged films. Now those of you actually know Korea from K drama and K-pop would hardly think and conceptualize it. Well, you know, that's not the Korea I know in popular culture, but Korean cinema, where squeaky also comes from, it's more of a cinema tradition that actually has influenced the making of good game rather than Korean television. It's definitely been more socially committed kind of content that is specialized over the last 20, 30 years

0 (17m 26s):
For people who aren't familiar with the realities on the ground in South Korea, what's the economic inequality like there. How bad is it? I'm sure Americans listening to this are pretty familiar with how bad it is here.

12 (17m 39s):
It wasn't as bad. Remember Korea had sunk into world's worst poverty after the Korean war in the 1950s and sixties, it did rebound seventies and eighties, and that created the, one of the world's most famous, you know, economic miracle story

14 (17m 58s):
In order to spur economic growth. The military regime founded the economic planning board, giving it unprecedented powers for planning, allocating the budget and for attracting foreign capital.

12 (18m 10s):
Now, if you look at just a pure GDP numbers and, you know, the export capital, you know, Korea is right up there in almost every economic index, but the other side of the coin is it has really over the last 20 years, especially after the, what it's called the IMF crisis of 1997, when the IMF had to bail Korean economy

15 (18m 33s):
Hit hard by the Asian financial crisis south Korea's government asked the IMF for a $58 billion bailout.

12 (18m 41s):
It really did push out. I think the backbone of a Korean economy and social strata, this middle-class

15 (18m 48s):
Country wasted, no time getting to work on paying it back. Millions donated precious family heirlooms to be melted into

12 (18m 57s):
It has been nonstop ever since. And this one of the countries that yes, you have high economic markers, but, you know, underneath it all is the world's suicide rate. Top 10, unfortunately the worlds lowest fertility rate, you know, all of those things add up, you know, making it really grim and bleak for many of the young peoples out there.

0 (19m 32s):
Is there something specific to Korean culture that makes, I don't know, like financial struggle, something that might lead to suicidal ideation that

12 (19m 43s):
Is a synonymous with shame. And sure. I think there is family shame and many Asian countries, which tend to be more, you know, community based and family based that may be a individual based in Western countries, but the new confusion ideas still holds very true in Korea. And as you have seen also in a squid game, that's where it begins, right. You know, Keon, the protagonist, he steals his from his, you know, septuagenarian mother

16 (20m 16s):
Pin number changed on you. Huh? Guess her mother finally abandoned you.

12 (20m 23s):
How creepy is that? Right? And so that pressure, I think is probably more acutely felt that sense of, again, a guilt and shame that arises out of being burdened with debt. Do

0 (20m 37s):
These profound works of, of culture of entertainment have moved the needle and made it okay to be in this struggle for Koreans like, like parasite or squid game. It does

12 (20m 47s):
Reflect, present, you know, society, mood and the sediments, right. And these words actually do resonate with many, many Koreans out there who feel just as baffled and frustrated as you know, I mean, Q and does the main protagonist as well as the Kim family from parasite. And so a lot of people empathize with these stories and voila, you not only have Koreans obviously empathizing with these characters, but worldwide audiences and the,

17 (21m 22s):
The skirt goes to parasite.

0 (21m 31s):
Do you think shows like these change, how we feel about capitalism or do they just sort of keep us entertained and primed for even more capitalism, you know, to renew our Netflix subscription or to go out and buy a pair of vans because all the main characters in squid game are assigned vans. Yeah.

12 (21m 48s):
Oh, that's my new Hollywood costume, which was a reaction that I had of course. And there is enough comedy and, you know, I guess how can I say this fantasy, you know, elements that are out there to mitigate that kind of a feeling of, oh, this feels awful. You know, like I, I've got the same kind of credit card debt, you know, $50,000 or student debt that I can't pay, But I think it still starts us to talk about as a global and conscientious citizens, if you will, you know, enable us to think about and conceptualize.

12 (22m 29s):
Even the however unrealistic dose frames are to provide a certain kinds of talking point among us. And certainly that's what power of cultural contents are. You know, good movie ought to bring out.

0 (22m 50s):
Young. Kim is a professor at the university of California, Irvine. He's also the author of the zoom play. The mask debate. Lucas shot, who you heard from earlier in the show is an entertainment reporter for Bloomberg. He's also got a newsletter it's called screen time. You can find a link to it on his Twitter. He's at Lucas. Underscore Shaw today explained is at today, underscore explained our show today was produced by miles Bryan he's at miles underscore underscore Brian I'm at Ramez for him, no underscores, but maybe miles will let me borrow one of his

1 (23m 42s):
Nice try his back for a second season.

2 (23m 45s):
And this time asking how much self-improvement can we expect to buy in a box I'm Avery Truffleman and from mattresses to be days to crockpots join us. As we explore the history science and cultural impact behind the lifestyle technology that surrounds us. We aren't

11 (24m 3s):
Something to be slow and deliberate about it. We need to do more than one thing.

2 (24m 7s):
At the same time for decades, Americans have constantly been sold new versions of the same products that have been around a long time, sometimes centuries. And nice try is a podcast about humanity's attempts at perfection. Listen to nice try on apple, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts.

18 (24m 35s):
Hey, there it's Neil Patel, editor and chief of the verge and host of the verge cast and decoder. The verge is turning 10 this year and we're celebrating live in New York city on a tuber 22nd and 23rd with an epic two day event. Of course, I'll be there along with other notable journalists on the verge and some incredible guests, immersive tech in art experiences all day DJs and great New York food and drinks. For a limited time, we're offering Vox media podcast network fans $150 off our standard ticket. Go to the verge.com/on the verge for tickets and enter promo code dollar sign nine, nine. Now at checkout, I'd love to see either.