0 (1s):
This is today explained I'm Sean Rama's firm. And I wish I were shocked yesterday. When I saw the news of a mass shooting at an elementary school in Ubaldi Texas, I was devastated. I felt powerless, but I did not feel shock because the United States hasn't done anything significant since Columbine, since Virginia tech, since Sandy hook, since Orlando, since Vegas, since Parkland, since El Paso, since Buffalo to stop this, this is a country where you have to wake up every day and go out into the world, knowing there's a non-zero chance, you might get murdered by a stranger for no reason at all.

0 (45s):
And most of us are resigned to that fact. And it's easy to just give up, but on the show today, one of my colleagues here at Vox was lived through a school shooting herself is going to tell us why we shouldn't

1 (59s):
Today's episode is sponsored by thorn. Thorn believes that aging is a journey to be embraced, but it also recognizes that there are ways to make that journey more comfortable. That's why thorn provides a unique, comprehensive approach to healthy aging. Thorn is a health and tech company that teaches you about your body. And based on test results offers supplements that support your specific wellness goals and health needs to learn more, go to thorn.com/u/explained thorn.com/the letter U slash explained.

2 (1m 36s):
Dakota is a show about how big ideas really work and where they might go wrong. Hosted by me, Neil Patel editor in chief of the verge. I interview CEOs, policymakers, tech, experts, and creators about how they make decisions and how those decisions affect our shared future for better or worse past episodes have covered everything from self-driving cars to crypto, to social media moderation. It's a thoughtful, critical conversation about business and technology that you will not hear anywhere else. Follow Dakota, wherever you find your podcasts, new episodes come out every Tuesday.

0 (2m 15s):
It's an, I explained I'm Sean Ramez for a Marin Kogan. You're a senior correspondent here at Vox. It's regrettably, easy to be cynical about the possibility of change in a moment like this, but you would argue against cynicism.

4 (2m 33s):
I would, for the simple reason that we can't afford to be cynical, the stakes are way too high. We have lost too many children, too many people in their places of worship, going to concerts in grocery stores. Too many people have faced. This threat have been killed by guns and mass shootings in America. Too many children have experienced these types of tragedies at schools. The stakes are just too high to say that nothing is going to change because it hasn't changed already. So the notion that, because it hasn't happened already means that it'll never happen is to me a form of sort of weary defeatism that we simply cannot afford to have.

4 (3m 17s):
We need to take care of each other and take care of each other's children so much better than we have in this country.

0 (3m 25s):
I guess one of the reasons behind some of the cynicism is people see something that actually shocks them in a country where gun violence is so quotidian at this point. And they think, oh, something could happen. And then it doesn't. And two obvious examples are Sandy hook where children were murdered, followed by Parkland where these high school students took their school shooting and turned it into a national movement. The March for our lives. I spoke to David Hogg, a Parkland survivor, who was one of the chief organizers of that movement on this show back in 2018.

0 (4m 8s):
And he remained optimistic. You know, midterm elections were approaching. He was campaigning across the country and I was a little more cynical and he scolded me for that.

5 (4m 21s):
Just, just don't get it wrong. Like I know, I know it's, it's easy to stay focused on the negativity, but there's a lot of positive shit that has come out of this. The fact that youth voter registration and some districts has got up that came out of the local people that were mobilized in part because of us. And a lot of those areas, people don't talk about that. Young people are tired of taking old people's shit,

0 (4m 42s):
But then nothing happened, which only sort of reaffirmed for me, at least this cyclical feeling that I have, which is shooting attention, attention, dissipates, nothing happens, shooting attention, attention, dissipates, nothing happens. Do you feel the sort of dread of that cycle?

4 (5m 5s):
Oh, absolutely. I definitely feel it. And I want to say Sean, that I think that your feeling is so understandable, right? It's completely understandable that we feel sad and that we do feel defeated after these events happen, where they are truly shocking and they keep happening over and over and over again. And it can get to the point where we don't really hear a lot about a lot of shootings that happen in this country every day. If the death toll isn't high enough, it's just, it just doesn't rate as important enough news, but we need to keep being shocked for people who have survived for the Parkland survivors who went on to start a movement, they can't afford to be cynical either.

4 (5m 45s):
They cannot afford to say, oh, well, this is going to keep happening to other kids. They actually live through this and that's why they're fighting for something different. And I think that if they are willing to put themselves out there and you know, really become political actors and face all of the consequences and the vitriol that comes with that, because they don't want other people to go through what they did, then we can't afford to be cynical either. I think we owe it to them and we owe it to other kids to make sure that we're doing everything we can to make sure something like this doesn't happen again. And you know, it is going to take a lot of time. I think it's easy to look back and say, well, nothing happened after Sandy hook, so therefore nothing's going to happen.

4 (6m 25s):
But we actually don't know that it's really hard when you're living through a historical moment to know which events were the turning points. It's only in retrospect after those changes have happened, that we're able to see, okay, that was a turning point. And I have to think and have to believe that we will look back on Sandy hook as a turning point, that we will look back on the shooting that happened on Tuesday in Texas and say, this was a turning point that these are moments of the American public coming together and saying no more. We have to do better. We have to protect each other.

0 (6m 59s):
And if you can believe that, what are you even hoping for at this point? What is the ideal legislation or scenario? Because as we well know, before the pandemic happened, there were more guns than there are people in this country, then gun sales skyrocketed. So now we have even more, some intangible number of firearms floating around in this country. So how much are red flag laws and, and background checks, which we can't even all agree on as a country going to do

4 (7m 35s):
Well. So the reality is, I don't know what they're going to do. I mean, I can't, you know, you could take any one particular proposed policy that's on the table and we can analyze them and we can project what we think that they will do. But the reality is we don't know, because a lot of these things we haven't tried, This is something that I came across when interviewing other survivors of school shootings. A lot of them felt like, look, I'm not an expert on the policy in particular, but I will take anything that indicates that we think that this is a problem, and we're trying to do something about it. So, I mean, I think about this in terms of something like climate change.

4 (8m 18s):
This is a huge, massive problem, but we don't just say, well, nothing's going to work. So we might as well not try. Right? We think about the solutions. We propose the solutions. We look for legislators and lawmakers that are willing to try to pass something. But these big issues often rise and fall on a single person's vote. And that may mean that we're not quite as far away from change, as we think we are.

6 (8m 46s):
It's a time to turn this pain into action for every parent, for every citizen of this country, we have to make it clear to every elected official in this country. It's time to act.

7 (9m 12s):
What are we doing? Just days after a shooter walked into a grocery store to gun down African American patrons. We have another Sandy hook on our hands. What are we doing? More mass shootings than days in the year. Our kids are living in fear Every single time they set foot in the classroom because they think they're going to be next. What are we doing? Why do you spend all this time running for the United States Senate? Why do you go through all the hassle of getting this job or putting yourself in a position of authority?

7 (9m 58s):
If your answer is that as this slaughter increases, as our kids run for their lives, we do nothing. What are we doing?

0 (10m 16s):
We're going to pause here for a moment when we're back. Marin talks about her own experience with school shootings because she lived through one it's today, explained

9 (10m 28s):
Check out these courts. Chopin made that sound famous in his funeral March, but it's actually the same chords that are found in Nirvana's song, something in the way. This 180 year old ominous chord progression resonates with Cobain's melancholy lyrics. And the sound is connecting with listeners still today. Something in the way climbed billboards hot 100 and March, 2022 marketing. The fifth time Nirvana has been on the chart just like today. Explain breaks down the days. Latest stories switched on pop does the same for today's songs because it's not just Nirvana.

9 (11m 12s):
That's having a resurgence. The angst, the sounds of nineties alternative music has made a comeback. The genre's anti-corporate perspective, which developed out of the excesses of the eighties is a fitting backdrop to contemporary activists attitudes. This genre is back, but it's taken on a new sound with new faces. The second time around subscribe to switched on pop and discover the new alternative I'm cohost songwriter. Charlie Harding find switched on pop anywhere you get podcasts

10 (11m 43s):
In politics. You're often told not to get lost in the weeds, but we love the weeds. Here's the weeds. We help break down where politics policy, because policy will not always the shiny and dazzling part of politics is often where the really important stuff happens. Like what can we do about learning loss and children after COVID? Or how can we streamline unemployment benefits to people who need it? I'm your host, Dylan Matthews each week in a round table discussion. My co-host darlin and I break down what's going on in the policy world to help it make sense to you, our listeners wondering what's going on with inflation right now. We've got you. What about Biden's climate objectives? We'll walk you through it and you don't just get to hear from us.

10 (12m 25s):
You'll hear from all the incredible reporters at Fox and elsewhere to talk about Congress taxes, housing policy, midterm, student loan debt, just a huge fruit basket of policy help make sense of politics by subscribing to the weeds, wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (12m 51s):
I know you report on gun violence here at Vox, but you are yourself. Someone who lived through a mass shooting in middle school.

4 (13m 0s):
Yeah. So when I was 12 classmate in eighth grade, brought a gun to the eighth grade dinner dance. So I was too young to be in the dance hall where it happened, but I was standing right outside with some of my friends. So I didn't see what had happened, but I watched a bunch of eighth graders run out of the dance hall and their formal wear and their corsages. And they were crying and really upset. We had heard a noise that we all assumed was balloons popping, but which we later found out were bullets being fired.

4 (13m 44s):
A few seconds later, someone had yelled that the student had a gun and that he had shot one of our teachers in the leg, my friends and I hit. And we were at this little sort of mini golf course next to this dance hall in my town. And we all ran and hid in the concession stands and got down on the ground while that was happening. The parent of one of my classmates who owned this complex, chase the student out and convinced him to give up the gun, but our teacher was killed in that shooting.

0 (14m 18s):
And this was in what year, again,

4 (14m 19s):
This was 1998,

0 (14m 21s):
Which was sort of before this became such a regular part of American life.

4 (14m 25s):
Definitely. So I believe Jonesborough that shooting had just happened. And then there was the shooting in my community and then almost exactly a year later was Columbine. And that is kind of what I think of as the beginning of the modern school shooting era.

0 (14m 46s):
Did your school have any idea how to deal with this kind of thing in 1990? I

4 (14m 52s):
Think no one had any idea of how to deal with it. The thing that I always come back to is this notion that we just didn't have the language to discuss what had happened. Unfortunately, we're now, so well-versed in talking about these things, but in 1998, it was a very different story. I do remember that all of us who were there were required to go to these group counseling sessions at school. And I just remember more than anything else, the silence, because no one really knew what to say. We just didn't have the language for it.

0 (15m 27s):
How did you process it in light of the fact that your school and your community didn't know how to help you a middle-schooler process murder happening at your school?

4 (15m 40s):
There were certain things I remember there was a church service in the community that I went to and there was the funeral, which were really important, grieving moments. We planted trees outside the school and made a little garden for teacher. But you know, beyond that, I think, you know, everyone did their best. All the teachers and parents, you know, they had lived through something horrific too, and everyone was trying their best, but because we didn't really have the resources and the language to talk about it, there was just simply not a lot of discussion. And I don't necessarily feel like I was traumatized by that experience.

4 (16m 23s):
But I do feel like there's a reason why I've spent so much of my career thinking about these issues and talking to survivors of mass shootings. It's because in some ways I'm sort of processing and untangling my own feelings about what happened in my community.

0 (16m 42s):
Yeah. You've reported on what you call, I guess, the school shooting generation for Vox. What did you find when you spoke to people like you, who had lived through these tragedies?

4 (16m 54s):
I found that there are hundreds, if not thousands of people across the country who had these experiences at a time when the resources didn't exist for them to get the help that they needed. I found a lot of adults who spoke about feeling the need to behave. Like they were okay when they weren't necessarily, because they didn't think that they were allowed to be victims. One survivor I spoke to, he was shot in the head, but the bullet only grazed him. And he said, I needed to get back to school right away, because I wasn't truly injured enough. Which, you know, in retrospect he said, it's just such a sad thing to think that I didn't think that I was injured enough, but I found tons of people who felt like they weren't affected or impacted enough to consider themselves victims.

4 (17m 45s):
And what I found with those people was that much later in life, that trauma came back because they didn't have an outlet for it or a way of processing it as a kid.

0 (17m 57s):
And then they see shooting after shooting, after shooting as do you, how do you respond when you see this pattern, this cycle? Is it just more and more drama?

4 (18m 10s):
Yeah, I think it can be, I think it can be triggering for a lot of survivors. One, I spoke to told me that before he went to get help and he, you know, he was shot when he was seven at another elementary school shooting in 1989, he didn't go to get help until he was in his thirties. But he said before he got help, he would hear about these shootings and he would just start sobbing. He'd be driving in his car and would just start sobbing because the reaction was so strong. It can also though be an opportunity to reconsider what happened to them. One of the survivors I heard from said, you know, I was silent for 20 years and it kept happening and I'm tired of it.

4 (18m 52s):
And he became a really outspoken advocate as an adult. He was inspired by the Parkland survivors. Actually, he said, this keeps happening again. And again, I'm not going to be silent about it anymore. So I think it's certainly a double-edged sword. It can be very painful for survivors to have to live through this over and over and over again. But for some, you know, seeing these things happen again, had been a moment for them to experience some resilience and decide that they were going to do something about it. You know, they were going to try to fight for a safer world for everyone else.

0 (19m 26s):
We know about the Parkland kids. We know there are kids out there who want to fight, but did you talk to anyone or come across? Anyone who had given up who had said, I'm moving to Mexico. I can't deal with this. Or, or even just simply I have no faith in this country. I carry a firearm with me to protect myself. I don't think gun control laws are going to do anything.

4 (19m 54s):
Yeah. So I definitely, I wouldn't say I met anyone who wanted to give up and move to Mexico, but I definitely met people who did not necessarily think that gun control was the answer. People who have survived or not. It's not a given that they're going to be pro gun control. That is more determined by like where someone grew up by the sort of political and cultural leanings of their environment and their family. And, you know, even some of the people I spoke to who had been through these experiences and had been shot, did favor gun control, but also owned guns themselves. Some of them owned assault rifles, which is not a casual gun owners gun, some of them had concealed carry permits.

4 (20m 40s):
So I think one of the things that I have noticed is that we tend to think of these sides is very black and white. You either, you know, absolutely love guns, a hundred percent, you know, NRA member, total ideolog, or you're sort of like a city liberal who would never own a gun and thinks the whole concept is horrifying. But actually there's a ton of people between those two poles. And this is another reason why I think people shouldn't be completely hopeless. There are a lot of people who have complex and conflicted feelings about guns. There are a lot of people who own guns, but think that the current situation that we have is not sustainable or tenable.

4 (21m 22s):
So it's not necessarily one or the other. And that includes people who have been shot in school shootings. There are people who've been shot in school shootings who think that we need better gun control and universal background checks and also carry firearms themselves and use them themselves. But I will say just to add on to that, I do think that when we talk about it as completely black or white, which I understand why that happens. But I do think like we start to drift away from the possibility of change when we assume that these sides are this and that, and that they're completely entrenched. I think that might be true on a sort of legislative and political level, but among the public, I think there's quite a bit of nuance,

0 (22m 2s):
Right? Because whatever your politics are, there's no one who's pro kids getting shot at school.

4 (22m 9s):
One would hope that that's the case. Yes,

0 (22m 12s):
Though. Kids now are trained to expect this kind of thing. They're drilled to expect this kind of thing. Every school aged child in America goes to school and is told that this kind of thing could happen, which is a difference I imagined between the era in which you and I went to school in this country.

4 (22m 33s):
Yeah, that's definitely true. I mean, this is something I heard from the survivors, as well as that most of them now have kids and the kids have gone through these drills in large part because of what their parents had gone through. And the fact that nothing had changed after their parents had been involved in school shootings. So certainly the research that's out there suggests that these drills increase anxiety and fear among children who experienced them and sometimes cause more harm than good. And so we clearly need some sort of training, I think, or awareness for kids, but I'm not sure that the way that we've gone about it is helpful to their overall wellbeing.

4 (23m 20s):
Yeah.

0 (23m 21s):
Yeah. What do the parents who survived school shootings tell their kids when they send them to school in the morning?

4 (23m 29s):
Yeah. So different parents had different ways of dealing with it, but I think all of them really struggled with this question of what to say. Most of them had told their kids about what had happened to them. Most of them tried to do it in a way that it wouldn't traumatize their children. You know, they wanted them to know that this is something that happened to mom or this is something that happened to dad, but they shouldn't be afraid they should go to school and that they would be safe there. But I do know that one of the survivors I spoke to talked about his daughter coming home from kindergarten and talking about having to turn off all the lights and hide from the bad man for a drill was the moment that he sort of decided enough was enough and that he wanted to work for a world in which his child wouldn't need to go through those drills.

4 (24m 20s):
And, and, you know, would never experience something like he had experienced as a kid.

0 (24m 25s):
Because the other version of those parents you talked about, I mean, I'm not trying to call anyone out here, but it's kind of a lie that we tell our kids and we tell ourselves that you're going to go out in the world and everything's going to be okay because that's just not guaranteed.

4 (24m 41s):
It's not guaranteed. And I think that the only thing we can do on a day-to-day basis to not completely lose our minds about the situation is to kind of live with that white lie, but it's not okay. It, you know, it, it sits with us wrong for a reason. And the reason is that this is not normal and it's not okay. And this isn't something that, that parents in every country on earth deal with. They don't worry about whether their kids are going to be safe in school every day. So I think, yeah, we, we do tell them that. And we tell ourselves that because we have a hard time acknowledging the reality, which is that we have done way too little to keep our children safe and to keep all of us safe in public spaces.

4 (25m 23s):
And I think we need to have a real conversation about that and what, what we need to do and what we're going to do to take care of each other.

0 (25m 38s):
Marin Cogan, that piece she wrote earlier this year that we talked about is titled the school shooting generation grows up. You can find it@vox.com. If you have questions about gun control or the second amendment, or if you just want to vent, we have a listener hotline you can call. The number is 2 0 2 6 8 8 5 9 4 4. You can leave us a message. We will listen to 0 2 6, 8 8 5 9 4 4. I'm Sean Ramos from the show today was produced by Hadi Milwaukee, D and Victoria Chamberlain edited by Matthew Collette fact checked by Laura Bullard mixed and mastered by a female Shapiro.

0 (26m 18s):
Our team is led by Amina <inaudible> and includes Halima Shaw. Avishai artsy. Miles' Brian, Paul mousey, and my co-hosts Noel king. Liz Kelly Nelson is the VP of audio at box. And our audio fellow is Tori Domingas. We use music from Breakmaster cylinder and sometimes no I'm Hassenfeld we're on the radio in partnership with w N Y C today explained part of the Vox media podcast network.