0 (0s):
No,

1 (7s):
It's Today, Explained, I'm Sean Ramez from back when we still went into our office and DuPont circle in Washington, DC, I biked past the Capitol building and the white house almost every day. And it's impossible to not appreciate the openness of these institutions. You can walk right up to them. You can protest in front of them. You can flip the bird and yell at your leaders if you want to go nuts. But then last year there was a protest after the death of George Floyd and things got a little less open. There was more security around the capital. And eventually the kind of turned the white house into like a walled fortress. It's still like that today. And that is sad, but it certainly suggests that the powers that be in Washington, DC, they know how to really keep people away when they want to, which made yesterday's events all the more confusing perplexing dumbfounding a lot is still unknown.

1 (1m 0s):
But on the show today, we're going to try and explain what we do know how a number of players and agencies managed to let the United States Capitol fall Dan Lamothe reports on national security at the Washington post. And we started with one peculiar thing you need to understand about the district, its kind of like a police convention out there, 24 seven, three 65.

2 (1m 23s):
Yeah. Even on a normal day, you you're working with a Capitol police park, police, DC police, Pentagon police, you know, and that's to say nothing of, of any kind of unusual day or event where you end up with, you know, other forces of, of various kinds that can be called into exist.

1 (1m 43s):
And how do all these forces work together typically, which they have to almost every day. I imagine on some level

2 (1m 50s):
There's usually a specific organization put in charge with others, coordinating with them. In this case this week justice department is taking the lead and then you've got involvement from the Pentagon, with the army secretary and the defense secretary.

1 (2m 7s):
Hmm. I feel like this isn't the first time in recent memory where we could look at how all of these different forces, maybe it didn't work together as of yet,

2 (2m 18s):
Some of the is possible. This was something that was a subject of discussion after the protests around black lives matter. Right.

0 (2m 26s):
<inaudible>

2 (2m 29s):
Yeah. And I actually think what we saw and the limited response that we saw in real time a as the Capitol was being breached, you know, at least in part a, a large function of possibly over-correcting from June

0 (2m 45s):
<inaudible>

2 (2m 51s):
They launched these last bang grenades at first, then these tear gas canisters in, you had thousands of national guardsmen who are on duty before, you know, to lock this

0 (3m 4s):
Giant armory to miles from the Capitol building was the staging ground for 5,100 guard members. And then,

2 (3m 10s):
And from 11 States and DC, you had this weird hodgepodge of not only typical police, but like prison guards and other things that were, you know, put on the city streets as additional bodies and, and sort of this nebulous police force that weren't even well-identified and, and, and nobody really knew who they were working for, who they were reporting to

0 (3m 35s):
Of Democrats from the Senate and house are demanding answers from attorney general, William Barr about unidentified law enforcement officers seen it.

2 (3m 43s):
And Washington this time. It, it was much more limited in, in terms of scope. And while mayor Bowzer, the, the, the mayor of DC was quite forceful and openly opposing this vast response that they saw in June concerned about sort of this militarized look and the city in this case, what she requested from the national guard in the Pentagon, it is pretty much what she got. And what was that we were, as you had several thousand national guardsmen on duty, if at any time, sorta at the height of the protest in June, in this case, you had a total of 340 D C national guard members who were activated and that's not even the same.

2 (4m 26s):
They were all on duty. At one time, it was more like a half at a time, 12 hour shifts

0 (4m 31s):
Sources say the soldiers will not be armed to wearing body armor and will mainly be around for a traffic control. There'll be active Today through Thursday, no traditional active duty military will be pressed.

2 (4m 41s):
And that would in part allow police to do other things more focused on some sort of protest. And the idea is to keep law enforcement in the front of a law enforcement response.

1 (4m 54s):
So 300, some odd national guard from DC were mostly unarmed and doing traffic control. So what does that mean for the Capitol yesterday, where there was some awareness in advance that these protests, these riots or whatever they wore would end up at the Capitol where a pivotal confirmation vote would happen for president elect Joe Biden, who was put in charge of the Capitol yesterday

2 (5m 21s):
At the Capitol, in terms of the security response to the Capitol police would have had a very leading role. And then, you know, the justice department would have been coordinating with other organizations to make sure that the overall federal response was working, that they were tracking intelligence, that they were, you know, aware of any problems as they were coming up in real time. In this case, you know, my own reporting would suggest that a as things got increasingly hairy at the capital and the outer perimeter, which wasn't even really well hardened or formed around the building was, was breached.

0 (6m 1s):
Meanwhile, up on the steps of the backside of the Capitol, we're seeing protesters overcome the police. The police are not running back in to the Capitol building. We have some of the protests,

2 (6m 13s):
It wasn't a request from the DC officials and Capitol police to the military saying, Hey, can you send national guard immediately? And because of all of these previous discussions and restrictions that were put on the national guard, there was some, at least a half hour of sort of indecision in terms of what they could do, how they could respond, what was the appropriate?

0 (6m 42s):
No, sir.

2 (6m 45s):
And I have heard frustration from some of the Pentagon saying, you know, we reigned in, in, at your own request. Now we're getting basically near a fall for the flip side of it, which is that, you know, we didn't have the heavy handed response to the way a lot of people argued. We did in June. I'd like to talk a little bit more about how the security bureaucracy interacted yesterday, but before we go there, let's, let's focus as much as we can on, on what exactly transpired at the Capitol. I know a lot of the details are still a little hazy, but what was the security setup as best as we know yesterday on the Capitol to protect this vote and this building

3 (7m 39s):
Several times

2 (7m 39s):
A thousand police were in various roles involved. And I, and I think for that reason, they had the sense that that was sufficient. But looking back on it, this included a sort of limited response in terms of what they had outside. The building barriers to traffic, saw a horse type things that were set up outside, you know, a ways away from the Capitol building. You had some police, but they weren't in any kind of a riot gear, you know, and they were sort of observing when a large crowd is directed at the Capitol building

3 (8m 16s):
All at once. We're going to walk down Pennsylvania Avenue, I love Pennsylvania, and we're going to the Capitol and we're going to try and give you the Democrats a hopeless. They never voted for anything, not even one vote, but we're going to try and give our Republican's the weak ones. 'cause the strong ones don't need any of our help. We're going to try and give them the kind of pride and baldness that they need to take back our country. So,

2 (8m 51s):
And that was not something they were prepared for. It clearly. I mean, I, I don't, I don't think can really even argue otherwise at this point, I mean, we all saw what happened Response immediately around the Capitol building, once this crowd and mob really, it was right on the Capitol steps, our own reporting, talking to law enforcement experts, previous police chiefs, things of that sort is that it was really already too late.

0 (9m 33s):
We were speaking to protestors. You said there was a bottleneck. They were trying to get more protestors up from the ellipsis to the Capitol, but there was a log jam. And so what we're seeing now is more people coming up from my right side. That's the way.

2 (9m 46s):
And once you're already that clothes, you don't have the standoff distance. You don't have the ability to protect all your doors and all of your windows and keep people outside. Yeah. You know, and that, that's how you're able to start breaking side windows and getting in, you know, in other ways. And once you got a couple people in, it's pretty darn easy to open the door and let others in, you know, it's almost the reverse of a prison break or to draw a connection to some of the things I've covered more typically when you have an attack on a military base in a foreign country. Yeah.

2 (10m 26s):
This is the sort of things you see there, you breach in one spot, a handful of people get in and then you try and open up as many entrance ways as possible. It's the same sort of idea. There's been lots of videos circulating online of these breeches. And they're seems to be this impression that the Capitol police may have at some point just capitulated and an open the flood Gates to these riders. Is that a possibility here? Do we know at this point, I don't think we know definitively who did what, but I do think we've got some images chose to work on and ask questions about, you know, a seemingly friendly conversation inside the building between police and members of this mob.

2 (11m 14s):
We do have selfies being taken with police and members who are already in the building without authorization. That doesn't look like everybody on that police force was doing their level best to, to keep the building free, you know, particularly with, you know, federal business going on at that very minute. On the flip side, we do have signs that at least some we're trying to keep people out,

0 (11m 40s):
Look at this. This is the crypt of the us Capitol. And what your looking at is essentially a hand-to-hand combat between Capitol police officers and these protestors who appear to be trying to that area of the Capitol as police officers try to keep them,

2 (11m 58s):
Do you know, there were images of a police shoving mob away from the building outside

0 (12m 4s):
<inaudible>

2 (12m 9s):
There is a fatality here where one of the people who got in the building was shot as she entered

0 (12m 15s):
<inaudible>

2 (12m 22s):
No, I, I think it's a mixed response and we're likely to find it. Some di did everything they could to keep this mob outside and that some either gave up or, or didn't really try that hard to begin with. There's been a lot of attention on how this particular incident was handled in comparison to the protests during say the Kavanaugh hearings where dozens upon dozens of arrests were made.

4 (12m 47s):
Do you have any idea of how many arrests

2 (12m 51s):
On Wednesday on the Capitol? The number's the police released late in the evening close to midnight was that they were up to 52 arrests, which, you know, clearly the crowd inside of the building was larger than that. So your left to wonder why I think the short answer from what we've seen so far is the police also didn't have enough ability to keep people, to detain people once they were breaking the law. And then I think the other thing is once there was a mob in the building and the immediate concern and response became protecting staff, protecting lawmakers, protecting journalists, and anybody else that was doing their regular job in the Capitol safety became the primary concern for people as opposed to the building itself, More on why after a quick break

0 (14m 8s):
<inaudible>

4 (14m 13s):
In the late seventies tensions between Houston police and the Mexican American community exploded. The result was a daring experiment for five young Latino police officers. They were tasked with solving Houston's toughest crimes in rebuilding trust all while being torn between the neighborhoods that raised them and the badges they wore. My name is <inaudible> and this is the story of the Chicano squad subscribed to Chicano squad from the Vox media podcast network on Spotify or wherever you listen. Hi, I'm Avery. Truffleman the host of the cut a new podcast from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network.

5 (14m 53s):
Every Wednesday, we work to explore important provocative ideas about the world around us. So far, we've discussed what its like to move back into your parent's house and why that's actually an incredible and empowering thing to do. We've also talked about what it means to be a radical in society, expects you to be practical and pragmatic. We'd love for you to join us, subscribe to the cut in your favorite podcast app to get new episodes each week.

1 (15m 27s):
Dan do it. Do you have any idea why the Capitol police were so unprepared for a rally for a protest, for a mob that had done weeks of planning that, that, you know, the president had encouraged for for days and days and days, it's something the whole country saw coming. And yet it feels like this police force whose job it is to defend this building was caught completely off guard.

2 (15m 53s):
No, I don't think we have clarity on why yet. I think we have a lot of good, hard questions that need to be asked and answered. One thing that is a possibility here is there have been a lot of sort of situations where people have called for violence, where people have suggested, you know, taking action and some of those have turned out to be nothing, but, but I think the fear is if the vigilance doesn't stay there, when those calls for action are happening, you know, when something actually does go down, you, you might get caught with your pants down,

1 (16m 29s):
But this is a city that's, that's used to massive crowds, right? That's used to inaugurations and rallies against gun violence and you know, for more action on climate change and, and the right to life. I mean, you live around DC. I live in DC where used to seeing tens upon thousands upon tens upon thousands of people flooded into the city and for a really coordinated response. And in this case where, you know, you could say our democracy was hanging in the balance, there wasn't this coordinated effort on the same level. It seemed like.

2 (17m 8s):
Yeah, no, I, I think that's a fair description of events. They didn't have the preparation for this kind of response. I think that the argument will probably be made in at least some quarters that they thought they had a handle on it. And maybe they did. I mean, I think they probably thought they would get one thing prepared for one thing and then saw something else entirely. I think we can see that in, in terms of the limited number of personnel that were holding outside the building at any time, you're usually talking about security and this comes up in a military setting again, concentric circles where, you know, whatever is important, whatever you're trying to keep safe is inside several different layers of security, multiple layers of people, a security force is a various kinds.

2 (17m 53s):
In this case, the warrant that many layers in the layers they had, weren't that stiff.

1 (17m 58s):
You mentioned earlier that there was a request from mayor Bowzer and DC for the national guard to be activated, to at least control traffic on the streets. Do you have any idea why they're, wasn't a request for more reinforcements for the Capitol police?

2 (18m 15s):
No, I, other, other than that, it seemed pretty clear that they thought they had a handle on it. A request was made yesterday for additional reinforcements of the Capitol police. But, but at that point, the, you know, they're already at your door, like there's only so much, you're going to be able to pull off and, and you know, the span of an hour as it stood out, when they activated upwards of 1100 people last night in the national guard, at that point, you're dealing with logistics and geography. You know, the, the national guard members, don't all live downtown. And you know, these are the people that in some cases live hours away in Virginia and Maryland and beyond. So they're put on notice to basically saying, Hey, you need to get here your, your order to be here within four hours.

2 (18m 59s):
And in some cases they live three hours away and it's too late.

1 (19m 3s):
How did they ultimately deal with it? Because they did, of course clear the capital and Congress did get back to business.

2 (19m 11s):
Yeah. It came down to the police work. It came down a SWAT teams, a one criticism that I've seen quite a bit of is, you know, why weren't the national guard called in to the Capitol building, basically. Why wasn't the military clearing this mob out? And I think the short answer is when you get down to the expertise and who's trained to do what that actually probably wouldn't have gone. Well, a lot of national guard members, they're not trained in highly specialized police responses. These are truck drivers. These are clerks. These are folks that don't have that kind of skillset, which you do want at that point is probably a highly trained police.

1 (19m 50s):
Have you spoken to people in the military about how this country looked yesterday, about how secure this country looked yesterday?

2 (19m 59s):
No, I, I think that's a very fair and real concern because I think, I think there, there are a couple of different things that this sort of surfaces one is that the security concern, isn't always a foreign, you know, adversary, you know, sometimes it's somebody who just doesn't agree with the way things are going at home. And they're willing to take action on that in a way that can be violent in a way that can be seditious. You know, we're going to have to sort through what this ultimately looks like in terms of the specific charges that are brought, the military does not want for the most part to be in a law enforcement business.

2 (20m 42s):
You know, they want to be in a reserve for all. This is a country that I think is still often by the memory of Kent state and the national guard, opening fire on college students and other people. They're a, this is not something that the military wants to be in the business of having a leading role on. We go back to June. The president was openly flirting with invoking the insurrection act and pudding, you know, active duty service members train for combat on the streets of Washington. You know, that was something that freaked out. A lot of people in the Pentagon. They didn't want to go down that road would, they didn't want to be that kind of country. One of the reasons that I think the Pentagon was particularly concerned about having too many military forces handy on duty in uniform, ready to go is there was at least a concern in some corners at the Pentagon that if you make that force available the present and have it has the ability to use that for us.

2 (21m 45s):
But if the us military has the national guard on duty or some other force in reserve, that the president can use that in a number of ways and has pretty unlimited authority to do so, if you take it off the table, the president is not immediately able to use it, but it's also not available to stop something like what you saw it, the cap.

1 (22m 7s):
So, so what you're saying here is that some of the general hesitancy to beef up the nation's Capitol yesterday, more than it was might've had to do with giving the outgoing president power over that beefed up national guard, military presence, which is kind of amazing, I suppose. Does that mean that this is ultimately just going to come back to a discussion about the police and how they can just be doing their jobs better?

2 (22m 39s):
I would imagine that there is going to be a few conversations here. I think one of the major places need scrutinization is who is talking to who and at which point, which organizations are, are working together well, which organizations don't trust each other. I think one thing that we saw a lot of in June was a lot of anger directed at the national guard and the Pentagon by DC. And I think some of that was, it was fair. You know, w we saw helicopters flying 50 feet over to the top of protestors on arms civilians. You know, like that sort of the thing is not the kind of thing that you expect to see. And the United States of America in this case, the Pentagon's that, all right, you don't want that.

2 (23m 23s):
We don't want to look at this either. What do you need? What do you want? And then very sort of very limited ways. That's what you'll get the, the problem is when that was no longer sufficient, it wasn't really a backup plan yesterday and a backup plan. It doesn't have to be the national guard in some ways. It probably shouldn't be the national guard first, but what's your plan B DC in general.

0 (23m 46s):
And this is probably something that goes forward for a while is, is grappling with how does it deal with mass demonstrations? It, it always has on some level, but, but I think this is a particularly sensitive time. And I think this will continue to be the case. You know, how, how do you deal with pro-Trump groups that are willing to take actions? Like we saw yesterday? How do we deal with counter protest or counter actions to that? There is a natural tension. I think between security forces and civilians, if you do too much, it looks like it did in June in a lot of ways for a lot of people, ah, if you don't do it enough, you know, you'll end up with things.

0 (24m 27s):
I'll look more like God. And what we saw the capital Dan Lamar. He writes about the military at the Washington post. We like just about every other news outlet in America, reached out to the Capitol police for comment. They did not reach back, but us Capitol police, chief, Stephen sun released a statement. Today in it. He says the violent attack on the U Capitol was unlike any I have ever experienced in my 30 years in law enforcement here in Washington, DC, maintaining public safety in an open environment specifically for first amendment activities has long been a challenge, but he continues.

0 (25m 18s):
These mass riots were not first amendment activities. They were criminal riotous behavior. The actions of the us Capitol police officers were heroic. Given the situation they faced. He closes out by saying Capitol police is conducting a thorough review of the incident security planning, policies and procedures shortly after he released that statement. Speaker of the house, Nancy Pelosi called for his resignation shortly after that Capitol police chief Sund resigned it's Today Explained

5 (26m 25s):
Hi, I'm Avery. Truffleman the host of the cut a new podcast from New York magazine and the Vox media podcast network

0 (26m 35s):
Every Wednesday.

5 (26m 36s):
No, we were to explore important provocative ideas about the world around us. So far, we've discussed what its like to move back your parent's house and why that's actually an incredible and empowering thing to do. We've also talked about what it means to be a radical and society expects you to be practical and pragmatic. We'd love for you to join us, subscribe to the cut in your favorite podcast app to get new episodes each week.