1 (1s):
Hey guys, did you hear that? A, Barnes and Noble is opening in Northwest. DC. Oh, also one in Conroe and another in Panama. City. Beach plus Roxbury and Paramus and Cincinnati, and Cheyenne and Flower. Mound in Gainesville and Marina. Del, Rey and Burlingame. and four in Dallas. If. you have even a passing interest in the American economy or in books. One of the most stunning stories. this holiday shopping season is the rebirth of a bookstore chain. Barnes and Noble went from shop around the corner to big box, bad guy, gobbling up the competition as portrayed on screen. And you've got mail, You,

2 (36s):
Discover, a lot of things. If you really knew me,

3 (38s):
If, I really knew you I know what I would find Instead of a brain, a cash register instead of a heart. a bottom line.

1 (43s):
And then came the internet. And, Barnes and Noble very nearly died. Now from Doylestown to Meridian to the East. View, Mall in Victor. Barnes and Noble. Is Back. And how and how that's coming up on today explained.

Fetch Pet Insurance (1m 1s):
Your pup deserves the very best, the best food, the best dog bed, the best medical care. With Fetch, Pet, Insurance, you can use any vet in the US or Canada and get paid back up to 90% on unexpected vet bills. Fetch Pet Insurance is the most comprehensive insurance for dogs and cats and covers more types of injury and illness than most other providers, including sick visit exams and breed specific issues. Get a fast and free quote at Fetch Pet dot com slash Vox.

Atlassian (1m 34s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian Software like Jira, confluence, and Trello help power global collaboration for all teams so they can accomplish everything that's impossible alone, because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. No matter If, you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million Atlassian software keeps everyone connected and moving together as one towards shared company goals. Learn how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A n.com. Atlassian,

0 (2m 15s):
What do you think today explained this? I dunno,

1 (2m 23s):
Have you seen, you've got mail

6 (2m 24s):
I have seen You've got mail. Do you like it? I think you've got mail is like a perfect example of what the ver is all about, which is that technology dominates the culture whether you like it or not. So they made an entire blockbuster rom-com movie about a OL. Like fundamentally, that movie is about an a OL notification sound. You've got

0 (2m 45s):
Mail

6 (2m 46s):
And I think that is amazing.

1 (2m 48s):
Neli Patel is the editor in chief of The Verge, and he Hosts the decoder podcast.

6 (2m 53s):
The entire story of Barnes and Noble is a story of growth through acquisitions. So there, there was a Barnes, there was a Noble, oh, they joined forces in the late 18 hundreds. Their flagship store in New York has been operating since 1932 in New York City. And you know, it was a bookstore. And then what happened is they just started voraciously acquiring other bookstores first in New York, and then in in the nineties, they acquired b Dalton, which is like the ultimate Mall bookstore, and they became this gigantic force in books.

7 (3m 26s):
Do you have any books on electrical wiring? Sorry? Have you tried Barnes and Noble? Barnes and Noble? Of course, of course.

6 (3m 33s):
And it, it all started with, you know, two guys joining forces, but it's been acquisitions and mergers the whole way through.

1 (3m 40s):
They just gobbled up other bookstores, other brands, and then we get into their, you've got Mail Arrow where it's like, okay, Barnes and Noble is the behemoth, the Goliath. No one can beat them. They're kind of the bad guy. And then for people whose memories kind of cut off in 1999, as maybe mine does, what, what actually happened to Barnes and Noble

6 (4m 3s):
The internet? I I think pretty, huh? Pretty directly. The internet happened. So Barnes and Noble was built to become that Goliath, to become that villain in a pre-internet age. They did it right. They did become the villain, and you've got mail. They were eating all the small bookshops and small bookstores really couldn't compete with their selection, with their prices. It was impossible to compete with a company of that size unless you have the internet and Amazon can show up and offer unlimited selection.

8 (4m 32s):
It's not scary. And it's very, very fast.

9 (4m 35s):
Amazon.com discounts so many books that even with the shipping, you end up saving money.

8 (4m 40s):
It's fun, it's vast. It piques my interest.

6 (4m 43s):
This is the thesis of Amazon is that We will have everything. And because we are a virtual storefront, we don't have to pay to have one copy of everything everywhere. And so Amazon kind of begins to decimate Barnes and Noble's business. And Barnes and Noble reacts by first copying Amazon

10 (5m 0s):
Barnes and Noble dot com. If we don't have your book, nobody does.

6 (5m 3s):
Yeah, they launched an ill-fated competitor, the Kindle called The Nook, which is was an e-reader. Ah,

1 (5m 8s):
Remember,

11 (5m 9s):
Experience the only ebook reader in the bookstore you've grown up with Nook by Barnes and Noble.

6 (5m 15s):
They are not a technology company as a bad product. And then they do not understand that Amazon doesn't have all these marginal storage and shipping costs, and they try to put one of everything in the Barnes and Noble store. So Barnes and Noble starts stocking like hand sanitizer and gadgets, and it, the store loses its identity and eventually the costs will become too high. And Barnes and Noble starts to

12 (5m 37s):
Fail. Barnes and Noble saying they expect they're gonna close one third of their stores within the next decade because everything is moving online

6 (5m 45s):
At that time. Barnes and Noble was a public company. It's, and its stock was cratering.

1 (5m 51s):
Okay? So Barnes and Noble is a public company. If you're a shareholder of Barnes and Noble, you're freaking out. Something has to change. What changes?

6 (5m 59s):
So what happens is what happens to a lot of distrust companies lately, a private equity company called Elliot Management shows up and tells shareholders, Hey, we'll just buy this company from you. We'll, we'll pay a premium over the existing stock price. You can cut your losses, you can get out and we'll fix the company and we'll take it public again once we fixed it. Elliot hired a CEO named James Daunt, who has, by all accounts, completely revitalized Barnes and Noble.

1 (6m 24s):
The guy hired a CEO by the private equity company. You talked to him Earlier this year for Decoder. Who is James Daunt? I

6 (6m 32s):
Think this is the smartest thing that Elliot did. James is an independent bookstore owner,

13 (6m 38s):
And I'm a bookseller. I love bookstores. I think bookstores have a, a real importance within communities and a value in their own right. And therefore keeping them alive and, and prospering was really important.

6 (6m 50s):
Usually private equity companies show up and they hire financial guys. Yeah, they hire business people. They hire m and a experts, McKinsey types. James is a, owns his own bookstore. And then he was also the CEO of a larger chain of bookstores in the UK called Waterstones. And he won't let his store become part of Waterstones. He wants to know what it's like to be an independent bookseller.

13 (7m 13s):
Evidently, my first and true love is, is my own bookstores.

6 (7m 17s):
So you compete with yourself.

13 (7m 18s):
I compete with myself.

6 (7m 20s):
James' Point is, look, Amazon exists. Amazon is a bigger problem for books than Barnes and Noble ever was. So we have to provide much better services. We have to provide much better selection. And the role Barnes and Noble can play in the entire ecosystem is having enough purchasing volume and storage capacity and retail and distribution relationships that independent bookstores can also use.

13 (7m 44s):
The reality for, for booksellers is that you need all of the infrastructure independent booksellers. That is, you need the infrastructure from publishers, all the distribution and the reps and, and focus on physical bookstores to survive. And that it, that's really only there because there's this great huge chain Walton's in the uk, Bo and Noble in the United States. So now as an independent one looks at now looks at these big chains as, as a friend, not an enemy.

6 (8m 12s):
His entire approach is to just let the bookstores be local bookstores. And this has worked because they're, they're now more engaged in their communities. They're stocking books that their communities want. And people in those communities are coming to Barnes and Noble locations as what you might call third places. They're coming to hang out, talk about books, have a community around books, and then buy books, which is pretty important if you're a bookshop.

1 (8m 36s):
Alright, so he's a Tom Hanks, he's a Meg Ryan. We like both of them. What steps does he take? Is it all rosy?

6 (8m 44s):
It's not all rosy, but I think change is very hard. So If, you have this big company that was built to compete with Amazon that was trying to do everything And. you want to make it a smaller different company, you have no choice but to cut costs and make it a different company. And James cuts a lot of costs. Make no mistake. He shows up and says, why do I have gigantic central purchasing functions? Why do I have expensive real estate in New York City for executives and office staff? Why do I have an entire division of this company that is effectively selling space in the stores to publishers? And the biggest decision that he makes is he cuts that revenue line where publishers were paying to have prime placement in the stores.

6 (9m 27s):
And he says, no, I've gotta turn that back to the individual bookstore managers, the individual bookstore teams. And they get to pick what is prominently displayed in the store and what is not. And We will not take that money. And so he is gotta cut all of that down

13 (9m 40s):
From a a head office perspective. There's nothing personal When, you have one of these sort of great huge ructions. It's not saying, you know, no, you are useless. Off you go. I I I think you're a bad bookseller, bad buyer, bad merchant, bad whatever. We're saying, look guys, we're simply stopping doing a very significant amount of what we used to do.

6 (10m 3s):
You can see a vision there beyond, we have to cut cost and increase revenue. The vision is I need to empower these individual bookstore teams and I think that has made the bitter pill of the cuts and the changes easier for the entire company to swallow. And certainly easier for Barnes and Noble's customers to swallow.

1 (10m 21s):
Alright, so four years later, how well are the changes working? And and if it's no longer a public company, normally we'd look at the stock price we right? And we'd say, oh, they're doing great or they're doing badly. How well have the changes working? And how do we know whether they're working well or not?

6 (10m 35s):
By all accounts, they are working well, right? And, you can, you can see that Barnes and Noble is expanding. They're expanding their locations. They are renovating some of their stores. What

1 (10m 44s):
About sales?

6 (10m 45s):
We, we don't know because we don't have, we don't have access to its financials, granular sales data. It's just hard to know. The company isn't saying, what we do know is that publishing is doing really well and the things that we're supposed to kill it are actually accelerating momentum in publishing. So TikTok is the great enemy of all media, but book Talk is accelerating sales of books all over the place.

14 (11m 7s):
Let's talk about some of my instant buy offers. AKA offers who have not once let me down.

15 (11m 12s):
One thing that truly haunts me is the fact that I will never be able to read everything I want to read. Five

16 (11m 17s):
Outta Five A bajillion Outta five. It is so good. It is perfect. Everything about it. It's, it's like the best book ever,

6 (11m 24s):
Which is fascinating. If, you think about what's supposed to happen, which is one the kids stop reading 'cause they're on TikTok all day. And two, the internet makes local physical retailers completely obsolete.

1 (11m 35s):
Alright, in the second half of the show, NELI, we're gonna talk about private equity and why it's so controversial. But in your interview with him, you really pushed Daunt on the mechanics of how he took over at the behest of this private equity firm,

6 (11m 49s):
Right? So, you know, my rude retelling of this is the cutthroat version you bring in a CEO from a different country who also is the CEO of another giant bookstore. And he says, I'm gonna cut costs and I'm gonna change the way a company runs. And what people naturally think is, oh, we're gonna do more mergers. This is the history of Barnes and Noble, right? We're gonna, we're gonna merge Barnes and Noble and Waterstones. Maybe we'll eat your own independent bookstore. And his response to this was, no, that's not what we were doing. and I sat around talking to book people, to bookstore managers and the people working in the stores saying, you have to be in charge. and I. I fundamentally think having done many, many episodes of decoder, that the most powerful thing a CEO can do is actually tell the people they work for that they are in charge and accountable for what happens as opposed to being sort of imperial and saying, I've gotta cut costs.

6 (12m 39s):
I'm just making decisions. and I, you know, I I, you can listen to the episode, James says, people push back on this. They said, this is our, we just wanna sell books. And he said, well, there won't be a company If. you don't figure out how to sub books to your community and I. That is the difference between, I think his approach at Barnes and Noble and every other private equity story that I think you can tell.

1 (12m 59s):
So you are kind of in love with him.

6 (13m 2s):
I, I think I love a British accent. I think that's, that's real anyone's convincing. If, you have a good British accent. I love a nerd. and I think what you can get outta James is that at his core, he's a nerd for books and I and I am I'm happy for companies to exist that are run by people who are passionate about what they do and excited to make better experiences for other people. I think a lot of companies aren't, you know, I think a lot of companies are passionate about making money or dominating their competitors. And you. What you get outta James If, you listen to this episode is the man really cares about people reading books and If. you can build a business around that. That's pretty good.

1 (13m 44s):
That's Neli Patel coming up, acquisitions and mergers.

0 (14m 13s):
I wanted it to be you.

17 (14m 17s):
I wanted it to be you so

0 (14m 18s):
Badly.

Eli Lilly and Company (14m 25s):
Fox Creative. This is advertiser content from Eli, Lilly and Company. There's a fair amount of stigma with Alzheimer's disease. Dr. Brandy Matthews is a neurologist and Alzheimer's disease expert at Lilly, and she sees a chance for this to change. I'm hopeful that we're now entering an era in which people will actively seek a timely and accurate Alzheimer's disease diagnosis. To make this future real, we have to start unlearning some of the things we thought we knew about Alzheimer's disease. Like one untruth that I encounter is that everyone will inevitably develop Alzheimer's disease because it's part of normal aging memory and thinking. Do change with age, much like eyesight and hearing. However, these changes are relatively subtle and restricted, mostly to speed of thinking or processing information and naming of specific items when changes become observable to others or begin to interfere with typical activities as a red flag myth tooth. If I'm diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, there's not much I can do. Diagnosis that's timely in a patient's disease course may also have an impact on the progression of the disease. If the intervention happens early knowledge is power and acting early matters. If you're noticing memory and thinking issues piling up, go to more than normal aging.com to learn more.

Atlassian (16m 3s):
Support for this show comes from Atlassian. Atlassian Software like Jira, confluence and Trello help power the collaboration for teams to accomplish what would otherwise be impossible alone. Because individually we're great, but together we're so much better. That's why millions of teams around the world, including 75% of the Fortune 500 trust Atlassian software for everything from space exploration and green energy to delivering pizzas and podcasts. Whether you're a team of two, 200 or 2 million, or whether your team is around the corner or around another continent altogether, Atlassian software is built to help keep you all on the same page from start to finish. That way every one of your teams, from engineering and IT to marketing, HR, and legal can stay connected and moving together as one towards shared company-wide goals. Learn how to unleash the potential of your team at Atlassian dot com. That's A-T-L-A-S-S-I-A n.com. Atlassian.

Pluralsight (17m 5s):
This episode is brought to you by Pluralsight. Your org needs teams skilled in tomorrow's tech today. Whether you want faster innovation, better customer experiences, or streamlined software delivery, those solutions require teams skilled and savvy in the latest technologies. Equip your people with the skills they need to make the most of today's tools and tech. Visit pluralsight.com/pod and try it for free.

0 (17m 35s):
Do you mind?

2 (17m 36s):
I bet you read that book every year. I bet you just love that

5 (17m 39s):
Today. It's explained.

1 (17m 40s):
Brendan Ballou is author of the book, plunder Private Equities Plan to Pillage America. Brendan is also a federal prosecutor who wants us to know that he's speaking here in a personal capacity and not on behalf of his employer. However, it was his day job that got him interested in private equity in the first place.

18 (17m 58s):
So I became in interested in private equity while working at the Justice Department antitrust division where so many acquisitions were going on that appeared to be by businesses that I had never heard of.

17 (18m 11s):
The buyers for Toys us were a trio of investors. KKR Bain and

18 (18m 17s):
I wanna be a toys us kid firms like Carlisle and Blackstone and KKR firms that maybe your listeners have heard of, but if you're like me, probably not. These are private equity firms and as I started to dig into them, I learned that they were buying up huge swaths of American industry.

19 (18m 36s):
Private equity firms have been acquiring physicians practices and medical operations at an increasing rate over the last decade. Large

20 (18m 45s):
Corporations and private equity forms are buying up veterinary offices,

21 (18m 50s):
Investment groups. Some outside New Hampshire are buying New Hampshire manufactured home parks. And at

1 (18m 55s):
The same, okay, so what is private equity? How does it work? So

18 (18m 58s):
Private equity is something probably all of your listeners have heard of, but maybe feel, if you're like me, a little guilty for not knowing exactly what it does. But the business model is very simple. Private equity firms use a little bit of their own money, some investor money and a whole lot of borrowed money to buy up businesses. They then try to make financial or operational changes to these businesses with the aim of selling them for a profit a few years later. So it's a very simple idea, but for reasons that I'm sure we'll talk about, it often leads to bad consequences for those businesses, for their consumers, and for their employees.

1 (19m 38s):
Okay, so let's talk about how it works when it's working.

18 (19m 43s):
I think the, the best case scenario for private equity is that it brings professional management and operational skills to a business necessary capital and a needed focus to execute on a given strategy. And that by doing that quickly in a matter of years and then flipping the company, they can sort of energize businesses in a way that sort of stic slow moving public companies or, you know, intergenerational family companies might not be able to. That's, that's the argument in favor of private equity. At least.

1 (20m 19s):
Have private equity firms always been around? Are they a new development? you

18 (20m 23s):
Know, it's a great question. So, you know, there's always been something a little bit like private equity in the idea of buying up businesses with a little bit of debt and then trying to change them and sell them. I'd say that they, the idea of private equity or what's otherwise sometimes called the leveraged buyout really began in the 1970s. And if I can get in the weeds here just a little bit. Ooh,

1 (20m 46s):
You love the weeds?

18 (20m 47s):
Yes. What happened here is the Carter administration reinterpreted a law called erisa, which regulates pension funds and retirement plans and so forth, and said that for the first time pension funds could start investing in riskier assets. And those assets included what were called leverage buyouts. The idea that you buy up a business and then with a, with debt and then sell it for a profit a few years later. So it created a new market for this kind of business strategy. You couple that with changes in the capital gains rate and a long period of low interest rates, and suddenly this idea of buying companies with debt becomes possible in a way that it wasn't before.

18 (21m 33s):
I'd say to get back to your original question, you know, when did this take off? I think probably the shining first example would be Gibson greeting cards.

22 (21m 42s):
What's the nicest thing you could do today? Choose a Gibson card, send it on its way.

18 (21m 49s):
President Nixon's former treasury secretary, William Simon, along with a few other investors, put up $1 million on their own, borrowed $79 million, bought Gibson greeting cards and flipped it. Just 16 months later, Simon himself made I think something like $60 million on a less than $350,000 investment in under two years. Hmm. David Rubenstein, who went on to found the Carlisle Group, said something to the effect of, I didn't know what a leverage buyout was before that deal, but it sure sounded a lot better than practicing law. And he went on to found one of the largest private equity firms in the world.

1 (22m 30s):
Why is private equity I mean the, the title of your book is Plunder. Why is private equity bad in your view?

18 (22m 39s):
I think that there are three basic problems. One is that private equity firms invest typically just for a few short years, three or five or maybe seven years. And what that means is you tend to take a fairly short-term perspective on the businesses you buy. It discourages you from investing in research and development in r and d, in your own employees and so forth. So I think that's the first problem. The second one is that firms often load up companies with a lot of debt, as we were just talking about, and extract a lot of fees. Things like transaction fees or management fees, which are paid for by the companies they buy for the privilege of being owned by the private equity firm.

18 (23m 23s):
And then the third problem, and I think this is maybe the most important, but is the least understood, at least in the general public, and by many folks covering the industry, is that private equity firms are very good at insulating themselves from legal liability for the consequences of their portfolio company's actions. And so what that means is private equity firms can essentially control the operations of their businesses. But when something goes wrong, when a patient dies, when a customer is defrauded, when an employee is discriminated against, it's going to be very, very hard to hold the private equity firm responsible.

18 (24m 5s):
And so what that means is If, you combine all those problems, short-term thinking, reliance on debt and fees, insulation from liability. You have a business model where private equity firms can capture all the benefits when things go well, but can essentially walk away when things go poorly.

1 (24m 24s):
So you've just laid out all of the reasons that private equity might not be the best way to do business, but does it actually affect people?

18 (24m 35s):
So when we, we look at the statistics, private equity firms, when they buy businesses, those businesses are 10 times as likely to go bankrupt as similar businesses that aren't bought by PE firms. When private equity firms got interested in retail, they were responsible for an estimated 600,000 job losses over a 10 year period when the industry as a whole was gaining jobs. And in nursing homes, another industry that PE firms are particularly interested in, private equity ownership is responsible for an estimated 20,000 premature deaths over a 15 year period.

23 (25m 15s):
You want your doctor to be the advocate for you, and if they have this business interest over their shoulder, they may not be able to make the best decision for you.

1 (25m 27s):
In the first half of our show, Brendan, we talked about Barnes and Noble and how it seems like a private equity firm came in, turned a failing bookseller around using some very smart tactics. When, you look at a story like Barnes and Noble that appears to be successful. Do you think there's something else going on behind the scenes or do you think in some cases private equity really does work?

18 (25m 51s):
Oh, absolutely. I don't wanna overstate my case here and say that every private equity acquisition is going to end in disaster. I certainly think that there have been stories where private equity firms have made investments that resulted in successful companies and they have been rightly touted. I think the analogy here is a little bit like the Ford Pintos of the 1970s. you know, these cars that you know, if hit were reliable to explode. It wasn't that every Ford Pinto exploded that made it unsafe at any speed. It's that enough of them exploded that it was a dangerous car. I think it's a similar thing here, which is because of our laws and regulations, the incentives we've got around private equity, it tends to lead to more dangerous outcomes for businesses.

18 (26m 36s):
And so if we can go back to those original problems that we were talking about, investing for the short term reliance on Dem fees, insulation from liability. If we can change those incentives through regulations at the federal, state, and local level, we can turn private equity firms into a much more productive part of our economy. And

1 (26m 57s):
Americans love regulation and usually private equity, these big firms, they have to do what we think is right. So I think you've solved it. Brendan. Ballou, the book is plunder and there is some interesting stuff in there about private equity actually liking regulation. Brendan points out Isabel Angell produced and Matt Collette edited today's show. Laura Bullard Fact checked it and Patrick Boyd engineered it. I'm Noel King. This has been today explained.