0 (1s):
It's today explained. I'm Alana Casanova Burgess filling in as host on this Super Tuesday elections everywhere in the US all at once. This could be Nikki Haley's last stand and folks are mad at Biden about his support of Israel's war in Gaza. But we'll start with the Senate race in California. This

2 (21s):
Was a seat that was occupied since 1992 by Senator Diane Feinstein, who is, you know, was this legend of California politics, a real institution.

0 (30s):
This is Melanie Mason. She writes about California politics for Politico.

2 (34s):
Whoever gets this seat, it automatically catapults them to a new level of notoriety, a new level of prominence in the Democratic party.

0 (43s):
Israel is a major talking point for candidates in that race and it's shaking up primary contests across the country. More ahead on today explained

Stay Tuned with Preet (1m 0s):
If a hypothetical chatbot cajoles his human lover to break the law, what's our recourse when bad actors use DeepFakes to steal an election? What are our legal options? How can we use our legal system to shape the future of AI and protect us from harm? This is a stay tuned special series AI on trial. I'm Preet Bharara to unpack the legal issues raised by ai. I'm teaming up with technology expert Nita Farrah Honey. Hey Nita. Hi Preet. Each episode we'll work through details of a hypothetical case set in the near future. Subscribe to stay tuned with to listen episodes of AI on trial drop each Monday beginning in March, Super Tuesday, super Tuesday.

0 (1m 45s):
So there's a Senate primary today in California. There are a whopping 27 candidates on the ballot, but there are four big ones, three Democrats and one Republican. Melanie Mason from Politico. Can you give us a little bit about each of them and the case they're making as to why they should be the next senator from California? Do you wanna start with Congressman Adam Schiff from Burbank, or I guess as we've heard Trump call him

5 (2m 9s):
You little pencil, neck

2 (2m 13s):
Pencil, Nick Shifty Schiff. There's like so many nicknames and there's been nothing better for Adam Schiff than the fact that he has this antagonist in Trump. He

5 (2m 22s):
Buys the smallest shirt collar you can get and it's loose.

2 (2m 27s):
Adam Schiff has been a congressman representing the Los Angeles area since 2000, and he was seen as kind of a pretty establishment, fairly centrist democrat who had been on the House Intelligence Committee, had been involved mostly on sort of foreign affairs, national security side, and then the Trump impeachment comes and he became the main house manager for the first Trump impeachment and has become sort of a face of the resistance as it were to Former President Trump.

6 (2m 54s):
You can't trust this president to do the right thing. Not for one minute, not for one election, not for the sake of our country. You just can't. He will not change. And you know it

2 (3m 8s):
Between that and the January 6th committee really has sort of positioned himself nationally as somebody who would take on Donald Trump

7 (3m 16s):
When our democracy was in danger. He stood up, Adam Schiff took on a corrupt president. He fought to protect our values and the rule of

2 (3m 25s):
Law, he's not exactly like the flashiest candidate, but he has somehow become the celebrity candidate because he has such a national following, which in practical effect means that he has raised just gobs of money. And so he has been sort of the consistent front runner from the beginning in part because of this national profile and in part because he has more money than God.

0 (3m 46s):
All right, so Adam gobs of Money Schiff. Then we've got Katie Porter, right? She's congresswoman from Orange County and I'm picturing her with a whiteboard, right? That's how we know her.

2 (3m 56s):
That's how she would love for you to picture her because that's definitely been the branding that she has done. Congresswoman Porter got elected in 2018. She was part of that 2018 wave that was in reaction to the Trump presidency, and she is very infamous for having this whiteboard that she's used in congressional hearings to sort of take down CEOs or take down members of the Trump administration. Back then

8 (4m 18s):
CEOs will use tactics like Could you repeat the question? I'm sorry. I didn't catch all that. I couldn't follow all of the numbers you were throwing out there. I think the whiteboard helps prevent that. She's

2 (4m 29s):
A Former law professor, so she's incredibly good at distilling these bullet points of key information and making it very digestible. She was also seen as a pretty formidable candidate coming into this race because of that celebrity that she had and the fact that there were a lot of people who were quite loyal to her more assertive brand of politics.

0 (4m 48s):
And then you have Barbara Lee long serving congresswoman from Oakland sort of activist of the bunch.

2 (4m 55s):
Yes, and she really has kind of captured the longstanding admiration particularly of progressives because of this really fateful vote that she took back in 2001. In the aftermath of September 11th, she voted against the authorized use of Military Force Act, which is sort of what laid the groundwork for the war in Afghanistan, the war in Iraq, and she has really run on that.

9 (5m 16s):
I didn't quit when I refused to give the president completely unlimited war powers after September 11th and in the face of countless death threats, I was the only no vote. I didn't quit then and I won't quit Now.

2 (5m 32s):
Her problem is, is she just has not been able to raise many like the other two Democrats. So she's running against, so all of those compelling storylines, she doesn't really have the ability to communicate that to the voters.

0 (5m 42s):
Okay, so three Democrats won Republican in the race. Steve Garvey Former baseball player.

2 (5m 49s):
That's right. Former Dodger. Former Padre.

1 (5m 52s):
Deep right field way back, cut a van back to the it's gone home run Garvey and there will be tomorrow.

2 (6m 1s):
I used to have a Steve Garvey autographed glove as a kid, even though I actually, I was too young to ever see him play. But I mean that just goes to show like Steve Garvey, people know him in California. If you're a baseball fan, you know Steve Garvey, he is certainly kind of iconic in that sense, but this is his first time as a candidate and it shows, I mean he is running as this pretty squishy Republican who won't really take positions on really any issues at all. He, for example, voted for Trump twice, but won't say if he will vote for Trump again in this election,

10 (6m 36s):
I will look at the two opponents. I will determine what they did and at that time I will make my choice.

8 (6m 44s):
Well, California, I think what they say is true once a dodger always a dodger.

2 (6m 50s):
He also just really isn't running very much of a campaign. But for reasons that I'm sure we will get to, that doesn't matter because Adam Schiff, the Democrat, is sort of doing it for him and that has accrued his benefit a lot.

0 (7m 1s):
Okay, but this is a different kind of primary, right? This is not Democrats and Republicans are in different buckets. This is a free for all kind of. That's right.

2 (7m 11s):
So California in the last couple election cycles has adopted this top two primary, which means that it doesn't matter what party you're in, just the top two vote getters of the primary election will advance to the November general. So there is a possibility that you could have two Democrats Advance or a Democrat or Republican. The latest

11 (7m 31s):
Berkeley IGS poll has Republican Steve Garvey on top with 27% support among likely voters followed by Schiff with 25% Porter 19%, and Lee 8%.

2 (7m 43s):
Adam Schiff has consistently polled among the talk Democrats, but Steve Garvey, as the Republican has been moving up and up and up, it seems that he's really coalescing the Republican vote behind him. Katie Porter seems to be battling a little bit more to try and get into that, that second spot, and that's looking harder and harder for her to do. And then Congresswoman Lee has just consistently not really been able to pull above double digits.

0 (8m 10s):
You mentioned earlier that Schiff has been sort of promoting Garvey.

2 (8m 13s):
Yeah, so because Schiff has so much money that he can spend, he basically has money to run two campaigns. So he's running his own campaign where he has advertisement, that's his own bio, his own sort of positive vision, talking about what he would do as Senate, and then he's running this other set of ads that technically are anti Garvey ads,

12 (8m 32s):
Two leading candidates for Senate, two very different visions for California. Steve Garvey, the leading Republican is too conservative for California. He voted for Trump twice and supported Republicans for years, including far right conservatives.

2 (8m 47s):
There are millions of Republicans in this state, but the reality is is looking ahead in a state as blue as California a shift, Garvey matchup almost virtually ensurers that Schiff would be the next senator from California. We don't obviously make a hundred percent predictions, but the math would be extremely difficult for Steve Garvey going forward.

0 (9m 5s):
So we've gotta essentially shift the Trump antagonist, Katie Porter, the explainer, Barbara Lee, the activist, and among them are we seeing any actual policy differences or just vibes? I'd

2 (9m 16s):
Say mostly vibes. I think there's two areas that have emerged as a point of difference, and one of them I will say I did not have on my bingo card going into this race, and this was a question of earmarks. Haiti Porter has really put her foot down. Earmarks

8 (9m 28s):
Are about inviting corruption, conflicts of interest and rewarding people's donors.

2 (9m 33s):
The other two Democrats say, of course we need earmarks. Earmarks are ways that we can pay for housing programs or our homelessness programs in our communities. The other issue where there is some genuine policy differentials and I think does reflect a larger conversation, is about the Israel Hamoth war. As soon as Hamas' attack on Israel happened on October 7th, Congresswoman Lee who remember is this anti-war activist, has sort of been a hero in the party because of that. Immediately came out literally the next day came out and called for an immediate ceasefire.

9 (10m 4s):
The only way Israel is going to be secure is through a permanent ceasefire. The only way that is gonna happen is with a political and diplomatic solution.

2 (10m 15s):
And she had really put a marker down early, I would say much earlier than most of the progressives in her party, who very quickly I think coalesced around this ceasefire idea or this ceasefire concept as something to rally around. Congressman Adam Schiff on the other side has been sort of steadfast in, in not calling for a ceasefire. I

6 (10m 33s):
Dunno how you can ask any nation to ceasefire when their people are being held by a terrorist organization.

2 (10m 37s):
Katie Porter has sort of found herself a little bit in the mushy middle. So

8 (10m 40s):
I've called for a release for all the hostages resources to rebuild Gaza, making sure Israel is secure and a free state for Palestinians where they can thrive.

2 (10m 50s):
But just the fact that she sort of put herself in this, in this middle ground position so that she could say that she supported some form of ceasefire, I think in a way symbolizes Democrats or at least some Democrats growing concerns about how Israel is conducting this military operation. And a sense that there is a real uneasiness out there and increasing their pressure, calling for some form of ceasefire is a way to do that. I think that there are people who feel very, very strongly about this issue, just as we've seen across the country. There are people who come out and protest. There are people who say that this will be a determinative issue. But I think that if we're talking more broadly about the electorate as a whole, I don't think that this is necessarily an issue that is determining what people's vote is going to be.

2 (11m 37s):
And so I think for the people who who care very deeply, it might be that single determining factor, but I do not think that's the case for the majority of voters.

0 (11m 56s):
Melanie mason politico.com. A lot of voters might not be deciding based on Israel, but that's not stopping interest groups from pouring money into competitive primaries. How that's reshaping this year's election ahead on today. Explained

Quince (12m 16s):
Support for the program today comes from Quince. Are you ready to upgrade your wardrobe for the spring season? If so, Quince has got you covered with timeless essentials that you'll want to wear again and again. Plus, Quince says they work only with factories that use safe, ethical, and responsible manufacturing practices. I've never worked with a factory, but maybe Sarah Frank on the Vox team has. What I really like about Quince is how high quality the pieces are for the price. I ordered the organic heavyweight boyfriend sweatpants, which are super thick and fleecy with deep pockets and I know I'll be staying cozy, warm, wearing these at home. You can indulge in affordable luxury by going to Quince dot com slash explained for free shipping on your order and 365 day returns. That's Q-U-I-N-C e.com/explained to get free shipping and 365 day returns. Quince dot com slash explained

Shopify (13m 20s):
Support for today explained comes from Shopify. If medieval individuals had access to the internet, at least one of them would figure out the benefits of e-commerce and the rest might shun them for witchcraft. Luckily, the year is 2024 and anyone can actually make a living selling stuff online. You can start your own yeee old online shop with Shopify. You can sign up for a $1 month trial period at Shopify dot com slash explained. It's all lowercase. You can go to Shopify dot com slash explained now to grow your business no matter what stage you are in Shopify dot com slash explained businesses that Grow, grow with ye Old Shopify. Deal with it.

Noom (14m 22s):
Support for the program today comes from Noom who would like to remind you that your body is like no one else's. Your body is a snowflake and they wanna help you with your snowflake according to Noom. They build a plan specifically for you based around psychology and biology even helping you understand why you might crave that one specific food at the same time every day. I've never craved the same food at the same time every day, but maybe Vox is. Sarah Frank has Using Noom. I liked how easy it was to get set up and I liked their super friendly features that allowed me to track and input my workouts, goals, moods, and stress levels every day. You can stay focused on what's important to you with Noom psychology and biology based approach. Sign up for your trial today at Noom dot com. That's NOO m.com. Explained 2024, explained

0 (15m 27s):
Today, explained is back, I'm Alana Casanova. Burgess Ross Barkin writes about politics for the New York Times magazine and other places. Lately he's been looking at the fracture in the Democratic party over Israel and Palestine

17 (15m 41s):
For the last few decades. It was almost impossible to find a Democrat who was willing to criticize the actions of the Israeli government in any way. That consensus has only started to erode in the last few years. You've seen the rise of a new younger left. You've seen Democrats enter Congress like Ilhan Omar, like Rashida tb, like Summer Lee, like Jamal Bowman who are willing to criticize the Israeli government.

17 (16m 23s):
Most of those politicians are in the squad. The squad is now around eight Democrats. The squad didn't exist at all until 2019. So that's important to keep in mind. You have a very different political dynamic today than you did a decade ago or 20 years ago and that is definitely playing into what you see today. And you've also seen a strengthening of the pro-Israel lobby apec, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee has always been very powerful, but in recent years it started to play a a much more significant role in primaries.

17 (17m 5s):
And another organization that's related Democratic majority for Israel has been in particular focusing on Democratic primaries

18 (17m 13s):
This election. APAC is expected to spend approximately $100 million just to try to unseat progressive members of Congress who dare to speak out about what's going on in Goss.

17 (17m 27s):
APEC and DMFI who are separate. There is a difference Democratic majority for Israel only endorses Democrats. APEC on the other hand, is long funded Republicans and pro-Israel Democrats and they have no problem giving money to Trump Republicans Democratic majority of Israel draws the line at that. But when it comes to Democratic primaries, the two are completely aligned in that they each want to defeat, crush, eliminate the progressive Israel skeptical left.

0 (18m 2s):
So you mentioned apac, you mentioned the Democratic majority for Israel. How are they participating in these primaries in ways that maybe we haven't seen them do that before?

17 (18m 15s):
They are spending and will spend enormous sums of money in Democratic congressional primaries That is new. Democratic majority for Israel really came on the scene around 2022 when they spent a lot of money to defeat Nina Turner, who was a high level member of Bernie Sanders campaign a a Former state senator who's running for congressional seat in Ohio. The

19 (18m 43s):
American Israel Public Affairs Committee has inserted its way into many Democratic primaries over the past couple of years, specifically targeting progressive candidates such as myself. I still got the battle scars y'all.

17 (18m 58s):
They spent heavily against her in favor of her opponent who won the race, Chantelle Brown. Typically what APEC would do was donate money in general elections to both parties to keep a kind of consensus. They're still doing bipartisan donations, but their focus has changed from keeping Republicans and certain Democrats in the pro-Israel fold and the Israel Hawk fold to really coming hard against this Israel skeptical or even politicians who are willing to lightly criticize Israel. There's a few policy positions that APEC and DMFI particularly revile.

17 (19m 44s):
One is conditioning military aids Israel. This is something that has become increasingly accepted on the progressive left that if the US is going to continue to fund Israel, it can't be a blank check in 2022, Andy Levin, who is a Jewish Zionist in favor of two state solution, also progressive, he was the president of a synagogue. Someone who traveled to Israel many times, who believed fully in the project of Zionism. He was pushing legislation to condition military aids. Israel

20 (20m 23s):
APAC can't stand the idea that I am the clearest, strongest Jewish voice in Congress standing for a simple proposition that there's no way to have a secure Democratic homeland for the Jewish people unless we achieve the political and human rights of the Palestinian people.

17 (20m 42s):
Eve heck opposed him furiously and he lost his reelection to Haley Stevens, who is still in Congress and who is an unflinching supporter of Israel.

0 (20m 54s):
Can you talk about what the APAC spending and the DMFI spending result in like attack ads or those ads actually mentioning Israel. They

17 (21m 3s):
Will run ads that have nothing to do with Israel and they'll attack politicians based on whatever their polling says, make some most vulnerable. For example, in California they're targeting a state senator Dave Min, who's running for Katie Porter's open house seat and they're attacking him over a drunk driving incident. Not over any alleged insufficient support of Israel.

21 (21m 31s):
Dave Minn wants your trust, but Minh was arrested for drunk driving, putting us all at risk. Min

17 (21m 37s):
More voters in California will care about Dave Min driving drunk than Dave supposedly not supporting Israel enough. And that is often the approach they take and there's a reason they do it. It's an approach that usually works.

0 (21m 54s):
What about the other side? Like are there groups more critical of Israel also getting involved in primary campaign spending?

17 (22m 4s):
To an extent, but they just have a lot less money. So the traditional player has been J Street, but they are somewhat marginalized in this moment. J Street is something of the liberal counter to apec. They are Zionists, they are supportive Israel, but they're willing to criticize. The Israeli government criticize Benjamin Netanyahu and they endorse candidates who take those positions. But J Street Unendorsed, Jamal Bowman and they're not helping the squad members in the APEC DMFI onslaught.

17 (22m 46s):
So J Street is not really in play here. Jewish Voice for Peace is trying to be more involved. They are a growing and very professionalized anti, anti-Zionist organization that is behind a lot of the big attention grabbing protests. You see like the occupation of the Statue of Liberty or Grand Central Station here

22 (23m 9s):
At home and almost surreal scene inside Grand Central terminal tonight as hundreds of demonstrators took over the place calling for a ceasefire in the war,

15 (23m 21s):
Sunny, now

17 (23m 23s):
They have a political action arm that they use to endorse candidates. They will be volunteering, they'll probably be sending some money there. But on a much, much smaller scale, there's DSA Democratic Socialists in America, you know, in some of these congressional races. DSA could be in play. Again, DSA is a volunteer run organization. So it it, it's about people showing up, but it's not about spending millions of dollars on television ads.

0 (23m 55s):
What does this mean for the Democratic party? And, and not just in like the political sense, but in the kinds of policies that we see that party support. We've had this progressive movement of more congress people on the left could this end that

17 (24m 15s):
On one hand the squad could shrink the spending against them could be successful and other Democrats could be even more terrified of crossing APEC in the future. And you could see this Israel skeptical left start to shrink. On the other hand, if you look at the actual number of young people, especially who are starting to vote, who are engaging on this, the Israel skeptical faction is only growing. And, and, and this is something I think even the most staunch Israel supporters recognize, and what they fear is that the old consensus is starting to crumble. I would say my most bold prediction, which could turn out to be wrong, but I'll make it here, is that Joe Biden will be the last Democratic president for some time who offers mostly unconditional support for the Israeli government.

17 (25m 9s):
I think that is going to be increasingly untenable unless the politics in Israel start to change. Israel is governed by a conservative right wing majority, and it's no secret that Benjamin Netanyahu is holding on in the hopes that Donald Trump is elected president again. Because Trump and Netanyahu align on politics, they have the same vision for the future of Israel. And Netanyahu would like to see someone like Joe Biden lose. So while I think today and tomorrow, APEC can keep winning and blow squad members out of the water and spend money on the left, at least none of this is going to hold in the same way because the politics of these two countries are going to diverge.

0 (26m 16s):
That's Ross Barkin. Check out his Substack political currents. Today's show was produced by Aisha Artsy, edited by Matt Collette fact, checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd. I'm Alana Cassanova Bridges and this is today explained.