1 (0s):
Before we start the show quick note about rise.com. It's an all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage you create training from scratch or customized hundreds of pre-built lesson, templates and Sample courses to build training even faster Learners love rides because training is beautiful interactive managers love it because training is simple to create distribute and analyze and it loves rise because it's completely secure see why you will love rides. By starting a free 30-day trial at rise.com

3 (34s):
today.

1 (36s):
First it feels good. Like when your first year the latest summer anthem. And first to share it with your friends who know you're always first to everything. Well, here's a new first for you Samsung Galaxy 5G. Yes. 5G Now on Galaxy helping you be one of the first on 5G so you can be first to even more like streaming with virtually no lag so you can be first to tell your friends what show to watch. Yes. Another first. They'll think Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy S 25 G and a 71 5G feels good to be free. With Samsung 5G seeds very and require Optical networking connections factors include frequency bandwidth congestion see carrier for availability.

1 (1m 43s):
When you got a fire someone Friday's today the weekends around the corner people aren't thinking about work. No one has to deal with the Fallout for a few days in politics. You have the added advantage of avoiding. Lots of news coverage. That's why they call it a Friday news dump. The Trump Administration has been dumping a lot of people lately. But this past Friday it didn't go according to plan because the person they tried to fire refused to leave

3 (2m 7s):
and it was pretty messy what went down over the weekend at the US attorney's office of the southern district of New

1 (2m 13s):
York. And this us attorney's office is particularly important.

3 (2m 18s):
So this is the office that oversees Manhattan. It's been often. Referred to somewhat self importantly perhaps as The Sovereign District of New York. They have a very lofty view of their own independence and in this Administration in particular they do over see a lot of cases Trump being from New York. Of course that have to do with

1 (2m 43s):
Trump now President Trump has fired the person in charge of this office before you might remember in preet bharara and Obama appointee, but this time around it was a trump Administration appointee.

3 (2m 54s):
Being fired. There's an attempt not only to get rid of the US attorney for the southern district of New York Jeffrey Berman, but also to Institute a temporary replacement for him and to nominate a new replacement for it and basically all comes together to look like Trump and bar wanted this guy gone as quickly as possible.

1 (3m 19s):
Andrew Prokop is back from paternity leave just in time to help us understand why We started with the guy Trump and bar wanted to fire Jeffrey

3 (3m 27s):
Berman Jeffrey Berman. He was never officially confirmed by the Senate to this job, but he was Trump's pick and he ended up being appointed to the job on an acting basis in 2018. And then a bunch of Judges confirmed him to fill the post as long as he wanted to and so he's been in charge since early 2018.

1 (3m 50s):
We will not hesitate to investigate and prosecute those who engage in Will conduct that draws into question the Integrity of our political process.

3 (3m 59s):
So he's overseeing stuff like the Michael Cohen investigation though. Technically he was recused from any involvement in that one. He's overseen more recently the indictment of those two Close Associates of Rudy Giuliani left Parnassus and Igor Freeman who were involved in that whole Ukraine Caper and he's you know, overseeing a bunch of other politically charged cases that have to do with New York to the Trump inauguration committee the money around that sdn why I was investigating and there's all sorts of other stuff from Jeffrey Epstein to Deutsche Bank.

1 (4m 40s):
Why try and fire him what's Berman's relationship been like with the Trump Administration since he was appointed.

3 (4m 48s):
He did appear to be a republican in good standing and trusted by The original Trump justice department now

1 (4m 57s):
before Jeffrey bourbon took his position here. He actually donated $5,400 to the Trump campaign in 2016 and even served on the Trump transition team, but

3 (5m 7s):
Trump has been annoyed with him since the Cohen investigation. Basically, he has reportedly complained in private about wanting Berman gone about what Berman's doing, you know, similar stuff to what we would hear before Trump fired James Comey. Me while Trump was angry at former Attorney General Jeff sessions for recusing himself.

1 (5m 31s):
When these

3 (5m 33s):
people in investigatory positions do things that end up harming Donald Trump politically because they're trying to enforce the rule of law. Donald Trump tends to get angry at them and want them gone. So that's the backdrop for what happened this past weekend.

1 (5m 55s):
So on Friday Bill

3 (5m 57s):
bar met with us attorney Jeffrey Berman in New York and bar reportedly asked him to resign or

1 (6m 7s):
at least broached the possibility that

3 (6m 10s):
he might appoint someone else to his position. There's a bit of a he said he said about what happened in this conversation exactly, but it apparently didn't end with any concrete.

1 (6m 24s):
Uh nor agreement then a few hours later a little after nine

3 (6m 29s):
o'clock p.m. Eastern time attorney general bar issued a

1 (6m 33s):
statement the statement announced that President Trump would

3 (6m 36s):
nominate Jay Clayton who's currently the chairman of the

1 (6m 40s):
Securities and Exchange Commission to be the new

3 (6m 43s):
US attorney for the southern district of New York.

1 (6m 46s):
The release also said that Jeffrey Berman would be stepping down on July 3rd and Until Clayton gets confirmed by the Senate Berman would be replaced by

3 (6m 59s):
a guy named Craig karpen Ito who is currently the US attorney for New Jersey and that's what

1 (7m 4s):
looked weird to people from the

2 (7m 6s):
start.

3 (7m 8s):
Why is that weird? Well ordinarily what you do if you want a new US attorney for a certain district is you nominate someone and that person will get confirmed and then they would take the job or if someone has to leave the job before their replacement is confirmed then their Deputy could take over what's not usually done is to reach all the way outside the southern district of New York grab some other political appointee in another district and slap them in there just temporarily to take control of things. I'll show the previous guy out the door while waiting for the new permanent guy to be confirmed.

1 (7m 53s):
So, how does Berman I doubt that he's being replaced officially Berman

3 (7m 57s):
found out by that press release and he seems to have been a bit taken aback by

1 (8m 4s):
this because a little less than

3 (8m 6s):
two hours after bar

1 (8m 9s):
released his statement Berman released his own statement. He said I learned in a press release from the attorney general tonight that I was stepping down as United States Attorney. I have not resigned and have no intention of resigning. He said he intends to ensure that this offices important cases continue unimpeded and he said that he would step down only once

3 (8m 31s):
a presidential e appointed nominee for his job is confirmed by

1 (8m 35s):
the Senate. So he's basically saying hold on. I'm actually not going anywhere and he is implying in his references to ensuring that the investigations. He's overseeing

3 (8m 49s):
continue unimpeded. He's

1 (8m 50s):
implying that this may be part of an effort to impede these investigations That's where we left things on Friday night. And then Berman when into the office on Saturday, so then on Saturday afternoon bar released a new statement. He said that Berman had chosen public spectacle over public service and because you have declared that you have no intention of resigning I have asked the president to remove you as of today and he has done so so basically you're fired bar also said though in this letter that he Ditch the plan to bring in the US

3 (9m 31s):
attorney for New Jersey to take over the district. He says that now Berman will in

1 (9m 37s):
fact be succeeded by

3 (9m 39s):
the person who would ordinarily succeed him the

1 (9m 42s):
deputy us attorney of the southern district of New York, Audrey Strauss. Okay, so far meets with Berman on Friday a few hours later. Bar says Berman's resigning even later Friday night. Berman says no, I'm not then bar calls up his boss on Saturday. And as President Trump make it official that he's firing

3 (10m 5s):
Berman. Anyway, well, what's weird about this is that on Saturday afternoon around the time that bar had released that statement saying that Trump has ordered Berman fired at his request Trump seems

1 (10m 19s):
To dispute that bar is working on that that his Department not my department, but we have a very capable attorney general. So that's really up there. I'm not involved and this is

3 (10m 34s):
a refrain we've seen frequently from President Trump when it comes to actions that bill bar has been taking at the justice department. He wants to make it clear perhaps because he got in so much. Much trouble with potential obstruction of justice related to the molar report that he is not involved in any of this. This is just what Bill bar is choosing to do whether that's actually true. We don't know

1 (11m 5s):
this just feels so strange if the idea of a Friday night firing is to avoid news coverage and brush the whole thing under a rug. I mean, he really face planted here how much of this went according to attorney general bars

3 (11m 19s):
plan. Basically, none of it and it's not entirely clear what he expected would happen in a late Friday night Purge of the head of the most famous US attorney's office in the country who is investigating all sorts of politically Frost matters, but clearly the idea to do this Switcheroo had to fall apart due to Berman's Defiance and the general public outrage around all this.

1 (11m 53s):
The real unanswered question here is why did the president and mr. Barr do it? No reason was given why? Mr. Berman was fired was he fired because of criminal investigations. He was conducting into mr. Trump or his associates. Well, that's one of the big Mysteries here. Why was it so important for

3 (12m 17s):
Bill bar to get Berman out of

1 (12m 19s):
there? Quickly, there's been a lot of speculation on that what the southern district of New York might have been

3 (12m 25s):
doing coated have involved that investigation

1 (12m 29s):
into Rudy giuliani's Associates and also into Rudy Giuliani himself. We haven't heard much about that lately, but the prosecutors have said they want to bring more charges in that case. Could it have involved the Trump inauguration investigations?

3 (12m 47s):
We haven't heard much about that in a

1 (12m 49s):
while or All sorts of other things, but we don't really have a lot of answers on that Berman. He knows what his office has been doing he has been invited to testify to the house Judiciary Committee on Wednesday, but it's unclear if he will appear there, but stay tuned for more on that. He said Andrew here comes a quick break. Just because you're staying at home. It doesn't mean you don't have to brush your teeth and quip has your back when it comes to brushing your teeth.

1 (13m 33s):
They deliver you all the Oral Care Essentials, you need to brush and floss better and they'll send it right to you on a dentist recommended schedule of every three months and just like so many other aspects of our life. It'll just be delivered right to your door these day so check out the clip electric toothbrush right now. You get all that quick brush head toothpaste and floss refills for just five bucks. Each and shipping is free. You can join over 3 million happy customers who are practicing good Oral Care easily and affordably and right now it's even more affordable. If you go to get clipped.com explained you'll get your first refill for free.

1 (14m 16s):
That's your first refill free at get clipped.com explain the explained, uh, not Justice. explain but explained GT Q UI p.com expl AI NE d Using Straight explain because you value reliable timely news coverage and there's a new place you can get it. It's called 60 in six and you can find it on quippy. It's the award winning journalism from the team that brought you 60 Minutes on CBS except in just six minutes the latest episode Chronicles the story of Andrew Stewart Alfred Chestnut a ransom Watkins 3, Baltimore men who were sent to prison for a crime.

1 (15m 1s):
They didn't commit as Seems they were wrongfully convicted of murder and spent 36 years behind bars before finally being exonerated and released this year now in their 50s, they no longer recognize the world they grew up and you can watch as Pulitzer prize-winning journalist Wesley Lowery uncovers their journey to Justice 60 + 6 is weakly unclear be the brand new streaming app featuring short form original shows made to fit your time. That's spelled Q UI b i i be download the quippy app now for a two week free trial.

1 (15m 42s):
Today today is in to help us understand how big a deal this firing was because it's not the first time it's not the 40th time preet. Bharara was fired from the same pose James Comey comes to mind. Why is this one significant? Other than the

3 (15m 60s):
hot mess? Yeah. It's a pretty big mess and it is just the latest example of how president Seems to only want people in these jobs who will turn a blind eye to any wrongdoing of the president or any of his associates and US attorneys in general firing them is something that has been frowned upon back in the second term of the George W Bush Administration. He and Karl Rove decided to try and push out several us attorneys who weren't pursuing certain. Cases that the Bush Administration may have wanted them to pursue like Prosecuting Democrats or going after supposed voter fraud and so on and this became a major Scandal just because it was considered.

3 (16m 49s):
So unusual to fire your own us attorney who yourself appointed because traditionally what a president does is they appoint their us attorney's and then it's sort of hands off they get to run their own show more or less as they say. See fit when it comes to criminal prosecutions. And when the Bush Administration did try to meddle with this a little bit it blew up in their face became a major Scandal led to the ouster of the Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. So yeah, it's generally considered that you should not be doing this that it looks highly weird to fire any us attorney.

3 (17m 33s):
Suddenly, especially one that you yourself. I've appointed and especially one that has been overseeing investigations implicating your Associates.

1 (17m 44s):
And how much of this is coming directly from President Trump. And how much of it is coming from William by the Attorney General. Do we have any

3 (17m 52s):
idea that is one of the big mysteries in all of this? Because you know, this isn't just Jeffrey Berman and the southern district of New York that we're talking about a similar episode unfolded earlier this year in the US attorney's office for The District of Columbia that is the office that had been overseeing a lot of the prosecution's brought by former special counsel Robert Mueller Steam and the president and attorney general bar evidently were very unhappy with how some of those prosecutions had been going. Most notably with regards to Michael Flynn the former National Security adviser and Roger Stone Trump's longtime political advisor Flynn.

3 (18m 37s):
Plead guilty and stone was convicted at trial but then there were late interventions from bar into the US attorney's office for DC to give a weaker sentencing recommendation for stone and then eventually to try and have the case against Michael Flynn withdrawn entirely. That was a while ago not to say it's okay, but

1 (19m 4s):
is it strange to try to remove someone in this high? Profile of position. So close

3 (19m 9s):
to an election guess traditionally. The second term is when you rotate at your personnel bring in new people. It would have been pretty natural to do this at the start of the second term doing it near the end of a president's first term is a little weird, you know showing somebody the door who's been there for a couple of years and had no intention on leaving. Yeah. It raises eyebrows. It seems odd. And there have been other rather sudden now stirs not in the justice department, but in other agencies of the inspectors General, it's their job basically to investigate malfeasance or misconduct during their own agency.

3 (19m 53s):
And we've had the intelligence Community Inspector General defense department Inspector General Health and Human Services Inspector General of the state department Inspector General the transportation department Inspector General all pushed out. Many of them pushed out in April and May late on Friday or Saturday nights. It's become a pattern of doing these now stirs over the weekend. They seemed a little shady and it's weird. And it leaves

2 (20m 25s):
us

1 (20m 27s):
with a government. That's just

3 (20m 29s):
far less accountable. Is that fair? Yeah, they're pushing out systematically people who investigators or prosecutors who have shown Independence who have shown a willingness to pursue investigations that the president doesn't like or that might result in bad headlines for the president and it seems to have been Bill bars project and the Trump White House is Project to make sure that a bunch of these people are ousted and the people who can be more trusted or relied upon politically get put in those jobs instead. That's the goal. At least. It didn't really work out that ladder way in the southern district of

2 (21m 12s):
New York. Andrew Prokop is a senior

1 (21m 23s):
correspondent tuvok's I'm Sean Rama's Forum since today explained. First it feels good. Like when you first get your hands on the latest sneaker drop. Yes. Well, here's a new first for you Samsung Galaxy 5G. Yes 5G now and Galaxy helping you be one of the first on 5G so you can be first to even more like being the first of your friends to post an 8K with the first 8K unboxing video of your new kicks.

1 (22m 4s):
Thinking man. First really looks good. Like really good Galaxy 5G now available on Galaxy as 25g feels good to be first with Samsung 5G speed ferry and require Optical networking connection factors include frequency bandwidth congestion see carrier for availability.