1 (4s):
When the U S and NATO allies decided not to send troops to Ukraine, they simultaneously decided to hit Russia with sanctions, the aim to strangle Vladimir Putin's economy and devastate the finances of his oligarch, friends and frenemies.

2 (20s):
We have purposely designed these sanctions to maximize a long-term impact on Russia and to minimize the impact on the United States and our allies

1 (30s):
In late June, the Biden administration announced get another round of sanctions banning among other things, the import of Russian gold into the U S if you're a glass half empty person, you might look at this and wonder after all these months are sanctions working. If you're a historian you might ask, have they ever coming up on today, explained the historian asks. And we asked the historian,

BalanceUS (1m 1s):
The Coca-Cola company, Keurig Dr. Pepper and PepsiCo are bringing consumers more choices with less sugar than ever before. In fact, nearly 60% of beverages sold, contained zero sugar. Visit balance us.org to learn more.

4 (1m 17s):
Obviously the pandemic caused a lot of anxiety for a lot of us. You're just sitting at home at your house and you're still anxious.

5 (1m 24s):
Can philosophy help us be less anxious?

4 (1m 27s):
You are the source of the anxiety, not the external world.

5 (1m 30s):
I'm Sean Ellie host of box conversations. And I want to tell you about our new series. The philosophers, each episode focuses on the ideas of a philosopher or school of thought from the past and explains why they still matter. Today. This month I talked to bestselling author, Ryan holiday about stoicism, a philosophy that has a ton of wisdom for us today.

4 (1m 52s):
The ability to actually be present. That's a form of happiness also.

5 (1m 58s):
So listen to the philosophers in the box conversations fee

1 (2m 14s):
It's today explained them to well, king sanctions are a way of fighting a war without fighting in a war.

6 (2m 20s):
They do really involve the actual use of force, or sometimes a threat, a force, but they don't necessarily have the same intensity, always as kinetic warfare.

1 (2m 30s):
That's Nick molder. He's an assistant professor of history at Cornell, and we talked to him back in February about his new book, the economic weapon, the rise of sanctions as a tool of modern more,

6 (2m 40s):
You have war or kinetic warfare as, as the most intense kind of use of force. You have attempts at persuasion or coercion that can be threats or message sending and sanctions are somewhere in between.

1 (2m 57s):
It says to understand how the U S uses sanctions. We need to go back a century.

6 (3m 6s):
It started happening about a hundred years ago during and after the first world war

7 (3m 14s):
A little bit over the brink into the boiling cauldron of war.

6 (3m 17s):
And at that time, that war was so terrible that involved trench warfare and enormous amounts of casualties on a scale that people weren't necessarily familiar with.

7 (3m 28s):
There are perhaps 10 million men that have this war and perhaps 100 million persons to whom death would be a blessing rights and American ambassador in Europe. And he adds the Hills about, but are not blown to pieces worse than the whole social structure and the intellectual and spiritual life of Europe.

6 (3m 48s):
And the thing they wanted to do most was to try and avoid a repetition of that war. And in order to stop countries from going toward, they needed something that was powerful, potentially as powerful as war itself, but that wouldn't be war itself. And that's kind of where sanctions come in. So in the war, they had used this instrument of policy of economic blockade, trying to weaken the adversary with deprivation, trying to cut off their access to exports and imports and income, money, goods, finance commodities, and that became the model for economic sanctions and the first organization that had the power to do that until you sanctions was the league of nations.

6 (4m 31s):
So the is predecessor to today's United nations.

1 (4m 37s):
When is the first time that we see sanctions like a blockade? You can't get food in or out. When is the first time we see it used and used in a way that you might say, okay, that worked. That's why we kept going with this.

6 (4m 50s):
So initially, because the use of blockade and world war one had been so severe in its effects on civilians, the hope of the people in the league of nations was that they could use the sanctions instrument as a pure threat so that you wouldn't actually have to implement it because they thought people still have this memory of how much hunger they were suffering from in the bore. No one in their right mind is going to actually risk any kind of political behavior that would prompt this instrument to be used against them. And the times that they used it successfully were in the 1920s. So there were two incidents, two small border wars in the Balkans. At that time, you could Slavia Albania and then Greece.

6 (5m 33s):
And in two cases, there, there was a border war that broke out. In the case of Greece. It actually had a very funny name. It was called the war of the stray dog.

1 (5m 42s):
Okay. Why?

6 (5m 44s):
I mean, I'll leave it to your imagination. How is straight dog can lead to a border war, but you know, very sort of small scale incidents, but they had a powder keg potential, right? They could set off another war after all the world war itself had started with the assassination of this Austrian Archduke Franz for, to not in 1914 and in the Balkans. So everyone was very worried that if you let these small wars rage, ultimately they're going to become a sort of spark and it's in their books and they're going to lead to a much bigger, great power conflict. So it was important to nip them in the bud quickly. And in two cases, first in 1921 against Yugoslavia, and then in 1925 against Greece in this war of the straight dog, the league of nations threatened to use sanctions if they didn't restrain themselves.

6 (6m 30s):
And both of those times that seemed to work and the situation was quickly, deescalated

1 (6m 35s):
Was anyone at the time making the case, like we're going to avoid trench warfare, we're going to avoid guys shooting at each other in an open field. But if we do this, we're going to be starving people to death. Was anyone saying that? Or,

6 (6m 46s):
Yeah. Yeah. So that was very explicitly the threat. And that's really one of the paradoxes of sanctions, particularly in this early period that they are meant as a deterrent. But in order to do that, the threat needs to be so total and severe that if the actual, you know, your bluff gets cold, you then have to do things that are very, very inhumane and you have to target civilians. And interestingly, at the time, there were also feminists, for example, who wrote to the league of nations and set things like women and children, they don't support war. They're not the ones who are pushing governments to go to war, but they are now being targeted. That's unfair. But then the sanctioning is the people who designed the sanction said, sorry about actually, they too need to suffer the consequences, or there's not going to be a kind of broad public opinion that is going to move towards peace in the country.

6 (7m 34s):
So you have to target people who they actually accepted for innocence. Otherwise this deterrence model doesn't work.

1 (7m 40s):
God, that's fascinating. I wonder what the backroom conversations were like when this is all being conceived of the idea that yeah, women and children are civilians normally where we're able to keep them out of the shooting until we can't, but, but sanctions affect everybody right away equally because everybody starves together a seven year old who wouldn't go out onto the battlefield is going to starve along with the 21 year old. Who would, wow. I want to ask you about when a shift started to happen. So sanctions were originally conceived as a way to keep peace on the European continent. And they did work to prevent war between smaller countries. When did that start to change?

6 (8m 18s):
Yeah, it began really to change when there was a massive economic crisis that was global, the great depression, and that began in the late 1920s. And it got much worse in the early 1930s. And one of the side effects of the great depression was that there was a very broad global turn towards nationalism. People who became much more distrustful, people become more fearful. They start to blame certain groups for economic collapse or for economic loss. And that also led to a number of countries to embark on a much more aggressive attempt to revise the territorial order, the international system that would be produced by world war one.

6 (8m 57s):
And those are countries like Mussolini's Italy, which was the first fascist regime, Nazi Germany, and also the military regime in Japan. And they were really intent on building their own empires on changing the borders, expanding their hold over territory and resources.

8 (9m 15s):
The one hand it is due Che in 15 years of power has made his people believe that at home, they are marching to a new prosperity and abroad. Italy is rebuilding the Roman empire.

6 (9m 23s):
And initially the sanction is tried to confront them with further threats of economic blockade. But when you confront a regime that's already ideologically quite radical and inclined towards nationalism. You actually, in this case in the 1930s, it turned out this didn't work to restrain them. It actually fed their anxieties that they had to act more aggressively, more quickly to secure those resources for their people. And at the time territorial conquest was still seen as a way that you could potentially become self-sufficient. So the, the real tragedy of the 1930s is that sanctions had worked in the previous decade, but precisely when they were used in the wake of the great depression, they ended up actually accelerating political and economic disintegration in the world

1 (10m 10s):
Because a country like Germany hears, we're going to blockade you. We're going to keep food from getting in. If you continue down this path, the path that led to world war II, and instead of getting scared in the right way, Germany gets scared in the wrong way. And it's like, we better go out and conquer some territory so that these blockades can't work. We need to be bigger and stronger.

6 (10m 31s):
Exactly. Yeah. Scared being scared in the right way. I think that's a great way to put it.

1 (10m 35s):
So back in the 1930s and forties, the United States is not part of the league of nations. It's not part of the group that generally puts the sanction pressure on was the U S itself using sanctions at all as a threat.

6 (10m 48s):
They were not part of it for a large part of this period. They were very much kind of torn internally the United States. So there are people who are internationalists who think the United States should become a member of all these international organizations that it should do much more to try and maintain world peace. And then there's a very big group of Americans in the twenties and thirties who actually think no, that actually gets the United States involved in these emphasis foreign wars. That's the old world where a new, a new country, a young country. We don't want to have anything to do with that. And if you start with sanctions, it will escalate to war. So let's not be part of any of this, but of course in the thirties, you do get all of these regimes, very radical regimes, nationalist regimes that begin to challenge the status quo in very dangerous ways.

6 (11m 37s):
And ultimately Roosevelt the president, FDR, he does begin to use economic sanctions because he realizes that the United States actually has quite a lot of levers that it can pool. So this is kind of interesting because at that time, particularly in the late thirties, early forties example, the United States is the world's largest oil producer. And it has the power to stop oil suppliers to all of these other countries. And some countries are actually very dependent on American oil supplies. So America is kind of like Saudi Arabia. At that point, it can stop the tankers from going across the ocean and that potentially can bring the economies of other societies to Holt. And in 1940 and 1941, they actually twice use this.

6 (12m 21s):
Once they use it against Spain where the Spanish that they're under this dictator, Francisco Franco, and he's kind of tempted to side with the fascists and at the right moment, Roosevelt actually withholds oil from Spain and Frankel realizes, oh, this is going to turn out badly. We're totally dependent on the U S and he actually also does not join the war. He remains neutral for the entire duration of world war II. So there again, it ends up working, but one year later, the United States tries the same thing against Japan. And in the summer of 1941 together with Britain and the Netherlands, they impose this big oil embargo on the Japanese economy and Japan is an island.

6 (13m 4s):
It has no oil. It's totally dependent on overseas supplies. And the Japanese respond by this by realizing, okay, well, we need to now conquer resources by force. We have to take over most of Southeast Asia, if we want to remain self-sufficient and keep our economy running. And this is one of the things that make mixed Japan attack the U S at Pearl Harbor. So sanctions actually drag the United States into the Pacific war in the second half of 1941.

9 (13m 31s):
Wow.

10 (13m 33s):
December 7th, 1941, a date which will live in infamy United States of America was suddenly and deliberately attacked by Naval forces of the empire of Japan.

11 (14m 7s):
And I'm Alex Heath, we're hosting land of the giants, a podcast about the biggest tech companies of our time. This season Metta, formerly known as Facebook. It's a company in a particularly controversial and vulnerable moment. Mark Zuckerberg is placing a multi-billion dollar bet towards an imagined metaverse future. Meanwhile, the rest of us are still grappling with what he's already built

9 (14m 31s):
This season. We're going to talk to the executive steering Meadows, biggest decisions, and you'll hear from some of Meta's sharpest critics. It's former employees

11 (14m 40s):
We'll explore wise. Zuckerberg is taking the company in a bold direction and how Facebook's past will inform its future

9 (14m 47s):
Land of the giants. The Facebook meta disruption from Recode, the verge and the Vox media podcast network. This season is sponsored by Klaviyo,

11 (14m 56s):
Subscribe for free wherever you listen and get our first episode on Wednesday, July 13th,

Shopify (15m 5s):
If you're someone who sells things online, you need a commerce platform to make it easy to sell things online. Shopify is the go-to choice for millions of businesses. Shopify guys, all in one commerce platform includes everything you need to start, run and grow your business. Whatever you're selling Shopify is finally giving entrepreneurs and startups the same set of resources that used to be reserved for big companies. So businesses of all sizes can finally sell everywhere, sync up online and in-person sales and keep an eye on the data that matters to them. Go to shopify.com/explained all lowercase for a free 14 day trial, and you'll get full access to Shopify as entire suite of features grow your business with Shopify today. shopify.com/explained shopify.com/explained

11 (16m 6s):
We're back with Nick molder. So even those sanctions helped get us into a war. The U S decided to keep using them at first, in a limited way,

6 (16m 15s):
In general, the United States kind of avoids using sanctions in that very big, comprehensive, provocative way that got them into one or two, but they do keep that lesson of what went wrong with Japan somewhat in mind, because they never actually, for much of the cold war imposed sanctions against the large industrial states, they in the cold war as the United States is fighting the Soviet union and or competing with the Soviet union rather and competing with communist China. They don't use sanctions that are as severe. They never cut off all oil supplies or anything like that. And it wouldn't have really worked because the Soviet union itself has enough of those resources. It's a very large country, right? It controls one sixth of the Earth's surface.

6 (16m 57s):
So for most of the cold war, so the 1950s, sixties, seventies, eighties, the United States ends up using sanctions mainly against small countries. The embargo against Cuba. That's kind of a good example of this sort of sanctions the United States has been using in the last half century. So Cuba it's very interdependence. It used to be at least very interdependent with the United States economy. And the embargo against Cuba is a pretty severe imposition on their economy. And there's a few other cases North Korea, for example, because there's the Korean war.

1 (17m 31s):
So you mentioned Cuba, you mentioned North Korea. Tell me some other places where the U S has used sanctions since the, let's say seventies, eighties, nineties, and the, the types of sanctions that we're seeing.

6 (17m 44s):
Yeah. So the United States in the seventies gets this extra kind of shorten the arm from the fact that there's a lot of things changing in the world economy. There's a new kind of wave of financial globalization that happens. And at the core of it is the us dollar. So it's the control over what becomes really the global reserve currency. That's very powerful. The United States can exploit this and much of international trade. And a lot of international banking happens through dollars. And at some point that means there's always some aspect of companies or banks as activity that happens in us jurisdiction. So the United States can use whatever that little leg that is in a us jurisdiction is to try and exert control over the transactions as a whole.

6 (18m 29s):
And so the use of the dollar since 1970s is really key to the way that the United States has used sanctions. And at first, for example, does this against Iran?

12 (18m 40s):
Good evening. The us embassy in Tehran has been invaded and occupied by Iranian students. The Americans inside had been taken prisoner and according to a student spokesman will be held as hostages.

6 (18m 51s):
So in 1979, there's a big revolution in Iran and the shot is overthrown. And the Islamic Republic under Khomeini comes to power. And immediately what the United States does is it freezes all of the assets about 11 or $12 billion of Iranian assets held in American banks. And that's something that you see quite a lot subsequently. So that oftentimes is now the way that the U S begins with an M a use of economic sanctions, but it's not the only way. Sometimes they can also target not just their reserves, but also their exports. So they try and prevent them from selling things. Abroad.

13 (19m 25s):
Opposition must be clear. I am ordering that. We discontinue purchasing of any oil from Iran for delivery to this country.

6 (19m 36s):
They drive down the amount of export earnings that those countries can have, and that puts them in difficult economic situations because they have to make really tough choices about how to distribute the resources that they do have

1 (19m 49s):
Off the top of your head. And I asked because you're an expert, can you list the countries that the U S has put sanctions on since the nineties?

6 (19m 58s):
I mean, there's probably too many, too many for me to accurately list, but since the nineties, I mean, it's a, it's a pretty big list. So some of the most important cases I think you would have are Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Venezuela, Bellaruse Yugoslavia, Ethiopia, and Eritrea. It's also put sanctions on Russia. There are certain technological restrictions against China, Myanmar, Syria recently. So yeah, it's a pretty, pretty long list.

1 (20m 28s):
And it seems worth pointing out that all of those countries you listed the vast majority of them, the United States has not necessarily gotten what it wanted from those countries.

6 (20m 38s):
Yeah. So in most cases, I think it's clear that if the goal of those sanctions was behavioral change, only a very small of them have worked, or they've worked only a little bit, but not actually fully. And yeah, I think that at the moment, what you see is that these sanctions are easy to impose. They're much more difficult to lift and when a government decides that it can risk or it can, you know, it will take its chances to try and write out the sanctions. Then it retrenches. They often try and at times try and ferment nationalism and make people rally around the flag. And then the conflict basically becomes kind of frozen. So there's no actual prospect that it's going to lead to better diplomatic relations, or that they're going to give up on this policy that the U S wants them to stop pursuing.

6 (21m 25s):
So in most cases now where I think many sanctions regimes have ended in a kind of impasse

14 (21m 30s):
Today, I'm announcing a series of measures that will continue to increase the cost on Russia and on those responsible for what is happening in Ukraine. First as authorized by the executive order, I signed two weeks ago, we are imposing sanctions on specific individuals, responsible for undermining the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and government of Ukraine.

1 (21m 53s):
Can you tell me about what happened in 2014 with Crimea and Russia, and then the U S sanctions that followed?

6 (21m 59s):
Yeah. So in 2014, this whole crisis that happened after the, my Don revolution and Ukraine led to Europe and the United States together imposing sanctions on Russia because Russia reacted to a new pro-Western government coming to power in Ukraine, and it took over the Crimea, it annexed the Crimean and occupied it, and it also helped separatists in these two regions in Eastern Ukraine. And that was a pretty big shock because there hadn't been a major kind of war or conflict like that in, in Europe, at least since the late nineties, since the Balkan wars and a lot of European countries realized that they had to try and do something to show Russia that you can't just take over territory, like the Crimea and an exit, right?

6 (22m 46s):
That's a breach of international law and it needs to be punished and you need to enforce the norm that you can't simply take territory. Otherwise we're back in the 1930s, so to speak.

1 (22m 58s):
That's interesting. So the us puts specific sanctions on Russia in 2014, and yet Russia continues doing what it wants to do. At least that's how it seems to me have the United States sanctions on Russia actually worked in any fashion.

6 (23m 14s):
So that kind of brings us back to this question of what's the goal. There are now some people who say the only goal of sanctions on Russia is simply to impose costs on Russia to weaken their economy. If that's your yardstick, then they have worked somewhat. It they've lowered the long run economic growth rate of the Russian economy. They've reduced the amount of money available for foreign investment living standards of ordinary Russians also have been stagnant and even slightly falling in the last decade. So if that's what you think the goal is, then they've worked. If you think, and I think this is the real goal that we are whole hoping for that Putin and the Russian government will change their behavior.

6 (23m 57s):
Then they've clearly not worked,

1 (23m 58s):
Right? I'm thinking of the countries you listed Russia, Syria, Venezuela, North Korea, all places where the us has not gotten what it's wanted in all of your months and years of research on this, have you thought of a more effective way than sanctions to handle conflicts? Like

6 (24m 14s):
I think in general, you can say that sanctions are very blunt instruments. And if they work, they tend to work very quickly. And sometimes they even work as a threat. So you don't even have to impose the middle, but if you do impose them and they don't work pretty quickly, then they end up actually worsening the conflict. So I think that in many cases, the United States should be much more open towards diplomacy and it goes striation. I think we need to think much more pragmatically about, can you actually reassure some of these countries that you're not putting them in front of an existential danger? Are they willing to somehow moderate their behavior in return for you lifting some sanctions as a concession? And the one reason why I am optimistic that if we try that we could do something with it is that that's actually the way that the sanctions against Iran have worked in the last decade.

6 (25m 3s):
So in Iran, the goal was to stop them from pursuing a nuclear weapon. And in 2015, Obama and Kerry negotiated this pretty, really a remarkable deal of pretty impressive diplomatic achievements. And they go international verification from the IAEA, the international atomic energy agency to verify if Iran was also stopping nuclear weapons development, and in return, the Iranians called sanctions lifting. And right now they're negotiating a new deal right after Trump withdrew from it. Biden is now trying to negotiate a re-entry into that deal. I think that's should be, definitely, can be a useful model for thinking about how to use sanctions and how to turn these ineffective long run policies into something more politically beneficial.

1 (25m 51s):
It's almost like if you go looking for peace, you find peace. If you do things aimed at peace, you will get bear.

6 (25m 59s):
Yeah. It's all about establishing trust. Yeah.

1 (26m 3s):
Nicholas molder, author of the book, the economic weapon, the rise of sanctions as a tool of modern war. Thank you so much for being with us

6 (26m 10s):
Today. Thank you.

1 (26m 16s):
Today's show was produced by Amina El Sati edited by Matthew Colette and Sean Rama's from engineered by a famous Shapiro and fact checked by Laura Bullard.