1 (4s):
It's Monday, March 30th, 2020 and the president is canceling his Easter plans. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained President Trump announced on Sunday that Americans should continue to avoid gathering in groups of 10 or more for at least another month and maybe until June that means avoid the office of void. This avoid bars and restaurants and traveling. It is a big reversal of his earlier assessment that the country will be back in Action by Easter that reversal came after Trump's medical advisers warned him that as many as 200,000 Americans could die as a result of this coronavirus with Millions potentially getting infected this morning.

1 (51s):
Dr. Deborah bricks the White House grown a virus response coordinator told the Today Show that those numbers were optimistic that if the United States does things Perfectly from here on out. We might get in the range of a hundred thousand to two hundred thousand deaths the latest numbers. We have are just over 2,500 deaths in the United States and almost a hundred and fifty thousand confirmed cases. It was just on Thursday that I told you the United States had crossed the 1,000 death Benchmark to give you an idea of how quickly the numbers are climbing but the numbers might not be climbing as fast as they wore in Seattle. Remember Seattle where where this was just so bad a few weeks ago. They think that containment strategies are starting to work.

1 (1m 33s):
Their people are staying home hospitals aren't overwhelmed and the numbers suggest the spread of the virus has slowed. I don't know if any of the Backstreet Boys live in Seattle, but there's a video of them singing I Want It That Way together from a distance using video conferencing circulating online right now and it's something that is an awful the song Still slaps and in one month, it'll be old enough to order a drink you can hit us with your coronavirus questions via email today. Explain it vox.com via Twitter and today underscore explained or at Aramis firm or give us a call and leave a message at 2 0 2 6 8 8 5 9 4 4 that's our listener voicemail line.

1 (2m 17s):
If you've got a business and right now, you're lucky enough to be thinking about how to make it better instead of like just how to survive netsuite by Oracle can help you it gives you a full picture of your business finance inventory HR customers and more all in one place. You can use it from work. You can use it from home or likely at this point any time anywhere you can use netsuite the number one Cloud business system apparently right now, you can get your product or and free guide Is to run a more profitable business at netsuite.com explained that sin ETSU ite.com explained.

2 (2m 59s):
This episode is brought to you by New Country Crock plant butter a dairy-free plant-based butter made with ingredients like olive oil avocado oil and almond oil you can substitute plant butter sticks for dairy butter in any of your favorite recipes because it tastes cooks and bakes just like butter. It's so delicious. Even butter lovers. Love it Country Crock plant butter is available at stores like Walmart Kroger to find a store near you visit Country Crock. dot-com plant

1 (3m 30s):
- butter maybe you've noticed we've been doing a lot of episodes about the coronavirus

2 (3m 47s):
like every day but

1 (3m 49s):
it's not just us. I'm willing to bet a lot of your favorite podcast have been covering this pandemic wall-to-wall our friends over at reset certainly have in case you're not familiar. It's a Vox podcast all about how technology is changing our world. But lately the show's been focused on the Science and Technology of this pandemic. And today we're going to bring you an example a great episode. Arielle and her crew just did on what the coronavirus does to your body. So the virus is basically a spiky ball those spikes that recognize and latch onto a protein called a stew which is found on the surface of our cells and like a key fitting into a lock.

1 (4m 30s):
That is the first step to launching an

2 (4m 33s):
infection Ed Yong is a science writer for the Atlantic who often writes about the microscopic world

1 (4m 39s):
when When we think about the catastrophe that the world is facing. I mean this tiny little moat with just the barest scrap of jeans has just brought the modern Global Order to its knees and that's kind of humbling. I

2 (4m 56s):
think Ed says there's still a lot that we don't know about stars covid to that's the name of the coronavirus that were up against but scientists have started to make a rough sketch of the viruses biology. So today on the show what? You know about how the virus Works inside our bodies this is reset. Ed young there are a lot of viruses that were familiar with and some of them we track regularly like the flu.

2 (5m 38s):
What about for Coronavirus has do we know a lot about them

1 (5m 41s):
we very much do not so flu is very familiar. So influenza viruses have been the cause of many pandemics in history and we have a very very established infrastructure for studying and combating them with coronavirus has it's entirely different. Research on to this group of viruses has been very Niche for a long period of time and partly that's because until this new one, so I was Covey to came along there were only six known coronavirus has that infect humans four of them are incredibly mild to they circulate around the world every winter and they cause maybe a third of cases of what we just call the common cold.

1 (6m 24s):
So just sniffles runny nose sore throat that kind of thing and for that reason few people study them the Other two saws & murmurs both cause much more severe diseases but caused outbreaks that were easier to contain.

2 (6m 40s):
What is up with this specific coronavirus? Why why is it so successful? Why is it so good at spreading and and infecting humans like do we actually know that

1 (6m 50s):
so I would say that we don't but I think based on what we know we can at least try and put together a plausible hypothesis. The thing that especially makes this virus hard is that it seems to have a long incubation time between first infecting a new person and then causing symptoms during which it seems to be able to transmit to a new host and specifically the reason why its capacity to spread before symptoms as bad as that it allows it to really move around the world and within a country.

1 (7m 31s):
Reba for people understand where it

2 (7m 33s):
is, but is there a specific reason why it is so good at infecting human specifically because this thing originated in animals, right?

1 (7m 43s):
You're right based on the structure of the virus. It seems that there are a few possible qualities that allow it to spread so easily. It seems to stick to ourselves more strongly and more readily and it seems to be able to infect Hours throughout a wider part of the Airways. So the virus is basically a spiky ball. So it's a ball with these proteins called Spike proteins on the surface those spikes that recognize and latch onto a protein called a stew which is found on the surface of our cells and like a key fitting into a lock.

1 (8m 31s):
That is the first step to launching an infection. This is also To the original Source virus did it had spikes which latched onto a stew but the specific shape of the spikes on this new virus of source Covey to those spikes are much better at latching onto a stew. They are a closer fit to the ace to protein what that means is that maybe it is easier for the virus to attach itself to our cells and maybe that might mean that it takes a a lower dose of virus to begin an infection again. This is all pretty speculative but it makes sense given the tight fit between those two molecules.

2 (9m 18s):
Okay. So the first thing is that this virus is better than previous. Coronavirus. Has it sticking to our cells. What's the second thing

1 (9m 25s):
right now? Then once once that first attachment is made the spike protein must be split into its two separate halves in order for the In to continue with the original sauce buyers that split did not happen very easily. But with this new virus, it can be done by an enzyme called furin which cuts the two halves apart and fear and notably is widespread. It's made by the human body and it's found in a lot of different types of tissues. And again that might be important for explaining some of the weird characteristics of this virus, like what Most risperidone three viruses tend to infect either the upper or the lower Airways.

1 (10m 14s):
Okay, if they infect the upper Airways they spread very easily, but they tend to cause mild illnesses like a you know, running nose or what have you if they in fact the lower Airways they tend to cause more severe illnesses like pneumonia, but they are also harder to spread. So I was Covey to seems to infect both sites and maybe That's because it relies on that widespread fear and enzyme and maybe that might explain some of it. It's sneakiness. Maybe it spreads easily when it infects the upper Airways before then moving to the lower ones to cause more severe illness.

2 (10m 60s):
It kind of sounds like it's like it's it's just very good at what it does. So what are the odds of that actually happening? What are the odds of having a coronavirus that is that has this particular combination of traits?

1 (11m 12s):
Right? Sure. So whenever a new threat like this happens, there are always conspiracy theories about whether the new pathogen was designed or engineered to infect humans, and certainly it does nothing to quell those theories when You hear that? It's so well adapted to infecting human cells. It sounds it sounds improbable that a virus that was lurking in. Some wild animal should have exactly those right rates and then somehow managed find its way into a human body. But there are a lot of coronavirus has out there that we don't know about and I think that's the reality of the world that a lot of us don't understand that wild animals Harbor Millions, maybe billions of different kinds of coronavirus has even though the odds that any one of them might infect us very well and cause a pandemic of the kind we're seeing of very low it actually becomes a reasonably likely scenario given how many possible viruses there are out there.

1 (12m 31s):
This seems to be the one that by pretty bad luck had the right combination of traits to effectively and stealthily spread among human hosts.

2 (12m 50s):
After the break what this coronavirus does inside the body and whether you should be worried that this virus is mutating. This is reset.

1 (13m 14s):
I've personally never used netsuite. But according to netsuite with netsuite you get a full picture of your business finance inventory HR customers and more. It gives you everything you need to grow all in one place. You can run your entire business from anywhere. Even if you're working from home. I know a lot of you are with netsuite you are covered from home. You also get the visibility and control you need to make the right decisions and grow your business with confidence, which is why netsuite is the world's number one Cloud business system trusted by more than 20 thousand companies.

1 (13m 56s):
Those numbers are coming from netsuite, but you know, they sound pretty confident. You can schedule your free product tour right now and receive a free guide six ways to run a more profitable business and netsuite.com / explained that his net netsuite.com explained explained expl a iined netsuite n ET s you ite trying to make sure no one thinks it's called netsuite like any T. SW EET, although that sounds cool, too.

2 (14m 32s):
Where's the best ice cream in the neighborhood? How come there's been traffic at the same corner for a week is someone near me selling their coffee table find the answers to all this and so much more on next door. Next door is the app for everything happening in your community. It's available in every us neighborhood and every member is verified. So, you know, it's the best place to find trusted local knowledge. And next door is a great tool for connecting with those around you whether you're new in the area need to borrow a power. Drill or are organizing a block party. Next door is the place to go to ask invite and stay informed with next door. Neighbor's worldwide are already working together to build stronger safer happier communities.

2 (15m 14s):
So what are you waiting for? The app is free go to nextdoor.com explain to sign up and see what's happening in your neighborhood. Be sure to use the link from our show to sign up. So they know that you support our show remember that's nextdoor.com explained.

1 (15m 44s):
Hey just a reminder that you're listening to an episode of reset in your today explain feed today. The show's digging into a lot of the scientific and technology related stories around this pandemic right now. They just dropped an episode about what the word Airborne means when it comes to the coronavirus and

2 (15m 59s):
in the week ahead. They'll be

1 (16m 1s):
covering the ventilator shortage in America

2 (16m 3s):
and video game called Animal Crossing that

1 (16m 6s):
allows you to do all the things you can't do. More in real life go fishing. Hang out with friends are real speaks with a couple that just got married in the game on Tuesday subscribe to reset so you don't miss that. But for now, let's go back to our real and

2 (16m 21s):
Ed Ed young science writer at the Atlantic part of what makes this coronavirus pandemic. So scary is that it's killed a lot of people and I'm wondering what exactly does this virus do in the human body.

1 (16m 35s):
Yes. So again, we're left to speculate. Little bit based on a combination of medical experience from people around the world the results of I think only one autopsy to date and then our understanding of what similar viruses like SARS have done in the past. So this is a likely scenario. It may not be a hundred percent accurate one, but it's sort of the best of all we've got right now the virus seems to infect cells in the Airways. It gets into those cells reproduces and then makes more copies of itself causes the cells to die dying cells Slough off from the Airways and carry the virus down into the lungs where the infections proceed even further.

1 (17m 26s):
So now you've got a bunch of dead cells. You've got a fluid building up in the lungs. All of these can cause problems for people who are infected making a different more. Court to

2 (17m 39s):
breathe so is that the reason why having ventilators has suddenly become so

1 (17m 43s):
important. This is absolutely why ventilators are really important the virus causes havoc in the respiratory system and and makes it more difficult for people to breathe is the is the long and short of it, but the the really serious problems seem to occur not just as a consequence of the infection itself, but because of the body's attempt to Fight that infection so the immune system typically mount a kind of some kind of defense against the virus but in some cases that defense goes berserk so the immune system radically over reacts and launchers.

1 (18m 30s):
What is known as a cytokine storm.

2 (18m 34s):
Is that where the fever comes

1 (18m 35s):
in know? The fever is part of the standard in Immune response so fever inflammation and a lot of the symptoms that we typically associate with these kinds of viruses. That's just your body trying to fight back. Okay, a lot of them more severe problems that people have experienced is the result of the body trying to fight back essentially too hard and those kinds of reactions that cytokine storm are pretty common for a lot of new and severe. Fictions we saw them with the 1918 flu pandemic. We saw them with with I think the 2009 flu pandemic a lot of these new emerging infections cause the immune system to overreact because nothing like them has ever been encountered by an immunologic Lee naive population before and that over-reaction drives a lot of the more severe symptoms.

1 (19m 38s):
Items that that we see among the most severe cases of covid-19.

2 (19m 43s):
So I'm glad you brought up the more severe cases because you know, as we all know some people experience mild fever and chills and and the eventually get over it While others are being hospitalized right now, right? So do we know why that is do we know the reason why some people are affected so strongly While others are not

1 (20m 3s):
so I would say that unfortunately, we don't certainly age seems to be a Factor in that older people are at greater risk of more severe illness and and sadly of dying from the disease. We don't really know why that is it might just be that older people are less able to mount an efficient initial immune response against the virus, but there are almost certainly other factors at work here. We know that even within an age group some People are more likely to get severe disease than others. Maybe that has something to do with their genetics.

1 (20m 44s):
I think that's very likely it might have to do with for example, the initial amounts of virus that they are exposed to a lot of younger people who seem to be doing really badly or healthcare workers who might be exposed to much higher levels of virus because they're treating people who are very sick other aspects of the immune system, like people's pre-existing degree of immunity. T not to this virus but just in like in terms of how well their immune system is working that might have have an impact there are lots of possible variables and we don't know which one of those is important right now, which means that we only have a very crude understanding of who is at risk and who is

2 (21m 29s):
not. So right now we're working to squash a virus that we know still very little about but that is replicating effectively in humans, and and I'm Wondering that always comes with a Chance of mutation right where a virus is genetic makeup might change a bit which is perfectly normal except that some mutations are more important than others. So could the virus behind covid-19 mutate and become even more effective.

1 (21m 54s):
Certainly. It doesn't seem that way right now. None of the mutations that have thus far cropped up seem to be having a significant effect. On the course of the illness or the course of the pandemic around the world now that was certainly true when I spoke to virologist about four or five days ago. Maybe that is changed or already the signs around the virus is moving. Very very quickly. Here's what I think is is pretty safe to say we can absolutely assume and and we can already see that mutations will arise it may well be that the virus changes in important ways in the future.

1 (22m 38s):
I would be surprised if those changes lead to a much faster rate of transmission for example, or a much higher rate of fatality because this thing is already very good at infecting people and very good at spreading. I think it is hard to imagine what would drive it to benefit from spreading even further to a degree that would then? Let the mutations behind that enhanced ability become fixed in the population. So I don't know. I'm it's entirely plausible are not sure how likely it is.

1 (23m 20s):
But you know, I will stress that one of the problems that we've had in dealing with this virus and this pandemic in general has sort of been a failure of imagination like we really have it really has gone beyond a lot of what we thought might happen and by We I don't just mean like the general population. But but also a lot of people who think very deeply about issues of preparedness and the threat of pandemics. So, you know, I'm definitely not ruling anything out. But certainly I think we need a lot more evidence before we come to any conclusions about what the virus might or might not do in the future. And in them in the meantime, there's a gigantic fire that needs to be put

2 (24m 2s):
out it. Is there any chance of this fire might be put out by this coming summer will will warmer weather. Just help this thing go

1 (24m 10s):
away. I highly doubt it in the absence of other stringent control measures. We already seeing spread in places like Singapore which is in the tropics or in Australia, which is only just coming out of its summer. I think the way to think about it is that this is a while fire spreading among Big Field full of Tinder and what expecting Summer to help is like expecting a very gentle rain to douse that fire. It probably won't happen and which is why other measures like getting hospitals ready and social distance distancing and all the like are really important clearly.

1 (25m 0s):
We are in a very bad situation right now, and and I think it drives home what Some kinds of viruses are capable of and why we need to understand them but I think this goes well beyond basic virologist, I or you know, as sort of fundamental curiosity about the world around us. I think what this shows is that we as a society are exquisitely vulnerable even a country like America has just catastrophically flogged its response to this new threat.

1 (25m 47s):
So the virus itself is part of it a crucial part that we need to understand but this is a event and a story that Compass has all aspects of our society everything from how equitably people can Access healthcare to how we treat the eldest among us to our posture with the International Community. Yes, the virus is the underlying cause of it, but there's so much more to understand and to improve about the entire world and maybe that's a lesson that I hope we will learn on the back of this.

2 (26m 38s):
Ed young is a science writer at the Atlantic. I hope you learned something about this coronavirus today. And if you did my guess is that your friends and family will too. So, please share this episode with them. And of course subscribe to the show reset is all about explaining the science behind these kinds of problems and the technology driving Solutions or occasionally making these problems worse. I'm Ariel Tom Ross. This is reset to get in touch with me. Follow me on Twitter.

2 (27m 18s):
I'm at adrs. We publish episodes three times a week on Tuesdays Thursdays and Sundays later nerds. If there was a spreadable clickable bakeable plant face butter that was better for your body and the planet what would you make with it butter cookies butter pie? That's a thing by the way, whatever. It is Country Crock plant butter makes it happen and makes it delicious Country Crock plant butter is so tasty even butter lovers love it. You can use it as a one-to-one substitute for dairy butter in all of your favorite recipes and enjoy it knowing it has 25% Less saturated fat than regular old dairy butter to try it for yourself.

2 (28m 4s):
Use the store locator at Country Crock.com / plant - butter today. Hey everyone. This is Kara Swisher editor-at-large at recode and I'm Scott Galloway and my you business school professor. And we want to tell you about pivot are twice weekly podcast. Yeah, you're right. It's a chance for the jungle cat and the big dog to break down all things happening in Tech business politics and among our canine friends. Oh my God Scott. This is where like basically where I keep you in check. So people can make it through each episode which one of our fans The yelling podcast unleash the hounds release the Hound Cara release the Hound got it.

2 (28m 49s):
I spent all week in the trenches holding Business Leaders feet to the fire fearlessly tweeting at the Zuckerberg the world and then we come in the student argue about which one of us knows more about what happened that week. Typically, it's me, but not for lack of trying on Scott's part if typically means one to two percent of the time, yes, typically every Tuesday and Friday morning. We drop a new episode about some of the biggest stories that have happened to give you context. Or how those stories affect your life your portfolio your personal well-being and your Landscaping. Oh my God, we're on top of the big stories that kept first book Is monitor your not monitoring misleading political ads including coronavirus as we're watching the big companies like Airbnb try to battle with cities over renting rules.

2 (29m 31s):
We talked about how ride sharing companies are navigating the gig economy you name it and we will walk you through the story. Also, we like to pick apart the winners and losers of the week. We talked to experts Smarter than we are pretty low bar there about important issues. And we take your listener questions to provide Nuance care. We do by Nuance. You want wants anyone ever accused us of being Nuance. That's the copy. They gave us. Oh my God and Scott, even though I give him a hard time because in fact a prediction machine how many things have you gotten right Scott? Do you keep a tally? I think I've gotten exactly 50% right? I'm almost sure that okay exactly. 50% is super probably by the way.

2 (30m 13s):
I'm not a prediction machine. I'm just a machine. Oh my God, and I don't dance for nobody but the jungle cat. Oh, that was good. Oh my God, that was good that is disturbing and every format. So if it sounds good to you, how could it not subscribe to Pivot with Kara swisher and Scott go away for free on Apple podcasts or in your favorite app.