0 (0s):
It's today. I explained I'm Sean Rama's firm

1 (3s):
And I'm Noel king,

0 (4s):
Noel. You and I have a favorite kind of question to answer on this show.

1 (7s):
Yes, democracy. We're both interested in democracy and how it's doing,

0 (11s):
Especially in these United States. And today you have once again, left the district of Columbia to answer questions about how American democracy is doing, where are you this time? Noel? Is it Topeka? Is it Alaska? Is it to hunger?

1 (23s):
None of the above. I'm in Budapest, Hungary,

0 (26s):
Noel. That's not even in the United States.

1 (29s):
It's all the way across the Atlantic ocean. But the reason I'm here, Sean is because there's a certain type of American conservative that is looking at hungry, which used to be a democracy. And now is not. There's lots of anti-democratic stuff going on here. And a lot of us conservatives are interested in how Hungary did this. They think what's going on here is not such a bad thing. And so this week they flown to Hungary for a big conservative conference. And I am here to

0 (57s):
Remiss you Support for the show. And it comes from Fitbit in the middle of the show today, Fitbit is going to give you a sound bath and you're like, maybe what is a sound bath, bro? I just take regular. Actually I shower, listen to the sound bath. You're just going to be hearing like gongs singing bowls, crystal chimes. It's all going to bring a little bit more common to your life. It's going to be 3d sound. So if you got headphones that have like spatial audio, turn that thing on. Listen to your body. Feel your power. Learn more@fitbit.com.

5 (1m 41s):
Hello to all of our friends in Hungary. This is bad.

1 (1m 43s):
The high profile conservatives going to the conservative political action conference or SeaPak in Hungary, Matt Schlappi chairman of the conservative political action conference.

5 (1m 53s):
We are so excited to come join you in your freedom loving country with a lot of our friends and VIP's from America,

1 (2m 2s):
Candace Owens, conservative activists, conspiracy theorist, friend of Kanye,

6 (2m 7s):
Candace Owens. I'm. So looking forward to speaking at <inaudible>

1 (2m 10s):
The Budapest then Ferguson, the right wing radio host. Who's been on air since he was 13 years

0 (2m 15s):
Old. I

7 (2m 16s):
Can't wait to see him

1 (2m 17s):
And Rick Santorum best known for, well, maybe you just Google him.

8 (2m 22s):
They're very excited to be able to be there and speak at this event. I hope to see you there.

1 (2m 30s):
But the real draw is Hungary's prime minister, Victor Orban, a leader whose political career did not begin when Donald Trump endorsed him last year, or even when he endorsed Donald Trump in 2016, his life in politics began many, many years ago. And Victor Shabus gin has known or bond from the beginning.

9 (2m 50s):
I am a former journalist for many, many years, but I'm out write history books. I'm a historian.

1 (2m 56s):
Why are certain types of American conservative? So interested in Hungary right now? Do you think

9 (3m 3s):
Because the guy who is presently in charge Victor or ban is a winner. He expresses a kind of Christian nationalism, or that has very powerful resonance. Obviously in America, he's succeeded in essentially taking over a country,

10 (3m 21s):
Just footage that we just shot in Budapest. They're not tent cities of drug addicts living in the parks here, there isn't garbage and human waste littering. The sidewalks people don't get beheaded at intersections. BLM is not allowed to torch entire neighborhoods in Budapest.

9 (3m 37s):
They see the hungry small though. It is and cutoff though. It is. And in Europe, though, it is, was actually managed to do many of the things that the nationalists right in America is aiming to do. In a nutshell, I think that's the reason

10 (3m 53s):
That's how Americans used to live before leaders decided they no longer cared about you.

1 (3m 58s):
Victor Hungary's recent history. You could argue starts with the Hungarian revolution in 1956, you were a baby. I know your family had to flee what happened

9 (4m 9s):
Well, And the war hungry was occupied when the final battle against Hitler from the east

11 (4m 18s):
In October, 1944, when the red army crossed into Hungary, the Hungarians welcomed them as liberators. But in Budapest, the fighting was at its fiercest.

9 (4m 29s):
The Soviet union captured most of Eastern Europe, including Hungary. And they kept it as a Soviet state socialized. It turned it completely communist, a one party state. It was a communist state, no feed them bogus elections. It was an adjunct to the Soviet union

11 (4m 47s):
In 1951 and 52 thousands of people were deported to the mines, state farms, all concentration camps.

12 (4m 53s):
My mother's first husband was arrested and we were terrified to be deported to the country. Fair, drove many to suicide

9 (5m 3s):
In 1956, hungry, tried to rebel and pluck out of the pack to the Soviet union.

11 (5m 11s):
In spite of their lack of training, the Hungarians did well against the Soviet tanks, drawing them into narrow streets and dropping Molotov cocktails into their petrol tanks to destroy them

9 (5m 22s):
For a short while the Russians, the cloud, they were going to put out and indeed they pull out. But then a few days later, the return with overwhelming force and complete the demolished, large parts of Hungary destroyed the hopes of freedom for the Hungarians. That was one of the defining moments in the cold war.

9 (6m 2s):
That was when it was clear that the Soviets at that point were not going to give up any of the domains that they had won in the second world war. And it was equally clear despite the rhetoric in large parts of the west, that they were going to roll back communism. They weren't really going to do very much to help any of the rebellions because it was too risky.

1 (6m 21s):
There's a tradition of young people rising up against the Soviets. And then in the late eighties, the Soviet union, as you say, begins to fall apart, and there is a young man in Hungary who begins to get a lot of attention. Can you tell me the first time Victor Orban came to your attention?

9 (6m 39s):
I was a journalist covering Russia and Eastern Europe in the mid eighties when the communist system was throughout Eastern Europe and indeed in the Soviet union was falling apart. All that at that point was a kind of radical chic figure. Radical

1 (6m 54s):
Chic

9 (6m 55s):
Is the go-to dissident. The moment when I landed as a reporter, one landed in Andree and Budapest. One of the first people you'd want to go talk to, to all bound. He had really good English. He was incredibly smart, super smart. He had a Rolodex of everyone who was anyone in the dissident movement throughout Eastern Europe. He started this party, him and some university student chums to feed that Truett was the association of young Democrats as a very liberal anticommunist organization, totally connected with Western Europe. Their aim was to get rid of communists and him and bring about a democratic, very traditional west European liberal centrist government deeply connected with Europe.

9 (7m 45s):
That was their idea or bonus to say his party was super cool centrist. He didn't want any members over 35. Religion was never mentioned that wasn't the kind of revolution he wanted to bring about them. It was the party of cool fetus was the policy of cool. He was always dressed in sort of jeans, white shirt, five days, stumble one would ask him, well, what do you see? Let's say the communist go Soviet union. Those Russian troops are no longer there. What funny country do one? And he sent it when I want it to be a boring normal European countries say Sweden were Australia was something that was the kind of revolution the dissidents wanted in the late eighties,

1 (8m 28s):
Nor Bonnie is young. He's hot, he's oriented toward Western Europe. And in June of 1989, as I understand it, he did something remarkable. What happened.

9 (8m 40s):
And most of the great moment was the fall of the Berlin wall. That was the symbol of the Soviet empire falling apart. And the hopes of democracy rising. Again, being in the ascendance again in Hungary, the great dramatic moment was this extraordinary reburial of Imran knowledge, who was the leaders in 1956 revolution. He and his group had been hanging them buried in the middle of nowhere,

15 (9m 9s):
Sweeps the non communist world and reaction to the execution last week of Emery and three other leaders of Hungary's freedom fighters at 1956

9 (9m 19s):
In 1989, it was a big, big symbolic campaign to get them repaired. And it was, it was a huge occasion,

16 (9m 28s):
16th, 300,000 people in heroes' square Budapest to mourn the man who was prime minister during the dramatic days of 1956.

9 (9m 36s):
It was a remarkable event because it wasn't totally clear that the Soviet system and the communist system had been bad. There was still some edginess. There was still some

17 (9m 49s):
Bunching. These traits I'm looking for red flags had started. So I didn't see it even though one

9 (9m 58s):
Big demonstration that never been such things in any communists unread before. Well, not to that many thing, that extent something

17 (10m 5s):
Is going on, but it's not clear.

9 (10m 12s):
The other thing you couldn't talk about in hungry then, even though it was fairly liberal, the thing that you couldn't say in Hungary publicly then was the Russians go home, rushed some time out of hungry. There was some borings, but I love the boring speeches by communist apparatchiks and them, all them comes up and his jeans, white shirt and stuff Makes this very short, but brilliance about freedom, about the hopes of democracy. And the main point of it was to say the taboo thing that you couldn't say publicly in Russia, Russian troops get out of hungry.

19 (10m 55s):
Well <inaudible>

9 (11m 0s):
And there was this unbelievably massive chair. This pumps through, you know, most people, I think

19 (11m 10s):
I'm bending.

9 (11m 12s):
It was an absolute extraordinary moment. Very, very few Hungarians that slide, small dissident circle knew who Victoria, once at that point. And then after that everyone knew Victoria. It was the moment that made it

1 (11m 32s):
Coming up. How that freedom fighter turned his back on democracy. It's today explained,

20 (11m 52s):
This is advertiser brought to you by Fitbit. Stillness does not come easily for me. I'm very busy brained. So you can imagine the difficulties that I have with

21 (12m 3s):
And shit. I would say, if you don't have time to meditate, this is probably an invitation to meditate twice as much.

20 (12m 9s):
I'm Martha, a podcast producer at Vox media, who is constantly working on too many screens and too many projects at once, which is exactly why I wanted to meet on a net to now a sound meditation practitioner in Los Angeles. Some people might dismiss sound healing as kind of a new age modality, but there's nothing new about this, right?

21 (12m 30s):
The history says that in Greece, they use sound healing for mental health also in Egypt. But if you trace it back, all the different cultures have an element of sound for healing

20 (12m 41s):
Soundbites work by activating the parasympathetic nervous system, that system in charge of our rest and digest response, including our resting heart rate. I laid back and took a 10 minute EDA scan on my Fitbit sense while practicing deep breathing EDA scans that's electrodermal activity. By the way, since tiny electrical changes in your skin. And over those 10 minutes, I came to understand why sound meditation has been around for so long. According to my Fitbit, my resting heart rate slowed from 87 beats per minute to 70. And while my brain was still medium busy throughout the experience, the sounds Ana was producing were very, very exciting for this audio nerd.

20 (13m 26s):
My Fitbit since showed me that my heart rate did in fact, find rest, Listen to your body, feel your power. Learn more@fitbit.com

1 (13m 42s):
It's state explained we're back with Victor. Sabis Stan. Here's where we left off. This kid gets up this 26 year old, 27 year old kid gets up. He makes a speech. He blows the country away. Everybody now knows his name. He has said the thing that no one has ever said. And then what happens? He goes into politics, which I guess is what everybody would have expected from a young man like this. Tell me about his early political career.

9 (14m 6s):
Well, he leads this party fetus through parliamentary elections. He leads them as he has done up till now. He's always been in politics. He'd never had any other work, never had only other job. So he is in opposition for the first eight years of democratic Hungary and many. He wins the election in the late nineties. It's a kind of sense of right government. It is, it is a very traditional, very moderate, conservative government,

1 (14m 38s):
Young man who was super cool, wanted democracy was looking to Europe. He is elected prime minister, and then he just becomes kind of a stodgy Hungarian politician,

9 (14m 51s):
Essentially,

1 (14m 53s):
Who was his constituency? Was it the young people in the jeans and the sneakers who voted him into office? Who, who liked this guy

9 (15m 1s):
By then? He was starting to appeal to much more traditional conservatives and Budapest, but mostly people outside Budapest. But of course that's what he was trying to get at, but he didn't fire anyone up. He was too cautious. That's what he said. And the economic problems were enormous.

1 (15m 19s):
So the fiery opposition leader now has to deal with actual governing and his party, if he does, is voted out in 2002, what happens to him next?

9 (15m 29s):
They lose power for two terms. So eight years he uses that period to completely transform that's when the transformation would FedEx happens, He saw the coming tide was going to be, what's called populism. Now, you know, nationalism, ultra nationalism, much further to the right, much more rigorously conservative. The use of Christian rhetoric could never use any Catholic rhetoric before it never gone down that road. This is when it starts. Anti-immigrant rhetoric

1 (16m 4s):
Was elected prime minister, again in 2010. He's been in power ever since if I'd been in Budapest over the last 12 years or so, what would I have heard or bond say that would have surprised me if I knew him in the eighties?

9 (16m 18s):
Oh, it's the fault of the global elite. That's the fault of the city dwellers. It's the fault of all the pro Europeans. It's the same rhetoric as you're hearing almost everywhere. It was rebalanced the after the financial disaster of 2008 or 11, hungry as always it's foreigners, that's the plan,

23 (16m 41s):
Race, his own to get Hungary's border fence ready. By the end of the month, it's being built by prison inmates and put in place by soldiers and the unemployment.

9 (16m 50s):
He's not anti-Semitic, but there are plenty of people around him are a lot of the rhetoric is very unpleasant and Semitic rhetoric,

24 (16m 59s):
Face of billionaire philanthropist and native Hungarian. George Soros is the centerpiece of all bans reelection campaign. And though all band denies it, Jewish groups see another appeal to history in the vilification of Soros.

25 (17m 13s):
This is really the cliche that that Jews are secretly working to undermine the European white and Christian race.

1 (17m 28s):
Do you think that Orban authentically became more conservative and more nationalist over time? Or was this entirely pragmatic? Was this entirely about staying in power?

9 (17m 40s):
In my view, it's all completely calculated and pragmatic. I don't believe he's really got an ideological bone in his body that he probably didn't believe all the liberal stuff he was talking in the eighties. He doesn't believe in anything that isn't a benefit to him. He is the ultimate opportunist.

1 (17m 58s):
He's a big accusation that you're making. And because you're a journalist and historian, I want to ask you if you would defend the point. W why do you believe this about Victor Orban? What makes you think that this man is the ultimate opportunist?

9 (18m 11s):
Many people say the things that he would say privately a totally, completely different than letters, things that you would say in public. The other thing you really need to know about or balm is the level of corruption of the government that he has led. He has never had a real job. He's never had a business. None of his family have really had much businesses yet. Somehow they're billionaires. Well, how does that happen?

26 (18m 37s):
But his best friend, a gas fitter called Lauryn Meza rush quickly became the richest man in Hungary, leading to accusations of nepotism and economic corruption. The prime minister, his son-in-law van to bots also saw his wealth rapidly increase.

9 (18m 51s):
He's used public money to make his friends extremely rich. He's used to use money to make his friends extremely rich. They have massive contracts with companies and all of those contracts go to his friends. They have grown wealthy on massive EDU handouts. That's how he's corrupted. The state.

1 (19m 11s):
You're saying this is about money. This is about getting rich. This is not about an actual philosophy of governance. So how does Victor Orban start to consolidate power and then continue down that road to where he is today?

9 (19m 23s):
Well, he won in 2010 was a two-thirds majority in parliament, which basically allowed him to change the constitution. And what he did was he created committees that appointed the judiciary. It's the party that appoints the judiciary.

29 (19m 46s):
There is a general climate of fear that they can do anything to us judges in certain types of cases, maybe one involving a foreign currency loan or refugees, or referring to a politician from any of the parties. The judge may think he or she is expected to rule in a certain way.

9 (20m 3s):
He created a council that had ultimate control of the press radio television, the internet too, in a way that unknown almost anywhere else in Europe,

30 (20m 15s):
International press Institute report describes state media as uncritically echoing the messaging of the government or the government's accused of distributing its massive advertising budget to finance, private media outlets that support it and staff those that don't.

9 (20m 31s):
So he used his original two thirds majority in order to obtain these commissions, which gave him ultimate control over the state in a way that is unusual in a democracy. And he gerrymandered the, the voting districts that happens in other countries too. But it's done in a much, much more systematic way in Hungary, fully as ago, not the selection. He got a two thirds, majority of 65% of the seats on the 39% of the vote. It's a very similar country now than it was in the last few years of communism. Only the one county state is FedEx.

1 (21m 9s):
Do you think Hungary still is a democracy

9 (21m 12s):
No longer, entirely a democracy,

1 (21m 14s):
Even though Victor Orban managed to pull all of this off within the confines of the law, like he didn't do anything illegal.

9 (21m 22s):
I'm not saying he's a fascist authoritarian. He isn't, but he's certainly not a Democrat either. That's an interesting argument, all kinds of things in one's country. And within the law, it doesn't necessarily make it either democratic or will make it make it right. I mean, it's within the law, but I've been trying to explain how the laws are made and the laws are made in a democratic way,

1 (21m 44s):
Right? I'm saying he did it within the law and you're saying, yeah, but he made all the laws. He appointed every single judge and the judges make the laws

9 (21m 53s):
And he made the constituents is in which the parliament, in which he's ruling that is elected. And that is entirely democratic. There was this old saying, you know, the voting is democratic, the counting isn't there other things that are happening that bakes that essentially at one point, the state voting is that a new one, them up to democracy, you need a free press. You need a free judiciary. You need separation of powers. Only things that don't apply in Hungary.

1 (22m 23s):
I think the thing that continues to astonish me is Victor or bond is not Alexander Lucas Shanko, the dictator of Belarus. He's not throwing people in prison. He's not killing his opponents in the streets. He's not poisoning people.

9 (22m 37s):
He's not, there is an opposition allowed. There's no people being sent to the salt mines. No,

1 (22m 43s):
It feels like he's making a very specific point. Doesn't it? You don't need to send people to the salt mines in order to keep power. That seems to me what makes him so special?

9 (22m 53s):
He's actually looked at the last years of Corbynism and he runs it kind of similar. The last political prisoner in a hungry under the calmness was in 1974. <inaudible> isle totalitarian. And I don't regard hundreds to kind of term it, take that word away. But authoritarians, how things work in Hungary is that you don't get on. If you're not a part of the ruling party, that's how it works. This isn't a way of the same kind of way that the communist Hungary worked you're in, or you're out. You're allowed this, or you're not allowed this. And it damages families. It damages the fabric of the society that becomes totally impossible to run a proper democratic society.

9 (23m 39s):
If you're an opposition person, but your family is scared that you might do the wrong thing to jeopardize their position. It's a very subtle, very clever process. It doesn't require prisons. It doesn't require salt mines. It requires a system of being, of being on the outside of everything. You'll never get into the right side if you're not a member of the ruling county.

1 (24m 2s):
And so I will end Victor by asking you the question I asked you at the beginning, why is the American? Right? So captivated by hungry and by Viktor Orban,

9 (24m 11s):
Oh, bounds a winner. They think that he offers the formula for winning electorally. And then when you went to laterally, maintaining your power electorally

1 (24m 22s):
And a winter with no salt mines, a winner with no secret police, just a guy who wins and gets away with winning.

9 (24m 33s):
Yeah, The state has been stolen and corrupted. It could be so much better.

1 (24m 47s):
Tomorrow on the show, we will be reporting from Budapest. We will be talking to Hungarians, those who like Viktor Orban, those who do not. And we will be asking them how they feel about their country. Moving from democracy to something very different Today's show was produced by miles Bryan. It was edited by Julie Myers and Matthew collect. It was engineered by a FEMA Shapiro and it was fact checked by Tori Dominguez. I'm Noel king it's today explained

0 (25m 53s):
Thanks to the people over at Fitbit for supporting this episode of today. Explained if you want to change how you deal with stress first, you need to understand it. That's where Fitbit sense comes in. It's an advanced smartwatch with some very cool stress monitoring features, including an E D a sensor that stands for electrodermal activity. Look it up the sense also tracks your sleep and puts all those vital stats into one health dashboard, because we all need a little help listening to our bodies, listen to your body, feel your power, learn more@fitbit.com.