3 (1s):
This episode is sponsored by Westworld its back for a thrilling third season on Sunday, March 15th, only on HBO. No spoilers. But this time the hosts are out in the real world with a whole new fight and understanding the cost of Free Will. Don't miss jaw-dropping performances from Evan Rachel Wood Aaron Paul, Dandy Newton, Jeffrey Wright and Ed Harris West world's daring new season starts Sunday, March 15th at 9 p.m. Only on Bo

2 (32s):
T-Mobile's the first and only Wireless company to offer Nationwide 5G covering over 200 million Americans and Counting. That's right. It's not just five genes select parts of Select cities T-Mobile Nationwide 5G covers over 5,000 cities and towns and that's just the beginning indoor/outdoor. No signal goes farther or is more reliable than T-Mobile's 5G find out more about the first largest and only Nationwide 5G Network at t - mobile.com that St. - mobile.com capable device required coverage not available in some areas downlink. Only some uses may require certain plan or feature CT - mobile.com Last night Corona virus infection rates in the United States forced a reckoning in Oklahoma City and NBA game was about to start when an official made an announcement of it is due to unforeseen circumstances.

2 (1m 36s):
The game tonight has been postponed. You're all safe. Take your time and do so in an orderly fashion. Thank you for coming out tonight soon after the NBA announced that a player had tested positive for Coronavirus just before the game starting tomorrow NBA play is suspended and then the league is going to use that Hiatus to decide their next steps how they'll go forward. But this is the last night of NBA games for the foreseeable future. But the NBA wasn't the only one closing down. All right,

3 (2m 13s):
we do want to give you some breaking news because we understand now that Seattle Public Schools will close for at least two weeks starting

2 (2m 20s):
tomorrow mosques churches synagogues. It had already been a part of the discussion here among staff about what is going to happen Come Holy Week come Easter expectations of huge crowds. All those kinds of things Tom Hanks and his wife Rita Wilson even tested positive. What's up, everyone? Yeah, it's true. My parents got coronavirus crazy. They're both down in Australia right now because my dad was shooting a movie down there. Then at 9 p.m. Eastern time President Trump gave a national address after Consulting with our top government health professionals. I have decided to take several strong but necessary actions to protect the health and well-being of all Americans to keep new cases from entering our Shores.

2 (3m 8s):
We will be suspending all travel from Europe to the United States for the next 30 days Jen Kirby Vox this travel ban that President Trump announced last night. Does it start immediately?

3 (3m 20s):
It starts effective Friday at

2 (3m 21s):
midnight. So the president said that this is suspending all travel from Europe to the US what exactly counts as

3 (3m 28s):
Europe? Yes, so it specifically refers to the European Union Schengen Zone, which is 26 countries, which includes France Germany Spain among a bunch of

2 (3m 37s):
others and there was one country that he Illicitly Exempted these restrictions will also not apply to the United Kingdom. Why was the UK not

3 (3m 47s):
included? It's not really clear why the UK wasn't included. We don't really have any reason the UK is not part of the Schengen Zone, but you know, the president is in the middle of trade talks with the UK and has a close relationship with Boris Johnson. So that might be why they're left out of the band, but we ultimately don't know and is this for

2 (4m 8s):
everyone like American citizens? Europe can they still come back?

3 (4m 12s):
Yeah right. Now the ban only applies to foreign Nationals who are coming from these 26 Schengen countries. It does not apply to u.s. Citizens or to Legal permanent residents, but there was some confusion about that leading to some hecticness and Chaos at European airports today. And is this band

2 (4m 29s):
just for people or Does it include everything coming from

3 (4m 33s):
Europe? It is just people according to the president of the White House, but they had to clarify that after the fact because during the speech Trump apparently misspoke and said that it would include cargo which led to an absolute freak out because the European Union and the u.s. Our major trading partners and that would probably be extraordinarily disruptive to the economy, but it turns out it was just a mistake just a mistake in the speech. Yeah, so it's not included in the order the order just applies to people but for you know a few minutes there it seemed as if Bang both goods and people coming from Europe or band but that turns out not to be the case

2 (5m 14s):
and how has the EU responded to this ban?

3 (5m 17s):
The EU has responded pretty harshly and directly. They condemned the United States for taking this action basically saying that this is a time for cooperation and not unilateral action and they basically said that they were not consulted on this pretty dramatic plan by the White House, which is incredible because these are some of Of our closest allies, so to not even give them a heads-up as we Institute this dramatic measure is pretty

2 (5m 47s):
remarkable. Yeah, I imagine, you know fighting the Corona virus is going to take some pretty intense International collaboration. Is this going to impact our ability to do that going forward?

3 (5m 57s):
I mean, I think that's sort of the main question you would believe at a time like this and a global pandemic where every country is preparing for an expecting to see the Corona virus on their Shores. You would think for something that the World Health Organization has declared a pandemic would require, you know, International cooperation and everybody working together to take measures to slow the spread of the disease. So this sort of nationalism in the wake of a crisis that is definitely not respecting National borders is pretty remarkable.

2 (6m 29s):
You know, I imagine restricting international travel at least on some level is helpful. Is there a sense that Trump may have backed into something at least slightly. Helpful here.

3 (6m 41s):
So dr. Anthony fauci who is a well-respected member of Trumps coronavirus task force did say that he believed that stopping people from coming in as well as working to prevent the spread in the United States would be an effective measure. So he is somebody who seems to agree that at least preventing some people from coming in will be helpful, but I think a lot of experts believe that the important component is making sure that you stop the spread. United States and the fear is that something like a travel ban kind of distracts from the very urgent measures that needs to be done in the US and try to places blame on Europe. For example, when at right now everybody's kind of all in this together has this ban had any broader impacts yet.

3 (7m 28s):
So the market does not seem happy about this order by the White House coming on the air with breaking news and the turmoil on Wall Street amid, the Corona virus outbreak all three major averages the Dow the NASDAQ and the P set to plunge as the trading day begins as it has just a few seconds ago. We see what's happening right there. That's the Dow Jones down about 7% this morning in the trading all of this. Of course, the stock market isn't the economy but it's a sign that you know, the United States may not be as on top of this pandemic and that might lead to economic disruptions worldwide, but we do not know the long-term economic impact of a band like this.

2 (8m 14s):
So it's certainly not helping the economy. Is it at least helping calm people down a bit did did Trump speech put anyone at ease at

3 (8m 22s):
all? I don't I mean it's hard to sort of gauge for how everybody felt but you know Public Health experts have largely said this ban is a distraction and a waste of you know time and energy and you have a lot of you know, Private entities for example, you know the MBA which is now spending it season taking these kind of more drastic measures that the US government hasn't really taken at least when it comes to inside the US. So there's definitely a disconnect and given the way the markets are reacting and some Public Health officials are speaking out. It seems that trumps Oval Office Speech didn't have the intended effect of calming the

2 (9m 1s):
nation. Even if you don't have coronavirus yourself, there's a lot you can do to help keep it from spreading. That's next. This episode is brought to you by fund rise a company working to build the best real estate investment experience ever fund rise is an investment platform that gives people the ability to own a portfolio of high-quality real estate. If you had to figure out how to best start investing in real estate on your own how well would you do with fundraise they've made the experience easier than ever by using technology to lower costs and improve return potential and create unprecedented transparency the Started you can visit fund rise.com explained or download the app on your phone then within a few minutes.

2 (9m 55s):
You'll be the proud owner of a balanced Diversified portfolio of serious real estate assets. All of which have been carefully vetted by the experienced fund rise team who know this stuff backward and forward, that's probably why more than a hundred thousand investors have already started investing with fund rise visit

3 (10m 11s):
fund rise.com explained

2 (10m 14s):
that's Fu ND R is e.com. Explained to have your first three months of fees waived.

3 (10m 26s):
This episode is brought to you by HP. HP believes that printing for your small business should be easy and convenient to do from whatever device you have on hand. So they created an app just for that. The HP smart app is the best in class Mobile Print app that streamlines the way you set up and used your HP printer. Now, you can print from your phone or tablet instantly from anywhere see a contract pop up in your email where you're grabbing coffee hit print on your phone and it'll be waiting in the tray when you get home. Or use the cameras can feature to capture copies of contracts you sign on the go and automatically send a copy to print out your home office. The HP smart app is designed to work with most new HP printers.

3 (11m 6s):
The HP smart app is available in Google Play or the App Store visit hp.com. Get real to shop compatible printers. That's hp.com. Get real.

2 (11m 23s):
Waho, has been assessing this outbreak around the clock and we're deeply concerned both by the alarming levels of spread and severity and by the alarming levels of inaction. We have therefore made the assessment that covered 19 can be characterized as a pandemic. Eliza Berkeley science and health editor at Vox yesterday's announcement from the who means that we're now officially dealing with a pandemic was this a

3 (11m 59s):
surprise. We actually expected this public health experts have been saying actually now for a couple of weeks this really looks like a pandemic we can pretty much call it 1 W Jo tends to be cautious. They wanted to hold off until they were certain that it was really severe enough to call a pandemic and I think it reflects their concern of how far it has spread. And the fact that several countries are now dealing with very serious outbreaks

2 (12m 24s):
so far. The u.s. Hasn't had the number of cases that Italy or China or South Korea has is that about to

3 (12m 30s):
change all the signs suggest? Yes yesterday. Dr. Tony fauci of the NIH

2 (12m 38s):
said we will see more cases and things will get worse than they are right

3 (12m 44s):
now and part of that has to do with the fact we're going to be testing more. So we're going to find more cases. But also it seems that the virus is spreading in the United States and it may spread very rapidly very quickly. If we don't take all these measures that were being asked to take to slow down the spread and prevent new cases.

2 (13m 5s):
Is that really all we can hope for right now to slow down the spread we can't stop the spread.

3 (13m 9s):
Yes, that is correct containment is now pretty much off the table. There are too many cases. It's too contagious. We are just going to have to try to slow it

2 (13m 18s):
down and what happens if Don't take steps to slow down the

3 (13m 21s):
spread the consequences of that are not just lots of cases and deaths but that our Health Care system, which by the way is at capacity right now can be totally overwhelmed. And so that means that people who are sick with the virus who need to be on a ventilator to breathe and we're talking about here people who are very very sick who have severe pneumonia those people if we get an explosion of them, there won't be enough ventilators or beds for them and then think about about a hospital that's just overwhelmed with suddenly this influx of Cove in 19 patients that hospital then is going to not be as well equipped to care for everyone else who's going to have their issues.

3 (14m 2s):
So when we talk about why we need to slow down this epidemic now, we're trying to avoid that worst-case scenario.

2 (14m 15s):
So what should we do to prevent the worst-case scenario from happening

3 (14m 19s):
so social Is about slowing social contact so think about those of us who live in a city we go to the grocery store we go to the gym we go to work. We're on the Metro or on a bus were constantly around a lot of other people and so the idea with social distancing is to reduce the intensity and the frequency of possible exposure to the virus what this means in terms of what public health authorities are asking us is avoid crowds cancel pup, Mass public. Like Gatherings, maybe stay home from work, depending on where you work whether there's a lot of cases in your area. Maybe close your school in epidemiology world this whole concept of trying to slow down.

3 (15m 3s):
The outbreak is called flattening. The curve the idea is what we don't want is a huge surge in cases where they're peeking and we get to that situation of overwhelming the healthcare system that I mentioned instead. We want a slow curve. So while containments not an option anymore. We may still get a lot of cases in this situation. We want to see those cases spread out over a very long period of time so that the healthcare system can manage and care for the people who are going to be really sick.

2 (15m 34s):
Is there any chance that the Trump Administration calls for a full lockdown

3 (15m 39s):
that seems pretty unlikely in part because the federal government doesn't really have the power to do and National lockdown. There's actually a significant debate even among Public Health experts about whether a lockdown type of policy where you are saying to people stay home for the most part except for essential travel whether those really work. Or if you can get by with these other kinds of social distancing measures, which just say, let's close some schools for a period of time. Let's ask people to work from home if they can those things alone may be enough. And also we're advising especially the most vulnerable groups to avoid crowds to stay home, you know more than they would what this situation shows us right is that we are all in this together.

3 (16m 29s):
We have a collective responsibility to protect the most vulnerable and that means idea. Ali everyone follows these guidelines because nobody has immunity to this disease so if I'm young and healthy and I get sick and I may be asymptomatic, but if I'm out and about in a lot of public spaces, I'm potentially infecting people who may or may not be vulnerable but they might take it home to their vulnerable grandmother. We are very interconnected in this situation and that's why we've seen in the last week, you know. Couple of Governors making pretty big decisions for their citizens Governor Jay Inslee on Tuesday announced new rules about visiting nursing homes in Washington

2 (17m 14s):
state. We are requiring compliance that residents are limited to one visitor per day visitors must be adults and the visit must take place in the residents room to all visitors must follow code 19 screening and follow a reasonable precautionary

3 (17m 32s):
measures and then yesterday, he said that all public Gatherings of more than 250 people in the Seattle area will be

2 (17m 40s):
cancelled these events that are prohibited our Gatherings for social recreational spiritual and other matters including but not limited to community Civic public Leisure faith-based or sporting events parades concerts festivals conventions fundraisers and similar activities of that Dimension are Gibbeted as we go forward

3 (18m 6s):
and then lastly the first school district in the country the Seattle public school district announced it was closing and that begins today and it will last for two weeks.

2 (18m 15s):
What about other places around the

3 (18m 17s):
country in New York state? We have Governor Andrew Cuomo announced a new one mile containment area around New Rochelle because there is a cluster of coronavirus cases there.

2 (18m 29s):
Let's look at the situation we have about 100 cases in New Rochelle. Just to put it in perspective. We have 36 cases in New York City New York City is 100 times the size of New Rochelle. Okay. So New Rochelle is the hottest spot. If you will in the country yesterday Governor Cuomo declared it to week ban on all large gatherings in the area where thousands of people live and work effectively shutting down its schools houses of worship and athletic clubs. We're also going to use the National Guard in the containment area. To deliver food to homes to help with the cleaning of public

3 (19m 12s):
spaces. This is the first time we're seeing this type of measure in the United States. It sounds like a I think more severe measure than it is containment doesn't mean that everyone can't leave. It just means they're actively trying to contain this cluster of cases in this community not let it spread outside.

2 (19m 34s):
It doesn't seem obvious to me that everyone would just abide by these rules if they're handed down by States or companies. I read this story about this this guy in Missouri who was told to self quarantine and then went to his, you know, father-daughter dance. I mean are there measures in place to hold people accountable if they break quarantine or is this sort of an honor System at this point

3 (19m 56s):
in general? I think we can expect local government to try voluntary measures first. So many people have been told to self-quarantine. At this point if they have symptoms, they may not have been tested yet or they may say so far be testing negative but they're still being told to stay home in case they might have it and then potentially get tested but in general if you're not sick minimize your time in crowded places wash your hands a lot and look out for the vulnerable. I mean, the other thing we can do is if we know someone who is let's say has a chronic medical condition we can help them by. By doing their grocery shopping for them things like

2 (20m 35s):
that, you know, we've covered this from so many different angles on the show. I mean Sean actually spoke to someone who had the Corona virus and even though he was in a high-risk group. It didn't seem like having it necessarily was such a terrible experience, but I guess to be clear what you're saying. Is that even if we don't have it it's important for us to act differently.

3 (20m 55s):
Yes because we could get other people sick without knowing it. We all want to be able to use the Healthcare System, you know, whenever we want to but if we have a situation where we have so many people who are sick with coronavirus overloading our hospitals, then that's going to affect everyone. So we do this now to prevent that.

2 (21m 23s):
Eliza Berkeley is the science and health editor at Vox. I'm no I'm hassenfeld filling in for Sean Rama's for him while he's on vacation. This is today explained.