1 (1s):
Hello products is a new kind of naturally friendly Oral Care created by a small independent crew using thoughtful ingredients. So delicious you will rush to brush. They've got a website. Hello products.com and you score ten percent off your first order when you use the promo code. Hello today one word. Hello today shop now at hello products.com The last time we talked about Boris Johnson on the show. We mostly focused on boars Johnson, but since then he's had a real opportunity to prove himself to the British people as Boris Johnson Prime Minister of Great Britain, and as you may have heard it's been something to behold.

1 (53s):
It's

2 (53s):
country still stands then as now for democracy for the rule of law. It is Jeremy corbyn's surrender built. It means running running. He isn't winning friends in Europe. He's losing friends at home. His is a government with no mandate

3 (1m 18s):
no morals and as

2 (1m 19s):
of today no majority.

3 (1m 23s):
It's turning out that he's not as clever or Savvy in navigating this as he wanted and it's a lot harder than perhaps even he had thought to deliver brexit by this October 31st deadline

1 (1m 35s):
Jen and Kirby has been covering brexit and Bojo for

3 (1m 38s):
Vox. He came into office basically on one key promise, which is that he would take the United Kingdom out of the European Union brexit on October 31st with or without a deal in

2 (1m 53s):
place. Dildo Me Do or

1 (1m 55s):
Die And what's the first big move he makes towards that do or die

3 (2m 1s):
probably the biggest move are at the splash easiest move is at the end of August when Boris Johnson decides that he's going to suspend Parliament for five

2 (2m 12s):
weeks. First Wilson likes to position himself as the people's prime minister there to deliver brexit, but this crowd Furious about the brexit bombshell dropped today the p.m. Trying to shut down Parliament for

1 (2m 26s):
five weeks to stop MPS blocking his no deal brexit and how exactly does it do that is that part of his powers prime minister to single-handedly suspend

3 (2m 36s):
Parliament. It's called pero gang Parliament. And usually it's a pretty typical thing that happens at the basically. It marks the end of one legislative session and the start of another but usually the suspension is only for a week or two and Johnson decided to do it for five weeks and it's only probably some of the five most Critical weeks considering that the suspension would have resumed on October 14th and the brexit deadlines the 31st of October which leaves Parliament with very very little time to do anything. That might foil Johnson's brexit plans. Mrs. Franco

2 (3m 14s):
The Lord's who are authorized by Her Majesty's commission to declare her royal assent to act passed by both houses and to also declare the progression of parliament desire the presence of this honourable house. Yeah.

1 (3m 31s):
How did it go over with Parliament?

3 (3m 33s):
They definitely created a stir they were protesting the

2 (3m 37s):
move. Criticizing Boris Johnson. This is not a standard or normal corrugation. It is not difficult. It is not standard. It's one of the longest for decades and it represents not just in the minds of many colleagues, but huge numbers of people outside and active executive be at you know

3 (4m 10s):
members of his own party for a little bit queasy about his tactics But ultimately what it really helped to do was kind of focus the opposition and kind of got them all together to figure out how they were going to stop Boris Johnson. And what did they do? They basically seized control and the reason they wanted to do this was so that they could pass legislation that would attempt to prevent Boris Johnson from taking the UK out of the European Union without a deal on October 31st. So kind of a way to force him to ask the European Union for an extension and this happened on a day when Johnson ended up actually losing his majority in Parliament.

3 (4m 51s):
He already had a working majority of just one member and while he was talking one MP who was a conservative walked over during his speech to the liberal Democrats, which is a pro remain party and joined.

2 (5m 8s):
Our exports to the United States. It's kind of an incredible moment, right? It literally

1 (5m 12s):
happens while

2 (5m 13s):
Boris Johnson is speaking in

1 (5m 15s):
Parliament. One of his own party members gets up and walks across

2 (5m 19s):
the aisle and sits with his opposition Oda ask the house to have some regard to how our proceedings are viewed by people outside the chamber. I will always be

3 (5m 32s):
yeah, it really is remarkable. I mean that a prime minister can lose his majority and probably the most humiliating of Fashions and somehow still be the prime minister of the country.

1 (5m 44s):
How did he take that

3 (5m 45s):
move? He basically was not happy and he told pretty much all of Parliament that if you defy me and vote for this No Deal block, which essentially forces Johnson to seek an extension from the European Union, which is what he said, he would not do His campaign promise he tries to force Parliament to give him election so we can essentially get a new Parliament to give him what he wants but Parliament defies him again refusing to vote for his elections handing Johnson about three defeats and as many

1 (6m 21s):
days has this been like a hit to the Boris Johnson ego that we're all sort of familiar

3 (6m 25s):
with I can't speak to Johnson State of Mind or his ego. But obviously, he's tried to forge ahead and all he's gotten his resistance and that includes from his own family

1 (6m 36s):
members write his brother. There's been another dramatic twist in Britain's brexit Saga and a major blow for prime minister

2 (6m 43s):
Boris Johnson his brother Joe has stepped down as a conservative MP and government Minister. Mr. Johnson tweeted that he was torn between family loyalty and the national

3 (6m 53s):
interest and although other MPS and ministers have quit. Nothing gets worse than your own brother being like man. I Can't Stand By and Watch You and I think Sort of sums up or is very symbolic of the Omni shambles that's going on in British politics right now and I believe on the same day. He had a press conference where he was a little bit

2 (7m 15s):
wild. Can you make a promise today to the British public that you will not go back to Brussels and ask for another delay to brexit. Yes. And so yeah and would you bother I'd rather be dead in a ditch. So

3 (7m 30s):
at the very least he doesn't seem to be cowed by his own brother's defection. So where does that leave

1 (7m 36s):
Boris Johnson's brexit plan and this parliamentary suspension that's got some people up in

3 (7m 40s):
arms. So at least for right now Parliament is suspended their on pause, but there have been a few legal challenges and one of them has gotten some traction last week in Scotland. The court said that Wood Johnson didn't was unlawful.

2 (7m 56s):
Its opinion expresses The View that the advice given by the government to her majesty the queen to parole Parliament from 9th, September 2 full In October was unlawful. And therefore the Prada gation itself is unlawful

3 (8m 11s):
that he was trying to block Parliament. And that was a big deal, you know and peas are protesting saying, oh we should be recalled back. The problem is courts in England and Northern Ireland said look, this is a political question. We can't get involved. So you have Scotland on the side of MPS and the other two courts just saying we want to stay out of it. And now the UK's highest court is going to have to make a decision and there will be hearings this week starting on Tuesday to figure out where they stand and if they're going to go the Scotland Direction and say yeah what Boris did was unlawful and illegal and that would be huge or they're just going to say we got to stay out of it guys you do you and the political realm this

1 (8m 58s):
decision from the Scottish Court was just one big development last week. Yeah, what's operation? Yellow Hammer

3 (9m 7s):
what it really is is the government's assessments about what could happen if the UK leaves European Union on the 31st without a deal feel sausages empty shelves medicine shortages widespread public unrest not a vision from a dystopian Hollywood film, but the British government's own assessment of what a No Deal brexit may look like the planning scenario codenamed operation. Yellow Hammer has now been published by the government weeks after being leaked to a newspaper and after opposition MPS forced its

2 (9m 36s):
publication and the government at the time it has to be said also it seems lives. They said that it was an old document before Boris Johnson came to power. We now know that that definitely wasn't true. It was drafted around 10 days after the Prime Minister came into power and as you mention

3 (9m 51s):
there and the reason why this will be bad is because I know deal Bragg's it's very complicated overnight the EU will and UK will end a 40-year trading relationship and some people have likened this to trying to remove an egg from an omelet. And there's absolutely no simple way to do it. And that's why you're having all of these effects and the fact that the government is saying this and its own documentation. It just was another reminder of what a mess. It could be if the UK doesn't have a plan at the end of the October

1 (10m 22s):
has this move the needle at all in the UK as far as how people feel about brexit the sort of disastrous few weeks for Boris Johnson

3 (10m 31s):
Boris Johnson still pretty popular with among conservatives and supporters of leaving the European Union and the UK is still almost evenly divided between people who want to remain in the European Union and people who want to leave the European Union and there's always a little bit of squishiness at the margins how that would play out in an election is harder to say, but at least from experts in polling sources that I've talked to if an election were held today Johnson looks like he would do pretty well and that's not necessarily because of his Exit plan, but also because opposition leader. Jeremy corbyn is extraordinarily

1 (11m 10s):
unpopular. If you hear about all this Anarchy in the UK and wonder who are these people who still want a brexit I've got great news for you. You're going to hear from one of them in 60 seconds or so. I'm Shawn Rama's Ferrum. This is today explained. Hello products my old friend.

1 (11m 52s):
I've come to talk about you again. Hello is a new kind of naturally friendly Oral Care that was created by a small independent crew using thoughtful ingredients. So delicious that you will rush to brush they make floss and mouthwash and toothpaste of course and guess what? They're all vegan cruelty free and free from artificial sweeteners flavors dies sulfates peroxide gluten, and maybe you're like, yeah shouldn't they be but guess what? Some of them aren't toothpaste mouthwash floss toothbrushes and more for adults and kids at hello products.com 10% off using the code.

1 (12m 35s):
Hello today again. Hello products.com 10% off with hello today. Join the move mint. You know movement shop now and brush happy. Hello products the movement. When I picture people who favor brexit, I mostly picture older white men people like prime minister Boris Johnson or Nigel farage. Who's the leader of the newish brexit party? I definitely don't picture Anaya Florin a man.

1 (13m 19s):
She's a 22 year old in leads the daughter of Nigerian immigrants who just graduated in Arabic and politics and she's not just into brexit. She's joined the newish brexit party as a parliamentary candidate. I asked her what inspired her to vote for brexit in the first place back in 2016.

3 (13m 40s):
Well, I think that a lot of the younger people haven't experienced life without the European Union. So it's kind of an endorsement of the politics of always in the politics of the status quo for me. It was fundamentally a democratic vote. It was about democracy having the ability to elect and remove the people that govern us for me. Fundamental and I know how hard that people have fought so hard over generations to have that right and to see it eroded in this way over the past decade for me Rex. It was the only way to really have power to make decisions over our lives in a meaningful

1 (14m 17s):
way for people who aren't familiar. How do you think democracy has been eroded in the UK because of the EU

3 (14m 24s):
the structure of the European is quite complex, but whether power lies is in the European commission and the European Council and they have quite profound influence over foreign policy Economic Policy trade policy. And for example, the situation in Greece a few years ago is quite a big demonstration of that how Greece was significantly struggling economically the European Central Bank in and the IMF and the European Union basically took control over their economy and there was almost nothing that they can do about it. So a lot of people talk about oh, yeah, but what about free movement of people and like, you know, no roaming charges if you go European country that's all well and good but what happens when they do something that you fundamentally disagree

1 (15m 6s):
with their is like sort of this anti-immigration tenor to the original brexit vote that it happened right in the midst of this wave of migration into Europe from the Middle East. Did that affect the way you voted at all? I mean sort of the the tenor of the conversation around brexit that there was sort of this nativist feel of

3 (15m 28s):
it. Yeah. I mean, I was definitely concerned about some of the rhetoric surrounding immigration as maybe like something that is inherently problematic but one of the reasons why I decided to stand is because I wanted to be a physical representation of an opposition to that narrative. I actually think that leaving the European Union is quite positive for the immigration debate because at the moment within the European Union, we have a two tiered system free movement of people from across Europe, but people from outside of the EU experience dehumanizing stringent measures and so in the words of Diane Abbott, which is a prominent anti-racist campaigner, but also passionate Romania in the UK.

3 (16m 12s):
She said that the our current immigration policy is effectively one rule for white people one rule for black people. So I actually think the logical response Bonds to the kind of anti-immigrant further in would be a universal fair in just immigration policy. That doesn't prioritize people because they're European.

1 (16m 30s):
Do you think someone like Boris Johnson in a post EU Britain would create a sort of flatlined immigration system for people from Europe and say people from Africa Asia anywhere else

3 (16m 46s):
possibly. I'm not a defender of Boris Johnson. I actually think that he's a political opportunist and he dilly-dallied throughout the campaign. He just, you know joined whatever movement he thought was going to win. So I think that he's never really been a committed brexit here in a meaningful sense.

1 (17m 1s):
What about Nigel farage the leader of the brexit party? He's not a big fan of immigration either is he

3 (17m 8s):
the thing is I've had conversation with him about this and conversation many people in the leadership and I do deeply believe that these people have been fundamentally mischaracterizing. I would not join a party. But I think propagates racism and anyway, and I think when we look at racism, I think people like to point to easy Targets in terms of what people have said, but they fail to meaningfully address and examine how racism has been entrenched structurally with success of parties in government. So when we look at the labor party, they were massive proponents on the war on terror and the kind of dehumanizing and criminalization of Muslim communities that conservative party have implemented policies such as something called the hostile environment, which literally means they want to make life for immigrant people here illegally hostile and uncomfortable.

3 (18m 2s):
So when I look at racism I look at what policies have actually been implemented when part is getting government and not necessarily just statements or provocative statements that people have

1 (18m 12s):
made but aligning yourself with someone like faraj doesn't feel uncomfortable for you like the the child of

3 (18m 19s):
immigrants. And I say that wholeheartedly I don't believe that he is racist and I fully Back Him.

1 (18m 26s):
Absolutely. Has all the turmoil in the past few weeks and months over achieving brexit soured you at all on it or major life more difficult as someone who who defends brexit in her day-to-day.

3 (18m 43s):
So me I think has been extremely exciting. I think that the brexit vote has unleashed the division and toxicity that's been at the heart of our governing system and I actually think although right now it's all up in the air and influx. I think that these divisions have been brought to the surface and only when they've been brought to the surface. I think can they be meaningfully dealt with and that's what I'm hoping to do.

1 (19m 8s):
It's created a kind of chaos though. Not just in the UK where you know, your own Department of Health is stockpiling medicine vaccine radioisotopes products. I've read medical devices because they're freaking out over what might come of no deal brexit, but all over Europe is well countries are are hiring more Customs officials and preparing for all sorts of tariffs that no one really knows what the look like. Is that a an ecosystem that you think could be good for it anyone

3 (19m 43s):
I think a lot of those things have been wholly exaggerated in order to whip up fear and and suspicion and just complete disillusionment in politics. Britain is the sixth largest economy in the world. If we are not able to make fundamental decisions and adapt and become versatile. Then what hope do we have for any movement for Meaningful Democratic

1 (20m 9s):
change. Are you considering the fact that the British government has said it's own economy the British economy could shrink as much as nine percent in like a worst-case scenario here.

3 (20m 19s):
That's a lot of these myths floating around but the reality is not materialized in the fear-mongering waivers that has been

1 (20m 26s):
proposed and I realize I don't live there. I'm an outsider. But I mean this is just over a month away this potential for a no-till brexit. Y'all don't look terribly prepared your governments in total

3 (20m 38s):
flux, but the thing is for us despite all of the chaos that's going on as a result of parliamentarians the spirit of brexit which was taking back control of our sovereignty our democracy and our economy hasn't changed. What has only changed is that we've seen more clearly that we need a fundamental shift and change in our democratic

1 (20m 58s):
system. I mean, I respect your dogged determination to make this thing happen in the face of every kind of adversity. That's that's pretty

3 (21m 9s):
incredible. I mean most revolutions that happened like violent and bloody and scary. This is a democratic Revolution and was something so significant. We can't expect it to all be you know, honey and golden roses that in the meantime, there's or going to be a short period of may be confusion and difficulty but the potentials after that for me is what really drives me and that sense of freedom and ability to really have a meaningful democracy. That's something I couldn't trade. Okay.

1 (21m 39s):
Good luck. Maybe we'll talk to you again. Once this thing goes through or doesn't or whatever happens in the next few weeks or

3 (21m 45s):
months. I hope it goes through I hope so.

1 (21m 49s):
Yeah I could tell. Thanks to hello products for supporting the show today their products are beautiful delicious and friendly and as natural as they can make them you can find their products at hello products.com and you can get 10% off when you use the promo code.

1 (22m 43s):
Hello today over there at hello products.com when you get to the website say hello for me.