0 (1s):
If Hamas wanted to get the world's attention with their attacks on Israel, they've been wildly successful. They got a war.

1 (9s):
The Israeli military is amassing troops and equipment along the border for a ground invasion that everyone knows is coming. But few know when it will start.

0 (18s):
They triggered an international diplomatic crisis. US

2 (22s):
Secretary of State Antoni Blinken met the Egyptian president after visits to Israel Jordans, the U A e, Bahrain Qatar and Saudi Arabia.

0 (29s):
They poured gasoline on the already eternal fire burning over this Israel and Palestine issue.

3 (38s):
Police in Paris fired water cannons and tear gas into a crowded pro-Palestinian rally. Here the protests have been banned by the interior minister who feared such gatherings would cause public disturbances.

0 (49s):
Practically everyone has an opinion. On today explained we're gonna do some facts. The history of Hamas Coming up on the show.

Canva (1m 0s):
Support for this episode comes from Canva who just launched Magic Studio, a set of AI powered tools that supports every part of your workflow. With, Magic, Studio. you can create custom designs from just a text prompt Generate sparkling copy in your brand's voice for any design or document, edit images or create new ones. Generate beautiful content fast. Track your first draft. automate tasks and design like an expert, all the power of AI, all in one place. Explore Magic studio at Canva dot com slash Magic.

4 (1m 32s):
And

PhRMA (1m 33s):
Here's your prescription. I know just the pharmacy to get this filled. Who are you? A pharmacy benefit manager, A middleman your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to. Why can't I go to a pharmacy in my neighborhood? Because I make more money when you go to a pharmacy I own. No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

8 (2m 11s):
You are listening to today. Explained

0 (2m 14s):
The United States and Israel and many of their allies officially designate Hamas as a terrorist organization. And as you may have heard in the past few days, not everyone agrees. In light of this new war, we wanted to find out how Palestinians see Hamas. So we reached out to Hald Al.

9 (2m 34s):
I am a professor of Middle Eastern studies at Northwestern University and Qatar, author of a couple of books in on the Palestinian issue, the Arabis, Israel Conflicts and Hamas, as we

0 (2m 46s):
So often do. We started at the start,

9 (2m 49s):
Haleema is, you can think of it as the product of a mother organization called the Muslim Brotherhood, which is again, very famous. you can see them in Egypt and Jordan in, in Pakistan, in Malaysia, maybe everywhere. So this is kind of the mother organization of Hamas. They have a Palestinian branch. It was called the Palestinian Muslim Brotherhood. And this was since mid 1940s. So they would focus on mosques, religious affairs, building, social networks, charities, and the rest of it. The business of resistance was left to other e ideologies, Marxist Nationalist and others.

9 (3m 31s):
So

0 (3m 31s):
Hamas was a charity organization. Well,

9 (3m 33s):
The mother organization of Hamas was a charity organization. I ironically speaking until 1987. In 1987, something big happened Wide the spread, a protest against the Israeli occupation.

10 (3m 48s):
The first Intifada marked the first time Palestinians from all parts of society began such an intense resistance. The protests evolved from boys throwing rocks and people marching to fighters attacking Israeli soldiers and military targets.

9 (4m 4s):
And that was kind of a very challenging moment for the Palestinian Muslim brother. Until that moment, we didn't have something called Haleema. So they face this choice. Either they refrain from participating in the uprising and in this case they're gonna lose their membership. They're gonna lose their face and their status within the Palestinian community, or they change their strategy and they gear up from charity into something meaningful in the eyes of the Palestinian that is resistance. So they reorganize themselves, reshape themselves under the name of Hamas.

0 (4m 43s):
By resistance, do you mean violent? Do you mean terrorism? Do you mean politics? What do you mean?

9 (4m 49s):
The very generic term resistance within the Palestinian, let's say context and language, it means using all means against the occupation. This could be violent means, this could be nonviolent means for the Palestinians. They say all these means are justified under, you know, the international law and un kind of resolutions. They would allow and justify using force and military force against any occupier, any in any part of the world. So this is kind of the source of legitimacy upon which, you know, the Palestinian resistance is anchored.

0 (5m 28s):
Okay, so Hamas becomes a sort of formal resistance movement in 1987. What do they say their mission is?

9 (5m 37s):
In 1988, they published the so-called charter. In this charter they tried to kind of outline the strategy. The main goals aims, perception of enemies and the friends and the rest of it. This charter was still kind of full of religious connotations, language loaded with Quranic verses. And they have been criticized, attacked because of that language. And even there are some kind of anti-Semitic tones in it. And the statements, the

1 (6m 8s):
Haleema charter is filled with anti-Semitic references to Jews being behind communism, being behind World War I, world War ii. It endorses the famous antisemitic conspiracy, the protocols of the elders of Zion, a global Jewish conspiracy.

9 (6m 22s):
Later on, two, three years after that, Hamas became kind of more mature, let's say in practice and more politics. So they started kind of to distance themselves from their own charter. Gradually,

12 (6m 34s):
When we are talking about the Jews, we are not against the religion. So we are against the one who is occupying our lands. We are against the one who is occupying our cities, villages.

0 (6m 45s):
Who is this organization attracting? Are they men? Are they young? Are they old? Are they students? Are they academics? Who are they?

9 (6m 54s):
All of these. All of the above. Hmm. I think it attracts two groups of people. One, the people who are nationalist, of course they want to liberate Palestine, they want to participate in the resistance. And the other group is the people who are religious. And the mixture of these two produces a new form of individuals. These are people who are religious ready to sacrifice themselves for the sake of Palestine because it's a nationalist slash religious idea.

0 (7m 29s):
So one arm of this organization that we haven't really touched upon yet is of course the one that the world is now probably most recognizing, which is terrorism. When does Hamas first get to be known as an organization that practices terrorism?

9 (7m 46s):
Of course, to start with, this is highly contentional terminology shown. So people, the Palestinians would frown upon you when you use this term, I know this is kind of the, the terminology used by in the, in the US in Europe and and elsewhere. But for the Palestinians, Hamas and other Palestinian groups are freedom fighters. Not necessarily everybody agrees on every single act that Haleema does, but by and large it's considered as a nationalist liberationist kind of group. But anyway, for the outside, for Israel to start with, Hamas was designated as a terrorist organization, as all other Palestinian attractions and Haleema continued to be seen as so until this very moment there is big difference.

9 (8m 33s):
However, that took a place, and this takes us in our discussion to another kind of maybe milestone that took a place in 1993.

13 (8m 43s):
The children of Abraham, the descendants of Isaac and Ishmael have embarked together on a bold journey together today with all our hearts and all our souls, we bid them Shalom Solin peace.

9 (9m 4s):
The official spokesperson of the Palestinians, the Palestine Liberation Organization signed Oslo Accords with Israel,

15 (9m 12s):
We who have fought against you. The Palestinians. We say to you today in a loud and a clear voice, enough of blood and tears.

9 (9m 26s):
The PLO is the umbrella of all Palestinian factions excluding Haleema. So the P l O agreed on Oslo accords saying our aspirations as a Palestinian people could be achieved through peace stocks. We recognize Israel. Yes, we make a huge compromise that is 78% of the historic land of Palestine from a Palestinian perspective. And we accept only 22% of the land to have a Palestinian state on it. That was the promise and the premise of us.

0 (10m 3s):
You're talking about the two state solution?

9 (10m 5s):
Yes.

14 (10m 6s):
The two men making these promises on behalf of their peoples were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize for peace. Arafat was held as a hero in Gaza after 27 years in exile, at least by a part of the Palestinians.

9 (10m 19s):
Haleema says, no, the entire land is for us from the Mediterranean Sea to Jordan River.

0 (10m 27s):
How does Hamas proceed at this point? You've got the Oslo Accords, you've got this two-state solution. They're not happy with the agreement. How do they go forward?

9 (10m 36s):
Hamas for a while, for a few years, in fact, after the after signing Oslo agreement became kinda somehow confused, slightly disorientated, and the popularity that also accords and Yasar Rafat gained because of the high hopes within the Palestinians at that time. So you have Hamas somehow marginalized. Now this kind of lasted maybe until 19 95, 96. Before that we have a very infamous incident on the

10 (11m 5s):
25th of February, 1994. An American Israeli, far-right settler Baruch Goldstein entered the mosque during prayers and started shooting. He killed 29 worshipers and wounded nearly 200.

9 (11m 17s):
And then Haleema vowed to retaliate and they did retaliate using a new strategy, new tactics. That is the suicide bombs.

16 (11m 28s):
The Islamic group. Hamas took responsibility for the attack and said the intention was to kill Israeli Air Force personnel aboard the bus.

0 (11m 36s):
So Hamas is conducting terrorist attacks, but they're not in power. They're political outsiders. Yeah, this

9 (11m 41s):
Is how, how it was seen in the eyes of Israel and and and the us. However, by 1999, the Palestinian should have a Palestinian state according to SLO Accords. And of course it didn't happen. And Hamas becomes stronger and stronger saying, we told you that is one of peace stocks are leading to nowhere. And since then, the Palestinian authority and the idea of also became undermined. And here comes kind of a very interesting story. 2003, George w Bosch led the so-called war on terror against countries and organizations designated as terrorists.

9 (12m 22s):
And that list included Hamas.

17 (12m 24s):
Our War on Terror begins with Al-Qaeda, but it does not end there. It will not end until every terrorist group of global reach has been found, stopped and defeated.

9 (12m 42s):
Haleema was of course, you know, extremely angry. We are not, we are liberation movement. Leading to that year, 2006 to circumvent, that's campaign. They decided to participate in the Palestinian elections,

18 (12m 58s):
The Islamic Hamus party winning a majority of seats in the Palestinian legislative council.

9 (13m 4s):
Winning the elections was not kind of the goal. So that was an ironic case of a political party running for elections, hoping not to win them. However, they won the elections and the Palestinians said, okay, you have been criticizing the Palestinian Authority for many years now. Here you go. Do much better than them if you can. You are on the show.

0 (13m 32s):
Hamas plus political power when we're back On today. explained

Canva (13m 44s):
Support for today's show comes from Canva for teams. Sometimes you see a presentation and you think, wow, that looks professional. Maybe they use a great font or a cohesive design language or some kind of special sauce that makes that presentation look so good. Well, Canva for Teams is making it easier than ever for anyone to make compelling and beautiful presentations. Canva for Teams is a design platform focused on helping users create stunning content. They've got templates, they've got fonts, they've got colors, they've got social media, they've got websites. They've got a video editor with a bunch of filters and animations and transitions. And Canva for teams might also be able to help you execute your social media plan. No matter how complex you can create schedule and share posts directly to all your channels from one place, you can collaborate with Canva for teams right now, you can get a free 45 day extended trial when you go to Canva dot me slash explained, that's cva.me/explained for a 45 day free extended trial, Canva dot me slash explained.

PhRMA (14m 46s):
And here's your prescription. I know just the pharmacy to get this filled. Who are you? A pharmacy benefit manager. A middleman your insurer uses to decide which medicines you can get, what you pay, and sometimes even which pharmacy you should go to. Why can't I go to a pharmacy in my neighborhood? Because I make more money When you go to a pharmacy I own. No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma

0 (15m 24s):
Today. Explained when we were last with you, Hamas had just kind of unexpectedly won an election. Israel of course was not happy. This organization that had been terrorizing them was now in charge of Gaza. So Israel blockades, Gaza

21 (15m 41s):
Tonight, special correspondent Fred Deam. Lazaro reports from the Gaza Strip, a region the United Nations predicts will be uninhabitable by next year.

22 (15m 50s):
The United Nations says just 10% of gaza's, 2 million people have access to safe drinking water along the beach. Each day. Young men drag in a meager catch. Food is scarce. They said

23 (16m 3s):
Palestinians and aid workers say that the lack of food, medicine, fuel and basic supplies has made the situation in the Gaza Strip quote catastrophic.

0 (16m 11s):
We asked Professor Halal Al rub how Hamas responded.

9 (16m 15s):
A number of things militarily speaking, they relied on, on smuggling weapons in terms of the basics for living and for the gadens in, in, in the region. Life was designed to be, as it was put by one Israeli leader. I think we are gonna starve them, but not letting them die. So we keep them kind of struggling. We keep them all the time trying to keep their survival and in this case, they consume their energy in this process. That was the situation of Gaza Strip since 2007, when

0 (16m 55s):
Hamas gains political power, do the suicide bombing stop, do these sort of terrorists terrorist style tactics against Israel stop?

9 (17m 5s):
Yes. In 2005, Hamas, that is one year before the elections, Hamas decided to stop all these kind of tactics, you know, especially the suicide attacks. And they decided to do their utmost effort to join the p l o. And a third main decision was to take part in the elections. When they became in power, all these kind of measures became behind their back, kind of rehabilitating themselves to the new phase, if you like, to the political phase of Haleema that we are kind of ready to be part of the parliament, to be part of the political process and so on and so forth.

0 (17m 44s):
How long does that last?

9 (17m 46s):
Two years. Only 2005. 2006 into 2007 when the split took place between fatter and Hamas in 2007. And then Israel started kind of applying more pressure on Hamas and the Gaza Strip. And a year after that, 2008, the first war on Gaza under the rule of Hamas was launched.

24 (18m 10s):
Israel continues to bomb the territory for a third consecutive day hitting targets across the area overnight and into Monday.

0 (18m 20s):
And how does that war resolve?

9 (18m 21s):
Hamas feared, not kind of impressively great in the eyes of the Palestinians, but they started the business of rockets launching rockets later on in the years they started manufacturing them and building more expertise and the skills in making these rockets more kind of effective on the Palestinian civilian side. However, the coast was very, very high and then the blockade started to tighten not only on Hamas, but also on the entire area

25 (18m 53s):
As a death toll crosses a grim mark. More than 1000 Palestinians killed in less than three weeks of Israeli attack. Two,

9 (19m 2s):
Three years after that, 2012 there was another war. And then 2014, another war,

26 (19m 8s):
More than a thousand Palestinians and more than 40 Israelis have been killed since the conflict began three weeks ago.

0 (19m 15s):
So we get into a cycle where Israel and Hamas are just going to war every few years. It obviously feels like we're in another round of that cycle right now. How does Hamas stay in power for so long? They're elected into office in 2006. It's now 2023. Are they that popular?

9 (19m 35s):
There are no elections in the Palestinian scene until now. Neither presidential elections nor legislative elections. So for some people would say Hamas' rule is illegitimate because it is not elected. The reason behind this is that Israel says they wouldn't allow elections in East Jerusalem

28 (19m 59s):
For these legislative elections. As in the past, the Israelis refused access to the city for Palestinian election officials, candidates, and campaigns, and allowed only a small number of Palestinian residents to participate with their votes. Cast as absentee ballots in Israeli post offices.

9 (20m 16s):
East Jerusalem is considered as part of the occupied territories in 1967. The Palestinians say this is part of the future Palestinian state. Israel says, no, this is part of unified Jerusalem. We are not going to allow any elections in this Jerusalem. And many Palestinians left there, of course the majority. And so because of this, there are no elections. It's kind of very difficult to say how popular they are in the Gaza Strip. Unemployment, for example, in the Gaza Strip is, is the highest in the world, more than 60%.

9 (20m 56s):
Health services are extremely bad. People die, you know, waiting for permission to go outside Gaza Strip for medical care and and service. So it's oblique situation. Haleema says this is because of the blockade. The people say, yes, it is because of the blockade, but you are the reason of the blockade as well. Hamas replies saying, well I am doing this for Palestine and for resistance. So you have all these kind of debates going around after every single war. Haas's support goes up, ironically speaking, and then during peace time people would point their finger to the bad services and Haleema support goes, goes down.

0 (21m 40s):
You've got this cycle of wars going on. And then you haven't had an election since 2006 when Hamas initially took power. Do we have any idea how the people in Gaza feel about the events of last weekend?

9 (21m 55s):
Definitely in the first day or the second day until now. In fact, you, they were kinda bil, they were extremely happy. Hamas was seen as the only Palestinian, not only Palestinian, the only even Arab force that could inflect such harm. And the humiliation on the Israeli army. This army that defeated Arab countries, Arab armies, once or twice, three times. And they have this kind of image of we being the most powerful and mighty force in the region. So Hamas is, it's not kind of an official army. And they managed to go after the Israeli army and deep into Israeli controlled territory.

9 (22m 38s):
30, 40 kilometers for the Palestinians. Now they turn the blind eye on the bad practices and, and and others. But that was it.

0 (22m 47s):
People obviously aren't jubilant anymore. Like how do they feel about Hamas now that Gaza's being destroyed? Well,

9 (22m 53s):
That's the bigger question. Nobody expected. The scale of retaliation that Israel is doing now. What we are seeing now is total kind of flattening of the entire city.

29 (23m 5s):
An ambulance with a young girl and wounded woman inside rocked by explosions as they attempt to flee. There're among the tens of thousands of people on the move after Israel's military called on nearly half of Gaza's population, some 1.1 million people to get south in a matter of hours.

9 (23m 24s):
For some people they use the terminology of genocide, even

30 (23m 27s):
Others like N R C. The Norwegian Refugee Council has warned against the risk of a humanitarian ethnic cleansing.

9 (23m 35s):
The death toll is, is hitting 3000 people now. So this is unexpected in this kind of short span of time. So definitely for me, we will have big questioning time that Haleema would face.

0 (23m 48s):
What do you think its next chapter is?

9 (23m 51s):
Well, this is the $1 million question. In fact, I really don't know. It depends on the end game of the this invasion or this Israeli attack. If the threats of ground invasion materializes, I think we are gonna enter a new chapter whereby maybe the Haas could be, let's say, destroyed and dismantled or the main branches of it. But this would open another chapter, meaning where would the Hamas military wing go? Would it be fragmented into smaller plenary groups? More radical than the mother organization in this case Hamas.

9 (24m 34s):
What Israel is gonna do about them. In fact, now we are dealing with one organization, political one. They have calculations, they go back and forth. But with smaller groups, totally unaccountable to any central command. Maybe you are kind of multiplying your difficulties. So again, it's really very difficult situation. Very difficult to Questions facing everyone.

0 (25m 10s):
Professor Hall, Al, HARB, middle Eastern Studies at Northwestern University in Qatar. He's written a bunch of books about Palestine, including one called Hamas, a beginner's Guide. Our show today was produced by Halima Shaw and Si Petros. We were edited by Matthew Collette. Fact checked by Serena Solin and mixed by Patrick Boyd. I'm Sean Ramez firm. This is today explained.