1 (0s):
You know the drill support for the show today comes from the marketplace show called million bazillion in partnership with brains on it's a new podcast for kids and their families. That's all about money how it works how we use it where it comes from and how we could all get a little bit smarter about it. But in a fun way million bazillion helps dollars, make more sense. You can listen And subscribe. Truly wherever you listen And subscribe. by

4 (31s):
the federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge Biden can lead on reproductive Freedom by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions the time to end hide is now paid for by American civil liberties Union Inc rights for all dot-org

1 (1m 16s):
President Donald J. Trump spent the weekend at a golf course in New Jersey, but that didn't stop him from trying to solve some of the nation's most pressing problems namely the fact that Congress still hasn't come to an agreement on coronavirus relief leaves. Oh, you've been covering that effort for Vox. It looks like the president had a very busy

4 (1m 36s):
weekend. He died. He is trying to show people that he can get something done while Congress is dead. And stimulus and you ended up is suing for executive measures in an attempt to address this issue.

1 (1m 50s):
And that's very confusing right off the Jump because the president doesn't control the purse strings of this

4 (1m 56s):
country. Correct, correct? That's already prompted a ton of confusion ever since he made the

1 (2m 1s):
announcement. Well, I guess it's still important though because the president so let's talk about what he did. What are in these for executive measures and why are there four of them

4 (2m 12s):
there? R4 because he's trying to address some of the major areas that have been brought up as key points people would like to see more money on so the four subjects that they touch on are extending enhanced unemployment insurance some type of support for evictions differing payroll taxes and continuing a suspension of student loan payments.

1 (2m 36s):
Okay. So the President addresses this, you know expanded unemployment insurance. Moratoriums payroll tax student loans. Is there anything

4 (2m 46s):
missed there's a lot that's missing including no second round of stimulus payments no additional funding for small businesses and no additional money for state and local governments or schools.

1 (3m 0s):
And those are some pretty big messes.

4 (3m 2s):
These are all huge priorities for people as the economy tries to recover from the pandemic and is places like schools. Try to reopen this

1 (3m 11s):
fall. All right. Well within these four executive measures addressing these four things that people really care about how good a job is the president doing of, you know, delivering the

4 (3m 22s):
goods he is unfortunately not doing such a great job in several of the cases actually three out of the four it actually seems like people won't really see any clear effects for quite a while in the first case for extending enhanced unemployment insurance. The goal is to continue to give people An extra $400 a week via this executive

1 (3m 46s):
order. So that's 400 instead of the earlier 600. That's correct. The

4 (3m 51s):
problem with how he's implemented it is that a hundred dollars of the 400 is something he likes states to chip in for which is something that many places just don't have the money to do at this point. And additionally he wants to set up a new system to put out these payments to people and that alone is set to take months to actually complete. So people wouldn't be seeing these unemployment benefits for a long time. Hmm.

1 (4m 17s):
So it's going to take awhile to get the money and on top of that he wants states to chip in for about 1/4 of it. Did he consult the states on that before making this call?

4 (4m 26s):
It definitely doesn't seem like he did because many have already pushed back and said they won't be able to handle this additional costs as they struggle to cover Current public health needs and as their tax revenues have gone down during the pandemic

1 (4m 42s):
so A great outlook on that one. What about the other ones

4 (4m 45s):
in the other Keith is we see some similar issues? For example, he's framed the executive order focusing on addictions as similar to the eviction moratorium that happened earlier this year in the care is act when it actually is not what the memo that he put out actually does is it simply asks HHS and the CDC to consider extending a band and it asks other federal agencies to look? Look for money to help people with evictions. So it's really just the first step in getting anything done. But does it promised anything concrete at this

1 (5m 20s):
moment? Not the best news for people expecting help from the government. Not the best news for people expecting some sort of ban on evictions from the government what else one of his chief goals so far has

4 (5m 33s):
been to implement some kind of payroll tax cut and this time around he has tried to Institute a holiday which would defer payroll. Taxes for people making under a hundred and four thousand dollars a year until after the end of this year and the goal of that is for people in that income bracket to basically see an income boost in that time. But again, that's not expected to happen because since this is just a deferral many companies might continue to withhold the same taxes that they have because they'll end up having to pay them anyway after the years

1 (6m 8s):
over. Hmm. Okay, so that covers three we got the The direct Aid to people we got the eviction moratorium payroll tax. What about the fourth one? The one about student loans?

4 (6m 18s):
So that's the only one that's actually seen as relatively effective it continues. What was that up earlier this year? And the cares act. It suspends the interest on student loans that are backed by the federal government and its suspend payments through the end of this

1 (6m 32s):
year Well, I'm sure a lot of people will at least really appreciate that why go through all the effort to just like with on the other three,

4 (6m 40s):
I think like what we've seen with Past he really wants to show people that he's doing something but the substance of the policy he's proposing doesn't necessarily always match up with those goals.

1 (6m 52s):
How do his fellow party members feel about it? What are the Republicans

4 (6m 55s):
saying? It's a mixed reaction from Republicans. You have some that have responded with your typical political response of the president is doing something when Democrats have failed and that's the message that they want to keep on repeating over and over on the other hand. You do have some Republicans like Ben Sasse, for example who are really concerned with the Constitutional implications of what he's doing and

1 (7m 19s):
what about the Democrats? I imagine they're not big fans.

4 (7m 22s):
Yep. They are not fans of this for a couple of reasons. They think what he's doing doesn't really cover the full needs of what people require at this time, and I've called his proposal half-baked and

3 (7m 34s):
narrow. It doesn't do anything. It is the American people. Look at these executive orders. They'll

1 (7m 40s):
see they don't come close to doing the job.

4 (7m 42s):
And then also much like some of the Republicans they're concerned to about the Constitutional implications

1 (7m 49s):
here as in is any of this legal rights? And that

4 (7m 54s):
is something that Trump himself has also

1 (7m 56s):
acknowledged. Well, you always get sued. I mean everything you do you get sued. I was suit on the Travel ban and we want I was to it on a lot of things and we want so we'll see ya probably we get sued but people feel that we can do

4 (8m 9s):
it and we're expecting it to get challenged. And in courts pretty quickly

1 (8m 22s):
more with Lee

2 (8m 23s):
after a quick break.

3 (8m 43s):
This episode is brought to you by a vast a global leader in cybersecurity committed to making your life online a lot. Safer. Avast is trusted by more than 435 million users to keep their data safe and their devices protected from nasty malware and other viruses Avast has a whole Suite of tools to keep your identity protected and your online actions hidden from prying eyes no matter what part of your Digital Life you want to protect Avast has you covered a great place to get started is with a vast. Premium security. It forts all online threats including ransomware virus has and spoofed websites built to steal your information or check out a vast secure line VPN, which encrypts your internet connection no matter what Wi-Fi network you're on if you use a lot of public networks that coffee shops or airports where your data is, especially vulnerable.

3 (9m 32s):
This is the tool for you. Avast also has services like a vast cleanup premium, which helps get rid of your cyber junk to make your computer as Snappy as it was when you first bought it. It they offer a ton of other products to help solve every online security problem. You could imagine don't worry about viruses phishing attacks ransomware hacking attempts and cyber crime again a vast products are there to protect you learn more about Avast privacy security and performance products at a

4 (9m 59s):
vast.com. The federal government has blocked access to abortion for people with low incomes for over 40 years through the Hyde Amendment a ban on abortion coverage that hurts people enrolled in Medicaid and other insurance programs enough is enough Joe Biden pledge to an ACLU volunteer that he'd end the Hyde Amendment and if elected we need him to follow through on that pledge the polls show Biden ahead of trump with almost a 20-point lead with women the message on reproductive freedom. Is clear and Joe Biden has an opportunity to lead by removing bands on coverage in his first budget and refusing to sign bills with hide restrictions.

4 (10m 42s):
The time to end hide is now paid for by American civil liberties Union Inc rights for all

2 (10m 48s):
dot-org.

1 (10m 54s):
We a few weeks ago in an episode titled stimulating America. I talked to our colleague Matthew yglesias about the relief Congress was working on the Republicans version and the Democrats version what happened to those plans.

4 (11m 6s):
Unfortunately Democrats and Republicans are in pretty much the same place. They were in when you all had that conversation. They've been at a roadblock over what they'd like to see in the stimulus for almost two weeks at this point.

3 (11m 21s):
The coronavirus is certainly not over. It's still an enormous problem is still affecting communities all across the country and I think the American people would like to see us working together and get an outcome like we did back in March and April

1 (11m 37s):
we talked about the sort of disagreement between Democrats and Republicans the two trillion dollar disagreement on how much money to spend to stimulate the United States. What were the major sticking points in the debate between Democrats and Republicans over that two trillion dollars?

4 (11m 54s):
There are a couple big

2 (11m 55s):
Provisions

4 (11m 58s):
the first of which is money for state and local governments, which Democrats and Republicans have disagreed on for a long time Democrats think that states and local governments need more money right now in order to Simply cover Public Services because they've seen such huge declines in tax

3 (12m 14s):
revenue to do that. We must act boldly to support state and local entities to address coronavirus related Outlaws outlays and lost Revenue. Due to the coronavirus we all know that we must put more money in the pockets of the American people. This is not only necessary for their survival, but it is also a stimulus to the economy

4 (12m 34s):
Republicans think that offering this money would help States address Budget shortfalls that they might have been experiencing even before the pandemic. So they're resistant to this idea.

3 (12m 44s):
They want to bail out cities and states that have done a bad job over a long period of time nothing to do with coronavirus or China virus or whatever. You want to call them the second.

4 (12m 54s):
To is this question of how much more unemployment insurance the government wants to continue funding for people in the cares act. They included an additional $600 a week that the federal government would cover for people and Democrats want to keep that going through the end of next January. What do the Republicans and the White House have against Working Families in our country

3 (13m 18s):
that they would begrudge them $600 of so well. Absolutely necessary

4 (13m 25s):
sustenance Republicans. However, think that's too much money and they want to reduce the weekly amount to about two hundred dollars and then ultimately pay people what would amount to 70% of their pre-existing wages before the pandemic

3 (13m 42s):
when you pay people more not to work than they would get working. What do you expect people will not work

4 (13m 52s):
and that question continues. To be a big issue moving forward.

1 (14m 0s):
What are the arguments that Republicans are making opposing the Democrats, you know obviously much more liberal spending plan.

4 (14m 8s):
The Republicans are basically saying that right now our debt is already too high and if we're going to talk about a three trillion dollar package, that's just a sizable amount to add to the debt. I think that concern is something that a lot of people do have but it's outweighed by the fact that we really need this money right now and that Really need support as businesses are closed. And as many places have been forced to shutter because of Public Health restrictions. So that is one big piece of why you see a larger number of Republicans increasingly opposing any more stimulus at all as it's

3 (14m 46s):
written to my right now. I'm not only a no I'm a hell no and and sadly, I think this is envisioned as an opening Gambit. We everyone expects the Democrats to come back with a huge wish list of

4 (14m 59s):
spending some of them. The most vocal members doing this have been Rand Paul Ted Cruz and Ben Sasse. They've all really argued that this is unsustainable and a lot of people see it as them positioning themselves for the future as people who continue to stay in for fiscal conservatism a key tenet that the Republican party has long used to you know, say it's a defining quality for them.

3 (15m 27s):
I'm very upset with my colleagues that went eight years. They should have College eyes now to President Obama for complaining that he was spending and borrowing too much. He was a piker compared to their borrowing that they're doing now. So yes these Republicans, you know, they should have to apologize and they should by law be forbidden from ever saying that they're fiscally conservative how

1 (15m 47s):
much water does that argument carry with the American people. I mean, obviously the idea of going further trillions of dollars further into debt isn't appealing to the average person, but I just wonder generally how Americans are weighing that against a not having enough money for rent or not having enough money to provide for their families

4 (16m 10s):
in this moment. It doesn't feel like it's carrying a ton of water with voters who are concerned about a lot of the things that you mentioned for Republicans. There is a contingent of their base which is more conservative that we expect to probably way fiscal conservatism as a key part. Why they're supporting certain lawmakers. So for that small group of people, I think one poll found that it was 33 percent of Republican voters the issue of the debt does seem to surpass maybe other current economic concerns that people are seeing but for by and large for the most part it's not an issue that most voters are as concerned about as the immediate problems that are facing themselves.

4 (16m 56s):
Hmm.

1 (16m 57s):
How are the sort of Debates playing out politically for each party. I mean Democrats want to give more money. I imagine to all of the states regardless of whether they're blue or red or purple Republicans are saying no Democrats want to give the same amount of money to all Americans regardless of party affiliation. Republicans are saying no are each party's constituents on board with each party's positions

4 (17m 27s):
at this point most And then both parties are supportive of what Democrats are pushing. When you look at polling and overwhelming majority across party lines is interested in more stimulus is supportive of more unemployment insurance and the larger political Fallout that we can expect to see from this at least in the short term is probably going to hurt Republicans more because they are the party in power in the White House and also the party in power in the Senate as well.

1 (17m 57s):
You're saying it being an election year. Here this fight over stimulus could have some election-year implications. That's

4 (18m 4s):
right. Yes, especially for republicans in Battleground States stimulus could ultimately be an issue that tips over swing voters who are unhappy with how they've handled this whole process.

1 (18m 18s):
Which states are we talking about here? Shout out some names?

4 (18m 20s):
Yeah, some of the state's I think that are going to sound really familiar to people including Maine, Arizona, North Carolina and, Colorado. Are just a few of the places where you see current incumbent Republicans who are very vulnerable and concerns that the ongoing issues with the economy and the lack of action from Congress to address it are going to be held against them in

1 (18m 43s):
November. What are the Senators representing those States saying are they are they on board with the president's executive orders? Are they saying we need to have more conversations with Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer.

4 (18m 54s):
They have tried to propose some of their own efforts to indicate that. Are getting something

3 (18m 60s):
done Mitt Romney Susan Collins Martha McSally, they're talking about either an 80 percent wage replacement for states or declining amount $500 a week in August 400 September $300 in

4 (19m 11s):
October, but would be more generous than what Republicans have proposed. And additionally they have similarly taken that line of trying to call out democrats for being the ones they see as obstructing the process even though Democrats have said that they passed their own stimulus months ago. So it's not on them. Point and

1 (19m 31s):
all told with with the president's executive orders and the continuing fight in Congress over how to spend this money and how much money to spend and the legal challenges. You said that we're all but sure to see in the coming days. I mean where does this leave all of those Americans who are struggling? I mean are they getting zero additional unemployment insurance right now from the federal government and if so, how long will that

4 (19m 57s):
last? Yes right. Now what? We're seeing is people receiving the standard unemployment benefit that they get without any federal Edition. And that's a huge range. The average amount is about $370 Nationwide but States actually implement the system themselves, so it can vary in Oklahoma. For example, the average is around forty four dollars, which is a lot less and so people are seeing that hit immediately and they're basically in a holding period until As figure something out and until any of the effects we talked about from Trump's executive orders actually take

1 (20m 35s):
place. And when might that be I mean, when does that go into effect if at all

4 (20m 41s):
it is really unclear at this point and I think that's why there's so much criticism of Trumps actions. We don't know when that's going to happen and the expectation from experts is because his version of unemployment insurance is supposed to require setting up a whole new system it Ali could be weeks and even months until the next steps are fully

2 (21m 3s):
taken. So people

1 (21m 9s):
are just gonna have to what

4 (21m 12s):
maintained until then right? Yeah. That is the I think the worst part of all of this is the expectation is just for people to hold out until they get any more update on that

1 (21m 30s):
these oh reports on Congress for Vox. She'll have updates for you at Vox.com as soon as we have them. I'm Sean Rama's Forum. Its today explained.