1 (9s):
The war in Afghanistan is over, but the war on terror is not. You may have noticed a few days ago when you heard that us forces had flown into Syria to kill a terrorist.

2 (21s):
So this is a man named Abu Abrahim, Al Hashimi Al Qureshi, and he was the current leader of ISIS.

1 (29s):
And this is investigative journalist osmotic con.

2 (33s):
He was known for having played a role in the slave trade that ISIS ran of Yazidi, the minorities. He was also known to have been involved in encouraging different ISIS sleeper cells to stage prison attacks, to release ISIS prisoners. And so he was somebody that was much coveted by the Americans and someone they had been watching for some time, according to administration officials,

1 (1m 2s):
It says there was something different about this raid, and she would know she's been investigating and suing the Pentagon over civilian casualties in the war on terror. For years on the show today, we're going to try and figure out whether the U S military can continue to wage this war on terror without killing innocent people. And we're going to start with this one raid that took place a few days ago in Syria, where again, things felt a little different.

2 (1m 30s):
They had a tip several months ago that a senior leader was living in the top level of a home in Northwest Syria. And they watched him for quite some time. They modeled his home. They say they planned for this attack. And when they carried it out, by that time, you know, they kind of took a different approach to what we've seen in which they had ground troops conduct. This raid

3 (2m 1s):
That this terrorist had chosen surround himself with families, including children. We made a choice to pursue a special forces raid at a much greater risk to our own people, rather than targeting him with an airstrike.

2 (2m 14s):
Officials say they did this so that they could minimize civilian harm. So that civilians who lived in this house, there were families. There were wives, there were children that they would have a chance to be spared. Two dozen commandos are deployed to this part of Syria. They arrive in helicopters, they land, they stake out this house, this house where this leader lives on the top floor, they believe, and they go to houses next door. They ask civilians to leave the area.

4 (2m 48s):
The grandson of one local resident told channel four news. He was woken by what sounded like planes overhead

5 (2m 55s):
. We were peacefully sleeping. When we heard the war planes. When I woke up, everyone was crying and frightened. The wall plane was very loud. It sounded like an earthquake. And then I had,

2 (3m 8s):
And then using a bull horn, according to many residents, who'd been interviewed, they call out to those inside the house.

6 (3m 16s):
<em></em> <em></em> Harley now <em></em>

2 (3m 27s):
And basically say the equivalent of, you know, we want to spare the children. We want to spare the innocent, send them out and turn yourselves in. And that didn't happen. So administration officials say that this particular leader detonated explosives on the top level that killed civilians. You know, they also say there was a firefight with one of his top lieutenants on a lower floor of the home that resulted in that particular lieutenant's wife and children dying. It's unclear exactly what happened. You know, which deaths were the result of that alleged detonation and which were the result of, you know, maybe a potential firefight, but it is clear that there were some casualties which may have been the result of either party.

7 (4m 14s):
The strong indications are here is that, that, that the lives taken in this operation to lives of innocence taken in this operation were caused by a doula and his decision to blow him himself up. And everybody else with him on that third floor, as well as the resistance of his Lieutenant on the second floor, we're willing to take a look to just examine and make sure

1 (4m 41s):
Is the world safer without Abu Abraham Hashemi I'll create Shi in it. What was this guy doing in Syria? Was he just hiding out or was he organizing terrorist attacks or what?

2 (4m 56s):
So we've been told that he was influencing many to attack prisons, prisons, where ISIS leaders, where ISIS members fighters are being held in an effort to lead to a resurgence of the group.

8 (5m 13s):
This morning scores are dead after a mass prison break at a jail holding suspected ISIS fighters.

2 (5m 18s):
I said, set off a car bomb, a suicide bomb that resulted in pandemonium and people breaking free. And there are hundreds who've been killed. We don't even know the full number yet. Some of whom were SDF fighters who were trying to retake this prison

8 (5m 35s):
Writers inside the facility, clashing with security personnel, allowing hundreds of prisoners to rise up seize weapons from their jailers and fleet.

2 (5m 43s):
We've also been told by several different organizations, as well as reporters who've looked at this, that he had been involved in the slave trade that ISIS conducted of UCD minorities. And so he's somebody who, you know, certainly has been involved in incredibly pernicious activity. But the question of, you know, are we safer? What we've seen is that when you target a high level leader, they are fairly quickly replaced and you can keep taking people out, but that doesn't necessarily address the structural problem that we have to begin with. Do

1 (6m 17s):
We know how many people died in this raid total? So

2 (6m 20s):
I want to be careful about what numbers I use because we have conflicting numbers. I know that the white helmets, a group that was involved in some of the rescue efforts at the scene afterwards said that they had taken out 13 people, including six children and four women, and that the administration or the Pentagon specifically had said that they were the deaths of five combatants and four civilians. And, you know, you have to be careful with, with the exact counts here about who the government might consider a civilian and who they might not, but certainly we know that children were killed. And I always say that it takes time, especially at the scene to really evaluate what happened and who was killed.

2 (7m 4s):
And so there are these competing numbers, and I would just urge a little bit of caution and in applying certainty to them,

1 (7m 13s):
How did the us government characterize this rate? What was their sort of verdict on how

2 (7m 20s):
So immediately afterwards, they called this a successful rate,

7 (7m 24s):
His death, we believe dealt a significant blow.

2 (7m 29s):
And as you know, news came out that the white helmets were saying that children had been killed, that there appeared to be civilians. Who'd also been killed. People started to call this into question. And so, you know, president Biden came forth to do a briefing about this. So did Pentagon leaders. And you know, what we learned is that they had been planning this for several months, that they took a great deal of precautions. They say to protect civilians, even at the risk of us troops, by putting them on the ground, rather than conducting an airstrike or doing this from a distance.

7 (8m 5s):
And while the cowardly actions of Haji Della and a small number of his followers resulted in the death, the tragic death of at least three innocent civilians, the calculated efforts of our forces succeeded in protecting more than 10 women, children abuse.

2 (8m 23s):
And it's true. We've seen certainly casualties results from that in the past. So for example, the raid on Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi that for example, did kill civilians. You know, there is some credence to what the administration is saying that they undertook risk to do this in a manner that would prevent civilian death, but civilians

1 (8m 43s):
Died.

2 (8m 44s):
Anyway, this is complicated. I think it's complicated because you can see the precautions that were taken here, which is not the norm to deploy ground troops is rare to allow that risk is rare. So you certainly see greater efforts at the same time. I think that there is an incredible credibility gap when the Pentagon says anything about casualties In a reporting over years that have shown that what the Pentagon claims is often not, does not turn out to be the case, that something that might be dubbed a righteous strike turned out to be misidentification.

1 (9m 23s):
And then what did you find in your investigation?

2 (9m 26s):
The most shocking thing I found was just how bad this intelligence intelligence that we're told is so pristine is so vetted, could actually be. And that sometimes it was people who were not in the military who were best able to analyze that intelligence and actually warn about civilian loss.

9 (10m 5s):
I'm Heather Cox

10 (10m 6s):
Richardson, and I'm Joanne Freeman.

9 (10m 8s):
We're the hosts of now. And then a weekly podcast that looks to the American past to make sense of our current political and cultural climate.

10 (10m 16s):
There's been a wave of headlines recently about book bands, school boards and state governments are trying to outlaw the teaching of books that they find objectionable from art Spiegelman's mouse to Toni Morrison's the bluest eye

9 (10m 30s):
This week on now. And then we're releasing the first episode of a three-part series.

10 (10m 36s):
The series we'll dive deep into past book panics, explore why public school so often become ideological battlegrounds and dissect the interplay between book bands and political bullying.

9 (10m 48s):
Join us as we try to make sense of the role that bands have played in our national culture and explain why we're seeing so many bands today,

10 (10m 56s):
Listen for free on apple cafe.com or wherever you get your podcasts.

11 (11m 4s):
Hi, I'm Kara Swisher in just a few weeks. I'm heading to Miami to drive Scott Galloway crazy, and, and actually to have a conference with him. It's not because we like the beach, although we do it's because Miami is the perfect backdrop for pivot Mia, a brand new three-day event, hosted by us, of course, and also featuring the biggest and boldest names in tech, FinTech, media, education, climate, and more. There's still time to apply to see speakers like Sandeep Mathrani CEO of work, Kathy sabot, president and chief commercial officer of boom Meredith cobot, Levian, president CEO of the New York times, David M. Solomon chairman and CEO of Goldman Sachs and many more so exciting. We can't even announce them yet. We are always throw good events. Honestly, I've done it for 20 years. Trust me on this one.

11 (11m 45s):
It's Pivot's signature hot takes and even hotter, because like we said, we're at the beach in Miami visit Vox media events.com/pivot, M I a slash podcast to apply to attend and see you in Miami on February 14th, happy Valentine's day. Don't tell Scott I'm getting him nothing. All of course be the one in aviator sunglasses. Although that's nothing new,

1 (12m 6s):
Not even a gesture, you're not going to be anything, nothing even

11 (12m 9s):
Adjust your thing, not a thing

1 (12m 19s):
We're back with Asmat con who has investigated civilian casualties in us, military operations for the New York times. And we're trying to figure out if the Pentagon is capable of waging its ongoing war on terror without killing innocent people. We asked asthma what she found in her investigations.

2 (12m 36s):
You know, when I first started doing this work in early 2016, I was on the ground in places that had been retaken from ISIS, basically going door to door in different areas and sampling the airstrikes that occurred there. You know, I went to the sites of more than 103 airstrikes in three different sample areas. And what I found was that one in five of these airstrikes was resulting in a civilian death. That's 20% and it's a rate that was 31 times higher than what the military was claiming

1 (13m 8s):
31 times higher than the militaries count of civilian death.

2 (13m 14s):
And so what I did is I took all of the coordinates, you know, what I was finding and I presented them to the U S military. I, you know, I asked them, did you conduct these airstrikes? Half of the reasons for this civilian casualty incidents were the result of poor or outdated intelligence. In one case, they saw children on the roof of a home. And rather than relying on that to maybe question whether they had the wrong target, there was a nicest location across the street. You know, they now determined that this house they were looking at with these children was an even more dangerous target than they identified it before. You know, they thought it was a nicest sleeping center and now they're, we're calling it a weapons manufacturing facility.

2 (13m 55s):
And so they targeted it. And you know, they said they saw one injured child. I went on the ground and everyone in this neighborhood set a family of 11 were killed that a little girl survived and that people were injured in the house next door, including a different little girl who was permanently disabled. The Pentagon says it holds itself accountable. And you know, when they would publicly release these press releases in which they would admit, you know, maybe there'll be sentenced long summaries of what they found about each claim. I knew that behind each of those was a longer document and I requested all of them through the freedom of information act. What I wound up doing was suing the Pentagon and us central command for these documents.

2 (14m 36s):
And over three years, I started receiving these pages in batches, you know, every other month. And you know, I was able to obtain more than 1300 of them. The majority of which they rejected these claims of casualties sometimes found for reasons as simple as they couldn't find some of these areas on maps. They couldn't identify them and determined that because they couldn't find this like village or they couldn't find this neighborhood that they were going to reject that claim. So some of them were summarily dismissed, but even within the credible ones, you know, you can see patterns, you can start to see what's happening and why

1 (15m 16s):
Can you give us like their total tally of civilian deaths versus something closer to the reality that you found? Is it that simple?

2 (15m 25s):
The Pentagon says that there were a little over 1400 civilian deaths resulting from, you know, the tens of thousands of airstrikes they've conducted in Iraq and Syria. Now I can't give you a precise number, but I know that back in 2017, when a colleague and I went on the ground to do a systematic sample, a sample that we believe is an under count because of the areas we went to. And because we simply could not count for example, children of ISIS, right? W you know, we were relying on documenting what we had records for, what we could interview people about. And for many reasons, you know, this sample we did, we believe was an undercount.

2 (16m 7s):
And from that looking at strikes that had occurred through 2016. So I guess in the first little, over two years of this air campaign, our inference came out to between seven and 10,000 people, civilians having been killed. And that was several years ago now, you know, I want to be careful because it's an inference. I want to be careful because it's a war zone, right? And you can only sample particular areas that are accessible. They have to be populated. This is hard work to do. But if that many years ago, before we saw some of the loosening of restrictions on strikes, if that's what we were looking at, you know, you're looking at a much, much higher rate of civilian tat.

1 (16m 48s):
What do you see when you look at this stuff in aggregate? Do you see indifference on the part of the Pentagon? Are you seeing sort of more ineptitude or both

2 (16m 60s):
Now? I can't tell you the intentions of the officers who are conducting these, but I think if you look at the overall system and what it prioritizes, right, which is not being on the ground, prioritizes following this particular process, and if you see civilians in this video, you can count them. It essentially winds up becoming, you know, what many experts have now told me is a means to model accountability for the rest of the world, to say that we are going through this incredible and complex array of procedures, which is true. The United States has a very complex process for this to mitigate harm, but in effect, it's being used more to establish America's reputation on this issue rather than necessarily to truly prevent civilian loss, to study it, to go on the ground, to do these very straightforward things.

2 (17m 52s):
You know, if I can go to these sites, you know, more than a hundred of them, civilian casualty sites in different war zones, you know, as somebody who is just a reporter without the means or access of the us military, which also has the coordinates of all the strikes they've conducted, you know, they have a better means of actually investigating this. So if they're choosing not to do it, if they're choosing not to study an aggregate lessons learned, if they're choosing not to implement procedures, to change confirmation bias in a way that really shows results, what does that tell you about their intentions of truly trying to prevent civilian loss?

1 (18m 33s):
You say the Pentagon is trying to model accountability to the world. Is there actual accountability inside the Pentagon?

2 (18m 42s):
The Pentagon can and should make changes. There are some within who were very supportive of a recent memo that the secretary of defense issued saying, you know, really putting in place a timeline for this new civilian casualty policy, starting a, I guess, an Institute or a center to learn lessons, a center for excellence. But the reality of the matter is, is that, that policy, that civilian casualty policy that he's now put a timeline on that was mandated by Congress several years ago. And, you know, they've been working on this for quite some time. And his response was to put a timeline on it for something that had actually, you know, Congress had gone so far as to actually fence off millet to some military funding until they completed this policy.

2 (19m 28s):
It's unclear to me what is different because they had been claiming for years to be doing many of these things, we should be watching what they actually release in the timeline that's been given. And to really follow up, to see if there are differences between what they've been claiming for so long and what they are now doing,

1 (19m 47s):
What we have is this attack last week that resulted in the death of Abu Ebraheem Al shimmy Al Qureshi, where, where it looks like special forces went to great lengths to prevent civilian death. Of course, civilians still died, but does that give you hope that something may have changed here?

2 (20m 13s):
That is someone that they are going to expend a great number of resources to take out that is not the kind of care and attention that's given to bombings that happen every day sometimes with, you know, with far less planning, I think it does say things about the Biden administration specifically, but it doesn't necessarily tell us about the Pentagon's own process when it comes to all of these other airstrikes that are being carried out, not just in Iraq and Syria, but in places like places where the CIA might be operating places like Yemen, we don't have a true grasp of how sustainable a change like this is.

2 (20m 59s):
And we'll, we, you know, I know that there are hearing scheduled in Congress. So for example, on Wednesday, the Senate judiciary committee is holding a hearing on this issue. There are many civilian harm organizations that are pressing the Biden administration for change. And I know that there are several members of Congress who have been leading on this issue for quite a while, who have been asking for some of these things. So people have made these calls. I don't know what comes of it, but I do. I do take heart. And the way that reporters are approaching this to, to ask for evidence, I think of, of some of the claims to not necessarily take some of the military statements at face value, because we've seen how often some of the statements have unfolded and turned out not to be true.

2 (21m 49s):
Certainly that approach does give me some hope.

1 (22m 4s):
Osmotic con is an assistant professor of journalism at Columbia journalism school and a contributing writer for the New York times magazine. You can find her reporting at the New York times by searching for the civilian casualty files. Our show today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain edited by Matthew collect engineered by Paul mousey and fact checked by Laura Bullard. I'm Sean Rama's firm. It is today explained.