0 (0s):
Weight loss empire Jenny Craig is going outta business. That announcement was made on social media after a couple of weeks of rumors and after 40 years of being a leader in the dieting business,

2 (13s):
Promised you would look like you want look

3 (16s):
Won. 886 Jenny with

2 (19s):
Frozen food a diet culture couldn't keep up.

3 (23s):
1 886 Jenny

2 (26s):
Wellness is in Jenny Craig is so done.

3 (29s):
1 886 Jenny. But

2 (32s):
What else? Survive Theam Revolution

3 (35s):
1 886 Jenny

4 (39s):
Jenny Craig filed for bankruptcy recently. A sign that a certain type of weight loss program is on its way out. Coming up on today explained the expansion and contraction of Jenny Craig.

3 (54s):
1 886 Jenny.

5 (1m 1s):
This episode is supported by Apple Business Connect. It's a free tool that allows businesses to take control of how they're seen across Apple Maps, messages, wallet, Siri and other apps. Plus you can access insights that help you learn how customers find your business and have to optimize your reach. Do all this and more from your browser or phone with Apple Business Connect. You can go to apple.com/business/connect to learn more.

4 (1m 32s):
Your one day

6 (1m 33s):
Start. Today

4 (1m 35s):
It's today explained. I'm Noelle King with Emma Court. She's a reporter for Bloomberg and her entire job is to cover the weight loss industry. Emma, let's take it through from the beginning. Jenny Craig, this company is named after a woman. Who is she and what is the evolution of this brand?

7 (1m 53s):
So there is a literal Jenny Craig and she founded the company with her husband back in 1983. Her full name is actually Genevieve Craig. Oh, she struggled to lose weight after having kids.

6 (2m 6s):
When I was pregnant for my second daughter, I gained 45 pounds and after she was born I looked in the mirror and I said, you've got to do something about this.

7 (2m 16s):
And she and her husband like started this company first in Australia. She was an American but it started in Australia. Then it expanded pretty soon after into the US

8 (2m 26s):
Good day. Chances are if you play three hours of hard tennis every day, you probably won't have a weight problem. But not all of us can play three hours of tennis a day. There's a much easier way to solve your weight problem. It's called the Jenny Craig Weight Loss Program.

7 (2m 43s):
They had these like physical brick and mortar locations and that's where you could pick up your food, you can meet with like a coach and talk about your weight loss, all that good stuff.

6 (2m 54s):
Our menu plans are prepared, especially for you and you'll love our new food packaging.

9 (2m 59s):
No tin.

7 (3m 2s):
What's really interesting about these companies is they like evolve over time. So you see them kind of morphing as cultural trends shift or they, you know, die out, right? So during the nineties there was a another weight loss drug craze called Fen and they actually started prescribing Fenn. And then very soon after the drug was linked to like heart issues

10 (3m 23s):
News two, Chicago has learned the state's first lawsuit against the makers of the diet Drugs. Fenn and Redux will be filed tomorrow. About a half million people in Chicago took these drugs and it's been estimated that a third half heart valve damage and I

7 (3m 35s):
Became a big problem for Jenny Craig and the other diet companies that were getting into the fend fend business Now had made a bit of a stumble here. The stock ends up like towards the end of the, you know, 1990s, early two thousands trading like at such a low value that the New York Stock Exchange delisted, it was later acquired by Nestle. This was a time like even Weight Watchers at one point was owned by the Hines company that made ketchup. So Nestle buys Jenny Craig like this is an era of like a lot of packaged food. This is like a big time for dieting and anxiety about weight. You have Nutrisystem in the seventies.

9 (4m 15s):
Flavorless diets used to force me to cheat and fail, but the new Nutrisystem flavor set point weight loss program gives you all the flavor you need to succeed.

7 (4m 24s):
You have Jenny Craig in eighties, you know, a couple decades later in the two thousands the South Beach diet comes out.

11 (4m 31s):
This place likes to stir things up. So let's compare Whole Grain, south Beach Diet. Whole grain crunch has 19 grams of whole grain. Kellogg's special case cereal has none. Life is better on the beach.

7 (4m 45s):
You know, I think Jenny Craig and Weight Watchers definitely had some of a worry and focus on like carbohydrates like you did see early Weight Watchers, you know, you couldn't eat your bagels on that and pasta and things like that. But you know, really the main commonality was like eating less, right? So Jenny Craig has these like pre-packaged meals. If you follow their program and you eat only what they tell you to, you're eating a defined amount of calories. The same thing for Weight Watchers. Even though their program is like not calories, but it's called the Point System. All these programs ultimately have foods you can eat, foods you can't eat, wait

12 (5m 22s):
Till you try the Lava Cake. Lava

11 (5m 24s):
Cake,

7 (5m 25s):
You know, with Jenny Craig it's just you can eat the food we give you and if it's cake you can eat it as long as it's our cake, right?

13 (5m 32s):
I feel incredible and thanks to my personal coach I always have the support that I need. Okay, well

14 (5m 37s):
Sign me up.

4 (5m 39s):
How did Jenny Craig market

7 (5m 40s):
Herself? Jenny Craig was very much typifying that like celebrity spokes model, right? And I think you know, many of us can remember the Christie Alley like TV commercials

15 (5m 53s):
One 800 Jenny 20, Jenny Craig please. This is Kirsty Alley. It's in regards to me being fat.

7 (6m 2s):
No, she say have, have you called Jenny?

15 (6m 4s):
Hey you're chubby too. Let's lose weight together.

7 (6m 7s):
Valerie Burelli, she famously did a bunch of commercials like with Kirsty Alley and they would kind of compete, you know, talking about how much weight they lost.

15 (6m 16s):
I've lost 30 pounds. Jenny was so easy for me to stick to Valerie. This is my commercial. Yeah, but I'm still losing it. You're losing it. All right. For

7 (6m 24s):
A period of time, Jason Alexander, a k George from Seinfeld, one of those rare male celebrity diet spokespeople.

16 (6m 35s):
Take a look.

15 (6m 38s):
I was fat, now I'm there.

7 (6m 41s):
Then Mariah Carey was one of the celebrity spokespeople.

11 (6m 45s):
That's a genuine thing. It's not like, oh whatever, you know, I honestly feel that way,

4 (6m 49s):
Mariah. Was it? I didn't know that. Pretty

7 (6m 52s):
Crazy, right?

4 (6m 54s):
What was the peak moment for diet companies like Jenny Craig, Nutrisystem, weight Watchers?

7 (6m 59s):
I think of sort of like peak diet years as being the two thousands going into the like early 2010s. Like this is a very like thinness obsessed period of time. Like even for our culture. And you know, you think of the low rise jeans, you think of the crop tops, like celebrities were so, so thin back then. Like if you look up photos, you might genuinely be shocked to see how thin some of these people were

15 (7m 25s):
When

17 (7m 26s):
Asked by fashion industry website ww d, if she has a motto, Kate replied, there's nothing tastes as good as skinny feels. That's one of them.

7 (7m 35s):
You know, Beyonce was doing like these insane juice cleanses with like lemon water and cayennes. I heard you

18 (7m 41s):
Lost 20 pounds. I did. We all wanna know what did you do? I did a fast master cleanser.

7 (7m 48s):
You know, things that I think now people will look back on and say, wow, that was, you know, we probably shouldn't be doing juice cleanses. That doesn't seem very healthy. And that style of jeans is like, you know, really difficult for everyone to be wearing. When

4 (8m 1s):
Did cracks start to appear in the early two thousands model of everybody's gotta be a size zero. When did that start to go outta fashion and why?

7 (8m 10s):
I think you could probably still argue that being thin is still fashionable, but you do start to see this sort of toxic diet culture yielding to something else by the early 2010s. Body positivity starts getting big. You see Dove doing these like kind of viral commercials about how you know women are beautiful and we need to stop hating ourselves.

19 (8m 34s):
We spend a lot of time as women analyzing and trying to fix the things that aren't quite right and we should spend more time appreciating the things that we do. Like

7 (8m 45s):
Girls, the show comes out and Lena Dunham is in it and people are up in arms about the fact that she wears a crop top and she's not a stick thin.

20 (8m 54s):
You've tried a lot to lose weight.

21 (8m 57s):
No, I have not tried a lot to lose weight because I decided that I was gonna have some other concerns in my life. Okay.

7 (9m 3s):
But we also see beauty ideals changing because there's different kinds of representation. Ashley Graham is on the cover of you know, the Sports Illustrated swimsuit edition. She's a a plus size model.

22 (9m 15s):
The myth is the bigger the bikini, the smaller looking the body and the smaller the bikini, the better looking the body.

23 (9m 24s):
Just because you have curves, it doesn't mean you want a bigger suit. You just want something that like hugs everything in the right way. So what we do is we're cheating everything and we're rolling everything down and pulling everything down. The smaller

22 (9m 35s):
The better. Look at this,

7 (9m 35s):
You've got incredible and as like I think media also gets more decentralized and people get more ownership of their own image and you know they can put things on Facebook and Instagram and you know, now TikTok like you start seeing, you know, people saying there are many different kinds of bodies and we shouldn't just embrace one kind. And that changes how we talk about dieting too because now the idea that you should be trying to lose weight is pretty fraught, right?

24 (10m 3s):
We have millions of girls and women devoting their brilliance to shrinking their waistlines instead of expanding their lives. If we want a better world, we've got to kill diet culture.

7 (10m 19s):
People don't talk as openly about it as they used to and in fact like it's a little bit shameful to wanna lose weight, you know, I think people still do wanna lose weight but they don't wanna admit it. And that's an interesting moment for diet companies because they used to always be able to say, get thinner and that was something people wanted and now you have to message differently. Yeah,

4 (10m 45s):
Yeah. If Jenny Craig represented the old way of doing things, what's the company that represents this new way that you're talking about where it's like, it's less that you run around saying, oh I haven't eaten a thing today, I'm trying to lose weight. You're right, you can't say that anymore. Which company is at the forefront here? So

7 (11m 1s):
The company that typifies this is Noom. Noom is this app. They've become very popular in the last couple of years. They basically pitch themselves as not a diet, they're a lifestyle change and they also kind of focus on a more psychological approach to eating. Martha

19 (11m 20s):
Tried every way to get control of her weight, but Noom was different for her because it uses psychology to wait. She'll say it better.

25 (11m 27s):
We can now kind of cook normal foods that we're all going to eat instead of whatever you're eating on these diets, you know? Oh

19 (11m 33s):
We know Martha

7 (11m 35s):
At the end of the day, like all these programs are ultimately about eating less to lose weight. So they're definitely leaning into this holistic wellness lifestyle approach, but they're also ultimately teaching you how to lose weight through the classic tenets of dieting. You know, eating less and moving more. Hmm. But Noom and all these other companies in the diet industry are now facing another sea change and it's these new weight loss drugs like Ozempic

4 (12m 20s):
Coming up, these new weight loss drugs like Ozempic and how they might revolutionize the weight loss industry.

7 (12m 41s):
Fox Creative,

5 (12m 43s):
This is advertiser content brought to you by too. Good.

26 (12m 46s):
Why do we throw away so much perfectly good food in this country while a huge number of people are going hungry, like the two things just don't add up. My name is Sean Fhelps and I'm the senior brand manager of two goods. We offer a variety of delicious products that you can find in the yogurt Tile two Good was founded back in 2019 and our mission from the start was really to create good both small good food and more good in the world. Combating food waste and food insecurity came as a natural course of action. 30 to 40% of the food supply in the US goes to waste and one in six Americans are facing food insecurity. So we don't have an issue of lack of food supply is an issue of food distribution.

26 (13m 29s):
If we rescue all that food we can feed more people one cup less hung up. And the way it works is that for every two good products sold, we donate to two incredible food rescue organizations, city Harvest and we don't waste who are dedicated to rescuing good food from businesses, from supermarkets anywhere it might go to waste. And then redirecting that to communities in need who are facing food insecurity. Consumers that have purchased two good products have helped rescue over 58 million pounds of food and donate over 48 million meals to those who need it the most. It's really remarkable the amount of Food City Harvest and we don't waste are able to rescue

5 (14m 5s):
To learn more. Visit two good yogurt.com/one cup less hunger.

4 (14m 16s):
It's today explained Emma Court of Bloomberg. So you said Ozempic and drugs like it are the next big sea change and at the moment it does seem like more and more people are getting on this medication.

7 (14m 27s):
These are drugs that doctors are starting to recommend for you know, weight management, but there are, you know, certain clinical guidelines around it. So doctors, I mean can prescribe these drugs to anyone technically you're, you know, they're allowed to, they are using their medical judgment but really the drugs are indicated specifically for people above a certain body mass index threshold. So people who are on sort of the higher end of overweight and have a comorbidity like diabetes or or something. And then people who are considered obese by B M I standards. How

4 (15m 1s):
Widely available are they?

7 (15m 3s):
Well they're not widely available and they're kind of two big reasons. The first is that they're incredibly expensive drugs and insurance typically doesn't cover them. Ozempic costs, you know, about $900 or so a month if you're just paying cash the list price WEGO V costs 1350 a month. You know, most people are not gonna be able to pay these kinds of prices out of pocket. Right. And insurance coverage is an interesting aspect of this because you know, typically when you have a medical condition, sure your insurance might give you a hard time about paying for it but typically people can persist and they can get those medications covered.

7 (15m 44s):
But weight loss has long been treated as sort of a superficial thing, aesthetic condition, not a medical condition.

27 (15m 52s):
So you tell someone you've gotta starve yourself for the rest of your life and then if you're not able to do that they tend to take all the blame on themselves and it it very rarely occurs to, to the average patient, perhaps the advice that I was given was just incorrect. Maybe that doesn't work for 99.9% of of people who are overweight or obese or morbidly obese. And indeed we find it doesn't,

7 (16m 16s):
Doctors are starting to change their tune on it. You know, more recently

28 (16m 20s):
We have to think about obesity no different than hypertension than high cholesterol than diabetes.

7 (16m 28s):
But you know, that sort of enabled insurance companies to not pay for these drugs. There's even kind of the US government through the Medicare program for the elderly doesn't pay for weight loss drugs. And that sort of set a standard for private insurers to say we don't pay for them either.

4 (16m 46s):
Why don't they, what's the reasoning?

7 (16m 48s):
You know, they're saying these drugs are new, they haven't been proven to keep weight off long term. And kind of the crux of the matter really is they haven't been proven to reduce other expensive conditions that we pay for currently. So if these drugs can prove that they make a dent in heart disease, that they bring down rates of stroke, they may be able to gain some more insurance coverage. But you know it's gonna be a high bar because insurance companies don't like to pay for things. I think any of us who have had to deal with an insurance company as a consumer know that and I think they're really reluctant, especially in this case to pay because so many people are eligible for these drugs.

29 (17m 31s):
The new drug we govie is approved for people who are either obese or overweight with at least one weight related medical problem.

7 (17m 38s):
It's more than a hundred million American adults could be eligible. Almost three and four American adults are considered to be overweight or obese. So many of those people are gonna be eligible for medication just based on the medical guidelines. And the label that the F D A approved

4 (17m 55s):
Is the fact that so many people are eligible for these drugs. Is that why we keep reading that there is a shortage of them?

7 (18m 3s):
I think there's been a lot of hype around these medications and it's because you know, it's not just eligible people trying to take them too. We know, you know, at least anecdotally that there are thinner folks who are trying to use these medications as well. You know, people like the celebrity set

30 (18m 19s):
Speculation persists that Kim Kardashian used vbi to squeeze into the famous Marilyn Munro she wore at the Mac Gala. I

31 (18m 25s):
Knew I had to lose at least 10 pounds for it to even go up on me. I'm

7 (18m 30s):
Gonna, so I would say it's, it's sheer demand, honestly. It's not just eligibility. There's a lot of people excited about medications that will help them lose weight and you know, the word is spreading on places like TikTok.

32 (18m 42s):
So many people were asking me like, oh my god, how did you get it? Like how much was it? And stuff like that. So I just wanted to explain my experience cuz it is different than how other people are getting it.

7 (18m 51s):
So that's the second piece of the access picture, right? Number one is cost. Number two is there have been these shortages and it's kind of looking like the shortages are gonna be a problem longer term.

33 (19m 4s):
There's another side effect to its soaring popularity shortages and now diabetics are calling out people just using it to drop a few pounds.

7 (19m 13s):
Novo Nortis is now saying again that they're having issues meeting demand for Wago V. So they reduce the supply of like starter doses for the drug. So more people can't get on it. And they also said that they're gonna slow down the global launch. So you know, the US is actually sort of unique in that not every country in the world has even access to Wgo V right now. And it's looking like even places like the UK where the drug was expected to launch soon, you know, might not have it for some time because they just can't keep up with the, the demand.

4 (19m 46s):
I've seen in the debate around these drugs pro and con, I've seen people describe them as miracle drugs, assuming that manufacturers can meet demand. Do you think we might be looking at the end of the traditional diet, Jenny Craig, weight Watchers, Atkins diet industry? Like are these game changing as they appear on the surface to be?

7 (20m 6s):
These drugs are definitely a big deal. They're changing the paradigm of what is offered as a solution for weight loss. You know, if you're in the diet business, that's a really scary prospect for you, right? I think diet companies are having to reckon with the fact that this does change their business model.

34 (20m 23s):
WW International, formerly known as Weight Watchers announced it is buying the company's sequence for 100 million. The subscription service helps overweight customers access groundbreaking new medications like Ozempic for diabetes and will go,

7 (20m 37s):
Are these drugs gonna like mean the end of weight troubles? Like I don't think so for one, they don't work for everyone, they're very expensive and there are questions about how they work in the long term. There

10 (20m 50s):
Are side effects and one of the issues is there's really no rhyme or reason to the side effects. We don't really have a good understanding of what they are and people who are not diabetic because that's what it was tested in. So we understand those to a certain extent, but for people who are taking it for weight loss, we're not quite sure.

7 (21m 3s):
Even though they have been studied for some time, like there are lingering questions about safety. Some people can have serious problems while rare, like serious issues on these drugs. So yes, this is a reckoning for diet companies. A big part of the diet company business model is people lose weight but they can't keep it up and then they regain weight, but then they rejoin the program and they pay them again and they lose weight again and then they can't keep it up. And then, I mean if you look at a company like Weight Watchers or Jenny Craig, there are people who cycle in and out of one program or another for their entire lives.

7 (21m 44s):
You know, this is a customer that is not having their needs met long term and that's why this is a booming business. But these medications are creating a new place for them to go, right? They can go their doctor, they can go to a telemedicine company that will prescribe these. And a lot of people are interested,

4 (22m 2s):
You know, you mentioned some of the, the drawbacks, which are unknowns. Some of the drawbacks are very well known, they just don't work for everyone. Are there other critiques of these drugs, whether medical or, or maybe even cultural?

7 (22m 15s):
You know, I think there's still a crowd that says people don't need medication to lose weight. They can lose weight with lifestyle. The evidence is pretty clear on this regard that like most people aren't able to lose weight long term with diet and lifestyle changes. And the best explanation for that, by the way that I've heard is sort of our environment is so food rich, it's so like overflowing with calories that diet programs just say you gotta rise above it, right? Like you have to separate yourself from this environment that we're all living in that's rich with food and you have to rise above it and bring your blueberries in a container to work and pack a salad and tell your coworkers you can't join them for margaritas or get a skinny margarita or whatever the case may be.

4 (23m 5s):
All right. If we take all of this as a piece, so you've got the companies like Jenny Craig and Weight Watchers that are selling you stuff. You've got the meal plan companies that are selling you stuff. You've got a diet like Atkins where they don't really need to be selling you anything, it's just you're the one going out and buying the the protein and not the carbs. And then you have, as time evolves, you have things like Ozempic, Wago. Where do you think this industry, this really varied and diverse and evolving industry is going?

7 (23m 35s):
I think we're gonna start seeing more of a meld of the medication and the lifestyle approaches, or at least businesses will be selling that We can offer you help with the lifestyle piece of this. You know, the drugs don't work entirely on their own. You still need to make these lifestyle changes. You still wanna make sure you're strong and healthy and live a long life. And we know that weight loss is not the entire story when it comes to health. So I think like that's where the this business is going. It'll be interesting to see, you know, how that stays in the picture because I know like one of the things that gets people really excited about these medications is now like, I'll get on a drug so I can have a healthier lifestyle, right?

7 (24m 20s):
They're like, great, I wanna get on these drugs so I can lose a bunch of weight. And lifestyle is not at the forefront of people's minds. And I think it's gonna be a really interesting tension moving forward, especially depending on what these studies find about disease and whether these drugs reduce the burden of obesity related diseases.

4 (24m 54s):
That was Bloomberg's Emma Court. Today's episode was produced by Miles Bryan and s Petros. It was edited by Matthew Collette, in fact, checked by Laura Bullard. It was engineered by Patrick Boyd. I'm Noelle King. It's today explained.