1 (4s):
It's coming from China through Alaska and Canada. You're gonna see it in Montana and you're going to freak out. It's a balloon, but it's not just any balloon. It's a spy balloon. Well, China says it's a weather balloon, but does anyone believe them? But don't worry because we've got the Jets and the Jets got the missiles and that balloon is going down on a wintry Saturday off the coast of South Carolina.

1 (47s):
But the balloon rises again on today. Explain.

3 (1m 0s):
Look up in the sky. It's a bird.

1 (1m 2s):
It's a plane. Yep. Today explain Vox Sean Ramo firm here with Alex Ward Politico. Alex, what's up with this balloon?

4 (1m 9s):
Don't you mean what's popping?

1 (1m 10s):
No, it's good to have you

4 (1m 12s):
Back. Happy to be back. Look, I think the bottom line here is that this episode is both a thing that matters and is also wholly irrelevant. Let's talk about why this matters. This is, as far as we understand it, a Chinese spy balloon that has entered American airspace on January 28th and traversed from Alaska all the way to the Atlantic Coast and into the Atlantic where it went on February 4th and met its demise. There

5 (1m 44s):
Were days of speculation of what would happen after the balloon entered US airspace.

4 (1m 49s):
It wasn't in that entire time. While the US government says that it stopped China from collecting intelligence as it floated 60,000 feet above the United States. This, you know, probably could have still grabbed stuff.

6 (2m 3s):
The balloon is the size of three buses equipped with solar panels for power and a surveillance payload. It can maneuver itself and has changed course

4 (2m 13s):
In the grand scheme of things. That's not great. Doesn't sound good that China just kind of brazenly was collecting intelligence on the United States right above our heads without really anyone doing anything about it until it got shot down on Saturday.

7 (2m 30s):
I successfully took it down. And I want to compliment our aviators who did it, and we'll have more to report on this a little later. Thank you.

4 (2m 40s):
Why this doesn't matter that much. This is nowhere near the worst thing China has done to us in terms of even intelligence collection. I mean, two thoughts off the top of my head. First, China has killed and imprisoned American intelligence assets in China since, you know, 2010, at least

8 (2m 58s):
18 CIA informants were killed or imprisoned in China after a spy network was dismantled according to reports in the New York Times. It's not clear whether the CIA was hacked or whether a mole helped the Chinese to identify the agents over a two year period.

4 (3m 12s):
And then, let's not forget, the Chinese perpetrated a massive breach of personnel files from the Office of Personnel Management in 2015 taking, you know, information from anyone who's worked or dealt with the government

9 (3m 25s):
In all the hack hit 4 million current and former federal employees exposing data like details about job assignments, training and performance ratings, information that could be used to blackmail employees with access to classified information

4 (3m 43s):
And you know, who knows how that's aiding their efforts. But like those two things, and that's just the two off the top of my head. Those two things are far worse and far more damaging to the general US-China relationship and, and they're competition with one another than a balloon flying above us for a week or so. That said, the balloon has caused the greater freak out, whereas these other two incidents, while I'm sure in you know, secret meetings and et cetera, et cetera are important, it ha didn't cause this level of like political global backlash.

1 (4m 14s):
Okay, we're gonna talk more about how important this balloon was or was not, but let's just talk about how we first cited it. When exactly did that happen again?

4 (4m 22s):
So that was January 28th and that was in Alaskan airspace over the Aleutian Islands. And this balloon then traveled into Canadian airspace and then in through northern Idaho and then spotted in Montana on February 1st.

10 (4m 40s):
Well, hello everybody. I am sitting in my driveway here in Billings, Montana, and right now there is a ground stop on our airport and this thing is up in the sky

4 (4m 57s):
And then it continued onward to the Atlantic Ocean.

1 (5m 1s):
Your flight path started in Alaska. Is that to say that President Biden knew this thing was coming into United States airspace potentially back in late January.

4 (5m 11s):
He was briefed about this early on and then he was reaching a decision point out to what to do with it on Wednesday, February 1st. And on that day he had given the order to the Pentagon to shoot it down on

7 (5m 22s):
Your national, I told them to shoot it down oh Wednesday, on Wednesday. But the recommendation from, they said to me, let's wait till the safest place to do it. What does this mean

4 (5m 30s):
For senior military officials? This being Mark Millie, the chairman of the joint Chief of staff and Glenn Van Herk, the chief of Northern Command suggested to the president and rather recommended, don't shoot this down right now Mr. President because otherwise it could cause damage to civilians underneath. Let's be clear about this. This is a pretty massive balloon and when destroyed it will cause debris and it will fall down. And, and there were predictions or rather assessments that if this were to be destroyed, it would fall within a 20 by 20 mile area that's about 400 square miles. I am not a math person, but I believe that math is right. And so it's not like there's tons of people in that part of Montana, but one could imagine parts of debris fly through a Walmart or a preschool or or something.

4 (6m 15s):
And the last thing the administration wanted was to of course hurt anybody and, and cause a bigger crisis than this already was. So the, the recommendation was just let this float off into the Atlantic where we can shoot it down safely. The president agreed with that decision and that's why they let it cross through, you know, Kansas, North Carolina, South Carolina and into the Atlantic. And

1 (6m 34s):
They don't wanna just shoot this thing down and then turn their boats around and go back to base or whatever. Something happens to the payload,

4 (6m 41s):
Well they're gonna retrieve it. It's currently about 47 feet of water off the Atlantic within our, you know, economic and airspace and all that. So they're gonna retrieve it, they're gonna take a look at it, they're gonna see what it's made out of, maybe what it was trying to collect, et cetera, et cetera. You know, gain some intelligence off of China's intelligence gathering operation. And we'll probably learn some more about the Chinese than, than we already knew. That said, you know, we've known the Chinese use balloons to spy on the US not only during this administration but in the past administration. But in the meantime this is very much just, they shot it down, it's in the Atlantic Navy and Coast Guard vessels are coming to pick it up and then they'll assess it for, you know, what they can glean from it.

1 (7m 22s):
Alex, I think it's high time. I ask you why China is using balloons to spy on the United States, isn't it 2023?

4 (7m 30s):
It is. And this is a question I was asking officials all week, really it's like, doesn't China have pretty sophisticated satellites in space that can look at all this stuff? And the answer is yes, yes, China does have that, but the reason to use a balloon is mostly twofold. The first is it's really hard to track. It doesn't really give off sort of a signature, right? The technological signature. So it can typically fly undetected across the US airspace if it weren't for, you know, folks in Billings, Montana looking up and saying like, what is this white spherical object in the

11 (8m 3s):
Air? Here's the moon, right? And then here's that. What planet is that

4 (8m 13s):
Been taking photos of it and have it go viral and forcing the administration to respond? Who knows, we might not have actually heard about this balloon. So that's sort of part one, even though it should be said that according to the administration they were tracking this from the days it was in Alaska, et cetera. But that's, you know, they weren't making this public until folks in Montana made it public

12 (8m 33s):
Right Now we assess that it'll probably be over the United States for a few few days, but we'll continue monitor, review our options and keep you updated as as we can.

4 (8m 44s):
And part two is it's maneuverable and predictable. So where satellites are susceptible to gravity and just the motion of the which they move, they are not, you can't really put them in the place you want them, them when you want them. Whereas balloons you can, they've got motors and they've got direction. So you can pilot it and basically go, I want to go this way, I wanna go that way. And so one of the reasons, not the only reason, but one of the reasons the Biden administration assesses this is a spy plane versus a weather balloon as Beijing claims is because of the components on it. The fact that it's maneuverable, the fact of the kinds of things that are on this balloon and the fact that it constantly was flying over areas that are important to the US military, including Malmstrom airbase out in Montana.

4 (9m 27s):
So, which is one of the three places where our nuclear silos are fun fact. So this is part of the reasoning why there's such certainty within the Biden administration that this is meant to spy. And so that's why you use it. It's, it's harder to track. You can put it basically where you want it, when you want it. And that's its advantage over satellites. Although let's not minimize satellites. Satellites can still provide quite immense pictures and great detail for the Chinese and they are still using that, right? So even though this balloon is down and that operation is over, let's not kid ourselves the Chinese are still spying above the United States with satellites just with a different method.

1 (10m 5s):
And after this several days long saga where Blinken canceled his visit to China, where the Biden administration, the US military shoots down this balloon over the Atlantic Ocean right off the coast of South Carolina. How does China respond to all of it

4 (10m 21s):
Angrily, right? I mean the United States shot down a piece of Chinese property in like a pretty high profile way with fighter jets with missiles, right? Or a missile I should say. So it's, it doesn't take that lightly, right? No government would be happy that you shot down anything of theirs with you know, the full might of the American military.

13 (10m 39s):
Come on man. Don't think just do.

4 (10m 45s):
In this case, of course the Chinese are also still saying that it was not meant for spy purposes. So in their messaging, the US violently shot down something that was meant for scientific collection. Again, highly unlikely based on what this balloon looks like, what it has on it and where it traveled. But they're unhappy at this point and it's souring us-China relations. And so it's leading to a sort of question now of, you know, will this incident burst, let's say the current US-China tense relationship, will it make it even worse? And you could argue yes in the short term, but like will this fully break ties between Washington and WA and Beijing? I bet not at the beginning I mentioned is this a, you know, it's sort of a thing and sort of not a thing, it's a thing in the sense that China sped, it's not a thing in the sense that everything probably over time is gonna be okay and will all you know whether this, and let's just say the tensions will probably deflate over time.

4 (11m 42s):
Was that, was that a balloon deflating Sean?

1 (11m 47s):
More with Alex Ward in a minute on today, explained

Coda.io (12m 3s):
Support for the show comes from Coda. They wanna know if you're one of the many people out there slowly making your way back to the office, maybe begrudgingly so, and they wanna make that experience potentially easier with Coda, where teams can work on entire projects from start to finish with everything they need all in one place. You can think about the way your team works right now. It's tough to focus on getting things done if all the work is spread out across different documents and spreadsheets and a stack of workflow tools, who wants a stack of workflow tools? That's why Koda may be able to help you get the work done better together. If you're ready to join the efficiency revolution with Koda, that sounds pretty good. You can get started today for free. Listeners can head over to coda.io/explained, that's coda.io to get started for free coda.io/explained.

16 (13m 8s):
Here's a question for you. How have apps like Tinder Hinge and Bumble affected our search for love, maybe even your search for love in the new season of the show Land of the Giants called dating games, the Verge and the Cut are teaming up to uncover the secrets of the dating app industry and show what happens when your love life becomes their business. And indeed it does. In every episode they're talking to experts and industry leaders about how tech has affected our relationships. You'll learn the economics of the dating industry. You'll hear surprising stories of real people trying to find love on an app. Find out what it means when your romantic life is part of a company's bottom line. You can follow land of the giants wherever you listen. New episodes are out every Wednesday.

17 (13m 52s):
Look, I'm sorry, but people were worried they were being

18 (13m 55s):
Spied on by me. A balloon. Everyone's being surveilled constantly, but it's always shoot the balloon and never unplug. Alexa

1 (14m 6s):
Today explained, we are back with Alex Ward from Politico, Alex, this whole thing feels kind of inconsequential on its face, but you would never know from turning on the TV or hearing Democrats and Republicans talking about this, why does this feel like the most consequential thing that happens in Sputnik or something

4 (14m 23s):
In terms of the reaction? It feels like somehow China has pulled over this major intelligence coup on us and like let's be clear about a couple things. One, as far as the administration says, they were also able to collect intelligence on the thing while it was in air and block it from collecting intelligence on us. Now who knows if that's true, but if that's the case then like all that happened was there was a Chinese balloon above our heads for a while. As for why sort of the public backlash, I mean mean part of this of course is the surprise, right? And no one likes the fact that a foreign government can just surveil on us kind of at will and we don't really act until it goes across the entire United States. That doesn't feel good.

4 (15m 3s):
Of course the senators from Montana won a Democrat and won a Republican are upset.

19 (15m 7s):
The problem with Joe Biden and this White House is they're now empowering, they're empowering our enemies since 2021. It's a dangerous moment that just makes our adversaries feel bolder about doing something irrational with America.

4 (15m 23s):
Also, the political environment is such that it's really easy to bash on China. Like this is an easy story to sort of make a thing out of. There's a Chinese spy balloon and Biden's not shooting it down.

20 (15m 37s):
What began as a spy balloon has become a trial balloon testing President Biden's strength and resolve. And unfortunately the President failed that test.

4 (15m 47s):
Now, even if there are good reasons to not shoot it down, you can hit on Biden for it. Like that's why you've seen tons of Republicans put out images or videos of them with guns like looking into the sky as if somehow their bullets are gonna reach 60,000 feet or that their aim is even that good. It's, it's a perfect sort of political football to throw at the President. The other, it is just the geopolitics of it. Like China is sort of the big bad in geopolitics alongside Russia and you know, China's been doing a lot of bad things. It's aggressiveness in the South China Sea, it's predatory trade practices, it's long time spying on the United States, et cetera, et cetera. I mean it's now what the US calls the pacing threat and there's always worries that it's gonna take Taiwan, et cetera, et cetera.

4 (16m 32s):
So something like this happens and everyone goes crazy, right? Plus there's like a physical manifestation of it and it makes you feel helpless. There's a balloon. Oh no, why can't we do this? Is does Chi. And it's sort of the perfect thing to, to talk about Republicans hitting Biden China, us spying greater geopolitical tensions, secretary Blinken canceling his trip to Beijing. Like it's just hit so many things. It's perfect to sort of keep in the ether. But are we having the sort of grander conversation about like the state of the US China relationship, about the intelligence, you know, war back and forth? No, we're just talking about balloons. Is

1 (17m 9s):
There a chance that this could have been deliberate on China's part? Could they have been forcing a controversy in the United States? Did they know that this could blow up the way it did?

4 (17m 19s):
So as far as the Biden administration says, we have seen Chinese by balloons three times when Trump was in office and in each time it went undetected and then already once when Biden's been in office. So we've had four previous balloons that didn't cause this kind of uproar, that didn't cause people to say, shoot it down, shoot it down, shoot it down. So if you're the Chinese, you're probably thinking, ah, you know, I can send another balloon across the US and it's gonna be fine. So that might have been a miscalculation. It also, I mean the, the timing is interesting, right? Blinken was set to go to China and meet Xi Jinping, the the Chinese leader. And maybe this was a way for China to try to be like, Hey, you know, we still got eyes on you don't think you have the upper hand.

4 (18m 2s):
And yet they miscalculated because the US went, no, we're gonna stop this trip because this trip's gonna be mostly about balloons anyway and that's not productive. But also like shame on you for violating our sovereignty in airspace international law. So one, it could be deliberate. I mean the Chinese say it was an accident, right? There's a, a weather balloon that got away from them thanks to Western winds. I mean maybe, I don't know. But if that's the case then like they caused a major geopolitical uproar with a pretty massive mistake.

1 (18m 30s):
How does this affect the United States' relationship with China going forward

4 (18m 33s):
Short term a downturn and in the long term about as crappy as it's been. So the downturn is blinken is not going to China. The downturn is we're gonna have probably hearings where Republicans and Democrats will be angry at the Biden administration for, you know, not taking care of this issue earlier and at China for being so brazen to, you know, violate our airspace and try to collect intelligence on us. So, you know, in such a brazen, bold fashion. So in the short term that's gonna cause some problems. I can't imagine Lincoln's going to China within a couple months. I would say probably minimum three months at that point. You know, he might head back, who knows?

4 (19m 14s):
I don't have any reporting to suggest that just, that's my general feeling. But in the long term, like the US China relationship has survived a lot.

21 (19m 22s):
Well, as the US China trade war drags on, we've had yet more evidence of the slowdown in the world's second biggest economy.

22 (19m 30s):
Not racist at all. No, not at all. It

23 (19m 33s):
Comes from China. The Biden administration says China is committing genocide against some of its own people. Muslim ethnic uyghurs in Xinjiang in the west

4 (19m 43s):
And including in, in recent months. I mean, unless we forget, I bet you did an episode on it and apologies for not remembering, but like remember when Pelosi went to Taiwan and what a big thing that was.

1 (19m 52s):
You don't have to apologize for not remembering whether or not we did an episode on Nancy's visit to Taiwan. You do have to apologize for you not remembering that you were the guest in our episode about Nancy's visit to Taiwan.

4 (20m 4s):
Was it me? Oops.

24 (20m 8s):
You're seeing already escalation between China where they're sending planes to the middle of a Taiwan straight that separates Taiwan's Island from mainland China. You're seeing shifts sail near that, that sort of border, the leader of China, Xi Jinping say, Hey, don't play with fire here.

4 (20m 24s):
The story of the US China relationship is a bad one in the sense that there, it's getting worse at a time when both countries, it would be better for the world if both countries got along but they don't. And so like is the balloon going to be like the straw that that broke the camel's back? I can't imagine that's the case. I can't imagine that all of us like this is the worst thing China's done. Cuz it's not. It's just so one of, one of the more visible and and you know, invasive, but it's nowhere near the most impactful or the most damaging, again, a small downturn. It's not gonna be pretty between Washington, Beijing for a while. It's gonna probably get a little ugly, it'll get worse and then it'll go back to its bad state. Is there

1 (21m 4s):
A world in which an incident like this Alex could actually lead to some kind of escalation that could lead into, I don't know, a real war with China?

4 (21m 12s):
I mean look, if Pelosi's visit didn't cause it, if, you know, the US sending aircraft carriers as sort of a show of force doesn't do it. If China's sending aircraft and other vessels near Taiwan doesn't do it. Like there's just a lot that's gonna take for a war to happen. A balloon's not gonna do it. I really think this is mostly a political sort of uproar in the US because like why not? If you were a constituent, you would probably want your elected representatives to be like, what the heck is going on here? And that's what they're doing, especially the ones from Montana. And of course republicans, some of whom are thinking about a 2024 presidential run, are using this as a way to hit Biden as like weak and an effective on China.

4 (21m 55s):
So it's just a political football. It's not, you know, gonna cause Biden to reach for the nuclear football. Going back to an episode that I was definitely a part of five years ago,

1 (22m 6s):
I'm glad you remember that one and you've reminded us several times throughout this conversation that the US and China are spying on each other in a number of ways, but this balloon incident got so much attention. What is it about our relationship with China right now or the way we spy on each other that, you know, doesn't get this much attention but perhaps ought to?

4 (22m 29s):
Well it's covert. That's the whole point of the exercise. I mean, when the Chinese are jailing or killing our assets, when they are infiltrating our government and private sector networks, they're doing it clandestinely. They're doing it out of the public eye. There isn't sort of a billboard in the sky that says, Hey, by the way, we just did this. The balloon is that, the balloon is that billboard. The balloon is saying, look, we China can spy on you even though you know whether it is, you know, taking out our assets, whether it is using spy satellites to look down on us, whether it is infiltrating our networks, the one that gets the most attention is the one that you can see.

4 (23m 9s):
And so I think we've learned something about ourselves through this episode, well through this episode, but also through the episode of the balloon is that, you know, when it's tangible, when you, when tactile when it's visible, it can become a bigger story in a bigger issue than it deserves because we're not this conversation ha, although we've touched on it isn't really about, you know, hey, how come the US and China spy on each other in pretty egregious and sometimes deadly ways? And no one's having that conversation. Not just us, like the political class, right? We're talking about balloons. We're not talking about the real geopolitical fight happening between the world's two superpowers.

4 (23m 51s):
And that's what the balloon represents. It's sort of the the largest level and that's the more interesting conversation. But the balloon itself is, and the grand scheme of things kind of meaningless other than it reminds us of just the danger between the two countries and how easy it is to bash China at a time when it frankly deserves it a lot. But sort of where we are in terms of our rhetoric when it comes to China and where that relationship is when anyone, Democrat or Republican administration official or anyone else can just say China bad, do something about it without thinking about the broader consequences at play.

1 (24m 33s):
Alex Ward Politico used to be Alex Ward Vox. He doesn't remember the time he was on our show talking about Nancy's trip to Taiwan. But he does remember being our very first guest five years ago this month on our first episode, he writes the National Security Daily Newsletter over at Politico. subscribe@politico.com. Our show today was produced by Amanda Louellen. She had help from Miles Brian, Matthew Collette, Patrick Boyd, and Paul Robert Mosey. I'm Sean Ramis firm. This is today Explained.