1 (2s):
The Justice Department is gonna charge Hunter Biden later this month. Although we're not entirely sure with what at this point. There will be a charge related to Biden's 2018 purchase of a pistol. He lied on a federal form and said he wasn't using drugs when he bought it. Biden, of course, is in recovery for a crack addiction

2 (21s):
The hardest part is telling yourself what becomes the ultimate lie. That, this is the last time, this is the final hit. We're gonna get better and and gonna go to seek help.

1 (32s):
They're also likely to be charges that Hunter Biden didn't pay taxes for several years. He pled guilty to both of those things, expecting to enter into a plea deal that later fell through. Coming up. On today explained what the indictments might mean for the President's son and also for the President. Mr.

3 (48s):
President, are you worried about son being indicted? Mr. President

Crucible Moments (59s):
Support for this show today comes from Crucible Moments. Crucible Moments is a new podcast from Sequoia Capital and it takes you inside the pivotal decisions that shaped top companies like Airbnb, PayPal, 23, and Me and More. You can tune into Sequoia's new podcast series to discover how some of the most transformational companies of the modern era were built. Crucible Moments is out now and available everywhere you get your podcasts. and@cruciblemoments.com you can listen to Crucible Moments. Today,

Zelle (1m 33s):
Support for this episode comes from Zelle. You'd never fall for an online scam, right? You use two-factor authentication. Ignore calls from everyone named Spam risk and never use the password. Password. But scammers are getting more sophisticated and more active, which means they're finding millions of new victims every single year. The good news is that there's a lot you can do to protect yourself on the Wild, wild Web. For starters, Zelle wants to remind you only send money to people you know and trust. Zelle is available to United States Bank account holders only terms and conditions apply.

6 (2m 19s):
This is today explained.

7 (2m 22s):
Hi, my name is Aruna Viswanatha. I'm a reporter with the Wall Street Journal's, Washington Bureau. I cover the Justice Department law enforcement, the F B I. And for the past few years have been specifically covering a lot of politically sensitive investigations, including the investigation into Hunter Biden.

1 (2m 41s):
Hunter becomes the hunted part one, his laptop.

7 (2m 46s):
This all really starts, at least for the public when in the heat of the 2020 campaign, all of a sudden there's this laptop.

8 (2m 56s):
This is where the computer repair shop was located in a strip mall in Wilmington, Delaware. Hunter Biden is said to have brought his water damage laptop to the shop in April, 2019 with the hope of restoring the information. MCIs was successful and oh boy, what he saw on that laptop was sad and shocking.

7 (3m 17s):
It seems to have all sorts of personal information on it. Very personal photos of him doing drugs and being intimate with women. And a lot of his text messages about his business dealings.

9 (3m 29s):
Hunter Biden used to be on the board of a Ukrainian energy company called Burma. And John Paul McKay claims the laptop contained evidence that Hunter Biden used this connection with his father to help in this role.

7 (3m 43s):
And there were questions at the time about whether this laptop was really hits and you know, most of us would not, you know, forget that we left a laptop at a repair store. Most of us would, especially if there was like sensitive personal stuff on it, I think we would wanna go pick it up. But that kind of contributed to all this confusion around what this really was. It turns out this wasn actually his laptop, these were his most intimate details, sort of splashed for the world to see Joe Biden wins the election. And then a few weeks after that, all of a sudden Hunter Biden discloses to the world that he is under investigation and that he has just gotten a subpoena.

10 (4m 22s):
Hunter Biden said in a statement released by the Biden transition team, quote, I take this matter very seriously. But I am confident that a professional and objective review of these matters will demonstrate that I handled my affairs legally and appropriately, including with the benefit of professional tax advisors.

1 (4m 43s):
Part two, the investigation,

7 (4m 46s):
The investigation actually started back in 2018 and it had been kind of moving at, at a slow burn for a few years at that point. And this wasn in 2020 that it broke into the open. And what we've known for a while is that this investigation is into what Hunter Biden was doing, both when his father was vice president up until 2016, and then what he was doing for a few years after that. And it has a lot to do with whether he paid his taxes. It sort of touches on a lot of these foreign business dealings he had. He sat on the board of this Ukrainian energy company when his father was vice president.

7 (5m 27s):
He was getting payments for this. He doesn't really have a background in, you know, the energy industry in the region.

11 (5m 34s):
Looking back, did you make a mistake taking a spot on that board?

2 (5m 38s):
No, I don't think I made a mistake in taking the spot on the board. I think I made a mistake in terms of underestimating the, the way in which it would be used against me. And,

11 (5m 50s):
But you must have seen the optics even back then. You must have. No, I mean, how could you not have foreseen that

12 (5m 57s):
This was gonna look bad? Because I really didn't.

7 (5m 59s):
It all seemed a little questionable. And so at that point we find out prosecutors are investigating this wide range of activity that Hunter Biden had been involved in. And the guy that is running that investigation is the US attorney in Delaware who is appointed by Trump. He's a, a longtime prosecutor in that office. He has a a, a pretty non-partisan reputation. He wasn't sort of a politician before this, but he's also known as being quite slow. Joe Biden is elected president. He takes office, he appoints Merrick Garland as his Attorney General. And one of the first things that Merrick Garland does as Attorney General is say that he's going to keep David Weiss on to continue this investigation into Hunter Biden in order to sort of make sure that the public can have faith that the administration's political appointees are not interfering in this investigation and that the decision that ends up getting made is one that the public can trust.

7 (7m 4s):
So over the next few years, this investigation continues at a steady pace every few months. But David Weiss's office is, is very quiet. They don't really say anything about what they're doing. And, and that's sort of going on in the background.

1 (7m 21s):
Part three hunter's private troubles go public.

7 (7m 25s):
So even as the investigation itself goes somewhat quiet and we don't really have a, a great window into what's going on there, there's all these other avenues for information about Hunter Biden's kind of messy personal and business life to start coming out.

12 (7m 39s):
C b s news has obtained a letter from House Republicans demanding, yes, demanding that Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen share information about Hunter Biden's alleged suspicious foreign business dealings. The letter also accused

7 (7m 51s):
Biden administration and we have this paternity dispute that is unfolding in for, in Arkansas that's really providing another window into the really messy personal life of Hunter Biden's. Hunter

13 (8m 3s):
Biden is demanding a judge deny his four year old daughter from taking his last name.

7 (8m 9s):
It comes out that, you know, at his low point in 2018 when he is doing a lot of drugs and sleeping with a lot of women, he ends up sleeping with this woman and having a, a baby with her.

13 (8m 20s):
Why she's the love child with a former stripper named London Roberts, who Hunter denied knowing until a paternity test proved the little girl was his.

7 (8m 31s):
And then once that's sort of settled and he starts paying child support, he brings it back onto the public's radar by filing his own case, asking to reduce the child support payments because of his financial condition, he like can't afford what he had previously been obligated to pay. The

14 (8m 47s):
Hearing today lasted just over an hour afterwards, Hunter left by a back entrance and was quickly whisked away in a five car motorcade.

7 (8m 56s):
So all of this kind of keeps his very messy life, you know, still in the public view as this investigation is unfolding.

1 (9m 6s):
Part four, the whistleblowers

15 (9m 8s):
Investigators were not allowed to follow up on WhatsApp messages from Hunter Biden's Apple iCloud backup where he suggested he was sitting next to his father assistant United States attorney.

7 (9m 19s):
A lot of this ends up coming to a head earlier this year is starting around April when several agents who had worked on this criminal investigation into Hunter Biden at the I R Ss start coming forward and going to Congress and then ultimately testifying about what they view as improper interference in the investigation.

15 (9m 41s):
Based on my experience, I'm here to tell you that the Delaware US Attorney's office and Department of Justice handling the Hunter Biden tax investigation was very different from any other case in my 14 years at the I r s

7 (9m 53s):
And complaints about not being able to take investigative steps that they would've taken in any other normal case.

15 (10m 1s):
Prosecutors instructed investigators not to ask about the big guy or dad when conducting interviews. A lot

7 (10m 7s):
Of their complaints actually predate Joe Biden coming into office. And so a lot of it is even unfolding over the course of 2020 and how the investigation happened at that point. But then even after Joe Biden comes in and, and David Weiss is continuing to manage this investigation, these agents that had formerly worked on this investigation are saying he was succumbing to political pressure and not, not able to take the steps that they thought were appropriate. And so that adds a very potent dynamic just as David Weiss's team and Hunter Biden's team think they're reaching a deal.

1 (10m 44s):
Part five a done deal falls apart.

7 (10m 49s):
They think they've wrapped it up by July. Even with the whistleblowers coming forward, they seem to have reached this agreement where Hunter Biden will plead guilty to these two misdemeanor tax offenses.

16 (11m 1s):
Prosecutors are expected to recommend a sentence of probation instead of the maximum penalties for these charges, which include a year in jail for each tax offense. And up to 10 years in jail for the felony gun charge that alleges that Biden was in possession of a firearm despite being a drug user.

7 (11m 17s):
And everyone thinks this is gonna be in the rear view mirror after this, what they think is gonna be a brief court hearing in Delaware where the judge asked some questions, signs off on it and they're on their merry way. That is, you know, not what happened. Now

17 (11m 32s):
We do have some breaking news, we just want to bring you related to President Biden's son Hunter.

7 (11m 37s):
Early on that day it, it became clear that this wasn not what was gonna happen after the judge starts asking questions about the scope of the deal and what exactly it covers and what else is out there. Within a few minutes of her questions, it became very clear that what Hunter's team thought the deals covered and what the government thought the deals covered was, was pretty far apart that

17 (11m 60s):
Handgun. Our understanding now is that that plea deal with the D O J has fallen apart in court. We don't yet exactly

7 (12m 6s):
The deal unravels and things only get more heated between the government and Hunter Biden since then. And US attorney David Weiss thinks like they're not gonna go any further. They're willing to enter the deal they agreed to, but they're not willing to say they've wrapped everything up because they wanna continue their investigation. Hunter Biden says, no way, I'm not agreeing to that. And David Weiss thinks, okay, we're gonna have to move ahead and charge. And in order to do that, he goes to Attorney General Merrick Garland and is and says, Hey, I think I need to be a special counsel in order to continue to pursue this case. Merrick Garland gives him that status.

18 (12m 44s):
The appointment of Mr. Weiss reinforces for the American people, the department's commitment to both independence and accountability in particularly sensitive matters.

7 (12m 55s):
So we're in this very bizarre situation where two months ago, Hunter Biden thinks he's basically putting this all behind him. It's not gonna be an issue for his father's reelection campaign. He's basically done, he's not going to jail, he's gonna get probation. And then all that within a matter of weeks totally blows up. And the US attorney that also was expected to be stepping down soon after finishing this case is instead now a special counsel and has said that he's going to indict Hunter Biden in particular on the gun charge and presumably also on these tax charges.

1 (13m 37s):
Part six, what happens next

7 (13m 40s):
That I think is going to closely track what they have already filed in the agreement that he had expected to sign. So those agreements included what's known as a statement of facts, where it outlined what the government believed it could prove and what Hunter felt he could admit to. And so we would expect what we expect to be an indictment very soon to kind of track what they've already disclosed in terms of laying out how Hunter bought this gun, sort of misled the government when he tried to register it, and if they filed the tax charges as well this month we expect that to lay out many of the same details that they did this summer, which involve how he brought in all of this income, including a lot of foreign income and didn't end up reporting it to the I R S and didn't appropriately pay the taxes he owed on it at the time.

1 (14m 43s):
This wasn Aruna Viswanatha of the Wall Street Journal, Coming up, Hunter Biden's, messy personal life, his guns, his taxes, his drugs. These are all very American problems, but of course Hunter is the president's son. So what does all this mean for President Dad Biden and his reelection Chances Next November.

Amazon Web Services (AWS) (15m 9s):
Support for this episode comes from Amazon Web Services. Your applications are the cornerstone of your business. So how are you staying ahead with a w s? You can innovate without limits. A w s provides extensive, reliable and secure infrastructure designed to deliver the best performance at an optimal cost. With the broadest and deepest application development capabilities at your fingertips, you can reimagine every application, innovate without limits, learn more at go.aws/aea.

Noom (15m 49s):
Support for today's show comes from Noom. That's noon backwards, Noom. There's a lot of advice out there about what you should and shouldn't eat, but Noom is focused on why you eat. Noom uses science and personalization to help you manage your weight for the long, long-term. Noom psychology based approach helps you build new habits and behaviors and you decide how Noom fits into your life, not the other way around. Sarah Frank, she works on the business side of things at Vox Media and she had the chance to try out Noom. I'm someone who likes to do the New York Times news quiz every week, and Noom has a similar quiz each day where you can take a quiz about healthy eating. And I noticed that I definitely was getting some of those answers wrong at the beginning and I started to really get a sense of how my behaviors impact what I eat. You Can sign up for your trial today at Noom dot com. That's N O O m.com. Moon backwards to sign up for your trial today.

21 (16m 60s):
By the way, where's Hunter? Where is Hunter? Remember where's Hunter? It's

1 (17m 3s):
Today explained. We're here with Jonathan LaMere, he's the White House Bureau chief for Politico and he's host of the show way too early on M S N B C Jonathan. How is the Biden Camp responding to all of this?

22 (17m 16s):
In many ways they downplay it. They say that this is something that has been out in the open for some years, that Hunter Biden speaks very candidly about his problems with addiction. He has owned up to some of the mistakes he has made, in fact paid back taxes he owed. And it should be noted that the charges here are exactly that. It's the on taxes and then this gun charge, which is what the special counsel has signaled he could bring charges against. By the end of September, the White House has assembled a war room as the year has gone on about two dozen Lawyers legislative aides, communications professionals to sort of respond to Republican investigations for other administration and particularly those connected to Hunter Biden.

22 (17m 58s):
The Republicans of course suggest that Hunter Biden's business dealings were also illegal and involve his father that now president we're,

23 (18m 6s):
We're in communication with four former Biden family business associates, If, you want to call it that. They're cooperating with our investigation and, and I'll tell you, it's very concerning

22 (18m 18s):
Though. They have yet to provide evidence of either of those things and nor has there been a criminal charge connected to either of those things. So the White House is ready, but they feel like this is something that most voters don't care about.

1 (18m 31s):
Why do they feel it's something that most voters don't care about.

22 (18m 33s):
They feel like the men of this was known before the 2020 election. Hmm. And therefore it has already been litigated in the public eye. They also feel that the Republicans are playing a game of what about him and pointing to Hunter Biden and its legal woes and and connect, trying to connect them to his father as a means to distract and downplay these issues surrounding Donald Trump, who of course is currently been indicted four times, four different crimes. And they also point out that unlike Trump, Hunter Biden's name does not appear on any ballot that he's not someone who is seeking office or works in the White House. And they point to polling. That shows that most Americans have said that they don't feel like the Republicans are using their time wisely going after these investigations.

22 (19m 17s):
A counter though would be a poll just this week that did suggest that a majority of Americans do have a sense that President Biden had at least some sort of knowledge or involvement with his son's business dealings.

1 (19m 29s):
House speaker Kevin McCarthy says the Republicans might open an impeachment inquiry into President Biden if

24 (19m 36s):
The Biden administration continues to fight to withhold information that could really clear all this up. Did they take bribes? Did they deal in the business? If they hold that up, we would have to move to an impeachment inquiry.

1 (19m 50s):
How serious is that and how would that work?

22 (19m 52s):
It is becoming more and more serious. So McCarthy has sort of vacillated as to whether he wants to do this or not. He had floated a few months ago before the summer recess that he might then heti. He seemed to back off it, even telling members of his conference. We don't have the evidence yet to go forward with this, but he is under a lot of pressure to take the step. Former President Trump, of course, running now for another term has been squeezing him to do so.

21 (20m 17s):
Another email referenced 10% held by Hunter for the big

25 (20m 23s):
Guy. I wonder who the big guy was. The big guy. He doesn't look so big to me.

22 (20m 27s):
Far right. Members of his caucus have also suggested that they want to see Biden impeach. They've been saying that for a long time. Yeah. Sarah,

26 (20m 35s):
I wanna read the actual tweet from Matt Gaetz that has caused this stir in the house. He wrote, we've got to seize the initiative. That means forcing votes on impeachment. And if Speaker McCarthy stands in her way, he may not have the job long.

22 (20m 49s):
And there is a sense from the White House that McCarthy may go through with it may, it's not clear that he has the votes. It's certainly not clear that it will ever land on an actual impeachment, but at least the inquiry may go forward in an effort by McCarthy to placate those on the far right who are unhappy with him about the debt limit deal he struck earlier this year, who are already unhappy about the spending boats they're gonna have to take later this month and that this is McCarthy trying to throw them a bone and saying, look, I need you to do this for me. But, I'll do this for you.

1 (21m 24s):
Quid pro quo. I think we all love in Washington. What is Joe Biden's overall strategy, he and his team, what is their overall strategy to deal with any potential fallout? Do they have sort of one method of we're gonna ignore it or we're gonna tack it head on, or we're gonna get Hunter out there and you know, make clear that he's a good guy and a good dad. What's the arc here? What's the story they wanna tell?

22 (21m 46s):
It's sort of been a hybrid approach to start. They largely ignored it. They believed that the best thing the president to do was keep being president. Hmm. But of course there is the personal toll this weighs on Joe Biden. Hunter Biden, of course his lone surviving son. Bo

27 (21m 60s):
Biden was only 46 years old when he died. A two-time Delaware Attorney General considered a rising star with a potentially bright future in national politics.

22 (22m 9s):
Those close to the president say he worries about his son deeply and speaks to him on a nearly daily basis. As I mentioned, they assembled this war room to push back against Republican efforts. They're being more aggressive there. They've gone on the attack more in the public relations sphere, whether in email statements are on Twitter, pushing back against g o p claims, highlighting moments that they feel show that G O P hypocrisy with impeachment. But they know this is going to be an issue. And look, no White House wants to go down the road of an impeachment inquiry. They are lengthy, they are time consuming. They can sometimes lead to unexpected places. They generate bad headlines at the end of it. They feel that they'll win the public relations argument that this will backfire on Republicans.

22 (22m 51s):
They point to how Bill Clinton's approval ratings went up after he was impeached. They also note that when Donald Trump was impeached the first time, his ratings even went up a little bit. So they feel like that the American people next year at the ballot box will punish the Republicans. If this is seen as an unserious impeachment inquiry,

1 (23m 11s):
What is the Biden team saying about the possibility of a public trial? I imagine that could get very embarrassing for all involved. Is there like a plan to to prevent it if they can.

22 (23m 23s):
I mean certainly they don't want one and Hunter Biden's attorneys still are insisting that the plea deal stand, that it still be valid, that it can still be maybe tweaked and negotiated, but that he is indeed willing to plead guilty as he was a few weeks ago when he was in court. So they believe that could still be operable and that would prevent a trial if it were to go to trial, though yes, of course it would be potentially public. It could potentially be be embarrassing. And there is a sense around Hunter Biden that though he has not been at all charged with a crime in terms of his business or trying to profit off his father's name, but some of this his conduct is, is unseemly by Hunter Biden's own admission. That in terms of his, his years battling addictions, you're

2 (24m 1s):
Smoking crack around the clock. Drinking cord of vodka a day by yourself in room is absolutely completely debilitating.

22 (24m 10s):
If some of that were to become revived in the public eye, of course it would be deeply embarrassing. Yeah.

1 (24m 15s):
You know, you talked about Bill Clinton, you talked about Donald Trump after they were impeached. There's something else I've been thinking about. The United States is a country in the middle of an opioid epidemic where a country where lots of people have guns and maybe shouldn't have them. Hunter Biden could be anybody's messy younger brother or anybody's messy cousin. Is there a chance that instead of hurting Joe Biden with voters, this humanizes him? Because it's something that people can kind of relate to. Oh, your kid's a mess.

22 (24m 47s):
I think it's a good point and there's a good chance in fact, white House aids have said that all along, that they feel like they know that so much of this country does struggle with addiction, particularly opioids, that they feel like this humanizes the Biden family and also potentially even makes Biden appear very sympathetic. A year or so ago, there was a leaked voicemail from President Biden. He wasn't president at the time, but to his son Hunter, in which he's expressing real concern and worry,

28 (25m 13s):
Ecstatic calling and you, I love you, love you more than the whole world pal. Can I get some help? I don't know what to do. I know you don't either, but I'm here no matter what you need, no matter what you need. I love you.

22 (25m 35s):
And in the moment this wasn released, this wasn deemed almost a gotcha in the far right media, and very quickly this wasn realized that no, this actually made Joe Biden look very human and like a loving father. So they do believe that that is a possibility here as well. That that Americans will look at this situation with Hunter and see a little bit of themselves in it.

1 (26m 8s):
This wasn politico's, Jonathan Lumiere. Today's episode was produced by Miles Bryan and edited by Miranda Kennedy. this wasn fact checked by Serena Solin and engineered by Patrick Boyd. I'm Noel King. It's today explained

6 (26m 46s):
Fox Creative.

30 (26m 48s):
This is advertiser content from SC Johnson.

29 (26m 53s):
My name is Colin, also known as Trash Colon. Did you know that only about 9% of plastic waste gets recycled? That's because recycling is not always intuitive. A lot of us are wish cycling, which is when you toss something into the recycling bin, hoping it'll get recycled. It's good intention, but unfortunately it's not that simple. Like plastic bags, they can be recycled, but not when they're mixed in with other recyclables. They can clog sorting machines and cause an entire batch of recyclables to end up in the landfill. So a little bit of research goes a long way. Look up your city's recycling program to find out what they can take and make a plan for items they can't.

29 (27m 37s):
It's normal to feel overwhelmed by the plastic crisis. But what keeps me hopeful is taking small actions every single day, knowing that those actions add up.

30 (27m 48s):
Learn more about how to end the Wish cycle at sc johnson.com/action matters.

Viator (27m 56s):
Traveling is amazing. Dealing with logistics, not so much via tour can help make travel simple and enjoyable. Via Tour has over 300,000 bookable experiences, ranging from simple tours to extreme adventures. Plus, via tour's experiences have millions of real traveler reviews. So you'll have the information you need to book the best activities for your trip. Download the Via Tour app now and use code via Tour 10 for 10% off your first Booking one app over 300,000 experiences. You'll remember. Do more with via tour.