0 (0s):
Looking back. We might have expected this. The us is a nation of many hardworking, honest people. It is also a nation of a not insignificant number of scammers. When the COVID pandemic ravaged the country's economy, the federal government intervened with trillions of dollars in assistance for people and for businesses. Two-ish years later, we find the money helped many honest people and the scammers. Wow.

1 (28s):
In the midst of the pandemic, the government gave unemployment benefits to the incarcerated, the imaginary and the dead. It sent money to farms that turned out to be front yards. It gave loans to 342 people who said their name was slash a,

0 (42s):
There is of course a third type of American, the wide-eyed optimist who wants to make it right.

2 (48s):
My message to those cheats out there is this. You can't hide. We're gonna find you. We're gonna make you pay backwards. You stolen and hold you accountable. Under the law

0 (56s):
Coming up on today, explained

3 (59s):
Support for the program. Today comes from the financial times, better known by their friends as the Ft. They know that quality journalism matters, and that's why they aim to cover important issues with breadth and depth. The Ft covers topics outside of finance and markets, just in case you're wondering they, they touch on stories that impact not only your career, but your life and the wider world as well. It's a big wide world. You can visit ft.com/today to read free articles and save 50% off an annual digital subscription.

0 (1m 37s):
Etro captain Kirk. They may be aliens, hobbits or space captains, but they still have to eat. And we at gastropod are here to find out what they eat and why

4 (1m 47s):
This episode gastropod goes behind the scenes to find out how food stylists in Hollywood bring all those pan galactic Gargo blasters and limbus bread to life.

0 (1m 56s):
We also talk to famous side by and fantasy authors to see what role food plays in their fictional universes.

4 (2m 3s):
Stay tuned for replicators Reese's pieces and roast peacock, find gastro pot and subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (2m 18s):
It's today explained I'm Noel king. There is perhaps no one. We wanted to talk to more about the scamming and the scammers than this man.

1 (2m 27s):
My name's Dave Faren. I'm an investigative reporter for the New York times.

0 (2m 30s):
And in the New York times, you call the misallocation of some of this money, the biggest fraud in American history, quite acclaim, my friend, what happened?

3 (2m 40s):
The

1 (2m 40s):
Short answer is that in the rush to get aid money out to people, the government took on a task. It had really never tried to do before, which was to judge the individual needs of millions and millions of people in businesses. The

6 (2m 54s):
Closure of restaurants and bars could impact more than 9 million workers nationwide layoffs for some 3,600 workers have been announced so far with the majority being in the entertainment and leisure

1 (3m 5s):
Industry. And then almost immediately gave up and trusted those people and those businesses to quote self certify their need.

7 (3m 12s):
Small business loans can be turned around within 36 hours. For some businesses, unemployment insurance will go up by $600 a week as soon as next week. And

1 (3m 22s):
Basically it ran these giant aid programs on the honor system and allowed people just to swear that they met the qualifications to swear that they were harmed by COVID 19 and sent the money out the door with minimal checks. So, you know, that all it took to get that money was a willingness to lie and not much more.

0 (3m 41s):
And I guess many Americans had that willingness. Where was the oversight here?

1 (3m 47s):
There was some oversight when the money was given out, there were systems in place that were supposed to be checking to make sure people weren't defrauding the system, but they were just not very good checks. There is some enforcement on the back end. There is some oversight on the back end, but it is so much slower than the money went out. You know, the money went out at a lightning pace and now the oversight is coming at this pace of a snail. There was just this real mismatch that allowed a lot of money to get out the door to people who shouldn't have gotten it.

0 (4m 14s):
And who's conducting the investigation into the fraud who's involved here.

1 (4m 19s):
The better answer is who isn't

0 (4m 21s):
Oh, dear.

1 (4m 24s):
There are federal law enforcement from 21 different inspectors, general government of justice. The IRS, the postal service, the secret service, lots of different government agencies are now trying to track these folks down as are, you know, in some cases, states, bank officers. There's lots of people who are chasing after them now, but they move even at their fastest, a lot slower than the fraudsters did to get the money. What

0 (4m 48s):
Are the most common types of fraud being investigated?

1 (4m 50s):
One of them is unemployment insurance. There was also a $600 a week, extra payment that you could get if you got unemployment because of COVID 19. The other two programs are both loan programs at the small business administration.

8 (5m 3s):
The SBA that's, the us small business administration is offering low interest rate, federal disaster loans for businesses suffering as a result of the coronavirus.

1 (5m 13s):
One of them, the paycheck protection program used private banks to lend money to businesses who were in trouble because of COVID for the government guaranteed those loans. The other was called the economic injury disaster loan program. And in that case, the government itself was giving out the money, both loans. And in some cases what they called advanced grants, basically money. You didn't have to repay, unlike a loan, the government would give you to tide you over until they could approve your loan.

0 (5m 43s):
Is there a particular type or types of businesses that were especially involved in, in fraud?

1 (5m 50s):
Well, at least the most commonly prosecuted kind of fraud against the loan programs involved businesses that just didn't exist so

9 (5m 57s):
Well. Now when the phone rings, you have to answer van industries, I'm van industries, right? What is that? You're in latex, latex, right.

1 (6m 7s):
You know, or they existed on paper, but they had no employees. So people would say in 2019, I had, you know, a million dollars of revenue and a hundred employees and, you know, get a loan on that basis to keep a business of that size going when really they either didn't have a business at all, or, you know, the business existed on paper, but it was, you know, effectively defunct.

0 (6m 26s):
So there were both businesses and there were individuals involved in the fraud. What are some of the flagrant examples involving individuals, people who got unemployment insurance,

1 (6m 36s):
Unemployment insurance is overseen by the federal government, but run directly by the states. And so there was a kind of fraud that took advantage of individual state governments. The best example, there is a rapper named nuke bile. He made a rap video in late 2020 about how he was scamming the California employment development department by basically sending in fake unemployment claims, you know, with other people's information and getting money back.

10 (7m 2s):
I did been swiping for go to the bank of the steak. At

1 (7m 5s):
Least the he made about that was called D D, which is the name of the government agency.

10 (7m 10s):
Todd two, I got a shot at the Donald Trump. I did

11 (7m 13s):
Swipe the department of justice, says a rapper who bragged in a music video about getting rich from an unemployment scam is now facing federal charges

12 (7m 22s):
And IBA

11 (7m 26s):
A second man, in the video wraps, you gotta sell cocaine. I just file a claim.

10 (7m 32s):
You gotta sell cocaine. I can file a claim coming straight

1 (7m 35s):
To the, so there were people like him who were just scamming individual agencies. And there were also lots of people who were sending the same profile, the same social security number, the same information to a bunch of different states and getting unemployment benefits. And many of them at the same time, the most egregious example of that, there was one social security number. So one person who got unemployment benefits in 29 different states, you know, there a lot of them that are just so ridiculous, you know, that you think how in the world did anybody or any machine that was working in government, look at this and think, oh yeah, well, this seems like a reasonable one. There was an example we used in the lead of our story of people who put their name as NA, like not applicable and still got loans from the small business administration.

1 (8m 17s):
Like what, who, who looked at that? Who thought like, how could the system allow that we had this one example of a, a mother and daughter in Westchester county, New York who'd been charged with basically running a ring where they helped other people put in fraudulent applications and the whole time they're doing it, they're just joking and laughing and sending emojis, you know, laughing, crying emojis to their friends and how easy it is. You know, we, one example we said in the story, a friend of the ring leaders is like, I wanna send in this application and, and the ringleader writes back, you bake four laugh, crying emojis, you know? So they just, they made up a baking business. The co-conspirator writes back LOL. And there were lots of examples like that. People didn't steal because they were desperate, they stole and they spent the money on the most ridiculous, you know, luxury items, things that nobody needs.

1 (8m 59s):
The best example is a guy who got an $85,000 loan for a fake business. And he used it to buy a $57,000 Pokemon card.

0 (9m 9s):
Can you talk about the hierarchy of the investigation? Like the woman in Westchester, how does the investigation into her begin and then where does it get kicked to

1 (9m 21s):
The amazing things to me about this story was just the huge volume of tips and leads that investigators have. You know, they don't have to go out and prospect around for tips and leads. They're buried in them. The way they get them is either banks call the government and say, look, X person has an account with us. It's just a personal account. It rarely has any money in it at all. And all of a sudden, she just put in a small business loan for a hundred thousand dollars. You know, we think that's suspicious. In some cases, the banks will freeze your loan until you can prove that you really have a business banks do more due diligence than the government. In other cases, the small business administration will run checks after the fact and say, well, okay, in, in hindsight, we gave out a whole bunch of loans that, you know, had these red flags of fraud.

1 (10m 3s):
You know, people, a lot of loans came from the same address. A lot of loans used the same phone number. And they'll send that over to investigators. In some cases, there's a hotline where if you feel like your brother-in-law stole money from PPP, you can call 'em up and, you know, call up the SBA and tell them. So those are the ways that the cases get started. What we heard was just that there are so many cases like this, that they've tried to triage them. And the way that they've tried to triage them is both to try to look for the cases, to start with the cases where the most money was stolen. To start with the cases where there was like the one in Westchester, a ring leader, somebody who was organizing a whole bunch of other people to do small frauds. And then other cases where, you know, there's some sort of deterrent value, you know, if they feel like there's something they can do that sends a message that this is a bad idea.

1 (10m 47s):
We didn't find many cases where they went after somebody who just stole $10,000 or $20,000. Usually there had to be a bigger number involved or some other sort of aggravating factor.

0 (11m 2s):
Okay. So a lot of people are going to get away with this unless they went big. Yeah. How many people have been charged with fraud?

1 (11m 10s):
About 1500 so far 50, which I started out thinking like, well, that's a huge number. You know? It is, it is a big number. Yeah. You know, the federal judiciary is a slow moving selective. I mean, they make a few cases at a time, but they make big cases. So 1500 cases in that system is a lot, but it's just a drop in the bucket. I mean, it's such a tiny fraction of the actual crimes that seem to be out there waiting to be investigated.

0 (11m 34s):
Has anybody been convicted yet

1 (11m 35s):
At the last count about 450 people have been convicted of one of these crimes, because the evidence is so strong. This is not, you know, evidence you have to make with forensic tools or testimony or anything it's law you told is in the government documents. And the fact that you didn't have a business is in some other government documents. So one investigator compared it to footsteps left in concrete, the clues of these frauds are not going away. It's just a matter of getting to them.

0 (11m 59s):
And have you gotten any sense of how much money the government hopes to recover?

1 (12m 5s):
No. One of the hardest parts about this story was trying to get people just to estimate how much they think was stolen. You know what, what's the pool of money that's out there. And you know, you, the, the floor is somewhere between one and 6 billion. That's, what's been the amount of fraud that's been charged so far be what's the ceiling. And you know, there's some really wild numbers out there. 163 billion potentially in fraud in the department of labor, from unemployment fraud, you know, somewhere in the high dozens, maybe over a hundred billion worth of fraud in the small business loan programs. You know, it's like you're investigating a bank robbery and you still don't know how much was taken.

0 (12m 40s):
Some folks are gonna go down. It's just a matter of time. Do you have a sense of how long these investigations will be going on?

1 (12m 48s):
When we talked to the investigators, they at the time were pushing for and later it got Congress and the president to approve an, an extension of the statute of limitations.

2 (12m 56s):
The chief prosecutor told Congress that it was essential, essential to extend the statute of limitations for certain pandemic fraud, to extend to 10 years, to make sure fraudsters can't run out the clock.

1 (13m 10s):
I don't know how realistic that actually is. A lot of things are gonna happen in the next 10 years. A lot of other priorities will come along, but he said, you know, to make real progress in this, we can't do it in five years. We're gonna need 10.

2 (13m 22s):
The watch dogs are back

5 (13m 28s):
Coming

0 (13m 28s):
Up next. Why so much of the scamming was actually legal,

13 (13m 41s):
A

14 (13m 42s):
Global developing story of what could be the biggest medical scandal and decades, the

15 (13m 47s):
Data behind the most influential theory of what causes Alzheimer's disease may have been manipulated. The

16 (13m 52s):
Study that more than 16 years of research was based on had tampered with the

17 (13m 57s):
Results. And if that turns out to be true, it means about a billion dollars in us. Taxpayer money used for Alzheimer's research over the past 16 years may have been for nothing.

14 (14m 7s):
How will Alzheimer's research recover from a decade and a half long while goose chase and lost opportunity to find effective treatments

13 (14m 18s):
This week on unexplainable, the field of Alzheimer's research reckons with the revolution that evidence in a key study may have been manipulated. So what does this mean for over a decade's worth of research and what does it mean for the families of Alzheimer's patients follow unexplainable, wherever you listen. New episodes, every Wednesday

3 (14m 41s):
Support for the show today comes from wealth, front two facts from wealth front. They were voted the best overall robo advisor by in Investopedia. Another one they currently manage over 27 billion in assets for nearly half a million customers. Here's how it works. You answer a few questions about your risk, comfort level and future plans, and then you'll get a personalized portfolio. Plus you'll get a $50 bonus. If you sign up today, the app's designed to be simple to use and to help you build long term wealth and weather economic volatility, you can get a $50 bonus when you start investing with Wealthfront to sign up today, just visit wealthfront.com/explained that is wealthfront.com/explained, by the way, this is a paid endorsement from Wealthfront

0 (15m 45s):
Today explained we're back with David Otter. He's a professor of economics at MIT, a labor economist who works on earnings, inequality, and technological and global forces that affect opportunity. Some weeks back David, you co-authored a study with a title that deserves a shout out for clarity quote, the 800 billion paycheck protection program. Where did the money go? And why did it go there? David? What was the point of the paycheck protection program? The

18 (16m 14s):
Point of the program was to prevent small businesses from failing and in the process firing or laying off many, many workers. And so the name paycheck protection, I think conveys at least part of the purpose was to protect the paychecks of those workers. Now, the program also authorize some expenditure on non payroll expenses that could be used for suppliers, rents, et cetera.

0 (16m 38s):
How is PPP supposed to work? Who would apply, who would be responsible and who would get the money?

18 (16m 45s):
So the criteria were very loose. The program was almost untargeted. Essentially. You had to be an employer with fewer than 500 workers or in some cases or exceptions for that. And you had to say that you were significantly affected by the pandemic, which is as you can see a rather nebulous term. And, and then you could receive a check for up to 10 weeks of payroll. Then you had to use that to have that money forgiven. If it weren't forgiven, it would be a low interest loan, but the vast majority of all PPP payments have been forgiven as of now more than 90%, how

0 (17m 22s):
Many businesses received these loans

18 (17m 24s):
In total about 11 million checks were written, wow, these checks were much, much larger than the ones going to households or individuals. They were, you know, some of them were as much as 10 million. So the potential for kind of misallocation of that funding is, is really vast when you're writing checks that large to a comparatively small number of businesses.

0 (17m 45s):
Let's talk about some of the misallocation. You recently, along with a number of colleagues looked to see who benefited most from this 800 billion loan program broadly, what did you find

18 (17m 60s):
Found the program did some of what it was intended to do.

19 (18m 3s):
We have close to 150 employees and it allowed us to stay open, allowed us to compete with the unemployment benefits. It was such a blessing to be able to stay in

18 (18m 12s):
Business. We estimate that it increased employment by about two to 3 million person, years of employment. That means, you know, one person for one year is a person year. Now, if you were to talk to this small business administration at the time, they always said, well, 45 million jobs were supported by PPP. So how do we come up with two to 3 million? Well, the answer is that the firms that took PPP loans did have 45 million employees, but that doesn't mean they would've laid off 45 million employees had they not received these loans. Many, many firms were not that financially distressed during the pandemic

6 (18m 49s):
Construction technical services, manufacturing and healthcare made up roughly half of the loans that had been approved.

18 (18m 57s):
You were in trucking. If you were in manufacturing, all kinds of services, they kept going. And so they would've largely retained implement. What that means is that effectively only about 25 to 30% of all of the PPP money ultimately went to paychecks that wouldn't have been paid, meaning the remainder went to business owners and accreditors and so on. And because business owners and creditors and shareholders are drawn disproportionately from high income households, we estimate that about three quarters of the PPP money ultimately went to the top fifth of all us households,

0 (19m 39s):
Two to 3 million people kept their jobs for a year because of PPP. That is not half bad.

18 (19m 46s):
It's not, it's it's success in that sense. However, the cost of that was extremely high. And it's important to remember that had those workers lost their jobs. They would've received pandemic unemployment insurance benefits. Huh? Right. So they wouldn't necessarily have been in dire straits. Now it did keep businesses alive. On top of keeping workers employed. There are certainly small businesses that would've closed their doors. Had it not been for PPP. You know, if you talk to people, some small business owners will say this program was a lifeline. It saved my business. And that's absolutely true. I that's completely uncontested, but many, many of the businesses and especially the larger ones that receive PPP loans probably would've kept going just fine.

18 (20m 29s):
It increased profitability. And another provision of the law that was changed X post is you didn't have to pay tax on that money. Even if it recruited to profits, like you would normally pay corporate tax on profitable here, PPP money. Wasn't counted against that. So if you made an extra million, cuz you got a PPP loan for a million, you actually got a tax subsidy on that. So it was actually better than free money. It was money that you were subsidized to take.

0 (20m 56s):
You said the words top fifth. And I took a notation. Can we return to that? This money seems to have ended up in the pockets of people who don't need that much money. But tell me, tell me what I may be missing.

18 (21m 7s):
No, that's correct. Oh, you know, when you give money to business owners, business owners are disproportionately though, not exclusively members of high income households as our shareholders, as our creditors of businesses. And as a consequence, if the money doesn't directly go to the workers of those businesses, that means that the remainder goes to those individuals and

0 (21m 30s):
They weren't necessarily using that loan money to keep people on payrolls. There were loopholes that allowed them to use it. In other ways,

18 (21m 38s):
Loophole is sort of too strong, a word in the sense that the programmed rules were so untargeted. And so non-binding that once you got the check, most things that you would do with it would be legal, not everything. If you went out and bought yourself a bright yellow Lamborghini and drove it around at, you know, super legal speeds around the highway and you never even owned a business, that would be illegal. But if you got the money, fired all your employees and then at the end of the year, rehired them and just did your regular business. You could keep the money. For example, if you're a large hotel, you could receive the check, dismiss all your workers claim that you were not able to because the pandemic reopen and then you reopen at the end of the year, you could hire a completely different set of workers potentially at lower wages and you would keep the money.

0 (22m 24s):
All right. So if I'm taking money and I'm not paying my employees, but I have the money and I'm a business owner and I have any brains whatsoever, I'm gonna pay off debts. I'm gonna use it for operational costs. I'm gonna pay off my landlord

18 (22m 36s):
Or you could pay yourself or

0 (22m 38s):
I could pay myself.

18 (22m 39s):
Sure. I mean, a lot of businesses are what are called S corporations. They're kind of a, it's a cash accounting system. So everything that isn't paid to suppliers and to employees and so on becomes personal income of the business owner. Certainly we saw in the hotel industry, particularly that there was a lot of hotels that received money, closed their doors and laid off their workforces. And even for example, charter schools, for-profit schools or non-for-profit schools continued to be paid for having their students. They received additional federal support during the pandemic. And they also, many of them received P loans, forgivable loans, even though there's no sense in which their businesses were obviously adversely impacted.

18 (23m 25s):
But again, I wanna point out that's not illegal. That is how the rules were written to actually do something illegal under PPP. You have to do something fraudulent, meaning you'd have to claim you're a business when you weren't a business or that you had millions of dollars in payroll when you didn't and then you took the money and used it for some, you know, obviously illegitimate purpose that didn't qualify as, you know, suppliers, workers, or just standard profit taking

0 (23m 51s):
Some of this seems understandable. I don't know if I were a business owner and had some debts and the government was like, here's some free money. I I'm, I of

18 (23m 59s):
Course you would,

0 (23m 60s):
Right? Yes, of course I would.

18 (24m 2s):
And they all did. No, there's almost nobody that didn't. So take up of the program was, you know, approximately 94%.

0 (24m 9s):
So in that event, what went so wrong here, run through a list, everything you would change.

18 (24m 18s):
So the real fundamental deep problem is that the United States has archaic ossified neglected administrative systems that don't allow it to act like a modern country in administering a, a large insurance program. So in many other countries, for example, Canada, our neighbor to the north, they have what are called short-time work programs. Short-time work means during a recession, an employer might say, oh, I'm gonna, I'm gonna send half my half staff home, or I'm gonna send everyone home with only 20 hours instead of 40 hours, the government can see that in real time through the unemployment insurance records. And it can just pay those workers for the lost hours.

18 (24m 59s):
It doesn't have to pay right, a check to the firm to say, you give that to your workers. It just pays them. The us government does not have the capability to do that because we have 50 state, unemployment insurance systems, each of them, 50 years out of date. So there was no capacity to do the type of targeted lending or giving that you would ideally want to do.

0 (25m 22s):
And so if the federal government were to come to you and say, professor David Otter, we are gonna give you 800 billion to fix these problems. What would you spend the money on?

18 (25m 34s):
The starting point would be to take our patchwork unemployment insurance system, which is run differently in each of the 50 states, but with lots of federal subsidies and turn it into a national unemployment insurance system that has consistent rules, that doesn't view the unemployed as a cost, but rather as you know, beneficiaries of the insurance program and that had moderate administrative systems such that it could be used to help workers who are losing hours or losing employment as a result of economic conditions,

0 (26m 15s):
Today's show was produced by John Aarons. Congratulations to this man on his recent NUPT tools, it was edited by, by Matthew collect. It was fact checked by Serena Solan. It was engineered by Paul Robert mosey. I'm Noel king it's today explained

21 (26m 51s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. That's why cities working to help tackle climate change, help provide a path out of poverty and help close the racial wealth gap. Some might say this is idealistic, but having ambitious goals is what helps all of us make meaningful progress to address worldwide problems. It's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at city.com/esg G.