0 (1s):
This week the Senate is expected to vote on the National Defense Authorization Act. Her friends call her simply the Defense bill. 866 billion for different parts of the US military and other areas of national defense each year, this bill passes This year it's taken an interesting turn, Kern, when it was in the house, the conservative Freedom Caucus added some amendments into the defense bill that are more about culture wars than actual wars. They're related to D E I initiatives. Abortion, transgender Rights House, Speaker, Kevin McCarthy said the following, should you not get it, a

2 (39s):
Military cannot defend themselves if you train them in. Woke

0 (44s):
Today, on today explained the war over defense spending.

3 (1m 1s):
I'm so sorry ma'am. I know you need this medicine, but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

4 (1m 7s):
Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one. Wait,

5 (1m 11s):
Who are you?

4 (1m 12s):
I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one.

5 (1m 20s):
No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

1 (1m 30s):
This

6 (1m 30s):
Is one of those things that comes along very rarely. It's, it's gonna just completely revolutionize the world.

7 (1m 37s):
Over the last decade, Tesla has reset the future of cars. The

8 (1m 40s):
Entire American auto industry was totally convinced electric cars were impossible.

7 (1m 45s):
Now with the rest of the industry racing to go electric, will Tesla continue to lead the charge or run out of juice? The Tesla Shockwave hits Wednesday, July 26th. Follow land of the Giants wherever you listen. New episodes out every Wednesday.

0 (2m 6s):
It's today explained. I'm Noel King Lee. Zoe is a politics Reporter at Vox. She's been covering the defense bill, including this fight over the amendments. The top line is that the defense bill is the latest thing to be weaponized by Republicans as a vehicle for them to mount their culture wars.

2 (2m 25s):
We don't want Disneyland to train our military. We want our men and women in the the military to have every defense possible and that's what our bill does.

0 (2m 32s):
So to get into it a little bit more, the defense bill is typically bipartisan, but it recently passed the house on a mostly partisan vote because Republicans added a ton of controversial amendments on issues like abortion, trans rights and de and I. What are the amendments? What's in this bill? The amendments focus on a couple hot button social issues. So the first tries to roll back the Department of Defense's policy that pays for travel for abortion. And the logic that D O D has offered for that policy is that many service members have no say in where they get stationed. So if they have to travel for abortion for healthcare, the military will cover that cost.

0 (3m 15s):
And a lot of Republicans have taken issue with that.

9 (3m 18s):
This illegal Biden endorsed policy has no place in our military taxpayer money provided to D O D is intended to provide for our national defense and our national security not to promote and support the Biden administrative administration's radical and immoral pro-abortion agenda. The

0 (3m 33s):
Second Amendment is one that BRE echoes a lot of what we're seeing across the country. It would prohibit the military from covering gender affirming care for trans service members, including surgeries and hormone therapies.

10 (3m 46s):
The question that must be asked is whether we're having trans individuals makes the United States a more lethal force and whether it helps recruit the best and most effective talent for the United States military. And the answer to that is a clear and resounding no.

0 (4m 4s):
And the third eliminates the Pentagon's de and i office and is again, you know, sort of an echo of a lot of what we see in across the country in terms of Republicans trying to attack these efforts in other states.

10 (4m 16s):
The military's sole purpose is to provide for the defense of our nation. Our military's focus should be the protection of the American people and our freedoms, not liberals feelings.

0 (4m 30s):
So Congress votes on this every year. Does it become a controversy every year? It does not. So typically it is bipartisan. If you look at the last couple of years, it's been an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote. You saw I think almost a hundred Republicans almost every year joining with Democrats to pass recent NDAs. But historically you have seen Democrats also use it in this way in terms of it being a vehicle for partisan amendments, things and messages that they wanna get across as well. Like what? What have the Democrats done in the past? So in 2019, I believe you saw amendments saying things like, you know, d o D can't invest in any Trump properties or give money to Trump affiliated businesses.

0 (5m 12s):
And I think you also saw more amendments that were polarizing that year, including trying to end prisoners to Guantanamo Bay, which Republicans were against

2 (5m 21s):
The N D A A was a test for this new majority. It was a test of whether they could put their radicalism aside and work across the aisle to do what was right for the country. The Democrats, or should I say many call themselves socialist Democrats failed that test

0 (5m 42s):
In other years. You've also seen amendments related to student loans, for example, which is not as tangential per se to defense explicitly the injection of partisan priorities has happened in the past. What's so different this time? Why is everybody saying this is unprecedented when you just seem to suggest this is actually very precedent? Right, right. I do think Congress tends to kind of repeat some of these patterns. This year does feel unique in that a lot of these amendments are so extreme and were pushed by members of the far right contingent in-house Republicans. And so they feel particularly ideological and controversial.

0 (6m 24s):
And I think that's why this year feels so different, which house Republicans were pushing these amendments. So these were all of familiar cast of characters, members of the House, freedom Caucus, you and Matt Rosendale

10 (6m 38s):
Allowing this radical trans agenda to infiltrate our military will put our service members and my constituents in harm's way.

0 (6m 47s):
Ronnie Jackson, the days

9 (6m 48s):
Of the radical left ignoring the law and pushing their destructive social agenda in the military are done.

0 (6m 54s):
And then you also had a slate of interesting amendments aimed at cutting off aid to Ukraine that were pushed forward by Marjorie Taylor Greene and Matt Gates.

11 (7m 4s):
While our troops are not yet on the ground in Ukraine fighting to defend another country's border, most Americans fear that could soon be the case because they know Washington's blood lust for war is an addiction that seems almost impossible to be undone.

0 (7m 22s):
One of the common themes that you hear from a lot of these lawmakers is that the military should not be a way to talk about identity, to talk about diversity, to have any type of messaging that's not like we're solely focused on the national defense. Obviously the counter argument to that is that discussions like this are integral to service members feeling included and feeling able to do their jobs. On the Ukraine front you hear a lot of arguments being like

12 (7m 49s):
The American taxpayer is underwriting all of the pensions for every single government official Ukraine Ukraine. And we don't do that for the people who put out our fires and protect our streets.

0 (8m 3s):
What about moderate Republicans? There are some in the party presumably who don't want these amendments or who think like, guys let's, let's take it elsewhere, right? Let's not do this in the defense bill, what are they saying? Right? Yeah, yeah. You actually had some moderate Republicans very small to, to vote against the abortion amendment and you also had people like Rep Nancy Mace who did vote for the amendment. But she was very upset about it and she had some of the most colorful quotes I would say about this issue. She called it an asshole amendment.

13 (8m 36s):
I did not like the idea of this amendment. These are not issues that I believe we should be voting on right now without some consideration of what we can do to protect women and show that we're pro-women.

0 (8m 46s):
She said this is something that should be separate because it's an issue that should be considered separately and it really shows how the party has fallen short on how they've treated women. She talked about how they promised to do a lot, but they haven't really gotten much done on things like rape kits and childcare and things like that. Okay, so house republicans are not entirely in agreement on this. What about the house Speaker, Kevin McCarthy, where's he in in all this mess? So Kevin McCarthy has the ability to oversee the floor schedule. So the fact that he allowed these amendments to come to the floor really indicates his implicit support for them. A

2 (9m 23s):
Military cannot defend themselves if you train them in woke.

0 (9m 26s):
And when you look at the actual final vote totals, you have almost all Republicans voting in favor for all of these social issues. So even if you do have some grumbling amongst moderates, you don't have a lot actually ultimately voting against them. You have the party pretty aligned at the end of the day and I think that is probably telling as well. And now it goes from the Republican controlled house to the Democrat controlled Senate. And then can it pass? It can't pass, right? Something will pass. I I do think this is, this is one of those things where I feel like Congress does this all the time where you think there's too much tension. I would say the debt ceiling bill is a good example where they seem so far apart and then suddenly they're not far apart.

0 (10m 9s):
So the, the Senate bill will be very different from the house bill and it will likely not include any of these additional amendments. you know, Chuck Schumer has already said,

14 (10m 18s):
We want both sides to have input, but neither side should derail the bill. We should avoid the chaos we saw last week in the house that greatly hindered their N D A A process.

0 (10m 29s):
But eventually they have to go to what's known as a conference committee, which effectively reconciles the two measures. And in that process, theoretically they come up with something that can pass both chambers. Okay. So it's a compromise at the end of the day. Yeah, I Has the defense bill ever not passed before? It has not. So I think that's the other reason. Maybe people are slightly less panicked. So Congress has had to pass a version of this since 1961 and it has shockingly managed to get it done every year. So this would be a real unprecedented move if it didn't pass this year. I'm very curious whether any US military leaders have said, you know, we actually do need to be worried that we are messing with our ability to be prepared if North Korea comes up over a hill.

0 (11m 14s):
Are military leaders telling Congress at all? Guys stop it. Absolutely. I think we've heard, especially on the abortion provision, which has been brought up over and over again,

15 (11m 24s):
Why is the new DOD policy on abortion critical to military readiness?

16 (11m 31s):
I'm really glad you asked that question. No, I mean I really am one in five members of the US military are women, 20% we're an all volunteer force. Nobody's forcing you to sign up and go, people volunteer to go. And so what happens if you get assigned to a state like Alabama, which has a pretty restrictive abortion law in place and you're concerned about your reproductive care, what do you do? Do you say no and get out? Well some people may decide to do that. And what does that mean? That means we lose talent, important talent and we're again an all volunteer force recruiting as tough enough as it is with a very strong economy out there. We want to keep the people that we get and we want to, we wanna make sure that they can continue to serve.

16 (12m 14s):
So it has, it can have an extremely, extremely significant impact on our recruiting and our retention.

0 (12m 22s):
The importance of the N D A is that it updates policies, it modifies programs, it might set up new programs. So a lot of that is important for the military to adapt over time and that's an important thing that would be lost if you do see like substantial delays to how this bill moves forward.

1 (12m 49s):
That

0 (12m 49s):
Was v's. Lizzo coming up after the break, we need to talk about Kevin.

3 (13m 6s):
I'm so sorry ma'am. I know you need this medicine but it looks like it's not covered by your insurance.

4 (13m 13s):
Yeah, unfortunately I had to deny that one.

5 (13m 16s):
Wait, who are you?

4 (13m 17s):
I'm your insurance company's pharmacy benefit manager. I get paid based on the price of a medicine and I don't make as much money off this one.

5 (13m 25s):
No one should stand between you and your medicine. Visit phrma.org/middleman to learn more paid for by pharma.

3 (13m 35s):
Can you describe what Heman looks like?

17 (13m 40s):
Okay, Heman muscle biking ish. White guy

3 (13m 46s):
Wiley Easton's son loved playing with his he-man toys As a little kid in the eighties,

17 (13m 52s):
I think I said something like, oh you could, you could be a superhero too. And he said, no, I can't be a superhero because I'm not white.

3 (14m 3s):
And that's when Wiley Easton decided to make a black superhero toy for her son and other kids like him.

18 (14m 10s):
I just remember my mom running rushing to me, showing me a little article about a figure that looked like he man, but he was black.

3 (14m 19s):
Here are the story of Sunman and his fans on the latest episode of This Is Love. Listen wherever you get your podcasts,

4 (14m 33s):
What else can we be forgetting?

0 (14m 36s):
Kevin, it's today explained. I'm Noel King John, give me your full name and tell me what you do.

19 (14m 42s):
I'm Jonathan Blitzer. I'm a staff writer with the New Yorker magazine.

0 (14m 45s):
Am I reading right that you sort of specialize in Kevin McCarthy?

19 (14m 50s):
I follow him in so far as anyone following politics right now has to be keyed in to Kevin McCarthy

0 (14m 55s):
Way, way back in January we did an episode about how Kevin McCarthy, in order to become the house Speaker had to make a bunch of promises to Republicans. How has that been unfolding in the last six, seven months?

19 (15m 9s):
Well, in a way, what we're seeing is predictable. I mean basically for McCarthy to secure the speakership, he had to bring on board a number of far right conservatives from a group called the Freedom Caucus.

20 (15m 21s):
Look at this. There's finger pointing going on. Matt Gaetz is pointing at at McCarthy a crowd is gathering around them. McCarthy obviously trying to implore Gates at this point to do something.

19 (15m 33s):
And everyone sort of expected that if he were able to corral those votes, he'd obviously have to win them over by promising various things. And that when he did become Speaker, if everything went to plan, he'd be in this bind almost from day one where he'd have to manage the entire conference, which obviously has a kind of relatively diverse group of members from moderates to far right conservatives, while also catering to this group of far right extremists who are extracting very specific sorts of concessions from him. And

0 (16m 2s):
That's what we're seeing now with the defense bill. Is that right? The House Freedom Caucus has inserted some culture war issues into the defense bill against the wishes of center right Republicans who are like, let's just fund the military and Kevin McCarthy sort of has to go along, has to go along with them.

19 (16m 18s):
Yes. And we saw this with the debt ceiling vote. We will see this again in the fall with various spending bills. This is gonna be the dynamic that is at the center of the Republican conference for as long as this Congress is in power.

0 (16m 31s):
Something I'm curious about. Earlier in the show, Vox Lizzo told us the fact that McCarthy has allowed these amendments to come to the floor to her indicates that he implicitly supports them. And we heard him say, you know, a military cannot defend themselves if you train them in woke. Are these amendments ones that Kevin McCarthy agrees with politically?

19 (16m 52s):
I mean, that's an interesting question and don don't know that we can ever get to the bottom of what he actually believes, which is sort of the main criticism of his exercise of power that he doesn't seem to stand for any ideological issues per se, but rather is mainly interested in keeping the conference together, preserving his role at the top of the conference. And he clearly sees these issues, maybe not as political winners per se, because he is a, I have to say like a quite a savvy follower of local races. He certainly understands that he's got moderate members who are gonna be put in very uncomfortable positions based on these votes that are being forced by the freedom Caucus. But at the same time, his main objective each and every time one of these issues comes up is to get a bill through the house and then once the bill is through the house to kind of deal with the fallout later.

19 (17m 39s):
And so, you know, insofar as his supporting these amendments means getting to the number two 18, which is the majority required to move any of these bills through the house, he's willing to support them.

0 (17m 51s):
Do the lawmakers themselves, the lawmakers like Marjorie Taylor Greene who are pushing for these amendments, do they benefit in in being combative with McCarthy?

19 (17m 60s):
I think so. I mean, listen to how much we're talking about them.

21 (18m 5s):
Marjorie Taylor Greene Mtg,

22 (18m 8s):
Marjorie Taylor Green, Marjorie Taylor Green,

23 (18m 10s):
Marjorie Taylor Green, Marjorie Taylor Green.

19 (18m 15s):
And some of that's just a function of the math, you know, and don don't mean that as a kind of a criticism of the media for following this. The bottom line is these guys are are front and center. You have to kind of reckon with their power and their influence, the members of the Freedom Caucus and certain other Uber conservative members in the house, you know, one of the key things to understand about them, they come from deep red districts where there's really no appetite for them to compromise at all. So you have to think about how they're positioning themselves. They're trying to show their own constituents that they're willing to fight the good fight, that they're not willing to waiver that they're gonna, you know, speak truth to power.

12 (18m 50s):
Today we took down the rule because we're frustrated at the way this place is operating. you know, we took a stand in January to end the era of the Imperial speakership

19 (18m 59s):
In the Republican conference. Speaking truth to power means challenging Republican leadership and showing that you're willing to sort of fight the leadership to the last for the issues that you care about. And so the fact that at the end of the day they may not get what they want politically, you know, in terms of policy, I don't think is a problem for them. The issue for them is to show that they're fighting and for as long as the fight lasts, they're front and center and, and we frankly can't look away.

0 (19m 30s):
Okay, so if the defense bill passes without the amendments, as we hear, it's likely to, it's not necessarily a big loss or an embarrassment for the Republicans who push toward them.

19 (19m 41s):
I think their anger is real when these measures don't make it into final bills. I think we saw that a bit with the debt ceiling fight freedom Caucus members seemed very much to be guiding that process. I mean the bill that emerged from the house to set the stage for the debt ceiling negotiations was written by the Freedom Caucus, which was an astonishing turn of events. And yet McCarthy the, the final deal he negotiated excluded a lot of key priorities that Freedom Caucus members had. The

24 (20m 7s):
Biden McCarthy deal has been dubbed the Fiscal Responsibility Act, but in truth, there's nothing responsible about it. Make no mistake. This is the fiscal irresponsibility Act.

19 (20m 17s):
They were angry and they remain angry. And I think that is kind of just further fuel for the fire of their continued fights.

0 (20m 24s):
So what does that mean for Kevin McCarthy? Does that mean his leadership is still tenuous?

19 (20m 28s):
Yeah, I mean, McCarthy is always on the knife's edge and everyone knew this from the beginning. I mean, the second that the November midterms from 2022 came in and we saw the results and we saw how attenuated the Republican majority was, the

25 (20m 41s):
GOP's divisions are now on full display after Democrats won control of the Senate in a midterm election that didn't produce a predicted red wave.

19 (20m 51s):
McCarthy is really between a rock and a hard place all the time. He is just fighting to stay in his position to keep his conference together. He is not gonna have a stress-free moment in his entire tenure as Speaker.

0 (21m 4s):
And you said the next fight is spending bills. Tell us what's gonna happen there. What do we expect?

19 (21m 10s):
I mean, I think it looks pretty likely that there will be a government shutdown sometime in the fall because the same dynamic we saw with the debt ceiling fight is gonna play out now with one key difference, which was that, you know, Republicans in the Freedom Caucus with the debt ceiling fight definitely pushed the conversation in a more conservative direction. And so leadership did take, as a starting position, some kind of ideas that were shaped by the freedom Caucus. When that final deal was reached and a bill was passed and the President signed it, the Freedom Caucus responded by saying, you know what? We're gonna keep fighting We. were so unhappy with the outcome here. McCarthy made too many concessions.

24 (21m 48s):
This deal fails. Fails completely. And that's why these members and others will be absolutely opposed to the deal. And we will do everything in our power to stop it.

19 (22m 0s):
And so now the Freedom Caucus is pushing for further spending cuts that go beyond those agreed in the debt ceiling negotiations. And so you're gonna see that dynamic play out again. And now that there is a a budget on the line, the inability to pass one is very likely gonna result in the shutdown of the government.

0 (22m 18s):
John, who would benefit from a shutdown.

19 (22m 20s):
Don? Don't think anyone benefits from a shutdown. I think it's a catastrophic outcome. I think though that by the logic of members of the Freedom Caucus, that isn't necessarily defeat and might even be a victory. I mean, from their point of view, they don't believe that a government running in the way that it runs is effective and they want to do anything they can to stop it. And so in a way, if the government shuts down, they get to flex their muscles, they get to demonstrate how central they've become in these legislative processes politically. I mean certainly it hurts the party. I think polling from past years suggests that when one party controls Congress, as the Republicans currently do it, at least in the House, it reflects negatively on them.

19 (23m 2s):
Voters fault them for the general dysfunction. And yet I don't think that that's gonna persuade any members of the Freedom Caucus to change course again because their constituents are happy to see them fighting the good fight.

0 (23m 14s):
Let me ask you lastly about something that we assume will make some news this week. Kevin McCarthy might hold a vote on expunging former President Trump's impeachments from the congressional record. Now he hasn't committed to it, but this is something that Centris Republicans, many of them say they're going to oppose. Why would McCarthy hold that vote?

19 (23m 34s):
This has been a fascinating dynamic from the beginning of the rise of Trump, which was that McCarthy really bet early on Trump and ever since has chained himself to Trump and he has had to lately in a kind of concession to a certain pocket of conservatives. In his conference, a core group of moderates indicated that he didn't necessarily think that Trump was the ideal candidate in 2024. He said that basically as typically as he could, Kenny

2 (23m 59s):
Win that election? Yeah, he can. Do you think he can? The, the question is, is he the strongest to win the election? don don't know that answer,

19 (24m 5s):
But you know, he's scared to stick his neck out saying things definitively when it comes to Trump. He said that Trump and Trump allies heard it. They were incensed and then they went back to McCarthy and tried to turn the screws. And so this, from what I can tell is McCarthy trying to kind of reposition himself and get back in Trump's good graces. He needs Trump for him to keep the conference together. Trump acolytes are crucial to McCarthy's support and to keeping him kind of in this position as Speaker. He's kind of constantly got to come back to Trump and keep Trump on good footing in order for him to stay in his role. And Trump was central in getting some votes to go McCarthy's way during the Speakership race.

19 (24m 49s):
So, you know, he's kind of always in this balancing act.

0 (25m 8s):
Today's show was produced by John Ehrens and Miles Bryant. It was edited by Amina Elsa and fact checked by Serena Solin and Laura Bullard. It was engineered by Patrick Boyd. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.