0 (1s):
Today explained Sean. Usually we do the credits at the end of the show, but today for reasons we're gonna start with them. So, today's show is mixed and mastered by Paul Robert Mosey. It was fact checked by Laura Bullard. Amanda Lou Ellen helped with the recording and the episode was produced by Miles Brian, who happens to be the tallest producer at today, explained Miles. Say hello everyone.

1 (23s):
Hello.

0 (23s):
This is important because today's show's about short people and, and, and short. People believe that tall people have it made in the shade miles. Is it true?

1 (32s):
They're unfortunately, right. I think life is much easier being tall. I, I feel like everything I've wanted or tried to do has been slightly easier because I'm six foot three and not five foot three.

0 (43s):
Today's show is about a bone breaking procedure. Shorter men in America are going through to be just a few inches taller. And how Covid 19 made it much easier to get the procedure that's coming up on today. Explained

Samsung (60s):
Support for today's show comes from Samsung. If you are not quiet quitting, but instead looking to supercharge your productivity. Here's the thing to know. Samsung's new Galaxy Z fold four offers a world of possibilities with an expansive foldable screen. It's more than just a phone. Z fold four is a full on multitasking powerhouse that lets you do more than ever right from the palm of your hand, the large, and I'm told immersive screen folds out so you can watch your favorite content while using your phone to take notes or to take a selfie, All of it hands free. You may visit samsung.com to learn more about the Galaxy Z fold four.

Hulu (1m 40s):
The case of a missing. Indigenous Alaska women sparks new questions about other missing and murdered indigenous women. But when the cops stop looking, a team of local journalists step in to bring the truth to light, that's where ABC's thrilling new drama Alaska Daily begins. And where it's headed will have you on the edge of your seat. Starring two time Oscar winner, Hillary Swank, Grace Dove and scandals. Jeff Perry Alaska Daily premieres Thursday, October 6th on ABC and Stream. Next day on Hulu.

5 (2m 23s):
My name is Chris, Guy Molly, and I'm an articles editor at gq. Chris,

0 (2m 27s):
You wrote an article recently that kind of stopped or broke the internet, I can't tell. Which, tell me, what was it about, What did you wanna tell the world with this piece of writing?

5 (2m 37s):
Yeah, so I've long been fascinated with this procedure called cosmetic leg lengthening. Basically it's this super gnarly surgery you can get done where they break your legs and it results in you gaining anywhere from three to six inches of height.

0 (2m 52s):
And I'm guessing a lot of people in our audience just heard that this was a possibility for the first time you break your legs to gain a few inches of height.

5 (3m 2s):
Yeah, that's, that's correct. It's like, it's like the most gruesome sounding plastic surgery I've ever heard of. I first stumbled upon it like, you know, 15 years ago, cause I'm a short non king myself, and Googled how to be taller as an adult and stumbled upon it. So this procedure has been around for a long time, but actually in the last five years or so is they've made huge technological advances in it where you can get it done very discreetly. And, you know, you could basically lie to everyone in your life that I fell down and broke my hip in the bathtub and they would be none the wiser that you actually got it done.

0 (3m 39s):
Is there some sort of procedure where you break your hip and then get two to three inches taller or something?

5 (3m 43s):
You know what's, what's really interesting about it is one of the responses I saw to this article was that people were like, I would totally notice if you came back three inches taller. But I don't know. That's true. You know, like some, sometimes it's like one of your close friends gets a haircut and you can't really tell, you're like, something's different about you. I'm not sure what it is, but something's different from you. And it's like, oh, they got bangs. Like we think we're more perceptive than we are. And you know what's interesting about a lot of the mostly guys who are getting this procedure done is they're not telling anyone that they're actually getting it. So they're just showing up, coming out of the work from home Covid era now suddenly three inches taller, which is wild.

0 (4m 24s):
Hmm. Who's getting this surgery?

5 (4m 26s):
There are now hundreds of guys in the US alone and who are getting it done every year. One thing that's important to note is the, the procedure is ridiculously expensive. It's an elective surgery, so you're not gonna be covered by insurance. And the base model, which basically entails getting your femur broken costs $75,000 alone.

0 (4m 47s):
And so, which guys out there can afford that?

5 (4m 52s):
So all sorts of guys, a lot of tech workers, people from Google, Facebook, Microsoft, PayPal, you name it. Like, you know, it's, it seems to be spreading a little virally throughout the tech community right now. Hmm. A lot of CEOs, often shorter men who are looking for a little bit of stature, A lot of trans men who wanna feel more like themselves. Some actors, there's a news anchorman basketball players are actually getting it to, whoa, you kind of lose the fast twitch muscles that are required to actually play sports. Like maybe you're gonna be a little bit taller or something, but, you know, have those Kevin Durant legs all of a sudden. But it doesn't necessarily give you the skills or the explosiveness that you, you sort of need to succeed.

5 (5m 33s):
So it's really risky if you're an athlete looking to get it done.

0 (5m 36s):
It sounds like a modern convention, but how long has this kind of procedure been around? Tell me where this comes

5 (5m 43s):
From. You know, like all cosmetic procedures, it sort of started off as a, a way to solve real problems. Like say, you know, you had a deformity or you know, your left foot was shorter than your right foot or something like that. And you know, like boob jobs and Botox and all that kind of stuff, it's sort of found its way to people who just wanna look like a hotter version of themselves. Hmm. I guess that's inevitable with any of these sort of elective surgeries and it's more gruesome than all the other ones, but I kind of suspect that it's gonna be normalized within the next five to 10 years.

0 (6m 17s):
Tell us about the procedure. I, I believe you witnessed a procedure.

5 (6m 27s):
I met up with Dr. Kevin Debbie Farhad, who's at the Limb Plastics Institute in Las Vegas. So

7 (6m 32s):
I'm Dr. Kevin, Debbie Parsha. I'm an orthopedic surgeon with fellowship training in limb deformity and limb length thing surgery.

5 (6m 38s):
He let me into his operating room, which was hilarious because there's this patient who's passed out, his junk is taped off and he's in the middle of the room and they're blasting music. And I kid you not like it was ushers my way that was playing right when I entered and I was like, Dude, are we at the club or are we in a surgery room right now? Like it was, it was kind of like that,

7 (6m 59s):
You know, we need, you know, a little bit of background. We don't like complete silence and that kind of stuff. A lot of surgeons listen to some music to kind of keep themselves entertained as they kind of do the same procedure they do every single day, every day of their life.

5 (7m 11s):
The surgery basically goes like this, so the patient is out for the whole thing and the doctor starts a break in the femur by making a couple of incisions in your leg using a device called the Reamer, which is basically this handheld drill that has like a two foot long drill bit in it and he inserts them to leg to start the break and starts drilling a hole down the center of the bone so he can insert the nail inside. And when he pulled the reamer out, like a kid, you not, it was like Jack Nicholson taking out his comically long pistol from when he was playing the Joker in the first Batman movie.

8 (7m 45s):
Come on, you lose some son of a bitch, come to me.

5 (7m 50s):
I was just like, this defies the laws of physics. Like that went to another dimension. I don't know what you were drilling, but it somehow fit in there. Oh man. Then he inserts the nail into the leg using a guidewire and some x-rays and like, you know, there's people chattering all around him and they, they sort of move with the mechanical efficiency of an F1 pit crew. Like, it's so orchestrated, so, Hmm. Perfect. And really, you know, well done. Funniest part of the surgery is once the nail is inserted and screws are inserted in place, he has to break the leg entirely. So he inserts something called the osteotome, which is basically this razor sharp chisel into the leg and starts hammering. And Dr. D is like talking to me casually the whole time.

5 (8m 30s):
Like he's hanging a picture frame. He's like, sometimes it takes one break to do this, other times it takes 10 and he is just hammering the leg. And I was like, Bro, I think you should be looking, you don't, you don't wanna be throwing no look passes while you're doing surgery right now, but he's the best in the world at this thing. He could probably do this in his sleep. And he completed the whole right leg alone in under 38 minutes, which I thought was insane.

0 (8m 54s):
Okay. And, and, and left leg 38 minutes too.

5 (8m 58s):
Yeah, they kicked me out for that. Something in the covid protocols. They didn't allow for 39 minutes or something, I, I guess, but yeah, I, I watched one leg and I, I feel like I got the picture from there. Were

0 (9m 8s):
You around when the victim regained consciousness?

5 (9m 13s):
The patient now he woke up, he looked like a mannequin, like stuck in the back of a garbage truck the whole time. So I was like, this isn't a real person. Like they, they stage this like the moon landing or something for me, but no, I wasn't around for that. Woke up two hours later, I'm told very athletic person, athletic build and you know, they, they wake up in a haze and it's when they wake up that the real work can sort of begin because it's several months of pt your muscles. Like I kind of compare it to the skin on a drum. Like your bones are lengthening by a ator a day, but your muscles, your nerves, your skin are all elongating and being stretched out sort of like the skin on a drum that's incredibly painful.

5 (9m 60s):
You have to do a lot of stretching, a lot of massage work and a lot of, you know, it's a lot of discipline on the patient's part to make sure they recover properly from it.

7 (10m 8s):
I don't find the procedure necessarily dangerous. I mean it's still a surgical proceeding. I mean there's some risks to be taken with that, but overall I think the procedure can be done, you know, from start to finish fairly simply and with good outcome and good results.

0 (10m 23s):
Let's talk about pain, Chris. Everything you just described sounds extremely painful.

5 (10m 29s):
Yeah, I talked to a lot of guys who got it done. One of them was like, it's like the worst migraine you've ever had, but on your leg and it's 24 hours a day and doesn't go away like you're trying to sleep, you're in bed, There's nothing you can do that'll make it feel better. So it's just sort of ambient and relentless and, and always there.

0 (10m 50s):
I mean this is gruesome stuff for a lot of people. Probably unimaginable to, to voluntarily put yourself through this. Not to mention to pay something like 75 to a hundred k to do it. Did you get into the psychology of why people wanna do this so badly?

5 (11m 9s):
I understand the psychology of going from, from five five to like, to like five eight. Like at five five you're sort of, you know, people look at that and say, Oh, that, that guy's short. But when you're five eight, you're a little bit closer to the average. And psychologically that's just such a powerful thing. I think for a lot of the people who get it done. It's more of a confidence thing than anything.

9 (11m 35s):
My name is Rich Rotella. I'm in my thirties. I've been building an acting career in Los Angeles, California for over 10 years. And I had bilateral femur lengthening, which means I voluntarily broke my legs to become three inches taller. And it worked. I was born perfectly healthy, but for whatever reason, as soon as middle school hit, I pretty much plateaued, you know, around five, five basically been five, five or most of my adult life. And pretty much for the last 20 years I've always wanted to grow taller. This is something I really want to help people understand.

9 (12m 15s):
There is a reason that most people, they look at something like, you know, and I'm doing this with a very, very delicate and gentle tone if you will, but something like discrimination with racism is very, very obvious. You know, and it's awful but it exists. But there's also something called height discrimination. If you ask any guy who's 5 7 5 6 5 5 or shorter, what it's been like, he'll tell you he's dealt with career challenges. He's dealt with dating challenges, he's dealt with some self-esteem or confidence challenges. You know, I have the ability to be a leading man, but I've battled with casting about this for now over a decade because they see me as a character actor.

9 (12m 57s):
Cause I'm shorter. I've stood up in my home here in Los Angeles and I've literally just looked at the kitchen and I'm standing there and I'm like, it just looks completely different. Everything looks smaller and further away and down, if you will. And so it kind of gives me this, this confident boost. And then when I'm in the gym and I'm using like a stationary bike so I can actually sit and do stationary biking, I can see my legs in the mirror and it just feels good that I know I did something about it. I think that's probably the most frustrating thing. You know, people can get rhinoplasty, you know, they get a nose job or they get breast implants or breast reductions or they, you know, they, they get the tattoo.

9 (13m 39s):
Why? Because they wanted to. So I wanted to grow taller and I finally found a way to make it happen.

0 (13m 50s):
That was Rich Rotella. You can decide for yourself how much leading man potential he has over at his YouTube channel. It's Rich Rotella, r o t e l l a. He's on Instagram at Rich Rotella official. Chris Gaia, Molly from GQ told us he thinks his procedure will be normalized in five to 10 years. I asked him how he's so sure.

5 (14m 11s):
Apparently they are working on a new kind of nail made of a stronger metal, which will allow patients to be mobile right after the surgery. So basically you could get the implant inserted and be walking like not long afterward. And if it gets approved 2023, I think that's what they're sort of aiming for with this technology. I think you're gonna see this become a lot more commonplace. You're gonna have friends in your circle and maybe in like five, 10 years who are suddenly three inches taller than what kind of ethical questions does that raise for the, the rest of us who are stuck being five six? You know, I wish

11 (14m 47s):
I was a little bit taller. I wish I was a baller. I wish I had a girl looked good. I would call her wish I had a and a hat with a wish I was like six nine so I could get with Leo's Knowwhere.

1 (15m 8s):
I'm Miles Bryan, a producer and reporter with today explained, and I wanna talk about an episode I made about magic mushrooms. There is a fascinating debate happening right now about whether taking a low dose of mushrooms consistently can increase productivity, can help treat anxiety and depression. Now because we are a show of rigorous journalism, I book the science journalist with a PhD in drugs for the episode. But because we are today explained, I also reached out to my buddy who I knew was big into microdosing and asked him to record himself on a day he did it. That friend ended up recording himself microdosing, as well as recording dispatches throughout his workday, which I then peppered into the episode.

1 (15m 49s):
The result I think was informative, fascinating, and just a little bit trippy. If you dig stuff like this, please consider supporting box. You can make a gift today by visiting box.com/gift.

3 (16m 4s):
Hey there, if you're open to listening to a podcast that is not today explained, here's one recommendation. Revisionist history is Malcolm Gladwell's show about the misunderstood and the overlooked. And it's back for a new season that is fully devoted to experiments, natural experiments, scientific experiments, thought experiments. Malcolm's obsessions take you everywhere from a forgotten laboratory at the University of Minnesota to the set of the original A Star is Born. Why a season all about experiments? Because Malcolm says the list of things we don't know is longer than the list of things we do know. There's some Malcolm wisdom for you. You can listen to revisionist history wherever you listen to today, explained

12 (16m 48s):
This is still a matter of the height.

13 (16m 51s):
Boy, that's tall. Are you? Four foot six? How's tall? Were you before the accident?

12 (16m 55s):
Unfortunately, his profile says he's six

13 (16m 57s):
One. Is that why I can wear lifts

12 (17m 2s):
Even with lifts? You're not that tall.

13 (17m 8s):
No, no, we never discussed that. Oh, I thought you were serious, Vincent. I am serious. I'm not doing that. I won't do that.

0 (17m 25s):
We're back today. Explained here with Chris guy Molly, gq. Chris, at the top of this show, you suggested you had some personal experience with this story. That's what led you to writing about this.

5 (17m 35s):
Yeah, yeah. You know, like a lot of other short guys when I was in my mid twenties, I, I googled how to be taller as an adult, sort of led me down this dark path where I first discovered limb lengthening.

0 (17m 47s):
Can we talk about what led you to, to perform that particular Google search?

5 (17m 52s):
In the piece? I sort of described the feeling of being short as a slow onset neurosis. Like you sort of don't ever like suddenly realize you're short. You kind of just like hold onto hope that your growth spurt is gonna hit one day when you're in high school as all your friends got taller, maybe you get cut from your basketball team, maybe a, a taller love interest doesn't work out because of your shortness or something like that. And, you know, I've sort of feel like I've experienced a lot of that stuff in my own personal life and know what it's like to be short. Like there was this brief period where, you know, I was on the dating sites, not even the dating apps, like not Tinder or anything like that. This is like many, many, many years ago where when I listed my actual height at five six just got zero responses.

5 (18m 39s):
It was like crickets in there. And then I started lying a little bit and got up to five eight and sparked up some conversations and, you know, it, it just really hit me in a very, not even powerful, just, it, it, it just loves like, man hide really does matter out there whether we want to believe it or not. It was a weird reality. And you know, my wife actually, she's taller than me. She's five nine and I'm five six. And you know, it was something in our relationship that kind of always bothered me very early on in our relationship before we ever got together. We were old friends and I was like, you know what? If I was taller than you, we'd probably be together already. Like I said it like quasi drunkenly as a joke.

5 (19m 20s):
Hmm. I've felt bad about it for well over a decade now. And in the piece, her and I sort of had a, a very honest conversation about that, about what allowed her to get over me not being taller than her.

0 (19m 33s):
And, and you're at home right now? Is your, is your wife around?

5 (19m 36s):
Yeah. Yeah. You want me to get her

0 (19m 38s):
Okay, if she's around. Yeah.

5 (19m 40s):
One

0 (19m 41s):
Sec. Let me, Is she busy?

5 (19m 42s):
She's holding our baby right now, but I could totally go get her. It'll take a sec.

0 (19m 46s):
Okay. Amazing.

15 (19m 52s):
Hey Sean, I'm Judy.

0 (19m 54s):
Judy, you married Chris. Thank you for joining us. Is Chris still around too? I think we need both of you. Yeah,

15 (20m 1s):
He's right outside the door.

0 (20m 3s):
Okay. Tell him he could come closer. Chris.

15 (20m 7s):
Yeah. Chris, come in.

5 (20m 17s):
Arden's the hype man. He's waving a towel right now.

0 (20m 21s):
Oh no. All right. We got Chris and Judy on the ones and twos. We got Arden in the background. He's hype man. Thank you for joining us, Judy. Chris was just explaining to us that he himself has been guilty of Googling. I wish I was a little bit taller, but how conscious of this were you when you met Chris?

15 (20m 52s):
I didn't know. You know, Chris has always had a pretty big personality and I remember even talking to friends in college, we all ran in similar circles about how like, did you even know Chris was five six? You know, he seems he's, he's, he's got a presence, you know, I remember going into restaurants and being like, Oh, where's my friends? And then I'd hear Chris laugh and he'd be like, There they are. And I'd go find them. Aww. So it, yeah, his stature is, was secondary to his outsize personality. So

5 (21m 24s):
You're saying spiritually I'm, I'm six

15 (21m 26s):
Four. Sure babe.

5 (21m 28s):
Sick.

15 (21m 30s):
That's what I'm saying.

0 (21m 32s):
When exactly did you discover that this guy in your friend group was, was into you?

15 (21m 37s):
You know, he moved to New York from LA and then I followed tears later and completely different pursuits. We, we had to kind of become default closer friends because we knew fewer people here and you know, it kind of like took off organically from there. I think it was mutual, probably Chris a little more than me, than me to Chris. But we all caught up with each other eventually. Yeah.

5 (22m 3s):
Yeah. I couldn't even look her in an eye. She was too, she was too hot. It was too much.

0 (22m 8s):
And, and then one day, as he writes about in his article, he kind of blurts out this drunken confession to you. Do you remember that, that moment that day?

15 (22m 19s):
I do. And I remember differently slightly.

0 (22m 22s):
Oh, interesting. He

15 (22m 23s):
Was asking me to be his girlfriend and I said, No, I don't think that's a good idea for a myriad re you know, like many, many reasons, including, notably that we had so many friends in common, it could get really complicated really fast if we're not careful. And I just didn't really feel like it was worth it. And that's when Chris said, Oh come on, if I were taller than you, we'd already be dating. And as much of a dick as it makes him feel like I actually felt kind of like a dick to, I mean, I don't think it was totally invalid for him to say that. I might have been quicker to give it a shot. Huh, Perhaps.

0 (23m 1s):
So to be fair to both of you in that moment you thought, wait, no, my concerns are about our friend group and our history, but also you're right, if you were six two, we'd probably be married by now

15 (23m 16s):
No more. Like I would've maybe given it a shot, like I was maybe 80% hesitant. Maybe I'd be like 50% hesitant, you know?

0 (23m 25s):
Yeah, yeah.

15 (23m 26s):
Still hesitant. Just

0 (23m 30s):
Less. But, but it worked like you took him up. Did did that feel like a challenge to you in that moment?

15 (23m 36s):
Yeah, I thought about it and I still do from time to time, just, just less and less every day. It's, it's become really unimportant to me. It took some work to be honest because I mean like, think about all the dumb ass tropes you've seen in your lifetime with some like larger woman and some little guy and like, it's something to laugh and point at and you know, like it, it was something that I think requires a bit of work and, but I'm, I'm good now. So you

5 (24m 7s):
Had to reprogram yourself is

15 (24m 8s):
What you're saying? A little bit of repro. So

5 (24m 10s):
You did some work for me is what you're saying?

15 (24m 12s):
Yes, babe. I did for love And, and yeah, I mean like look, I think we all know that it's a superficial thing. I think we should all recognize that like this is a looks issue, not a personality issue. And it's, it, I mean like we were, we've received a lot of messaging over many years about like what constitutes a normal looking couple, what's feminine, what's masculine, et cetera, cetera. And I think we're defining that to an extent. And like, you know, part of me was also like, okay, hypothetically what am I supposed to do with a taller man?

15 (24m 54s):
Am I like, are we like slow dancing in the living room? No. Are we like doing prom poses in line for John? We're

5 (25m 1s):
Riding rollercoaster that we're tall enough to ride as if you're a taller man, you know?

15 (25m 5s):
Yes, that too. But I mean like, these are like what? Like it doesn't serve me, I don't know, like hypothetically what a taller man in my life would do that you don't do. And also what's the trade off Chris? Like if you were taller, could you be a dick? Yes. Maybe. Right? Like, I don't know, like maybe this, the package is you, how you are and that, that's just really who who I'm in love with. Oh

5 (25m 35s):
Thanks dog.

15 (25m 37s):
You're welcome man. Love you.

16 (25m 45s):
Senior was trouble right from Star took me so many lessons I not to mess with broken heart. So many questions when this began, we, what's the perfect match for perhaps we had some problems but we were at, and now the arguments are getting loud. I wanna stay but I can't help him walk outta the store to wait. Just take my hand and understand. If you could see, I never plan to be a man that just wasn't me. But now searching for commitment and other I don't attitude cause.