1 (1s):
Welcome back to the show after a holiday weekend. It's now December. I'm told kiwi Co makes things that you could get people in the month of December their projects that help your kids or even adults learn about science math art engineering technology. Kiko is offering you the chance to get your first month for free to redeem the offer go to Kiwi co.com explained.

3 (36s):
So imagine that you're a foreign student perhaps from India and you're looking for a program in the US that's focused on business or stem also known as science technology engineering and math and you come across an ad for University in Michigan called the University of Farmington. The brochure looks great. It says it's located in the heart of the automotive and advanced manufacturing center of Southeast Michigan the University of Farmington provides students from throughout the world a unique. Educational experience our Dynamic business administration and stem curriculum allows its students to rapidly apply their knowledge preparing them to succeed in an Ever globalizing economy.

3 (1m 16s):
The school is accredited which means that it's a legitimate program that would qualify you for an F-1 student visa that allows you to study and remain in the u.s. You apply for your Visa. That's great and you'll pay cost the university maybe 2,500 per quarter for graduate programs plus and adapt. Courage thousand dollars a month in fees you're ready to go. But then one day you get a knock on your door, it's us Immigration and Customs Enforcement ice. And you find out that the whole thing is fake. The university doesn't actually exist. It has no curriculum no classes. It's all just been a scheme to weed out fraud and now you might be deported

1 (1m 59s):
Nicole Nuria you cover immigration at vaux what exactly went down at the imaginary University of Farmington in

3 (2m 8s):
Detroit. So we've known about this scheme since last January when a series of indictments came out, but the Detroit Free Press reported last week that there were over a hundred new arrests of Students in connection with the scheme so that brought the total up to about 250 students who have been arrested. Now the University was listed on the Department of Homeland Security website as an approved accredited school making it apparently legit but it was actually undercover ice agents who advertised the university on a now defunct website and their objective was to weed out students who might be trying to obtain student visas fraudulently and to do so they They worked with recruiters who were basically paid to attract over 600 students to the school and all these students transferred from previously accredited schools.

3 (2m 57s):
So they were in legitimate programs prior to arriving at the University of Farmington.

1 (3m 1s):
So that means that these students were here on legitimate visas. Everything was above

3 (3m 6s):
board. Yes up until the point that they arrived at the University of Farmington

1 (3m 11s):
who's getting caught up in this game.

3 (3m 13s):
So it was primarily students from India studying at The Graduate level. You were coming on F-1 student visas and they were coming from accredited universities previously in the u.s.

1 (3m 26s):
Do we know if all these students thought this was a real

3 (3m 28s):
school some of the students thought that this was a legitimate program or at least that's what their attorneys are saying right now. So they say that they've been duped by the Department of Homeland Security. Of Career College. It's easy to see how an outsider could mistake the fake University for a real one. It was listed on the Department of Homeland Security

1 (3m 51s):
website. Okay, so some students may not have known that this was a fake school, but others may have been into that idea. So

3 (3m 57s):
there's no way to tell how many fraudulent actors were actually a part of this scheme some students might have seen this as a pay to play scheme where they were essentially paying the tuition fees and the other fees that are associated with enrolling in the University. In order to obtain a student visa that would allow them to go in and out of the country. Freely as they pleased.

1 (4m 17s):
Is that like a popular scheme

3 (4m 19s):
according to the Department of Homeland Security it is but we don't have really hard numbers on how many students are abusing the system. But

1 (4m 27s):
this is a thing that happens. It's students will sign up for classes at a school. That won't actually make them come to

3 (4m 31s):
class. Yes. That's what happens.

1 (4m 33s):
How exactly did this whole thing work what along the way where the signs that some students may have picked up on and others didn't

3 (4m 42s):
And the university didn't have any physical classrooms. No teachers no curriculum no classes. So ice argues that it should have been obvious to the students that they weren't actually enrolled in a university that would have allowed them to maintain legally their student visas, but some of them even made attempts to verify that this was a legitimate program and the administrators told them that it was so in that sense if you're being told that this is an accredited University. The administrators are telling you that then they have no reason to think that it shouldn't have been

1 (5m 18s):
legitimate, but to be clear here students were signing up for University that didn't have classes

3 (5m 26s):
presumably, yes, but maybe perhaps foreign students aren't totally clear on how American universities work how these programs should be administered. Maybe they thought they would be eventually allowed to sign up for online classes. It's unclear exactly how Oh, they thought that this could have been a legitimate University people who worked in the building's they students constantly asked how to talk to someone about classes. They paid

1 (5m 50s):
for I feel sad for them because I know some of them didn't even know. So what's going to happen to the people who were sort of caught up in this game.

3 (5m 58s):
So at this point a lot of them have been given the opportunity to leave the country voluntarily all of their student visas have been revoked in connection to the scheme, even if people realize amid the scheme that they were being duped. Might have transferred out of the University, but those people have still been arrested by ice. So the ultimate effect of this could just be that they'll have to leave the country. They may be out several thousand dollars in tuition that they made a paid the University of Farmington. It's now in the Department of Homeland Security's coffers. We don't know what's happening with that money. And any chance that they might have it coming back to the u.s. Might be stymied at this point because this deportation or voluntary Parcher is they call it which doesn't involve do necessarily being escorted on a Plane by Ice agents, but does involve you leaving the country would basically Prejudice any further attempt.

3 (6m 52s):
They would make to re-enter the u.s.

1 (6m 55s):
Does ice do a lot of policing of people who are here on student visas. Is this like a large batch of their focus because these aren't the stories. We typically hear about ice going after undocumented

3 (7m 7s):
immigrants and these students aren't undocumented technically because they have Visas, right? So in recent years about 500,000 students have been Landing these visas. Annually. It's not a huge batch of illegal immigrants that are coming here annually and it hasn't historically been a population that ice is deciding to go after particularly because these people are here temporarily just to go to school but the Trump Administration for whatever reason is decided to make this an enforcement priority for them. So they've been trying to crack down on people who might be using the system fraudulently. But in this game, there's really no way of telling who was a fraudulent actor and who was just sort of an innocent bystander.

1 (7m 49s):
So ice here has set up an entire fake University named it the University of Farmington got it accreditation through the Department of Homeland Security. Let students enroll. Let students pay even and is now at least in some cases deporting students for not figuring out that this was a fake situation. That's the whole

3 (8m 12s):
Come here. That's how it looks. Yeah,

1 (8m 16s):
is this the first time ice has tried something like this made a whole fake

3 (8m 20s):
school? So it's actually not the first time and it's certainly not the first Administration to carry out these kinds of policies under Obama a similar scheme was set up in 2013 a university called the University of Northern New Jersey and is part of that scheme which was set up by Ice the Visas of over a thousand students were revoked and there were also Giants of 21 other middlemen who are involved. So we've seen schemes like this before but with increased attention on ice and movements like abolish ice which has been Amplified by people like Elizabeth Warren and Alexandra Ocasio Cortez. It's been causing a lot more outrage these kinds of extraordinary enforcement practices on the part of ice which are also part of a larger scheme to Corner immigrants and some policies that have been carried out under the Administration have really further that

1 (9m 14s):
goal more after the break. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today. Explain. Michael from Toronto we've had you on the show a few times. I'm talking about your kiwi close subscription that you got from your daughter Jillian. Yeah who went to Kiwi co.com / explained where you can try key we go out for your first month for free. Your first crate was a pinball machine. What was your second crate?

1 (9m 54s):
Second one was a coin sorting machine nice a booklet that comes with it. There's a little more history into coins and structures and how the machine actually works. This is one that has a It's battery run. So it's got a little motor that comes with it. And when it's all together, it uses a different type of logic equals into a whole description of conditional logic. That's how it's based and how that ties into the digital age. We are now in so it's pretty pretty quite impressive. Yeah and maybe more practical for you than your grandkids this time because you have adult money. Yeah. I can use it to sort coins not just them but no I just I stand I was looking at the book right now on the coin sorting machine and I don't see any reference to age at all.

1 (10m 44s):
Just a Timeless Timeless little construction Michael. I think you should work for kiwi go. Do you want to come out of retirement to go work for them? You could be their Ambassador. I'm not looking for work, but certainly these kinds of things to occupy the a bit of time and play with the grandkids is really great. Nicole I think we hear a lot about ice arresting immigrants undocumented immigrants, but less about these sort of unorthodox tactics, what are the other ways ice is sort of cornering people and even deporting them

3 (11m 23s):
historically ice hasn't been allowed to enter places that are deemed sensitive locations and that includes places like schools churches courthouses, but there have been some changes in policy where we're seeing ice agents show up at places like courthouses or at us. Up and over and Immigration Services where people are going for interviews to gain lawful status.

1 (11m 47s):
So you're saying that someone might be in the process of becoming a documented immigrant at a USCIS office and Ice might show up what while they're standing in line somewhere and

3 (11m 58s):
arrest them. Yeah, they could be face-to-face with a USCIS officer and be arrested in that circumstance. So for example people that I've come across usually been unauthorized immigrants. Who may be married to a u.s. Citizen and can apply for a green card which would allow them to stay in the u.s. Permanently. But in those situations they've showed up to their interviews for their green cards that USCIS and have been arrested by

1 (12m 24s):
ice and ultimately deported in some

3 (12m 26s):
cases in some cases. Yes,

1 (12m 28s):
what are the effects of arresting people who are trying to do this the legit way

3 (12m 34s):
you don't want to create a distrust in law enforcement and a lot of experts that I've talked to you say that the Practice of showing up at courthouses and arresting people other appointments with USCIS will Foster that kind of distrust you want people to show up when they are trying to make themselves legal

1 (12m 53s):
immigrants. The Farmington thing happened in Michigan. There was this New Jersey case that was similar from a few years ago where these USCIS things happening is that all across the country or one specific City or what?

3 (13m 6s):
Yeah, it's happening all across the country. I think there might be some differentiations. In terms of how individual offices try to tackle this issue, but for the most part it seems to be allowed

1 (13m 16s):
Nationwide. Is there a place where you're more at risk of becoming sort of duped by ice or are people for example in so-called Sanctuary Cities Safe from this kind of

3 (13m 26s):
stuff Sanctuary cities try to limit the local communities contact with ice and in some cases they've been successful in doing that. But the problem is is if ice wants to carry out an enforcement sweep where they're trying to read out undocumented. Sore show up at court houses. There's a limit to how much the state can do to kind of prevent those situations. For example an Oakland. There was an enforcement sweep that the Oakland mayor had been alerted to and she consequently told everyone in the community about it so that they could make sure to make the necessary preparation but due to the reliability of my sources and the fact that I received this from multiple sources.

3 (14m 6s):
I felt that it was my duty to share the information we will in you to dispel the ugly myth that many are perpetuating about our immigrant community. So there are these cases of states and municipalities trying to really combat these kinds of extraordinary enforcement actions. And in fact some states have really tried to pass laws that would enshrine that kind of protection in law. So in California, for example, we've seen over the last year or so. Then implementing a few Sanctuary state laws that would have prevented ice Agents from accessing for example, the private areas of a business that would make it more difficult for them to arrest people in those places, but there's a limit to how much states can do

1 (14m 57s):
and is the Trump Administration pushing back on that log California passed.

3 (15m 0s):
Yes. So the Trump Administration has filed a lawsuit challenging those series of laws, but so far has been pretty much unsuccessful.

1 (15m 10s):
I imagine some people hear about these situations with the University of Farmington and say someone showing up to present their case set up USCIS office or at a hearing and being arrested and think that sounds like entrapment that sounds like they were tricked what legally counts as entrapment are these approaches legal?

3 (15m 32s):
So we would I think have to wait for the outcome of any particular lawsuits that might be filed by students who have been implicated. It in the scheme to really understand whether this is legal or not. But the legal definition of entrapment is basically the government has to induce someone to commit a crime when they weren't previously disposed to commit a crime and the students are arguing that that's exactly what's happened to them here.

1 (15m 57s):
What about in the case of say showing up to present your case at a USCIS office and then being arrested could that be deemed entrapment or some sort of

3 (16m 6s):
trick the ACLU which has been arguing? A case and connection to those arrests that USA is offices has classified this as a form of entrapment but it's not immediately clear how legally that will play

1 (16m 21s):
out but these cases have not been

3 (16m 22s):
decided know they have it.

1 (16m 24s):
So you mentioned that both this Farmington situation in Michigan and people showing up at USCIS who are trying to attain documentation. They're both examples of I sort of policing legal immigration. Do we have any idea how those approaches and schemes if

3 (16m 40s):
Well are affecting legal immigration. Yeah, this is part of a larger concerted effort to clamp down on illegal immigration and we don't have really hard numbers on the USCIS arrests, but we do know that over the last two years we've seen a consistent decline in the number of foreign students who are choosing to enroll in US universities. So I think we can draw some pretty direct parallels there between policies like Like creating these fake universities and also other sort of roadblocks on student visas and the decline in the number of foreign students.

1 (17m 19s):
So if the Trump administration's goal here is to deter legal immigration. It's working.

3 (17m 29s):
We're seeing some sort of systemic roadblocks to Legal immigration here and all of these enforcement actions are parts of that and that's largely informed by the policies of Stephen Miller and some right-wing restriction assimilation groups who have been lobbying for these kinds of systemic roadblocks for a long time. So this is really a realization of what they've been calling for for years.

1 (18m 18s):
Thanks for listening to this show today. Thanks to chirico for supporting the show today. Thanks to Michael for his love of coin sorting and his kiwi Coke rates and his grandchildren and his daughter Jillian. Kiwi Co is offering you the chance to get your first month of Kimiko for free to redeem that offer go to Kiwi co.com / explained.