3 (1s):
This program is brought to you by twilio a customer engagement platform trusted by millions of developers enabling you to reinvent how you connect with your customers. Whatever your use case twilio has your back. It's time to build visit

1 (14s):
twilio.com. Your website is pretty but is it smart? If it can't answer the most basic questions about your business when people search then maybe it's not the ex answers can help you X answers upgrades your website with a powerful search engine. So your customers get an official answer to every question when they search for information and that means you can drive more transactions while also reducing your support costs the best part it's free to try just go to yext.com and learn more about how you Answers can be the brains behind your business.

1 (56s):
It's a explained. I'm Sean Rama's from and on the show. Today. We're going to talk about allegations that hysterectomies have been forced on women being detained by us immigrations and Customs Enforcement. Perhaps better known as ice. It's a tough story and parts of this episode will be tough to hear. So please consider this a warning. Nicole Nuria is vaux's immigration reporter. She's been covering this story since it broke earlier this week.

3 (1m 25s):
So on Monday September 14th a nurse employed at the Irwin County Detention Center in Wasilla, Georgia filed a whistleblower complaint with the Department of Homeland Security. We are following breaking news today. It's about an alarming new whistleblower complaint that alleged and the bulk of that complaint accused the Detention Center, which is operated by a private prison contractor will solve Corrections. Accuse them of a Litany of health and safety violations how the Irwin County Detention Center

1 (1m 54s):
in rural South Georgia does not follow CDC guidelines regarding covid-19 that it's not keeping employees and staff saves as the lack of personal protective equipment lack of hygiene.

3 (2m 6s):
But buried in the complaint on page 18 was a pretty explosive claim that female detainees had been subjected to an alarmingly high number of hysterectomies while in custody the detainees were were allegedly sent to a gynecologist outside of the facility who performed the hysterectomies often without them fully understanding why they were getting the procedure done. He's even taken out the wrong ovary on one detained immigrant woman. She was supposed to get her left ovary removed because it had a cyst on the left ovary. He took out the white one. She was upset. She had to go back to take out the left and she wound up with a total hysterectomy. She still wanted children one woman was told that she had a sickroom and or heavy bleeding and even though she had never If those things before or been told by a doctor that she had at the groom so the allegations that they were making were quite troubling

1 (2m 57s):
one lady walked up to me here this last time around between October of nineteen until July the 2nd. And she said what is he is he the uterus collector? Does he collect uteruses and I asked her what does she mean and she says everybody that I talked to has had a history. Correct me and you just don't know what to say. So does the this whistleblower complaint State who this gynecologist is

3 (3m 31s):
a complaint itself doesn't identify the doctor but prism which is a social justice focused news organization reported that the procedures were allegedly performed by Mahendra. I mean a gynecologist associated with nearby medical centers and Irwin County Hospital in Georgia in 2015. He and several other doctors reached a more than Dollar civil settlement with Georgia prosecutors to resolve allegations that they submitted fraudulent claims to Medicaid and Medicare. So this guy does have a history of fraud but the doctors lawyer Scott grubman is physical Earthly denying the allegations and said that basically once more information comes out he expects that almond will be cleared of all charges and that up until now he's dedicated his adult life to treating a high-risk and underserved.

3 (4m 27s):
Population in

1 (4m 27s):
Georgia, huh? Has he himself made a statement or is he just been speaking through his lawyer. Do you know

3 (4m 33s):
he did make a statement to the intercept and said that he had only performed one or two hysterectomies in the last couple of

1 (4m 41s):
years. Okay. Do we know how many women are alleging that this doctor gave them

3 (4m 46s):
hysterectomies. So from what we know from members of Congress. It appears that there are 17 or 18 people who had been subjected to unnecessary. Ceri gynecological procedures including hysterectomies that we know from the office of Representative pramila. Jayapal who's the vice chair of the house immigration subcommittee and she was briefed by three attorneys representing detainees at the facility. I think that if this was happening to these

1 (5m 13s):
individuals

3 (5m 14s):
that have attorneys and we're just finding out about it. It is possible that this is even larger than just the 17 or 18 that we know of but BuzzFeed reported that ice. It has informed lawmakers that the Detention Center had only referred to detainees for hysterectomies to outside Healthcare Providers since 2018. That might seem consistent with the complaint on its face and what we've heard from Camilla geopalz office, but it could still be possible that the detainees could have received hysterectomies without being specifically referred for the procedure. Do we know

1 (5m 52s):
whether these women gave consent for hysterectomies or not?

3 (5m 56s):
So Complaint itself is a bit ambiguous on that. It appears that they may have faced some language barriers that would have made it difficult for them to communicate with medical staff about their condition. But the reports that have come out since with attorneys coming forward about their clients who are detainees at the center suggests that they never were consulted for receiving these procedures and that they would have said no to them had had they been

1 (6m 25s):
consulted and these women who are saying they They have gotten these hysterectomies against their will have they spoken out. Are they speaking publicly?

3 (6m 32s):
So I've spoken with a couple of attorneys representing detainees at the facility one woman Pauline Bingham was scheduled to be deported on Wednesday morning, but members of Congress stepped in and she was literally pulled off the plane that I said booked at the last moment. She is now being returned to Texas. She must be there by now, and we are we intend to make sure that we get to hear from Pauline as part of our investigation. We're also calling on Ice immediately to stop supporting any other women that might be a part of this investigation that we need to talk to. I've seen her medical records and in August 2019. She went to a doctor to get a minor procedure done to treat her irregular menstrual bleeding and the procedure was such that the doctor would scrape off the inner lining of the uterus.

3 (7m 18s):
She went under anesthesia for that and when she woke up. She was informed that they also took out one of her Fallopian tubes and could expect to have difficulty conceiving in the future. ER but she was adamant that she never consented to it and the doctor that we mentioned earlier who reportedly administered many of these non-consensual gynecological procedures was actually listed as the ordering doctor for the procedure on her medical

1 (7m 41s):
file. Okay. As I said anything about that has ice spoken about the idea that women may have been given hysterectomies against their

3 (7m 50s):
will so we haven't actually heard a lot from ice, but both ice and a Detention Center are urging people to be skeptical of the Which is based on secondhand accounts with one detainee hearing things from other detainees. But while I think there's still a lot to unpack and investigate here with regard to what went on at the Detention Center. We now do have direct accounts from the attorneys of the women affected. So it's going to be a lot more difficult for the agency and the Detention Center to discredit them and argue that this is just hearsay and the private contractor that operates the Detention Center is denying the allegations entirely and saying that it's a way for the whistle. Lower and the organizations that helped file the complaint to push quote-unquote long-held political objectives

1 (8m 34s):
who's going to do the investigating.

3 (8m 36s):
So lawmakers are trying to currently verify the allegations the committee on homeland security said that they would examine the allegations as part of a broader ongoing investigation of ice detention conditions and the Department of Homeland Security announced yesterday that they're conducting their own investigation and they've also asked Inspector General to separately review the allegations.

1 (9m 2s):
What are the biggest questions that still need answering here?

3 (9m 5s):
So as I said a lot of details are still emerging here and Reporting still going on but it's not clear right now to what extent ice and the medical staff involved sought the detainees consent to perform the procedures and whether those procedures were medically necessary. We also don't know how many of these procedures were performed and why the doctor Performed them one of these he needs attorneys said that this may not necessarily be a quote-unquote systemic sterilization from ice. But rather the kind of thing that was allowed to flourish in the course of poor oversight and and terrible and Humane conditions in these ice detention facilities.

1 (9m 53s):
More with Nicole in a

3 (9m 54s):
minute.

1 (10m 11s):
Support for the show Renee comes from the financial times forget about the New York Times the Los Angeles Times the times of London various time zones. It's all about the financial times and their coverage of November's election. They're looking at it from every possible angle and they're especially focused on what consequences abidin or Trump Victory might bring both at home and abroad the Ripple effects of the election or of Is going to be enormous and they want to help you wrap your heads around them Financial Times journalist are writing about the ways America's response to the health and economic crisis were Tangled Up in right now might change depending on who wins in the fall.

1 (10m 53s):
They're also writing a ton about how businesses will be affected by a trump or Biden Victory. You can find all of the stuff that they're working on right now over at ft.com New agenda again, that is ft. dot-com new agenda Support for the show today comes from Stitch fix a lot of people don't love online shopping because you know you buy a thing and it doesn't look like you thought it would look it doesn't feel like you you thought I would feel it doesn't it doesn't fit like you thought it would fit but Stitch fix gives you a better way to buy clothes online.

1 (11m 34s):
It's a personal styling company that makes it way easier to get clothes that are cool that actually fit And that you actually love you. Just tell them what kind of stuff you like and they deliver you outfits designed just for you our own audio engineer here at the show of theme Shapiro gave it a try and you know, I gotta say themes never looked better. I hope he won't buy be sharing that detail try Stitch fix for yourself go to stitch fix.com explained and you will get 25% off when you keep everything in your fix in your order that is Stitch fix da. Cam explained and you get 25% off when you keep everything in your fix.

1 (12m 20s):
Cynical as you said The Whistleblower complaint featured this sort of shocking detail about hysterectomies on on page 18. What was the rest of this complaint about

3 (12m 36s):
said the bulk of the complaint was actually about conditions at the Detention Facility and how the facility was falling short of Isis guidelines on covid-19 prevention.

1 (12m 48s):
Do you sanitation is special Doing cold with the sanitation was horrible. We don't have anything to sanitize with we didn't have the proper PPE so they didn't have the proper PPE e they didn't have anything to sanitize with while they were down in the

3 (13m 3s):
dorms as well. And when you

1 (13m 6s):
ask you would be reprimanded.

3 (13m 9s):
She said that the Detention Facility was Under reporting covid-19 cases,

1 (13m 13s):
when we first had the first case of code within the facility it was covid is not here in the facility. We had another case and it was like cold was not here in the facility. We had several more cases and it was like cold was not here in the facility. You know, there was not

3 (13m 29s):
a proper

1 (13m 30s):
separation of those detainees whenever they come in, you know, there's a 14-day incubation period no, they weren't separated

3 (13m 38s):
knowingly placing stock and detainees at risk and that it neglected medical complaints and also refused to test symptomatic detainees,

1 (13m 46s):
huh? So we know the United States hasn't done a great job of protecting incarcerated people incarcerated Americans, even from covid-19. What do we know about how covid has been handled in these detention centers? Where were holding

3 (14m 0s):
immigrants? So immigrants across the u.s. Have been fighting for their release from Ice detention much like other incarcerated people for months. Now, they're alleging insufficient measures to protect them from coronavirus six detainees has died from covid-19 and almost 5800 have contracted. Iris, since February migrants are literally begging for their lives saying they are being used to clean infected areas of the

1 (14m 28s):
facility

3 (14m 30s):
including one migrant who said he was asked to clean feces of another inmate without masks or gloves. There is we've also seen reports says insufficient PPE being distributed a couple

1 (14m 41s):
disposable massive been given an April and a couple cloth Mass. They've been given in May and now they're

3 (14m 46s):
insufficiently frequent cleaning of public spaces failures to enforce it. Social distancing and failures to isolate new arrivals to detention centers and people who appear symptomatic

1 (14m 57s):
and what else do we know about this Irwin Detention Center in Georgia?

3 (15m 0s):
So the complaint alleges that they shredded medical requests that were submitted by detained immigrants and also fabricated medical records as well as allowed employees to work while they were symptomatic and awaiting their covid test results. And once they do get those test results back they had that information from employees and Detaining is about who had tested positive for covid and when immigrants decided to speak up against these practices, they were punished with solitary confinement.

1 (15m 30s):
And your impression. Is that this this Detention Center in Georgia is particularly egregious example of conditions across these centers.

3 (15m 39s):
Yeah. Definitely, I mean the health and sanitation practices and the lack of transparency with regard to covid cases and and medical. Kurds is really troubling and this isn't the first time that this Detention Center has come under Fire for failing to abide by Ice guidelines the same 2017 report project South

1 (16m 2s):
said the lack of adequate

3 (16m 3s):
access to Medical Care is alarming the standard wait time for immigrants at Irwin wanting to

1 (16m 8s):
visit the medical staff is between two

3 (16m 10s):
days and two weeks a report released by products house, which is the organization that brought this complaint in 2017 found that the center wasn't feeding detainees. Off and serve them spoiled food. It also paid them less than a dollar a day to do voluntary work and other organizations have also raised concerns about this particular detention center and their health and safety practices,

1 (16m 34s):
but other reporting on other detention centers, especially since the pandemic began suggest that conditions are bad elsewhere as well.

3 (16m 43s):
Yeah, it's definitely part of a broader pattern of abuses that occur in Immigration detention and particularly. So in facilities that are operated by private prison contractors and have less oversight from Ice as a whole Human Rights Watch has found that even before the pandemic access to Medical Care was really a problem in most detention centers and since 2017 39 adults have died in ice custody or immediately after being released from a host of conditions mostly relating to Put Medical Care

1 (17m 14s):
and and what do we know about women specifically and the conditions women face in these detention centers.

3 (17m 21s):
So we've long known that there are dangerous for Women's Health and Human Rights and detention centers

1 (17m 26s):
data from the Department of Homeland Security's Office of the Inspector General show that thousands of migrants have claimed they were sexually abused while in ice

3 (17m 36s):
custody. There have been thousands of complaints about sexual abuse in detention centers some of those include women obviously, but It also includes men and they're also used to be a policy against attaining pregnant migrant women. The Trump administration's ended a

1 (17m 50s):
policy exempting pregnant women from being jailed by immigrant and Customs Enforcement

3 (17m 55s):
ice and in the time since the number of pregnant women who are in detention has jumped about 80% a report by the government accountability office found that pregnant women were denied the required Medical Care and that detention facilities couldn't actually even provide that care. And there have also been reports of women miscarrying and detention facilities

1 (18m 17s):
in part of the issue here is that the Trump Administration isn't crazy about Birthright citizenship right immigrants coming to this country having their children here and then those children are automatically de facto United States citizens.

3 (18m 33s):
Yeah. I mean the Trump Administration has been suggesting that it would try to dismantle Birthright citizenship for a long time. Now,

1 (18m 41s):
we're looking at that very seriously Birthright. Medicine chip where you have a baby in our land you walk over the Border have a baby. Congratulations. The baby is now a US citizen. We're looking at it very very

3 (18m 52s):
seriously. President Trump has said that it might be a goal of his down the line frankly ridiculous and the Trump Administration has been trying to restrict women pregnant women from traveling to the US to prevent them from giving birth on us soil. And as you said becoming US citizens, so this this could definitely be part of that crap

1 (19m 15s):
down. That being said we should be clear here that the Trump Administration hasn't publicly stated that giving women hysterectomies against their will is part of any broader immigration policy right

3 (19m 29s):
now and they've been quite careful to say that if this is something that's going on. It seems to be isolated to a single Detention Center at this point. There's not evidence that there's a broader ice policy. Directive at stake here, and they have said that if this is going on at this Detention Center, they would take immediate measures to correct it. But of course for the women who have already had hysterectomies, there's not much they can do on that front.

1 (19m 58s):
Is there a chance here that the amount of attention this story has received could improve conditions at ice detention centers more broadly that it might I don't know. Cause the people who run these detention centers to think twice before violating the human rights of the people who are being detained.

3 (20m 21s):
I mean, I think if history shows anything unfortunately probably not we saw a whistleblower complaint come forward and in 2019 alleging that ice was using solitary confinement on a wide scale basis in a way that was not consistent with human rights, but ice has continued to use solitary. Mint and even during the pandemic they've used it to to isolate people in detention if they're exhibiting symptoms or if their new arrivals detention centers, so that whistleblower complaint doesn't make me encouraged that this time will be any better. But at least the federal government seems to say that if this is happening, it's wrong.

1 (22m 0s):
If one of the hardest things to figure out these days is what to watch next. First of all congrats second of all, you should check out HBO Max discover something new to watch on HBO Max like Lovecraft country the new HBO series from Jordan Peele Micha green and JJ Abrams, that's got everyone buzzing plus HB o-- Max is the only place you'll find new binge worthy Max Originals like Selena, Gomez's new cooking show. You heard that right? Selena Gomez's learning to cook from some of World's best chefs. No less find your next favourite all in one place on HBO Max start streaming today download the app or visit HBO Max.com to start your free trial.

1 (22m 45s):
In preparation for the u.s. Elections Facebook has taken a critical steps to secure their platforms and provide transparency. They've more than tripled their Safety and Security teams to 35,000 people implemented five step out of verification and launched a new voting information center. Learn more about how Facebook is preparing at f b.com about / elections. That's f b.com about / elections. Yes.