0 (1s):
Everyone seems to think that Republicans are gonna win back the house and maybe even the Senate in these midterm elections. If and when they do, it sounds like they've got some legislative ideas.

2 (14s):
I think the general point is there's gonna be even more pressure to obstruct Biden's agenda to prevent him or whoever runs on the Democratic ticket in 2024 from Looking Good

0 (25s):
And a lot of investigative ones.

3 (28s):
So these are gonna really span the wide world into broad issues that have been the subject of investigating reporting from the New York Times, the things that have been subject of investigative reporting from Bright Bar.

0 (43s):
The plan ahead on today explained

4 (1m 0s):
The case of a missing Indigenous Alaska Women sparks new questions about other missing and murdered indigenous women. But when the cops stop looking, a team of local journalists step in to bring the truth to light, that's where ABC's thrilling new drama Alaska Daily begins in where it's headed will have you on the edge of your seat, starring two time Oscar winner, Hillary Swank, Grace Dove and scandals. Jeff Perry, watch Alaska Daily. Thursdays on ABC and Stream. Next day on Hulu.

0 (1m 35s):
Hello, it's Sean. You know me as the host of today, Explain, but I wanna know a bit more about you. We all do, not just me, me and Noel and the rest of today explained team, the people who help us make editorial decisions, the people who help us make marketing decisions, the people who help us try and grow this show. Wanna know a bit more about you stuff. Like how often do you listen to this show? Do you ever visit the website vox.com? Do you ever watch V stuff on YouTube or Netflix? We wanna know all those kinds of things because they help us make a whole host of decisions. Go to vox.com/feedback today.

0 (2m 14s):
There is a link to the survey in the show notes as well. We really appreciate the time you take to let us know a bit more about you. Thank you. Today explain Sean Ram Room here in the studio with Rachel Cohen from Vox, who's recently written about the Republicans in Congress. Why is it an important time for us to talk about the Republicans in Congress?

2 (2m 43s):
Well, we are about a month away from the midterms, and most election forecasters think there's a pretty good chance the Republicans are gonna take the house.

1 (2m 54s):
Earlier

5 (2m 54s):
This year, election watches at the Cook Political Report forecast that Republicans would pick up 20 to 30 additional seats. That prediction has now dropped to a range of from 10 to 20.

2 (3m 5s):
You know, recently 5 38 had it at 69%. The economist model had it 74%. So that's sort of the backdrop. And then the Senate, even though right now Democrats are slightly favored to win, there are a lot of smart people in politics who are fairly skeptical about the public polling we're seeing. They say at best it's gonna be really close.

6 (3m 26s):
We really don't talk that much about the United States Senate. I think because the polling has been so limited. But in fact we have basically a toss up here for the United States Senate.

2 (3m 34s):
I think people feel pretty confident. Republicans will definitely take the house and they feel much more unsure about how the Senate is gonna go. So either way, that means that it's a pretty good time to think, Okay, well what do Republicans wanna do if they get control of the house? What bills do they wanna pass? They won't be able to pass their bills into law really, because Biden will still be in the White House, but they could potentially have a lot of power to push their agenda, try to block Democrats agenda and launch a bunch of investigations against Democrats in the Biden administration.

0 (4m 10s):
Well, let's pin investigations for a second and talk about legislation. Do congressional Republicans have any kind of cohesive strategy?

2 (4m 18s):
This is a good question. I spent some time for a recent article in VAX trying to sort of look through the various one pagers and agendas and manifestos circulating around. There are a bunch, they all sort of overlap, but of a little different flavors. The big ticket news agenda that just came out on September 23rd is from house minority leader Kevin McCarthy, who would become House speaker Republicans win in November. So there is a decent shot, right? This is sort of this big effort. He calls the Commitment to America platform.

7 (4m 53s):
What we're gonna roll out today is a commitment to America in Washington, now Washington DC but Washington County, Pennsylvania,

2 (5m 4s):
Where he's sort of trying to put out, Hey, elect us, this is what we're gonna do if we take power. But it's pretty vague in a lot of areas. I think there's few specifics and a lot of talking points.

7 (5m 16s):
We believe America's more than a country, America's an idea.

2 (5m 19s):
And so you don't get the clearest sense of, okay, what would they actually do if they win?

0 (5m 23s):
It sounds nice. A commitment to America, not like Nancy Pelosi taking trips to Taiwan. What's in it?

2 (5m 29s):
He actually got some assistance from former house Republican speaker, New Gingrich.

0 (5m 36s):
Wow. Throwback.

2 (5m 37s):
Yeah, he is still in the picture actually and has been advising Kevin McCarthy over the last year giving him suggestions on what to do because when he was part of the Republican group that took control of the house in 1994, they ran on a very similarly named platform called The Contract with America.

8 (5m 58s):
And I want to say to every American that we believe in this contract, in these reforms so deeply that we have not only put them in writing today, but that they will be in a full page ad and TV guide

2 (6m 13s):
And they, they basically promise, they said, elect us and we'll put votes immediately to the floor, you know, in our first month. And that document listed sort of eight specific reforms Republicans would do intend specific bills to bring to the floor.

8 (6m 29s):
This is not just a platform or just a set of ideas or just a brochure.

2 (6m 36s):
And Republicans promise that all their proposals would be issues that had 60% support.

8 (6m 42s):
Hmm. Every item in our contract is supported by 60% or more of the American people. Some of the items are supported as much as 80% of the American people and outside Washington, This is a contract with Americans for a America.

0 (6m 57s):
What does Old Newt wanna do? What's he whispering in Kevin's ear?

2 (7m 1s):
Newt has been, you know, generally advising Republicans to focus on kitchen table issues, to be really, really kind of happy warriors about the future of the country and double down on government oversight and accountability. So things like investigating Biden and election fraud, election security. Those I think are the messages he's pushed on. Kevin McCarthy and Kevin McCarthy has heard loud and clear. So that's kind of the background, but not everyone thinks it's a good idea to run on like a specific platform of stuff you do in office. But that is what Kevin McCarthy has decided to do and, and he's taking close counsel from New Gingrich over the last year about that.

0 (7m 44s):
And you've read this thing?

2 (7m 46s):
Yeah, it's literally one page. There aren't that many words to read. Okay.

0 (7m 50s):
Is there anything specific you parsed while reading this one page?

2 (7m 53s):
Yeah, so it's divided into four sections. An economy that's strong, a nation that's safe, a future that's built Tom freedom, and a government that's accountable. Hmm. And most of it's pretty vague in boiler plate tea. Like, you know, they promise if you elect Republicans, they will fight inflation and lower the cost of living. You're

7 (8m 13s):
Living through 12 months with only 11 months pay now because inflation is so high,

2 (8m 17s):
They will curb wasteful government spending and increase, take home pay and create good paying jobs.

7 (8m 24s):
Can I afford to fill up my tank? Can I afford the food, the milk? Can I find baby formula?

2 (8m 31s):
So you know, they don't say much about like how they would do that and that stuff. You would hear sort of on any Republican campaign speech, there are like a couple of specific pieces. They promise to end proxy voting for Congress, meaning you have to be in Congress to cast a vote. Nice. And they also say, we'll support 200,000 police officers. So you know, they give a specific number,

0 (8m 54s):
Why 200,000 thousand? What about all the rest

2 (8m 56s):
Of them? Or 200,000 more. Okay. And then there's stuff about making a parents' bill of rights for schools.

7 (9m 4s):
We can build an education system that has a parents' bill of rights that you have a say in your kids' education

2 (9m 11s):
And moving the supply chain away from China too

7 (9m 15s):
Long. China has too much control of our supply chain. We're gonna bring that back to America.

2 (9m 20s):
So on the whole, it's more vague than the 1994 contract with America. And I would say it's not very specific, but there are a couple of promises like eliminating welfare incentives, even though that's actually a very vague thing to say.

0 (9m 34s):
Well if the chief takeaway here is they're being vague, but wanna do nice things for America, what do we know concretely they're gonna face? I mean, the World War Ukraine is raging. What else is this congress gonna have to deal with?

2 (9m 48s):
Well, I think they're gonna definitely have to deal with inflation. They're definitely gonna be dealing with a nation that's grappling with reproductive rights politics that I do not think that's gonna go away after November. Mm. Yeah. War, the energy crisis. I think if the Fed keeps going with the way they're going, there could be massive unemployment next year. So that's gonna be up to the government to look at. I mean, one sort of worry is that Republicans would be really happy to make absolute chaos and have it then be blamed on Joe Biden. Ah, that's the thing. It's like how much responsibility will fall on Republicans if they take power is kind of an open question.

2 (10m 29s):
And they might wanna try to make things extremely bad for Biden going into 2024.

0 (10m 34s):
How unified are congressional Republicans behind Kevin McCarthy right now?

2 (10m 39s):
I mean, at this point everyone's kind of trying to stick to general talking points. They wanna minimize the opportunity to be attack going into November. But I think it is absolutely true that there are a lot of factional disputes within the Republican party that we tend to not hear about as much when they're just in the minority. Yeah. And you're gonna have people who wanna put pressure on Kevin McCarthy from the right. And I do think while there are some more moderate centrist Republicans, there's gonna be less space for them to work heading into 2024 because there's gonna be so much pressure to take bipartisan victories off the table for Biden. Yeah. But yeah, if Republicans take the house, I don't think Kevin McCarthy's ability to put out this agenda, you know, addresses the question of whether he'll be able to contain infighting if they're in power.

0 (11m 28s):
Let's talk about the Senate a little bit. How unified or Kevin McCarthy and Mitch McConnell?

2 (11m 34s):
So Mitch McConnell took a very different approach over the last year. He's been under pressure from donors and party leaders to also develop some kind of, what will Republican senators do if they win? And he's basically just rebuffed that if

9 (11m 51s):
Republicans take back control of Congress after the midterms, what would be your agenda?

10 (11m 57s):
That is a very good question, and I'll let you know when we take it back.

2 (12m 2s):
A big contrast between 1994 Republicans is 2014 Republicans. That's another time Republicans won the Senate. And basically all they did in that cycle was talk about how bad Obama was and how this election is a referendum on the White House and how you know, voters should throw Obama out of office and he's ruining the country. Yeah.

11 (12m 22s):
This was all about a direct rejection of the Obama agenda

2 (12m 27s):
And that's basically the strategy Mitch McConnell has endorsed taking, which is like give Democrats in liberals in the media, no specifics to attack us, just focus on the White House, make 2022 a referendum on Biden, keep all focus on the White House and rejecting the party in power.

12 (12m 44s):
I'm sorry, but McConnell's going basically full Seinfeld waging a campaign about nothing.

2 (12m 51s):
That's just a very different strategy from the Kevin McCarthy new Gingrich path.

0 (12m 57s):
Hmm. Sounds like classic Mitch though.

2 (12m 59s):
Yeah, and I mean, I will say, even though he's been not putting out his own platform, he did praise Kevin McCarthy like on Twitter when he released his plan. So I don't think they're, they're not at war with each other, they just have definitely different approaches for strategy.

0 (13m 19s):
So it sounds like if one thing's for sure though, it's that we're not gonna see a ton of bipartisanship if Republicans take the house or the Senate for that matter.

2 (13m 29s):
Yeah, I think that's right. I mean, I will say we saw more bipartisan deal making this cycle than I would've expected.

13 (13m 37s):
The infrastructure bill could not have passed the Senate without Republican support and the G O P was critical to getting the bill through the house as well.

14 (13m 45s):
President Biden signed the Chips and Science Act into law this morning. The bipartisan package aims to boost production of computer chips here at home in an effort to keep the US competitive with China.

2 (13m 57s):
So, you know, who knows? We could be surprised. There are certainly areas where I think there's a lot of potential sort of just policy wise where they could do stuff. But I think the general point is there's gonna be even more pressure to obstruct Biden's agenda to prevent him or whoever runs on the Democratic ticket in 2024 from looking good. That's why I think it's absolutely more likely you're gonna see a lot of investigations just focused on trying to make Biden and the Democratic Party exposing them, revealing their faults or how they may or may not be breaking the law. And I think that's definitely gonna be a big priority.

0 (14m 42s):
The investigations when we're back on today explained

15 (14m 59s):
History is vast and complex, but it can be better understood by looking at critical moments in which a single person approached a crowd was something important to say. That's the idea. Behind it was said, the 2021 Webby award-winning best podcast series is back with a new season reflecting on some of the most powerful, impactful, and timeless speeches in history, written and narrated by Pulitzer Prize winning author historian John Meacham. It was said, Season two brings 10 generation defining speeches to life, including those from Nelson Mandela, Winston Churchill, Eleanor Roosevelt, and Frederick Douglass. In every episode, Mecham along with top historians, authors and journalists offer expert insight and analysis into the historical context of these speeches, helping tell the stories of visionary leaders and discipline communicators whose words continue to resonate today.

15 (15m 45s):
It was set a creation and production of Peabody Award nominated C 13 Originals in association with the History Channel is now available on the Odyssey app or wherever you listen to your podcast.

16 (15m 59s):
Hey, it's Kenny May. I'm the host of Heyman. The Kenny Mae talks to famous people, podcasts, season one's out there on the universe. You can go back in time, find anybody you want as long as I interview them. Season two is coming up Thursday, October 13th. We've got Keith Erman and Dan Patrick together again. Sue Bird is involved. Rex Chapman, Dan Levard, Katie Nolan, Allison Becker, Sorry for all the others I interviewed who I left out. Oh yeah, Solo O'Brien, she was good. Get it on the Odyssey app or wherever you get your podcast.

7 (16m 30s):
We believe America's More than a Country

0 (16m 36s):
Today explained here with Ben Jacobs who reports on politics at Vox. Ben Rachel promised us investigations. Tell us investigations into what

3 (16m 47s):
This will be. The whole laundry list of investigations. There's gonna be investigations into stuff that is broad issues that Bipartisans concern from the withdrawal from Afghanistan and how that got bund, the situation at the border to, you know, the origins of Covid working down through into, you know, investigating Hunter Biden into looking into even the January sex committee or even into, you know, investigating the investigations of Donald Trump.

18 (17m 16s):
We're absolutely going to look into this stuff, we're going to reveal it for the American people. My Democrat colleagues are not gonna like the results, but there's nothing you can do about it because this house will once again belong to we the people and we the people demand accountability out of this

3 (17m 37s):
Body. So these are gonna really span the wide world into broad issues that have been the subject of investigating reporting from the New York Times to things that have been subject of investigative reporting from Bright Bar. So it'll be the whole range of everything under the sun.

0 (17m 56s):
Is there any through line here, Ben, do you see any connection between all the stuff that the g p might start to investigate if they take back Congress?

3 (18m 5s):
The through line is stuff that either Joe Biden and his administration has screwed up. Stuff that either people think Joe Biden, the administration has screwed up or stuff that gets talked about on Fox News. It's sort of whatever, whatever sort of gets folks going in terms of, you know, every possible criticism on under the sun that it's legitimate criticisms like the Afghanistan situation being screwed up all the way down to, you know, that there's talks about a special committee to investigate Hunter Bited and sort of getting into the swamps so that it's sort of just about everything under the sun in terms of what motivates conservatives right now and where people have concerns.

3 (18m 47s):
And it's a question of then the legitimacy of those concerns or or what they are.

0 (18m 52s):
So everything from the legitimate to perhaps the less legitimate, I mean some of the more fringy Republicans want to impeach Joe Biden. Yes,

19 (18m 60s):
I've introduced articles of impeachment on President Joe Biden.

0 (19m 3s):
Will McCarthy tolerate any of that business

3 (19m 7s):
Right now You have archery Taylor Green, who I believe is under her fifth different impeachment resolution of Joe Biden, which probably won't go anywhere there. Impeachment resolutions to Kamala Harris. Ted Cruz suggested that there would be an impeachment of Alejandra May Orcas, the Homeland Security Secretary over the handling of things at the border.

20 (19m 29s):
And I'll tell you what, the House of Representatives needs to impeach me Garland and they need to impeach Alejandro May Orcas, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and we need to have trials in the United States Senate on their abuse of power and the incredible damage it's doing to the rule of law and to Americans across this country.

3 (19m 47s):
But you know, it's worth noting that all of this is also dependent on the size of the Republican majorities too and how much there's the vote to do this and how much this can be shut down and committee, you know, that this is not just about what Kevin McCarthy would want in an ideal world, but what Kevin McCarthy can keep 218 votes together to do.

0 (20m 9s):
You mentioned Marjorie Taylor Green, of course she doesn't even accept that Joe Biden won the 2020 election.

19 (20m 15s):
That's right. We know President Trump won.

0 (20m 18s):
Do we know if Kevin McCarthy is going to give in to any of the election deniers in his ranks who wanna investigate Biden's win?

3 (20m 27s):
I mean it really doesn't seem like that's anything that realistically could happen that, you know, while most Republicans voted to race concerns, you know, voted to try to overturn the 2020 election. You know, it's a question with this folks about what you're talking about in election Deni that, you know, a lot of people are just trying to go along with where the party's at versus people who legitimately think Mike Lindell's right about the conspiracy with Hugo Chavez and the Italian satellites to change the results of the 2020 election. I mean, there's no upside for this, but you know, there's a question of what that majority looks like and that's, that's sort of the question whether they're gonna get fully caught up with the fever swamps and what the hardcore base of the party wants.

3 (21m 9s):
And that obviously depends on size, it depends on the political wins and depends on what's happened.

0 (21m 14s):
It, it seems like people on the left and the right are already making preparations for the go P so at least take the House of Representatives. Yeah. That includes, you know, Nancy Pelosi and are trip to Taiwan arguably, or, or Chuck Schumer and, and holding off on this vote to solidify gay rights until after, after the midterms. Are Republicans making any preparations for these investigations?

3 (21m 40s):
I mean, republicans already talking about oversight. They're sending in document preservation requests, they're already getting entirely ready to sort of lay out what they wanna do. And everyone I think is anticipating this, that they're already sort of laying the path work at starting the process to get the ball rolling so that they can provided, if they take over the house on January 3rd, which seems more likely than not, they'll be ready to go and to start, you know, subpoenaing everyone they can, whenever they can.

0 (22m 10s):
What kind of document requests, what do they tell us about what might happen?

3 (22m 13s):
You have document requests being sent over on Afghanistan. You have document requests that James Comer, who's the top Republican and House oversight is already sending letters to banks and treasury department relating to hundred biden's business dealings that this sort of everything under the sun that would be at the top, that they're already starting starting this process and getting things going.

21 (22m 34s):
Kevin McCarthy has told Merit Garland to clear his schedule and preserve all documents. That's a, that is actually an official action from the Congress in terms of document preservation.

0 (22m 45s):
But as long as Democrats have control of the White House, do any of these investigations have teeth?

3 (22m 52s):
Yes, they certainly have real teeth that these are congressional investigations with subpoena power that can drag folks before Congress and testify. There's obviously questions about how much we'll sort see precedents being followed from the Trump administration where they refuse to play ball and sort of essentially face down showdowns over contempt of Congress. And, you know, it remains to see how much that will happen. But you know, Congress is real power to do things as subpoena stuff and they can also turn this into things that can become government shutdown fights that they can sort of attach to fights over spending over the debt limit, over the defense authorization Bill that being a member of Congress still has some power these days.

0 (23m 39s):
A lot of the investigations you're alluding to feel at least tangentially related to the former president, if not directly related to the former president. How much of a wild card is he over all this stuff?

3 (23m 53s):
I mean he's, he's certainly a bit of a wild card, but some of that is sort of priced in. I mean, I think we all live in any universe and we're prepared for certainly not a tweet anymore, but a statement, truth, social, whatever, rally speech or interview something that obviously, you know, this is, a lot of this is sort of soaked in Trump's influence, but it's also gonna take place in what, you know, will be a competitive 2024 Republican primary too. Trump would be more likely to run than not, but he'll have competition if he runs and if he doesn't end up running, there'll be 37 Republicans, you know, all competing for the mantle of success or to his political movement.

3 (24m 36s):
But I think some of this is certainly soaked in Trumpism, but all of American politics across the political spectrum bears the influence of Donald Trump and what's happened over the past seven or eight years.

0 (24m 53s):
And so whatever the G o P does, if and when it takes back the house or even the Senate sets the stage for whatever might happen next in the White House.

3 (25m 2s):
I, I mean, I think it certainly will determine some of the mood music for this, but you know, it's also birth noting that, you know, aggressive oversight when the Congress and the presidency are held by different parties is absolutely nothing new that you can turn back to all the Clinton investigations in the nineties. You can look at Benghazi sort of normal at this point for house majorities of a different political party than the White House to try to find ways to extract political cost and to, to score powers in points when you have divided government that there's a Trump influence on this, but you know, nothing's that new under the sun.

0 (25m 50s):
That was Ben Jacobs, along with Rachel Cohen, who you heard from earlier in the show. He writes for vox.com. Check it out. Our program today was produced by a shy, artsy, edited by Matthew Colette, engineered by Paul Robert Mosey and fact checked by Laura. It's today explained.