3 (1s):
Before we get into the episode the episode is supported by Kiko and that's important kiwi goes got a website for you kiwi co.com explained that's even more important most important of all you get the chance to try them out for free for an entire

1 (18s):
month. When you go to that website kiwi co.com / explained what a gift to listen to a

3 (25s):
podcast and while you're doing a get offers to try free stuff just Nice to take a moment to realize that okay, here's the show you cry you crazy last week. We had three people testify in the now public impeachment inquiry this week. We're getting nine Andrew Prokop politics vaux, who are these nine

1 (49s):
people on Tuesday? We had Lieutenant Colonel Alexander venneman NSC staffer Jennifer Williams a state department official detailed to the vice. Students office Kurt Volker the former US Special representative for Ukraine and Tim Morrison another National Security Council staffer on Wednesday. We will have in the morning Gordon Sandlin the US ambassador to the European Union and in the afternoon Laura Cooper defense department official and David Hale the under Secretary of State for political Affairs and then on Thursday will close things out with Fiona Hill another former NSC staffer and David Holmes a Kiev Bay State Department official.

3 (1m 33s):
Okay. So a lot of people four of them went today into Marathon sessions. We're going to cover them in two episodes today. This is episode 1 all about the morning hearings. Let's talk about Williams and venneman.

1 (1m 46s):
So the main theme in the first round of testimony in the morning was that these two people were both on the Trump phone call with President zalenski on July 25th, but they have very different backgrounds Williams joined the government in 2005 as a political appointee under George W bush and then she became a Foreign Service Officer and is now has been working with the vice president's office detailed there for the past several months. It was

2 (2m 18s):
with great pride and conviction that I swore an oath to uphold and defend the Constitution administered by a personal hero of mine former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.

1 (2m 29s):
Venneman is a lieutenant colonel in the US Army he when he was very young his father brought him and his twin brother over to the US fleeing the Soviet Union and now they both actually work on the NSC. The brother is a lawyer and venneman as the top staffer with responsibility for Ukraine policy and in his opening statement venneman actually. Totally addressed his father saying that

2 (3m 3s):
Dad. I'm sitting here today in the US Capitol talking to our elected professionals talking to our elected professionals is proof that you made the right decision 40 years ago to leave the Soviet Union come here to the United States of America in search of a better life for our family. Do not worry. I will be fine for telling the

3 (3m 23s):
truth. He seemed particularly nervous. He was holding his statement and you could see See the paper shaking. Did you notice that

1 (3m 31s):
he was he he settled down later in the hearing. But at first he was clearly nervous. He mentioned several times in various ways the idea that

2 (3m 41s):
I want to take a moment to recognize the courage of my colleagues were appeared and are scheduled to appear before this committee. I want to say that the character attacks on these distinguished and honorable public servants is reprehensible.

1 (3m 53s):
So he's clearly, you know been feeling the heat from Trump's. Porter's and conservatives who have circulated various attacks on him and he expressed sympathy for others who have been facing similar attacks. So for instance on Friday when Marie yovanovich the former ambassador to Ukraine testified Trump attacked her with a tweet in the middle of the testimony over the weekend Trump attacked Jennifer Williams, whoever that is in another tweet calling her a never Trumper. Who I don't know and never even heard of so, you know, obviously these attacks would be coming from the president there have also been circulating against venneman in particular from some of the presents Defenders and some of them have been pretty ugly calling attention to his background and the fact that he's an immigrant from the former Soviet Union.

3 (4m 51s):
So yes, he is an immigrant from the former Soviet Union, but he is also an American military officer and a decorated one at that is Part of why the Democrats call them today.

1 (5m 1s):
I think they really liked the visual of having him there in his uniform criticizing President Trump's conduct on the call and he did criticize it. He said

2 (5m 11s):
that I was concerned by the call. What I heard was inappropriate and I reported my concerns to mr. Eisenberg. It is improper for the president of the United States to demand a foreign government investigate a US citizen and a political opponent. How

3 (5m 26s):
did Republicans approach venneman?

1 (5m 28s):
So they were a variety of different attack lines. They naturally tried probably the ugliest part was when the Republican attorney Steve Caster pursued a line of questioning that seemed to be suggesting some possible dual loyalty on the part of Inman to Ukraine

2 (5m 49s):
when you were you went to Ukraine for the inauguration correctly 20th at any point during that trip did mr. Danny look offer you a position of Defense Minister. With the Ukrainian government he did and how many times did he do that? I believe it was three times and you know any reason why he asked you to do that. I don't know but every single time I dismissed

1 (6m 11s):
it and you know Vin man said he just found it rather comical. He's an American he obviously dismissed it and he reported it internally and but then Castor kept asking, you know, when he made this offer was he speaking in English or Rain Ian and you know, it seemed to be planting some seeds of Doubt as to where the loyalties of this decorated military officer with some routes tracing back to Ukraine. Ultimately like I

2 (6m 44s):
could have him in what languages do you speak? I speak Russian and Ukrainian and a little bit of English.

3 (6m 51s):
How's it going to look for Republicans? I mean attacking women who was awarded the Purple Heart after being wounded in Iraq in Thousand four.

1 (6m 59s):
Well, I mean they have a storied history of this Trump famously attacked John McCain during the 2016 campaign said he likes people who weren't captured and didn't seem to hurt him very much. So, yeah, it'll probably work out fine for them.

3 (7m 15s):
Let's talk about Jennifer Williams. So many of the questions that she was asked pertain to vice president Pence did his role in this whole mess become clearer through her

1 (7m 26s):
testimony. She didn't actually We have it seemed a very close relationship with Pence when it comes to you know, frequent conversations with him or anything like that. What she did shed some more light on was an event that happened near the beginning of this Saga shortly after zalenski was elected the president of Ukraine Trump had an initial phone call with him to congratulate him and said that maybe Pence would come to the you Raishin Williams explained that on May 13. She was told that Trump had decided that Pence would not go to Ukraine for the inauguration of zalenski after all

2 (8m 12s):
and did you have any any knowledge of the reasoning for stopping the trip? I ask my colleague why we should stop trip planning and why the vice president would not be attending and I was informed that the president had decided the vice president would not attend the inauguration and but do you know why the President decided no, she did not have that information

1 (8m 32s):
in the days before this. There was a bit of a controversy in the Press with Rudy Giuliani saying he'd go to Ukraine and then calling off a trip and complaining about presidents alinsky's advisor. So the subtext was basically Trump may have cancelled Pence's trip to Ukraine to punish has a lensky for not playing ball with Rudy Giuliani.

3 (8m 54s):
The vice president has sort of distanced himself from Williams. Were there any attacks on her credibility or is she a sort of trustworthy Source in the eyes of the Republicans here?

1 (9m 4s):
Certainly her testimony raises questions about why Trump canceled that trip for Pence, but but but she didn't really have any sort of Smoking Gun or any devastating evidence like that. They mainly focused on Vin bin and of course, they also focused on The Whistleblower so Devin Nunes - in his questioning of Inman tried to press him again. And again to name a member of the intelligence Community who he spoke with about Trump's phone call with the Ukrainian president

2 (9m 38s):
Lieutenant Colonel venneman, you testified in the deposition that you did not know who the Whistleblower was or I do not know who the Whistleblower is that is how is it possible for you to name these people and then Out The Whistleblower Per the advice of my counsel. I've been advised not to answer specific questions about members of the intelligence community

1 (10m 6s):
and then man's lawyer said under the rules of the committee. We shouldn't do this shift said that this is all about just trying to Out The Whistleblower and you know newness really tried to get it out there but vement did not answer. He said he technically doesn't know who the Whistleblower is. It seems that he strongly suspect so The Whistleblower is this Intelligence Community official he talked to about the call, but the Democrats are trying to avoid any outing of The Whistleblower as they call it.

3 (10m 37s):
So these testimonies from Williams and Vim and kicked off a very big week for this impeachment inquiry? What do we learn from the testimonies? Did they did they push this story any further.

1 (10m 48s):
Both of these Witnesses testified behind closed doors previously. So we didn't get new Bombshells from them. But the point of this hearing in Democrat size was to bring to people who were both on that July 25th phone call between Trump and president solinsky and who both were concerned about it. They both agreed that They thought it was inappropriate. They thought it was political and that's something smelled bad here. So then we proceeded later in the afternoon to two witnesses who the Republicans had actually requested in the hopes that they would be a bit more favorable to President Trump.

3 (11m 45s):
Andrew Prokop, thank you. We will be back in a few hours with another episode on the afternoon hearings. Keep an eye on your feeds. I'm Shawn Rama's Forum. This is today

2 (11m 54s):
explained.

3 (12m 4s):
Hello. Hello is this Michael Yes. Hey, can you hear me? It's Sean from today explained. Yeah, I can hear you Michael. Where are you? Right now? I'm just sitting in the living room watching two dogs in like in Canada somewhere. Yeah. I'm in Toronto in Toronto my home and native town. Are there you go Michael. I'm not sure if you're a listener of Our Daily News podcast, but I think your your daughter Jillian might be is that right? Yeah. my daughter Jillian listens to all the time and I guess that's where she came across these wonderful little machines and things and they figured the old man needed to keep his mind busy as so they signed me up for for a three-month subscription as a as my birthday present apparently and I think you're talking about the machines that you can find at kiwi co.com / explained where you're where listeners can get a chance to try these It's these projects these Artistic Endeavors out for free.

3 (13m 3s):
Did you realize that you were getting roped into a subscription service when your daughter presented you with a kiwi co-project? Well, actually I didn't no one told me about it first thing. I heard about it. I got an email saying there was a parcel being shipped to me and I wasn't sure if it's an email I should open because not all that tech savvy and I wasn't anything I had ordered it. So when I inquired I was told no, it's legit and the first thing The ride was a pinball machine. He's like what was their reaction to that? It was great. You know, I like building things. They know that putting things together and I looked at it and thought well, we got two grandkids will put it together and and see if they enjoy playing with it along with me and they certainly did that's great.

3 (13m 50s):
You know, I think when we talk about chirico on the show, I'm often asked to stress the fact that like, it's great for kids of all ages. Ages, do you mind Michael if I ask how old you are? No? No, I'm I'm 79. So you are you are a great test case for this theory that it's great for kids of all ages. Yeah.