1 (1s):
The shows about to start a moment, but I just want to tell you about another show first. It's called bad with money. It's a podcast where New York Times bestselling author comedian Gaby Dunn breaks down everything about money and are complicated relationship with it on bad with money Gaby talks to journalists activists and everyday people about everything from Universal basic income to student loan debt to weed. The season. Gabby is going International to show dissect how Americans talk about money and how money is valued by people in countries and cultures around the world the all Season of Bad with money is out. Now. If you are bad with money, you should go check it out or if you're good with money to maybe learn something find it in your podcast app And subscribe. So you never miss stories about people being bad with money.

1 (43s):
You cry you

2 (46s):
crave,

1 (49s):
you know this whole Ukraine explain things started with this whistleblower Scandal on September 23rd, son of a Biden. A whistleblower in the intelligence Community sparked a political Scandal involving President Trump. The president of the United States wanted dirt on his political rival and he wanted another country to dig it up for him the very next day September 24th Democratic Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi called for an impeachment inquiry of the president in short order. We got the so-called transcript. We got the Whistleblower complaint. We got piece after piece of a puzzle that featured more names more texts more phone calls, but it wasn't Till last week that this impeachment inquiry became a public-facing televised event and the event of this event.

1 (1m 36s):
The one that everyone has been waiting for today's testimony of EU Ambassador Gordon Sandlin today. We devote our entire show to his televised testimony and what it means for the story. There are so many characters in the story Taylor Kent jovanovic Williams venneman Volker Morrison, but it's Sunland who was on the phone with the president while nudging Ukraine our show today in three acts. Mr. Sandlin Goes to Washington from W. Vo X Washington. It's today explained. I'm Sean Rama's for him.

3 (2m 12s):
Stay with

2 (2m 13s):
us.

1 (2m 19s):
A Guam the third Amigo Amigo one former special Envoy to Ukraine Kurt Volker Amigo to Energy Secretary Rick Perry Amigo three ambassador to the EU Gordon Sunland Amigo catarse Andrew Prokop. He takes it from here.

3 (2m 37s):
Sunland is a luxury hotel magnate and he's been a longtime Republican

2 (2m 42s):
donor. I expect that few Americans have heard my name before these events. So before I begin my substantive testimony, please let me share some of my personal

3 (2m 53s):
background. What seems to have happened. Is that around 2016 Sunland wanted to upgrade his status Sandlin decided to donate $1,000,000. To Trump's inauguration committee and he was rewarded for this by being nominated by Trump to be the US ambassador to the European Union and assume that post in

1 (3m 19s):
2018. How does he go from being ambassador to the EU to getting involved in Ukraine

3 (3m 25s):
sidling claims that Ukraine was always part of his mandate, but what really seems to have happened. Is that after the most recent US ambassador to you? Ukraine Marie yovanovich who testified last week in the inquiry was ousted from her post Sunland took on a rather outsized role in US diplomacy toward Ukraine and he did so alongside to other people Kurt Volker who testified on Tuesday and Rick Perry the Secretary of Energy and Sunland famously named them The Three

2 (4m 3s):
Amigos He goes, you know, you're part of the Three Amigos I am I'm a proud part of the Three

3 (4m 13s):
Amigos Volker his fellow Amigo turned over and extensive set of text messages related to Communications within about Ukraine throughout 2019. And in these texts Sandlin plays a starring role. He is often the one who is most blatantly pushing for. A quid pro quo with Ukraine the text made clear that's on land was a lot more involved in this than you might think the ambassador to the European Union would be so Democrats were really eager to hear what he had to say when he went behind closed doors in

1 (4m 52s):
October. So what did he initially say behind closed doors

3 (4m 56s):
his initial story was that it was mainly because of Rudy Giuliani that's on land himself had little role and he was also vague on the topic. Whether that military aid to Ukraine was being linked to this push as well. So the problem for Sandlin. Is that other Witnesses notably Bill Taylor. Also National Security Council staffer. Tim Morrison went on to testify within weeks. That's not what seemed to be a lot more heavily involved in all this than he was fully explaining.

1 (5m 29s):
And is this when he starts to sort of roll back his initial testimony.

3 (5m 33s):
Yes. So after the other way Enos is testify Sandlin made the rather unusual move of submitting an addendum. He said that actually he now does recall that on September 1st. He told the top adviser to the Ukrainian president that they probably wouldn't get their military aid unless they agree to the investigations Trump

1 (5m 55s):
wanted what's going on when he's rolling this back. Is he afraid of being caught in a perjury situation going to jail? Maybe

3 (6m 3s):
someone was definitely The witness that Democrats had the most doubts about his credibility because his testimony seem to conflict so much with that of other Witnesses and documents and this is sworn testimony. So yes Island really would be risking a possible criminal prosecution and he may have paid attention to the trial of Roger Stone, which just wrapped up the longtime Trump advisor who was just convicted of lying to Congress and sworn

1 (6m 32s):
testimony.

3 (6m 35s):
The stakes were pretty high for sandilands Testimony in the public setting on Wednesday both because of the doubts about his credibility and because Sandlin is currently the only witness on Democrats line up to have had several conversations with President Trump personally about this topic. So everyone was wondering what would Gordon Sandlin say

1 (7m 9s):
The stage is set Ambassador. Gordon sandland has a seat in front of the cameras. He talks about his early life his passion for politics his support of Republicans, even some Democrats and then he sings like a soprano that's in a minute from W vo X and the VOX media podcast Network when our program continues Quick note here in the past week on today explained we've talked about Isis and and noise and a far-right party in Spain that's actually called vocs and and the rise of far-right parties across Western Europe and even the world and and certainly impeachment and impeachment and impeachment we've talked about impeachment a lot.

1 (8m 9s):
But I want to tell you about our sort of cousin podcast reset. It's all about technology and how it's changing our lives. It's from recode and vaux and the

2 (8m 19s):
I

1 (8m 19s):
think they have talked about SMS texting and how a bunch of people sent texts on like Valentine's Day 2019, but they didn't get delivered until this month and how that caused some serious consternation for some people who were like no longer in relationships with the people who the text finally got sent to it's very complicated and interesting. They talked about a big Air B&B Scamp. They talked about why Google has your health records Google has partnered with one of America's large Hospital networks and gained a bunch of access to millions of health records. Does that freak you out? If so, maybe you want to listen to reset right now from recode and Vox check it out, wherever you listen to your podcasts they cover other things than the impeachment inquiry.

1 (9m 10s):
It's this Ukrainian life. I'm Sean Rama's firm each day in our show. Of course, we do an episode about the news bring you all sorts of sounds about that news songs archival audio interviews Today Show. Mr. Sandland Goes to Washington. We are breaking down the long-awaited testimony from the EU Ambassador. We have now arrived at Act 2 act to Song of Solomon and no one really knew what he would say what he plead the fifth Woody contradict his prior testimony. Would he reveal new information our story continues with Fox's Andrew broke up Andrew. How did Ambassador sandland open up today?

3 (9m 45s):
So saddling gave testimony that was very bad to the Republican defenses of this overall. He said that there was absolutely a quid pro quo involving a white house meeting being withheld from the ukrainians until they committed to investigations. He said that he was following the president's orders. In talking to Rudy Giuliani about all this and helping try to get the ukrainians to go along with what Giuliani was pushing and he really really wanted to make clear that this was not just him Gordon solid that there was lots of involvement from others in the Trump Administration from the state department to the White House to the vice president's office.

3 (10m 36s):
So he was basically throwing everyone under the bus.

1 (10m 40s):
Okay, let's talk about everyone who got run over one by one starting with Giuliani.

3 (10m 46s):
So Sandlin said that he and the other Amigos worked with Giuliani on Ukraine matters at the express direction of the president,

2 (10m 55s):
and we did not want to work with mr. Giuliani. Simply put we were playing the hand. We were dealt. We all understood that if we refuse to work with mr. Giuliani, we would lose a very important opportunity to cement relations between the United States and Ukraine. So we followed the president's orders

3 (11m 20s):
and he also explained

2 (11m 22s):
that mr. Giuliani's requests were a quid pro quo for arranging a White House visit for president solinsky. Mr. Giuliani demanded that Ukraine make a public statement announcing the investigations of the 2016 election DNC server and Boris mama. Mr. Giuliani was expressing the desires of the president of the United States and we knew these investigations were important to the president.

3 (11m 54s):
So as we already knew Giuliani is key to all this and sandland is saying I didn't want to work with this guy. But basically I had

1 (12m 2s):
to after he made it clear that he was not a big fan of Giuliani nor his later work. He moved on to Mike Pompeo and the state department. What do you have to say about the state Department's involvement in Ukraine?

3 (12m 15s):
So sandland wanted to make clear that he regularly updated Secretary of State Pompeo and advisors close to Pompeo on what he was telling the ukrainians that he was really trying to get president solinsky to commit to these investigations and Sunland brought receipts. He read at quotes from emails. He sent to Pompeo and pompeyo zade's these

2 (12m 41s):
emails show that the leadership of the state. It Department the National Security Council and the White House. We're all informed about the Ukraine efforts from May 23rd 2019 until the security aide was released on September 11th,

3 (13m 0s):
2019. And we should note here that Pompey was actually on the phone call between Trump and zalenski on July 25th. When Trump himself made the same demands to zalenski and It as investigating the Biden's so Pompeo knew what this was all about and Sunland presented a good deal of evidence suggesting that his involvement was deeper than we previously

1 (13m 26s):
knew and this is significant because this house impeachment inquiry isn't going to hear from Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. Yeah.

3 (13m 33s):
Yes. So while a host of State Department officials have shown up to testify complying with subpoenas Pompeo has not agreed to testify and And more than that, he has decreed that the state department should not hand over any documents to the house impeachment inquiry and after sunland's testimony today that looks a whole lot more like it could be something like obstruction rather than just the ordinary political stonewalling. It seems that Pompeo may not want to hand over evidence that relates to his own personal knowledge of what was happening

1 (14m 11s):
here. Where did Sandlin go once he was done with Julie? Any and pompeyo,

3 (14m 15s):
so the Sunland bus made a brief stop over White House acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney, but the bus made a particularly interesting stop after that when he went over vice president Mike Pence sounds Lynn explained that on September 1st when he and Mike Pence were both in Warsaw. And had a meeting with zalenski sumlin said that before the meeting he told Pence that he was worried that Trump was holding up the security assistance unless Ukraine committed to the investigations and he said that Pence kind of nodded in response, but did it really engage much with the topic and the Democratic questioner attorney Daniel Goldman

2 (15m 9s):
said and vice president Pence just nodded his head again. I don't recall any exchange or where he Ask me any questions. I think he it was sort of a duly noted. Well, he didn't say. Gordon what are you talking about now? He did not he didn't say what investigations He did not.

3 (15m 28s):
So again. This speaks to the broader point that Solomon was trying to express which is that everyone's in the loop that this was not the freelancing of one Ambassador and perhaps the president's lawyer Rudy Giuliani, but that people at the highest levels of the administration in the state department in the National Security Council in the vice president's office in the white They all knew about this and they were all going along

1 (15m 60s):
with it. And that of course means that President Trump knew about it

3 (16m 4s):
sounds treatment of President Trump is a bit more complicated in my view. It's on land claimed that Trump never directly told him that the holdup in military aid for Ukraine was linked to the demand for investigations rather Sandlin continue to insist that this is something he He just presumed that as Daniel Goldman the Democratic questioner put it that. It was something that he figured out sort of logically like a math

2 (16m 40s):
problem and you you understood the ukrainians received. No credible explanation as I write. I certainly didn't couldn't give them one. So This kind of a two plus two equals

3 (16m 52s):
four and he kept returning to that metaphor. This was not something Trump told him. It was rather something that became very clear to him something that seemed obvious. Yep. So he did not present The Smoking Gun of President Trump told me that he was withholding the military aid for Ukraine unless they did the investigations rather. It was something that Was unspoken by the president in his

1 (17m 22s):
telling and after you get Giuliani and pompeyo and Mulvaney and Pence and Trump. I guess there's nowhere else to go. But ASAP Rocky. Yeah, what

2 (17m 33s):
triggered my memory was someone's reference to ASAP Rocky when he mentioned ASAP Rocky then all of a sudden it came back to me. Well the whole thing sort of came back to me after and shinned ASAP Rocky. I was talking on the time of the gym sap Rocky and smoking while strolling down rooster. Yeah, so this related to another

3 (17m 54s):
phone call between Saint lend and Trump that Sunland initially did not recall, but that another witness has now testified to overhearing and this occurred on July 26th in a restaurant in Kiev and sandland called Trump the other witness to this call testified that son would told trump. It hadn't worked out to free ASAP Rocky just yet, but you can tell. The Kardashians you tried in the end ASAP Rocky was in fact released and returned to the us about a week later, which meant that except Rocky was freed about a month before the military aid for Ukraine was freed

1 (18m 36s):
long live ASAP Rocky. All right P ASAP

2 (18m 38s):
yams.

1 (18m 58s):
We've arrived at the third and final Act of our show. It's been a journey. We've been at it since September almost completely the whole time with one guy, you know who senior correspondent at vaux act 3 the Final Act quid pro cop.

3 (19m 12s):
So the funny part was that when Devin Nunes gave his opening statement. He

2 (19m 18s):
talked a lot about how this is a carefully orchestrated media smear

3 (19m 24s):
campaign, but then things took a turn with some Let's opening statement and the Republicans seem to have realized that his testimony was not so friendly to Trump after all so the GOP decided to shift gears and in the end they were the ones trying to really attack some

1 (19m 43s):
blind. So Republicans had to come up with this plan on the spot because they had no idea whether this Sandlin testimony would go their way or not. Was it effective?

3 (19m 53s):
They did come up with some aspects of what sandland said that were. Were somewhat helpful to them for instance Sunland saying that he only presumed that Trump was linking the military aid to the investigations, but overall the bigger picture is that this was not good testimony for republicans and for President Trump

1 (20m 18s):
and the president was watching along taking notes and giant black Sharpie. He brought them outside to the South lawn to address the Press under helicopter. What'd he have to say? So Trump

3 (20m 30s):
picked out just one piece of what Sandlin said that he thought was helpful to him toward the end of The Saga on September 9th silence says, he called Trump

2 (20m 42s):
and it was a very short abrupt conversation. He was not in a good mood. So he's going what do you want? What do you want to hear all these years? What do you want? Right

3 (20m 51s):
and according to Sunland Trump responded? I

2 (20m 55s):
want nothing. I want nothing. I want nothing. I want no quid pro quo tell zielinski to do the right thing

3 (21m 4s):
Trump seemed to think that you know, this gets him off the hook, even though it comes very late in the process. It comes after months of quid pro quo demands on the ukrainians and it happened just as news of the Scandal was threatening to get out. So it's unclear how much of an exoneration it really is. But at least in this One instance soglin says that Trump said he wanted no quid pro quo

1 (21m 33s):
Andrew it occurs to me as this public facing impeachment inquiry the televised testimonies wind down this week that this is probably the most engaged the country's been in our national politics since the hearings of Brett Kavanaugh and who knows maybe the most engaged will all be until the 2020 election. How did American democracy look up there on the TV over the course of the past two weeks,

3 (21m 59s):
you know, it's been encouraging in some respects despite the polarization and dysfunction in our politics impeachment investigators here have managed to shake loose a lot of useful and relevant factual information. And I think that is kind of the take away here that you know, the executive branch is Simply one monolith. That's defending President Trump that there are people working there who are willing to speak up when they see something that they feel is wrong or even if they don't think it's wrong that are willing to provide information and testimony about what they know.

1 (22m 46s):
Despite the

3 (22m 47s):
efforts on the part of the president to obstruct and impede this inquiry. It has resulted in genuine information and Revelations and it's been good for informing the public over all about just what their president has been up to.

1 (23m 6s):
Well Andrew Prokop. Thank you for being our guide through this Saga. That is Ukraine explained. It's been my pleasure. Our program was produced today by Bridget McCarthy and no I'm hassenfeld with me Halima shot and I'm gonna al-saadi our executive producer is Irene. Noguchi. Our engineer is a film Shapiro. Our fact Checker is Olivia extra mandar music consultant is the mysterious brake master cylinder special. Thanks this week to liable cells professor of government at Georgetown University in Washington DC liya contributed to our episode on Spain that ran earlier this week are email today explained at vox.com our Twitter today underscore explained today explained is produced in association with Stitcher VOX media podcast Network management oversight for our program by our boss.

1 (23m 57s):
Mr. Ezra. Klein was never publicly acknowledged his early hip hop work as ASAP Klein.

2 (24m 3s):
Yeah, what triggered my memory was someone's reference to ASAP Rocky.

1 (24m 6s):
I'm Shawn Rama's for him back tomorrow with another explanation of today.