1 (1s):
In what is seemingly becoming a tradition on this show before we get to the show? I'm going to tell you about another podcast think of it as like a trailer for a movie before you see the movie you actually came to watch. So here we go in a world where there's a podcast called by the book that is half reality show have self-help podcast and one wild social experiment in this world comedian polenta Greenberg and culture. Critic, Kristen meinzer choose a different self help book to live by for two weeks along the way they record themselves at work at home and out in the world.

1 (44s):
They share if said self-help book is improving or in some cases destroying their lives by the book. Listen And subscribe wherever you listen to your podcasts. Breaking news you guys India is a very big country the second biggest in terms of population. It's also home to the second largest Muslim population in the whole world.

1 (1m 26s):
And that's why the citizenship Amendment India's parliament passed yesterday 19 as possible. That looks about to a senate committee of Rochester. Isn't going over very well. The amendment simplifies the path to citizenship for Hindu refugees from neighboring countries. A lot of people though are saying what that actually amounts to is a Muslim ban. We called up Neha Massey in New Delhi to explain she covers India for the Washington Post and says this legislation is just one part of the ruling BJP parties master plan.

3 (2m 12s):
So this is a part of the bjp's vision for India as a hindustani. It as a country which Hindus can call their Homeland.

1 (2m 21s):
So tell me what's in the final past version of this bill. What does it say?

3 (2m 25s):
So the current bill that was passed will make a fundamental change to India citizenship law which will include for the first time ever religion as a criteria for nationality. So the bill says that minorities from Afghanistan Bangladesh and Pakistan and a specifies the religions which include obviously Hindus Christians parsees. He's Buddhists jains and seeks so six religions will be afforded an easier path to citizenship. If they have come to India illegally or without papers or have overstayed their visas by 2014. This does not include Muslims and of course does not include three other India's neighbors, including China Burma and Sri Lanka which have persecuted minorities which include Muslims.

3 (3m 15s):
So that's where the Controversial aspect of the bill

1 (3m 18s):
life. So I think that might be confusing to people you're dealing with three countries six religions, excluding a bunch of other countries and even Hindus from those other countries. Why?

3 (3m 33s):
Well, I think one assessment is that the three countries mentioned will cover most of the potentially illegal immigrants who will be Hindus. So majority of those will be from these three countries particularly Bangladesh as to the other part of the question that why does it exclude the other countries? Because if the other countries like Burma or Sri Lanka were to be included the minorities there include Muslims. So that is why the intent of this bill is being questioned that it is. Women a tree as it excludes a specific countries where Muslims are in minority. So if the if the government wants to provide amnesty to persecuted minorities in the neighborhood, it should have ideally included all other countries.

3 (4m 16s):
So to be clear

1 (4m 17s):
here this bill that passed in India this week is great. If you're a Hindu immigrant from three countries and bad if you're a Muslim immigrant from a number of

3 (4m 26s):
countries, that would be accurate

1 (4m 30s):
and it's clear that this isn't an accident that this This was the design of the bill.

3 (4m 35s):
This was asked repeatedly to the home minister during the debate in Parliament. And there was no clear answer to why other countries have been left out while these have been included why specific religions have been named and others not named but the ruling Hindu nationalist government says it's Bill does not discriminate against

1 (4m 57s):
Muslims. This bill will not harm even a little bit any minority. Especially our Muslim brothers and sisters who live in this country because this bill only give citizenship. It doesn't take it away from anybody in this bill. They are targeting a community without naming it it

3 (5m 16s):
violates the basic structure of the Constitution. It is divisive and exclusive. It has consequences that you can't even imagine and this is part of your political strategy.

1 (5m 26s):
So outside of India people are framing this as a Muslim ban. Does it look like that inside India?

3 (5m 34s):
Well, so it is more complicated than that and I think there is definitely a difference from mr. Trump's Muslim ban here. The ban is actually a form of exclusion and in light of possible future actions of the government. It has deepened concerns that Muslims citizens current citizens of the country will be reduced to second-class citizens without any

1 (5m 55s):
rights. I wonder if this guy if the government here was intending to It Muslim citizenship and Muslim immigration in some way. Did they intentionally complicate the bill? So it didn't look that

3 (6m 8s):
way. Well, it's hard to you know State someone else's intent here. And of course, these are questions that will get challenged in court. In fact earlier this morning a constitutional challenge has already been filed against the bill arguing that it goes against article 14 which crowns everyone equality before law

1 (6m 28s):
my anything come of that challenge.

3 (6m 30s):
It will take some time and legal challenges are long-drawn Affairs particularly in India, and there will be several other challenges coming up as well. So it won't be very soon

1 (6m 41s):
what other opposition did it face as it made its way through the legislature and passed this week.

3 (6m 45s):
So about from the opposition in Parliament. There have been protests in the Northeast particularly, which have turned violent today thousands of people have defied the curfew to come out internet has been suspended many here in Assam. See the passage of the

1 (7m 0s):
Ship Amendment bill as a clear message from the Hindu nationalist government

3 (7m 6s):
that they are second-class citizens. What do you think? I'll make us minority in our own very straight in our own very religion by giving citizenship to Bangladesh is so there is a lot of violence that is going on there. And in the rest of the country there have been Civil Society protests that have been organized people have written letters to the president and prime minister are urging them to withdraw the bill people have also declared that if this is passed and if there is a nationwide registry next they will refuse to submit papers in solidarity with Muslims or declare themselves. Slim's so the response has been widespread. Of course. There is also a segment of the population that supports the bjp's move and celebrated the passing of this bill

1 (7m 53s):
in a country of 1.3 billion people. Do you have any sense of how many people support this legislation?

3 (8m 1s):
That's a very hard question to answer. Unfortunately. What is the measure of support that we would use to do that? If we see electoral success as a measure of popularity for the government's action. Oh, then yes, it would be construed that because mr. Modi came back in power earlier this year with a bigger majority then he had and all of these proposals were part of the party's Manifesto and he spoken about them during the campaign. So in that way, yes, it does enjoy popularity. However, if you look at, you know, the percentage of votes that the BJP won across the country, it's still within 30 to 40 percent depending on and different regions. So that also shows that a lot of the country did not vote for The BJP or mr.

3 (8m 43s):
Mordy

1 (8m 49s):
tell me about maldis vision for India right now semester model year

3 (8m 56s):
is From the BJP The View India's history as a series of humiliations of first by Muslim rule under the mobiles. And then of course by the British colonial Empire and for them their aim or goal is To redress that by reclaiming the glory of the ancient Hindu civilization. So for them India secular quality India's Founders that envisioned ER secular State and Constitution is is something that they seek to undo.

1 (9m 30s):
So apart from this Muslim ban, how's it going about achieving this vision for India? Right? So in his

3 (9m 37s):
second term the government has lost no time in implementing its larger or Vision or Plan, so in in August soon after being elected it revoked Kashmir, which is a Muslim majority region. It provokes cashmeres semi autonomous status.

1 (9m 54s):
India has flooded Jammu and Kashmir with tens of thousands of extra troops and police the result an atmosphere of uncertainty and

3 (10m 2s):
apprehension. And since then Kashmir has not gone back to normalcy if I can call it that the second thing which happened soon after After after the crash May decision was the Supreme Court verdict on the ram Temple. This is again a long-standing demand, which the BJP had promised to fulfill that a grant Ram. Temple will be built or where once a mosque

1 (10m 26s):
stood. They believe the nearby 16th century. Babri mosque was built by a Mughal Emperor after destroying a temple on the exact spot where God ROM was allegedly born frenzied Mob Store down the boss sparking deadly riots and driving away. Between Hindus and Muslims

3 (10m 44s):
and then of course, the latest one has been the passing of the citizenship Bill.

1 (10m 49s):
What's next in this

3 (10m 50s):
plan? There are two other things that are likely to come up. Next one is the citizenship registry, which it has to be seen in conjunction with this bill. So if if that happens then all 1.3 billion people of the country will have to prove that they are citizens. However, the terms and conditions and what what What will be the parameters are not clear right now? And and if that happens then Muslims who get excluded will not have a path to citizenship again while the Hindus who may get excluded will be able to find a way back. And the last I would say is is the uniform civil code. So India is a secular country allows different religions to practice their own personal laws, but under a uniform civil code all religions will you know will be governed by a common law and not and not by their personal loans.

1 (11m 42s):
Hmm and how will that sort of serve this

3 (11m 45s):
Mission? The BJP has also consistently accused the opposition particularly the congress party, which is ruled India for most of its 70 years of Independence as pandering and appeasing the Muslim minorities. So the Muslims follow their own personal law which means that there are certain aspects of their Customs that you know, they are allowed to follow which they won't be allowed to do if the uniform civil code is brought in. Hmm.

1 (12m 11s):
How soon will these actions in Kashmir which we've talked about on the show before plus turning this mosque into a temple altering the civil code how much do these actions serve the end of turning India into a Hindu

3 (12m 25s):
State? Well, so there are several aspects to that one is of course the legal and the Constitutional framework. So India's Constitution remains on paper a secular a secular Republic so that will be harder to change. For that they will have to go through a legal framework via the courts because that can be challenged. So that's one aspect of it. But what they can do is bring in legislations like these which fundamentally change the nature of the Republic even if it's not law and and that's something that a lot of critics of the government as well as columnist have pointed out that builds like the citizenship Amendment fundamentally alter the idea of India that it was founded upon

1 (13m 8s):
nationalism really seems to be trending right now is there's something uniquely Indian in this push. We're seeing to create a Hindu state or do you think this is just part of a broad Resurgence of identity politics across the world

3 (13m 21s):
both. I think it's a bit of both there is definitely a move across the world towards, you know, right-wing populist leaders who increasingly are showing or authoritarian Tendencies, but again in the Indian context if I were to say there are also things which are uniquely specific which mean that India's home to a large number of minorities. So so the other is actually not an external threat which you know, mr. Trump has been able to make for instance. The other in India are actually its own

1 (13m 53s):
citizens.

3 (13m 57s):
My name is Veronica why I am a writer and an activist and I work on gender rights and minority rights in India. I happen to have a Muslim name. So yes, I am identified as a Muslim. We have grown up in a very plural in. A very diverse country in which we have intermarried with Hindus and with Christians and have grown up in an extremely happy situation where there has been absolutely no sense of discrimination. That one has experienced personally or professionally for that matter a lot has changed in this country from 2014. We have seen people being being fearful of traveling or revealing their identities on buses and on trains trying to disguise their identity if you We've seen this kind of atmosphere of hatred growing people being lynched on the streets beaten to death by mobs video recorded and circulated as symbols of of Triumph This is what you saw in the Antebellum South in America.

3 (14m 58s):
This is what the universe what the humanity believes should never ever be allowed to record. We've seen that in India, there is across the board among those who consider themselves. Oral votaries of this country who consider themselves people who believe in the idea of India as India was when it was born when it was birthed when we gave ourselves our constitution in 1950 all of us Hindus and Muslims together. We'll yes, there is a Steely resolve. We have to fight this and we must fight this we will fight

1 (15m 33s):
this Thanks to far enough fee and Neha Massey for joining us from New Delhi today. I'm Shawn Rama's from this is today explained from the District of Columbia.