0 (1s):
Support for the shutter day comes from Walmart. According to Walmart, your first job there could lead to a lasting career. More than three quarters of their management in stores started out as hourly workers, including their president and CEO. Walmart is committed to strengthening the paths of their associates by investing in their futures, like paying 100% of college tuition for nearly 1.5 million eligible associates. According to Walmart, learn more at walmart.com/spark, Emily Stewart Vox. You and I have talked about inflation on this program before, but it's confusing and it's pretty important right now.

0 (47s):
So just in case anyone out there is too embarrassed to admit that they don't fully understand what exactly inflation is. Let's just start by doing a quick definition. What exactly is inflation?

2 (58s):
Inflation is just a general rise in prices. So basically your dollar doesn't go. As far as it used to the basket of stuff you would buy at the grocery store every week, it starts to cost more money. I think it's important to realize prices rise slowly over time, right? Like a cup of coffee today costs more than a cup of coffee in the sixties, right? And you don't think that's weird because most people just don't notice low inflation over long periods of time. Right? Inflation gets brought up when prices are going up faster and you actually start to notice when you go to the grocery store and you walk out of like a trader Joe's and you're like, wait a minute. Like what just happened? I bought the same stuff I do every week,

0 (1m 36s):
Which is exactly what's happening right now. Yes,

2 (1m 38s):
Exactly. Inflation is really increasing at a rate that we haven't seen in quite some time.

3 (1m 46s):
Okay. You know, this already Americans are paying more for just about everything right now. As inflation hits a 30 year high

4 (1m 53s):
Regular gas prices up more than 50% utility gas, 28% used cars, beef, pork, eggs, all

2 (2m 1s):
To put it a little bit more concretely, the consumer price index, which measures what consumers pay for goods and services rose by 6.2% over the past 12 months as of October. And that's the fastest pace since 1990 and prices were up almost 1% over the month. That's a lot. That's something that you noticed when you go out to a restaurant, I've noticed it. Sometimes I'll go out to a restaurant and be like, wait, is wine this much? Like it does just start to creep into your life. The warehouse group.

5 (2m 29s):
And Drinkery near Omaha says it had no choice, but to add $2 to all chicken and beef dishes on the menu and an extra $3 for,

0 (2m 38s):
I've been to multiple restaurants where there's just like a sticker on the menu that says like every price is 15% more. Really?

2 (2m 46s):
I haven't seen that yet. They're mostly

0 (2m 47s):
Like holding the wall, Chinese restaurants, but that's kinda my shit though. So it's like, it's really effective.

5 (2m 53s):
That's the other reason for the price hikes restaurants and their suppliers are facing a major

2 (2m 60s):
Of workers, which is forcing them to pay higher wages to keep and attract staff. We have heard a lot obviously about wages going up during the pandemic, right? Or I guess in recent months that workers are not going back to work. They're demanding higher wages, but what's happening now is that wages overall are not going up as fast as inflation. Real wages, meaning wages adjusted for inflation are down about a percent this year. So if workers are making wage gains or just your paycheck is going up or seeing how it is like your paycheck is not going as fast as prices are. So your money's not getting it as far as, as it used to maybe

6 (3m 39s):
Before to fill up 15, 20 gallons of gasoline. I know a lot of people are struggling.

0 (3m 55s):
The last time we talked about inflation on the show, which was back in June, I think the episode was called, why stuff is getting more expensive. You told me that a lot of people thought our inflation situation was temporary. A problem created by the supply chain kinks that came out of the pandemic. Is that still the consensus?

2 (4m 13s):
It depends who you ask. But at this point, I think it's safe to say that this is lasting a lot longer than a lot of economists and policy makers thought. And certainly hoped earlier this year, you know, the white house has been really vocal that this is transitory, meaning it's temporary

8 (4m 28s):
Virtually. And the data shows that most of the price increases we've seen are, were expected and expected to be temporary. Reality is you can't flip the global economics light back on and not expect,

2 (4m 43s):
No, that was June. It is now November. It's lasting a little bit longer than people thought and it, and it's broader as well. Right. But I do think it's kind of important to maybe talk about a specific thing, because it does feel like everything, right? And one big example that we've seen kind of throughout the year is used cars. They are much more expensive than they used to be. So the price of used cars are up 26% year over year. That's a lot, right? So now might be a good time to trade in or sell your car. You could turn a profit dealers say that there is a whole bunch of different reasons for this. There is a chip shortage for new cars, which kind of spills over into used cars. You know, people also don't want to take public transportation.

2 (5m 26s):
And so it's all kind of a mess, right? And that has led to use cards being very expensive. If you're on the market for used car, you probably know that. And so, you know, for most people like I didn't buy a car last year. It doesn't necessarily matter for me. But if you were on the market for used car last year, you're like annoyed. At this point.

0 (5m 46s):
A lot of people bought used cars during the pandemic because they discovered, you know, it'd be nice to go places, but it's not like it's a daily purchase or a weekly purchase. What about more everyday stuff? Like,

2 (5m 58s):
Well, that's the thing like inflation really is starting to pick up everywhere in a way that's noticeable. My mom's been complaining to me that her Christmas baking is more expensive, right? So it is showing up everywhere. The prices of food are going up. Price of beef is up 20% year. Over year, bacon is up 15%. Eggs are up 12% gas is going up a lot. And that's super annoying to people. Some

9 (6m 23s):
Out in California spending as much as $5 a gallon

2 (6m 26s):
To fill up

9 (6m 27s):
Experts say demand has just outpaced supply

2 (6m 30s):
And supply. According to AAA, price of unleaded gas is about $3 40 cents. Right now, here we go was two 11 and let some of that stuff, it should be important to note that it's a little bit tricky. Like gas prices are not Joe Biden's fault. Oil is a global commodity, right? So this isn't like a us problem. It's a world problem during the pandemic early on, demand dropped. So production dropped. And so now, you know, as people are traveling again, getting back out on the road, as there is more demand for oil, it's taking kind of the industry a while to catch up.

0 (7m 1s):
Sounds like it's a great time to be like a vegan who rides a

2 (7m 4s):
Bicycle. I mean, I, is it that's a great time, but maybe not a fun time. I'm sorry. And the cost of heating is also predicted to rise. And so, you know, like I said before, most people are noticing that something's going on.

0 (7m 24s):
This is all a pretty unpredictable science, but do economists have any theories about when this might end?

2 (7m 32s):
I think it's safe to say this is probably not going to stop before the holidays, which is not ideal at the same time. I do think this year's holiday season is probably maybe health wise, safer than last year, but we don't really know when it's going to end, like, are these things going to shake themselves out? Will the government need to act to kind of help things shake themselves out? And there's also a concern that as people come to expect inflation, that makes it worse. People start to ask for higher wages, businesses start to raise prices. And so it sort of becomes this self-fulfilling prophecy. And there is some concern that that will, you know, sort of cause things to spiral.

2 (8m 14s):
I don't think we're headed towards 1970s level inflation, which is what a lot of people talk about. Or at least a lot of economists say that's very unlikely, but it is a little bit murky right now,

0 (8m 29s):
But there is something the federal government could do here to sort of slow the inflation.

2 (8m 35s):
The federal reserve is tasked with managing inflation and they can take steps that at least historically have slowed the rise of prices. But those steps do come at a cost

0 (9m 22s):
Support for the show. Today comes from business wars. It's a podcast. More, more specifically we're talking business wars, iPhone versus a Blackberry. Yes. Blackberry remember way back in the early two thousands when Blackberry hit the market and all of a sudden people were sending emails. It was a game changer. They were the first mobile device to sync work emails on a phone at that scale. And it wasn't long before Steve jobs and apple thought they could outperform Blackberry in the all-new season of business wars. You'll hear about how blackberries and iPhones battled for their share of the emerging mobile phone markets.

0 (10m 2s):
You can listen to the business wars, iPhone versus Blackberry podcast on apple podcasts. Ironically, on Amazon music, you can listen ad free by joining Wondery plus in the Wondery app. I am not sure if you can listen to it on a Blackberry. Unfortunately for Blackberry Support for this Saturday comes from noon, noon basis. Their entire platform unwind to help people lead healthier lives through behavioral change. And new weight is a great way to start. Instead of setting a strict set of rules, new weight empowers you with the practical knowledge to build smarter more sustainable habits and behaviors by using a cognitive behavioral approach.

0 (10m 54s):
You'll focus on the why instead of the what to change your relationship with eating. The reason for this is because everyone's journey is different and new believes in progression and not perfection. If that sounds good to you, sign up for your trial and get psychology-based support and motivation to reach your goals@noondotcomslashexplainedthatisnoom.com slash explained Emily. Before the break, you mentioned that there is stuff the federal reserve could do to step in here and manage inflation. What can they do?

2 (11m 34s):
So one big thing that the fed can do is to raise interest rates, which basically means making it more expensive to borrow money, and that would slow the economy down. And historically, at least raising interest rates would theoretically slow down inflation. I think it's also important to note the fed has started phone code tapering meeting it's scaling back. Some of its bond buying program meant to help the economy. So the fed is slowly, already kind of cooling down a little bit of support for the economy, but, you know, there is growing pressure for them to do something on interest rates

10 (12m 15s):
If inflation persists, which I think it will, it will move forward. The point at which the fed is forced to raise interest rates and sooner or later the,

2 (12m 26s):
The fed chair, Jay Powell has resisted as Dan interest rates. He's been pretty clear that the economy is still recovering from the pandemic and he really wants to get people back towards,

11 (12m 37s):
I would want to assure people that, that we will use our tools as appropriate to get inflation under control. We don't think it's a good time to raise interest rates though, because we want to see the labor market heal further,

2 (12m 49s):
But it's kind of a tricky line because the vet is a little bit too trigger-happy it starts raising rates. They could hinder the recovery and make things worse. And at the same time, you don't want inflation to get so bad that, that it really also hurts the economy. So he's in a little bit of a tough spot.

0 (13m 9s):
How does El Presidente feel about that tough spot that the fed chairs in?

2 (13m 14s):
Well, we're kind of right now, president Joe Biden can decide whether or not to reappoint Powell to be the fed chair. We think that might happen this week. So I guess we'll know pretty quickly how he feels about Paul's job performance,

0 (13m 28s):
Who might president Biden replaced Jerome Powell with, if he decides to do that this week or the next,

2 (13m 34s):
It looks like the other person who's kind of the top contender here. It's isle Brainerd who is on the Fed's board of governors.

0 (13m 42s):
Brainerd. Yeah. Sounds like they might have the right head for this kind of problem.

2 (13m 51s):
That's quite a joke. Yeah. I mean, with her, the thing is that we don't know that she would have a super different take than Powell on inflation or path of the fed going forward. Proponents

12 (14m 2s):
Powell say he's charted the economy through the pandemic. And of course change could introduce more uncertainty. A renomination would reaffirm the Fed's independence from politics, but he's a registered Republican, which progressive say is a non-starter. They largely backed governor Lael, Brainard citing her record on financial regulation.

2 (14m 22s):
If Biden were to choose her, it would signal that he's, you know, not happy with what Jay Powell has been up to and not happy with what's going on in the economy right now.

0 (14m 32s):
That's like a tough trade-off though. Like having some people be able to find a job versus having everyone paying more for food, gas and electronics.

2 (14m 42s):
Right. I think that's sort of the hard thing to square here. You know, millions of people lost their jobs in the pandemic kids, and lots of people have gotten their jobs back, but not everybody. We kind of don't understand entirely what's going on in the labor force, why people are not going back to work. And, you know, I think it's just one of those things where again, if is it better that people are paying a little bit more for ice cream or milk or whatever they're getting at this store, but they have a job to help them pay for that. We're not. And I do think it's also important to point out inflation is happening in a lot of places in the world, not just in states.

2 (15m 22s):
So everybody's kind of dealing with this same problem.

0 (15m 26s):
Okay. So there's this open debate about, you know, employment versus inflation. But what we know for certain is that a lot more Americans are freaking out about inflation. Yeah. Yeah.

2 (15m 38s):
People hate inflation. We started saying

13 (15m 41s):
And everything going up, grocery prices went up. Gallon of milk was a dollar 99. Now it's 2 79. Well, when you buy 12 gallons a week, times, four weeks, you know, that's a lot of money.

2 (15m 51s):
Neil Erwin at the times has a good story about this. That, you know, people do have money in their pockets, things to the stimulus checks, the American rescue plan. People have a lot of job opportunities. People are quitting their jobs at a high rate, which is generally a sign that they feel like they can find another job. And yet people feel really bad about the economy. And a lot of that is inflation. Michigan puts out a survey on consumer sentiment that basically shows that people feel worse about the economy right now than they did an April of 2020. Like when the pandemic was hitting. And we thought maybe we were headed into like another great depression, right? That was a scary time. Real scary time.

2 (16m 32s):
That's, what's really wild about this. Like people feel bad now

14 (16m 36s):
There's 22% of adults say we're headed in the right direction. Us shocking, 71% say we're on the wrong track. And that includes a near majority of Democrats who were saying,

2 (16m 46s):
And again, people are sitting on cash from the government stimulus programs. Employers are begging people to take jobs. We see all of these stories about how they're all these job openings. People aren't going back. But inflation has a really powerful, psychological effect. People don't like it and they start to worry about it. And it is nerve wracking. It's understandably nerve wracking. If you think your paycheck is not rising with your cost of living, that's a scary prospect.

0 (17m 13s):
And this is why despite getting some stuff done and generally keeping a low profile, people seem to be not terribly satisfied with the job president Biden's doing right now. Huh?

2 (17m 25s):
Yeah. That's what the polling suggests. People don't feel good about the economy and they don't feel good about Joe Biden. Recent NBC news poll found that just 40% of people approved of Biden's handling of the economy. That sounds from 52% in April. So it's quite a drop come on.

0 (17m 42s):
And I know by just had a big win on traditional infrastructure, but there's still this second half of that question about all that sort of human infrastructure care stuff that he wants to do are the numbers and the improval ratings and the, the drama on inflation getting in the way of him getting his care package done.

2 (18m 2s):
I think it's fair to say that inflation doesn't help. There's some people in Congress who don't want to vote for bill bank better for plenty of reasons. Joe mentioned

15 (18m 14s):
Years, Joe Manchin has gotten his haircuts by the same barber, his wife, Gail

2 (18m 19s):
Kiersten, cinema, Ms. Cinema, Ms. Cinema, no, this kind of gives them another thing to add to the list of like, maybe I'm not so sure about this bill. Maybe let's think about it. Republicans have also been really unified around the message that one inflation is terrible. Two inflation is Joe Biden's fault. He's coming for your Christmas. And three passing, a big social spending bill will make inflation even worse. So they're pretty aligned on this. So how much inflation will, will hurt build back better? And the chance of the reconciliation bill hard to say, but I think it's really fair to say the white house would much rather not be dealing with this.

0 (19m 1s):
Do they have any counters to this argument that, that this kind of spending is only going to make inflation worse?

2 (19m 7s):
Biden is trying to make the argument that they'll back better will lower inflation because it will let more people get back to work. It will improve the supply chain,

8 (19m 16s):
17 Nobel laureates and economics wrote a letter to me about 10 days ago, saying this is going to affect to bring inflation down, not

2 (19m 25s):
How successful that will be. Who knows. I mean, how successful any of this will be? Who knows?

0 (19m 30s):
There's just a lot of unknowns, but the one thing we know is that inflation's happening. It's a real issue for a lot of people. People are displeased. It's not going away. It's going to affect Christmas, which probably won't be good for Joe Biden. And that's about where the clarity ends. Do you think there'll at least be some kind of consensus about how to handle this problem maybe in the near future?

2 (19m 55s):
I mean, was there any sense we know a little bit how to handle the problem. The fed is not asleep at the wheel. If inflation does start to become really worrying, they're going to start to raise interest rates. I think full stop. They're not, not paying attention, but I think the broader point here is that the economy is really confusing right now. Like we are coming out of an unprecedented shutdown in the labor market is super weird. Nobody quite knows what's going on everywhere. I think anybody who says they know exactly what's happening in the economy right now. Like it's just not true. Nobody quite knows, but it's important to him also think about, we've made a lot of big gains since March 20, 20, right?

2 (20m 36s):
A lot of the government stimulus really did help people, low wage workers have the upper hand for the first time in a long time in some industries. And it's not clear that higher interest rates are going to solve something like a trucker shortage, right? Like if, if you don't want to drive a truck because driving a truck stuck like higher interest rates are not going to change that. I guess like the thing that at least I keep telling myself, as I feel annoyed about, about inflation heading into the holidays is like I haven't been home for Christmas to see my mom in two years. And this is the first time I'm going to be home. Right? It's sucks that things are going to be a little bit more expensive, but maybe just like buy less and enjoy the fact that maybe you can see your family a little bit more safely this year.

0 (21m 20s):
I like that. And maybe in the new year consider becoming a vegan who bikes,

2 (21m 26s):
If you incest,

0 (21m 40s):
Emily Stewart. She's grateful. She can see her family little bit more safely this year. So as miles Brian and so's will read, they produce this episode. I'm Sean, Rama's from it's today explained, and we're closing out our series on the future of work. This coming Friday with an episode all about retirement. Do you think about retirement? What are your retirement plans does thinking about or planning for retirement? Give you anxiety. Joy. We want to hear all about your feelings regarding retirement to before Friday. Heck we want to hear about them right now. Give us a call and leave us a brief message at 2 0 2 6 8 8 5 9 4 4.

0 (22m 19s):
Again, that is 2 0 2 6 8 8 5 9 4 4. Or you can email us a brief voice memo where today explained@vox.com. Thanks.