2 (5s):
Casey

3 (5s):
Newton The Verge you published leaked audio from Mark Zuckerberg this week and it set the internet of flame. How did you get the audio?

1 (13s):
Well, I mean, I can't say too much about how I got it. But you know what I can tell you is that in July Facebook held a couple of open meetings for employees where they could come and as part of those meetings, they could ask questions Facebook employees are really smart and they had a lot of good questions, but I think those questions really revealed a lot of anxieties running through the company right

3 (35s):
now as a dude who writes a lot about Facebook from the outside how Stokes were you to get inside the company like this,

1 (44s):
you know, I'm a face book nerd right? I spend a lot of my day trying to understand this company how it makes decisions with the people inside of it are thinking and so to me every single question that he answers on this recording as a gift. He talks about the rocky rollout of Libra, which is their cryptocurrency that they're developing public things. I think tend to be a little more dramatic. That's a bigger part of this private engagement with Regulators around the world. And those I think often are more substantive. He talks about the rise of tick-tock, which is maybe their greatest Rising competitor in the social space and how they're planning to kind of stop it in their tracks.

1 (1m 28s):
So that's a standalone app that we're we're working on trying to get product Market fit and countries like Mexico is I think one of the first initial ones for trying to first see if we can we can get it to work in countries for Tick-Tock is not already big or we go and compete in kung fu with Tick-Tock and countries when they are big and then he just takes these really interesting questions like somebody at Facebook asks, you know, what are we supposed to tell our friends who don't like Facebook anymore, you know, basically like what are you doing about the declining reputation of this company, which is all stuff that I find so fascinating, but you just never really get to hear anyone at the company Reckoning with in real

3 (2m 5s):
time for leaked audio is doesn't sound all that informal Mark sounds pretty

1 (2m 11s):
polished, but it's also way less polished than you would hear him in a public interview. Right? Like I think if you asked about Tick-Tock in a public interview, he's gonna damir and say oh, well, you know, we've got lots of competitors right, but when an employee asked him, he says, you know, we built a clone and we've rolled it. In Mexico because Tick-Tock hasn't gotten there yet and hopefully we can figure it out of Mexico. And if we do then we're going to take it to countries where Tik-Tok is already

3 (2m 34s):
successful. When you publish this piece a few days ago, there is one particular exchange that got a ton of attention from people including a front-runner in the presidential race. What was the question Mark Zuckerberg was asked here.

1 (2m 49s):
So the question is with the rise of politicians like Senator Warren. I was wondering how personally worried you are about Regulators coming in and breaking up Facebook. And so this is the thing that Zuckerberg said that got everybody tweeting the right answers to break up the companies. Is elected president that I would I would bet that we will have a legal Challenge and I would add that we will win the legal challenge. So it's so it's so basically it's and so I it does that still site for us. Yeah. I mean, I don't have to you know have a major lawsuit against our own government. I mean that's not like the position that you want to be in when you're you know, I mean, it's like we care about our country and I want to work with our governments and do good things and but we'll look at the end the day if someone's going to try to threaten something that existential you go to the back and they fight and that was the thing that made everybody go

3 (3m 44s):
crazy because that's mark saying we're gonna sue the federal government if they try to break us

1 (3m 48s):
up. Yeah, and it's also like an extremely polite Tech magnate telling you that he's ready to fight which is just not language. You typically hear from a

3 (3m 57s):
CEO. Did anyone ask a follow-up question like hey Mark, it's not going to make us look that much better. If we Sue live before to the federal

1 (4m 4s):
government, there were no follow. Ups at this meeting, but I would imagine that the rank-and-file Facebook employees were probably satisfied with that answer. Right? What's the alternative you could say? Look I would bet that if Elizabeth Warren gets elected. She's gonna sue us and we will roll over and give the government whatever they want. Right is like probably not what he was gonna

3 (4m 22s):
say. And then what did she say when she

1 (4m 24s):
published so in the audio Zuckerberg says that suing the government to stop a breakup would suck and Elizabeth Warren responded. What would really suck is if we don't fix a corrupt system that lets giant companies like Facebook engaged in illegal anti-competitive practices stomp on consumer privacy rights and repeatedly fumble their responsibility to protect our

3 (4m 45s):
democracy and remind us why Elizabeth Warren wants to break up Facebook.

1 (4m 50s):
So Elizabeth Warren has talked a lot about the reduction in competition between the big tech companies right? There are basically five tech Giants Facebook Google Amazon Apple. Microsoft they all get bigger every year and the more they grow the less room there is for Innovation, at least that's what Warren argues fewer jobs get created all of the gains from those companies go to an increasingly smaller part of the population and as they work on Technologies, like automation, you know, robots stuff that could take away human jobs. You're potentially setting up the economy for a really hard time.

1 (5m 33s):
So Elizabeth Warren wants to see us get back to a time when there was maybe a little bit healthier competition between the tech companies in the

3 (5m 41s):
economy and Mark doesn't like

1 (5m 42s):
that. Well Mark wants Facebook to be as big as it possibly can be. You know, he thinks every person on Earth should have a Facebook account and that they should build whatever Services they can to both connect people and make money. And so he thinks that if you were to say forced them to spin off WhatsApp and Instagram, which is something that a lot of politicians have called for They wouldn't be able to fight election interference as much. He's just a freaking up his company for their Facebook or Google or Amazon is not actually, you know, it doesn't make election interference less likely it makes it more likely they would just be a weaker company qualitatively the same types of issues, but there maybe they wouldn't even be viable over the long term.

1 (6m 39s):
So to him as he says in the audio, this is an existential fight like Mark Zuckerberg doesn't think that Facebook without what's happened Instagram is even Facebook anymore.

3 (6m 48s):
So, it's Mark Zuckerberg responded to Senator Warren.

1 (6m 51s):
Yes. He surprised me by sharing a link to my article on his own Facebook

3 (6m 57s):
page. Oh, really? Yeah. It was surprising. I was

1 (6m 59s):
like coming out of a meeting and somebody at Facebook texted me and said hey, do you know that Mark just shared your

3 (7m 5s):
story? What did he actually say about it? He said even though it was meant to be

1 (7m 10s):
internal rather than public now that it's out there. You can check it out if you're interested in seeing an unfiltered. And of what I'm thinking and telling employees on a bunch of topics.

3 (7m 19s):
Hmm. What's your reaction to Mark's reaction to What Elizabeth Ward said to what Mark said,

1 (7m 25s):
so I thought this was a brilliant bit of narrative Jiu-Jitsu on the part of Facebook's Communications apparatus because in one Fell Swoop, they were able to remove any sense that these remarks were scandalous and then they also inspired a legion of conspiracy theorist to descend on my Twitter mentions demanding to know whether this had all been a coordinated leak from Facebook. Really? Yeah people thought that you know, Facebook is called me up and said, hey, we recorded a bunch of audio in July and we're just going to give it to you and you can do whatever you want with it. Which like me I know my life would be so much easier if that was how journalism worked but that is not how it works and it was not a coordinated

3 (8m 4s):
leak. It's not that surprising that Mark Zuckerberg really wants to like Crush Tick-Tock and it's not that surprising that Mark Zuckerberg is going to resist, you know, the federal government coming down on on Facebook being a monopoly and owning most of this. Significant social media of our time. What do you think is the most surprising thing about this audio leaking to you and being out there in the world?

1 (8m 24s):
I don't think that audio like this needs to necessarily be surprising to be interesting and what's interesting to me about the audio is not so much what Zuckerberg says as what his employees are worried about right? Like we all think of Facebook as this monolith And yet when you actually get inside this meeting and you listen to what employees want to know about they want to know hey is the government actually going to break us up. Are we going to get crushed by a competitor? What are we doing about our bad reputation with young people? Like there's sort of a sense that there are some employees who might not be as proud as they used to be that they work at Facebook. So we that is what is interesting and even if that's all stuff that maybe you could have guessed or like maybe you assumed it's a very different thing to have the audio where you hear

3 (9m 12s):
it. Do you think because this audio leaked? It's going to set a Bad precedent in Facebook and other companies like it Twitter Google where I mean, it's a big time for whistleblowers Casey might there be more things coming out of the tech world than we've seen in the past. It's usually kind of a siloed environment.

1 (9m 27s):
Yeah. I think that for a long time most tech employees at most companies bought into whatever the stated mission of the company was and it's a reason that they like working there is they feel like they are contributing to some Positive Purpose that is larger than themselves and I think just as these companies got to be so so big and as they became primarily money-making machines as opposed to vehicles for bettering the World employees have started to push back on the idea that their companies are just unqualified Goods for the world. And so we've seen more internal organizing a company's over the past two years than we've probably ever seen.

1 (10m 13s):
We have the Google walk out last year we Employees at Amazon protesting its contributions to climate change we've seen protests of Defense contracts that Microsoft so more and more employees are speaking out against what their employers are doing and that is a trend that I expect will continue.

3 (10m 40s):
I spoke with Casey Thursday morning and not long after that Mark Zuckerberg made an unprecedented decision to live stream of Facebook QA. This was actually this is an interesting forcing function this week worth it. This thing came out and I was like, alright, let's try to run

2 (10m 55s):
this as an experiment. I don't actually know how this is gonna go.

1 (10m 58s):
But I guess at this point. It's like I do such a bad job interviews that out that

3 (11m 2s):
it's you know, it's like what do we have to lose

2 (11m 6s):
Mark

3 (11m 7s):
was anything but apologetic about the stuff that leaked out to case, you know, all the content that's in there. We stand behind

1 (11m 13s):
right and and this is all stuff that you know you have Guys selling a little bit more unfiltered of away than I would externally but fundamentally. It's like we believe everything that we said it was in

3 (11m 21s):
there and Elizabeth Warren came up again. He's made some

2 (11m 24s):
statements about her in the past. And how are you going to stay impartial to what you know, she continues to say about Facebook and still using our platform. All right. Well, let's try not to antagonize her further

3 (11m 41s):
this time kind of conveniently marked in have much to say that was new and interesting but here's something interesting. This country has all sorts of regulations against monopolies in a minute. We'll figure out how companies like Facebook managed to bypass them this today

1 (11m 56s):
explained.

3 (12m 56s):
Matthew yglesias AKA Mateo Church Vox weeds. How did all of these huge tech companies get so big when we obviously have you know, a whole textbook full of antitrust laws. Yeah. So one of the big changes is that over time starting in the 1970s continuing in the 80s and 90s the legal Doctrine covering antitrust really changed from a sort of holistic, but slightly vague concept of what protecting competition meant to a very narrow focus on consumer welfare, which in practice really just meant prices paid by consumers. So that meant that when you got to a free service like Facebook wants to buy a free service like Instagram.

3 (13m 36s):
Well, it's all free when Google buys YouTube it's all free. So there's no harm to prices and that's a different way of thinking about antitrust law then we had had in the past and it's been very important in the technology industry. So this isn't like your cable bill that you get every month versus the other cable company. This is something that was all from Begin with and thus it just exists in some legal gray area well and it stays free right it's true, you know people could say when Airlines merge, well, maybe there will be less competition. And I mean, they'll charge higher airfares. Yeah. That's what current antitrust Doctrine looks to when Facebook bought Instagram and Facebook bought WhatsApp. They didn't use that to jack up the price Google web search still free Gmail is free, sir.

3 (14m 19s):
So, you know antitrust law really sort of gives a green light to all kinds of mergers in that industry. So then what's the argument that these companies are monopolies to begin with so, you know a guy like Tim Wu who's a progressive law professor one of the sort of Originators of net neutrality Ken rogoff is a right of Center Economist. They say that if we take a more holistic, look at what competition means that you see things like when diapers.com entered the market Amazon sought to really aggressively undercut them on price. And so Amazon was losing money on every diaper it's old, but it was going to drive diapers.com at a business eventually. Diapers.com to sell to Amazon or you look at something like Facebook buying Instagram much less Cutthroat in both cases.

3 (15m 3s):
The concern is that by sort of killing off competing startups or gobbling them up, you're not raising prices, but you're reducing Innovation. You're not letting different kinds of e-commerce Giants come up you're taking advantage of the sort of incumbent Network effects to sort of stomp on or by off all new entrance and you're creating a less Rich competitive Innovative landscape. So given that Elizabeth Warren is the person that seems to be worrying Mark Zuckerberg the most at least in this audio that we heard earlier. How does she frame this argument about monopolies about antitrust and Facebook her particular proposal is to sort of break up these big conglomerates and she means that in two ways one is sort of horizontally you would say and that's just kind of divide Facebook from Instagram from WhatsApp.

3 (15m 50s):
She also wants to divide some of these conglomerates vertically and to say that if your Amazon you can't Running a Marketplace and also selling things on the marketplace that's very important to Google for example, because you go to Google to search in which you find a lot now is not just Google ads but Google's first party products. When's the last time a big breakup like this happened? Should the government has broken up companies occasionally in the past AT&T most famously in the 1980s, but that is a drastic remedy it is difficult to get the courts to agree to that anything Tech related though more recently. So one example, we could look at is the government in the late 90s sued Microsoft and they tried to order a breakup of the company.

3 (16m 33s):
They tried to say that you couldn't be sort of in the operating system business with the windows Monopoly and also selling web browsers and software that went on top of it. The government couldn't get the courts to agree to that but Microsoft agreed to a lot of strict what it's called conduct remedies to basically make it easier for third-party browsers to be used and that's why you know first Firefox and then Google Rome really became popular browsers on Windows desktops and it never became integrated the way mobile Safari is with iPhones. So that attempt with Microsoft didn't even really work in the courts. Do you think this could Zuckerberg thinks this would be terrible for Facebook? Could it be good for people like you and me?

3 (17m 14s):
I think it would clearly be good. If we had real competition in the sort of Facebook e space. I think the question to ask about this is like is that realistic in this kind of online services space because the thing that makes Facebook so compelling right is that's where all your friends are. If your kids soccer team wants to put up a notice some place. They'll put it up on Facebook. You can't single-handedly like opt out of that and say well I'm going to just go use this other hypothetical service that President Warren created the more people use Google the better the data. Google has to make it searches better. So if you try like Google search, they seem like a monopoly they dominate the It but they're also genuinely better than competitors.

3 (17m 58s):
And one reason they're so good is that they have so many users and even if you do some kind of breakup, right? There's going to be a winner in that market and it's in some ways. I think a harder question than even The Break-Up people realize. Hmm. So breaking them up won't be enough. It sounds like it depends what you're trying to accomplish electrical utilities is a good example right there. Just never going to be a world where there's like eight or nine different companies with electrical lines running all over town and you get to pick from whichever utility you like best. So we don't even try to create competition in the electrical utility Market. We try to regulate the utilities. Another thing that's useful to look at is communication regulation from the 1940s and 50s, right when you had broadcast television.

3 (18m 43s):
You couldn't just let anybody open up a television station, right? The signals would interfere with each other. So it was going to be a market with limited competition and you were going to need a special license from the government to have a TV station and then we Elated that industry in particular ways because we were concerned about the health of democracy and we didn't want two or three rich people to be able to buy up all the television stations in the country because they would control the communications environment can have enormous influence on politics. But right now there's only one Google there's only one Facebook and the decisions they make have an incredible impact on the future of media the future of politics swaying election outcomes.

3 (19m 23s):
That's scary to think about and the kind of older fashion broadcast television and Communications regulations might provide a sort of a template for thinking about dealing with that problem. What would regulations on a company like Facebook for example look like we could for example force them to make some of their algorithms publicly available so that we could scrutinize them and at least see what's going on with these kinds of changes. They would say right now like any company. Well, these are Trade Secrets it's going to put us at a competitive disadvantage, right? But if we think that Facebook is so big and it's so menacing and it's hard to compete with it. We wouldn't mind putting them at a disadvantage and we would benefit from more publicity and insight into what's actually happening.

3 (20m 5s):
And if we don't do that right now, of course heading in to another presidential election, what are the consequences of leaving Facebook especially completely unregulated and as big as it is, I'm not going to accuse them of anything, but you could see in that audio right like Mark Zuckerberg. He doesn't want Elizabeth Warren to be president. Her being president would be bad for him. He foresees a lot of litigation. He has the power right now to just like down rank any article that's favorable to her, right and to up rank articles that are critical of her and we would never know that he did it and that's frightening.

3 (20m 47s):
If you own a newspaper website podcast River it is and you want to be relentlessly critical of Elizabeth Warren. Like that's your right. It's a free country, but Facebook has such a dominant position in the distribution of media that their potential ability to swing public opinion on important topics be a vector for political movements is a matter of public concern. But right now we treat it as if it's just like one of many podcasts out there when it's not right like Facebook is by far the most influential force in media right now. It's not really subject to traditional competition of any kind and we are going to need to do something to indicate that this is a matter of public concern and not just up to Mark Zuckerberg and his employees.

3 (21m 42s):
Matthew yglesias writes about the economy and politics at vox.com. I'm Sean Rama's from this is today explained the show is produced in association with Stitcher or part of the VOX media podcast Network. Its executive producer is Irina Gucci. The engineer is a film Shapiro now, I'm hassenfeld Bridget McCarthy. I'm gonna I'll Sati and Halima shop reduce all the episodes and the Mysterious brake master cylinder makes most of the music our friends here at VOX media are conducting an audience survey with the hopes of better serving you up these podcasts you listen to it takes all of five minutes to complete and you can find it at VOX media.com / pods survey pod survey.

3 (22m 25s):
Thanks.