3 (9s):
President Trump appeared at a rally in Lexington Kentucky last night. But this time it wasn't something he said that turned a lot of heads Kentucky Senator Rand Paul stole the show. We also now know the name of the Whistleblower. The Whistleblower needs to come before Congress as a material witness because he worked for Joe Biden at the same time Hunter Biden was getting money from corrupt oligarchs. I say tonight to the media do your job and print his name.

3 (51s):
The president was impressed. Wow, that was Challenge. Thank you. President Trump likes a sure thing when he goes to a ball game in DC. He gets booed when he visits California. He forgets the name of the town. He's visiting but when he speaks at one of his rallies, the crowd is willing to go wherever he wants. Sometimes they'll even go a step or two further. The president has been holding his rallies since 2015 and winning the presidency didn't stop him.

3 (1m 31s):
Heading into the 2020 election. We wanted to find out what it

1 (1m 35s):
is about these rallies that keeps people coming back and to help with that. We found an expert the short answer is I've been to over 50 rallies. This is Mike bender and he covers the White House for the Wall Street Journal. The long answer there is I only realized that by interviewing people at the rallies and talking to them about some of their favorite moments and some of their favorite rallies and as they were telling me about these moments. I was kind of like, oh, yeah. I was at that one. Yeah, I saw you. It was at that one too, and then all of a sudden it's like oh crap. I've been over 50 rallies. So I've been to a lot of them. Yeah almost as many as Donald Trump may be naked. Yeah. It's true.

3 (2m 11s):
Mike says that the Trump rallies aren't a sideshow there his entire campaign. So I asked him to take us to one

1 (2m 27s):
a trump rally is a multi-day event for a lot of The campaign announces a rally maybe a week or two ahead of time and you RSVP for a ticket and the trick is you have to get there in time to get let in before the fire marshal shuts it down and so a lot of people will have started to show up hours in advance sometimes even days in advance to deal with the parking to deal with the crowds to deal with the security and then you get into an arena that is just full of people. Maybe the best analogy is like a WWF event professional wrestling

3 (3m 4s):
event. Pretty soon ladies and gentlemen boys and girls get your peanuts and popcorn inside

1 (3m 11s):
people won't have their characters. They want to cheer for they know the story line and it's basically the same kind of maybe dozen or so songs that are kind of on repeat. You know, you have Hey Jude from the Beatles

3 (3m 26s):
Hey, Jude gets played at Trump rallies.

1 (3m 28s):
Hey, Jude gets played at Trump rallies Tiny Dancer Elton. John gets played. Yeah. And for me, it's not really a trump rally until I hear Sympathy for the Devil from the Rolling Stones turned up all the way to 11. I had no idea. Yeah. Yeah and as Mick now there is a long list of songs where Trump has been asked not to play. Yeah, a lot of them. He plays anyway, really? Yeah, that doesn't surprise you doesn't

3 (4m 5s):
actually Because I figured they could do it. But but that of

1 (4m 7s):
course it starts to not surprising. Yeah, so there's no opener. There's no preshow entertainment. They have started also, they'll bring in family members Donald Trump

3 (4m 16s):
jr. The one thing he was wrong about was he said that you would be sick of all the winning. Are you sick of winning yet? Eric Trump. We're going to say Merry Christmas. Again. We are saying Merry Christmas

1 (4m 29s):
again and the Mike Pence will give kind of a few minute warm up

3 (4m 32s):
America needs. Me four more years of President Donald Trump.

1 (4m 40s):
Then the Trump show which is basically is running about 90 minutes now and you know kind of all the greatest hits

3 (4m 49s):
many times I said we would drain the swamp and that's exactly what we're doing right now. We're draining the swamp. By the way, that is a lot of fake news back there. That's all. What do you think? It is about this environment that can get people to

1 (5m 23s):
chant lock her up or drain the swamp or especially sent her back. I think for a lot of the folks who are at these rallies and care enough about Trump and his presidency in this movement to show up hours before rally are certainly to attend multiple rallies and you're With ten thousand five thousand kind of like minded people and you know again not unlike Ohio State Buckeye game where you sort of like brings together, like all these people from different walks of life. But all with a shared interest. I think they also get really swept up in the moment. I talk to about a dozen people who were outside that Trump rally in North Carolina beforehand and it was that racist tweet from Trump who said that the for women Democrats from Congress should quote unquote go back.

1 (6m 13s):
To where that came from, even though they're all American citizens three of the four of them have been were born in the country and to a tea every single one of these people outside said no. No, I would never use that kind of language to disparage a minority, but then two hours later, they're all inside the arena and participated in a chant that mirrored that

3 (6m 33s):
language. Did you talk to any of the people who actually chanted it afterwards? Yeah, and what did they

1 (6m 40s):
say? They blamed it on themselves. Hmm. They said this isn't the president's fault. He didn't tell us the channet. We did it. We embarrass them. Oh, right because Trump came out and distanced himself from those rally crowds. I disagree with it, by the way, but it was quite a chant and I felt a little bit badly about it and they took that message to yeah, I mean they were like, this is on us, it's our fault. We embarrassed them, which is pretty striking to hear

3 (7m 8s):
send her back was surprising shocking even

1 (7m 11s):
The president had to correct course after but as someone

3 (7m 14s):
who's been 250 of these things are so what's the most surprising thing? You've seen that rally

1 (7m 20s):
the most surprising thing so far is the people I've met who have attended 30 40 50 Trump rallies. They call themselves The Front Row Jose, who are these front row Jose who shows up to 50 Trump rallies other than me. They're mostly white. A lot of them are. Only retired so mobile they're almost all paycheck to paycheck a lot of veterans on disability who you know will load up the minivan and the folding table and deep cycle battery that powers their camping stove and their electronics and we'll come and get there early and even though their disability checks are their entire income they've signed up so that five dollars every month gets Auto deducted from their disability check to go to the Trump.

1 (8m 12s):
Israelis are announced with very short notice. So it puts the airfare Out Of Reach For A lot of people but they'll figure out who's going who they can carpool with and if they can share hotel rooms and they'll share hotel rooms in the sense of they'll show up two days early, but then Libby will wait in line with the lawn chairs in the cooler as well. April is back napping at the hotel and when the gates opened up, you know, make sure you're out of the way because it's a it's a mad rush for that for the doors. What do you think it is that keeps the front row Joe's coming back for a

3 (8m 44s):
show that you've

1 (8m 45s):
noted is oftentimes pretty

3 (8m 48s):
similar to the show. They saw the

1 (8m 49s):
last time. Yeah. Definitely. I mean there is a sort of like old-time Tent Revival aspect to these rallies and the sort of ritual of it and there's a certain validation to it to I mean for a lot of trump supporters and especially the front row Joe's they were among the first people in America to is the residence of Trump's political message and they were right they picked a horse early on stuck by him and they won and all of the people I talked to the one thing they talk about is the energy they get from these rallies and it's kind of psychic cleansing that comes from 90 minutes of participating in the same chance and cheering the same Applause lines as 20,000 other people like-minded people that they a lot of them don't get Get out of their normal daily lives, you know, there is a certain kind of loneliness that some of these people have coming into a rally would and talked to one woman who who said that Trump has sort of changed her life in terms of the confidence that it gives her and the sort of see Trump's brashness.

1 (10m 0s):
You know, she says she's more willing to speak up at work and in interactions in her day-to-day life that she took from going to Trump rallies and watching him perform.

3 (10m 15s):
Hello, this is Shawn. Can you hear me? Yes I can show and how are you? I'm doing well. How are you? Good. Thank you very much. Your name is Jean. Yes, Jean Huber Gene Huber. Where you from Gene originally Long Island, New York, but now I do live in West Palm Beach, Florida 15 minutes away from Allah go President. Trump's actually new residence. All right, it's Monday November 4th, and you've been basically standing in a line since Saturday. Where are you? Oh, I'm at the beautiful rally here in Lexington, Kentucky. I'm looking at at least ten thousand plus people with smiles hugs and just loving each other waiting to see our wonderful president. You sound like you like the president.

3 (10m 56s):
Yes, I do and absolutely and I'm not sure if you're familiar with my story. So if I could explain it really quick, I would love for you to explain your story Gene. Absolutely on February 18th. 2017. Okay, I was doing interviews just like this and President Trump was on Air Force One coming to the rally in, Melbourne, Florida. Ada and he saw me on his TVs. So now 30 minutes into the rally he pointed me out. That's my guy right there. And he said come here. Come here. I ran up the stage. I gave all president a hog, and I spoke to the world. Mr. President. Thank you sir. We the people all movement.

3 (11m 37s):
Is the reason why our president of the United States is standing here in front of us today? How many Trump rallies have you been to this is my 18th rally now that I've attended my last rally was just in Mississippi. I drove all the way here to Kentucky and here I am today. So 18 rallies. I hear they're kind of similar. They play the same music the president comes out and sometimes he talks about pretty much the same things. I'm but I'm wondering like when you hear the same kind of talking points, you know build the wall lock her up. Yeah kinds of chance over and over is what keeps you coming back. Right. That's what I tell the folks like the people that are there for the first time at the rally.

3 (12m 20s):
I say listen, we're going to be chanting lock her up. We're going to be chanting build the wall and we say CNN sucks. Okay, you know, it's funny Jean you talk about all the love and the hugs and the positivity and the support but then the three things you're excited about chanting at these Trump rallies lock her up build the walls. CNN sucks. They're all kind of negative. Of things you notice that no, not at all. They're not negative because crooked Hillary deserves to be in jail for what she's done to this country and all the lies and all the things with their emails we can go on and on now build the wall. Okay. All president is protecting America.

3 (13m 2s):
Okay, we're not having these illegal aliens coming in stealing our jobs bringing in the drugs over the border and CNN sucks because they lie. We don't listen to the news all poles. The tens of thousands of people is all poles for We the People Movement Gene. I wonder how you feel about the president calling the leadership of Ukraine and asking for help getting political dirt on one of his opponents. Is that something that you think he did for this country? That's absolutely false because you heard the president in the Mississippi rally now, I'm an honest person anyway, but do you think what I'm making a call to a newly elected president of a country that I would say something improper when I know there are so many people listening on the line as many people.

3 (13m 49s):
Do you think he's gonna do something like that? He even brought the recording back to show what he said Gene. I read the transcript. He released it. He's asking for help. He's investigating his political opponent in advance of an election Gene and it's what the White House released. I don't need CNN. I saw it in the transcript exactly. You know what whatever the tramps hurt says. It is not a problem with us. There's going to be no impeachment. They have nothing else better to do to waste their time. Taxpayers time we have no issues with the president. We believe him and is nothing more the expect from him. Okay, you know just again on the the sort of positivity aspect. I want to ask you about a couple of things. I have noticed at Trump rallies.

3 (14m 30s):
One thing I saw was of course the send her back Chan, but even long before that and in 2016, you saw people who were protesting the rallies and bringing a different Viewpoint. You saw them physically attacked and you saw them pushed out. Out and booed out of these campaign events. Do you think those kinds of behaviors are acceptable? Well, now you're talking about folks that were in the rally that shouldn't have been there and causing some issues. Is that what you're asking about two different things. I'm talking about people exercising their First Amendment right to protest a politician and I'm also asking sure about a room full of people chanting send her back about an American politician and a naturalized citizen of this country.

3 (15m 15s):
Absolutely. Send the back. I agree with it. I mean if you're against his country and you're lookin to hurt this country send the back, I don't think anyone was trying to hurt the country Gene. Is there anything President Donald Trump could do that would make you abandon him Gene nothing nothing because he would do nothing to that to make that even come close to happening. You know, Jean you're saying that there's nothing the president could do to lose your vote. Reminds me of when the president himself was running for office in 2016 and said I have the most loyal people did you ever see that where I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn't lose any voters.

3 (15m 59s):
Okay. It's like incredible. Would that change your mind if the president shot an innocent person on Fifth Avenue the he's not gonna shoot nobody and I can guarantee you that so we will have no worries about that. Okay, but just to be clear here if he did would you still support him? Would I still support the president? Absolutely not. So there is a line Gene. Who would you know, I mean, seriously, I mean if my father shot somebody on Fifth Avenue, I'm going to have no respect for my father ever again. That is just such a ridiculous question. I quite honestly have to say okay.

3 (16m 39s):
What do you think you'll do if he loses in 2020 nothing because it's going to be a landslide and it's going to be unbelievable guaranteed mark my words you sound kind of like him there. I'm from, New York. You better believe it. Well, I just want to say a very big hello, Kentucky. Mike do you think the president needs these

1 (17m 8s):
rallies just as much as his front row Joe's to absolutely I have no doubt about that because he loves them and how they factored into his re-election campaign. The rallies were a central piece of the 2016 campaign and they are going to be Central again in 2020. They're effectively going to be the only campaigning he does and they provide not as much free media as they did four years ago, but still a lot of local free media a trump rally in North Carolina or Wisconsin or Michigan will drive local news for better part of a week.

1 (17m 48s):
It just Trump in the headlines. Yeah. I have a Battleground state. And they are collecting hundreds of thousands of pieces of data on these rally goers that will still use to push everyone to the polls in November 2020.

3 (18m 4s):
I wonder if this time around we're going to see the same kind of

1 (18m 8s):
vitriol at these rallies that we saw in

3 (18m 10s):
2016 or if these things could get even worse. I mean

1 (18m 15s):
these rallies have been hostile to people perceived as Outsiders. Yeah, I definitely felt that in 2016 and there have been moments since he's been elected. There was nervous about a rally environment or what it might be like I do think just sort of step back a little bit. It was the same sort of feelings. I had covering Sarah Palin's Vice. In

3 (18m 34s):
2008 now, I so appreciate all of you coming out tonight.

1 (18m 38s):
This is where she had really tapped into an anti media message that resonated with a lot of people I'd ask him to sing one

3 (18m 47s):
more song for us. The left-wing liberal media have always been a real close-knit family. But most of the American people don't believe in many

1 (19m 4s):
ways. It was the first time I went to a political rally and kind of looked for the exits of where I you know, made sure I knew where to go and how to get out if things got too crazy.

3 (19m 13s):
I mean, but that pales in comparison to what we've seen in the past few years, right? I

1 (19m 17s):
mean President Trump retweets these memes of people

3 (19m 21s):
shooting up, An n and NPR and even Vox he's hostile towards the media and his opponents at his rallies.

1 (19m 28s):
I think one thing that is definite is that Trump has changed the way candidates campaign for president. I mean, we saw Elizabeth Warren get tens of thousands of people in New York and you know thousands and thousands of people on the west coast. I think these are real tangible changes in how people will be expected to campaign and show Support right? I mean Obama brought out big crowds, but in like big moments, you know speech in Berlin his acceptance speech when he sang Amazing Grace and in South Carolina, right? Yeah, they were all kind of leading up to moments and where Trump every single rally is 15,000 people, you know, every couple weeks.

1 (20m 11s):
Yeah, and I don't know how the Democrats are going to replicate that this time around and it's going to be a constant question for them. How is Joe Biden really going to be Trump if he's Only bring out a few hundred people at a time. How is Elizabeth Warren matching up with Trump if she can get big crowds every couple of months. Yeah, and you know for good or bad, I think that's changed the way we can nights are going to run for a while. I mean, there is a theory that this is not good right that the way you get big crowds is by throwing out red meat to your base and sort of further dividing the country or segmenting the country into far right or far left, you know, and you're not going to get sort of by definition 20,000 people show up for a message of I can work with the other side.

1 (20m 53s):
All right, or to hear about your Medicare Plan exactly like that doesn't filter down to it an easy chant. And do you think if Trump loses

3 (21m 2s):
in November of 2020 that's sort of

1 (21m 3s):
like the end of the political involvement of this tribe of the front Road Jose of this disaffected group of people who attend these rallies and transfer chance. I think it's a really good question of what happens if he loses the Trump base and really what is now the Republican Artie I don't think he just hands over all of that attention and these voters to the Republican party what he does with it. I don't know but I'm not sure it would just transfer to the next Republican candidate unless it was Donald Trump jr. I think Trump's base will stick with him whatever he wants to do and support him.

1 (21m 43s):
I mean that, you know twenty to thirty percent of the country pretty narrow slice, but still pretty valuable. Mike Bender covers the White House for the Wall Street Journal. I'm Sean Rama's firm and

3 (22m 2s):
this is today

1 (22m 4s):
explained.