2 (0s):
It's Tuesday, April 28th, and they are now officially more than 1 million covid-19 cases in the United States. I'm Sean Rama's firm. And this is your coronavirus update from today explained testing Remains the biggest barrier between where we are and where we'd like to be in this country on Monday. The president said the United States would double testing but it looks like double of not nearly enough is still just not nearly enough the president appears to be doing everything in his power to keep the be in BLT. According to Bloomberg the news Outlet not the billionaire President Trump is expected to invoke the defense production act in order to mandate meat production plants stay open and Supply are bees with all those crucial meets.

2 (47s):
I guess this comes after Factory shutdowns and mounting reports of plant worker deaths due to covid-19. Apparently the government plans to guarantee additional protective gear for employees, but unions and activists are not Happy some are going as far as to call the plan a death sentence will talk more about the nation's food supply on tomorrow's show treasury secretary. Steven minuchin says that large companies getting more than two million dollars from the small business bailout fund will be audited and could face criminal liability. His announcement comes after a public outcry about big old companies like Shake Shack and the Los Angeles Lakers benefiting from the program to be fair both Shake Shack and the Lakers have said they will Return the money they got if you can't wait to see the Lakers back in Action.

2 (1m 34s):
You might have to figure out how to wait Brad Pitt look-alike and the nation's go-to guy on infectious diseases. Dr. Anthony falchi told the New York Times that it's still a little too early to bring back athletes for competition the NBA and Major League Baseball have been trying to figure out a way to make Sports work and the NBA's telling players they can train and receive treatment at Team buildings. If it isn't violating local stay-at-home orders beginning May 8th. Is that an unfair advantage to teams who can go to these facilities? Probably and did you know that planes are still flying JetBlue just announced all passengers will need to wear masks or face coverings while up in the air. It's the first major US Airline to implement such a rule, but it's well behind the rest of the planet on that.

2 (2m 19s):
The rule will be enforced starting May 4th, May the 4th and may the mask be with you. Support for the show today comes from a new one. It's shippo shippo wants to help you streamline your eCommerce shipping operation and they're trusted by over a hundred thousand companies, like tufton needle and Etsy and more and for our listeners right now. They're offering their best discount available anywhere get a shipping consultation and a ship. Oh Pro Plan six-month trial for free at go shippo.com. Blind shippo it's like hippo with an s.

2 (3m 17s):
The Curious thing about this historical moment. We're living through right now is just how easy it is to forget that this is also historic right? Like when you're worried about your family and your job and being safe. When you go to the grocery store. It's easy to forget that the world's never seen anything quite like this before just think about India for a Something like 1.4 billion people are on lockdown. How do you even do that? I asked Professor or find nourideen. He's the director of Georgetown University's India initiative.

1 (3m 54s):
Essentially. There are three phases to the lockdown strategy. The first was true in any place that took the seriously was to shut down economic activity to make sure that all unnecessary non-essential contact was kept to an absolute minimum. The second is to Begin to think about how to reopen in a gradual and measured manner the economy and Society so that people can return to to work to return to their normal lives. But with Incredible amounts of testing contact tracing and isolation of anyone diagnosed with the disease and the final is getting to a mass vaccination program that can be implemented across the length and breadth of the country in India's case.

1 (4m 35s):
That's 1.4 billion people that would need the vaccine and Of course, I'm doing and rebuilding the damage from the Damage Done in the previous two phases because there's no way to get out of those first two phases that out. A lot of people having to make incredible amounts of sacrifice. But the idea is that if you do that, right you get to phase 3 sooner than you would have read

2 (4m 58s):
it. So let's dig into the three phases of bit more. So phase one obviously has been implemented a spoken about it on the show before India has locked down 1.4. Four billion people. How did the country even go about doing that? The

1 (5m 14s):
very first thing that the country did was begin to use the international airports as a way of restricting the entry of the virus into the country. So it was very much a model in which the threat was seen as imported cases coming from abroad India has a large diaspora population that works all over the world that may have been exposed and inadvertently bringing it back in and so the airport became the first line of defense for While it seemed like that was going to be

2 (5m 42s):
enough. The Health Ministry has issued an advisory to the civil aviation Ministry to conduct health screening of passengers arriving at airports in Kolkata Delhi and Mumbai from China

1 (5m 54s):
as more and more evidence of appear that they had been Community transmission of the virus. They had to ask

2 (6m 0s):
Nate. Who did they show me either Akbar emergency some point. They should make some portal of down

1 (6m 10s):
holiday the Prime Minister announced a nationwide. eight lock down 1.4 billion people told to stay home for three weeks that has since been extended for at least another couple of weeks such that India now is under lockdown at least through the first week of me and

2 (6m 29s):
and my estimation is that is something truly unlike the world has ever seen before is that

1 (6m 36s):
true it is, you know, if you think of the two countries that have experienced coronavirus over this last four months that Resemble the size of scale of India those would have to be China and the United States in China the very early isolation of the virus in Hubei Province, but other parts of China were not placed under the same sub tractor in the United States, of course, as we are watching right now, we still have states that haven't been in for stay-at-home orders. So what India did was something that neither China or the United States attempt the chose to do a nationwide lockdown? point four billion people across the board

2 (7m 19s):
And what does that mean for the 1.4 billion people? I mean what have the implications been so far?

1 (7m 25s):
Well on the one hand I supposed to give the government credit for making a very difficult decision. It has meant that the Keith kountz have not risen as quickly as they would have in the absence of this lockdown, but the real issue has been for the lockdown to her work as effectively as it could have or should have other Bots needed to be in place. So for one thing this appears to have not been any plan for what to do with the large numbers of migrants. Well Coast who lined India's city streets who live on the outskirts to live in densely populated slums many of whom reacted to the announcement of the lockdown by beginning to walk home to go back to the Villages and small towns from which they had come the plight

2 (8m 9s):
of the poor Urban migrants last night when I was driving home from work. I saw a steady stream of people on the expressway trying to just make their way back home. Look at some of those pictures that that is exactly what you're I know why you are so many people just so close to each other. They have no more means of Transport. Some of them are holding their babies on an old parents with them. This was

1 (8m 36s):
the second largest human migration in the history of Independent India the biggest being partition. So literally we had millions of Migrant workers leaving cities to go home potentially taking the virus back to places that it had not already been.

2 (8m 51s):
Hmm. And in addition to all the potential Community spread their it's going to be pretty complicated to undo this Mass migration this historic shut

1 (9m 5s):
down. Its when we complicated and every time create that attempts this but in India's case It's Complicated by two very important factors. That might be of interest to your listeners one. Of course is that in that Phase 1. The 80 some percent of India's Workforce that works in Informal sector and often relies on daily wages in order to make ends meet hundreds of millions of people who needed that food and can only purchase food if they can work on a given day. So when you tell them no work for three weeks that is not just that a not is difficult. That is the difference between life and death for hundreds of millions of people and will only know the full toll of that when we finally get out of the space that can actually do a proper accounting beyond that the formal A sector of the economy has taken a significant hit remember that India was entering 2020 with the economy already struggling and what we're now going to have there's a possibility of a year in which we have zero growth maybe even negative growth depending on how bad it goes.

1 (10m 7s):
We might have Banks failing will help businesses go out of business and India simply does not have the fiscal Firepower that the United States can marshal for instance in putting massive stimulus bill of bills in place. The question of course is whether in Off of the formal economy can be resuscitated such that eventually the economy begins to Boom a final consideration over here is that there's a lot of pressure on government to open sooner than it might be advisable and what that of course leads to a concerned that they'll be a massive outbreak again in the summer, which will simply send India back to where it is

2 (10m 45s):
right now. I mean even more so than the United States. I wonder how is India getting money to people to migrant workers who are now without any sort of financial Source. I mean, these are people who don't have bank accounts in some cases can't read. How do you distribute stimulus? If at all

1 (11m 6s):
shot on says you can't I mean what the government can do and this is thanks to the efforts over the last decade of building a unique identification. The hard our system and a really significant effort to digitize finances to make bank accounts more accessible to lot more people than once were that the proportion of Indian citizens will have a unique ID and that's linked to a bank account as much greater today than it was 10 years ago. So the government will be able to deliver five thousand rupees 3000 rupees that's you know, fifty seventy dollars worth of stimulus money but for the vast Vast majority of India including all those migrant workers.

1 (11m 49s):
Those are not

2 (11m 50s):
options days to sound so enormous. I imagine it's hard to even fathom phase 3 implementing vaccinations for over a billion people.

1 (12m 1s):
Yeah. So phase 3 is essentially long run and though the real challenges that we have no idea what the dance to get. There will be right. I mean we can't get to phase 3 if we haven't reduced community. Virtually to single digits are zeros. And unless there's a vaccination program Insight that will allow for actual return to normalcy. Phase 3 is going to require therefore that you know International Supply chains are mobilized to make sure that vaccines get in affordable ways to though the vast majority of people.

1 (12m 42s):
It's a global vaccination campaign of a scale. We've never tried Indians actually uniquely positioned as one of the big producers of pharmaceuticals for the world. And so hopefully India is under the first recipients of that when it comes but beyond that I think there are some

2 (12m 59s):
really deep structural

1 (13m 0s):
issues that Threes when I have to deal with this has exposed what happens in a large country and that Q eighty percent of the workforce is in the informal sector without any protections whatsoever. It exposes what happens and communalism and caste discrimination go rampant because people in a crisis find scapegoats and so even in the midst of a moment where we should be working together with solidarity to be highest rates of anti-muslim violence rates of anti lower cost. Just discrimination and violence are actually increasing and you know, all of this then of course leads to the other phase three question around the world, which is how do all the surveillance and technological measures implemented to fight Phase 1 and Phase 2 survived into that new phase.

1 (13m 51s):
But now repurposed what privacy rights have been given up that will undermine the quality of democracy when we finally come out of it. So right now like most of I have a hard time seeing past phase one. I can begin to imagine the glimmers of phase 2, but if we really are talking about getting back to normal phase 3 is critical and it's the one that we have the most time to plan for so we should be thinking hard about what we want that will to look like when we finally get there.

2 (14m 36s):
It's not only bad news in India. There's a bright spot. It's called Kerala that's after the break on today

4 (14m 43s):
explained.

2 (14m 57s):
You know that feeling when you're trying to relate your like innermost deepest feelings about this pandemic to your friend on like Instagrams video chat, but you can tell she's just waiting to like watch coronavirus explained on Netflix the second you hang up if you want to get some help from someone who's not waiting to watch coronavirus explained on Netflix, maybe check out better help they offer licensed professionals who can talk to you about your stress anxiety isolation depression. They To make sure that you feel that you are not alone. You can connect with your counselor in a safe and private online environment. And anything you share is confidential to get started you simply fill out a questionnaire to help assess your needs and get matched with the counselor in less than 24 hours.

2 (15m 41s):
After that. You can easily schedule secure video or phone sessions and exchange a whole heap of messages better help is Affordable and right now listeners get 10% off your first month with the discount code explained go to bed. ER help.com explain that's better HVLP.com explained to get started. Shoutouts to my e-commerce famine the house if you're running some e-commerce business, you don't want shipping times to sink you and luckily for you. We have shippo shippo is an online shipping software that you're growing business can literally dive into today explained you just connect your online store to Chabot and they'll sort through more than 50 global.

2 (16m 35s):
To get you the best possible rate for your shipping ship out automatically pulls in your orders. So all you have to do is Click print and ship and they're linked up with over a hundred thousand companies right now. You could be one hundred thousand and one check it out for our listeners right now. They're offering their best discounts available anywhere. Thanks shippo get a shipping consultation and shippo Pro Plan 6-month trial for free at go shippo. a.com explained that's up to a seven hundred dollar value apparently for free at go shippo.com explain ship Outlets like hippo with an s My name is shakeel Khan.

2 (17m 27s):
I live in India in Kerala. That is the state where I live in its south of India and in coaching. It's near to the Arabian Sea. So it's a Seaside town. I work for India tourism. I lead for into our groups in India. Of course, if you are hearing any noise, that is my young one who is four years. It is his time to watch his cartoon. He's watching some of the cartoon channels in Kerala in my particular town in ernakulam, which is in question. If we have to get food log down conditions permit grocery stores to open with strict conditions.

2 (18m 9s):
They are allowed to open from say nine o'clock to five o'clock. It all depends upon how serious the covid pandemic has spread in that area. So careless government has categorized zones into green zone orange Zone and Red Zone and above and all of that. They have also categorized hot spots when those places people are not allowed to go out unnecessarily now in case if we are expressed feeling any symptoms of covid, then there are recognized covid testing centers, and then there are health workers who would Victor how you are doing a quarantine at home and your name and your location and your house is registered in the local Authority and they will send a health worker every day to your house to see how you are doing it.

2 (19m 5s):
If you are not a serious symptomatic patient, they will call you every day to check out things are going the information from the government is pass through Us in various forms of communication systems. First of all is social media The police force of Kerala they have an official Facebook page where they are sending messages and then there is what's up group, but that is all for people who has a smartphone every day. The chief Minister's office is giving you the information at a particular time. Every evening. Everyone is watching that in Kerala. Then when we had our first lockdown announcement, Kerala police had announced it on a public announcement system and they will go through every village announcing it.

2 (19m 51s):
So there are various ways. The messages are coming through we are all connected. Now, we are all affected. So let us all take at least this few months. Let us sacrifice all our pleasures of socializing and going out so that we can enjoy it more better in the later days. Professor it sounds like Carol has handling this a lot better than other parts of India

1 (20m 16s):
completely in India. Right now. We have glaring examples of both examples for what the rest of the world could be doing and should be doing the state of Kerala has arguably not just flattened the curve but shattered it it was one of the earliest states in India to have cases this one into action case counsel State extremely low fatalities are even know. Then what might be expected and then are being witness in other parts of the world and yet in other states in North India. We are seeing a very different response because the government didn't do what they should have been doing

2 (20m 56s):
how amongst all of this to Kerala managed to successfully flatten its curved to successfully Implement a lockdown

1 (21m 4s):
channel of is unique all staying in States and that it is since Independence and even prior has had strong worker movements that led to the creation of what we think of as a social democracy within the union constitutional framework its government as a communist government one that is getting more in the spirit of a social democratic system what this means is that the investments in public health systems in Kerala has been higher than the national average by a couple of points for the last 70 years. That is an Legacy a set of Investments that they can now benefit from but if I was going to point to a single thing it is said in Kerala, they used a whole-of-government approach from the get-go the moment the first case was reported in Kerala, the chief minister convened a state response team that coordinated 18 different functional teams.

1 (22m 3s):
They held daily press conferences. They communicated with the public on a daily basis. They leverage the fact that India's bureaucratic system the famous Indian administrative service, but also the state equivalence have outposts and representatives in every village across the country. But of course in Carroll as well kill Communications and investments in the public system in that bureaucracy the faith in the bureaucracy, the technocratic capacity of the bureaucracy was harnessed by the chief minister so that you had a whole-of-government approach is a docking with

2 (22m 39s):
one voice. So is everyone else in India looking at Caroline saying let's go there.

1 (22m 49s):
That's the frustration with the Carol example writers like the one hand we all might want to live in Norway and wonder why our countries can be more like, you know that or like Kerala and but it's not the kind of fix that can be done overnight. That should make us hopeless. I think there's if there's a single lesson to be learned from the Carol example, is that state governments make choices about where they are. Invest their resources how much of their budget is allocated to things like education help social services and admittedly governments, especially in a poor country like India have to make hard choices between different things they could spend their money on Kerala right now is evidence of what good can come when you choose to spend it on Healthcare

2 (23m 39s):
and as this virus becomes an increasing concern in South America in Africa. Africa which to this point have still been largely spared? What do you think the so-called Global South can learn from

1 (23m 52s):
India? The main thing I think is when both be that when the government speaks with one voice as the central government did in enforcing the lockdown citizens will even if reluctantly even if painfully will adhere to it, but it requires an unequivocal endorsement of the advice of Public Health authorities that social distance Is not optional it is necessary. The challenge for the global South is not that different than the challenge in the global North in terms of enforcing lockdowns and bearing their economic front. And if you can't have a plan in place to do those simultaneously you undermine the efficacy of the hard difficult decision to make a lockdown in place.

1 (24m 40s):
Not only are people more likely to break. It not only are people more likely to grow impatient and unwilling to cooperate long, but people will actually die because it simply don't have access. S to the food and medicines required for them to survive.