3 (0s):
Every week people tweet at me. They tweeted the show they email us and they say hey, can you explain this thing and can you explain that thing and we really want to know more about this thing over here. And the truth is we really want to explain it all but we only get to make five shows a week and it's pretty hard to do just that so we don't get to everything and that is why I am so glad that reset exists. Now, it's the show that we just launched from Vox and recode all about technology comes out. Three times a week on Tuesdays and Thursdays and Sundays because there are so many stories related to technology that we just never get to and today we're going to bring you one of those stories a story that we wanted to cover but just never got to but reset did and they did it in a really beautiful and thorough way.

3 (49s):
It's all about Instagrams nipple ban. And if you have no idea what that is, you're about to if you like what you hear I highly highly recommend you subscribe to reset wherever you listen to your podcast. Episodes of dropping now here we go.

1 (1m 6s):
Hi, I'm Ariel Jim Ross. And this is reset. Today's episode starts in New York City at Instagrams headquarters. The lobby was pretty you know generic and the people at the security desk were really friendly like almost overly friendly like saying hello. Good morning. Hello. Good morning. Like to every single person that walked in Joanne Leah is a Agra forever she was there along with other artists and museum curators

3 (1m 34s):
for a closed-door meeting with

1 (1m 35s):
Instagram whose parent company is of course, Facebook. Everybody had Facebook t-shirts on you walk into kind of a big open space. There's a juice bar. There's a little Library we were in a large conference room. And there were art books staged on the shelves. Really? Yeah. Do you think they were there for your benefit? Oh, yeah. They had one of the more established artists books. On the shelf that was at the meeting which was really funny. There's nothing how many people attended this meeting. It was 20 people from the art community and then I would say like seven people from Facebook and the head of Instagram also stop by I've briefly.

1 (2m 17s):
Okay. So that's like direct contact with with Instagram decision-making. Yeah, it was direct contact, but I guess the meeting sort of started with them kind of like going over what their policies are why they have these policies in place and how they enforce them. Those policies are Instagrams Community guidelines. They dictate which images stay up on the social media platform and which get taken down Instagram is pretty strict about things like nudity which means art gets removed and artists get banned on the regular I make photo-based art of nude bodies.

1 (2m 59s):
So Joanne, Lea's photography and account have been it has been removed uncensored a lot and the meeting with Instagram was to talk about that censorship and the Banning of one specific thing female nipples today. We're diving into the controversial world of Instagram censorship. And yeah, we're going to talk about female nipples because the impact of Instagrams nipple policy is much larger than you might think affecting free expression art and identity censorship affects everybody. D. You know if Instagram is telling you what kind of art you can look at or what kind of books you can read or what kind of podcasts you can listen to Why should they be telling you that why think about that for a second?

1 (3m 40s):
Like there's no reason a company a corporation should be telling anyone what they should and shouldn't look at listen to and read just a heads up here. We'll be talking about nudity and there's some swelling. And in this episode, okay. Okay. Joanne Leah. You're an artist. What kind of art do you make I make images of nude mostly female sometimes trans sometimes male bodies using really bright colors inspired by fetishes and sexuality and sensuality no undergarments, but their genitals and sometimes nipples are covered.

1 (4m 30s):
And in some way the reason that is is because I have to post my images and social media because I'm an artist and social media is very important for artists to be visible. That's the power that Instagram wields over artists the platform which has more than 1 billion users has a chilling effect and Joanne makes decisions about her art based on what's acceptable on social media. My first account was removed in 2015, and I basically had to start over wasn't a User account or anything but it was devastating. You know, it felt horrible. So the body of work that I have now is a direct result from getting that account removed.

1 (5m 10s):
So I started to wonder what I could get away with so I was like, okay, I'm going to use bright colors. I'm going to cover different parts of the body. I'm going to make fake vaginas and like put them in front of real vaginas and see what happens, you know in my work I try to cover up female nipples or any nipples really or I see if the algorithm will Lll tell the difference between a quote unquote male and quote unquote female nipple or anywhere in between it's definitely made me self-censor my work quite a bit what exactly are Instagrams Community guidelines when it comes to nudity no close-up images of human buttocks.

1 (5m 50s):
No nipple female nipples. I don't know how they can tell his nipples are what gender but and no sexual activity. In photography, they do allow nudity and painting and sculpture. So Instagram specifically calls out so-called or what they determined to be female nipples, correct. So you can put up a picture of what looks like the chest of a man and that will be just fine, correct. But if it's what is perceived as being a woman's chest that is not. Okay,

3 (6m 23s):
correct.

1 (6m 26s):
So tell me about this this meeting walk me through it. I can't tell you. Exactly, who is there we had to sign a nondisclosure agreement saying that we wouldn't attribute any quotes to any specific person. I'm telling you that I was there but I can't tell you who else was there unless I have their permission. They had a presentation that explained what their policies are what their mission statement is what their values are. So privacy authenticity safety things like that. They went through all of the engineering and limitations. And then people started voicing their grievances pretty quickly and like offering ideas.

1 (7m 5s):
I know one of the ideas was to have people control the content that they see so if they want to put a filter on their account that says I don't want to see nudity and they won't see nudity. Another idea was to have an image kind of have like a black film over it and you click on it if you want to see graphic imagery. I mean, I think it's coming down to people want to self-censor. Answer and not have Instagram tell them what they can and can't see. So what was what was Instagrams reaction to all of these suggestions their brains were kind of like going in circles a little bit how they would achieve all of these things if they're even possible to achieve but they were definitely open.

1 (7m 48s):
I think it was a really good dialogue. During the meeting did the issue of the female nipple policy did that come up McCall had Braun an artist activist educator. She kept saying how can you tell the difference between a male nipple and a female nipple? Why is it female nipple different than a male nipple and there was just no response at all. Instagram doesn't really have a response as to why they are determining whose nipples are male. And whose nipples are female there only. Responses that it doesn't follow their guidelines. They made a comment about it not aligning with typical values.

1 (8m 30s):
I'm not sure what they meant by that. It was very vague. We basically blamed Society. Correct. Let's say Society broadly does not agree with seeing nipples that we deem to be female. And therefore that is unacceptable on our platform. Correct? Why was this meeting taking place now? Are you the reason that this meeting took place? I don't think that I'm Only reason but and I strongly suggested that they hold a summit meeting. Yes, so I don't want to say that I was the only reason I think I was a part of many reasons back in 2016. Joanne started a change.org petition to stop Instagram from censoring art more than a thousand signatures later Facebook got in touch with her today.

1 (9m 14s):
Joanne is basically an Instagram censorship whisper when an artist gets their post taken down. They reach out to her for help. And she contacts Facebook to get them to reconsider that unofficial system is less than ideal. Joanne doesn't advertise the service. So you just have to be in the know but Instagram has had this nudity policy in place since it launched in 2010 and that's the best solution. Joanne has been able to find so far. That's why this meeting with Instagram feel so significant I think is extremely significant. I mean, I also feel like they might start opening up like this to their users. Often they couldn't give us a deadline of when any of these things would be implemented if at all they did promise that the guidelines would evolve and would change but they didn't say when and how here's the thing Instagram isn't the Internet.

1 (10m 8s):
It's a prominent platform that means a lot to artist but it's just one website and companies can do whatever they want when it comes to censoring speech and art on their platforms. That's entirely legal but Instagram also depends on On its users to keep going so when a bunch of museums and artists with large followings say they want things to change that's a problem for Instagram one that it needs to balance against a bunch of other

3 (10m 32s):
interests. When you let a platform Run free it gets taken over by terrible people. So people will post pornography they'll post a lot of extremely violent imagery, they'll interfere with our elections and people will stop using the platform, right? It doesn't take too much terrible content on a platform to just drive people away. And of course, once you drive people away, then you drive advertisers away and all of a sudden Instagram wouldn't have a business. That's Casey Newton.

1 (11m 6s):
He's the Silicon Valley editor at The Verge and he's reported a ton about Facebook moderation.

3 (11m 11s):
Yes. So if you ever see something on Instagram that you don't think should be there. You can report the post you Tap a button you're asked to specify why you don't think it should be on Instagram. Right? Like maybe you think it's pornographic or its violent or it's bullying or it's spam and then once you do that, it's sent to a Content moderator at one of a couple dozen sites around. The world so an actual human being. Yeah, so the moderator is sitting at a computer and they have kind of Instagrams or Facebook's policies up on one screen and then they have the post on another screen and then they review the post to see whether it meets the guidelines or not.

3 (11m 52s):
And then there are a series of steps that they can take depending on whether it needs to be removed or whether it's more serious and they need to consider Banning the

1 (12m 1s):
account and I've heard a lot of artists also sort of mentioned the Word algorithm right blaming an algorithm for flagging one of their images is that happening on Instagram?

3 (12m 10s):
They do use machine learning to try to catch policy violations before they're sent to human beings. So there's a good chance. If you uploaded an image of like two people having sex for example that they would be able to recognize that using machine learning and flag that immediately

1 (12m 28s):
where does the the female nipple policy come from?

3 (12m 32s):
So they all started the same way. Hit all the platforms, which is basically initially it's done by the co-founders. Somebody posts something bad according to whatever the definition of that is that the co-founder has and they take it down and then once they reach a certain size, they think well gosh, we should really write some rules down and usually one of the very first rules that people write down is no pornography right? It's just very difficult to run an internet business that has porn on it if it's going to be an app and Apple's App Store and particular and so Facebook has long Had anti-porn rules and over the years those have become much more detailed as far as you know, what is considered appropriate versus inappropriate nudity, you know in the United States, it is generally not done to have naked female nipples on display and it's like it's culturally specific to America or I remember going to England as a kid and you pick up newspapers there and there's like a page.

3 (13m 35s):
Three girls, which is this like a topless woman and I was like very scandalized by that as a 15 year old. So because we just have this sort of American cultural norm against female toplessness that Norm got turned into Facebook

1 (13m 49s):
policy Instagram is very much dependent on its users and and the artist that populated with beautiful images. What does the the fact that this meeting took place at all? What does that tell you?

3 (14m 2s):
I think Facebook as a company Is responsive to public pressure. It is a Communications medium essentially and our norms for what is acceptable communication change over time, right Society changes, its values change, you know, when I was growing up you couldn't say the word sucks out loud. I got to trouble for saying sucks that like a school assembly. So, you know, I think the overall trend is society kind of corson's over time. It becomes more permissive over time. And so maybe this is a moment. We're in. Graham is sort of rethinking some aspect of that policy where maybe they think that there are ways that they can permit more art on the platform while still keeping pouring off the platform, but it's a really tricky

1 (14m 47s):
balance. That's that's really interesting because I feel like a lot of this debate comes down to what Instagram deems to be art or not art because it's it feels like right now we're having a discussion about art versus pornography.

3 (15m 1s):
Yes. It's a it is a very difficult question to answer. Answer and Facebook finds itself in these kind of impossible philosophical debates all the time, right? You know, my kind of higher level issue that I take with all of this is none of this would matter if Facebook and Instagram works so big and powerful, right? Like if we had a dozen healthy social platforms where people could post their art it wouldn't feel quite so brought if you know one particular image couldn't be posted on Instagram, but because we don't have meaningful antitrust regulation in this country, The question of what Instagram thinks is Art feels like weirdly super important because these platforms have gotten so large.

3 (15m 45s):
We're now in this sort of unique position where we're trying to apply one standard through the entire world, right? Like one set of community guidelines to apply to a hundred and sixty countries and so it is not surprising that there has been a lot of conflict as a result.

1 (16m 3s):
So far, we've mostly talked about how Instagram censorship policies affect artists, but what if your body is the art that's after the break.

3 (16m 18s):
Hey, it's the middle of the show. You're listening to reset from recode and vaux, but it's coming in your today explain feed just this one time. I know it happened once before but that was a Sunday that was icing on the cake. This is the real deal. Hope you're enjoying the episode. And also while we're at it. Let's just talk about telling friends about podcasts. Like if you're loving this reset episode tell your friends about it because they're probably looking for new podcasts Listen to If You Love Today explained which I know you do tell your friends about the show the elections one. Away, and we plan on kicking ass and taking names every single day until then, but not on the weekends never on the weekends. Thank you for listening.

3 (16m 59s):
Enjoy the rest of this episode of reset. Talk to you soon.

1 (17m 7s):
There's another issue that came up a few times during the meeting with Instagram the misgendering of people who are trans and non-binary as a result of the female nipple policy. That's why I contacted rained of rain is a model who doesn't identify as anyone gender.

3 (17m 23s):
My pronouns are just the sound of me and almost nothing for in the sound is positivity. So you can use whatever you want. He she it one day you can use mergen florigen chicken fluff. I don't really care all I care about was it The intentions that you have as a

1 (17m 38s):
person, so you're a model. You're an artist you're an activist. Have you ever had a picture of yourself band or censored on Instagram? I

3 (17m 47s):
definitely am a person who has had quite a few photos band on Instagram on Facebook on Twitter and of accounts. Like I canceled do, you know my account used to be reined of and now it's rained of model because my original account before my career took off was banned

1 (18m 4s):
what types of images of yourself 10 to be banned or removed from Instagram those images

3 (18m 10s):
tend to do with my body oftentimes. My face doesn't correlate with what you think would have a pair of Double D's or have certain curves and my stature doesn't really reflect what people would think should be wearing the clothing that I wear or doing the things that I do and the images that typically are banned are ones that are showing body body fluids any kind of like large amount of

1 (18m 36s):
skin. One picture that comes to mind when thinking about your interactions with Instagram is an image of you topless drinking milk. Yes. I have seen multiple times that image get removed and then I've seen you repost it and every time you repost it you have sort of a caption that says hey Instagram, I'm not violating your community guidelines. I'm not a woman you want to tell me about that approach? Yeah, of course. Well, the first thing is that I don't think like that anyone should have to

3 (19m 8s):
qualify their right to show their nipples based on if they're male or female. I think if one person is able to show their nipples, we should all be able to show her nipples if one person is not able to show their nipples then nobody should be able to show their nipples and I believe that if you identify as a female you should absolutely have the right to show your nipples a hundred percent but part of the reason why I do this tongue-in-cheek. Hey Instagram, this isn't against your guidelines. I'm not a woman is because at the end of the day like Instagram is a business and so there are Writing within a certain parameter of guidelines and I as a user have gone on and assigned their user group and I agreed to their user agreement. We have a legally binding contract and so I can hit them with feelings and be like this doesn't feel right but feelings don't always get things done because feelings aren't threats.

3 (19m 56s):
But if you fight them with facts, it's not even fighting. It's just coming to the table with a fact like I did sign this agreement. I'm not violating it you're violating. It makes them have to look back at that agreement and say, Wow, maybe we're not as educated in this realm as we thought we were we're going to have to evolve some of our ways of approaching the content that's posted on our

1 (20m 16s):
page. But essentially what Instagram is doing when it removes an image of you where you are topless is misgendering you and I'm wondering what impact has that had on you how does that make you feel? It's

3 (20m 29s):
difficult.

1 (20m 31s):
Because you know and one hand I voluntarily signed up to be on Instagram.

3 (20m 35s):
But at the other hand Instagram does have a global reach and you would hope that when they're dealing with so many people around the world. They would also deal with the complexities that make humans human which is their unique qualities and their expression when people delete my image, it says to me that like that they're lazy,

1 (20m 55s):
they're not doing their homework that they think that standing up

3 (20m 59s):
for. What is always N is more valuable than standing up for me and it's kind of a frustrating thing. It's like they're consistently agreeing with a narrative that I've had to experience all my life, which is that there's that there's something wrong with me. That simply by existing freely and equally to other people

1 (21m 20s):
and sharing the same amount of

3 (21m 22s):
Flesh. I'm harming people. I know that Instagram is a business. You can't blame them for wanting to be safe when you look at it from a business perspective, but I want to let them know that it is safe to allow me to be me online and that it's not it's not a risk to their business and it's up to us to let them know that like It's actually incredibly safe and profitable to allow morals to go over money.

1 (21m 55s):
So you are well known you have a blue checkmark. You have a large following what impact do you think these policies have on non-binary and trans individuals who don't have the voice that you

3 (22m 6s):
have when I look at the world of trans and non-binary individuals and people who have taught who have had Top surgery

1 (22m 15s):
and people like my friend

3 (22m 16s):
Diamond, you know, they just really had Top surgery. They had images really removed because they had you know C cup.

1 (22m 25s):
And then once they got pegs it was the same nipple the same nipple put onto their now flat chest

3 (22m 33s):
and suddenly they can now post topless photos. It's the same nipple same exact thing and it's frustrating it can feel very dehumanizing. It can feel very much like I'm a transaction. I'm not a person

1 (22m 48s):
Instagram met with a group of artists to discuss things like the female nipple policy, but and that meeting wasn't about how Graham has been treating non-binary and trans individuals, right? How does that make you feel, you know, after having your own images be repeatedly removed from the platform. It's hard. I mean

3 (23m 7s):
I want to come at this and just be like Fuck Em fuck em all and I don't want

1 (23m 11s):
to be so mad at the I just feel like

3 (23m 13s):
screw you I'm a person. I'm here like, you know, if somebody can share certain amount of Flesh. I can share a certain amount of Flesh don't you realize that when somebody sees that they're not valid or somebody sees that they been that they can't pass or that they're not good enough for your system or that they're not being seen they feel like maybe they're not being seen worth being seen by anyone and part of me just wants to be so mad and just be like screw you screw you Instagram screw you I know though

1 (23m 43s):
that we have to take that rage that we feel that righteous rage. We need to tell them that like we will be with them if they make these

3 (23m 53s):
changes to support a world that is equal. We need to let them know that we're asking them to step into unknown territory, which is to enter into a world of socio politics and to

1 (24m 3s):
back us and we need to let them know that we got them

3 (24m 6s):
that it's going to be okay

1 (24m 8s):
that they're not going to have to lay off

3 (24m 10s):
thousands of employees because their app is going to crumble because they've decided to take a chance. It's on us but it's scary because all we are just angry, you know, and we need to we need to not just be angry. We also need to be business people because we're dealing with the business. We're not dealing with a human being we're dealing with the business that affects human beings and we conflate it because it has such a big effect on our human experiences. We have

1 (24m 36s):
to let them know that the

3 (24m 37s):
world more connected than ever is evolving at a rate that has never happened before and then if they don't get on this train to evolve with us, Us they're likely to be left

1 (24m 46s):
behind. What do you and other stand to lose if these policies like the female nipple policy don't change

3 (24m 54s):
in many ways what Instagram is doing by playing it safe is their being complicit to a society that says that we should be ashamed of the fact that we are born into a body that we did not choose that we should be ashamed of our

1 (25m 8s):
flesh. They have the

3 (25m 10s):
power. To save lives to bring us into a world which accepts us on an equal footing. And they have the power to be complicit and when they're being complicit they're saying we don't actually care about you. and sometimes a large entity that just says I don't care tells the rest of the world that it's okay not to care either.

1 (25m 45s):
Rained of is an artist a model and actor and an activist rain. Thank you so much for joining me. Thank you very much for having me. I was grateful to be here. We reached out to Instagram to get their take on all of this Stephanie Otway from Facebook told us by email that Instagram hasn't quote committed to any changes yet. When we asked if Instagram would do anything to prevent topless images of non-binary and trans folk from getting banned. Aren't we said that Instagram is a large platform and as a result, its sometimes makes mistakes quote. We're always working to minimize these mistakes and the unintended hurt they can

3 (26m 24s):
cause

1 (26m 32s):
that's it for today's episode of reset. I'm at he has um Ross but you don't have to say it that way. If you want to follow me on Twitter, you can find me at a TRS. You can also reach the reset team by emailing reset at vox.com.

3 (26m 47s):
If

1 (26m 47s):
you haven't already subscribe to the Pod you can find us on Apple podcast Stitcher or in your favorite podcast app, and if you like what you hear give us a five star rating on Apple podcasts. It really helps Skylar Swenson, Martha, Daniel and Wilhelmina. Read produce the show. Our engineer is Eric Gomez gold Arthur is our executive producer Liz. Kelly Nelson is the editorial director of vocs podcasts the mysterious brake master cylinder composed. Our theme music reset is produced in association with Stitcher and were part of the VOX media podcast Network. later nerds