0 (0s):
Remember early Instagram. When you just scroll through cute pictures of your friends, see their dogs, see their travels quietly, appreciate or judge their lives to like, or not to like, that was the only question, but now things are different. Now, Instagram has all these videos

1 (25s):
Went out and got my new nails today.

0 (28s):
Stop it. Go away. Do you

1 (29s):
Smoke? Drink any recreational drug use? Never. Never, never. Wow. I don't

0 (34s):
Even follow you.

1 (36s):
It's Timothy. Chuck,

0 (38s):
Did you just steal that from tick-tock that poor obese dog,

2 (43s):
New the seven hundreds in the trash. These are explosive.

0 (47s):
What happened to Instagram? Coming up on today explained

Cities (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them. The world needs to take action that together cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, health care, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G

Smartsheet (1m 43s):
Process. It's a small word with big implications because whatever an idea starts, a process gets done. It's how big talk drives real action and people achieve their best work at Smartsheet. We're in the process business, the go-to for managers who love pulling in the right combination of data tools and people from across the company to make it happen. One platform, every project, any scale, it doesn't get bigger than that. Smartsheet power, your process visit smartsheet.com forward slash power. Your process

1 (2m 15s):
Today, it's gone to beat explain, see you

5 (2m 21s):
Everyone's bad at Instagram and which isn't really saying much because everyone is kind of always mad at Instagram, but in the past few months, Instagram has made some pretty major changes that just really prioritize on your feed, video and posts from people who you do not follow. You do not know them. They're just random videos that show up in your feed and that it thinks you might want to watch. But this is a big departure from the Instagram that I think a lot of people know and love, which is, you know, a customized feed of people you have, or have chosen to follow versus, you know, something like tick-tock where it just shows you random people and you don't really get a say, which is kind of the joy of it. But in the past few weeks, that chorus has grown much louder at a lot of Instagram's biggest power users are kind of joining in

0 (3m 8s):
Rebecca Jennings, writes about the internet for box. We asked her to tell us the story of Instagram's identity crisis.

5 (3m 15s):
I think it starts when Tik TOK becomes a really, really big deal. And I think we can see a big spike in tech talks, popularity, right at the beginning of the pandemic.

6 (3m 23s):
It was a really cool app that I've been, I've been getting into lately called tick.

5 (3m 27s):
We know that, you know, Facebook patent interest in Tik TOK as its former self musically years ago and was even exploring maybe buying it. But then, you know, kind of it was either turned away or, you know, decided not to it's kind of blurry, but for the most part, you know, Instagram and Facebook kept on kind of like being Instagram and Facebook. But now that take talk is so such an unavoidable force in our culture.

6 (3m 52s):
Tik TOK had

7 (3m 53s):
13 million downloads in 2019 alone.

5 (3m 57s):
It's really just done what Instagram has always done, which is copy its most prominent features and try to replicate it on its own platforms. And, you know, since Tik TOK is mostly known as a video platform, that means that it's, it's kind of changed the way people's feed looks when they scroll Instagram. So instead of, you know, pictures that your friends or family, or, you know, an influencer that you like are posting, you'll see a lot more video content. And a lot of that video content is either, you know, videos that creators think they have to make because of Instagram's priority of video or videos that are just rip offs of tech talks that went viral a couple of months ago. And it's just a lot of crappy content that people don't really seem to like anyone that uses Instagram really can't avoid reels now because you know, Instagram has decided to just put reels in our feeds.

5 (4m 52s):
It looks exactly like Tik TOK, except for it's in your Instagram feed. And the videos are worse. So people started noticing, you know, how prevalent videos were around this time, last year, and with a couple of, of more tweaks, you know, the Instagram updates all the time, whatever. But over the past year, it's just gotten more and more, you know, recommended videos like recommended in quotes because like who is recommending them, like some weird algorithm that clearly doesn't know us very well because no one seems to like the content and this summer Instagram started this test to a pretty small number of users where photos would start to show up as if they were sort of added to a video screen and they would show up, they would take up the whole screen, but there were black bars on the bottom and the top of the photos.

5 (5m 38s):
So they just looked really weird really out of place. They looked like, you know, this platform isn't for photos anymore. You know, we hate photos now and people really, really didn't like it.

8 (5m 46s):
The app is no longer a photo sharing app that we once knew. It's now an e-commerce app, but Instagram is this. I posted a picture and you have to click on it for, to expand. And then you start scrolling and it's like, it's Tik TOK. You're not Tik TOK. Let it go.

5 (6m 1s):
According to Instagram's own data, you know, people were using the app less and just didn't engage with any of it. So coinciding with that this summer, a photographer on Instagram named Tati Bruning

9 (6m 13s):
My name is tachy. Bruning also known as Illuminati and I'm a photographer and content creator

5 (6m 18s):
Went viral. It was a black text on white background.

9 (6m 21s):
I posted a silly little meme that said, make Instagram, Instagram again. And people ran with it.

5 (6m 31s):
Stop trying to be Tech-Talk. I just want to see cute photos of my friends, sincerely everyone. Okay.

9 (6m 35s):
And I was surprised. And so with how so many people resonated with it, and I also attached a petition to it half jokingly. Now it has over 300,000 signatures.

5 (6m 45s):
And obviously this is a really strong sentiment that's so, so many people, users, creators, alike agree with

9 (6m 51s):
It was almost unusable. It felt like I was on a completely different app and I wasn't seeing any photos of my friends. So while I was scrolling, I was either seeing promoted content or sponsored content

5 (7m 4s):
And it went viral and it got, you know, more than 2 million likes. And even people like Kim Kardashians and Kylie Jenner were posting it on their stories.

0 (7m 11s):
And those are two of the most popular Instagram users.

5 (7m 15s):
Yeah. So we're talking like, you know, major, major Instagram influencers who, you know, you would think would be very pro Instagram or, you know, just really happy with whatever Instagram does, but those are the, actually the people that, you know, Instagram has really terrified of losing because they get engagement, they make news, they make Instagram relevant. And so it kind of amounted to like a PR disaster.

0 (7m 37s):
How does Instagram respond?

5 (7m 39s):
The head of Instagram? Adam, Maseri made a video a couple of weeks ago where he said

10 (7m 45s):
A lot of concerns from all of

5 (7m 46s):
You, but he also acknowledged that video is kind of where social media is heading

10 (7m 51s):
And what people like and consume and view on Instagram. That's also shifting more and more to video over to.

5 (7m 56s):
And even when people say that they prefer photo the assured users, that Instagram will never just, you know, forget about photo part

10 (8m 4s):
Of our

5 (8m 4s):
Heritage, but that the numbers were showing that people were more interested in video, despite what they said.

0 (8m 10s):
So he basically says, I hear you. I see you, but

5 (8m 16s):
You're wrong. One of the big things that they claim about recommended videos from people that you don't follow is that it's a way to help smaller creators get more of a following. And that is true. Instagram has never been a really great discovery platform. That's why Tik TOK is so good at surfacing people. You wouldn't otherwise know. Whereas Instagram is where you go to follow the people that you already know about. And I think this is Instagram's way of kind of catching up to that discoverability. That tick-tock is so good at,

0 (8m 45s):
But the point that people are making, who loved the way Instagram used to be is that they just want to see the stuff from their networks, from their friends, right. And Adam is sorry, basically just blows right past that criticism.

5 (8m 59s):
Exactly. And I think that's because the people that matter more to, you know, an Instagram CEO are the people who are going to help grow followers and grow the amount of money they can make out of this. Facebook is betting on the idea that its most loyal users are going to keep using it regardless where while they can also help, you know, grow the amount of time spent on the platform by smaller creators who are like building their brand.

0 (9m 25s):
This isn't the first time the platform has introduced some dramatic changes. Right. I I'm old enough to remember when Instagram just started completely trying to be Snapchat.

5 (9m 36s):
Yeah. It completely stole the idea of stories, which are disappearing posts that they're up for 24 hours and then they're gone. They're a femoral. I think if I remember properly back then it was sort of just looked upon as so shameless. It was like, oh my gosh, like seriously, Instagram is just copying this. Like, no one's gonna use Instagram for that. And look what happened in a couple of years. I just remember thinking that it was so lame that like Instagram was copying Snapchat and how I would never use Instagram for that. And then obviously I, you know, never use my Snapchat anymore because it successfully stole that idea.

0 (10m 9s):
Right. So is there a chance that Adam Maseratis, right? And, and that this is what people want, whether they realize it or not,

5 (10m 17s):
These changes are going to be good for certain kinds of Instagram users, people that are really trying to like build these viral creator brands for themselves. If you think that that's a good thing, then it will be good. But if you think that's, you know, not maybe where you would like to see Facebook and Instagram putting their efforts, then that's not a great thing. And I think most people in Instagram are falling into the latter category.

0 (10m 42s):
Is there a chance though that Instagram's constant aping of tick-tock blows up in their faces and that people just bounce. They actually lose the Kardashians and the Jenners and the influencers and the moneymakers to another new sexier, more original, more predictable platform.

5 (11m 14s):
I think the reality is that Instagram is just so big and has such a strong history of like being part of this creator economy that it's never going to, you know, like completely hemorrhage its, its main users or anything like that. But I do think that people maybe spend less time there and more time on, you know, more interesting, more niche apps. A lot of the newer apps that have been kind of buzzy lately have nothing to do with getting famous, which I think is really interesting. And you know, when Tik TOK came out, it was like, okay, well if we can't make our users famous, then what are we giving them? How do we get that kind of engagement? I think there's going to be less of an interest on that because the creator economy already is just so crowded and it's just so hard to break in as it is that like why even bother what this really boils down to is that Instagram who's parent company is Facebook.

5 (12m 4s):
Now Metta wants to just be everything for everybody. This is an economy based on extreme growth and like infinite growth. And the way that Instagram sees it is that if it can't be everything to everybody, then it's failed or that it's destined to stall or plateau

0 (12m 24s):
In a minute. What's going on in Instagram is just a little mini me version of what's going on at Instagram's parent company, Facebook. I mean Metta, that's the point more on Metta in a minute on today's fun

Coda.io (12m 42s):
Support for today's show comes from Coda, staying in touch with people across time. Zones is hard. My co-host Sean is on vacation in Italy. He's not responding to any of my texts. So I have personal experience when it comes to working, of course, efficiency is key and that's why Coda wants to bring all of your data and projects into one powerful document with teams spread all across the country. You don't want your best work, spread out across spreadsheets and workflow tools that you have to jump in and out of all day, that is very annoying and it wastes time with Coda. Everything is synced. You can make an update in a table and it automatically shows up everywhere. Do not rely on copy and paste. Coda advises you, your team can operate on the same information and collaborate the way we all want to quickly and efficiently. Coda believes that with Coda you can solve for just about anything. And right now you can get started for free. Find more at coda.io/explained that's coda.io to get started for free coda.io/explained.

Paycor (13m 46s):
This episode is brought to you by Paycor Paycor empowers leaders to build winning teams with Paycor leaders can recruit onboard and train employees, set goals and drive performance. If you're a leader, everyone depends on you. Who do leaders depend on Paycor, learn more at paycor.com/leaders.

11 (14m 7s):
You're not, Tech-Talk let it go

0 (14m 10s):
Today. Explained Ramez from we're back. And we're joined by the venerable Casey Newton from the platformer newsletter. Who's going to tell us about how the whole Instagram thing is really just the whole meta thing.

13 (14m 22s):
The company is responding to basically the greatest series of threats it has ever faced, and they are kind of scrambling to keep pace with some very real changes in the market that they're in. And then because their base is so big of their base of users, a lot of people are angry.

0 (14m 41s):
We heard about the challenge that is, you know, Tik TOK from Rebecca, but you'd argue it's not just bad for business, but that this crisis is more existential. How come

13 (14m 52s):
Well? Because the more time people spend on Tik TOK, the less time they spend looking at ads on Facebook and Instagram. And that brings us to the second challenge that this company is having, which is that last year, apple rolled out a feature called app tracking transparency, which in for most people choose not to allow themselves to be targeted by personalized advertising apps that they look at. Some people thought that this would be a relatively minor blow to the sort of ad based social network ecosystem. In reality, it was a huge blow and Facebook I think is expected to lose about $15 billion in revenue this year due to that one change alone. So the combination of fewer people looking at ads and ads being less effective on Facebook has created real problems for them.

0 (15m 37s):
I want to talk about two things next, which is one is aping, another app to avoid losing out to that app. And the other is doing something that's actually new and interesting. Let's talk about the first we talked with Rebecca about how it seems to have kind of worked with stealing stories from Snapchat that didn't result in this revolt as much as it feels like making everything reels and video is currently on Instagram.

13 (16m 2s):
I think stories was a really natural evolution of Instagram as it existed at the time, by the time that Instagram clone stories, most people had stopped sharing to Instagram more than a handful of times a year, right into just become this feed of highlights of your life. Stories unlocked this new set of things that you were willing to share these sort of more mundane, everyday moments. And so I think people just felt like it belonged what Tik TOK is doing here is really quite different, right? Because you're going from seeing, you know, your friends and family things that you've chosen to follow to just a bunch of suggestions. And you know, some of this stuff is very like America's funniest home videos level. Like man gets hit in the crotch by a baseball bat type of stuff.

14 (16m 44s):
So set it up. I think I said it right to the ball. Bend your knees a little bit. Wait, hold it don't swing yet. God.

13 (16m 52s):
And if that's not what you opened up, Instagram looking for, you are going to feel like an alien parasite has taken over the app.

0 (16m 59s):
Yeah. And you actually spoke to Adam Moseri himself about this. You presented him with all of these complaints. Did you get anything out of him? Didn't you even tell him that someone had called him like a minion? What happened?

13 (17m 11s):
Well, when he was trying to explain these changes, he wore a yellow sweatshirts

10 (17m 16s):
Going on an Instagram right now we're experimenting with a number of different changes to the

13 (17m 20s):
Yeah. And so someone photo-shopped minyan eyes onto him and said that he was in his minion era, that was rusty foster in the today in tabs newsletter. Very good newsletter. And you know, I mean, as I said, I think a lot of interesting things and really did kind of fill in the context for why they're doing this. This is not a series of experiments designed to torture Instagram users. This is stuff that by and large, they feel like they have to do. And I think one big trend that is worth bringing up that Adam talked about is just the fact that even before talk, people were just sharing more and more video on Instagram makes sense. Right? Like if you look at your Instagram stories today, my guess is you'll probably see a lot of video in there. And so they have been thinking for awhile about how do we bring more video into this app?

13 (18m 2s):
I don't know if you remember IGT TV. That was like kind of the last big initiative that the founders of Instagram had rolled out before they left the company. Hey

15 (18m 10s):
Guys, is that a pause? And this is a new episode of my cooking

13 (18m 12s):
Show that didn't really go as planned, but then Tik TOK came along and figured out a better way to do it. So now they have to figure out, okay, how do we make this thing feel at home? Given that the marketplace is sort of voting with its eyeballs and all of the eyeballs are on Tik TOK.

0 (18m 27s):
Can I offer a solution? Did you, when you talked to Maseri, did you ask him why he doesn't let people just opt out of the changes? Because Twitter has more recently realized that that is a potential solution to people being very disgruntled with their changes to the timeline, right? There was this era where Twitter was just this chronological timeline of tweets, and then they changed it where they started showing you very popular tweets, first, a bunch of junk you didn't follow. And then maybe if you scrolled for like three hours, something from a friend that they actually said 20 minutes ago, why does an Instagram just try that,

13 (18m 60s):
That they will let you turn off recommendations in your feed for up to 30 days,

10 (19m 6s):
You can X out a recommendation. You can even snooze all recommendations for up to.

13 (19m 10s):
And they've also just said that they're going to reduce them generally for a while. Like while they make them better. So I think they're trying to do what they can to let people kind of control that a little bit. But at the same time, like people kind of tweet one thing and do another. And when it comes to video, like people, really artists consuming, lots of video, you know, reels, which is like their version of tech talks, which you can find now all over Instagram and Facebook. There's not a lot of like heart or craftsmanship in it. It really is just, you know, tick-tock on, on Instagram, but it's doing pretty well. People are watching them, right? Like they are growing. And so, you know, we might look at that and just think it feels really cynical, but it's working for them well enough that those things are not going away.

0 (19m 53s):
Okay. So that's one side of it. The other side of it to me feels like what Facebook's doing with Metta, which is making this enormous gamble on the metaverse

16 (20m 7s):
Stephen's quintet. This is pretty

0 (20m 9s):
Wild so far. All I see are really awkward videos with like mark Zuckerberg, interviewing Neil deGrasse Tyson about the telescope photos that NASA published. And it looks corny as hell.

16 (20m 22s):
Yes. I mean, this, this is the gas sloughed off in the dying stages of a star.

0 (20m 30s):
How is the meta gamble going for, for Metta?

13 (20m 33s):
It has, it's like highs and lows. I think on the, on the pro side, they've sold a lot of those Oculus quest two headsets. Huh? So like anecdotally, like my went over to my brother's house for Christmas and like all the kids in the neighborhood had gotten one. So like there is kind something happening there where kids are playing with this

17 (20m 50s):
Reality doesn't believe in the impossible. It doesn't believe in moving without limits or breaking the laws of physics.

13 (21m 1s):
I think the question is, is that part of a long-term shift that Facebook is really kind of the tip of the spear on, or is it more of just kind of a novelty and eventually apple or Google comes along where Microsoft with something that's even fancier and better and being at Facebook gets left behind. So they really want to own their own platform. Like everything else be damned. So that's why they're, they're going headlong into this. They are determined to own the next generation of computing, whatever it is. And so they're taking a massive bet on that. The thing is there's so, so early, right? Like you talk to anyone about this and, and, you know, including mark Zuckerberg and he will tell you, they have so many problems to solve with this, just to make basically a working prototype, right.

13 (21m 42s):
When you're talking about shrinking computers and displays down into so that they can fit in glasses and have like decent battery life and not like literally burn your face because the glasses have gotten so hot, you're just like running up against the laws of physics. And so they will tell you, like, it's going to take 3, 5, 8 years before they've managed to solve those problems. And that's a long time and they're already out there basically today telling you, Hey, like the metaverse is almost ready for you. So I think they've gotten kind of way ahead of the technology and I, and you know, they're, they're going to pay a price for it, which, you know, in, in jokes and other things,

0 (22m 20s):
I mean, it seems like they're at once acknowledging the platforms can kind of stay the same and that platforms need to radically change. I mean, Facebook, if I ever check in over there, it looks more or less like it did 10 years ago when I kind of stopped using it. And then Instagram of course, is, is in the middle ground where it's totally changing and it doesn't look like anything I used to see. And then, you know, the metaverse is something that's so advanced that I don't even want to see it yet is Metta just betting on everything.

13 (22m 46s):
Here's the thing you have to remember about social networks. They become popular because they figure out some novel mechanic that gets us all to share whether it's like a square photo or a filtered photo or a six second video or a 140 character sentence. And there's something about that that draws us all and says, yeah, let's all do that. Right. But you know, just like chewing gum, those things lose their flavor and people start falling away. And so these companies just to continue, have to continuously pull rabbit out after a rabbit, out of a hat, just in order to keep our attention. You know, I sometimes think that media is the worst business, you know, for various reasons.

13 (23m 29s):
But then you talk to these people running the social networks, they actually do have it pretty tough because if they're not able to stay ahead of what people want and sort of constantly find, you know, this is maybe a bit of a tangent, but like, you know, have you ever seen like at the mall and like one of those photo studios and they're trying to like get the baby to smile,

18 (23m 50s):
Come on, smiles, smiley wildly.

13 (23m 56s):
Like that's how I think of a social network. It's like mark Zuckerberg with like a, like a shiny little disco ball waving in front of a baby's face saying like, will you smile at this? That is what a social network is. So you can get mad at Instagram because it's not just like photos of your friends, brunch anymore. People had stopped smiling at that. And so we had to bring in a new shiny to get people's attention.

0 (24m 17s):
I mean, should we just accept that all platforms must die?

13 (24m 22s):
I think we have to accept the death of all things. And that's really what I wanted to talk to you about today,

0 (24m 31s):
But it really seems that like Beto with this Instagram tick-tock hybrid is not accepting that at all. They're trying to instead just grasp, but Eddie last semblance of any last thing they can throw in front of the baby's face.

13 (24m 46s):
Well, I think you're hitting on something important here, which is that I do think these apps are having an identity crisis and it makes sense, right? Like this company became one of the biggest companies in the world by building a network out of your friends and family. And then they wake up 20 years later. And guess what, what if, what if your friends and family don't even matter? What, if you don't want to see anything, your friends and family post in a public way, right? Or maybe friends and family have just stopped posting to these networks in general for a bunch of reasons. All of a sudden you need a new reason for being that is just super hard to do. And in fact, we should assume by default that this will not work right. There are very few cases in the history of business where anybody has been able to pull something like this off.

13 (25m 26s):
So their back is against the ropes.

0 (25m 30s):
Casey Newton platformer is his newsletter. Find it@platformer.news. You can and should read Rebecca Jennings of box.com. I'm Sean Ramez from our show today was produced by Victoria Domingas fact-checked by Laura Bullard, ADI, Milwaukee, and mixed and mastered by Paul mousey. It's today explained

1 (26m 3s):
This is pretty wild

KiwiCo (26m 17s):
Looking for a great hands-on gift for the curious kids in your life, that tinker who can't stop exploring building and taking things apart. Kiwi COEs delivers super cool science technology and art projects for kids of all ages straight to your door every month, choose from nine different subscription lines, focused on subjects like engineering, art, and design science of cooking, and more, every crate delivered has everything you need. Complete the project in there. Seriously fun. Get 50% off your first month on any subscription line at QE code.com/vox 50 that's QE code.com/v O X five zero.