0 (1s):
This was supposed to be a banner year for women's soccer in the United States. After years of arguments over equitable treatment, a huge win equal pay, they even cut a deal that would pool World Cup prize money with the men's side, equal

2 (18s):
Pay for making the team for games and events and for playing in the World Cup, which by the way, the US Women's soccer team has won four times.

0 (28s):
But equal pay and pooling prize money didn't fix the culture of abuse.

3 (34s):
Calls for change after escaping new report revealed systemic abuse and misconduct across US women's soccer.

0 (41s):
It turns out there's been a rampant culture of abuse in women's soccer because there's been a rampant culture of overlooking abuse in women's soccer. But now that finally might change too. That's coming up on today. Explained

2 (59s):
Cover story from New York Magazine is back. I'm Hannah Rosen, host of Season two Seed Money. This season we have a story about a billionaire and ex buy many, many women. It's

4 (1m 13s):
Almost like he's using all the women as a startup company

2 (1m 16s):
And so, so many lies.

5 (1m 18s):
If I can't stop him, I don't think anybody will be able to stop him.

2 (1m 23s):
Cover story. Season two, Seed Money Coming October 25th, Hear the trailer and follow us wherever you listen to podcasts.

6 (1m 33s):
Taylor Swift is releasing her 10th album this week and it will most likely be a hit like everything she's ever done.

7 (1m 41s):
I'm never gonna call her avant garde, but she's far more innovative than most people give her credit for and I think she will go down as one of the greats in arguably.

6 (1m 53s):
But this is a good time to assess her career and legacy. The meaning of Taylor's Swift this week on Intuit Vultures culture podcast

0 (2m 12s):
Today explains Sean Ramis room. We're gonna dig into the culture of abuse and US women's soccer today, but before we do a note that we will be talking about sexual abuse, you'll hear some graphic details. With that said, let's take a moment to celebrate women's soccer in the United States because for the most part it is thriving Sinclair

8 (2m 32s):
Trying to work his shots on that left foot. She drives if he takes an inflection, I hope so.

0 (2m 39s):
The women win more than the men internationally, as you probably know. But women's soccer in the United States is competing with men's soccer in, in terms of viewership in, in some cases women's soccer even makes more money. An equal pay should have made 2022 the best year yet for women's soccer in the United States. But no,

9 (3m 12s):
No, I think the equal pay fight that it was a fight at all was kind of a canary in a coal mine situation. It was a tip of an iceberg that revealed that there's a lot more systematically going on.

10 (3m 24s):
Well tonight the world of professional women's soccer is turned upside down after a shocking report that a prominent male coach is accused of coercing players into having sex

11 (3m 35s):
On Thursday, North Carolina's professional team, the courage fired coach Paul Riley, following reports, he sexually coerced multiple players.

10 (3m 43s):
The top league canceled all of its games for this weekend and now soccer's international governing body is investigating.

12 (3m 50s):
How do we know that if we turn up to work every day that this is not gonna happen to us or it's not gonna happen again? Because it did happen again and again and again and no one in position of power or ability stopped it.

9 (4m 7s):
There's been ongoing abuse in the National Women's Soccer League, of which US Soccer was a manager for a number of years since it was founded. And you know, there were people in US soccer who have an alleged degree of culpability here in ignoring or minimalizing, trivializing, perhaps even enabling some of the abuse just through their failure to act.

0 (4m 28s):
This is Steph Young from the athletics. She writes about the National Women's Soccer League and the US Women's National Team. A lot of the abuse you're hearing about in the show today has been known for some time, but there was just a big investigation that came out and clarified the causes.

9 (4m 44s):
This is all coming out of a report generated by Sally Q Yates who was the former acting attorney General of the us. The

11 (4m 51s):
Results of a year long investigation was issued this week that outlines allegations of verbal, physical, even sexual abuse within the National Women's Soccer

9 (5m 1s):
League. She now works at King and Spalding, it's a law firm down in Atlanta. And she was brought on by US soccer themselves in the wake of a lot of reports from players of abusive coaches in nwsl. And she, you know, ran a, a third party investigation looking into this and then generated, I think it was 172 page report documenting and horrifying detail abuses from three coaches in particular. But the report does note that there's more they couldn't get into, but they just, they didn't have time. It had already been a year. So that's where it's all coming from right now.

0 (5m 39s):
Tell me about some of the specifics, which, which teams or was it the whole league?

9 (5m 43s):
Well the report itself focused on three particular coaches. So this would be Paul Riley,

11 (5m 49s):
Riley coerced, one player to have sex with him, forced two players to kiss one another and send unsolicited sexual pictures.

9 (5m 56s):
Christie Holly, who is at racing Louisville,

14 (5m 59s):
Christie Holly, has been fired for the club for

9 (6m 2s):
Calls and Rory Dame at the Chicago Red Stars

15 (6m 4s):
For a long time. Coach for Chicago's Professional Women's Soccer Club is out

9 (6m 8s):
And the report is very careful to note that there's more. It does mention stuff like Richie Burke who was abusive to his players at the Washington Spirit. You know, one of the whistleblowers there was one of his players, Kaya McCullough, but it also notes that like to get these three coaches and talk to players about them, they interviewed over 200 people like player, staff, coaches, administrators passed and present. And they reviewed something like 89,000 documents, which they cold down from over a million documents provided by US Soccer, which is typical in an investigation like this, but you can imagine now why it might have taken a year to stumble all of that into even 172 page report.

0 (6m 49s):
Okay, well give us some of the details. Let's start with Paul Riley from the Portland Thorns.

9 (6m 57s):
Paul Riley is a longtime women's soccer coach. He's been around since the previously women's professional soccer where he coaches the Philadelphia independence and that's also where another alleged incident of sexual coercion occurred where Shane Fairley, one of his players there later alleged that he sexually coerced her. You

16 (7m 15s):
You say that after an encounter in a hotel room, he said, We will take this to our

17 (7m 18s):
Graves. That is something that has replayed in my mind for, I mean for 10

9 (7m 26s):
Years. And then another player at the Portland Thores, which he coached in the National Women's Soccer League, Monash Shim alleges that Paul sexually harassed her. He would send her texts, he would ask her to come to his hotel room, he tried to get her to travel alone with him to the World Cup in Canada in 2015, that sort of thing. And he would hold her playing time over her head. Hmm, this is not a national team player, she doesn't have a huge sponsorship deal. She has relatively little power in the system. So obviously she feels like Paul Reilly, who's a nationally renowned coach, can make or break her career.

18 (8m 1s):
Ultimately, I just felt failed and silenced and like nobody was looking out for us. I felt

9 (8m 7s):
Unsafe. And then later on in the Yates report, it's also alleged that he was verbally abusive to his players, multiple teams and most recently the North Carolina courage where an anonymous player said that, you know, he would make disparaging remarks about appearance and wait and just comment on players being fat, that sort of thing. Just really damaging stuff under the guise of being concerned about fitness.

0 (8m 30s):
Was it the same deal in Louisville with Christie Holly?

9 (8m 33s):
Christie Holly is alleged to have coerced, harassed, assaulted a player there, Aaron Simon at Racing Louisville, which is why he was terminated for, cause it wasn't explicitly stated at the time by racing Louisville's ownership, but he would do things apparently, like he would invite her to a game film session and then he would say, For every time that you mess up, I'm going to touch you. And then he would force his hands under her clothing into, you know, her genital areas. Really, really awful stuff.

0 (9m 7s):
Yikes. And and what happened in Chicago with, is it Rory Dame?

9 (9m 11s):
Rory Dame is a longtime Chicago area coach, not just for the Red Stars, but he got his start in the youth system and he owns a club there as far as I'm aware, he still owns the club. It might be changing, but I don't think the club is exactly publicizing it. It's called Eclipse. And there were multiple allegations at the Red Stars over the years of him being verbally abusive, harassing players and then even having inappropriate relationships with players, inviting them to one on one meals, dinners and lunches at of all places. The Cheesecake Factory, which is just, it was such a bizarre detail that jumps out at you like you're reading this really awful grim report and you see Cheesecake Factory and you're just like, Oh, Cheesecake Factory.

9 (9m 52s):
And then you get back to weeping. He would belittle his players and he would do this to youth players as well. That was included in the report that there had been reports as far back as 1998 of him being hostile to kids. This is preteens up to teenagers that were talking about. And you know, there was an investigation all the way back in the nineties per the Yates report where someone in the Arlington Police Department conducted like a hundred interviews and then they ultimately decided that there wasn't enough to go on, even though they had discovered things like maybe had touched a player inappropriately while they were sitting together on a couch. He had punched a male player in the stomach allegedly, huh.

9 (10m 35s):
And that he routinely like verbally belittled these kids with comments about their appearances, calling them losers, using you know, foul language, that sort of thing. So a Roy Aimes, you know, the pattern continued with the Chicago Red Stars in the professional environment where he would once again create this hostile abusive environment where he would belittle players, yell at them, abuse them, that sort of thing.

0 (10m 60s):
Okay, so we've got three coaches here, Paul, Riley, Christie, Holly and Rory Dams. But you're saying this is by no means limited to these three individuals?

9 (11m 10s):
No, these are the three individuals. The Yates report had the time and resources to get into and they probably could have kept going, but at the report notes like at some point you have to deliver like some kind of detail. You can't just keep going forever. And that's also really awful, right, that they could have just kept going even after a year of investigation in over 200 interviews

19 (11m 33s):
Because of the breadth and the difficulty of piecing through, you know, evidence that that's quite old. Even with respect to three of these coaches. It was a huge undertaking. And so what we thought that the best use of our resources would be would be to identify those others, lay out what some of the evidence is there and recognizing also that the joint investigation, the NWSL and P and the PA investigation is also looking at other coaches

0 (12m 1s):
Is it sounds like there's a whole host of allegations about a ton of people. What's the pattern? Do you see one,

9 (12m 9s):
There are a lot of patterns that play here, but I'll give you kind of the format of generally what seems to happen. Coach comes on board, there's maybe some red flags where he'll be like, oh, he coached at like five different places in the last three years. Then the coach goes on to repeat, The behavior is quietly let go, moves in, you club repeat. These people are allowed to move from club to club to club and nobody ever says anything cuz there's not any kind of formalized system of reporting. And because the owners or the people in charge of hiring just keep it to themselves,

20 (12m 48s):
People in authority and decision making positions have repeatedly failed to protect us and they have failed to hold themselves and each other accountable. What and who are you actually protecting and what values are you upholding? You have failed in your stewardship

0 (13m 11s):
More with Steph Young in a minute on today explained, Hey it's Sean. And when I showed up to vox.com back in November of 2017, I was actually new Sean because there was already a Sean, his name was Sean Illing, we lovingly referred to him as old Sean back in the day. And old Sean has a new podcast called The Gray Area, which was old Vox conversations. It's a philosophical take on culture and politics and whatever Sean's been thinking about, which tends to be really interesting stuff. We played one of their episodes sometime back in the feed on today, explained about forgiveness because I just never heard such an interesting dynamic conversation about forgiveness.

0 (13m 58s):
Sean's a bit of a philosopher by trade who happens to work in journalism and every week he's gonna sit down with journalists, authors, academics, and whoever else he wants to, to get some really cool takes in a very hot world. You see what they did there, New episodes of the Great Area drop every Monday and Thursday, check it out wherever you listen

21 (14m 28s):
This month on criminal,

22 (14m 29s):
It had turned into a full scale Phantom panic.

21 (14m 33s):
A town is terrorized by a strange creature in white until one man decides to take matters into his own hands.

22 (14m 41s):
And it's the only case in English legal history where somebody has been shot dead mistaken as a ghost

21 (14m 51s):
And a fake documentary about a haunted house airs on TV except people think it's real.

23 (14m 57s):
The phone system at the BBC was jam, it all went a bit crazy.

21 (15m 2s):
I'm Phoebe, Judge, listen to criminal, wherever you get your podcasts,

24 (15m 8s):
There's such a good team and the fact that there's like the boys team of the men's World Cup is like it's, it's like the womens are so much better

0 (15m 18s):
Today. Explained back with Steph Young from the athletic, talking about the pattern of abuse and women's soccer in the United States and why it's hard to break.

9 (15m 26s):
First of all, there's no great structure for reporting this where all this stuff is accumulated in one place. So someone can be like, oh aha, there's a lot of reports coming in and then applying all the data. What we see from the Yates report is a lot of different people have a lot of different pieces at a lot of different times. But you know, I think a major contributing factor is this thing where coaches come in, misconduct occurs and then they're allowed to leave and go to the next job and repeat.

20 (15m 52s):
We are angry that it took a third party investigation. We are angry that it took an article in the Athletic in the Washington Post and numerous others we're angry that it took over 200 people sharing their trauma to get to this point right now. And we are angry that it took Ma and Shane and Aaron and Kaya and Alex and Kristen and Sam to repeatedly ask people in authority to take their abuse and their concerns seriously,

0 (16m 25s):
Why is that? Why aren't these reports being filed somewhere so other people can see

9 (16m 32s):
'em? So I think it's a combination of, it's kind of a fragmented oversight system when it comes to reports. The league didn't even have its own anti-harassment policy until, I wanna say, well roughly last year, big HR problem, right? And then combined with active ignorance from people who should have been able to assemble the pieces into something. It does come down a little bit to the way the league is structured. The league is ultimately business, right? And right now NWSL has 12 teams and each one of them is their own individual business. And it's not like they're all like franchise dominoes that report to one corporate headquarters, right? They're all allowed their own individual operation.

9 (17m 12s):
They're not supposed to be interfering with each other or being overseen too much by the league top down. But what that also means is there's not like a central repository, and we'll see later in the Yates report that that recommendation, like you need to have some kind of overarching safety officer to have like a central repository for this kind of thing. Those

19 (17m 31s):
Who were in a position to make a difference didn't, they not only failed to respond appropriately to evidence of abuse, they had also failed to institute the most basic measures.

9 (17m 44s):
But because there isn't, you know, it's a very fragmented, like, so maybe you get some reports here from Chicago, you get some reports here from the North Carolina courage or you see nwsl commissioner Jeff plush from back around 2015, that sort of thing. And you see these names come up over and over that they received an email about some complaint, a report or an end of season survey and they're like, well then they forwarded it to somebody else or they ignored it or it didn't go anywhere.

0 (18m 10s):
The the things you're talking about that every team is an independent entity and there's not a lot of cross-communication across the league that isn't specific to women's soccer in the United States. Why is there such rampant abuse in this particular league?

9 (18m 26s):
I think the actual answer, which is super dark, is that abuse is actually occurring in a lot of other leagues as well, but it's just not being reported.

25 (18m 39s):
There's, there's no report that came out here, but I'm sure that there could be one. It just says there could be one in likely every single country, which is a really sad reality. But I feel like there's just so much solidarity between the things that we have to fight

9 (18m 51s):
For. It's not covered because a lot of times what it takes in these cases is for a complainant to come forward, you can't go around to every single team peering in with a magnifying glass, constantly going, who in this organization's abusive, who's abusive, who's abusive? You know, you do need some overarching controls, like we said, like some kind of safety officer or something who's in charge. But until you have a complainant come forward, a lot of times how can anybody know that something is is going wrong unless they're, you know, out in broad daylight. Which to be fair, some of these coaches were out in broad daylight yelling insults at players and unfortunately that's often a lot to ask of someone who's been victimized and traumatized asking them to come forward and go through the system.

9 (19m 37s):
Especially when they see the people who came before them maybe might have tried it. It went nowhere. And in fact, in some cases people like Rory Danes were told that somebody had made an allegation against them and that he would go, you know, talk to that person to be like, I know you made a complaint about me, why would you ever complain in an atmosphere like that, especially in women's sports where you don't make a lot of money so someone like your coach, team owner, general manager can essentially end your livelihood.

0 (20m 14s):
It feels like another issue here is, is some of the abuse you're talking about I is so endemic to sports. I mean you watch sports on TV in, in stadiums where there's tens of thousands of people and you see berating and sometimes even pushing around players. There's, there's physical contact sometimes and, and that that's broadcast for the world to see because it's some level of acceptable. Where does that kind of behavior start?

9 (20m 40s):
What happens to a lot of players is, and it's also noted in the Yates report, is that youth soccer, youth sports in general in the United States condition players to accept a certain standard of bad behavior because you grow up your whole life thinking a coach screaming at you is good coaching or it's just cuz he cares about you or it's supposed to motivate me. You know, we raise kids in this system where coaches displace all this awful misbehavior onto the kids and you know, the kids are expected to take some kind of life lesson from it and grow as people. If you're a parent and your child plays youth soccer, do you know who to go to?

9 (21m 23s):
If you have a complaint about the coach, would you know who to approach? Do you know the structure of how soccer, you know is run in your county or your state? I bet a lot of parents don't. So when I talked about cultural factors and you talked about, you know, coaches screaming and shoving at players being broadcast and this being accepted, and then people should ask themselves, Yeah, why would I accept that? Why do I see that? Like if I see in the nfl, like a grown man throwing his headset on the ground or shoving another grown man into another player, why do I think like, yeah, that's totally fine, just because it's sports. I think Americans have internalized this idea that because it's sports and there's some inherent moral value to sports in our country, and also we just love winners, that these things are just an acceptable cost to being in sports.

9 (22m 17s):
Like yeah, it's a high pressure environment, it's a pressure cooker. Like you have to make sacrifices. I don't think anybody should have to be belittled or even physically abused at their job no matter what the job is.

0 (22m 29s):
Let's bring this back to women's soccer right now for a second here. Let's bring this back to the nwsl. What steps are they taking in the aftermath of this investigation?

9 (22m 40s):
Well, we have to remember, there's a whole other report still yet to come because not only did US Soccer Commission and independent investigation, NSL itself commissioned their own independent investigation through another law firm, Covington and Barling. And that report is still in the works and is talking to people and assembling probably again, tens of thousands of documents. I mean, all you have to do is go look at the, the law firms involved, or like big multinational law firm. So it should give you an idea of like the resources required here in order to pull together a report. So we have a whole nother report to come. US soccer themselves has taken some immediate steps, but you have to remember they're also limited by their member organization.

9 (23m 25s):
So there's some unilateral action that they can take or that a president Cindy Parlo Cohen can take on our own. But there's a lot of things that they kind of need approval in the form of votes from the organization members and they're supposed to have recommendations for US soccer and how to immediately, well not immediately, but how to implement the recommendation in the, in the Yates report by I think end of year or January of next year. And it's gonna include things like looking at, you know, like the youth coaching system, the licensing system, having overarching safety officers and I don't know, maybe we might even have to go into a deeper restructure of the NWSL board of directors itself, but I think a lot of people are just waiting for the end of the sell report before they kind of try to get into the nitty gritty of, you know, adjusting how the game is administered.

9 (24m 13s):
I don't wanna make it seem like there's an abuser around every corner. I think there's lots of great people in soccer and you can't go through life or, or even playing soccer, assuming everybody's out to get you. You just can't function as a human being that way. But I do think that this is a time for us to not just reevaluate how we run things, but literally how we relate to sports, what value we assign to sports in our lives and in society.

25 (24m 44s):
It's been difficult for the players.

20 (24m 47s):
The players are not doing well. We are horrified and heartbroken and frustrated and exhausted and really, really angry. Every owner and executive and US soccer official who is repeatedly failed the players and failed to protect the players who have hidden behind legalities and have not participated fully in these investigations should be gone

25 (25m 16s):
In, you know, the entire landscape of women's sports. Nobody ever wants to see anything like this, but hopefully this can be a moment in time that you say None of this ever happened again.

0 (25m 30s):
Steph Young writes about women's soccer at the Athletic reader@theathletic.com. Our program today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain. She had help from Matthew Colette, Laura Bullard, and Paul Robert Mosey. This is today explained.