0 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from the financial times, but we don't have to be all formal and proper about it. We can just call them the Ft. The Ft breaks down. The biggest topics of the day and analyze is how they actually impact your life. Sounds like a familiar mission. And clearly the Ft and T E are happy to share you. Visit Ft com slash new agenda to read carefully selected free articles and save 50% on an annual digital subscription.

2 (35s):
Peter Kafka here, host of land of the giants, the podcast that explores the biggest and most important tech companies of our time. This season, we're talking about apple Apple's runaway success comes from iconic leadership and one revolutionary product. The iPhone we'll look closely at the story behind it, how they're made, who makes them in the ramifications of Apple's ever-growing

3 (58s):
When part of your brain, and is that your code for the world, you are going to be held responsible.

2 (1m 3s):
The land of the giants, the apple revolution for Recode and the Vox media podcast network. New episodes are out every Wednesday. This season is sponsored by web flow. Follow us wherever you get your podcasts.

0 (1m 20s):
Wicked, wicked. Okay. Tell us your name and how you'd like us to identify you on our show, please.

4 (1m 27s):
Jason <inaudible> ex-con is that how you

0 (1m 32s):
Introduce yourself to people?

4 (1m 33s):
Every once in a while? It depends.

0 (1m 35s):
What'd you say ex-con they probably want to go what'd you do then? What do you say?

4 (1m 40s):
I didn't know anything like everybody else in Shawshank. I was innocent, right?

0 (1m 46s):
Like Andy DeFrain before him, Jason <inaudible> didn't do it, but it didn't really matter because he was in a run. And if you're an American or an English man and raw Australian in Iran, if you're from some country that doesn't have a good relationship with Iran, which is a lot of them, you might just find yourself behind bars there for no reason on the show today, we're going to figure out why exactly that is and whether anyone wants to change it. And we're going to start with Jason Rezaian story.

4 (2m 14s):
I grew up in the San Francisco bay area. My mom was from Illinois. My dad was from Iran and, you know, as their life progressed, they would travel back and forth to Iran. A lot. I was born in 1976. The revolution happened in 1979, the hostage crisis and all of those things that came after really colored my childhood in a lot of ways. And you juxtapose that with the fact that not only was my dad from Iran, but he had a large Iranian family who started to move from Iran to California near us. And my perceptions of Iranians were really different than what I grew up seeing represented on television and the news in movies.

4 (3m 1s):
So I always had this curiosity, this interest when I was 25, for the first time I had the opportunity to go to Iran and it was probably, you know, the 40th something country that I visited. And it happened to be one of the craziest, just so different. You know, it wasn't like anywhere else. I'd been. I made that first trip in 2001, several months before nine 11 returned home, went back again the next year and started filing stories. I'd studied creative writing in college. And some of my professors who were journalists had introduced me to various editors at different publications.

4 (3m 46s):
So I just start randomly, you know, pitching pieces or sending finished manuscripts to editors and little by little, they started getting picked up and I moved to Toronto in 2009. And from the time that I moved there, you know, I never wanted for work after that. There was always an opportunity for me to publish my stories as a freelancer, I would write about everything. I was looking for stories of real people. So, you know, I wrote about art and culture wrote about sports. I wrote about food, but I also wrote about the news. I wrote about poverty, wrote about drug addiction. And then, you know, as I, I moved more into mainstream day-to-day reporting for the Washington post.

4 (4m 31s):
I was able to bring some of those threads with me, into my reporting as I reported on, on, on bigger geopolitical stories, which inherently, when you're the Washington post correspondent in a country like that you have different access than you do as, as a freelancer

0 (4m 48s):
And as an American born journalist operating in Iran, are you at all nervous publishing stories about politics?

4 (4m 55s):
Hell yeah. You know, you have to watch your back. And you know, there are certain procedures and permissions that you have to get to do this work. And, and if you're smart and wise, you don't work without those permissions. So I always followed the rules and, and applied and waited until I received my accreditation before I would start working. And there was something that would have to be re-upped every few months and the day that my wife and I were arrested, we were actually both given one year extensions by the ministry that, that handles press credentials of our press passes.

4 (5m 37s):
So, you know, somebody was fine with me working in Iran.

0 (5m 40s):
Tell me about the day you got arrested.

4 (5m 43s):
We were at home. I had been covering the latest round of nuclear negotiations in Vienna. Earlier that week I had come back, we were preparing travel to the United States. My wife and I had been married for 15 months. At that point, we were going to come to the U S for a couple of months, kind of a long break. She was going to get her green card, which, you know, we had done all of that paperwork from afar. She'd had her interviews at the consulate and the UAE, everything was all set. And we were preparing to go to a surprise birthday party for my mother-in-law.

4 (6m 24s):
We got dressed. We left our apartment, got in the elevator to go down into the, the building's garage. And when the door opened of the elevator, there were several guys there with guns pointed, right at me. They took us back into our apartment, ransack the place. I'm not sure what they were looking for, and I don't think they really found it, but, you know, they took our, our computers, took our, our laptops, took all of our forms of identification, paraded us through the courtyard of our apartment buildings in front of our neighbors, handcuffed us, blindfolded us, threw us in the back of a van and took us to a Veen prison where I would spend the next 544 days.

4 (7m 17s):
I lived a several seasons in Evian prison. And the first one was, I would say the hardest one because I was in solitary confinement. I spent seven weeks in solitary in a cell that was about four feet by eight feet with fluorescent lighting on 24 hours a day only being taken out to be interrogated or for 20 minutes of blindfolded, fresh air every afternoon. So that's not a very good existence, right? There's nothing to, while away the time you're not given books, you're not given the opportunity to communicate with anybody.

4 (8m 0s):
So you're really trapped with your thoughts. So that was incredibly hard. And it was during that time that I really started to think of myself, okay, if you're going to get through this, you need to take it easy on yourself and be as kind and friendly to yourself as possible. So I spend as much time as I could kind of recounting positive memories and good things that had happened in the past and planning for the future because it's very easy to go down rabbit holes that are scary, distressing, and, you know, you can cause yourself a lot of, of torment.

4 (8m 42s):
If you're not careful, I, I made a commitment to try and find something to laugh about every day. And I think about things that I did when I was a kid and think about sweet memories with my wife and family vacations that I've taken, you know, with my folks and baseball games that I had gone to and trips that I'd taken and everything else that you can fill your time with. Fortunately, after 49 days, I was given the opportunity to come out of solitary confinement. I didn't know why. And they put me in, in a larger cell, but that had a courtyard connected to it, which allowed me the opportunity to be out of doors for the daylight hours.

4 (9m 30s):
And Sean, I got to tell you, I mean, if you've been in solitary confinement for an afternoon, you know, if all of a sudden you're let out of solitary confinement and given the opportunity to, to spend time under the blue sky, even if there are massive brick walls that are topped in Barb wire surrounding you, it is a major step up. And you know, it kind of allowed me to come out of this phase of feeling like a caged animal and feel more like just a cage person. And, you know, gave me an opportunity to, to think about things in a more constructive ways.

0 (10m 14s):
And, and their party line is that you're not really a journalist, but that you're a spy. Do they ever produce any?

4 (10m 21s):
I clicked on something that I shouldn't have and they were able to access my emails. So they were living in my Gmail account for a few days before my arrest. So that meant that they were rifling through things and printing emails out. And they were, you know, reading emails in the language that was not their native one and seizing on things that seemed suspicious. So in one email, for example, I had apologized to somebody for going radio silent and you know, the email print out comes back to me with that section highlighted in green. Why did you go ready to go radio silent radio silent is only a term that spies use.

4 (11m 3s):
I'm gonna go, what the fuck are you talking about at the time? And now in retrospect, you know, I didn't do anything wrong to get myself into this situation. And you know, they're going to, they're going to concoct whatever they wanted to out of whatever they could. And, you know, it would all stick and their shitty judicial system, but in the, in the court of public opinion and, and, and in the real world, nobody was buying it.

0 (11m 30s):
I guess this has gone on forever, but maybe lucky for you. There's these nuclear talks going on between the Obama administration and Iran, and they strike a deal arrange for a prisoner's swap. And you're finally released after 544 days. How does that feel?

4 (11m 51s):
Challenges of new freedom are unique and strange and nothing that, that someone can be prepared for, especially when your ordeal has been so highly publicized

5 (12m 5s):
And politicized. I'm happy they're coming home. My problem is this number one, they should never have been hostages in the first place. None of them did anything wrong. And number two, I think that Iran very deliberately sees them because they know that under a Barack Obama, you can trade Americans for people you want.

4 (12m 21s):
So, you know, I came out to a lot of fanfare among my colleagues in the media, but there were all sorts of people in Washington who hated this deal. People will,

6 (12m 32s):
Hi, Americans will die as Raley's will die. Europeans will die. Let's rise up and tell every elected official in Washington, stop this deal.

4 (12m 46s):
And would've liked nothing more than to see no deal between the U S and Iran, which, oh, by the way, if, if there was no deal, I might still be sitting in prison now almost six years later. So, you know, it's, it's very jarring to come back to that and to, to live in Washington DC. Now for the first time in my life, as someone who is closely associated with a very contentious political issue.

0 (13m 16s):
And now that you're back in the states in DC specifically, I suppose, what have you learned about what exactly happened to you about how you ended up in prison for

4 (13m 26s):
More than a year? So I had a lot of conversations with people in the administration at the time a lot of doors were open to me and I, you know, I pushed those doors open and sat down and asked a lot of questions. And one of the things that officials in the Obama administration kept saying to me was Jason. You know, we deal with Americans who were wrongly detained in different countries all the time. This case, your case was particularly egregious. We knew that there was nothing about your, your work or your presence in Iran that was in any way dangerous to Iran, national security. You were very upfront about the work that you were doing. And this was a clear-cut case of an American being taken hostage as leverage against us.

4 (14m 11s):
They would say to me, sometimes that, you know, had you actually been a spy, it would be really, you know, less complicated for us to deal with it. We do this all the time in different parts of the world. We trade people back and forth pretty regularly, but you know, when it comes down to trying to free, and as in Americans, from other countries in exchange for people who have, you know, broken laws in the United States, oftentimes who are convicted felons, it gets kind of complicated. These are precedents that the justice department does not want to set.

4 (14m 52s):
I've learned more about this than I ever thought that I would. And in the process learned that you know, more and more governments are taking Americans hostage for this very purpose

0 (15m 25s):
Support for the show. Tonight comes from noon. Noon would like you to picture your favorite meal, like close your eyes. If you have to pretend you're not just listening to a podcast, unless you're driving. Keep your eyes open driver. Anyway, the rest of you close your eyes, picture your favorite meal, unless you're like taking care of a child, take care of your child. Anyway, the rest of you close your eyes and picture your favorite food. I mean, for me, it's like a delicious and almost borderline toxically, spicy Sri Lankan, rice, and Curry with like, you know, four or five different dishes on the plate. My mom just made it. I can't wait to eat it. I don't see her very often.

0 (16m 7s):
Oh, it's amazing. Now close your eyes and think of your favorite diet. Did your meal just disappear because you're now on this diet new months, you don't know it don't have to be like that. You can sign up for your trial and get psychology-based support to reach your goals. Go to noon.com/explained that's N O O m.com/explained to start your trial today.

7 (16m 37s):
The special report that we planned to bring you tonight was about domestic politics. The battle among the Democrats, but we think the crisis in Iran is more urgent right now than the campaign here at home. Some 60 Americans are now beginning their sixth day of captivity inside the U S embassy in Tehran. It's Friday morning there now, but throughout this night in Washington, officials will continue their search for some way to negotiate the hostages freedom. That search was not successful today,

0 (17m 6s):
Though. Jason <inaudible> is out now in the world talking about his experience as an Iran hostage. There's nothing particularly new about his experience. Iran has been at it a while. So we reached out to Nygaard mortazavi to find out more about this practice.

8 (17m 23s):
I'm at journalist and political analyst and host of the Iran podcast.

0 (17m 28s):
So   when does Iran start holding foreigners hostage as a foreign policy strategy?

8 (17m 36s):
It really began from the 1979 revolution. We've all heard about the hostage crisis at the beginning of the inception of the Islamic Republic at a group of students taking over U S embassy and then literally taking American diplomats hostage, asking the United States to return the Shah of Iran. It was very publicly acknowledged by the Iranian side. It was that group of students, and then later supported by the state basically. And since those times it's slowly evolve into a, I would say, manufactured judicial process.

8 (18m 16s):
So they, Rania is no longer call these people. Hostages their process is no longer climbing over a wall and taking over an embassy, you know, publicly acknowledging blindfolding people parading them in front of the cameras. They put them through a judicial process and they see what they call security crimes and hold them for crimes of espionage of colluding against the state popping in negates the state, collaborating with adversary governments and it to this day, it's basically continuing.

9 (18m 53s):
And Ron is accused of using four prisoners to extract political and financial concession from Washington,

10 (18m 58s):
Secretary of state Antony Blinken assured the charges and the families of the three other American prisoners held by Iran that their return is a priority.

8 (19m 8s):
There are a number of foreign nationals as well. Dual nationals, who the Iranian security forces are more paranoid about and see as the bigger threats to the country. And they're essentially how those bargaining chips for, for Iran to take concessions from some of these Western countries or more adversarial states,

0 (19m 28s):
Which is to say this practice didn't end with Jason's release. There are still hostages being held captive in Iran right now. Why does Iran keep doing this

8 (19m 37s):
One layer? Is that the Iranian hardliners think of themselves as this. We are country. When it comes to these bigger powers, like the United States, like the United Kingdom, they feel like these countries are using the international system to their benefit or national law to their benefit. When it comes to his UK depth to Iran, the U S blocking Iran assets, abroad, us sanctions and things like that. And they go around and use what I consider inhumane method of taking these dual nationals, basically as hostages, they call them prisoners, but as hostages to sort of compensate for what they see themselves weak and dealing with these countries, there's another layer of paranoia added to this.

8 (20m 23s):
There's some factions within their Iranian state actually do believe that some of these dual nationals, people like myself, I've been living in exile and fear of the security forces. I'll probably be, be arrested if I go back to the country and I haven't been in a decade, they do think that these dual nationals, people like myself, Jason, and <inaudible> when I was on anxiety are actually spies and agents have these adversarial governments coming to the country to sort of gather intelligence or foment on rest and things like that.

0 (20m 56s):
So you're saying there's a genuine belief on the part of the Iranian government that people like you and Jason, who in this country, we would just call journalists over. There could be spies.

8 (21m 9s):
It's a combination. So there's the paranoia coming together with that sort of muscle flexing against these larger, as they see imperialists powers. And at some point they see that at works. You know, even if they realize when they catch someone and they put them through days and hours of interrogation and they find nothing, then they say, we might as well, you know, hold this person and get some concessions from whatever other government they have a nationality over and specifically in the case of dual nationals, people like myself, Iranian American, Iranian, Canadian, Iranian, British. These people are the ones who are bridges between these two countries, you know, Iran and the United States don't have the Promatic relations.

8 (21m 54s):
It's very difficult for Iranians to travel to the U S for Americans to travel to Iran. And it's, it's people like myself who go back and forth. They have family ties in, in both countries and they essentially serve as a bridge and part of the Iranian political system, especially the more hard line factions. They don't like that. They don't want to see that

0 (22m 14s):
The Iranian government ever, right. Does it ever take someone who might be a journalist or a teacher or an aid worker who ends up really being a spy?

8 (22m 24s):
It's a very unknown situation. One thing I can say is that, yes, these adversarial governments do send agents and spies into Iran because you see, for example, the Israelis conduct assassinations. They could not espionage. And, and you know, these kind of missions in Iran successfully. So they have to do it with the help of intelligence gathering. It could be within Iranian ranks in the government. There, there is probably agents within the government, but it seems like they're not catching the right ones. At least not fully because these missions goals are conducted successfully. And then you see journalists or a teacher or academics, basically staying in prison while the real agents are roaming around.

8 (23m 11s):
So it may be, they do sometimes catch agents, but they're not very successful in stopping the sabotages and, and assassinations that go on in the country. And that's actually something that the population part of the political elite is really vocal and critical about the security forces that it seems like you're holding all these people, but they're the wrong ones because we see the sabotages terrorists attacks and assassinations continuing on Iranian soil.

0 (23m 38s):
And what does the Iranian government say in response? The United States does this to Iranians too. We have to take hostages to negotiate with the United States.

8 (23m 48s):
Hostage taking really is, is something non-state actors. Do, you know, non-state militias conduct business this way. And that's actually one reason why their on state is not acknowledging that these people are hostages, except for the case of the us diplomats at the beginning and the hostage crisis, where it was publicly acknowledged, this is very different. And they try to put them through the judicial system to sort of make it look like, oh, these are held for legitimate reasons, according to our law and to our national security and all of that. And let's see the United States is doing the same to our citizens when it comes to their running viewpoints. So I would say people who are held in the U S for a violation of us sanctions, I wouldn't call them hostages, per se.

8 (24m 35s):
Yes, there, they violated the law, but the sanctions are not entirely justified. It's a foreign policy tool that the us is using the maximum pressure that's used by the Trump administration. No,

11 (24m 47s):
The responsible government should subsidize a Ron's Bloodlust. As long as it runs, menacing behavior continues. Sanctions will not be lifted. They will be tightened.

8 (25m 1s):
And now the Biden administration is sort of continuing that

12 (25m 4s):
Us lift sanctions first, in order to get Iran back to the negotiating table, no,

8 (25m 11s):
And ordinary Iranian Americans, people like myself are basically financial behaviors are criminalized for us as Iranian Americans. That's not criminalized for a Turkish American or for a Pakistani American, let's say anybody else from the region. And it is because of that political fight between the two countries. So it's a complex issue with so many layers, but at the end of the day, the way Runyon's look at that is that your sanctions are unjustified and you're holding people in jail for violating what's unjustified. And we're sort of doing the same thing, and we want to exchange these people. It's not what the entire picture is, but that's, that's definitely one argument that the Iranians are making when they allude to the prisoner exchange.

0 (26m 1s):
And it's back and forth between the two countries is now a few years into its fifth decade. Will it ever end, or are we just going to hear stories like Jason's forever

8 (26m 14s):
At the end of the day, it's not only about the U S holding Iranians as prisoners. It's also about us Iran, political animosity, and tensions. We're going to see one form of another until these political fights actually stop.

0 (26m 42s):
And the Gar mortazavi is a political analyst based in Washington, DC. Jason <inaudible> who you heard from in the first half of this show is an opinion writer at the Washington post. And he's also got a podcast all about his experience as a political prisoner in Iran. If you want a much more detailed account, it's called 544 days. If you want an abbreviated account, you came to the right place. Our episode today was produced by Victoria Chamberlain it's today explained

13 (27m 47s):
Hey, there it's Neil Patel, editor and chief of the verge and host of the verge cast and decoder. The verge is turning 10 this year, and we're celebrating live in New York city on October 22nd and 23rd with an epic two-day event. Of course, I'll be there along with other notable journalists on the verge and some incredible guests, immersive tech in our experiences all day DJs and great New York food and drinks. For a limited time, we're offering Vox media podcast, network fans $150 off our standard ticket. Go to the verge.com/on the virtual tickets and enter promo code dollar sign nine, nine. Now a checkup I'd love to see either.