1 (2s):
Since, the start of the war between Israel and Temas. We've been hearing a lot about Iran backed militias. One of those groups killed three US service members in Jordan earlier this week.

2 (12s):
We will respond, We will respond strongly. We will respond at a time in place of our choosing. And. that response,

1 (20s):
Iran actually responded today saying it's not looking for a war. Other. Iran backed militias include Hamas.

3 (27s):
One of the largest financial backers and supporters of Hamas is Iran

1 (32s):
Hezbollah Of course.

4 (33s):
We know that Hezbollah and Iran have deep, deep ties. Iran is Hezbollah sponsor

1 (37s):
And the Houthis

5 (39s):
They received substantial funding and weaponry from Iran,

1 (43s):
To. Iran. These groups are not US backed militias. There's something quite different coming up on today. Explained The Axis of Resistance

Vanta (1m 0s):
Support for the show comes from Vanta Dealing with loads of spreadsheets, juggling different tools and having to do manual security checks can be a headache. It's tough to keep up with the demands of today's compliance and security programs. Vanta is a trust management system that wants to simplify things and bring all your trust building efforts under one roof, making growth smoother for your whole org. You can get $1,000 off Vanta when you go to Vanta dot com slash explain. That's VA nta VAT a.com/explained For $1,000 off Vanta.

The Weeds Podcast (1m 41s):
It's an election year, but let's be real. We're not gonna have any real substantive policy discussions, but that doesn't mean we can't do it here. This is the debate, right? This is the fan fiction, like it's not a mystery how to get people to save more. You give them a retirement account, you help contribute to it. That's not the hard part. The hard part is in the, the fictional debate is how do we get there This week on the weeds? The economic policy discussions we should be having.

1 (2m 19s):
It is today explained. I will. King Ali Valez is Iran project director for The International. Crisis Group

9 (2m 26s):
Crisis Group is a conflict prevention organization, which basically operates based on the logic of talking to all sides involved in a conflict, trying to then draw a big picture of what that conflict is about and trying to come up with solutions that we then advocate with the parties and at the international level to try to mitigate or resolve conflict. We

1 (2m 49s):
Called Ali because this week another Iran backed militia group made news.

10 (2m 53s):
Three US soldiers have been killed in a drone attack on an American base in Jordan near the Syrian border. They are the first American military fatalities in the region. Since Israel's war on Gaza began.

9 (3m 4s):
Well, it appears that one of the militia groups in Iraq that is supported by Iran conducted this attack with drones. It appears that they did it in a relatively sophisticated manner. First of all, they targeted a US base that is technically speaking on Jordanian soil. It's very close to Syrian border, but it was the first time that an attack had happened on Jordanian soil. And that's I think one of the reasons that the US was taken by surprise. And also the way they did it is that the drone was following an American drone that was returning to base, and therefore the radar systems confused the hostile drone with the US drone.

9 (3m 52s):
And that's one of the reasons that they succeeded. It seems pretty sophisticated, which means that probably Iranians were more closely involved in this attack. That has been the case in other scenarios. There've already been 165 attacks on US forces in Iraq and Syria since October 7th. Thankfully, none of them resulted in fatalities, with the exception of this one.

1 (4m 15s):
Has Iran claimed responsibility, like how do we know Iran is involved here? For sure.

9 (4m 20s):
Well, in fact, Iran has denied responsibility, but there is a long track record of Iranian financial and military support for these groups in the region. Mostly Shia militias, but some of them are also Sunni groups like Hamas or Palestinian Islamic Jihad and Palestine. But the group that is primarily responsible for this attack, which is a, an Iraqi Shia militia, is actually particularly closed with Iran and often coordinates these attacks with Iran. So the plausible deniability that Iran is after really doesn't apply in this case because of the history of Iran's involvement with this particular group.

1 (5m 3s):
I see. Okay. And this is a term Ali Iran backed militias. This is a term we've been hearing a lot since October 7th. Iran calls this the Axis of Resistance. What does that mean? Can you define Axis of Resistance for us?

9 (5m 21s):
The Axis is comprised of state actors like Iran and Syria, but also non-state actors like Lebanese Hezbollah groups in Palestine like Hamas or Palestinian Islamic Jihad, the Shia militias in Syria, militias in Iraq, and also the Houthis in Yemen,

11 (5m 43s):
Death to America cry Hezbollah supporters in a packed hanger in Beirut, DIA suburb.

9 (5m 48s):
Also, we could include Shia militias from Afghanistan and Pakistan that Iran mobilized to fight in Syria during the Syrian civil War. But what glues all of them together is their animosity towards Israel and the United States that they view as seeking to dominate the region.

1 (6m 11s):
Okay, so Hamas is in Iran's Axis of Resistance. How was Iran involved with October 7th? Do we know yet?

9 (6m 22s):
Well, we have a pretty good guess right now that Iran was actually surprised by Hamas' horrible attack on October 7th. It was not involved in the operation that took place that day, and it basically appears that it actually undermined Iran's strategic objectives at the time. Iran in September of last year actually finalized a prisoner exchange deal with the United States, through which it actually got some economic reprieve because the US released some of Iran's frozen assets happening.

12 (6m 57s):
Now, five Americans have flown out of Iran as part of a US Iran prisoner exchange, along with a release of five Iranian prisoners. Iran is also getting $6 billion that South Korea owed Iran in oil payments that were frozen as part of economic sanctions.

9 (7m 13s):
During the summer of 2023, Iran and the US were engaged in Dees escalatory negotiations, and that is when we saw actually the longest period of no attacks against US forces in Iraq and Syria for multiple months. So that was the trajectory that Iran was on, and I was hoping to resume nuclear negotiations with the US in October, but when it happened, they had to deal with the consequences and they're still dealing with those consequences today.

1 (7m 44s):
Let's talk about October 8th and onward. Where have we seen Iran backed militias? And again, this is a term I feel like we've heard in dozens of different ways in the last couple of months. Where have we seen them become party to Hamas and Israel's conflict?

9 (8m 2s):
Look, October 7th posed a dilemma to Iran because it had two options. One was to sit on its hands and allow Israel to go after a member of access of Resistance Hamas and see it diminished or destroyed without doing anything. The risk there was that it would lose face and it would lose the credibility of this network as a deterrent strategy for Iran to deter strikes on its own soil. The other option was to get involved, get into the fray or encourage its most powerful non-state ally in this network, which is the Lebanese Hezbollah to get involved.

9 (8m 43s):
And the risk there was that it might have lost Hezbollah's deterrent capabilities in a direct confrontation with the US or Iran itself might get dragged into a very costly war. The way Iran squared that circle was to encourage its allies in this network to engage in calibrated and very careful escalation. So we've seen a step-by-step going up this ladder escalatory ladder by both sides in the past few months. And Iran and its allies managed to engage in this escalation in a way that would put pressure on us and Israel, but without it allowing tensions to spiral out of control until this attack in Jordan, which has resulted in the first American fatalities since October 7th.

1 (9m 38s):
The Biden administration clearly sees all of these groups, these militias as instruments of Tehran, and it seems like Iran views it the same way. Iran, as I understand it, came up with the term the Axis of Resistance. Our guys do these groups view themself as Iran's guys?

9 (9m 58s):
Look, there's, there's not a single formula that could be applied across the board. Hmm. These groups fall along a spectrum. On the one end you have Hezbollah in Lebanon whose relationship with Iran is akin to two NATO allies. There's absolute trust, there is full coordination between the two. And at the other end of the spectrum, we have the Houthis in Yemen who are not really an Iranian proxy and have a long track record of even ignoring Iranian advice. And then there are different groups that fall in between different shades of gray. So there's not a single formula that we can apply across the board.

9 (10m 38s):
And understanding these nuances is important because then it helps countering the activities of these groups in a much more delicate manner.

1 (10m 47s):
This is where we should ask or consider what the Biden administration can do here. Joe Biden has said the US will respond to the killings of three US service members in Jordan. Joe Biden also does not seem to want a war in the Middle East. What can he do?

9 (11m 6s):
Well, currently there are no really good options available to the United States. We are in a situation that was predictable that if the war in Gaza was to get dragged on for months, both sides will continue to climb the escalatory ladder and would eventually end up in a situation. The options are going to look pretty unattractive, so the US would have to respond because there have been American fatalities, there's no doubt about it, and it has to be qualitatively different than some of the other strikes that the US has conducted in the past few weeks.

9 (11m 48s):
There have been eight US retaliatory strikes in Iraq and in Syria. They've often targeted Iranian backed groups and weapons depots in Syria and Iraq. In one case in Baghdad, the US targeted and killed a senior commander of one of these groups affiliated with Iran. But overall, none of these attacks have deterred these groups or Iran from continuing these attacks. And right now, I think because Americans have been killed, the US' credibility depends on trying to exact the cost directly on Iran.

9 (12m 28s):
So my expectation is that we will see or strike on Iranian revolutionary guards personnel and assets in Iraq, Syria, and potentially elsewhere, even on open seas. I wouldn't rule out the possibility that the US would target an IRGC naval asset, for instance, somewhere in Persian Gulf or in the Gulf of Oman. But you know, then we will end up in a situation that Iran feels obliged to respond. Otherwise it would be seen in a position of weakness and from their perspective that would invite more US and Israeli strikes on their assets and their interests in the region.

9 (13m 13s):
And unfortunately, this vicious cycle will continue because all that the US or Iran are doing right now is that they're addressing the symptoms, not the approximate cause, which is the war in Gaza. And as long as that conflict continues, unfortunately these tensions will continue and at any moment they can spiral out of control because of mistakes or miscalculations

1 (13m 44s):
Ali Vaez of The, International Crisis Group will be back in a minute to talk about the changing face of Iran backed militias.

13 (13m 51s):
Have y'all seen the hot Yemeni TikTok Pirate LOL? No, I haven't seen this man. How has this guy not come up on my for you page

Mint Mobile (14m 12s):
Support for today? Explained comes from Mint Mobile. Mint Mobile knows you just don't have that much money right now for a limited time wireless plans from Mint Mobile or 15 bucks a month when you purchase a three month plan, that's unlimited talk text, high speed data for $15 a month. Now if you wanna know whether you can keep your phone, the answer to that question is yes. You can keep your phone, you can keep your number, you can keep your existing contacts to get this new customer offer and a new three month unlimited wireless plan for just 15 bucks a month. You can go to Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. That's Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. You can cut your wireless bill to $15 a month at Mint Mobile dot com slash explained. Additional taxes, fees and restrictions do apply. See Mint Mobile for details.

Unexplainable podcast (15m 5s):
This week on unexplainable, we're talking about the slide month of, we're talking about the science of swearing. If you stick your hand in a bucket of ice water, you might be able to tough it out for a bit. But if you start saying something like donkey eater, you'll be able to keep your hand in there way longer. And The stronger you experience, that's where we're just being, the better the painkiller it is, But you don't get the same power from words like fudge only things like Which raises all these intriguing questions about what's happening when we're flaring For new episodes every Wednesday. Listen to Unex explainable.

1 (15m 57s):
It's today explained with Ali Vaez. He's the Iran project director of The International Crisis Group. If you have even hazy memories of the early aughts, you might remember American President George W. Bush coining a term to refer to countries that were in conflict with the US

15 (16m 14s):
States like these and their terrorist allies constitute an Axis of evil arming to threaten the peace of the world.

1 (16m 23s):
Iran's Axis of Resistance appears to be a direct reference to Bush, although the alliances within that access are much, much older.

9 (16m 31s):
Oh, it precedes the access of evil by about two decades. It all goes back to the 1980s when Iran was engaged in a devastating war of aggression that Saddam Hussein in Iraq had launched against Iran. At the

16 (16m 49s):
Beginning of last week, Iraqi MIGS bombed 10 Iranian airfields. The next day the Iranians hit back and

9 (16m 56s):
Three, at the time, Iran was really struggling because it was under an American arms embargo and an entire region. And the great powers were supporting Iraq's war of aggression. In Iran. The

16 (17m 11s):
War with Iran has given Iraq a rare opportunity to brush up a pretty tarnished image.

9 (17m 16s):
And so for a young revolutionary system that had just emerged, it was a pretty traumatizing experience. And the way the Iranians figured that they could put pressure on the West and on the US and Israel was to try to gain what is known as strategic depth means that you fight your enemies not on your borders or inside your borders, where you can't defend, but you try to deter them from striking you on your soil. It's reson debt for its concept stems from the fact that it does not have the conventional military strength to protect itself because it has been isolated and under an arms embargo for many years.

9 (18m 7s):
Iran, I would argue, is an opportunistic power. And what it has been able to do is to exploit chaos in the region.

17 (18m 16s):
Israeli tanks roll into southern Lebanon. Israel's invasion was the biggest development in the area since the 73 war.

9 (18m 24s):
In 1982, Israel's invasion of Lebanon gave them an opportunity to create Hezbollah in Lebanon. With

18 (18m 31s):
Support from Iran and Syria, Hezbollah has grown into a popular movement with a well armed military wing that's

9 (18m 39s):
Been formed then the US invasion of Iraq in 2003,

19 (18m 42s):
Shock and or

9 (18m 44s):
Provided Iran with a golden opportunity to create all of these sheer militias in Iraq.

19 (18m 50s):
Hundreds of thousands of Iraqis were killed. No one knows how many exactly as armed groups fought each other, fought the Americans and killed each other's civilians

9 (19m 3s):
When Saddam fell and he was replaced by a Shia government. This basically created a natural alliance between Iran and Iraq and provided Iran for the first time since the 1979 revolution, with the possibility of projecting power through a land corridor that extended from Tehran to Baghdad, to Damascus, to Beirut. And so it actually strengthened Iran's hands. The Civil War in Syria in 2011 created another opportunity to create even more groups in Syria

20 (19m 42s):
At this joint command center in Aleppo, home to Syrian army soldiers and other pro asset militias. Iranians control the communications giving orders of where to fight. And when

9 (19m 54s):
Saudi war in Yemen created an opportunity for Iran to invest in, in the Houthis

21 (20m 1s):
Shia hti Rebels have bombarded the president of Yemen's home and are trying to overthrow the government, says the information

9 (20m 7s):
Minister, and turn them into the disruptive force that they are today.

22 (20m 12s):
Houthis rebels from Yemen were seen storming a cargo ship in the Red Sea.

9 (20m 18s):
If we understand how Iran operates, then it, it basically gives us much better tools to try to counter it. It's not related to their financial capabilities. So sanctions won't necessarily work. It's not about flexing our military muscles, but it's about depriving them of the oxygen that they need to support this network, which comes through conflict and chaos. So the more the West is able to bring conflict in the region to an end, the less opportunities that Ron would have to be able to support these groups.

1 (20m 54s):
Alright, so Hamas and the Houthis both existed before October 7th, but since October 7th, what they've done, what both groups have done is they've used messaging to, to get themselves noticed far beyond the region. They're not just on the intelligence communities radar anymore. They are literally on my Instagram feed. Is this new? Is this a strategy by these groups to sort of present a different face?

9 (21m 26s):
There is certainly a soft power dimension here that the groups, these groups are fully aware of,

23 (21m 34s):
Yemenis have been flocking to the Port of Alif on the Red Sea to visit the cargo ship, which was hijacked last month by Houthis rebels.

24 (21m 44s):
It's become an attraction for Yemenis from all over. Many come to tour it every day instead of going to parks and beaches, they're now visiting the Galaxy leader.

9 (21m 53s):
They know that at the end of the day, there is also a battle for hearts and minds. And the reality is that what has happened in the past few months, despite all the tragedies in a way, has provided them with an opportunity to recruit more forces.

25 (22m 12s):
We started to see the public opinion shifting as the whole world witness women defenseless women at children to apart.

9 (22m 25s):
The humanitarian disaster that has occurred in Gaza is radicalizing segments of societies in in all of these countries, which Of course makes recruitment much easier for these groups. And in order to be able to capitalize on that opportunity, they have to portray themselves in a positive and polished manner.

26 (22m 49s):
Hui Militias had been targeting ships and the Red Sea on the basis that they have an obligation under the Geneva Convention to stop genocide being carried out in

9 (22m 59s):
Gaza. And I think that's what you're seeing on social media as part of that effort to use this opportunity to grow. As I said, you know, all of these groups in Iran are opportunistic, and the more there is violence and chaos in the region, the more it will be beneficial to them.

1 (23m 20s):
I've seen people on Instagram mooning over the hot Yemeni Pirate

27 (23m 27s):
Rashed, also known as Tim Hhy Chalamet and Jihadi Depp posted this video on social media and received an unexpected wave of comments.

1 (23m 36s):
We're talking about young people who are looking at this young man and saying, oh, to me he looks like one of the good guys.

27 (23m 43s):
Now, it's not clear if he is a pirate, but he has been documenting his time at sea, including videos of him on cargo ships, possibly even one of the cargo ships that was hijacked by Houthis Rebels in November.

1 (23m 55s):
Is the crush on the pirate, even though we might be tempted to not take that seriously? Is that a problem for the United States?

9 (24m 3s):
It is certainly a problem whenever actors that are trying to disrupt the international system and are antis status quo and are forces of instability gain popularity in the popular culture. It's a problem because younger people are going to start imitating them. And again, this is one of reasons that these groups overall see what's happening in Gaza as a golden opportunity because it makes recruitment for them much easier. And then we would have more cases of lone wolves conducting acts of terrorism in western cities, which Of course would create a major problem for Western governments and would not make Israel or US allies in the region safer in any way.

1 (25m 4s):
That was Ali Vaez of The International Crisis Group. Today's episode was produced by Halima Shaw and Amanda Lewellyn. Matthew Collette edited Laura Bullard and Kim Eggleston fact checked. And David Herman is our engineer. I'm Noel King. It's today explained.