1 (1s):
After Edward Bloom, the conservative activists who set his sights on ending affirmative action in college, admissions won. He didn't celebrate very much. He told the New York Times, he went back to his hotel room, talked to his wife, had a little wine, little Ambien, and went to bed. And then apparently he went right back to work. His new lawsuit is aimed at a smaller target than all of college. He's suing an Atlanta venture capital fund that invests in businesses led by women of color. The suit argues that the Fearless Funds $20,000 grant that's explicitly for black women entrepreneurs is discriminatory. A panel of judges agreed and the grant has been temporarily blocked.

1 (43s):
Industry Watchers say, after a so-called reckoning three years ago, they're now seeing more attempts to end diversity programs and initiatives and grants and all of that is Coming up. On today explained

2 (1m 1s):
Education has become a target of Republican outrage as the parental rights movement has gained power and momentum.

3 (1m 8s):
Republicans are very good at sort of mastering the PR of these things. And so I think we're gonna continue to see accusations that there's indoctrination happening in the public schools and that choice is a solution to that.

2 (1m 22s):
I'm Jacquelyn Hill And this week on the Weeds, the Mainstreaming of School Choice and the Future of Public Education. New episodes every Wednesday.

1 (1m 40s):
It is today explained. I'm Noel King. Mirtha Donastorg is a business reporter at The Atlanta Journal Constitution. She covers the space where diversity and business intersect. And so she's been following this lawsuit by Edward Bloom's, American Alliance for Equal Rights closely and even before the suit, she was familiar with the Atlanta based Fearless Fund.

4 (2m 1s):
So the Fearless Fund is a investment firm, a venture capital firm based here in Atlanta. They're relatively new on the scene. They invest specifically in women of color and it was started by black women.

5 (2m 16s):
Women of color are four times more likely to start a business than any other group, but they face a lot of barriers when it comes to getting money, whether it's a business loan or securing investors. It's a problem the Fearless Fund is working to solve.

4 (2m 33s):
They invest in businesses that are in like the food and beverage or beauty and technology spaces. Those are their industry focuses. They've invested in businesses that you might have heard of before like Slutty Vegan. We have

6 (2m 48s):
Thousands of people out here waiting for a plant-based vegan burger.

4 (2m 52s):
They've also invested in Hair br,

7 (2m 55s):
Which is the world's first rain hat that insulates women's hair from the rain and protects their style. So it solves a problem of women running around with bags on their head.

4 (3m 3s):
They've invested in Bread Beauty, which is in Sephora

8 (3m 8s):
Bread. Beauty is a black-owned brand that caters to all curl types and I'm already a fan

4 (3m 12s):
Of total. They've invested in about 40 startups. So the founders of the Fearless Fund are Arian Simone. She is an entrepreneur. I

9 (3m 22s):
Have loved entrepreneurship since I was a child. People say that I would've sold my mother's placenta had I known it had value.

4 (3m 29s):
There is also Ayana Parsons, who is an organizational consultant.

10 (3m 34s):
There's no shortage of women of color founders. What truly is the issue is the funding needs, and that's the problem that we're here to solve.

4 (3m 42s):
The third founder of Fearless Fund is Keisha Knight Pullum, who is better known as Rudy from the Cosby Show.

11 (3m 50s):
Alrighty, don't you talk back to me and no is a no understand,

12 (3m 55s):
But mommy, you're making me feel bad.

11 (3m 58s):
Oh, Rudy, if you don't listen to me, you're gonna feel much worse.

1 (4m 2s):
When the founders of the Fearless Fund talk publicly about what their goals are, what they wanna do, what do they say, what's the mission? So

4 (4m 10s):
They say that they are trying to essentially even the playing field between 2009 and 2017, only 0.0006% of venture capital funding went to businesses started by black women. We

9 (4m 26s):
Knew we had to definitely step up and solve an amazing problem that should have just been in play anyway, we

4 (4m 31s):
Didn't even realize. And so Fearless Fund is coming into this space to try to bridge that gap and to level the playing field, not just for black women, but women of color founders overall.

1 (4m 42s):
So the thing that got them into contact with or trouble with Edward Bloom was they created a grant for black women. What is this grant? Who is it for? What does it promise? Tell me all about it

4 (4m 58s):
Specifically. It's a Fearless Strivers grant. It's been around since 2021. They run it in partnership with MasterCard, even though MasterCard is not named in the lawsuit, they're not a defendant. But essentially it gives $20,000 grants to black women, small business owners.

1 (5m 17s):
Okay? So there is a tangible gap in the funding that black women entrepreneurs get. The founders of this venture capital firm say, we're gonna do something about it. We're gonna create a grant that is explicitly for black women. That doesn't sound like it's hurting anyone, but it ends up becoming central to a lawsuit. What happened?

4 (5m 38s):
So about a month after Edward Bloom and a group that he started successfully challenged affirmative action at the Supreme Court, he decided to sue Fearless Fund over this grant because he said that three members of this other group that he had started the American Alliance for Equal Rights, that three white and Asian female business owners were being racially discriminated against. Because this grant was explicitly for black women only in the eligibility criteria. And Bloom is saying that the members of his group who otherwise would fit the rest of the criteria, are being discriminated against because they're not black.

4 (6m 24s):
They are the plaintiffs in this case, against Fearless Fund.

1 (6m 28s):
What does Bloom's team argue is illegal about the Fearless Funds grant program?

4 (6m 36s):
So after the Civil War, during reconstruction, there was a Civil Rights Act passed in 1866 in order to try to establish legal rights for newly freed black people, including in business. There is a section that says basically you cannot use race when creating, making enforcing business contracts that we are trying to give the rights that white people have enjoyed to black people. That is the central argument of if these grants are legal, is Fearless Fund going into a contract with the applicant and the applicant has to be a black woman?

4 (7m 27s):
Because these grants are for black small business owners. The alliance is trying to argue that it is illegal because this is a contract and you cannot make reinforce contracts on the basis of race according to this law. The Fearless Fund says this is a contracted name only, but not in actuality. This is a charitable donation. And because it's a charitable donation, we get to decide who we want to give money to, who we want to support. That is our first amendment. Right.

1 (7m 59s):
When the founders were asked about their reaction to the lawsuit, what are they saying publicly?

4 (8m 6s):
They're saying that they don't necessarily know why they were targeted.

9 (8m 11s):
My initial thought, I didn't think that this was real.

13 (8m 14s):
You didn't think it was real? What did you think it was? What'd you think

9 (8m 17s):
When the emails came through? I honestly thought it was chat. GPT.

13 (8m 20s):
You did? Yeah. You thought maybe you were being punk? Sometimes, yes.

4 (8m 23s):
Mostly they are saying that we're in it for the long haul, like we are here to fight this. They're really positioning it and see it as an important civil rights fight, not just for themselves and the fund, but they can see potential larger implications if they lose. In this lawsuit,

10 (8m 44s):
This guy Ed Blum that got affirmative action overturned, he also went after some law firms for their diversity programs. Of course he sued us, but what he's trying to do is eliminate any race conscious decision making in America.

4 (9m 3s):
Fearless Fund and its supporters kind of see this as a seminal civil rights fight of our time because they have seen what happened at the Supreme Court with affirmative action in college admissions. And so it feels like there is now this larger effort in their mind to roll back any sort of programs or progress that have been moving the needle or trying to address systemic inequalities for black folks and folks of color overall.

1 (9m 36s):
Okay, so the American Alliance for Equal Rights, this conservative nonprofit, helmed by Bloom sues the Fearless Fund. And then what happens next?

4 (9m 45s):
The suit initially went to district court here in Atlanta, where the district court judge sided with fearless.

14 (9m 54s):
The judge said a lawsuit claiming discrimination can't stick for now,

4 (9m 58s):
And said that because of their First Amendment rights, the grant program could continue. The Alliance then appealed that decision to the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals. And at the end of September, the appeals court sided with the Alliance,

15 (10m 16s):
The two one decision by the Atlanta Base 11th US Circuit Court of Appeals. They have now blocked the program writing that it is substantially likely to violate a federal law prohibiting racial discrimination in contracting.

4 (10m 30s):
Now the appeal process is going on. So the Alliance has to file a brief to a three judge panel by November 6th about why the District courts ruling should be overturned and then the Fearless Fund will reply to the response. Essentially it's back and forth legal challenges, at least through the end of the year.

1 (10m 56s):
You cover this, this is your beat, this is your job. You were surely watching as the decision on affirmative action was handed down earlier this year. I would think of this as kind of Edward Bloom's next step. This is the next thing that he's going to target his workplaces or contract agreements. What do you think this lawsuit tells us about where this fight is headed?

4 (11m 23s):
I think this lawsuit tells us that any programs that seem to be favoring or trying to rectify challenges for black people, for people of color in this country are going to be scrutinized that they are potentially going to be targeted if not with lawsuits, with the threat of lawsuits. And I think business leaders, executives now have this in the back of their mind. Like, you know, if I put in place this diversity program that is specifically for black people or Hispanic people or other people of color, am I going to be sued? Do I need to change language? Do I need to broaden this?

4 (12m 3s):
Do I need to make this a little bit more vague to protect myself, protect my company? And I think that chilling effect is probably one of the bigger impacts that Edward Bloom the alliance and the lawsuit is having on the business community.

1 (12m 22s):
That was Mitha Donastorg of The Atlanta, Journal Constitution. We did reach out to Edward Bloom for comment and he told us the country's civil rights laws don't permit racial distinctions. Adding a useful way of determining the fairness and ultimately the legality of a policy is to apply the shoe on the other foot test. In the case of the Fearless Fund, would a different venture capital funds requirement that only white men are eligible for its funding and support, be fair and legal? If the answer is no, then it must follow in the law that racially exclusive policies that target a different race and sex must be unfair and illegal as well. Coming up how the clubby world of venture capital is reacting to this lawsuit.

Hydrow, Inc. (13m 29s):
Support for today Explained comes from Hydro. Hydro is a state-of-the-art low impact home rowing machine that says it delivers the ultimate full body workout. If that's what you're looking for, they estimate that 86% of your muscles are at work when you row on a hydro. Sarah Frank, my colleague who works on the business side of things at Vox, tried out a hydro While the hydro workouts only took about 20 minutes. After I was done, I really felt like I probably had been working out for at least an hour. I could really feel the burn from my arms to my core to my legs and it felt like I was getting a really efficient workout for my time. You can join the Growing Rowing community at Hydro. You can get early access to Hydro Black Friday savings today. You can head over to hydro.com and use the code explained to save up to $500 off your hydro. That's H-Y-D-R-O w.com. Code explained to save up to $500 hydro.com. Code explained

17 (14m 37s):
From the moment Twitter was founded, no one knew what it was supposed to be exactly, which was kind of great.

18 (14m 43s):
Some people would look at it and say this is the future of communications. Others would look at it and say, this is the public square.

17 (14m 50s):
Eventually it became not so great. What we didn't foresee was that everybody having a voice might produce a global voracious mob. And there was only one place that that was happening. and it was Twitter a year ago in what was essentially the world's most expensive impulse purchase. Elon Musk bought Twitter that made him Twitter's most important user, but he's certainly not the only one to fall for. Its spell. It's a spell that promises attention, connection, and power. I'm Peterous Kafka and I'm hosting Land of the Giants, the Twitter fantasy.

17 (15m 31s):
It's from Vox on the Vox Media Podcast Network.

Mint Mobile (15m 34s):
This season is sponsored by Mint Mobile to learn how Twitter got started, how it got where it is today, and where it's going next. Follow land of the Giants wherever you listen and get new episodes every Wednesday.

1 (15m 57s):
It is today explained. We're back with Dominic Dominic, go ahead and gimme your full name and tell me what you do.

19 (16m 3s):
I am Dominic Madori Davis and I'm a senior reporter at TechCrunch covering venture capital.

1 (16m 8s):
What did you think when you heard that Edward Bloom was suing the Fearless Fund?

19 (16m 11s):
I was stunned and I usually predict everything. Like I go through my head and I have like a bazillion scenarios in my head. I could not have predicted this. I think I was actually like breathless, like I was like, oh my gosh, this is insane. I was on a plane, I think when I saw this I was like, I have to like land the plane or something Like this is insane, stunning. Like absolutely stunning. So

1 (16m 32s):
Let's talk about the venture capital world. The women who founded the Fearless Fund say there are particular inequities that they wanna address. And in the first half of the show we heard from Mirtha Donastorg about what the numbers around those inequities look like. But let's get it from you. Who covers venture capital specifically? What does the venture capital world look like? Who gets to be a part of it?

19 (16m 53s):
Yes. you know something I do with Crunchbase is we team up And. we, we track the amount of venture funding that goes to specifically black founders. And basically like even this quarter, black founders raised point 13% of all capital, which is like a significant drop from the like 1.2% they got last quarter When I was doing the numbers for last year as a whole, I reported that black founders raised about 264 million out of the 33.6 billion that was allocated to startups in Q four. Last year in total, black founders raised about 2.2 billion. Out of 215 billion. 2 billion is a lot of money, but when it's out of 200 billion, you're like, okay, well that's, you know, not that much.

19 (17m 38s):
Same with women. The percentage is always around 2%, 1.9% for all women teams. And even when you break it down by race, it's like, you know, black women get like 0.5%. Basically women and black founders and Latino founders are not getting money.

1 (17m 53s):
What's broadly understood Dominic about why this disparity exists? What's, what's behind it?

19 (17m 60s):
You know, I think that depends on who you ask, right? In my coverage, I always frame this as racism. I'd always map it out. I'm like, this is, you know, economic discrimination and it's always existed in this country. If we

20 (18m 13s):
Think about the black-owned businesses that we've grown up with, they're smaller, they're individual entrepreneurs. They weren't well-capitalized before and their relationship to the banking sector and community banks or, or big banks might have been limited.

19 (18m 29s):
There's clearly a reason that funds and investors are not giving money to black people consistently for the past history of venture capital. There's also the excuses of maybe not, not a lot of black founders are pitching, maybe there's just not a lot of black companies. Maybe the companies aren't good enough. And that's why like always in my reporting I'm like, well, okay, that could be true, but that doesn't explain why you're saying these things, right? Because then you get like social proof of investors telling black founders like your company is great, but do do people really buy like black haircare? Like stuff like that. It's, there's obviously something going on. I do think it depends on who you ask, but I think the numbers aren't lying and there is some sort of economic discrimination happening.

1 (19m 11s):
What then do you know about this type of lawsuit? Is it common? Is it unprecedented?

19 (19m 18s):
Actually, when I was doing my research, because at first I was like, oh my gosh, this is crazy. But then when I looked it up, it turns out the small business administration and the minority Business development fund are also being sued for having programs that target like underrepresented communities. According

21 (19m 32s):
To the lawsuit the agency serves minority businesses owned by African Americans, Asian Americans, acidic Jews, Hispanic Americans, native Americans, and Pacific Islanders. Piper says that violates his rights.

19 (19m 46s):
Another organization called Hello Alice is also being sued for offering grants to black women. How do

22 (19m 51s):
Y'all Elizabeth go here from Hello Alice. And as you might have seen, we are getting sued for our support of small business owners. The

1 (19m 59s):
Person who Sues typically says, what exactly why is this illegal?

19 (20m 4s):
So basically for the minority business development agency, three white men filed to sue them saying that how the funds were allocating money was racially discriminatory and violated the constitution's equal protection clause.

20 (20m 17s):
I couldn't believe that we still have these race-based problems in America. I thought we got rid of this a long time ago. And here I see me, and more importantly, millions of other people who happen to have the same skin color as me don't qualify for certain programs.

19 (20m 33s):
And basically they were upset with that wording because that program said you had to come from a socially or economically disadvantaged background, which those three white men said presumably does not include white Americans. And so the judge agreed, and basically that's, there's like a preliminary injunction, which fearless fund is also under a preliminary injunction. It seems like this is a trend that is happening. And then also when you kind of take a step back, you see policy has become this kind of battleground in venture capital because California just passed a bill requiring firms to break down the diversity of who they invest in. It would

23 (21m 11s):
Force venture capital firms in California to disclose the race and gender of the founders they're funding.

19 (21m 17s):
And Massachusetts is trying to pass some venture capital bills as well. And so you kind of see that there's this tug of war going on where there are people who are trying to push policy to limit the amount of money going to underrepresented founders. But then there's also people who are trying to say, well actually let's, let's not do that basically. So there's like a tug of war going on right now. Does

1 (21m 38s):
Everyone in the VC world know about this lawsuit? I mean it strikes me, it's interesting that these VC firms that are for black women are niche. I mean, based on what you've told me, they are niche. Most of these firms, the people that they fund would be white founders, white entrepreneurs. Is this lawsuit widely known in the world of VCs?

19 (21m 59s):
I think that really depends. 'cause like for me it felt like it was everywhere. And then I spoke to people who weren't like black founders, black VCs, people who were not focused on DEI. and it seems like a lot of people did not know. I think people are starting to become aware. The main question now is how far up is this going? Like, I mean I reached out to some billionaire and

1 (22m 22s):
Can you tell me who,

19 (22m 24s):
Oh my goodness, will he come after me? Mark Cuban, you know, I reached out like when the news first broke I said, you know, do you have any comment on this? He said, I, I had never even heard of this. And I was like, oh snap. This is like everywhere. It felt like it, there's been a lot of big funds that haven't said anything. I don't know if that means they don't know or that they just don't care

1 (22m 44s):
What has been going on in this space, in the space of businesses saying we wanna fill a gap. We are noticing inequities, And, we don't think those inequities should exist. Where does this begin and how has this evolved over the past couple of years?

19 (23m 0s):
Over the past few years you've seen people of color and women especially launching their own funds and being emerging fund managers and really giving back to their communities. And that's because, you know, the, the, the traditional old guard of venture capital is very, very gate cap. And so you saw these new emerging funds pop up trying to give back, trying to do these things. And what's happened to Fearless Fund is it's, it's new but also not new. Every time that black Americans specifically have, have fought to fill a gap somewhere, it's always ended up in the court system. Whether that's from like voting rights to, you know, even the bill that Edward Bloom is using to sue Fearless Fund was like a bill from the 18 hundreds or whatever that was enacted right after slavery just ended.

19 (23m 49s):
and it was, you know, hoping to give black Americans the formerly enslaved free and equal market participation. And so what's happened is kind of, I guess what's, what was always going to happen? Like you had this fund, you have these people who are coming trying to fill in these gaps and maybe this is the next part of the fight.

1 (24m 7s):
And so if this is the next part of the fight, what do you think the broader impact might be? What do you think might be coming? Well,

19 (24m 14s):
Something that's very important to note is that this issue, it's actually kind of split on party lines 'cause fearless fun. Initially they were given the go to continue with the grant and that was by a Democratic judge. But then the preliminary injunction came from two Trump appointed judges who had the majority vote on a panel of judges they could win. But also given the makeup of the court system, given the makeup of the Supreme court, it might just end up being a party issue. If they do lose, I don't think that would be good for Grants And. we also don't know how far Edward Bloom wants to go with this. What happens if he wants to sue a fund that only targets like black and Latino founders?

19 (24m 59s):
How deep can this rabbit hole go? So that's what I think most people in venture are, especially emerging fund managers that care about this issue. I think that's what people are waiting to see.

1 (25m 15s):
Today's episode was produced by Fiona Petros and edited by Matthew Collette. It was engineered by David Herman and fact checked by Laura Bullard. The rest of our team includes Isha Artsy, Amanda Lu Ellen Halima Shaw, Haddi Modi, Patrick Boyd, Isabel Angel, John Aarons father of a daughter, miles Bryan and mother of a son, Victoria Chamberlain. Our supervising producer is Amina Elsi and our EP is Miranda Kennedy. We use music from Noam Hassenfeld and Brick Master Cylinder today. Explained is distributed by WNYC and the show is part of Vox, which is totally free. Thanks in part to contributions from our listeners, you can join us at Vox dot com slash give. I'm Noel King and this has been today explained.