0 (1s):
There are a lot of Republicans running to unseat President Joe Biden, and one of their favorite things to talk about is ESG. They're talking about BlackRock and Vanguard and State Street, and just in case you're wondering what exactly they're talking about, they're talking about financial investment products.

2 (25s):
They're investing the money of everyday citizens, retirees, 401K plans across this country, and they're using that money of everyday Americans to vote for racial equity audits or environmental constraints that most of those everyday capital loaners are not aware of and do not agree with. And more importantly, which do not advance their best financial interests

0 (47s):
On today explained. We're gonna get into ESGs and try and figure out why of all the things retirement funds are a hot button issue in American politics right now.

3 (59s):
Hello, I'm Esther Perel. I'm a psychotherapist and host of the podcast. Where should we begin? I invite you to enter into my office and to listen in on the sessions that I conduct with people from all walks of life, grappling with the challenges and choices in their relationships. Join me in my office every Monday morning for a new episode, listen and follow. Where should we begin on your favorite podcast app?

4 (1m 30s):
It's some of the most expensive meet in the world, but is it even meat? This summer? For the first time, Americans are gonna be able to try actual chicken meat that didn't involve killing a chicken. This

5 (1m 43s):
Episode of Gastropod, we are among the very first people to taste our way through these brand new lab grown offerings. Chicken, hamburger, bacon, salmon, blue fin tuna. We tasted it all.

4 (1m 54s):
We wanted to know whether it matches up to the real thing, but we also wanted to know if it can ever really replace meat from animals. Not to mention keep our planet from going up in smoke.

5 (2m 5s):
Find gastropod wherever you get your podcasts and taste the future

6 (2m 9s):
For anyone over 65 years.

0 (2m 12s):
Today it's explained. Sean Ramas Ferrum here with James Surowiecki. He's a contributing writer for the Atlantic who recently wrote a piece called The Hottest Trend in Investing is mostly a sham. He was talking about ESG. The

7 (2m 26s):
Basic idea is that an ESG fund in theory, and that's, it's very important to say in theory. In theory, an ESG fund is trying to identify companies that are doing well on a variety of kind of, let's call them socially progressive criteria.

8 (2m 48s):
How I'd like to buy a vowel. Yeah, E, well, I thought you

9 (2m 51s):
Might say that. There's that one E and

7 (2m 53s):
That's it. Environmental meaning that they are doing a good job of maybe reducing emissions or managing their operations efficiently from an environmental perspective. S social can mean they are working to improve the diversity of their management teams or their workforces. G governance generally means that they do a good job of having outside directors on their board of directors, that they do a good job of not allowing, you know, the c e O to basically run the company like his or her own personal fiefdom in the like.

7 (3m 33s):
So the promise of ESG investing is that it's going to allow you to invest your money in companies that are doing good things as you think of them, and that it's also gonna allow you to do well so that these companies are also going to give you good returns so that you know you can do well financially while also helping the world in some kind of vague sense. You can find them pretty much from any big mutual fund company. So whether it be BlackRock, which is probably the one that is most associated with ESG funds in the public mind because it's C E O.

7 (4m 15s):
Larry Fink has historically been a big advocate of ESG investing.

10 (4m 21s):
BlackRock was built for these times,

7 (4m 24s):
Or you know, Vanguard has multiple ESG funds, fidelity, et cetera. How long

0 (4m 29s):
Have these things been around?

7 (4m 30s):
So the origins of e ESG investing really go back to the 1970s.

11 (4m 35s):
Corporations produce most of the violence in terms of pollution and hazardous products. They corrupt governments. They in effect make a mockery out of competition and quality in the marketplace as they concentrate the economy in the hands of larger and larger corporations.

7 (4m 51s):
Then it was really called socially responsible investing, and the idea was we wanna invest our money in a way that conforms to our values and we don't wanna invest in companies that do things that we think of as immoral. Basically, among the issues that were important were things like supporting apartheid in South Africa.

12 (5m 15s):
We don't like what's going

7 (5m 16s):
On or selling tobacco, so you wouldn't invest in Philip Morris.

13 (5m 20s):
Marlboro country is everywhere, anywhere in the land

7 (5m 23s):
Or producing weapons. So, you know, this was in the wake of the Vietnam War. So if you didn't wanna invest in Lockheed Martin or don don't know Dow Chemical, which made napalm, I

14 (5m 33s):
Love the smell of napalm in the morning.

0 (5m 36s):
Was it controversial? Were napalm manufacturers up in arms? Was was Philip Morris making a stink?

7 (5m 44s):
My impression is that, that it was never a big enough movement that companies were really, that worked up about it, but it did provoke, you know, one of the most famous articles in investment history, which was Milton Friedman's critique of socially Responsible Investment. The

15 (6m 3s):
Operation of the free market is so essential to foster harmony and peace among the peoples of the world.

7 (6m 11s):
The economist, Milton Friedman, who wrote this sort of famous article that basically argued that the only thing businesses should be concerned with was the bottom line.

17 (6m 25s):
Welcome to the nineties, Mr. Hong

7 (6m 28s):
In the 1990s. You have this kind of variant of it that emerges, which argued that you could simultaneously do good, but also do well from an investment point of view. There were only a few funds that did it. They tended to be kind of boutique funds. The concept was the market as a whole hasn't really recognized this and when they do Stocks of these companies are gonna rise. And also these companies are gonna have higher profits going forward because they've recognized, you know, that these certain issues are important, blah, blah, blah. And again, it was, you know, essentially a kind of a niche, a sort of niche market.

7 (7m 9s):
The acronym ESG really first appears in 2004 in a report that was issued by what's called the United Nations Global Compact. And it basically was a series of suggestions to the finance industry about how they could better apply environmental, social, and governance goals to things like asset management and investing and the like. And so you start to have a growing demand among individual investors in this concept of, hey, maybe there's a way that we could invest in good companies and not invest in bad companies and also make some money in the process.

7 (7m 56s):
And so that's really what you start to see in the 2000 tens, is you start to see a increase in the number of funds that identify themselves explicitly as ESG funds. So the other thing that happens during the same period, and this is really, you can really see it over the last five or six years, this huge boom is you see the emergence of ESG ratings agencies. So they basically go through, you know, the s and p 500 and they rank them on a variety of ESG criteria. And so once you have those, then you have mutual funds that can say, okay, we're gonna use these rankings to, you know, build these funds and we're gonna use computer algorithms to optimize them, blah, blah blah, blah blah.

7 (8m 37s):
And so you end up today with a huge number of funds that identify themselves in one form or another as ESG funds. And you have at this point trillions of dollars under management by these funds. So you know, that's basically where we are today

0 (8m 54s):
And it all works to have a better environmentally conscious, socially conscious, governance conscious financial market. In theory,

7 (9m 6s):
That's the theory. Does it actually play out that way? I think the evidence suggests that in practice ESG investing does not actually do that. Great. A job of encouraging or contributing to environmental, social and governance progress or whatever you want to call it, among corporate America.

0 (9m 36s):
James is gonna tell us why ESGs are really easy to dunk on when we're back on today, explained ExxonMobil and Mickey D's are involved.

18 (9m 46s):
Bottom

19 (10m 4s):
ESG, it's so insane

0 (10m 7s):
Today. Explained is back with Jim Surowiecki who just told us that ESGs, these funds that focus on environmentally minded or socially minded or good governance minded companies don't actually do a great job of, you know, accomplishing much on these ambitious, lofty fronts. I asked him if there was like an ESG police force or regulatory body holding these funds to account.

7 (10m 34s):
No. So there is no government body or even industry body that is essentially saying this is what you have to be in order to call yourself an ESG fund. These rankings mainly come from rating agencies, right? So there are now quite a few of them. They're sort of similar to the ratings agencies for credit. These companies do not always, or perhaps even often agree with each other. So depending on what rating agency a fund is paying attention to or using to build its fund, you're going to have different companies in that fund. And in some cases, in extreme versions of it, you have situations where one rating agency may see a company as a very high progressive, very sort of highly ranked company.

7 (11m 24s):
So for instance, recently M S C, I had Tesla ranked at the top of the auto industry on ESG issues and ftse, which is another agency, had it ranked as the worst car maker globally. Oh man. And Sustainalytics, which is another agency, had it kind of in the middle, right? So you have these like really wide ranges. Wow. So you just, again, if you're just an ordinary investor and you're going to an ESG fund, what companies you get in that fund could depend on what agency the fund happened to be based on.

0 (12m 0s):
And that means what anyone can just say, Hey, where ESG look at all the great stuff we're doing

7 (12m 5s):
In principle. Yeah, I mean when you sign up for a fund, the fund describes what its goals are, what it's supposed to do, what kinds of companies it's investing in. So to that degree there is some kind of contractual, I dunno if you wanna call it obligation, but yeah, there's no strict definition of what counts as an ESG fund. So that's in part you're seeing a proliferation of funds that invest in a wide range of companies, some of which that seem self-evidently Okay, yeah, that's a whatever progressive. Those are progressive companies and then others that aren't. The weirdest one is that you will sometimes find ExxonMobil in an ESG fund,

0 (12m 49s):
Which is weird because the whole thing's like the E stands for environment, right?

7 (12m 54s):
Yeah. So that's the one that's sort of the most obvious where you're like, how is that possible? It

20 (13m 1s):
Has long been accused of understanding decades ago what its product would do to the planet, but continuing to expand to profit and to question the science of global warming.

7 (13m 11s):
You'll sometimes see McDonald's, while McDonald's certainly is, the evidence suggests it's trying to do a good job of, you know, managing its environmental risk and it's cetera, et cetera. you know, it's also selling a huge number of hamburgers every year. So it's a little hard to argue that it's necessarily an environmentally beneficial company, but

0 (13m 33s):
On the social front, grimace is purple and they're very acceptable.

7 (13m 36s):
Yeah, that's true. That is true. That is true.

15 (13m 38s):
Together grimace, we could own this town.

7 (13m 41s):
Yeah, and that also gets to one of the peculiar things about the ESG label is that it mushes together three different things that are loosely connected to each other at best in the case of environmental and social and that there's no necessary connection at all between governance and the other two. Governance is actually, I think, the best defined of them. It has the longest history and there's a very good argument for investing in companies with good governance. And

0 (14m 15s):
Gimme an example of good governance. So

7 (14m 17s):
Good governance is a company that has outside directors who are on its board of directors who are genuinely exercising a supervisory role. These are companies that don't have boards of directors made up of like family members of the ceo, where the CEOs don't have an outsized voting interest and can basically do essentially whatever they want to do. The issue though is that you can have companies that have excellent governance, but that are doing things that are terrible for the environment or in principle that are just, you know, not progressive at all on social issues and vice versa. You can have companies that are doing things that are good for the environment, but that are terrible on governance.

7 (15m 2s):
One example might be Tesla, I mean, whether Tesla's good for the environment is actually a kind of complicated question, but you know, Tesla historically has had pretty bad governance structures because of the way ESG is. It kind of creates this illusion that all these companies are progressive when they're in fact not necessarily at all.

0 (15m 20s):
Yeah, I think it's a high time I ask you that, you know, how do these funds perform?

7 (15m 26s):
Yeah. So the original argument for ESG funds was that they could actually outperform and there just is not much evidence that actually investing in ESG funds is going to lead you to outperform. There's not much evidence that it's gonna lead you to underperform either. And you know, in part that's because if you actually look at a lot of ESG funds, particularly big ones, the makeup of those funds often resembles the makeup of a typical index fund.

0 (15m 60s):
Huh? It's not even that different,

7 (16m 1s):
It's just not that different. So if, you know, the biggest holdings in those funds are often companies like Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Google or whatever, alphabet or JP Morgan. And it's not really that those companies are out there sort of carving out a, a new path on environmental and social issues. It's just that their businesses tend not to be very environmentally intensive necessarily. And to the extent that they are things like server farms and the like, those companies have done a good job of managing their environmental costs just from a bottom line point of view. And so the benefits you're getting versus just buying an index fund, probably not actually that large.

7 (16m 45s):
I think the real problem from an individual investor point of view is if you're going into ESG funds primarily for the reason that you think you're going to do better, basically by doing good, most ESG funds have higher fees than a typical index fund does.

0 (17m 6s):
Huh? You gotta pay to be ethical.

7 (17m 8s):
Yeah. You gotta pay to be good, basically. And so, you know, that's another reason why you're having this boom in ESG funds. It's not because mutual fund companies are necessarily obsessed with doing good or being woke. It's actually that it allows, gives them a way to charge a little more.

0 (17m 24s):
They can make more money off of you.

7 (17m 26s):
Exactly.

0 (17m 27s):
By selling you an ESG bundle that includes ExxonMobil.

7 (17m 31s):
Exactly. I think it speaks to the paradox of ESG investing, which is that even though ESG investing is being portrayed by Republican politicians as this kind of, you know, Trojan horse that's smuggling in, you know, kind of socialist or whatever, left wing goals and turning American corporations into these soft-hearted simps,

21 (18m 2s):
I do think part of this is there, there's woke employees in these companies and the inmates have basically run the asylums. So the, so some of the CEOs bend to that.

7 (18m 10s):
The reality is that because of the way ESG rankings work and the way the industry as a whole has evolved, companies can get very good ESG rankings even if they're not really doing anything at all. That's especially progressive. I think actually the real paradox is that the boom in ESG investing is not really doing most of the things that Republicans say they're upset about. And yet the industry has become an easy target for republicans to seize on

22 (18m 47s):
Because the point of it is to push corporate investors to the left and then of course to punish anyone who dissents

7 (18m 59s):
The backlash against ESG investing, you know, over let's say the last year or year or two has really kind of led ESG advocates to pull back a bit. So Larry Fink in his most recent investor letter did not use the acronym and that was deliberate. He sort of talked about how it's become such a polarizing term that he kind of just is now backing away from it. It's

24 (19m 25s):
Not business anymore. They're doing it in a personal way. And in the first time in my professional career, tax out personal, there

7 (19m 33s):
Is an argument that actually the more hype around the idea that ESG investing is transforming corporate capitalism and making it more environmentally sensitive and more, you know, basically diverse and the like, that the more hype that that idea gets, the less pressure there is on governments to actually do something about climate change. So that there may be a way in which paradoxically, the more you look to the corporate sector to solve these problems, the less you look to government to solve them. And that I think is problematic because I think it's very unlikely that the corporate sector is gonna really come up with solutions to climate change on its own.

7 (20m 19s):
And so in that sense, you could argue that rather than Republicans being opposed to ESG, they should in fact be like, oh, this is great. This just means there's less chance that we're gonna have, you know, climate change regulation or things like that. So.

0 (20m 31s):
So the great irony is by activating against ESGs, they might be advancing policies they don't like.

7 (20m 39s):
Exactly. And they

0 (20m 40s):
Were successful.

7 (20m 41s):
They were successful. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Now we're gonna see more pressure for government regulation on climate change because everyone's like, okay, that ESG thing, we can't really talk about it anymore.

0 (20m 50s):
Is there a better way, I mean, this isn't a new idea for over 50 years at least, people have been interested in divesting from whatever it might be in investing in South Africa in the 1970s investing in, you know, companies that were doing business in Sudan, in the early s in, in getting away from things that are bad for the planet and and getting more of their money in companies that are trying to do good. Is there a better way to do that than this ESG idea that seems to be vague and in some cases utter bullshit?

7 (21m 30s):
I think there are two ways to do it better. One is honestly just to use the socially responsible investing approach and just don't put your money into companies that are doing things you don't approve of.

0 (21m 41s):
So like do the homework yourself.

7 (21m 43s):
Yeah. And there, but there are funds that will do that. The mutual fund company State Street has an ETF where you can buy the s and p 500 minus fossil fuel companies. The other thing is, I do still think the deep green investing model of the 1990s offers interesting promise. So if you have funds where they're spending a lot of time really interrogating executives where they have really rigorous definitions of what they mean by environmental and social standards and the like. I suspect that that kind of investing might in some cases be able to identify companies that you really want your money going into and the like. But the thing that investors need to give up on to some extent is the idea that they're gonna be able to reap higher returns by doing this.

7 (22m 35s):
If you are narrowing the range of companies you are investing in and simply refusing to invest in some companies, the chance that you are going to get higher returns by doing that is almost by definition unlikely. But I do think that the idea that I'm going to simultaneously outperform the market and also invest only in, you know, companies I really like, that's the thing I would just kind of, I think investors should probably just need to move away from. That's obviously in some degree the premise that the ESG industry has been built on. And I just think there's not much evidence that that's actually true.

0 (23m 14s):
Are you saying that it's just hard to be an ethical capitalist?

7 (23m 18s):
It's hard to be an ethical capitalist and outperform unethical capitalists? That's what I would say.

0 (23m 26s):
That's a good takeaway. James Surowiecki is a contributing writer at The Atlantic where you can read his piece about ESG. He's also got a book out called The Wisdom of Crowds. It's all about how large groups of people are smarter than an elite few, sorry, elites. Our program today was produced by John Ehrens We, were edited by Amina Al, fact checked by Laura Bullard, and engineered by Patrick Boyd and Michael Rayfield. I'm Sean Ramis Ferrum. This is today explained.