1 (2s):
Maybe you saw the news a few days ago that the owner of Patagonia was gonna give away his fortune, The stunning announcement from the founder of Patagonia sharing that he's giving away, giving away the $3 billion company. Not only just give it away, give it away, give it away now, but, but bequeath it to one particular cause the climate It's not gonna be owned by a trust and a group of nonprofit organizations, which will then use all the profits, not reinvested into the business to protect the planet On today, explained we're gonna try and figure out if this was philanthropy tax avoidance or a cunning combination of the two, The way I've been thinking about it is it, it might be both things at the same time.

1 (45s):
I, I don't want the fact that they are potentially receiving a big tax advantage to necessarily detract from the reality of what they're doing, which is also pretty radical.

Vax.com (1m 1s):
Hey, I'm Victoria Chamberlain and I produced today explained and I had a pandemic baby. Yep. My kid was born in the fall of 2020. Great timing. After vaccines became available. I watched a lot of people reenter society, but I still felt stuck at home with my unvaccinated toddler well into 2022. And that made me wonder why it was taking so long to get a vaccine approach for kids under five. So I made a show about it to help parents like me. My work is made possible. Thanks in part to support from generous listeners like you. And this month V wants to add 5,000 more contributors to the community. You can make a gift today to help us reach that goal. Just visit box.com/give. And thanks for listening.

Acorns (1m 50s):
One an easy way to start saving and investing. All you need is acorns and your spare change link, a credit or debit card and acorns will round up your purchases to the nearest dollar and invest the difference in an expert built diversified portfolio. On average Acorn's users invest $166 in four months from just their spare change. And if you sign up today, you'll get a $10 bonus investment to sign up and view disclosures, visit acorns.com/spotify.

1 (2m 23s):
Do you now, or have you ever owned any clothing from Patagonia? I do own some Patagonia clothing, but not Patagonia stock because it's a privately held company. David Galles writes about the climate for the New York times, but he also writes about Patagonia the company.

4 (2m 39s):
You know, I actually have known the Shinard family through my reporting and known the company for almost 10 years now.

1 (2m 47s):
David broke some very big news about Patagonia. Last week,

4 (2m 50s):
I would sort of start with the conundrum that the Shinard family and the board were wrestling with, which is what happens to the company after Yon dies. He's 83 years old. Now the company was still entirely held by the four members of the family, Yvonne, his wife, Melinda, and their two children. And they needed to figure out what was going to happen to the company. They spent years exhausting, all the different options that you could imagine selling the company to a values aligned buyer, taking it public, making an employee owned, turning it into a nonprofit, using a spec. And they were really short on any good options that satisfied their key requirements as they described them, which was to really ensure that the purpose of the company not be lost, that it could still operate with the sort of same ethos that it has been for so long.

4 (3m 44s):
And also that the profits from the company not go to just benefit their family, but were really put to work, preserving the natural environment and trying to protect the world, the land and the climate, which is the thing that they for decades have cared most about.

7 (4m 1s):
You know, when the scientists say that we're gonna lose all the big animals first, we're a big animal. Why, why shouldn't we be worried about ourselves like that? It's not that nature's over there and we're over here, but we're all in it together. They

4 (4m 15s):
Landed on this most unusual structure where they have donated 2% of the company to a trust. That's the voting chairs and the other 98% of the company, the common chairs to a 5 0 1 C four nonprofit. And the trust is now essentially a new governing board for the company and will instruct the corporation, which remains a private for-profit company based in vent, California. That's gonna still make all the Patagonia stuff we know to give all of its profits a hundred million a year or more to this new 5 0 1 C four, which will then use that money to fight climate change and protect the natural world.

1 (4m 57s):
You write in your article about how this feels sort of aligned with the way this company's been run from the word. Go tell us about the origins of this company. Let's take a step back and just talk about where Patagonia came from. Not Patagonia,

4 (5m 15s):
Not Patagonia at all. You know what I mean? This is a California company and it really got started when Yvonne Shinard, who was what he called self-described dirt bag, rock climber in the 1960s.

7 (5m 29s):
And it takes the juvenile delinquent to have the, the creativity and the, and the will to, to go against everything that people say you have to do really

4 (5m 40s):
Living out of his car, eating no joke, tins of cat food, right? That were damaged for sustenance. He was truly broke. All he cared about was rock climbing. And he was part of this pioneering group of guys that started like scaling half dome and El capita. And what happened was he realized that the gear they were using for their rock climbing was actually damaging the rock wall. And so he started trying to make better gear. That was less destructive for the rocks that they kept climbing that led them to a small rock climbing business, where they were making that equipment. And in time that turned into Patagonia of the company. Now the whole time, this guy, Yvonne, he has no interest in being a businessman, but the business itself, Patagonia just sort of takes on a life of its own and gets going.

4 (6m 24s):
So they start giving away 1% of their profits to non-profits pretty much from the get go before it's in Vogue, they start using organic cotton. Melinda, his wife says you can run your company, but we are going to have childcare on site for all workers, because we need to let people take care of their families if they're gonna work for us. So over and over this company is going against the grain of what we think of as the way business is supposed to operate.

1 (6m 53s):
I don't wanna be cynical here cuz the childcare thing sounds great. But when you say, you know, this guy didn't wanna really be in this kind of business, how, how does it end up happening? I don't understand how do you end up producing essentially trash and essentially more carbon when you're, you know, essentially a climate activist who doesn't wanna damage rocks. Yeah.

4 (7m 17s):
This is the central dilemma that he and his closest advisors have wrestled with. I've spent years and years talking to him and these aren't the kind of conversations I have with most other CEOs, but the degree to which they are truly sort of self reflective and truly uncomfortable with the tension you just described, I think is what makes the company so unique.

7 (7m 37s):
I've had several times in my life when I woke up and I realized I was part of the problem and that I should do something about that.

4 (7m 47s):
And I don't think they're a perfect company by any measure and, and no doubt about it. They make lots of waste. What makes them unusual is the fact that they're willing to have that conversation, right? They have tried to tell their consumers to buy less of their stuff.

7 (8m 0s):
You know, you've heard of recycled and reuse, stuff like that. You also had to consider, refuse, refuse to buy something just because, you know, if you don't need it, don't buy it.

4 (8m 11s):
And they've actually deliberately slowed the growth of the company and pulled out of certain markets where they felt like their clothing was being used for the wrong purposes and bought by their own sorts of people. And so this tension is exactly what it is, but the reason they keep going is because the Shinard family individually and now the company through this elaborate structure has been using the profits to try to protect undeveloped lands around the world.

1 (8m 41s):
Okay. So this sort of brings us back to where we started this, this immense giveaway of the Shinard fortune of the entire company. Tell us again, how exactly it's gonna work.

4 (8m 54s):
Patagonia was 100% held by the four members of the Shinard family, Yvon, Melinda, and his two children. We don't know exactly which family members owned, how much stock, but the stock had been distributed to all four of them. Over the years. Last month, they donated 2% of the shares. The voting stock to a newly established trust called the Patagonia purpose trust because they donated stock to a trust. They expect to pay about 17.5 million on that gift. The other 98% of the company, the common chairs, which don't have voting rights was donated to a newly established 5 0 1 C4 nonprofit organization called the hold fast collective.

4 (9m 41s):
And because it's a 5 0 1 C4 and not a 5 0 1 C3, which is a traditional nonprofit, they were not able to claim a tax deduction against their income as most people do. If you donate to the world wildlife fund, for example, now that the stock is in those two companies, the trust essentially as the owner of the voting chairs is going to serve as an additional sort of board overseeing the corporation itself, which remains a private for-profit corporation based in California, but it will instruct the company to distribute all of its excess profits after it pays its bills and pays its employees and reinvest in the company, which is still about a hundred million a year to distribute that money to this newly established hold fast collective, which will then use that money for climate action, largely in the form of preserving lands, picking legal fights over development that they don't want to see and supporting things like regenerative agriculture.

1 (10m 46s):
Okay. So that's a lot for people who aren't familiar with corporate finance, but I think essentially what you're saying is the family Fort has found a way to essentially give away the entire company while maintaining control of it and creating this incredible fund for a political cause they really care about the environment. Is that right?

4 (11m 11s):
A hundred percent, right?

1 (11m 14s):
Let's talk about the conversations people are having about whether this is just the most, you know, benevolent giveaway in the history of American business. Or if this is another way of avoiding paying taxes, if the shards had decided to transfer this business in any number of other ways, including selling it, they would've paid way more taxes than the 17.5 million you mentioned. Yeah.

4 (11m 42s):
Yeah. And, and I think the way I've been thinking about it is it, it might be both things at the same time. I, I don't want the fact that they are potentially receiving a big tax advantage to necessarily detract from the reality of what they're doing, which is also pretty radical. But I think it's absolutely important to understand that it, if they had pursued other paths, for example, leaving the company to the children entirely there would've likely been a state taxes there again, we don't know exactly how much equity the children have. So it's hard to calculate that. Exactly. Yeah.

1 (12m 17s):
You've mentioned the kids a few times, the Shinard kids and, and, and one thing that stuck out to me in your article, which, which broke this news, was this nugget you have in there that says that, you know, the kids view all billionaires as policy failures. And, and this is the kind of thing you hear from the Bernie Sanders of the world that, that we shouldn't even have billionaires. And, and there's no way to become a billionaire without hurting other people. I, I wonder what the shard parents make of their kids belief that they themselves are a failure of American policy.

4 (12m 56s):
I think they're proud of it. I think that's why they gave it away. This family is sort of one of one, as far as I've encountered them in my many years of business reporting, huh? They, they really have a strong aversion to excessive material wealth. Like they don't want jets and boats and nice houses everywhere. Yvonne still sort of wears pretty raggedy old clothes. Doesn't have a computer or a cell phone and drives a beat up old Subaru and the children. I don't know exactly how, but also seemed to inherit their family's ethos about some of these things. And, and that was reflected in their agreement.

4 (13m 36s):
Their willingness to essentially forfeit the family fortune, you know, the, the children Fletcher and Claire effectively renounced their claims to billions in inheritance.

8 (13m 48s):
My grandpa gave my inheritance to

4 (13m 50s):
Green peace and that, you know, by, by just about any measure, I think is pretty unique and neither of the children I should add would speak with me. I asked many times over the course of more than a month. Both of them just adamantly denied, but both of them at the end of the day finally sent me brief notes. And if I may, I'll just tell you what Fletcher Chenard who's again, one of the is their only son who's in his forties. And with his sister, Claire works at the company. He wrote to me,

9 (14m 20s):
Generational succession is a risky continuity plan for any business. And it does little to assure that the company's values will remain intact into the far future.

4 (14m 29s):
This meaning the structure they've created, this

9 (14m 31s):
Is the first truly durable option. It brings a sense of relief for Patagonia, my family. And I'm also just happy to stop talking about death, get back to work.

4 (14m 41s):
So that's sort of where they're at. I think one of the reasons people are sort of gut checking it and, and rightly pushing on it hard is because it's so unusual. You know, know like I've been covering business for 10 years and most executives, most workers I meet are motivated by the same thing, which is that they want to get ahead. And this family from the time I've spent with them and many people who know them well just operate on a different wavelength. And they've sort of been doing it for 50 years, which makes last week's announcement surprising, but, but not at all out of keeping with all the signals they've been giving for a half century.

4 (15m 28s):
Now

1 (15m 35s):
You can find the news. David Gillis broke about Patagonia a few days ago over at the times of New York. This whole giveaway is great so long as you agree with the politics of the person doing the giving more on that in a minute on today explained,

11 (15m 57s):
Hey folks, I wanna tell you about another show that I have heard is amazing. It's called this is love. It's a podcast that takes a very broad view of love sharing stories, not just about romance, but also about people doing strange things. That mean a lot to them. Like someone who digs up old backyard outhouses to find hidden treasure and a group of people desperately trying to keep one type of tree alive. Some of the stories are really funny. There's an episode about a guy who puts on a huge pair of fake feet and makes tracks up and down the beach. He spends decades fooling his neighbors and some of the stories are heartwarming. They have won about a man who found a baby on a subway platform.

11 (16m 37s):
Listen for stories about love and all of the surprising forms it can take. You can subscribe to, this is love wherever you get podcasts.

12 (16m 51s):
This past July sprinter TA Gaither was ready to run in the hundred meter dash at the world championships.

13 (16m 57s):
They'll say set, and you'll come up in your set position. And then I heard the gun go off and I took off and then I heard the gun go off again. And then I stopped

12 (17m 7s):
That second gun meant Tania false started, which meant she was disqualified.

13 (17m 12s):
I couldn't believe it because I just knew it wasn't me. There was no way

12 (17m 16s):
Pressure sensors showed. Tania had started 0.09, three seconds. After the gun went off,

13 (17m 22s):
After the gun went off like a mind blown, you're telling me I'm penalized for something I did after the gun went off,

12 (17m 29s):
Officials told tiny her start was just too fast.

13 (17m 33s):
According to what they were trying to tell us, no human can possibly move that fast. And we just couldn't understand what they were saying

12 (17m 42s):
This week on unexplainable. How fast can humans react? And as a rule like this fair, find unexplainable wherever you listen. New episodes. Every Wednesday,

8 (17m 60s):
My grandpa gave my inheritance to

1 (18m 3s):
Today. Explain Sean Ram firm here with Daniel Hemel.

14 (18m 7s):
I'm a professor at New York university school of law.

1 (18m 10s):
Great. And what do you focus on over there at NYU

14 (18m 12s):
Tax and nonprofit organizations? We

1 (18m 15s):
Reached out to Daniel to better understand Patagonia's taxes because they have some pretty interesting implications for our politics here in the United States.

14 (18m 22s):
He's managing to give away $3 billion while paying $17 million in gift tax. Normally, if you gave away 3 billion, you would pay 1.2 billion in gift tax. Ah, so he's cut his gift tax bill by 98%. And he's also managing to avoid any income tax on the huge appreciation of his Patagonia stock.

1 (18m 45s):
I see. So if you were to give away $3 billion, very relatable, this would be the most ideal way to do it without having to pay an insane amount of tax.

14 (18m 56s):
If you were going to give $3 billion to your daughter or son, you would pay the 1.2 billion in gift tax. We allow you to give to charity without paying gift tax. Before

1 (19m 7s):
We get to the politics, we ask Daniel how this particular giveaway compares to some other high profile ones we've seen in recent years like bill and Melinda and their wealthy buddy Warren.

14 (19m 17s):
The gates foundation is a 5 0 1 C three organization. It is a particular type of 5 0 1 C three organization called a private foundation. So how does this differ? The shards are not getting an income tax deduction for the gift to the 5 0 1 <inaudible> that they're creating Warren buffet and bill gates were getting an income tax deduction for their contributions to the gates foundation. It didn't really matter to them because they'd already figured out a way to almost zero out their income tax liability. Hmm. So the shards are giving up that extra benefit. They're also getting a benefit that the gates foundation isn't getting.

14 (19m 57s):
So the gates foundation would run into a big tax problem. If it owned more than 20% of Microsoft stock, or it owned more than 20% of Berkshire Hathaway stock, Hmm. Lawyers are making sure that that does not happen. They would be hit with an excise tax that would ultimately force them to divest.

1 (20m 16s):
So the big distinction here with the Patagonia people is that they're giving away their fortune while retaining control of their company. I asked Daniel if they deserved any extra credit for that, I give

14 (20m 29s):
Extra credit to the buffets and the gates and the shards, huh? They're giving away their wealth to good causes. They're different, good causes. The shards are trying to save the planet from climate change. The gates foundation is trying to eradicate malaria. I'm not sure which of those two is a better cause, but those would be like number one. And number two on my list of really, really, really good causes that said, they're doing this in a way that minimizes their federal tax liabilities, earning billions of dollars, and then directing those billions of dollars themselves without it going through a democratic process. And we might think that that's okay in the shards case and the gates' case and Warren Buffet's case, because they're doing really, really good things with their money, but we probably don't wanna write our tax laws on the assumption that everyone will be as altruistic as the shards and the gates and the buffets.

1 (21m 28s):
And this is where the seemingly great philanthropic environmental spending started to feel less potentially great. These kinds of giveaways can benefit the political causes you hold near and dear to your heart, but also all the other ones,

14 (21m 42s):
5 0 1 C four, doesn't just exempt people who are pursuing causes that I happen to agree with. If you wanted to do the same move, but use your money to advance a deregulatory agenda, then you could do that. And that's basically what Barry Sied is doing with the money that he got from selling trip light,

15 (22m 7s):
Who donated the stock of his entire company, the trip light company of Chicago to Marvel freedom trust, which turned around and sold it for 1.6 billion. His donation will leave behind a dark money political legacy that could last decades.

14 (22m 23s):
Or you could use this move to fund organizations like miss America that are not making the world a better place or a significantly worse place, but probably don't deserve a huge federal tax subsidy tax law allowed the shards to go from wealth of approximately zero to $3 billion without paying much tax along the way, right? In our ideal world, he would've paid tax on these gains as they accumulated the fact that we allow you to amass a lot of wealth without paying taxes also allows Elon Musk to do the same thing and not give his money to charity, but instead use it to fly to space or harass Twitter or whatever he wants to do with it.

14 (23m 7s):
You can use the tax advantages of section 5 0 1 C four status for good or evil. The shards are using it for really, really, really good.

1 (23m 20s):
How did the law come to be that you could essentially avoid paying taxes until you were bowing out or retiring or thinking about the end of your life? If you were someone this wealthy,

14 (23m 37s):
The Obama administration ran into a problem in 2013 where an IRS official admitted that the IRS had been targeting applications for 5 0 1 C four status from organizations with tea party in their name for extra review. Hmm. And this led to uproar that caused Congress to push on the Obama administration to lighten up on regulation of five, one C four S. And at the end of 2015, Congress passed a bill called the protecting Americans against tax hikes act or the path act, which did a bunch of things to 5 0 1 C four S one of which was to streamline the application process.

14 (24m 22s):
Another was to state that contributions to a 5 0 1 C four would be exempt from gift taxes. The shards are sort of side beneficiaries of this tea party, Tempest in a tea pop. So now they can give their Patagonia stock to their 5 0 1 C four. They don't pay gift tax there. The 5 0 1 C four can then take out dividends from Patagonia. They don't pay income tax there. And the 5 0 1 C four can then spend on political campaigns.

14 (25m 2s):
And as long as the political campaign expenditures are less than 50% of the total budget of the 5 0 1 C four, then they're fine.

1 (25m 10s):
So if you're an environmentalist out there, this is at once. Cause for celebration, as well as a reminder that if Peter teal retires in a couple years and wants to give all his money away, he can do the same thing, but perhaps in a way that you won't be so excited about

14 (25m 27s):
Peter, Teal's an exceptional case because he's got most of his wealth packed into Roth IRA.

1 (25m 36s):
Yes. Which we've covered before the show,

14 (25m 39s):
He can take it out and buy a private island. He doesn't have to do anything even quasi charitable in order to get, okay. The money out tax free climate change is a threat to the planet. So we should be happy that the shards are doing this. We also need to clean up our tax code. I spent a lot more of my life thinking about the tax side than the climate side, but I recognize that these are not equivalent problems. Climate change is an existential threat to humanity, the tax loophole for 5 0 1 C four S is not an existential threat to humanity. It's something that we probably ought to fix. We're not gonna die. If we don't Daniel Hemel, NYU, our sure was brought to you by Victoria Chamberlain Fox.

14 (26m 29s):
She had help from Laura Bullard and Paul mosey it's today explained.