1 (3s):
It's been six months since Russia dramatically escalated its war with Ukraine. And there appears to be no end in sight.

2 (10s):
The state department is saying it has information that Russia will increase its attacks on Ukraine in the week ahead.

1 (17s):
And this whole time Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky has been asking for escalation. He wants the United States to declare Russia, a state sponsor of terror

3 (29s):
<inaudible> sponsor of terrorism.

1 (33s):
And now he's got the unanimous backing of the United States, Senate and Nancy Pelosi, but president Biden and secretary of state Blinken are holding back the case for, and the case against declaring Russia. A state sponsor of terror coming up on today, explained

Citi (60s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action that together cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology and provide access to essential services like education, health care, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the us. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G

1 (1m 49s):
They explained Sean Rama's from here with Delaney Simon. She's a senior analyst at the international crisis group. It's a think tank dedicated to preventing wars and delays going to help us understand the gravity of declaring Russia. A state sponsor of terror, a designation she thinks is a bad idea.

5 (2m 8s):
There have been calls that have been sort of increasing in weight over the past several months, starting as early as April for Russia to be designated as a state sponsor of terrorism. The call is initiated with president. Selenski asking the secretary of state to designate Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism,

6 (2m 28s):
Presidents, Linsky, and a call to president Biden asked the president to declare Russia, a state sponsor of terror

3 (2m 34s):
<inaudible> sponsor of terrorism.

5 (2m 38s):
And since April, it's just gathered momentum. There have been politicians from other countries calling for this designation,

7 (2m 45s):
Not VNM PS have declared Russia, a state sponsor of terrorism saying its invasion of Ukraine amounted to genocide.

5 (2m 53s):
The Ukrainian parliament has been lobbying Congress at the, in the United States to make this designation. The Senate issued a resolution calling on the secretary of state to designate Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism.

8 (3m 6s):
The United States Senate all hundred members are urging the Biden administration to designate Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism.

5 (3m 14s):
And then recently the house of representatives introduced a bill that would designate Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism. The speaker of the house of representatives also called the designation long overdue.

9 (3m 26s):
If Russia is not listed as a state sponsor of terrorism tear up the list.

5 (3m 32s):
So there's been a lot of pressure on secretary Blinken, but so far he's resisted pressure to make the designation

10 (3m 40s):
In terms of other designations based on actions that that Russia is taking. We, we are, and we will look at everything.

5 (3m 49s):
He recognizes the horrific incidents of war crimes that have happened in Ukraine

11 (3m 56s):
More than 50 innocent people trying to flee the fighting killed in a Russian missile attack on a crowded train station among the first responders, investigators gathering evidence to determine if this is a war crime,

5 (4m 10s):
He recognizes the pressure to put as much pressure on Russia as possible to stop brushes onslaught on Ukraine, to put an end to the horrific war crimes we're seeing. I think he recognizes that this designation actually would be counterproductive and could have real costs, not just on us restaurant relations, but also on multilateral relations in multilateral institutions more broadly. And then in addition to that, I think he also recognizes that it could have real costs on Ukraine and on efforts to end the war there.

1 (4m 45s):
Let's dial it back a second here and just talk about what it means to designate a country as a state sponsor of terror. What does that do?

5 (4m 55s):
The designation triggers basically two separate buckets of law. One is sanctions, and one relates to sovereign immunity of Russia. So on the sanction side, the state sponsor of terrorism, designation triggers, export controls for Julius items. So that's items that have both civilian and military uses it also restricts access to debt relief and international financing. It also prompts some other restrictions. And it's a little bit difficult to put your finger on these because they're not specified in the statutes that underpin this designation that cumulatively become sort of comprehensive sanctions that target entire economies or entire populations.

1 (5m 36s):
Okay. So that's bucket one, a whole lot of additional sanctioning stuff kicks in when you're designated a state sponsor of terror bucket two,

5 (5m 45s):
You have sovereign immunity. And so most states all states that aren't state sponsors of terror are entitled to immunity under us law, which basically means that a U S court can't involve a state in a prosecution. So like I'm a us citizen. I can't take, I don't know, Germany or the United Kingdom to court in the U S but a state sponsor of terrorism designation limits that sovereign immunity. It means that a us national or us government employee or us contractor or us service member can Sue the designated country for certain defenses. So what's interesting in this case and in the other state sponsor of terrorism cases is that assets of that state are already frozen because of us sanctions.

5 (6m 32s):
And it's possible for me, if I win my case and I'm suing the state to have the damages be distributed through those blocked or frozen assets.

1 (6m 41s):
Okay. Bucket two, your sovereign immunity is limited opens you up to lawsuits, losing even more money.

5 (6m 48s):
In addition to those penalties, the designation can also result in a range of other nebulous effects. And part of the reason why the effects are so nebulous is because the state sponsor of terrorism designation is so tied up with this idea of stigma. And this is in part because the U S government has used this designation on countries that are its enemies countries that are considered pariahs. And so the designation in and of itself can prompt this chilling effect. I mean, you're already seeing this a little bit in Russia where companies are pulling out of Russia, just because the reputational risks of engaging with Russia are so high

12 (7m 26s):
And money watch a mass Exodus of major international companies is underway in Russia, following its invasion of Ukraine. The number of companies added to the list is growing by the hour.

5 (7m 37s):
I think with this state sponsor of terrorism designation, you may see as you have in other countries, that stigma is getting even bigger because a state is linked to terrorism and therefore the stigma is bigger. So what we've seen in other countries is that firms will, will just stop engaging with the state sponsor of terror, even if technically their engagement is allowed.

1 (7m 59s):
All right. So on top of bucket, one sanctions and bucket two limits on your sovereign immunity, you've got bucket three, the nebulous stuff, serious stigma. Let's talk about the countries that are currently designated state sponsors of terror by the United States.

5 (8m 16s):
The states that are currently on our Syria, Iran, North Korea and Cuba. There are so many other sanctions on these states and already they're engaged in behavior. That's made them pariahs. The U S does not have diplomatic relations with those countries. It doesn't have multifaceted relations with those countries. The way that the U S engages with those countries very different to the way that the U S engages with Russia

13 (8m 41s):
As you're affectively prevents anyone around the world from doing business with Syrian officials or government institutions,

5 (8m 49s):
None of those countries are permanent members of the security council. None of those countries are involved. The CE the

14 (8m 56s):
Organization for security and cooperation in Europe is the world's largest regional security organization.

5 (9m 3s):
None of those countries are involved in complicated peace discussions with international stakeholders, for instance, on Georgia, on Libya, on Molly. And so the United States has a very different relationship with those countries than it does with Russia.

1 (9m 17s):
So how would designating Russia a state sponsor of terror, as opposed to say an Iran or North Korea, or a Cuba or a Syria effect Russia standing in the world, as well as the United States, his relationship with Russia,

5 (9m 32s):
It's safe to assume that the designation would be deeply insulting to Moscow. One of the legal requirements for the rescission of the designation is regime change. I think because it's baked into the laws that underpin the state sponsor of terrorism designation, president Putin would probably regard the move as an overt call for change in Russia's government. And as we know, president Biden has explicitly said that he's not looking to force president Putin from power. It wouldn't be surprising to see Putin linking the designation with that explicit call,

1 (10m 12s):
Which would be an escalation,

5 (10m 15s):
Oh yeah. Something that the United States has done well and carefully throughout this whole war in Ukraine is to contain the U S Russia relationship and prevent any kind of escalation, which could frankly be extremely damaging unthinkable to global peace and security.

1 (10m 33s):
And that's why Blinken and Biden have taken this step, even though it sounds like Congress is into it.

5 (10m 41s):
I think that's part of the reason. I mean, I think there are also other effects that are concerning. There would be lawsuits in us courts pursued by us citizens against Russia. Those claims might detract from an eventual peace settlement and could also detract from potential damages or reparations or some post-war settlement that Ukrainians could get. When there is a moment for negotiations, it's important to arm the Ukrainians with as much as we can. And I would be worried that these cases would take away leverage when a peace negotiation comes into play.

1 (11m 23s):
After we speak to you, we're going to speak to a Ukrainian parliamentarian about why she thinks this should happen. If you were speaking to someone in Ukraine who said, my families fled the country, my friends have died. I don't know where members of my family are right now. They're fighting this war with Russia. And they told you about the atrocities they'd seen or heard about what would you say to them as to why this shouldn't happen?

5 (11m 51s):
I'm glad that you asked that question because really don't want it to sound like my arguments would be not in support of the people of Ukraine. Actually, the reason why I'm arguing against a state sponsor of terror designation is for the people of Ukraine. And I know it seems counterintuitive, but I worry that down the road, this will make it harder to end the war we've seen. In other cases how difficult it is to remove this designation. I mean, sanctions in general are notoriously hard to ratchet down. They they're normally ratcheted up, but they're hard to remove. And a state sponsor of terrorism designation is really hard.

5 (12m 34s):
Sudan is a great case of a country where all comprehensive economic restrictions were lifted in Sudan.

15 (12m 41s):
As you see the American and Sudanese flags are flown in a spontaneous, popular, joyful reaction. This is an indication that the sanctions have had a heavy toll on the people and the economy.

5 (12m 52s):
This particular designation was so sticky that it took three years for it to be removed. And I'm convinced that if Russia were designated as a state sponsor of terrorism and negotiations were to happen related to the war in Ukraine, Russia would ask for the designation to be lifted. But for a whole lot of reasons, I think it would be difficult to lift the designation for one of these designations to be lifted. There's two routes. The first route is the president has to submit a report to Congress that says that the state has undergone a fundamental change in leadership and policy one C supporting acts of international terrorism to and provided assurances that it will not ABET such acts in the future three.

5 (13m 38s):
And then the other route is that the president has to confirm that the state has one refrain from supporting international terrorism during the proceeding six month period, and to provide provided assurances that it will not resume supporting them in the future. When there is a negotiation about ending the war in Ukraine, it's hard for me to see Russia fulfilling any of those criteria. I mean, fundamental change in leadership, very unlikely. Can you imagine Russia providing assurances that it will not resume supporting terrorism when it doesn't agree with the reasons why the designation was put in place in the first place? It's just hard for me to see. And so if it's difficult for the United States to lift the designation, then the U S doesn't have as much leverage.

5 (14m 22s):
If Russia asks for the designation to be lifted and the U S struggles or takes a long time to lift the designation. I think it actually hamstrings the United States and Ukraine at the negotiating table. I should make it clear that the atrocities that are happening in Ukraine are unconscionable. And I believe that the international community should do everything that it can to put a stop to them. I just don't think that this designation will help that. I don't think that the designation will change the trajectory of the conflict in Ukraine. I don't think that that the designation will change president Putin's calculus.

5 (15m 2s):
I think instead it will have counterproductive effects down the line, and I'm, I'm concerned about those. I understand the impetus for it. It makes complete sense to me, but it's really difficult when you start diving into what the real policy implications would be of this designation. And you realize actually that they would be negative.

1 (15m 23s):
That was Delaney Simon with the international crisis group, arguing why it's a bad idea to designate Russia, a state sponsor of terror. The counterargument, when we're back on today, explained

Citi (15m 46s):
Net zero carbon emissions, zero racial wealth gap, zero poverty. Those are ambitious goals and to help reach them, the world needs to take action together. Cities committed $1 trillion in sustainable finance by 2030 to facilitate innovative solutions like renewable energy and clean technology, that money will help provide access to essential services like education, healthcare, and affordable housing. They're also helping close the racial wealth gap and increase economic mobility in the U S but that's just a start. Having ambitious goals is what helps the world to make meaningful progress. And it's going to take all of us working together to make sure we continue to move in the right direction because to address these worldwide problems, it's going to take worldwide action. It takes everything to reach zero for the love of making a difference for the love of progress. Learn more at citi.com/e S G.

16 (16m 48s):
What did dinosaurs sound like? Here's Jurassic parks tape that roar was mostly made up of mammal sounds, but dinosaurs were a lot closer to huge bird. And instead of a roar, they might've had more of a punk.

17 (17m 7s):
It's a honk, but it's like a tuba honk.

16 (17m 10s):
The biggest deepest weirdest honk you can imagine

17 (17m 13s):
Get to tubas and having them play two different notes, and then they could rumble. And while your body is still shaking from the rumble, they could blast you with two very low notes. You could get real interesting

16 (17m 38s):
This weekend. Unexplainable, is it possible to figure out what dinosaurs actually sounded like scientists are giving it their best shot, new episodes, every Wednesday, following an explainable, wherever you listen.

1 (17m 57s):
We're back today explained we wanted to hear an argument for declaring Russia, a terrorist state. So we turned to Keefe.

18 (18m 5s):
I am Rudy member of Ukrainian parliament and leader of the hottest party.

1 (18m 11s):
As you'll hear Kira Rudin thinks Ukrainians and the rest of the world have got nothing to lose in declaring Russia, a terrorist state.

18 (18m 20s):
Absolutely. This is one of the key sanctions key statements that need to be made not only in the United States, but also in other jurisdictions, why it is so important is it provides secondhand sanctions. So right now, when European countries, Britain us are cutting rush out of the markets. Russia is easily finding the new ones. Look at the south American countries, look at the African countries, Asian countries, and it will continue being a problem because Russia will always have like somebody else who will give them a hand, acknowledging them as a state sponsor of terrorism creates this status of non-con shakable country.

18 (19m 9s):
So everyone who will be doing business with Russia, who will continue being a provider who will be doing the expert to Russia will also be a subject to the sanctions from the U S side. And I believe it will have incredibly strong impact even on the political level. My main direction of international work right now is unfreezing of the seized Russian assets in different countries and making them being used on behalf of Ukraine or to the support of Ukraine. If the country is a state sponsor of terrorism, then the central bank assets can be seized and used.

18 (19m 51s):
And this is why we need this legal background. We need this statement because then we can work on top of it. And this is why we are calling for yes, Congress. We are calling for violin to, to finally make this decision.

1 (20m 5s):
We spoke with a guest from the international crisis group, and they seem to think along with president Biden and perhaps secretary of state Blinken that this designation of Russia as a state sponsor of terror could make it more difficult to negotiate. A peace deal for Ukraine could make Russia less willing to participate in peace negotiations with Ukraine. What do you think of that argument?

18 (20m 32s):
It hurts me because it implies that we will be in the peaceful negotiations with Russia without an appropriate amount of security guarantees. Look, I have to Boucher after it was liberated. The first day I have seen the road covered with bodies. I have seen females by this that were tried to be burned to cover for what happened to them. We have seen are where people being killed, tortured, raped, and we cannot imagine having like some peaceful deal with Rasha without knowing that it would not be repeated.

18 (21m 17s):
The war did not start on February 24th. It started eight years ago. And we know for sure what Russia is capable of. We know that they are not keeping their word, and we know that all negotiations, all the deals with them, they're just useless. They are not even worth the paper that they're written on. And only way only way for us to get into any deal with Russia is to know who's vouching for them who are the world leaders, who will say, okay, so let's make this deal. But if Russia attacks again, then what? And so then the argument saying, okay, we should let ourselves have this space to negotiate with.

18 (21m 58s):
Russia is absolutely crucial because we do not need this argument. We need an idea of how the world security will look like and how we are getting the protection let's work right now on using them put in money to cover focus crimes. It's so unfair that the taxpayers of the country that are our allies should be paying for what Putin is doing out of their pockets. And if for this to happen, we need to acknowledge Russia, state sponsor of terrorism. Then let's do it. I think this argument is extremely weak and they think it's inhumane.

1 (22m 36s):
How about the argument that designating Russia, a state sponsor of terror would be viewed by Putin as an escalation of this war would be viewed as an escalation from the United States and perhaps would make him feel even more isolated and thus, perhaps even more free to escalate the violence, the rape, the brutality and Ukraine.

18 (23m 9s):
So what do you think he will do? What should be weep? Should we be afraid of my nation? And my people suffered every single possible crime on their work crimes list. Right now, I am so upset that everybody's talking about what Putin sinks would put in fields, what Putin will do. And when do we should distinguish about what we are going to do, what the United States are going to do, where they are, where they are, our lives are going to do. The whole world was watching how my country was being, being torn apart for eight years. And right there still the same also, whatever we'll do it, we'll make Putin feel more free.

18 (23m 51s):
What else do you think you will do?

1 (23m 53s):
I understand why this is such a difficult conversation and why some of these questions seem absurd to you. But I suppose if you accept that Vladimir Putin is not acting rationally and can lash out at any point, even worse than he is now. And that he is a man who controls a nuclear arsenal. Do you think there's a risk in pushing him too far in a moment like this?

18 (24m 21s):
It's our fight. We are taking it. And we are asking you guys, we are asking president Biden saying, please do that. Because, because it's as horror victims, we know that we will be fighting this fight for a longer time. And we are saying how best to push it. If he starts attacking us with different other weapons, it will be asshole, be dying for the right. And we are saying that we are taking this risk. We are saying, okay, let's go ahead. You know, how they calling what they're doing in Ukraine, salami technique, when they're cutting piece by piece, it's our country that he's treating as a piece of meat.

18 (25m 5s):
It's our people, men and women and children and elderly who, who are being treated as, as pieces of meat. And this is absolutely unacceptable how we can live in the world where he can still do what he's doing. And everybody's just saying, yeah, well, we should not be probably annoying him. I will ask you. So what the plan then, because I have talked to almost everyone and what they have not heard is a plan.

1 (25m 45s):
Kira runic, she's a member of the Ukrainian parliament and the leader of the Holos party based in Kiev earlier in the show you heard from Delaney Simon from the international crisis group, our show today was produced by John errands. Fact-checked by toy Dominguez and mixed and mastered by a FIM Shapiro. I'm Sean Robins from it's today explained.