3 (1s):
Support for the show today comes from Rise.com. It's an all-in-one system that makes online training easy to create enjoyable to take and simple to manage create training from scratch or customized hundreds of pre-built lessons templates and Sample courses to build training even faster Learners love rides because training is beautiful and interactive managers love rise because training is simple to create distribute and analyze and it loves rise because it's completely secure see what you will love about Rise by starting a free 30-day trial at rise.com today.

3 (41s):
It's today explained. I'm Sean Rama's firm coming at you from my closet because the District of Columbia is still under lockdown but being in this closet is a reminder that this is still very real because when you go outside, you can forget people are wearing masks but a lot of people aren't some people follow social distancing rules at the grocery store, but a lot of people don't people Don't take trips. People are getting together in groups. Again, you can easily forget that we are in a crisis as we inch closer to the end of May. It's clear that the United States will soon reach a benchmark. That would have been Unthinkable when we first started talking about this coronavirus back in January 100,000 American lives lost as far as we know from the data we have that's close to a third of the planets death toll it's a huge number like World War one big but you'd never know that that from the way the president's responding most recently.

3 (1m 33s):
He's been threatening to pull the United States out of the who he's been tweeting out memes of doctored videos writing fanfiction about Obama gate and without any evidence of its efficacy pushing hydroxychloroquine all while paradoxically refusing to wear a mask or gloves. Do you ever wonder how many of those hundred thousand lives we could have saved with different leadership. Do you ever wonder how much? This is Donald Trump's fault. I asked Ezra Klein. If this is Trump's fault

1 (2m 7s):
is the fact that we don't have a plan a national plan within 60 days after Trump declared a National Emergency. Is that Donald Rumsfeld? Yeah, that's Donald Trump's fault aside from at an early Time closing the borders to China somewhat their Administration released guidelines. Donald Trump is not follow those guidelines either in his personal Behavior or in what he says for instance those guidelines tell the states that he was tweeting. Eating should be liberated to remain closed. They've not fix a testing problem not set up a national surveillance and contact tracing program. None of it. Like you cannot go to whitehouse.gov and find a plant like there isn't one. They actually haven't done it Bill still States cannot issue dead.

1 (2m 47s):
So the revenues are collapsing so they can't spend some of the money they need to spend right now. The federal government could fix that problem. The federal government needs to handle Supply coordination. So you don't have States bidding against each other in ruinous bidding wars. Not only are they not doing that at Federal government has been bidding against the state's. There's this amazing thing where the governor of Maryland a republican Larry Hogan. He actually said to The Washington Post or when he got 500,000 testing kits from South Korea. We flew in a special flight of Korean Air passenger plane flew into BWI Airport the first one ever no passengers, but a really valuable payload and had them protected by state troopers of the Trump Administration couldn't take them from him and then obviously it's probably good not to try to foam it domestic Insurrection against governors.

1 (3m 30s):
If you're trying to support them and what they need to do to keep the state's safe

3 (3m 33s):
minutes after a Fox news report on the demonstrations the president began tweeting liberate Minnesota liberate, Michigan and liberate Virginia states with Democratic Governors. Why is there no plan at this point. How does it benefit the president to let States fend for themselves and not have a clear message for the American people.

1 (3m 54s):
There's so much here and I am infuriated by this. Like II want to be honest about where

3 (4m 0s):
As a journalist. I have never covered

1 (4m 2s):
a abdication of presidential leadership where we are this far into a national crisis and there is simply a president playing president on TV and refusing to do the job behind closed doors and keeping importantly other people from doing the job behind closed doors. He is not letting the states just do what they need to do. As I mentioned. He's often getting into direct fights with Governors. He

3 (4m 25s):
said in front of cameras to vice president Mike

1 (4m 29s):
Pence who is running Running the administration's response.

3 (4m 32s):
He calls all the governor's I tell him I mean, I'm a different type of person. I say Mike don't call the governor of Washington you wasting your time with him. Don't call the woman in Michigan. So I mean they have the president saying that the federal government should not be

1 (4m 44s):
coordinating with the governor's he does not like at all and know what is crazy about the whole situation is it is not in his interests. He is not handling this in a way that is going to be politically good form. Look. He's holding his base as he always seems to do. But he's not being able to get any rally around the flag effect because he's been erratic because he is not projected an air of confidence because he's now trying to get people to focus on scandals. He's making up from the Obama Administration. I mean, this is not what people in general want right now is part of

3 (5m 17s):
the issue. I mean you mentioned Washington State Michigan New York State all run by Democratic Governors is part of the issue here that quote unquote his states red States. States where he won aren't as hard hit at this point by the pandemic.

1 (5m 38s):
This has definitely been true at the beginning. There's no doubt about it and the worst-hit places. I mean the worst that place was New York City and the Very dense cities which in this country are all blow are at the most intense danger of an uncontrollable outbreak, but if you now look at it, New York City New Jersey are going down and it is other parts of the country that are going up and it is particularly true. Best parts of the country going up and that's one reason. I really don't think this is going to be a good strategy for him two or three months from now, you might have some areas of the country that are very Trump friendly that are in total

3 (6m 11s):
chaos. Do you think he'll pivot if there's a second wave that affects, you know, quote unquote his States we think about that answer

1 (6m 19s):
this. I don't think at this point and this is maybe a controversial thing for me to say that he is capable of pivoting in the way that we're talking about there a couple things really very consistent intuition like immigration, but there's not anything really where he does it consist in strategic approach and the hard thing about coronavirus is it would be an incredibly difficult problem for even the most plan oriented president. It's very very very hard governance work. It is not work. The Trump has ever been willing to

3 (6m 53s):
do before we were in a pandemic before we were in a crisis. I interviewed James Carville, and we talked a lot about this upcoming presidential election and his money was in was on Biden all the way, you know people they going to vote for him as long as you don't talk them out of it. So it's his to lose you really think it's his to lose I do and I wonder you know Carville came up with this phrase It's the economy stupid the economy isn't doing so well right now, but Donald Trump has a has a history of breaking. In political norms and conventions could eat transcend this mess do you think or is this so bad that he'll actually have to face the

1 (7m 29s):
music? I don't think that if the economy remains a disaster through election day, Donald Trump is getting re-elected. Look Donald Trump is a political Phenom but not a political genius is who I would put it and there is a mythology among liberals it everything. He does politically works out, but it doesn't Donald Trump's incredibly impressive Act was to win the Republican primary which has to do with the desire among many Republicans to realign their Can party along more ethnic Nationals lines, but Donald Trump won because of the electoral college, but he lost the popular vote. He was not unbelievably popular.

1 (8m 10s):
We have never had a president in the history of polling that has never broken on average 50% certainly not during an economy that has been as good as when he is often experienced. So if you sort of adjust Trump if you imagine what should have been possible for a president presiding over an economy with sub 4 percent unemployment. He should have been higher than 44% Trump got destroyed in the 2018 elections if you look at what's going on in the polling right now. I just check this out the other day at this point in 2012 Mitt Romney the Challenger to an incumbent president was trailing Barack Obama by about three point five points. That is roughly what ended up being the margin of the election if you look right now Joe Biden the Challenger is leading Donald Trump the president by By between five and six points and that's been a pretty steady lead throughout the campaign.

1 (9m 5s):
That is not where you'd want to be now could Trump win. Yeah. I don't know what's going to happen in November. I don't know what the conditions are going to be. But if in November, we have the level of economic pain that it looks like we're going to have and remember Republicans are getting to talk about cutting off save expanded unemployment insurance. They don't want to give Aid to states and cities. So what's right now feels to a lot of people like temporary economic pain. Is going to turn into something that is beginning to feel very permanent. Right? This is the new normal and The New Normal is agonizing and Trump is not leading a charge among Republicans to keep that from happening if he were being Savvy on the economy and doing what he needed to do to keep it under support right like he, you know decided to support the jayapala paycheck guarantee act subsidized paychecks like I could see a version of it, but if he Let's just turn into an economic depression.

1 (10m 2s):
No, he's not going to escape that he's already at a bad point and then it's going to get

4 (10m 6s):
worse.

3 (10m 24s):
After the break, I'll ask

1 (10m 25s):
Ezra if the Democrats could have done more to protect people during this

4 (10m 29s):
pandemic.

3 (10m 45s):
You ever watch that movie Good Will Hunting. I don't really need to because I think I've seen it so many times it's seared into my memory. But if you're like longing for that kind of relationship that Will Hunting has with his therapist in the movie played by Robin Williams. I believe his named Sean in the movie. I forgot his surname but uh, you know better help might be able to help they got licensed professional counselors who are ready to talk to you about stress anxiety isolation depression. You name it to get started you simply fill out a questionnaire to help assess your needs and then It matched with a counselor in less than 24 hours after that. You can easily schedule secure video or phone sessions with your therapist plus exchange unlimited messages. I don't think that was a thing in Good Will Hunting better help is a truly affordable option and our listeners get 10% off your first month with the discount code explained.

3 (11m 30s):
So why not get started today go to better help.com explain that's better heelp.com / explained talk to a therapist online and get yourself some help. Has anyone ever left a son basket at your door? If not, you can get yourself a son basket. Don't worry son basket hooks you up with healthy delicious meals every single week. They deliver a box loaded with pre-portioned Organic ingredients. It drops right at your door. So you can throw the meals together whenever you're hungry they're easy to prepare and you can go from unboxing to eating in as little as 15 minutes set the timer y'all.

3 (12m 15s):
Just listen to some of these meals created by their award-winning Chef poison strip steak lettuce cups with pickled daikon and carrots roasted salmon with miso glazed eggplant black bean tostadas Diablo with cabbage slaw and guac. That's like a week of killer Instagram posts right there. I don't know. I don't put my food on Instagram. Maybe you do right now son basket is offering $35 off your order. When you go to Sun basket.com explained and enter the promo code explained that check out that his son basket just like those two words, but together.com / explained and enter the promo code explained at checkout for $35 off your

4 (12m 52s):
order.

3 (13m 1s):
As it's clear that the president hasn't shown the kind of leadership that the country could have benefited from in this crisis, but I wonder how culpable congress's here. I mean Democrats approved of the stimulus and and now we see stimulus money going to places like the LA Lakers and Shake Shack and all these minority owned small businesses saying, hey, we didn't get anything. We were really hoping for and you guys Stress that you know you provide us how culpable is everyone else in this mess the Democrats bear a lot of

1 (13m 33s):
responsibility for the way the stimulus itself is working. They're part of the group that passes at now. I should say for them. They are fighting with Mitch McConnell over it. They would like it to be bigger. They would like it to work differently but Democrats do not control the Senate and they do not control the White House. So what they can do is limited. I am not somebody who thinks it is a bad thing that money is going to big businesses. Has Shake Shack needs money? Because I don't want people to be laid off from Shake Shack. I don't know too much about the position of the Lakers, but they employ a lot of people on the part of the the LA economy. And yeah, the Lakers are going to be in terrible shape given that live games are just like I mean something we know about where the economy is going. Is it live events are the most screwed of a screwed accommodate, right?

1 (14m 16s):
So I'm not against the potential of those companies getting money. The issue is is it it can't be either or the money is in sufficiently large. and in particular the money that is going to large businesses because of the way it works where there's a lending structure that happens to the Federal Reserve that money is going out the door much more smoothly than the money going out to small businesses, which is going in a complicated way through banks and the small business administration or and is also really important the money going to individuals because a lot of state unemployment insurance systems are terrible and not just terrible in the sense that they're badly constructed but in cases like Florida, they're actually acted so they are hard to use as a point of conservative ideology.

1 (14m 60s):
They've been built so it is difficult for people to get access to them. In addition to that. I think Democrats have made some tactical errors in not insisting and I do think they should have insisted and should in the future that many of these things have automatic triggers in them. So the money should expand depending on what is happening in the economy. The unemployment insurance should renew so long as unemployment is above let's call it five or six percent and The fact that they're not doing this, I mean they have wanted to and Republicans have not but they actually have to say Republicans do ultimately bear responsibility as the governing party for what's going to happen Democrats do have some leverage here. And so to the extent that what they're doing is going to help the economy recover.

1 (15m 41s):
They should at least use it sometime. Yeah, and the fact that they are letting these things go forward without automatic stabilizers. That is not good governance. So I have my criticisms of the Democrats, but they are fighting an uphill battle against Artie that for whatever reason both would be the one to benefit from a competently administered stimulus but is currently fighting it.

3 (16m 5s):
It feels like the economic pain is going to last for large sectors of the economy for large sectors of the country and now Republicans Party Line seems to be we got to Tamp down the spending and Democrats clearly want to do more. How are these two arguments going to meet somewhere?

1 (16m 23s):
I don't know. Is he honest truth? I am very confused. By the way, Republican see their own political incentives here. I recognize that some of it is a theological but if unemployment is 17 percent on Election Day, Donald Trump is going to get destroyed in the election and Mitch McConnell is going to lose the gavel. And they know that I mean Donald Trump understands that the economy is important the primary thing he seems to be watching and caring about is a stock market. Now the stock market is doing a little bit better than other parts of the economy because the federal reserve's dumping liquidity into the things that it cares about. So Trump's like a little distant from I think the part of the economy the matters most is re-election, which is not the stock market to be clear but nevertheless I mean Trump understands that the economy matters Mitch McConnell understands that the economy matters so why they are not Not just begging for more.

3 (17m 21s):
That's an unusual

1 (17m 22s):
abdication of political self-interest. Now, maybe you want to say it's a principled statement on behalf of conservative ideology. And if so, I guess bully for them. Although it's going to be terrible for many people in the country, but this is getting worse not

4 (17m 36s):
better.

1 (17m 43s):
The economic pain is metastasizing day by day where we are going to be in three months is going to be really bad. I think it's going to be in many ways worse than people are currently anticipating because right now there's a lot of stopgap measures both in the economy. But also things feel temporary once businesses begin planning forward. Once they see we're not going to be in a v-shaped recovery because we're not as far as the forecast was I talk to you can tell once they see what I can make a v-shaped recovery. They're going to be Making plans for the future that are much Grimmer. And is that demand during the out of the economy that becomes for looking also by the way for the stock market? And so there's a lot of pain coming and it's not hard to see it and it's not impossible to solve it.

1 (18m 33s):
By the way, there are Republicans with ideas for this right Josh. Holly said Republican in the Senate who has an idea much like the co-chair of the house Progressive caucus in the house to do high-level subsidization of paychecks directly. So you don't have people being turned loose from the economy in the middle of this it would

3 (18m 51s):
help businesses rehire every worker who has been laid off because of the coronavirus this I think has got it's one of the most important things the United States Senate and Congress can

1 (19m 1s):
do right now is jobs

3 (19m 3s):
Jobs jobs, let's secure them. Let's get them

1 (19m 6s):
back. He subsidizes it up to 80% but you could bargain that Mitt Romney has a plan that I think is interesting to create tax credits. It would lead to Big raises for essential workers. I think that's a good

3 (19m 18s):
idea and the Utah Republican calls it quote Patriot pay it would be a bonus of $12 per hour in May June and July for a total of one thousand nine hundred and twenty dollars per month eligible. Workers would include Healthcare professionals grocery store workers and employees at food processing

1 (19m 39s):
plants, but why Republican leadership and the Republican president increasingly seem to put themselves in the position of obstructing the economic recovery, they need for political survival. I don't really understand it.

3 (19m 55s):
I mean that divided feels like it's mirrored. In the country, I mean a crisis like this historically might have brought the entire country together, perhaps it wasn't surprising to you that under a present like Donald Trump it didn't but I wonder where were you at all surprised to see something like wearing masks or staying six feet apart or staying home and away from friends and families so that we can prevent the spread of this disease become. Sort of partisan and political.

1 (20m 32s):
Yes, and no I read a book about polarization. Right and one of the ideas of that book is it virtually anything can get polarized including things that start out as non-political to the extent? It is surprising it. Is it even something as disruptive and tremendous and world-shaking as coronavirus can end up in the same path as everything else. Right that like nothing is bigger than polarization on the other hand the way we're polarizing around these two choices of Reckless reopening and what can sound to people like a prescription for an endless economically ruinous lockdown.

1 (21m 13s):
I'm not surprised that if those are the two choices given that they're both terrible that people are polarizing around them. And so what we needed which is what you've seen in other countries like Germany and South Korea and Taiwan,

3 (21m 28s):
Is a path

1 (21m 28s):
back to something like normalcy not full normalcy that's going to be hard but a lot more you can do a lot more. I mean Taiwan is has something like a dozen new cases of covid in all am a what has happened. Is it in the absence of a plan people can agree on they have polarized around the to unsustainable options. They can't agree on and there can't be agreement on because neither is going to work and so to me. Yeah, like there's a this failure of leadership here. I don't think polarization is so powerful that it is impossible to imagine the country more or less on the same page about this.

1 (22m 14s):
I think you see it in other polarized countries and I think you see it in States. And by the way, the Republican party is not all against masks. It is not the case of every Republican Governor is acting as Donald Trump is acting most of them are not Governor. Mike dewine in Ohio is doing a good job on coronavirus Larry Hogan Baker lots of them and their approval. By the way show this there is nothing about conservatism before the Republican party that would force you into this position. It is Trump and the fact that so long as he is a leader the Republican Party a lot of Republicans are going to want to follow him and I'm sorry like I wish this didn't sound partisan. Like I have family members who are immunocompromised.

1 (22m 54s):
I have family members who are in their 70s with comorbidities and make them vulnerable to coronavirus. I want this to be done. Well, I want the federal government to to do its damn job. That would be good politics, but it would just be good. We need the government to work no matter who's running

4 (23m 10s):
it.