0 (1s):
I am feeling that I have to be here. War with Russia is my war also.

2 (12s):
It's been almost two years since Russia escalated its war with Ukraine. And two years in Ukraine is desperate for military aid from the United States.

3 (22s):
Your money is not charity. It's an investment in the global security and democracy that we handle in the most responsible way.

2 (33s):
And it's not just Zelensky begging for money, it's Biden.

4 (37s):
Putin is banking on the United States failing to deliver for Ukraine. We must, we must, we must prove him wrong.

2 (46s):
But there are no signs that Congress is gonna budge. And at present, they're not gonna budge because of the US Mexico border. Believe it or not, it's a big old mess and we're gonna try and make sense of it on today explained.

TIAA (1m 0s):
TIAA is on a mission. Why? Because 54% of black Americans don't have enough savings to retire. So in collaboration with big name artists like Wyclef Jean, TIAA released paper, Wright new music, inspiring a new financial future with 100% of streaming sales, going to a nonprofit that teaches students how to invest stream paper right now and help close the gap

Unexplainable podcast (1m 28s):
This week on unexplainable Can scientists save the rainforest by listening to it? Here we go. Well, this is not gonna work. It's in the day. Got it, got it, got it. All the birds. Let me see if there's anything from the night That's a poison frog. Wait, Wait, wait. Where The, I don't. Okay. That's How to make a stethoscope for the rainforest. That's un unexplainable this week.

6 (2m 1s):
Follow for new episodes every Wednesday.

7 (2m 7s):
This is today explained.

0 (2m 10s):
I was ready to go to the, to the Army 'cause I have to do it. And

2 (2m 15s):
We got in touch with a Ukrainian soldier on the eastern front of this war this week. He wanted to remain anonymous to protect his safety if he were to get captured. But we verified his identity

0 (2m 26s):
Every day. We love on each other different jokes. you know, it's also because without jokes, it's so, it's not so good without jokes. It's so like gray day, dark day, you know, and a lot of brother in a, our brother in arms, we were killed also, and civilian peoples were killed. But we need to support each other. And jokes. It's good way, good way. Maybe coffee, maybe some sandwiches, maybe something sweets.

0 (3m 6s):
Also support our blood and our soul. And we have to have this optimism, I mean, inside of us to, to do, to do our tasks. And I try, I talk to myself that, okay, I have to be in good condition and my brain have to be cold, and my heart have to be warm. Hot, hot hearts. you know, it's so difficult because now we don't have enough, enough weapons, enough needed things, you know, to save our city, to save our people like air defense, you know, like armed machines also, like artillery things and others.

0 (4m 16s):
So we have, we have optimism inside of us, you know, but we need more, more, more military things to cope with this Russian army.

2 (4m 34s):
We wanted to hear what this war looks like as it approaches its two year anniversary. So we got in touch with Luke Harding at The Guardian, who spends a lot of time on the ground in Ukraine.

9 (4m 45s):
The, the situation on the ground is the Russians are slowly but surely moving forward. Now, Last year 2023, there were high hopes that the Ukrainians might be able to take back more territory, particularly in the South with the summer Counteroffensive. Ukraine

10 (5m 2s):
Is finally on the march, spring has become summer and defensive operations switched to offensive of one's.

0 (5m 10s):
Slow, slow, slow.

9 (5m 12s):
I was there when it started. And, and basically they ran into massive entrenched Russian fortifications, minefields, air defense and so on. And, and that didn't work. And really, I, I would say since kind of late aut and winter, the, the Russians have been pushing, pushing, pushing with, with a series of assaults across the front line. Which, which by the way is, is more than 600 miles long, but particularly in the East.

11 (5m 39s):
So the whole idea is an attempt to cut off the land bridge between Russian held territory and the Russian held in Peninsula.

9 (5m 48s):
And what we're seeing is massive attacks involving infantry tanks, armored vehicles, aviation, and with tens of thousands of Russian soldiers being killed. I mean, I was on the front line recently near a, near a town called Abdur, which the Russians have been trying to seize since last October. And I talked to one Ukrainian soldier who said they come, we kill them. Then more of them come Close up. You see trenches, there are booms from outgoing artillery, whistles from, from incoming projectiles. There is mud rats now frost. It's very cold in Ukraine with, with glossy looking trees and treacherous conditions everywhere.

9 (6m 32s):
And these kind of bear frozen fields, but with the addition of drones. So it's this mashup between first world war, early 20th century, and 21st War, where both sides have got complete reconnaissance of the battlefield. And it, it's impossible to do anything but by stealth or by surprise. And you, you would've thought that these sort of tactics where, where hundreds of Russian soldiers die every day, that they would, they would change up. But, but they're not. And the, the, the sort of Putin strategy is to overwhelm Ukraine, to smother Ukraine, to use Russia's superior volumes of everything, whether it, whether it's artillery or ballistic missiles or war planes, and to grind out some kind of victory.

2 (7m 17s):
It sounds like this Counteroffensive has failed. Yeah.

9 (7m 20s):
Yeah. I I mean, that's right. I mean, these things are always Sean, they're always sort of perspectival. So if, if we were sitting here, let's say two years ago, early 2022 before the full scale of Asian, and I said, well, at that point, the, the Pentagon and the US basically assumed that the Russians would over roll Ukraine top all the government of Vladimir Zelensky set up a puppet administration in Kyiv, unfold Ukraine back into Russia. And that that didn't happen. I, I mean that the Russians tried to take Kyiv, but they, they, they, they failed. And, and actually Ukraine's taken back quite a lot of territory. But the problem now is, is that their capacity to take more depends on the supply of, of weapons from the west and from the United States in particular.

9 (8m 2s):
And what, what we know perfectly well is, is that this is being held up by Congress. It's become the subject of, of a bitter, partisan debate. And this has a direct effect on the battlefield. you know, I, I talked to Ukrainian servicemen who say that they noticed a dip in the amount of munitions they were getting in about late summer of Last year. And they're now just completely outgunned. And they say the problem isn't infantry. They, they, they don't mind that the Russians have got more people. It's a country of 140 million. What the problem is, it was Stalin who called artillery the God of war. And there's more God on the Russian side than on the Ukrainian side.

2 (8m 34s):
Artillery is the God of war. What about manpower? Because Russia's got an advantage there too, right?

9 (8m 41s):
There's the numerical advantage, of course, they, they've got more people. They've got about 300,000 plus soldiers in the Ukrainian Theater, which is a huge army. Look, this is the biggest war in, in Europe, my continent since 1945. And actually, it, it quite looks like the second World War for much of the time. The, these tank assaults we keep on seeing of listened of Stalingrad or, or, or the Soviet push for, for Berlin so that they've got more. But it's not just that. It's also the fact that the Russians are prepared to squander lives in the way that the Ukrainians are not. And they're commanders, Ukrainian commanders, they don't send them in on, on impossible missions. Whereas Russian officers will send 15 guys to their certain deaths across an icy field just to try and expose the Ukrainian firing position, knowing that they won't come back, knowing that they won't break through just fodder.

9 (9m 33s):
And there's a word in Russian, they call, they call them meat salts. Meat salts. And, and we, we've seen meat salts throughout, and they continue, they continue. It's as if there is no level of pain and loss, which is too high for the Russian state

0 (9m 46s):
Mi war, you know, when they push a lot of people to, to kill that, we kill them. But it's their tactic is their strategy. And sometimes it works for Russian army, you know.

2 (10m 5s):
How does the Ukrainian public feel about this conflict at this point?

9 (10m 9s):
I, I mean, e everybody's exhausted. I mean, I I, I'm in Kiev every month for, you know, I, I'll do a long stint there then, then, you know, take a break and then, then go back again. And Last year, you know, my, my Ukrainian friends, they all knew someone who was fighting. Now they all know someone who's been killed. I was sitting in a restaurant in December and got chatting to a, to a guy, and he said, 10 of my friends have been killed. 10 of my friends have been killed. And, and, and that's the problem. I mean, I mean, Kiev superficially looks like any successful European city. I mean, it's Sean, it's rather beautiful. There are Arctic Dakota buildings, there are golden couplers. There are cobbles streets that twist up and down. There's great coffee by, by the way.

9 (10m 50s):
And, and good pizza. you know, it's not some dreary Soviet backwater. I mean, it's a lively European city. It's a Berlin or a Prague. But under the surface, everybody is hurting because a brother or a husband, or a cousin or a guy you played football with, you know, have, have been killed. And meanwhile, Kiev is being, is being hit by, it's being bombarded. There's a massive Russian aerosol. Most nights, we, we just saw one in the last 24 hours with six cities being hit by ballistic missiles, hypersonic missiles by, by everything missiles. Part of the problem is people are just very tired. I, I mean, I've, I've, I've been there. When this happens, your phone vibrates.

9 (11m 30s):
You get an air alarm signal and, and then nothing happens for a bit. And then, then you hear Ukrainian air defense engaging. There are flashes in the sky, booms, it, it's all very apocalyptic. And then when finally you get the all clear at about 4, 4 30 in the morning, you're so wired, you're, you're, you're buzzing. You can't sleep. Be because how, how can you sleep after that? Your, your body just won't switch off. And, and then, and then repeat, repeat, repeat. But there, there is a degree of bewilderment along the lines of what, what happened to the party of Ronald Reagan. Right? Right. The party that in the 1980s faced down the mighty Soviet empire. And basically you could argue, won the Cold War.

13 (12m 7s):
So I urge you to be aware, the temptation of pride, the temptation of blithely, declaring yourselves above it all, and label both sides equally at fault. To ignore the facts of history and the aggressive impulses of an evil empire to simply call the arms race a giant misunderstanding, and thereby remove yourself from the struggle between right and wrong and good and evil

9 (12m 31s):
Is now seems to think that Putin is a good guy when it's clear to everybody, pretty much ev everyone of sane mind that, that he is a murderous psychopath whose armies, plunder, rape, destroy, kill, enslave, abduct children actually, and take them back to Russia to be made into good Russians. The, the Kremlin wants to basically exhaust the Ukrainian civilian population to kill them where it can, to destroy energy infrastructure, to make people freeze and a misrate them. And to basically break Ukrainian will. And Putin thinks he's got time on his side, and meanwhile, he's looking eagerly to, to the us to possible political developments there, which he thinks could well turn out to be favorable to him.

2 (13m 27s):
Luke Harding, he's the guardian senior international correspondent and the author of Invasion, the Inside Story of Russia's Bloody War and Ukraine's Fight for Survival when we're back on today, explained how and why Congress might be ghosting Ukraine right now.

Shopify (14m 2s):
So fourth show today comes from Shopify. These days you can buy basically everything online, but that convenience doesn't happen in a vacuum. It requires an insane amount of processes and logistical brilliance to get that mattress covered. You ordered, both paid for, and shipped to your door after you click buy. Shopify is one of the platforms making it easier for sellers to well sell things. Shopify is a global commerce platform that makes it possible for business owners to process payments, track their source performance, and grow their operation No matter what stage of the journey their business is in. The platform is engineered to drive growth for mom and pop shops and retail giants alike. Shopify's ensemble of useful tools makes it a snap to sell in person and online seamlessly. You can sign up for a $1 per month trial period at shopify.com/explained. You can go to shopify.com/explained to grow your business no matter what stage you're in. shopify.com/explained

Quince (15m 7s):
Support for today explained comes from Quince purveyor of high quality essentials at affordable prices, washable silk going out tops and dresses, organic cotton sweaters, 14 karat gold jewelry. I'm told according to Quince, these items and more are priced 50 to 80% less than similar brands. Sarah Frank, my colleague who works on the business side of things, tried Quince out and here's what she thinks. I had the opportunity to test out a few Quince products and I was really drawn to the classic styles and fabrics. I had heard great things about their cashmere products from my colleagues, so I immediately went there first and was so impressed with the huge selection of sweaters, cardigans, and pants. For 50 to a hundred dollars, You can go to Quince dot com slash explained for free shipping on your order and 365 day returns. That's Q-U-I-N-C e.com/explained to get free shipping and 365 day returns. Quince dot com slash explained

CookUnity (16m 10s):
Support for the show comes from Cook Unity. What is that? You might ask if you're interested in checking out new restaurants, but having trouble finding the time and energy to find somewhere new. Ian might be interested in Cook Unity. Cook Unity says they're the first quote chef to you. Service delivering locally sourced meals from award-winning chefs to your door. Unlike other meal services, cook Unity is a chef collective that aims to bring creative delicious meals to you every week. I've never had a Creative Delicious meal, but our colleague, Sarah Frank has Cook Unity, has a huge selection of meals across various diets. I've been trying out the Mediterranean and Pescatarian meals, but also they have vegan and keto and low carb Experience. Chef quality meals every week delivered right to your door. You can go to cook unity.com/explained or enter code explained before. Check out for 50% off your first week. That's 50% off your first week by using the code Explained or going to cook unity.com/explained.

1 (17m 10s):
Ukraine Ukraine, explain it's Ukraine Explained.

15 (17m 16s):
My name is Andrew Desario. I'm a senior congressional reporter for Punch Bowl News.

2 (17m 21s):
And you know a little bit about this funding battle for the Ukraine War in Congress

15 (17m 26s):
A little bit. Yeah, I've, it's been my whole life for the past few months.

2 (17m 31s):
Will Ukraine get the money? And if not, why not? Well,

15 (17m 34s):
Look, it's an open question at this point. Congress has tried many times over the last, I don't know, 12 months or so, to get more money to Ukraine more funding authorities for the president to transfer weapons from US stockpiles. And at least three times they have failed to do so. And what's basically happened is each time they have been thwarted by the House Republicans, but right now the big sort of hangup is that Republicans are demanding that any future aid for Ukraine be attached to legislation that imposes policy changes for the US Mexico border. Which members of both parties agree is a problem that should be addressed for sure.

15 (18m 16s):
Where Democrats differ from Republicans on this is they don't believe that it should be tied to what is viewed as emergency spending for Ukraine, for Israel, and for Taiwan. Okay.

2 (18m 26s):
A lot to process there. You got Ukraine funding, you've got border funding, you've got Taiwan, you've got Israel. Let's just focus on how it is that funding for the war in Ukraine got tied to the southern border. Can you help us wrap our heads around that?

15 (18m 42s):
Yeah, so you know, a lot of progressives are frustrated with the White House right now because back in August they actually included additional funding resources to help manage the crisis at the border as part of their request for money for Ukraine Israel and the Indo-Pacific. And the thinking at the time was that this would be a way to sort of sweeten the deal for Republicans. It ended up backfiring and doing the exact opposite. Republicans saw that the White House asked for it and said, well, you're asking for it, so let's negotiate. Hmm. And what they did was they made a series of demands surrounding border security policy changes, restrictions on the ability to seek asylum restrictions on the ability of the administration to parole migrants who are processed into the United States from the southern border.

16 (19m 29s):
We delivered a common sense legislation that will secure our border. But it's been sitting on Chuck Schumer's desk for seven months. House resolution two was our, our bill and the time to act on it is yesterday.

15 (19m 42s):
And that is the standoff we're currently in right now because this is really the third rail of American politics. And the thinking is, if you're tying Ukraine aid to one of the most contentious, difficult issues Congress has ever had to address, then that doesn't farewell for Ukraine aid. And that has unfortunately borne out to be true,

2 (20m 2s):
Which is to say that the Biden administration, whom we spoke with when they made this decision miscalculated by tying border funding to the war in Ukraine, that

15 (20m 14s):
Is what a lot of progressives think. They think it gave Republicans an opening to demand these border policy changes as part of this supplemental funding request because, well, in their view, the White House put it on the table. So we're gonna negotiate around that. Right? So, you know, you have Democrats and the White House kind of throwing shade at Republicans for tying these two issues together.

4 (20m 36s):
Extreme Republicans are playing chicken with our national security holding Ukraine's funding hostages, their extreme partisan border

15 (20m 44s):
Policies. But then Republicans are coming back at them and saying, whoa, whoa, whoa, we didn't tie them together. You tied them together. And they're technically correct when they say that,

2 (20m 52s):
Putting all the politics aside and, and you know, the gamesmanship, what do Republicans actually think about this war in Ukraine? Are there Republicans who wouldn't support it even if it hadn't been tied to border funding?

15 (21m 8s):
That's exactly the case. So you have Republicans like Mitch McConnell, who are the more traditional neo-conservative hawkish Republicans who are gonna support Ukraine no matter what. They're gonna be tied to the hip with Democrats, with President Biden on that issue as they have been

17 (21m 23s):
Continue. Our support for Ukraine is morally right. But it's not only that, it's also a direct investment in cold, hard American interest.

15 (21m 34s):
And then you have a very significant contingent, especially in the house and a growing group at that, that will not support Ukraine aid no matter what it's tied to. I mean, you could tie, you know, every border restriction under the sun that Stephen Miller and Donald Trump would love to have as part of this to Ukraine Aid, and they still would not vote for it because of the Ukraine Aid portion.

18 (21m 56s):
They want to add a $100 billion supplemental of which 60 billion will go to Ukraine. So, so that is the

2 (22m 4s):
Way, why is it that some Republicans are so staunchly against funding this war?

15 (22m 10s):
Well, that's a very complicated question. I would say that the influence of Donald Trump is definitely the biggest thing here. Donald Trump, his whole foreign policy ethos was America first. This idea that we shouldn't be involved in foreign wars that don't have a direct bearing on the lives of Americans. It's more sort of non-interventionist, isolationist, if you wanna call it. And the issue of Ukraine has become so politically charged in the United States ever since Donald Trump was impeached the first time for his phone call with Ukrainian President Zelensky, in which he threatened to basically cut off USAID to Ukraine unless they started an investigation into Joe Biden and his son Hunter.

19 (22m 52s):
The White House has just released a Transcript of President Trump's July 25th phone call with Ukraine's president. So

20 (22m 59s):
After that exchange about us helped to Ukraine Trump then says, I would like you to do us a favor,

21 (23m 5s):
A whistleblower report related to that phone call Led House speaker Nancy Pelosi, to open a formal impeachment inquiry.

15 (23m 13s):
And at the time, that got a lot of Republicans angry at the idea that, oh, Donald Trump is being targeted for this stuff. Right? And it made Ukraine a political issue and an issue that their, the Republican base in particular latched onto and said, Hey, well look at all this corruption in Ukraine Donald Trump was right to do this. And so when this issue comes up where they're, you know, basically under full scale assault by the Russian army, you have Republicans who are thinking back to that episode and saying, huh, is it really worth us giving, you know, billions of dollars and a lot of our weapons to Ukraine to help them fight the Russians

18 (23m 49s):
Infrastructure minister arrested for stealing $400,000. Deputy head of Zelensky office can't explain where the sports cars came from, so he had to resign

15 (23m 58s):
Deputy. But I think the main sort of reason why this has become so difficult for the Republican party is, is politics. And you know, I talked to a Republican senator a few weeks ago who is in the McConnell crowd, a very supportive of Ukraine. And I asked him, I said, what do you think it is that, you know, ever since the war started, there's been this steep decline of support for Ukraine among members of your party. And this senator said to me, you know, I have tried to get an intellectually honest answer out of the anti Ukraine crowd as to why they don't support sending more money to Ukraine. I have not found one apart from domestic politics. Hmm. And that is really what it boils down to, is that Ukraine has become almost a domestic political issue in the United States, especially for people who are aligned with Donald Trump and people who have been the staunchest apologists for him really ever since his, he, he first came into office,

2 (24m 53s):
Which is to say in, what is it, 10 months, 11 months when there is an election, if Joe Biden loses to the former president, that might be the end of Ukraine funding

15 (25m 8s):
Forever. Yeah. I, I, I think it's fair to say that, and a lot of Democrats at the last midterm elections were warning that if Republicans took the house, which they did, that could be the end of Ukraine funding forever. And of course, Congress has not passed new Ukraine funding ever since the lame duck period right after that election. Even when it's been led by someone like Mitch McConnell, it's been a failure of an effort. You know, frankly, one of the arguments that Mitch McConnell makes, which I think is one of the strongest arguments in favor of Ukraine aid, is that America is not sending any troops. We're not spilling any blood to help the Ukrainians. And we are helping them degrade the Russian army.

15 (25m 49s):
I mean, that is on its own, a sig a, a serious investment, a worthwhile investment in our national security. So, you know, to people like Mitch McConnell, this is a no-brainer of an issue. But in the Republican party today with Donald Trump's influence the way it is, that is no longer the case.

2 (26m 24s):
Andrew Desario reports on Congress for Punch Bowl, find his work at Punch Bowl News. Our program today was produced by Victoria Chamberlin and Isabel Angell. We were edited by Amina Aldi fact checked by Laura Bullard and mixed by Patrick Boyd. It's today explained.

0 (26m 51s):
I don't know what will I do when this is over? I, I, I really, I really hope that I can, I can continue my own business. Yeah. I hope, I really hope that I alive, I I will be alive. I really hope. And I talk to God, talk to God to support me in different way. And I really want to alive, to be alive.